But it is one thing to decide to go back, and another to do it. At the little station I studied
time-tables, and I could not get to England again without a delay of half a day. Somewhere
I must wait. I did not want to wait where there was any concourse of people. I decided to stay
in the inn by the station for the intervening six hours, and get some sleep before I started
upon my return, but when I saw the bedroom I changed my plan and went down out of the village
by a steep road towards the shore. I wandered down through the rain and spindrift to the very
edge of the sea, and there found a corner among the rocks a little sheltered from the wind,
and sat, inert and wretched; my lips salt, my hair stiff with salt, and my body wet and cold;
a miserable defeated man. For I had now an irrational and entirely overwhelming conviction
of defeat. I saw as if I ought always to have seen that I had been pursuing a phantom of hopeless
happiness, that my dream of ever possessing Mary again was fantastic and foolish, and that
I had expended all my strength in vain. Over me triumphed a law and tradition more towering
than those cliffs and stronger than those waves. I was overwhelmed by a sense of human weakness,
of the infinite feebleness of the individual man against wind and wave and the stress of tradition
and the ancient usages of mankind. "We must submit," I whispered, crouching close, "we must
submit." ...

Far as the eye could reach the waves followed one another in long unhurrying lines, an inexhaustible
succession, rolling, hissing, breaking, and tossing white manes of foam, to gather at last
for a crowning effort and break thunderously, squirting foam two hundred feet up the streaming
faces of the cliffs. The wind tore and tugged at me, and wind and water made together a clamor
as though all the evil voices in the world, all the violent passions and all the hasty judgments
were seeking a hearing above the more elemental uproar....

§ 14

And while I was in this phase of fatigue and despair in Mayo, the scene was laid and all the
other actors were waiting for the last act of my defeat in London. I came back to find two
letters from Mary and a little accumulation of telegrams and notes, one written in my flat,
from Tarvrille.

Mary's letters were neither of them very long, and full of a new-born despair. She had not
realized how great were the forces against her and against us both. She let fall a phrase that
suggested she was ill. She had given in, she said, to save herself and myself and others from
the shame and ruin of a divorce, and I must give in too. We had to agree not to meet or communicate
for three years, and I was to go out of England. She prayed me to accept this. She knew, she
said, she seemed to desert me, but I did not know everything,--I did not know everything,--I
must agree; she could not come with me; it was impossible. Now certainly it was impossible.
She had been weak, but I did not know all. If I knew all I should be the readier to understand
and forgive her, but it was part of the conditions that I could not know all. Justin had been
generous, in his way.... Justin had everything in his hands, the whole world was behind him
against us, and I must give in. Those letters had a quality I had never before met in her,
they were broken-spirited. I could not understand them fully, and they left me perplexed, with
a strong desire to see her, to question her, to learn more fully what this change in her might
mean.

Tarvrille's notes recorded his repeated attempts to see me, I felt that he alone was capable
of clearing up things for me, and I went out again at once and telegraphed to him for an appointment.

He wired to me from that same house in Mayfair in which I had first met Mary after my return.
He asked me to come to him in the afternoon, and thither I went through a November fog, and
found him in the drawing-room that had the plate glass above the fireplace. But now he was
vacating the house, and everything was already covered up, the pictures and their frames were
under holland, the fine furniture all in covers of faded stuff, the chandeliers and statues
wrapped up, the carpets rolled out of the way. Even the window-curtains were tucked into wrappers,
and the blinds, except one he had raised, drawn down. He greeted me and apologized for the
cold inhospitality of the house. "It was convenient here," he said. "I came here to clear out
my papers and boxes. And there's no chance of interruptions."

He went and stood before the empty fireplace, and plunged into the middle of the matter.

"You know, my dear Stratton, in this confounded business my heart's with you. It has been all
along. If I could have seen a clear chance before you--for you and Mary to get away--and make
any kind of life of it--though she's my cousin--I'd have helped you. Indeed I would. But there's
no sort of chance--not the ghost of a chance...."

He began to explain very fully, quite incontrovertibly, that entire absence of any chance for
Mary and myself together. He argued to the converted. "You know as well as I do what that romantic
flight abroad, that Ouidaesque casa in some secluded valley, comes to in reality. All round
Florence there's no end of such scandalous people, I've been among them, the nine circles of
the repenting scandalous, all cutting one another."

"I agree," I said. "And yet----"

"What?"

"We could have come back."

Tarvrille paused, and then leant forward. "No."

"But people have done so. It would have been a clean sort of divorce."

"You don't understand Justin. Justin would ruin you. If you were to take Mary away.... He's
a queer little man. Everything is in his hands. Everything always is in the husband's hands
in these affairs. If he chooses. And keeps himself in the right. For an injured husband the
law sanctifies revenge....

"And you see, you've got to take Justin's terms. He's changed. He didn't at first fully realize.
He feels--cheated. We've had to persuade him. There's a case for Justin, you know. He's had
to stand--a lot. I don't wonder at his going stiff at last. No doubt it's hard for you to see
that. But you have to see it. You've got to go away as he requires--three years out of England,
you've got to promise not to correspond, not to meet afterwards----"

"It's so extravagant a separation."

"The alternative is--not for you to have Mary, but for you two to be flung into the ditch together--that's
what it comes to, Stratton. Justin's got his case. He's set like--steel. You're up against
the law, up against social tradition, up against money--any one of those a man may fight, but
not all three. And she's ill, Stratton. You owe her consideration. You of all people. That's
no got-up story; she's truly ill and broken. She can no longer fly with you and fight with
you, travel in uncomfortable trains, stay in horrible little inns. You don't understand. The
edge is off her pluck, Stratton."

"What do you mean?" I asked, and questioned his face.

"Just exactly what I say."

A gleam of understanding came to me....

"Why can't I see her?" I broke in, with my voice full of misery and anger. "Why can't I see
her? As if seeing her once more could matter so very greatly now!"

He appeared to weigh something in his mind. "You can't," he said.

"How do I know that she's not being told some story of my abandonment of her? How do I know
she isn't being led to believe I no longer want her to come to me?"

"She isn't," said Tarvrille, still with that arrested judicial note in his voice. "You had
her letters?" he said.

"Two."

"Yes. Didn't they speak?"

"I want to see her. Damn it, Tarvrille!" I cried with sudden tears in my smarting eyes. "Let
her send me away. This isn't---- Not treating us like human beings."

"Women," said Tarvrille and looked at his boot toes, "are different from men. You see, Stratton----"

He paused. "You always strike me, Stratton, as not realizing that women are weak things. We've
got to take care of them. You don't seem to feel that as I do. Their moods--fluctuate--more
than ours do. If you hold 'em to what they say in the same way you hold a man--it isn't fair...."

He halted as though he awaited my assent to that proposition.

"If you were to meet Mary now, you see, and if you were to say to her, come--come and we'll
jump down Etna together, and you said it in the proper voice and with the proper force, she'd
do it, Stratton. You know that. Any man knows a thing like that. And she wouldn't want to do
it...."

"You mean that's why I can't see her."

"That's why you can't see her."

"Because we'd become--dramatic."

"Because you'd become--romantic and uncivilized."

"Well," I said sullenly, realizing the bargain we were making, "I won't."

"You won't make any appeal?"

"No."

He made no answer, and I looked up to discover him glancing over his shoulder through the great
glass window into the other room. I stood up very quickly, and there in the further apartment
were Guy and Mary, standing side by side. Our eyes met, and she came forward towards the window
impulsively, and paused, with that unpitying pane between us....

Then Guy was opening the door for her and she stood in the doorway. She was in dark furs wrapped
about her, but in the instant I could see how ill she was and how broken. She came a step or
so towards me and then stopped short, and so we stood, shyly and awkwardly under Guy and Tarvrille's
eyes, two yards apart. "You see," she said, and stopped lamely.

"You and I," I said, "have to part, Mary. We---- We are beaten. Is that so?"

"Stephen, there is nothing for us to do. We've offended. We broke the rules. We have to pay."

"By parting?"

"What else is there to do?"

"No," I said. "There's nothing else." ...

"I tried," she said, "that you shouldn't be sent from England."

"That's a detail," I answered.

"But your politics--your work?"

"That does not matter. The great thing is that you are ill and unhappy--that I can't help you.
I can't do anything.... I'd go anywhere ... to save you.... All I can do, I suppose, is to
part like this and go."

"I shan't be--altogether unhappy. And I shall think of you----"

She paused, and we stood facing one another, tongue-tied. There was only one word more to say,
and neither of us would say it for a moment.

"Good-bye," she whispered at last, and then, "Don't think I deserted you, Stephen my dear.
Don't think ill of me. I couldn't come--I couldn't come to you," and suddenly her face changed
slowly and she began to weep, my fearless playmate whom I had never seen weeping before; she
began to weep as an unhappy child might weep.

"Oh my Mary!" I cried, weeping also, and held out my arms, and we clung together and kissed
with tear-wet faces.

"No," cried Guy belatedly, "we promised Justin!"

But Tarvrille restrained his forbidding arm, and then after a second's interval put a hand
on my shoulder. "Come," he said....

And so it was Mary and I parted from one another.

CHAPTER THE SEVENTH

BEGINNING AGAIN

§ 1

In operas and romances one goes from such a parting in a splendid dignity of gloom. But I am
no hero, and I went down the big staircase of Tarvrille's house the empty shuck of an abandoned
desire. I was acutely ashamed of my recent tears. In the centre of the hall was a marble figure
swathed about with yellow muslin. "On account of the flies," I said, breaking our silence.

My words were far too unexpected for Tarvrille to understand. "The flies," I repeated with
an air of explanation.

"You're sure she'll be all right?" I said abruptly.

"You've done the best thing you can for her."

"I suppose I have. I have to go." And then I saw ahead of me a world full of the tiresome need
of decisions and arrangements and empty of all interest. "Where the devil am I to go, Tarvrille?
I can't even get out of things altogether...."

And then with a fresh realization of painful difficulties ahead: "I have to tell this to my
father. I've got to explain---- And he thought--he expected----"

Tarvrille opened the half of the heavy front door for me, hesitated, and came down the broad
steps into the chilly grey street and a few yards along the pavement with me. He wanted to
say something that he found difficult to say. When at last he did find words they were quite
ridiculous in substance, and yet at the time I took them as gravely as he intended them. "It's
no good quoting Marcus Aurelius," said Tarvrille, "to a chap with his finger in the crack of
a door."

"I suppose it isn't," I said.

"One doesn't want to be a flatulent ass of course," said Tarvrille, "still----"

He resumed with an air of plunging. "It will sound just rot to you now, Stratton, but after
all it comes to this. Behind us is a--situation--with half-a-dozen particular persons. Out
here--I mean here round the world--before you've done with them--there's a thousand million
people--men and women."

"Oh! what does that matter to me?" said I.

"Everything," said Tarvrille. "At least--it ought to."

He stopped and held out his hand. "Good-bye, Stratton--good luck to you! Good-bye."

"Yes," I said. "Good-bye."

I turned away from him. The image of Mary crying as a child cries suddenly blinded me and blotted
out the world.

§ 2

I want to give you as clearly as I can some impression of the mental states that followed this
passion and this collapse. It seems to me one of the most extraordinary aspects of all that
literature of speculative attack which is called psychology, that there is no name and no description
at all of most of the mental states that make up life. Psychology, like sociology, is still
largely in the scholastic stage, it is ignorant and intellectual, a happy refuge for the lazy
industry of pedants; instead of experience and accurate description and analysis it begins
with the rash assumption of elements and starts out upon ridiculous syntheses. Who with a sick
soul would dream of going to a psychologist?...

Now here was I with a mind sore and inflamed. I did not clearly understand what had happened
to me. I had blundered, offended, entangled myself; and I had no more conception than a beast
in a bog what it was had got me, or the method or even the need of escape. The desires and
passionate excitements, the anger and stress and strain and suspicion of the last few months
had worn deep grooves in my brain, channels without end or issue, out of which it seemed impossible
to keep my thoughts. I had done dishonorable things, told lies, abused the confidence of a
friend. I kept wrestling with these intolerable facts. If some momentary distraction released
me for a time, back I would fall presently before I knew what was happening, and find myself
scheming once more to reverse the accomplished, or eloquently restating things already intolerably
overdiscussed in my mind, justifying the unjustifiable or avenging defeat. I would dream again
and again of some tremendous appeal to Mary, some violent return and attack upon the situation....

One very great factor in my mental and moral distress was the uncertain values of nearly every
aspect of the case. There is an invincible sense of wild rightness about passionate love that
no reasoning and no training will ever altogether repudiate; I had a persuasion that out of
that I would presently extract a magic to excuse my deceits and treacheries and assuage my
smarting shame. And round these deep central preoccupations were others of acute exasperation
and hatred towards secondary people. There had been interventions, judgments upon insufficient
evidence, comments, and often quite justifiable comments, that had filled me with an extraordinary
savagery of resentment.

I had a persuasion, illogical but invincible, that I was still entitled to all the respect
due to a man of unblemished honor. I clung fiercely to the idea that to do dishonorable things
isn't necessarily to be dishonorable.... This state of mind I am describing is, I am convinced,
the state of every man who has involved himself in any affair at once questionable and passionate.
He seems free, but he is not free; he is the slave of the relentless paradox of his position.

And we were all of us more or less in deep grooves we had made for ourselves, Philip, Guy,
Justin, the friends involved, and all in the measure of our grooves incapable of tolerance
or sympathetic realization. Even when we slept, the clenched fist of the attitudes we had assumed
gave a direction to our dreams.

You see the same string of events that had produced all this system of intense preoccupations
had also severed me from the possible resumption of those wider interests out of which our
intrigue had taken me. I had had to leave England and all the political beginnings I had been
planning, and to return to those projects now, those now impossible projects, was to fall back
promptly into hopeless exasperation....

And then the longing, the longing that is like a physical pain, that hunger of the heart for
some one intolerably dear! The desire for a voice! The arrested habit of phrasing one's thoughts
for a hearer who will listen in peace no more! From that lonely distress even rage, even the
concoction of insult and conflict, was a refuge. From that pitiless travail of emptiness I
was ready to turn desperately to any offer of excitement and distraction.

From all those things I was to escape at last unhelped, but I want you to understand particularly
these phases through which I passed; it falls to many and it may fall to you to pass through
such a period of darkness and malign obsession. Make the groove only a little deeper, a little
more unclimbable, make the temperament a little less sanguine, and suicide stares you in the
face. And things worse than suicide, that suicide of self-respect which turns men to drugs
and inflammatory vices and the utmost outrageous defiance of the dreaming noble self that has
been so despitefully used. Into these same inky pools I have dipped my feet, where other men
have drowned. I understand why they drown. And my taste of misdeed and resentment has given
me just an inkling of what men must feel who go to prison. I know what it is to quarrel with
a world.

§ 3

My first plan when I went abroad was to change my Harbury French, which was poor stuff and
pedantic, into a more colloquial article, and then go into Germany to do the same thing with
my German, and then perhaps to remain in Germany studying German social conditions--and the
quality of the German army. It seemed to me that when the term of my exile was over I might
return to England and re-enter the army. But all these were very anæmic plans conceived by
a tired mind, and I set about carrying them out in a mood of slack lassitude. I got to Paris,
and in Paris I threw them all overboard and went to Switzerland.

I remember very clearly how I reached Paris. I arrived about sunset--I suppose at St. Lazare
or the Gare du Nord--sent my luggage to the little hotel in the Rue d'Antin where I had taken
rooms, and dreading their loneliness decided to go direct to a restaurant and dine. I remember
walking out into the streets just as shops and windows and street lamps were beginning to light
up, and strolling circuitously through the clear bright stir of the Parisian streets to find
a dinner at the Café de la Paix. Some day you will know that peculiar sharp definite excitement
of Paris. All cities are exciting, and each I think in a different way. And as I walked down
along some boulevard towards the centre of things I saw a woman coming along a side street
towards me, a woman with something in her body and something in her carriage that reminded
me acutely of Mary. Her face was downcast, and then as we converged she looked up at me, not
with the meretricious smile of her class but with a steadfast, friendly look. Her face seemed
to me sane and strong. I passed and hesitated. An extraordinary impulse took me. I turned back.
I followed this woman across the road and a little way along the opposite pavement. I remember
I did that, but I do not remember clearly what was in my mind at the time; I think it was a
vague rush towards the flash of companionship in her eyes. There I had seemed to see the glimmer
of a refuge from my desolation. Then came amazement and reaction. I turned about and went on
my way, and saw her no more.

But afterwards, later, I went out into the streets of Paris bent upon finding that woman. She
had become a hope, a desire.

I looked for her for what seemed a long time, half an hour perhaps or two hours. I went along,
peering at the women's faces, through the blazing various lights, the pools of shadowy darkness,
the flickering reflections and transient glitter, one of a vast stream of slow-moving adventurous
human beings. I crossed streams of traffic, paused at luminous kiosks, became aware of dim
rows of faces looking down upon me from above the shining enamel of the omnibuses.... My first
intentness upon one person, so that I disregarded any distracting intervention, gave place
by insensible degrees to a more general apprehension of the things about me. That original
woman became as it were diffused. I began to look at the men and women sitting at the little
tables behind the panes of the cafés, and even on the terraces--for the weather was still dry
and open. I scrutinized the faces I passed, faces for the most part animated by a sort of shallow
eagerness. Many were ugly, many vile with an intense vulgarity, but some in that throng were
pretty, some almost gracious. There was something pathetic and appealing for me in this great
sweeping together of people into a little light, into a weak community of desire for joy and
eventfulness. There came to me a sense of tolerance, of fellowship, of participation. From
an outer darkness of unhappiness or at least of joylessness, they had all come hither--as I
had come.

I was like a creature that slips back again towards some deep waters out of which long since
it came, into the light and air. It was as if old forgotten things, prenatal experiences, some
magic of ancestral memories, urged me to mingle again with this unsatisfied passion for life
about me....

Then suddenly a wave of feeling between self-disgust and fear poured over me. This vortex was
drawing me into deep and unknown things.... I hailed a passing fiacre, went straight to my
little hotel, settled my account with the proprietor, and caught a night train for Switzerland.

All night long my head ached, and I lay awake swaying and jolting and listening to the rhythms
of the wheels, Paris clean forgotten so soon as it was left, and my thoughts circling continually
about Justin and Philip and Mary and the things I might have said and done.

§ 4

One day late in February I found myself in Vevey. I had come down with the break-up of the
weather from Montana, where I had met some Oxford men I knew and had learned to ski. I had
made a few of those vague acquaintances one makes in a winter-sport hotel, but now all these
people were going back to England and I was thrown back upon myself once more. I was dull and
angry and unhappy still, full of self-reproaches and dreary indignations, and then very much
as the sky will sometimes break surprisingly through storm clouds there began in me a new series
of moods. They came to me by surprise. One clear bright afternoon I sat upon the wall that
runs along under the limes by the lake shore, envying all these people who were going back
to England and work and usefulness. I thought of myself, of my career spoilt, my honor tarnished,
my character tested and found wanting. So far as English politics went my prospects had closed
for ever. Even after three years it was improbable that I should be considered by the party
managers again. And besides, it seemed to me I was a man crippled. My other self, the mate
and confirmation of my mind, had gone from me. I was no more than a mutilated man. My life
was a thing condemned; I had joined the ranks of loafing, morally-limping, English exiles.

I looked up. The sun was setting, a warm glow fell upon the dissolving mountains of Savoy and
upon the shining mirror of the lake. The luminous, tranquil breadth of it caught me and held
me. "I am done for." The light upon the lake and upon the mountains, the downward swoop of
a bird over the water and something in my heart, gave me the lie.

"What nonsense!" I said, and felt as if some dark cloud that had overshadowed me had been thrust
back.

I stared across at Savoy as though that land had spoken. Why should I let all my life be ruled
by the blunders and adventures of one short year of adventure? Why should I become the votary
of a train of consequences? What had I been dreaming of all this time? Over there were gigantic
uplands I had never seen and trodden; and beyond were great plains and cities, and beyond that
the sea, and so on, great spaces and multitudinous things all round about the world. What did
the things I had done, the things I had failed to do, the hopes crushed out of me, the tears
and the anger, matter to that? And in some amazing way this thought so took possession of me
that the question seemed also to carry with it the still more startling collateral, what then
did they matter to me? "Come out of yourself," said the mountains and all the beauty of the
world. "Whatever you have done or suffered is nothing to the inexhaustible offer life makes
you. We are you, just as much as the past is you."

It was as though I had forgotten and now remembered how infinitely multitudinous life can be.
It was as if Tarvrille's neglected words to me had sprouted in the obscurity of my mind and
borne fruit....

I cannot explain how that mood came, I am doing my best to describe it, and it is not easy
even to describe. And I fear that to you who will have had I hope no experience of such shadows
as I had passed through, it is impossible to convey its immense elation.... I remember once
I came in a boat out of the caves of Han after two hours in the darkness, and there was the
common daylight that is nothing wonderful at all, and its brightness ahead there seemed like
trumpets and cheering, like waving flags and like the sunrise. And so it was with this mood
of my release.

There is a phrase of Peter E. Noyes', that queer echo of Emerson whom people are always rediscovering
and forgetting again, a phrase that sticks in my mind,--"Every living soul is heir to an empire
and has fallen into a pit." It's an image wonderfully apt to describe my change of mental attitude,
and render the contrast between those intensely passionate personal entanglements that had
held me tight and that wide estate of life that spreads about us all, open to all of us in
just the measure that we can scramble out of our individual selves--to a more general self.
I seemed to be hanging there at the brim of my stale and painful den, staring at the unthought-of
greatness of the world, with an unhoped-for wind out of heaven blowing upon my face.

I suppose the intention of the phrase "finding salvation," as religious people use it, is very
much this experience. If it is not the same thing it is something very closely akin. It is
as if someone were scrambling out of a pit into a largeness--a largeness that is attainable
by every man just in the measure that he realizes it is there.

I leave these fine discriminations to the theologian. I know that I went back to my hotel in
Vevey with my mind healed, with my will restored to me, and my ideas running together into
plans. And I know that I had come out that day a broken and apathetic man.

§ 5

The next day my mood declined again; it was as if that light, that sense of release that had
shone so clear and strong in my mind, had escaped me. I sought earnestly to recover it. But
I could not do so, and I found my old narrow preoccupations calling urgently to me again.

I thought that perhaps I might get back those intimations of outlook and relief if I clambered
alone into some high solitude and thought. I had a crude attractive vision of myself far above
the heat and noise, communing with the sky. It was the worst season for climbing, and on the
spur of the moment I could do nothing but get up the Rochers de Naye on the wrong side, and
try and find some eyrie that was neither slippery nor wet. I did not succeed. In one place
I slipped down a wet bank for some yards and held at last by a root; if I had slipped much
further I should not be writing here now; and I came back a very weary and bruised climber,
without any meditation....

Three nights after when I was in bed I became very lucidly awake--it must have been about two
or three in the morning--and the vision of life returned to me, with that same effect of enlargement
and illumination. It was as if the great stillness that is behind and above and around the
world of sense did in some way communicate with me. It bade me rouse my spirit and go on with
the thoughts and purposes that had been stirring and proliferating in my mind when I had returned
to England from the Cape. "Dismiss your passion." But I urged that that I could not do; there
was the thought of Mary subjugated and weeping, the smarting memory of injury and defeat, the
stains of subterfuge and discovery, the aching separation. No matter, the stillness answered,
in the end all that is just to temper you for your greater uses.... I cannot forget, I insisted.
Do not forget, but for the present this leads you no whither; this chapter has ended; dismiss
it and turn to those other things. You are not only Stephen Stratton who fell into adultery;
in these silences he is a little thing and far away; here and with me you are Man--Everyman--in
this round world in which your lot has fallen. But Mary, I urged, to forget Mary is a treason,
an ingratitude, seeing that she loved me. But the stillness did not command me to forget her,
but only to turn my face now to the great work that lies before mankind. And that work? That
work, so far as your share goes, is first to understand, to solve, and then to achieve, to
work out in the measure of yourself that torment of pity and that desire for order and justice
which together saturate your soul. Go about the world, embrue yourself with life, make use
of that confusedly striving brain that I have lifted so painfully out of the deadness of matter....

"But who are you?" I cried out suddenly to the night. "Who are you?"

I sat up on the side of my bed. The dawn was just beginning to break up the featureless blackness
of the small hours. "This is just some odd corner of my brain," I said....

Yet---- How did I come to have this odd corner in my brain? What is this lucid stillness?...

§ 6

Let me tell you rather of my thoughts than of my moods, for there at least one comes to something
with a form that may be drawn and a substance that is measurable; one ceases to struggle with
things indefinable and the effort to convey by metaphors and imaginary voices things that are
at once bodiless and soundless and lightless and yet infinitely close and real. And moreover
with that mysterious and subtle change of heart in me there came also a change in the quality
and range of my ideas. I seemed to rise out of a tangle of immediacies and misconceptions,
to see more largely and more freely than I had ever done before.

I have told how in my muddled and wounded phase I had snatched at the dull project of improving
my languages, and under the cloak of that spying a little upon German military arrangements.
Now my mind set such petty romanticism on one side. It had recovered the strength to look on
the whole of life and on my place in it. It could resume the ideas that our storm of passion
had for a time thrust into the background of my thoughts. I took up again all those broad generalizations
that had arisen out of my experiences in South Africa, and which I had been not so much fitting
into as forcing into the formulæ of English politics; I recalled my disillusionment with British
Imperialism, my vague but elaborating apprehension of a profound conflict between enterprise
and labor, a profound conflict between the life of the farm and the life of trade and finance
and wholesale production, as being something far truer to realities than any of the issues
of party and patriotism upon which men were spending their lives. So far as this rivalry between
England and Germany, which so obsessed the imagination of Europe, went, I found that any faith
I may have had in its importance had simply fallen out of my mind. As a danger to civilization,
as a conceivable source of destruction and delay, it was a monstrous business enough, but that
in the long run it mattered how or when they fought and which won I did not believe. In the
development of mankind the thing was of far less importance than the struggle for Flanders
or the wars of France and Burgundy. I was already coming to see Europe as no more than the
dog's-eared corner of the page of history,--like most Europeans I had thought it the page--and
my recovering mind was eager and open to see the world beyond and form some conception of the
greater forces that lay outside our insularities. What is humanity as a whole doing? What is
the nature of the world process of which I am a part? Why should I drift from cradle to grave
wearing the blinkers of my time and nationality, a mere denizen of Christendom, accepting its
beliefs, its stale antagonisms, its unreal purposes? That perhaps had been tolerable while
I was still an accepted member of the little world into which my lot had fallen, but now that
I was thrust out its absurdity glared. For me the alternative was to be a world-man or no man.
I had seemed sinking towards the latter: now I faced about and began to make myself what I
still seek to make myself to-day, a son of mankind, a conscious part of that web of effort
and perplexity which wraps about our globe....

All this I say came into my mind as if it were a part of that recovery of my mind from its
first passionate abjection. And it seemed a simple and obvious part of the same conversion
to realize that I was ignorant and narrow, and that, too, in a world which is suffering like
a beast in a slime pit by reason of ignorance and narrowness of outlook, and that it was my
manifest work and purpose to make myself less ignorant and to see and learn with all my being.
It came to me as a clear duty that I should get out of the land of hotels and leisure and go
seeking the facts and clues to human inter-relationship nearer the earthy roots of things,
and I turned my thoughts to India and China, those vast enigmas of human accumulation, in a
spirit extraordinarily like that of some mystic who receives a call. I felt I must go to Asia
and from Asia perhaps round the world. But it was the greatness of Asia commanded me. I wanted
to see the East not as a spectacle but as the simmering vat in which the greater destiny of
man brews and brews....

§ 7

It was necessary to tell my father of my intentions. I made numerous beginnings. I tore up
several letters and quarrelled bitterly with the hotel pens. At first I tried to describe the
change that had happened to my mind, to give him some impression of the new light, the release
that had come to me. But how difficult this present world is with its tainted and poisoned
phrases and its tangled misunderstandings! Here was I writing for the first time in my life
of something essentially religious and writing it to him whose profession was religion, and
I could find no words to convey my meaning to him that did not seem to me fraught with the
possibilities of misinterpretation. One evening I made a desperate resolve to let myself go,
and scrawled my heart out to him as it seemed that night, a strange, long letter. It was one
of the profoundest regrets that came to me when I saw him dead last winter that I did not risk
his misunderstanding and post that letter. But when I re-read it in the next morning's daylight
it seemed to me so rhetorical, so full of--what shall I call it?--spiritual bombast, it so
caricatured and reflected upon the deep feelings sustaining me, that I could not post it for
shamefacedness, and I tore it up into little pieces and sent instead the briefest of notes.

"I am doing no good here in Switzerland," I wrote. "Would you mind if I went east? I want to
see something of the world outside Europe. I have a fancy I may find something to do beyond
there. Of course, it will cost rather more than my present allowance. I will do my best to
economize. Don't bother if it bothers you--I've been bother enough to you...."

He replied still more compactly. "By all means. I will send you some circular notes, Poste
Restante, Rome. That will be on your way. Good wishes to you, Stephen. I'm glad you want to
go east instead of just staying in Switzerland."

I sit here now and wonder, little son, what he thought, what he supposed, what he understood.

I loved my father, and I began to perceive he loved me wonderfully. I can imagine no man I
would have sooner had for a priest than him; all priestcraft lays hands if it can, and with
an excellent wisdom, upon the titles and dignity of fatherhood; and yet here am I left to guessing--I
do not know whether my father ever worshipped, whether he ever prayed with his heart bared
to God. There are times when the inexpressiveness of life comes near to overwhelming me, when
it seems to me we are all asleep or entranced, and but a little way above the still cows who
stand munching slowly in a field. Why couldn't we and why didn't we talk together?... We fear
bathos too much, are shyly decent to the pitch of mania. We have neither the courage of our
bodies nor of our souls....

I went almost immediately to Rome. I stayed in Rome some days, getting together an outfit,
and incidentally seeing that greater city of the dead in whose embrace the modern city lies.
I was now becoming interested in things outside my grooves, though my grooves were still there,
deep and receptive, and I went about the place at last almost eagerly, tracing the outlines
of that great departed city on whose colossal bones the churches and palaces of the middle
ages cluster like weeds in the spaces and ruins of a magnificent garden. I found myself one
day in the Forum, thinking of that imperialism that had built the Basilica of Julius Cæsar,
and comparing its cramped vestiges with that vaster second administrative effort which has
left the world the monstrous arches of Constantine. I sat down over against these last among
the ruins of the Vestals' House, and mused on that later reconstruction when the Empire, with
its science aborted and its literature and philosophy shrivelled to nothing, its social fabric
ruined by the extravagances of financial adventure and its honor and patriotism altogether
dead, united itself, in a desperate effort to continue, with all that was most bickeringly
intolerant and destructive in Christianity--only to achieve one common vast decay. All Europe
to this day is little more than the sequel to that failure. It is the Roman Empire in disintegration.
The very churches whose domes rise to the northward of the ancient remains are built of looted
stones and look like parasitic and fungoid growths, and the tourists stream through those spaces
day by day, stare at the marble fragments, the arches, the fallen carvings and rich capitals,
with nothing greater in their minds and nothing clearer....

I discovered I was putting all this into the form of a letter to Mary. I was writing to her
in my mind, as many people talk to themselves. And I remember that I wandered upon the Palatine
Hill musing over the idea of writing a long letter to her, a long continuous letter to her,
a sort of diary of impressions and ideas, that somewhen, years ahead, I might be able to put
into her hands.

One does not carry out such an idea into reality; it is so much easier to leave the letter
imagined and unwritten if there lives but little hope of its delivery; yet for many years I
kept up an impalpable correspondence in my thoughts, a stream of expression to which no answer
came--until at last the habits of public writing and the gathering interests of a new rôle
in life diverted it to other ends.

§ 8

One morning on the way from Brindisi to Egypt I came up on deck at dawn because my mind was
restless and I could not sleep. Another solitary passenger was already up, so intently watching
a pink-lit rocky coast-line away to the north of us that for a time he did not observe me.

"That's Crete," he said, when at last he became aware of me close at hand.

"Crete!" said I.

"Yes," he said, "Crete."

He came nearer to me. "That, sir," he said with a challenging emphasis, "is the most wonderful
island I've ever yet set eyes on,--quite the most wonderful."

"Five thousand years ago," he remarked after a pause that seemed to me to be calculated, "they
were building palaces there, better than the best we can build to-day. And things--like modern
things. They had bathrooms there, beautifully fitted bathrooms--and admirable sanitation--admirable.
Practically--American. They had better artists to serve them than your King Edward has, why!
Minos would have laughed or screamed at all that Windsor furniture. And the things they made
of gold, sir--you couldn't get them done anywhere to-day. Not for any money. There was a Go
about them.... They had a kind of writing, too--before the Phoenicians. No man can read it
now, and there it is. Fifty centuries ago it was; and to-day--They grow oranges and lemons.
And they riot.... Everything else gone.... It's as if men struggled up to a certain pitch and
then--grew tired.... All this Mediterranean; it's a tired sea...."

That was the beginning of a curious conversation. He was an American, a year or so younger
than myself, going, he said, "to look at Egypt."

"In our country," he explained, "we're apt to forget all these worked-out regions. Too apt.
We don't get our perspectives. We think the whole blessed world is one everlasting boom. It
hit me first down in Yucatan that that wasn't so. Why! the world's littered with the remains
of booms and swaggering beginnings. Americanism!--there's always been Americanism. This Mediterranean
is just a Museum of old Americas. I guess Tyre and Sidon thought they were licking creation
all the time. It's set me thinking. What's really going on? Why--anywhere,--you're running
about among ruins--anywhere. And ruins of something just as good as anything we're doing to-day.
Better--in some ways. It takes the heart out of you...."

It was Gidding, who is now my close friend and ally. I remember very vividly the flavor of
morning freshness as we watched Crete pass away northward and I listened to his talk.

"I was coming out of New York Harbor a month ago and looking back at the skyscrapers," he said,
"and suddenly it hit me in the mind;--'That's just the next ruin,' I thought."

I remember that much of our first talk, but the rest of it now is indistinct.

We had however struck up an acquaintance, we were both alone, and until he left me on his way
to Abydos we seem now to have been conversing all the time. And almost all the time we were
discussing human destiny and the causes of effort and decay, and whether the last few ascendant
centuries the world has seen have in them anything more persistent than the countless beginnings
that have gone before.

"There's Science," said I a little doubtfully.

"At Cnossus there they had Dædalus, sir, fifty centuries ago. Dædalus! He was an F.R.S. all
right. I haven't a doubt he flew. If they hadn't steel they had brass. We're too conceited
about our little modern things."

§ 9

I found something very striking and dramatic in the passage from Europe to Asia. One steams
slowly through a desert that comes up close to the ship; the sand stretches away, hillock and
mound beyond hillock and mound; one sees camels in the offing stringing out to some ancient
destination; one is manifestly passing across a barrier,--the canal has changed nothing of
that. Suez is a first dab of tumultuous Orientalism, noisy and vivid. And then, after that
gleam of turmoil, one opens out into the lonely dark blue waters of the Red Sea. Right and
left the shore is a bitter, sun-scorched desolation; eastward frowns a great rampart of lowering
purple mountains towering up to Sinai. It is like no European landscape. The boat goes slowly
as if uncharted dangers lurked ahead. It is a new world with a new atmosphere. Then comes wave
upon wave of ever more sultry air, and the punkahs begin to swing and the white clothes appear.
Everyone casts off Europe, assumes an Asiatic livery. The very sun, rushing up angrily and
abruptly after a heated night, is unfamiliar, an Asiatic sun.

And so one goes down that reef-fringed waterway to Aden; it is studded with lonely-looking
lighthouses that burn, it seems, untended, and sometimes in their melancholy isolation swing
great rhythmic arms of light. And then, land and the last lateen sails of Aden vanishing together,
one stands out into the hot thundery monotonies of the Indian Ocean; into imprisonment in a
blue horizon across whose Titan ring the engines seem to throb in vain. How one paces the ship
day by day, and eats and dozes and eats again, and gossips inanely and thanks Heaven even for
a flight of flying fish or a trail of smoke from over the horizon to take one's mind a little
out of one's oily quivering prison!... A hot portentous delay; a sinister significant pause;
that is the voyage from Europe to India still.

I suppose by the time that you will go to India all this prelude will have vanished, you will
rattle through in a train-de-luxe from Calais, by way of Baku or Constantinople; you will have
none of this effect of a deliberate sullen approach across limitless miles of sea. But that
is how I went to India. Everything seemed to expand; I was coming out of the frequent landfalls,
the neighborly intimacies and neighborly conflicts of the Mediterranean into something remoter;
into larger seas and greater lands, rarer communications and a vaster future....

To go from Europe to Asia is like going from Norway to Russia, from something slight and "advanced"
to something massive and portentous. I felt that nearly nine years ago; to-day all Asia seems
moving forward to justify my feelings....

And I remember too that as I went down the Red Sea and again in the Indian Ocean I had a nearly
intolerable passion of loneliness. A wound may heal and still leave pain. I was coming out
of Europe as one comes out of a familiar house into something larger and stranger, I seemed
but a little speck of life, and behind me, far away and silent and receding, was the one other
being to whom my thoughts were open. It seemed very cruel to me that I could not write to her.

Such moods were to come to me again and again, and particularly during the inactivities of
voyages and in large empty spaces and at night when I was weary. At other times I could banish
and overcome them by forcing myself to be busy and by going to see novel and moving things.

CHAPTER THE EIGHTH

THIS SWARMING BUSINESS OF MANKIND

§ 1

I do not think I could now arrange into a consecutive history my travellings, my goings and
returnings in my wandering effort to see and comprehend the world. And certainly even if I
could arrange my facts I should still be at a loss to tell of the growth of ideas that is so
much more important than any facts, to trace the increasing light to its innumerable sources,
to a chink here, to a glowing reflection there, to a leap of burning light from some long inert
darkness close at hand. But steadily the light grew, and this vast world of man, in which our
world, little son, is the world of a limited class in a small island, began to take on definite
forms, to betray broad universal movements; what seemed at first chaotic, a drift and tangle
of passions, traditions, foolish ideas, blundering hostilities, careless tolerances, became
confusedly systematic, showed something persistent and generalized at work among its multitudinous
perplexity.

I wonder now if I can put before you very briefly the main generalizations that were growing
up in my mind during my exile, the simplified picture into which I translated the billions
of sights and sounds and--smells, for every part of the world has its distinctive olfactory
palette as much as its palette of colors--that rained daily and nightly upon my mind.

Before, my eyes again as I sit here in this quiet walled French garden, the great space before
the Jumna Musjid at Delhi reappears, as I saw it in the evening stillness against a glowing
sky of gold, and the memory of countless worshippers within, praying with a devotion no European
displays. And then comes a memory of that long reef of staircases and temples and buildings,
the ghats of Benares, in the blazing morning sun, swarming with a vast multitude of multicolored
people and the water also swarming with brown bodies. It has the colors of a bed of extravagantly
splendid flowers and the light that is Indian alone. Even as I sit here these places are alive
with happening. It is just past midday here; at this moment the sun sinks in the skies of India,
the Jumna Musjid flushes again with the glow of sunset, the smoke of evening fires streams
heavenward against its subtle lines, and upon those steps at Benares that come down the hillside
between the conquering mosque of Aurangzeb and the shining mirror of the Ganges a thousand
silent seated figures fall into meditation. And other memories recur and struggle with one
another; the crowded river-streets of Canton, the rafts and houseboats and junks innumerable,
riding over inky water, begin now to twinkle with a thousand lights. They are ablaze in Osaka
and Yokohama and Tokio, and the swarming staircase streets of Hong Kong glitter with a wicked
activity now that night has come. I flash a glimpse of Burmese temples, of villages in Java,
of the sombre purple masses of the walls of the Tartar city at Pekin with squat pagoda-guarded
gates. How those great outlines lowered at me in the twilight, full of fresh memories and grim
anticipations of baseness and violence and bloodshed! I sit here recalling it--feeling it all
out beyond the trellised vine-clad wall that bounds my physical vision.... Vast crowded world
that I have seen! going from point to point seeking for clues, for generalities, until at last
it seems to me that there emerges--something understandable.

I think I have got something understandable out of it all.

What a fantastically courageous thing is this mind of ours! My thoughts seem to me at once
presumptuous and inevitable. I do not know why it is that I should dare, that any of us should
dream of this attempt to comprehend. But we who think are everyone impelled to this amazing
effort to get it all together into some simple generality. It is not reason but a deep-seated
instinct that draws our intelligence towards explanations, that sets us perpetually seeking
laws, seeking statements that will fit into infinite, incessantly interweaving complexities,
and be true of them all! There is I perceive a valiant and magnificent stupidity about the
human mind, a disregard of disproportion and insufficiency--like the ferret which will turn
from the leveret it has seized to attack even man if he should interfere. By these desperate
feats of thinking it is that our species has achieved its victories. By them it survives. By
them it must stand the test of ultimate survival. Some forgotten man in our ancestry--for every
begetting man alive was in my individual ancestry and yours three thousand years ago--first
dared to think of the world as round,--an astounding temerity. He rolled up the rivers and
mountains, the forests and plains and broad horizons that stretched beyond his ken, that seemed
to commonsense to go on certainly for ever, into a ball, into a little ball "like an orange."
Magnificent feat of the imagination, outdoing Thor's deep draught of the sea! And once he had
done it, all do it and no one falters at the deed. You are not yet seven as I write and already
you are serenely aware that you live upon a sphere. And in much the same manner it is that
we, who are sociologists and economists, publicists and philosophers and what not, are attempting
now to roll up the vast world of facts which concern human intercourse, the whole indeed of
history and archæology, into some similar imaginable and manageable shape, that presently everyone
will be able to grasp.

I suppose there was a time when nobody bothered at all about the shape of the earth, when nobody
had even had the idea that the earth could be conceived as having a shape, and similarly it
is true that it is only in recent centuries that people have been able to suppose that there
was a shape to human history. It is indeed not much more than a century since there was any
real emergence from theological assumptions and pure romanticism and accidentalism in these
matters. Old Adam Smith it was, probing away at the roots of economics, who set going the construction
of ampler propositions. From him spring all those new interpretations which have changed the
writing of history from a record of dramatic reigns and wars and crises to an analysis of economic
forces. How impossible it would be for anyone now to write that great chapter of Gibbon's in
which he sweeps together into one contempt the history of sixty Emperors and six hundred years
of time. His note of weariness and futility vanishes directly one's vision penetrates the immediate
surface. Those Heraclians and Isaurians and Comneni were not history, a schoolboy nowadays
knows that their record is not history, knows them for the mere scum upon the stream.

And still to-day we have our great interpretations to make. Ours is a time of guesses, theories
and provisional generalizations. Our phase corresponds to the cosmography that was still a
little divided between discs and domes and spheres and cosmic eggs; that was still a thousand
years from measuring and weighing a planet. For a long time my mind hovered about the stimulating
theories of Socialism and particularly about those more systematic forms of Socialist teaching
that centre about Karl Marx. He rose quite naturally out of those early economists who saw
all the world in terms of production and saving. He was a necessary step for me at least, on
the way to understanding. For a time I did so shape the world in my mind that it seemed to
me no more than a vast enterprise for the organization and exploitation of labor. For a time
I thought human life was essentially a labor problem, that working and controlling work and
lending and selling and "speculating" made the essential substance of human life, over which
the forms of politics ran as the stripes of a tiger's skin run and bend over its living muscles.
I followed my period in thinking that. You will find in Ferrero's "Roman Decline," which was
published early in this century, and which waits for you in the library, almost exactly the
method of interpretation that was recommending itself to me in 1904 and 1905.

Well, the labor problem concerns a great--substantial, shall I say?--in human society. It is
only I think the basis and matter of society, not its shape and life and reality, but it had
to be apprehended before I could get on to more actual things. Insensibly the idea that contemporary
political forms mattered very fundamentally to men, was fading out of my mind. The British
Empire and the German Empire, the Unity of Italy, and Anglo-Saxon ascendency, the Yellow Peril
and all the other vast phantoms of the World-politician's mythology were fading out of my mind
in those years, as the Olympic cosmogony must have faded from the mind of some inquiring Greek
philosopher in the days of Heraclitus. And I revised my history altogether in the new light.
The world had ceased to be chaotic in my mind; it had become a vast if as yet a quite inconclusive
drama between employer and employed.

It makes a wonderful history, this history of mankind as a history of Labor, as a history of
the perpetual attempts of an intelligent minority to get things done by other people. It does
not explain how that aggression of the minority arose nor does it give any conception of a
primordial society which corresponds with our knowledge of the realities of primitive communities.
One begins rather in the air with a human society that sells and barters and sustains contracts
and permits land to be privately owned, and having as hastily as possible got away from that
difficulty of beginnings, having ignored the large areas of the world which remain under a
pacific and unprogressive agriculture to this day, the rest of the story becomes extremely
convincing and illuminating. It does indeed give a sustaining explanation to a large part of
recorded history, this generalization about the proclivity of able and energetic people to
make other people do things. One ignores what is being done as if that mattered nothing, and
concentrates upon the use and enslavement of men.

One sees that enslavement to labor progressing from crude directness to the most subtly indirect
methods. The first expedient of enterprise was the sword and then the whip, and still there
are remote and ugly corners of the world, in the Mexican Valle Nazionale or in Portuguese South
Africa, where the whip whistles still and the threat of great suffering and death follows hard
upon the reluctant toiler. But the larger part of our modern slavery is past the stage of brand
and whip. We have fallen into methods at once more subtle and more effective. We stand benevolently
in front of our fellow man, offering, almost as if it were food and drink and shelter and love,
the work we want him to do; and behind him, we are acutely aware, is necessity, sometimes quite
of our making, as when we drive him to work by a hut-tax or a poll tax or a rent, that obliges
him to earn money, and sometimes not so obviously of our making, sometimes so little of our
making that it is easy to believe we have no power to remove it. Instead of flicking the whip,
we groan at last with Harriet Martineau at the inexorable laws of political economy that condemn
us to comfort and direction, and those others to toil and hardship and indignity....

And through the consideration of these latter later aspects it was that I came at last to those
subtler problems of tacit self-deception, of imperfect and unwilling apprehension, of innocently
assumed advantages, of wilfully disregarded unfairness; and also to all those other problems
of motive, those forgotten questions of why we make others work for us long after our personal
needs are satisfied, why men aggrandize and undertake, which gradually have become in my mind
the essential problems of human relationship, replacing the crude problems of labor altogether
in that position, making them at last only questions of contrivance and management on the way
to greater ends.

I have come to believe now that labor problems are problems merely by the way. They have played
their part in a greater scheme. This phase of expropriation and enslavement, this half designed
and half unconscious driving of the duller by the clever, of the pacific by the bolder, of
those with weak appetites and imaginations by those with stronger appetites and imaginations,
has been a necessary phase in human development. With my innate passionate desire to find the
whole world purposeful, I cannot but believe that. But however necessary it has been, it is
necessary no longer. Strangest of saviors, there rises over the conflicts of mankind the glittering
angular promise of the machine. There is no longer any need for slavery, open or disguised.
We do not need slaves nor toilers nor mere laborers any more; they are no longer essential
to a civilization. Man has ridden on his brother man out of the need of servitude. He struggles
through to a new phase, a phase of release, a phase when leisure and an unexampled freedom
is possible to every human being. Is possible. And it is there one halts seeing that splendid
possibility of aspiration and creation before mankind--and seeing mankind for the most part
still downcast, quite unaware or incredulous, following the old rounds, the grooves of ancient
and superseded assumptions and subjections....

But here I will not trace in any detail the growth of my conviction that the ancient and heavy
obligation to work hard and continually throughout life has already slipped from man's shoulders.
Suffice it that now I conceive of the task before mankind as a task essentially of rearrangement,
as a problem in relationships, extremely complex and difficult indeed, but credibly solvable.
During my Indian and Chinese journey I was still at the Marxist stage. I went about the east
looking at labor, watching its organization and direction, seeing great interests and enterprises
replace the diffused life of an earlier phase; the disputes and discussions in the Transvaal
which had first opened my mind to these questions came back to me, and steadily I lost my interest
in those mere political and national issues with their paraphernalia of kings and flags and
governments and parties that had hitherto blinded me to these more fundamental interactions.

§ 2

It happened that in Bombay circumstances conspired to bring the crude facts of labor enslavement
vividly before me. I found a vigorous agitation raging in the English press against the horrible
sweating that was going on in the cotton mills, I met the journalist most intimately concerned
in the business on my second day in India, and before a week was out I was hard at work getting
up the question and preparing a memorandum with him on the possibility of immediate legislative
intervention. The very name of Bombay, which for most people recalls a spacious and dignified
landfall, lateen sails, green islands and jutting precipices, a long city of trees and buildings
like a bright and various breakwater between the great harbor and the sea, and then exquisite
little temples, painted bullock carriages, Towers of Silence, Parsis, and an amazingly kaleidoscopic
population,--is for me a reminder of narrow, foetid, plague-stricken streets and tall insanitary
tenement-houses packed and dripping with humanity, and of terrible throbbing factories working
far into the night, blazing with electric light against the velvet-black night-sky of India,
damp with the steam-clouds that are maintained to moisten the thread, and swarming with emaciated
overworked brown children--for even the adults, spare and small, in those mills seem children
to a western eye.

I plunged into this heated dreadful business with a passionate interest and went back to the
Yacht Club only when the craving for air and a good bath and clean clothes and space and respect
became unendurable. I waded deep in labor, in this process of consuming humanity for gain,
chasing my facts through throbbing quivering sheds reeking of sweat and excrement under the
tall black-smoking chimneys,--chasing them in very truth, because when we came prying into
the mills after the hour when child-labor should cease, there would be a shrill whistle, a
patter of feet and a cuffing and hiding of the naked little creatures we were trying to rescue.
They would be hidden under rugs, in boxes, in the most impossible places, and we dragged them
out scared and lying. Many of them were perhaps seven years old at most; and the adults--men
and women of fourteen that is to say--we could not touch at all, and they worked in that Indian
heat, in a noisome air drenched with steam for fourteen and fifteen hours a day. And essential
to that general impression is a memory of a slim Parsi mill-manager luminously explaining the
inherited passion for toil in the Indian weaver, and a certain bulky Hindu with a lemon-yellow
turban and a strip of plump brown stomach showing between his clothes, who was doing very well,
he said, with two wives and five children in the mills.

That is my Bombay, that and the columns of crossed circles marking plague cases upon the corners
of houses and a peculiar acrid smell, and the polychromatic stir of crowded narrow streets
between cliffs of architecture with carved timbers and heavy ornamentations, into which the
sun strikes obliquely and lights a thousand vivid hues....

Bombay, the gateway of what silly people were still calling in those days "the immemorial East,"
Bombay, which is newer than Boston or New York, Bombay which has grown beneath the Englishman's
shadow out of a Portuguese fort in the last two hundred years....

§ 3

I came out of these dark corners presently into the sunblaze of India. I was now intensely
interested in the whole question of employment and engaged in preparing matter for my first
book, "Enterprise and India," and therein you may read how I went first to Assam and then down
to Ceylon following up this perplexing and complicated business of human enslavement to toil,
exercised by this great spectacle of human labor, and at once attracted by and stimulated by
and dissatisfied with those socialist generalizations that would make all this vast harsh spectacle
of productive enterprise a kind of wickedness and outrage upon humanity. And behind and about
the things I was looking for were other things for which I was not looking, that slowly came
into and qualified the problem. It dawned upon me by degrees that India is not so much one
country as a vast spectacle of human development at every stage, in infinite variety. One ranges
between naked savages and the most sophisticated of human beings. I pursued my enquiries about
great modern enterprises, about railway labor, canal labor, tea-planting, across vast stretches
of country where men still lived, illiterate, agricultural, unprogressive and simple, as men
lived before the first stirrings of recorded history. One sees by the tanks of those mud-built
villages groups of women with brass vessels who are identical in pose and figure and quality
with the women modelled in Tanagra figures, and the droning wall-wheel is the same that irrigated
the fields of ancient Greece, and the crops and beasts and all the life is as it was in Greece
and Italy, Phoenicia and Judea before the very dawn of history.

By imperceptible degrees I came to realize that this matter of expropriation and enslavement
and control, which bulks so vastly upon the modern consciousness, which the Socialists treat
as though it was the comprehensive present process of mankind, is no more than one aspect of
an overlife that struggles out of a massive ancient and traditional common way of living, struggles
out again and again--blindly and always so far with a disorderly insuccess....

I began to see in their proper proportion the vast enduring normal human existence, the peasant's
agricultural life, unlettered, laborious and essentially unchanging on the one hand, and on
the other those excrescences of multitudinous city aggregation, those stormy excesses of productive
energy that flare up out of that life, establish for a time great unstable strangenesses of
human living, palaces, cities, roads, empires, literatures, and then totter and fall back again
into ruin. In India even more than about the Mediterranean all this is spectacular. There the
peasant goes about his work according to the usage of fifty thousand years. He has a primitive
version of religion, a moral tradition, a social usage, closely adapted by countless years
of trial and survival to his needs, and the whole land is littered with the vestiges and abandoned
material of those newer, bolder, more experimental beginnings, beginnings that merely began.

It was when I was going through the panther-haunted palaces of Akbar at Fatehpur Sikri that
I first felt how tremendously the ruins of the past may face towards the future; the thing
there is like a frozen wave that rose and never broke; and once I had caught that light upon
things, I found the same quality in all the ruins I saw, in Amber and Vijayanagar and Chitor,
and in all that I have seen or heard of, in ancient Rome and ancient Verona, in Pæstum and
Cnossus and ancient Athens. None of these places was ever really finished and done with; the
Basilicas of Cæsar and Constantine just as much as the baths and galleries and halls of audience
at Fatehpur Sikri express not ends achieved but thwarted intentions of permanence. They embody
repulse and rejection. They are trials, abandoned trials, towards ends vaguely apprehended,
ends felt rather than known. Even so was I moved by the Bruges-like emptinesses of Pekin, in
the vast pretensions of its Forbidden City, which are like a cry, long sustained, that at last
dies away in a wail. I saw the place in 1905 in that slack interval after the European looting
and before the great awakening that followed the Russo-Japanese war. Pekin in a century or
so may be added in its turn to the list of abandoned endeavors. Insensibly the sceptre passes....
Nearer home than any of these places have I imagined the same thing; in Paris it seemed to
me I felt the first chill shadow of that same arrest, that impalpable ebb and cessation at
the very crest of things, that voice which opposes to all the hasty ambitions and gathering
eagerness of men: "It is not here, it is not yet."

Only the other day as I came back from Paris to this quiet place and walked across the fields
from the railway station to this house, I saw an old woman, a grandmother, a bent old crone
with two children playing about her as she cut grass by the wayside, and she cut it, except
that her sickle was steel, exactly as old women were cutting grass before there was writing,
before the dawn of history, before men laid the first stones one upon the other of the first
city that ever became a ruin....

You see Civilization has never yet existed, it has only continually and obstinately attempted
to be. Our Civilization is but the indistinct twilight before the dawn. It is still only a
confused attempt, a flourish out of barbarism, and the normal life of men, the toiling earthy
life of the field and the byre, goes on still like a stream that at once supports and carries
to destruction the experimental ships of some still imperfect inventor. India gives it all
from first to last, and now the modern movement, the latest half-conscious struggle of the
New Thing in mankind, throws up Bombay and Calcutta, vast feverish pustules upon the face of
the peninsula, bridges the sacred rivers with hideous iron lattice-work and smears the sky
of the dusty ruin-girdled city of Delhi,--each ruin is the vestige of an empire,--with the
black smoke of factory chimneys.

Altogether scattered over that sun-burnt plain there are the remains of five or six extinguished
Delhis, that played their dramas of frustration before the Delhi of the Great Mogul. This present
phase of human living--its symbol at Delhi is now, I suppose, a scaffold-bristling pile of
neo-Georgian building--is the latest of the constructive synthetic efforts to make a newer
and fuller life for mankind. Who dares call it the last? I question myself constantly whether
this life we live to-day, whether that too, is more than a trial of these blind constructive
forces, more universal perhaps, more powerful perhaps than any predecessor but still a trial,
to litter the world with rusting material when the phase of recession recurs.

But yet I can never quite think that is so. This time, surely, it is different. This time may
indeed be the beginning of a permanent change; this time there are new elements, new methods
and a new spirit at work upon construction that the world has never known before. Mankind may
be now in the dawn of a fresh phase of living altogether. It is possible. The forces of construction
are proportionally gigantic. There was never so much clear and critical thought in the world
as there is now, never so large a body of generally accessible knowledge and suggestion, never
anything like the same breadth of outlook, the same universality of imaginative freedom. That
is so in spite of infinite turmoil and confusion. Moreover the effort now is less concentrated,
less dramatic. There is no one vital center to the modern movement which disaster can strike
or decay undermine. If Paris or New York slacken and grow dull and materialist, if Berlin and
London conspire for a mutual destruction, Tokio or Baku or Valparaiso or Christiania or Smyrna
or Delhi will shelter and continue the onward impetus.

And this time too it is not any one person, any one dynasty, any one cult or race which carries
our destiny. Human thought has begun to free itself from individual entanglements and dramatic
necessities and accidental standards. It becomes a collective mind, a collective will towards
achievement, greater than individuals or cities or kingdoms or peoples, a mind and will to
which we all contribute and which none of us may command nor compromise by our private errors.
It ceases to be aristocratic; it detaches itself from persons and takes possession of us all.
We are involved as it grows free and dominant, we find ourselves, in spite of ourselves, in
spite of quarrels and jealousies and conflicts, helping and serving in the making of a new
world-city, a new greater State above our legal States, in which all human life becomes a splendid
enterprise, free and beautiful, whose aptest symbol in all our world is a huge Gothic Cathedral
lit to flame by the sun, whose scheme is the towering conquest of the universe, whose every
little detail is the wrought-out effort of a human soul....

Such were the ideas that grew together in my mind as I went about India and the East, across
those vast sunlit plains, where men and women still toil in their dusty fields for a harsh
living and live in doorless hovels on floors of trampled cow-dung, persecuted by a hundred
hostile beasts and parasites, caught and eaten by tigers and panthers as cats eat mice, and
grievously afflicted by periodic famine and pestilence, even as men and women lived before
the dawn of history, for untold centuries, for hundreds of thousands of years.

§ 4

How strange we English seem in India, a little scattered garrison. Are we anything more than
accidental, anything more than the messenger-boy who has brought the impetus of the new effort
towards civilization through the gates of the East? Are we makers or just a means, casually
taken up and used by the great forces of God?

I do not know, I have never been able to tell. I have never been able to decide whether we
are the greatest or the dullest of peoples.

I think we are an imaginative people with an imagination at once gigantic, heroic and shy,
and also we are a strangely restrained and disciplined people who are yet neither subdued nor
subordinated.... These are flat contradictions to state, and yet how else can one render the
paradox of the English character and this spectacle of a handful of mute, snobbish, not obviously
clever and quite obviously ill-educated men, holding together kingdoms, tongues and races,
three hundred millions of them, in a restless fermenting peace? Again and again in India I
would find myself in little circles of the official English,-supercilious, pretentious, conventional,
carefully "turned out" people, living gawkily, thinking gawkily, talking nothing but sport
and gossip, relaxing at rare intervals into sentimentality and levity as mean as a banjo tune,
and a kind of despairful disgust would engulf me. And then in some man's work, in some huge
irrigation scheme, some feat of strategic foresight, some simple, penetrating realization of
deep-lying things, I would find an effect, as if out of a thickly rusted sheath one had pulled
a sword and found it--flame....

I recall one evening I spent at a little station in Bengal, between Lucknow and Delhi, an evening
given over to private theatricals. The theatre was a huge tent, and the little roughly improvised
stage was lit by a row of oil footlights and so small as barely to give a foothold for the
actors and actresses in the more crowded scenes. About me were the great people, the colonel's
wife, a touring young man of family, officers and the wife of the manager of the big sugar
refinery close at hand. Behind were English of a more dubious social position, also connected
with the sugar refinery, a Eurasian family or so, very dressy and aggressive and terribly snubbed,
and then I think various Portuguese and other nondescripts and groups of non-commissioned officers
and men, some with their wives. The play, admirably chosen, was that crystallization of liberal
Victorian snobbery, Caste, and I remember there was a sub-current of amusement because the
young officer who played--what is the name of the hero's friend? I forget--had in the haste
of his superficiality adopted a moustache that would not keep on and an eyeglass that would
not keep in.

Everybody was acting very badly, nobody was word-perfect and a rasping prompter would not keep
ahead as he ought to have done; the scenery and the make-ups were daubs, and I was filled with
amazement that having quite wantonly undertaken to do this thing these people could then do
it so slackly. Then a certain sudden warmth in the applause about me quickened my attention,
and I realized the satirical purport of drunken old father Eccles, and the moral intention
of his son-in-law, the plumber. Between them they expressed the whole duty of the workingman
as the prosperous Victorians conceived it. He was to work hard always at any job he could find
for any wages he could get, and if he didn't he was a "drunken shirker" and the dupe of "paid
agitators." A comforting but misleading doctrine. And here were these people a decade on in
the twentieth century, with Time, Death, and Judgment close upon them, still eagerly applauding,
eager to excuse their minds with this one-sided, ungracious, old-fashioned nonsense, that has
done so much to intensify the deepening class antagonisms that strain us now at home almost
to the breaking point!

How amazingly, it seemed, those people didn't understand and wouldn't understand any class
but their own, any race but their own, any usage other than their use! Covertly I surveyed
the colonel's profile. It expressed nothing but entire satisfaction with these disastrous interpretations.
What a weather-worn thought-free face that grizzled veteran showed the world!

I was seized with a sudden curiosity to see how the private soldiers behind me were taking
old Eccles. I turned round to discover cropped heads and faces as expressionless as masks,
and behind them dusky faces watching very alertly, and then other dusky faces, Eurasians, inferiors,
servants, natives.

Then at a sharp edge the glare of our lighting ceased and the canvas walls of our narrow world
of illusion opened into a vast blue twilight. At the opening stood two white-clad Sikhs, very,
very still and attentive, watching the performance, and beyond them was a great space of sky
over a dim profile of trees and roofs and a minaret, a sky darkling down to the flushed red
memory--such a short memory it is in India--of a day that had gone for ever.

I remained staring at that for some time.

"Isn't old Eccles good?" whispered the colonel's wife beside me, and recalled me to the play....

Somehow that picture of a narrow canvas tent in the midst of immensities has become my symbol
for the whole life of the governing English, the English of India and Switzerland and the Riviera
and the West End and the public services....

But they are not England, they are not the English reality, which is a thing at once bright
and illuminating and fitful, a thing humorous and wise and adventurous--Shakespeare, Dickens,
Newton, Darwin, Nelson, Bacon, Shelley--English names every one--like the piercing light of
lanterns swinging and swaying among the branches of dark trees at night.

§ 5

I went again to Ceylon to look into the conditions of Coolie importation, and then I was going
back into Assam once more, still in the wake of indentured labor, when I chanced upon a misadventure.
I had my first and only experience of big game shooting in the Garo Hills, I was clawed out
of a tree by a wounded panther, he missed his hold and I got back to my branch, but my shoulder
was put out, my thigh was badly torn, and my blood was poisoned by the wound. I had an evil
uncomfortable time. My injury hampered me greatly, and for a while it seemed likely I should
be permanently lamed. I had to keep to vehicles and reasonably good roads. I wound up my convalescence
with a voyage to Singapore, and from thence I went on rather disconnectedly to a number of
exploratory journeys--excursions rather than journeys--into China. I got to Pekin and then
suddenly faced back to Europe, returning overland through Russia.

I wanted now to study the conditions of modern industrialism at its sources, and my disablement
did but a little accelerate a return already decided upon. I had got my conception of the East
as a whole and of the shape of the historical process. I no longer felt adrift in a formless
chaos of forces. I perceived now very clearly that human life is essentially a creative struggle
out of the usage of immemorial years, that the synthesis of our contemporary civilization is
this creative impulse rising again in its latest and greatest effort, the creative impulse
rising again, as a wave rises from the trough of its predecessors, out of the ruins of our
parent system, imperial Rome. But this time, and for the first time, the effort is world-wide,
and China and Iceland, Patagonia and Central Africa all swing together with us to make--or
into another catastrophic failure to make--the Great State of mankind. All this I had now distinctly
in my mind. The new process I perceive had gone further in the west; was most developed in
the west. The lighter end lifts first. So back I came away from the great body of mankind,
which is Asia, to its head. And since I was still held by my promise from returning to England
I betook myself first to the Pas de Calais and then to Belgium and thence into industrial Germany,
to study the socialistic movement at its sources.

And I was beginning to see too very clearly by the time of my return that what is confusedly
called the labor problem is really not one problem at all, but two. There is the old problem,
the problem as old as Zimbabwe and the pyramids, the declining problem, the problem of organizing
masses of unskilled labor to the constructive ends of a Great State, and there is the new modification
due to machinery, which has rendered unskilled labor and labor of a low grade of skill almost
unnecessary to mankind, added coal, oil, wind and water, the elementary school and the printing-press
to our sources of power, and superseded the ancient shepherding and driving of men by the possibility
of their intelligent and willing co-operation. The two are still mixed in every discussion,
even as they are mixed in the practice of life, but inevitably they will be disentangled. We
break free from slavery, open or disguised, just as we illuminate and develop this disentanglement....

I have long since ceased to trouble about the economics of human society. Ours are not economic
but psychological difficulties. There is enough for everyone, and only a fool can be found
to deny it. But our methods of getting and making are still ruled by legal and social traditions
from the time before we had tapped these new sources of power, before there was more than enough
for everyone, and when a bare supply was only secured by jealous possession and unremitting
toil. We have no longer to secure enough by a stern insistence. We have come to a plenty. The
problem now is to make that plenty go round, and keep it enough while we do.

Our real perplexities are altogether psychological. There are no valid arguments against a
great-spirited Socialism but this, that people will not. Indolence, greed, meanness of spirit,
the aggressiveness of authority, and above all jealousy, jealousy for our pride and vanity,
jealousy for what we esteem our possessions, jealousy for those upon whom we have set the heavy
fetters of our love, a jealousy of criticism and association, these are the real obstacles
to those brave large reconstructions, those profitable abnegations and brotherly feats of generosity
that will yet turn human life--of which our individual lives are but the momentary parts--into
a glad, beautiful and triumphant co-operation all round this sunlit world.

If but humanity could have its imagination touched----

I was already beginning to see the great problem of mankind as indeed nothing other than a
magnification of the little problem of myself, as a problem in escape from grooves, from preoccupations
and suspicions, precautions and ancient angers, a problem of escape from these spiritual beasts
that prowl and claw, to a new generosity and a new breadth of view.

For all of us, little son, as for each of us, salvation is that. We have to get away from ourselves
to a greater thing, to a giant's desire and an unending life, ours and yet not our own.

§ 6

It is a queer experience to be even for a moment in the grip of a great beast. I had been put
into the fork of a tree, so that I could shoot with the big stem behind my back. The fork wasn't,
I suppose, more than a score of feet from the ground. It was a safe enough place from a tiger,
and that is what we expected. We had been misled by our tracker, who had mistaken the pugs
of a big leopard for a tiger's,--they were over rocky ground for the most part and he had only
the spoor of a chance patch of half-dried mud to go upon. The beast had killed a goat and was
beaten out of a thicket near by me in which he had been lying up. The probability had seemed
that he would go away along a tempting ravine to where Captain Crosby, who was my host, awaited
him; I, as the amateur, was intended to be little more than a spectator. But he broke back
towards the wing of the line of beaters and came across the sunlit rocks within thirty yards
of my post.

Seen going along in that way, flattened almost to the ground, he wasn't a particularly impressive
beast, and I shot at his shoulder as one might blaze away at a rabbit,--perhaps just a little
more carefully, feeling as a Lord of Creation should who dispenses a merited death. I expected
him either to roll over or bolt.

Then instantly he was coming in huge bounds towards me....

He came so rapidly that he was covered by the big limb of the tree on which I was standing
until he was quite beneath me, and my second shot, which I thought in the instant must have
missed him, was taken rapidly as he crouched to spring up the trunk.

Then you know came a sort of astonishment, and I think,--because afterwards Crosby picked up
a dropped cartridge at the foot of the tree--that I tried to reload. I believe I was completely
incredulous that the beast was going to have me until he actually got me. The thing was too
completely out of my imaginative picture. I don't believe I thought at all while he was coming
up the tree. I merely noted how astonishingly he resembled an angry cat. Then he'd got my leg,
he was hanging on to it first by two claws and then by one claw, and the whole weight of him
was pulling me down. It didn't seem to be my leg. I wasn't frightened, I felt absolutely nothing,
I was amazed. I slipped, tried to get a hold on the tree trunk, felt myself being hauled down,
and then got my arm about the branch. I still clung to my unloaded gun as an impoverished aristocrat
might cling to his patent of nobility. That was, I felt, my answer for him yet.

I suppose the situation lasted a fraction of a second, though it seemed to me to last an interminable
time. Then I could feel my leggings rip and his claw go scoring deeply down my calf. That hurt
in a kind of painless, impersonal interesting way. Was my leg coming off? Boot? The weight
had gone, that enormous weight!

He'd missed his hold altogether! I heard his claws tear down the bark of the tree and then
his heavy, soft fall upon the ground.

I achieved a cat-like celerity. In another second I was back in my fork reloading, my legs
tucked up as tightly as possible.

I peered down through the branches ready for him. He wasn't there. Not up the tree again?...
Then I saw him making off, with a halting gait, across the scorching rocks some thirty yards
away, but I could not get my gun into a comfortable position before he was out of sight behind
a ridge.... I wondered why the sunlight seemed to be flickering like an electric light that
fails, was somehow aware of blood streaming from my leg down the tree-stem; it seemed a torrent
of blood, and there was a long, loose ribbon of flesh very sickening to see; and then I fainted
and fell out of the tree, bruising my arm and cheek badly and dislocating my shoulder in the
fall.... Some of the beaters saw me fall, and brought Crosby in sufficient time to improvise
a torniquet and save my life.

CHAPTER THE NINTH

THE SPIRIT OF THE NEW WORLD

§ 1

I met Rachel again in Germany through the devices of my cousin the Fürstin Letzlingen. I had
finished seeing what I wanted to see in Westphalia and I was preparing to go to the United
States. There I thought I should be able to complete and round off that large view of the human
process I had been developing in my mind. But my departure was delayed by an attack of influenza
that I picked up at a Socialist Congress in Munich, and the dear Durchlaucht, hearing of this
and having her own views of my destiny, descended upon me while I was still in bed there, made
me get up and carried me off in her car, to take care of me herself at her villa at Boppard,
telling me nothing of any fellow-guests I might encounter.

She had a villa upon the Rhine under a hill of vineyards, where she devoted herself--she was
a widow--to matchmaking and belated regrets for the childlessness that necessitated a perpetual
borrowing of material for her pursuit. She had a motor-car, a steam-launch, several rowing
boats and canoes, a tennis-lawn, a rambling garden, a devious house and a rapid mind, and in
fact everything that was necessary for throwing young people together. She made her surprise
seem easy and natural, and with returning health I found myself already back upon my old footing
of friendly intimacy with Rachel.

I found her a new and yet a familiar Rachel. She had grown up, she was no longer a schoolgirl,
crystalline clear with gleams of emotion and understanding, and what she had lost in transparency
she had gained in depth. And she had become well-informed, she had been reading very widely
and well, I could see, and not simply reading but talking and listening and thinking. She showed
a vivid interest in the current of home politics,--at that time the last government of Mr.
Balfour was ebbing to its end and my old Transvaal friends, the Chinese coolies, were to avenge
themselves on their importers. The Tariff Reformers my father detested were still struggling
to unseat the Premier from his leadership of Conservatism....

It was queer to hear once more, after my Asiatic wanderings and dreamings, those West-End dinner-table
politics, those speculations about "Winston's" future and the possibility of Lloyd George or
Ramsay Macdonald or Macnamara taking office with the Liberals and whether there might not ultimately
be a middle party in which Haldane and Balfour, Grey and the Cecils could meet upon common
ground. It seemed now not only very small but very far off. She told me too of the huge popularity
of King Edward. He had proved to be interested, curious, understanding and clever, an unexpectedly
successful King. She described how he was breaking out of the narrow official limits that had
kept his mother in a kind of social bandbox, extending his solvent informality of friendliness
to all sorts of men. He had won the heart of Will Crooks, the labor member for Poplar, for
example, made John Burns a social success and warmed all France for England.

I surveyed this novel picture of the English throne diffusing amiability.

"I suppose it's what the throne ought to do," said Rachel. "If it can't be inspiration, at
any rate it can tolerate and reconcile and take the ill-bred bitterness out of politics."

"My father might have said that."

"I got that from your father," she said; and added after a momentary pause, "I go over and
talk to him."

"You talk to my father!"

"I like to. Or rather I listen and take it in. I go over in the afternoon. I go sometimes twice
or three times a week."

"That's kind of you."

"Not at all. You see---- It sounds impudent, I know, for a girl to say so, but we've so many
interests in common."

§ 2

I was more and more interested by Rachel as the days went on. A man must be stupid who does
not know that a woman is happy in his presence, and for two years now and more I had met no
one with a very strong personal feeling for me. And quite apart from that, her mind was extraordinarily
interesting to me because it was at once so active and so clear and so limited by her entirely
English circumstances. She had the prosperous English outlook. She didn't so much see the wide
world as get glimpses of it through the tangle of Westminster and of West End and week-end
limitations. She wasn't even aware of that greater unprosperous England, already sulking and
darkling outside her political world, that greater England which was presently to make its
first audible intimations of discontent in that remarkable anti-climax to King George's Coronation,
the Railway Strike. India for her was the land of people's cousins, Germany and the German
Dreadnoughts bulked far larger, and all the tremendous gathering forces of the East were beyond
the range of her imagination. I set myself to widen her horizons.

I told her something of the intention and range of my travels, and something of the views that
were growing out of their experiences.

I have a clear little picture in my mind of an excursion we made to that huge national Denkmal
which rears its head out of the amiable vineyards of Assmannshausen and Rudesheim over against
Bingen. We landed at the former place, went up its little funicular to eat our lunch and drink
its red wine at the pleasant inn above, and then strolled along through the woods to the monument.

The Fürstin fell behind with her unwilling escort, a newly arrived medical student from England,
a very pleasant youngster named Berwick, who was all too obviously anxious to change places
with me. She devised delays, and meanwhile I, as yet unaware of the state of affairs, went
on with Rachel to that towering florid monument with its vast gesticulating Germania, which
triumphs over the conquered provinces.

We fell talking of war and the passions and delusions that lead to war. Rachel's thoughts were
strongly colored by those ideas of a natural rivalry between Germany and England and of a necessary
revenge for France which have for nearly forty years diverted the bulk of European thought
and energy to the mere waste of military preparations. I jarred with an edifice of preconceptions
when I scoffed and scolded at these assumptions.

"Our two great peoples are disputing for the leadership of the world," I said, "and meanwhile
the whole world sweeps past us. We're drifting into a quarrelsome backwater."

I began to tell of the fermentation and new beginnings that were everywhere perceptible throughout
the East, of the vast masses of human ability and energy that were coming into action in China
and India, of the unlimited future of both North and South America, of the mere accidentalness
of the European advantage. "History," I said, "is already shifting the significance out of
Western Europe altogether, and we English cannot see it; we can see no further than Berlin,
and these Germans can think of nothing better than to taunt the French with such tawdry effigies
as this! Europe goes on to-day as India went on in the eighteenth century, making aimless history.
And the sands of opportunity run and run...."

I shrugged my shoulders and we stood for a little while looking down on the shining crescent
of the Rhine.

"Suppose," said Rachel, "that someone were to say that--in the House."

"The House," I said, "doesn't hear things at my pitch. Bat outcries. Too shrill altogether."

"It might. If you----"

She halted, hesitated for a moment on the question and asked abruptly:

"When are you coming back to England, Mr. Stratton?"

"Certainly not for six months," I said.

A movement of her eyes made me aware of the Fürstin and Berwick emerging from the trees. "And
then?" asked Rachel.

I didn't want to answer that question, in which the personal note sounded so clearly. "I am
going to America to see America," I said, "and America may be rather a big thing to see."

"You must see it?"

"I want to be sure of it--as something comprehensive. I want to get a general effect of it...."

Rachel hesitated, looked back to measure the distance of the Fürstin and her companion and
put her question again, but this time with a significance that did not seem even to want to
hide itself. "Then will you come back?" she said.

Her face flamed scarlet, but her eyes met mine boldly. Between us there was a flash of complete
understanding.

My answer, if it was lame and ungallant to such a challenge, was at least perfectly honest.
"I can't make up my mind," I said. "I've been near making plans--taking steps.... Something
holds me back...."

I had no time for an explanation.

"I can't make up my mind," I repeated.

She stood for a moment rather stiffly, staring away towards the blue hills of Alsace.

Then she turned with a smiling and undisturbed countenance to the Fürstin. Her crimson had
given place to white. "The triumph of it," she said with a slight gesture to the flamboyant
Teutonism that towered over us, and boldly repeating words I had used scarcely five minutes
before, "makes me angry. They conquered--ungraciously...."

She had overlooked something in her effort to seem entirely self-possessed. She collapsed.
"My dear!" she cried,--"I forgot!"

"Oh! I'm only a German by marriage!" cried the Fürstin. "And I can assure you I quite understand--about
the triumph of it...." She surveyed the achievement of her countrymen. "It is--ungracious.
But indeed it's only a sort of artlessness if you see the thing properly.... It's not vulgarity--it's
childishness.... They've hardly got over it yet--their intense astonishment at being any good
at war.... That large throaty Victory! She's not so militant as she seems. She's too plump....
Of course what a German really appreciates is nutrition. But I quite agree with you both....
I'm beginning to want my tea, Mr. Stratton.... Rachel!"

Her eyes had been on Rachel as she chattered. The girl had turned to the distant hills again,
and had forgotten even to pretend to listen to the answer she had evoked. Now she came back
sharply to the sound of her name.

"Tea?" said the Fürstin.

"Oh!" cried Rachel. "Yes. Yes, certainly. Rather. Tea."

§ 3

It was clear to me that after that I must as people say "have things out" with Rachel. But
before I could do anything of the sort the Fürstin pounced upon me. She made me sit up that
night after her other guests had gone to their rooms, in the cosy little turret apartment she
called her study and devoted to the reading of whatever was most notorious in contemporary
British fiction. "Sit down," said she, "by the fire in that chair there and tell me all about
it. It's no good your pretending you don't know what I mean. What are you up to with her, and
why don't you go straight to your manifest destiny as a decent man should?"

"Because manifestly it isn't my destiny," I said.

"Stuff," said the Fürstin.

"You know perfectly well why I am out of England."

"Everybody knows--except of course quite young persons who are being carefully brought up."

"Does she know?"

"She doesn't seem to."

"Well, that's what I want to know."

"Need she know?"

"Well, it does seem rather essential----"

"I suppose if you think so----"

"Will you tell her?"

"Tell her yourself, if she must be told. Down there in Surrey, she must have seen things and
heard things. But I don't see that she wants a lot of ancient history."

"If it is ancient history!"

"Oh! two years and a half,--it's an Era."

I made no answer to that, but sat staring into the fire while my cousin watched my face. At
length I made my confession. "I don't think it is ancient history at all," I said. "I think
if I met Mary again now----"

"You mean Lady Mary Justin?"

"Of course."

"It would be good for your mind if you remembered to call her by her proper name.... You think
if you met her again you two would begin to carry on. But you see,--you aren't going to meet
her. Everybody will see that doesn't happen."

"I mean that I---- Well----"

"You'd better not say it. Besides, it's nonsense. I doubt if you've given her a thought for
weeks and weeks."

"Until I came here perhaps that was almost nearly true. But you've stirred me up, sweet cousin,
and old things, old memories and habits have come to the surface again. Mary wrote herself
over my life--in all sorts of places.... I can't tell you. I've never talked of her to anyone.
I'm not able, very well, to talk about my feelings.... Perhaps a man of my sort--doesn't love
twice over."

I disregarded a note of dissent from my cousin. "That was all so magic, all my youth, all my
hope, all the splendid adventure of it. Why should one pretend?... I'm giving none of that
to Rachel. It isn't there any more to give...."

"One would think," remarked the Fürstin, "there was no gift of healing."

She waited for me to speak, and then irritated by my silence struck at me sharply with that
wicked little tongue of hers.

"Do you think that Lady Mary Justin thinks of you--as you think of her? Do you think she hasn't
settled down?"

I looked up at her quickly.

"She's just going to have a second child," the Fürstin flung out.

Yes, that did astonish me. I suppose my face showed it.

"That girl," said the Fürstin, "that clean girl would have sooner died--ten thousand deaths....
And she's never--never been anything to you."

I think that for an instant she had been frightened at her own words. She was now quite angry
and short of breath. She had contrived a rapid indignation against Mary and myself.

"I didn't know Mary had had any child at all," I said.

"This makes two," said the Fürstin, and held up a brace of fingers, "with scarcely a year and
a half between them. Not much more anyhow.... It was natural, I suppose. A natural female indecency.
I don't blame her. When a woman gives in she ought to do it thoroughly. But I don't see that
it leaves you much scope for philandering, Stephen, does it?... And there you are, and here
is Rachel. And why don't you make a clean job of your life?..."

"I didn't understand."

"I wonder what you imagined."

I reflected. "I wonder what I did. I suppose I thought of Mary--just as I had left her--always."

I remained with my mind filled with confused images of Mary, memories, astonishment....

I perceived the Fürstin was talking.

"Maundering about," she was saying, "like a huntsman without a horse.... You've got work to
do--blood in your veins. I'm not one of your ignorant women, Stephen. You ought to have a wife...."

"Rachel's too good," I said, at the end of a pause and perceiving I had to say something, "to
be that sort of wife."

"No woman's too good for a man," said the Fürstin von Letzlingen with conviction. "It's what
God made her for."

§ 4

My visit to Boppard was drawing to an end before I had a clear opportunity to have things out
with Rachel. It was in a little garden, under the very shadow of that gracious cathedral at
Worms, the sort of little garden to which one is admitted by ringing a bell and tipping a custodian.
I think Worms is in many respects one of the most beautiful cathedrals I have ever seen, so
perfectly proportioned, so delicately faded, so aloof, so free from pride or presumption, and
it rises over this green and flowery peace, a towering, lithe, light brown, sunlit, easy thing,
as unconsciously and irrelevantly splendid as a tall ship in the evening glow under a press
of canvas. We looked up at it for a time and then went on with the talk to which we had been
coming slowly since the Fürstin had packed us off for it, while she went into the town with
Berwick to buy toys for her gatekeeper's children. I had talked about myself, and the gradual
replacement of my ambition to play a part in imperial politics by wider intentions. "You know,"
I asked abruptly, "why I left England?"

She thought through the briefest of pauses. "No," she decided at last.

"I made love," I said, "to Lady Mary Justin, and we were found out. We couldn't go away together----"

"Why not?" she interjected.

"It was impossible."

For some moments neither of us spoke. "Something," she said, and then, "Some vague report,"
and left these fragments to be her reply.

"We were old playmates; we were children together. We have--something--that draws us to each
other. She--she made a mistake in marrying. We were both very young and the situation was difficult.
And then afterwards we were thrown together.... But you see that has made a great difference
to my life; it's turned me off the rails on which men of my sort usually run. I've had to look
to these other things.... They've become more to me than to most people if only because of
that...."

"You mean these ideas of yours--learning as much as you can about the world, and then doing
what you can to help other people to a better understanding."

"Yes," I said.

"And that--will fill your life."

"It ought to."

"I suppose it ought. I suppose--you find--it does."

"Don't you think it ought to fill my life?"

"I wondered if it did."

"But why shouldn't it?"

"It's so--so cold."

My questioning silence made her attempt to explain.

"One wants life more beautiful than that," she said. "One wants---- There are things one needs,
things nearer one."

We became aware of a jangling at the janitor's bell. Our opportunity for talk was slipping
away. And we were both still undecided, both blunderingly nervous and insecure. We were hurried
into clumsy phrases that afterwards we would have given much to recall.

"But how could life be more beautiful," I said, "than when it serves big human ends?"

Her brows were knit. She seemed to be listening for the sound of the unlocking gate.

"But," she said, and plunged, "one wants to be loved. Surely one needs that."

"You see, for me--that's gone."

"Why should it be gone?"

"It is. One doesn't begin again. I mean--myself. You--can. You've never begun. Not when you've
loved--loved really." I forced that on her. I over emphasized. "It was real love, you know;
the real thing.... I don't mean the mere imaginative love, blindfold love, but love that sees....
I want you to understand that. I loved--altogether...."

Across the lawn under its trim flowering-trees appeared Berwick loaded with little parcels,
and manifestly eager to separate us, and the Fürstin as manifestly putting on the drag.

"There's a sort of love," I hurried, "that doesn't renew itself ever. Don't let yourself believe
it does. Something else may come in its place, but that is different. It's youth,--a wonderful
newness.... Look at that youngster. He can love you like that. I've watched him. He does. You
know he does...."

"Yes," she said, as hurriedly; "but then, you see, I don't love him."

"You don't?"

"I can't."

"But he's such a fresh clean human being----"

"That's not all," said Rachel. "That's not all.... You don't understand."

The two drew near. "It is so hard to explain," she said. "Things that one hardly sees for oneself.
Sometimes it seems one cannot help oneself. You can't choose. You are taken...." She seemed
about to say something more, and stopped and bit her lip.

In another moment I was standing up, and the Fürstin was calling to us across ten feet of space.
"Such amoosin' little toyshops. We've got a heap of things. Just look at him!"

He smiled over his load with anxious eyes upon our faces.

"Ten separate parcels," he said, appealing for Rachel's sympathy. "I'm doing my best not to
complain."

And rather adroitly he contrived to let two of them slip, and captured Rachel to assist him.

He didn't relinquish her again.

§ 5

The Fürstin and I followed them along the broad, pleasant, tree-lined street towards the railway
station.

"A boy of that age ought not to marry a girl of that age," said the Fürstin, breaking a silence.

I didn't answer.

"Well?" she said, domineering.

"My dear cousin," I said, "I know all that you have in your mind. I admit--I covet her. You
can't make me more jealous than I am. She's clean and sweet--it is marvellous how the God of
the rest of the world can have made a thing so brave and honest and wonderful. She's better
than flowers. But I think I'm going away to-night, nevertheless."

"You don't mean you're going to carry chivalry to the point of giving that boy a chance--for
he hasn't one while you're about."

"No. You see--I want to give Rachel a chance. You know as well as I do--the things in my mind."

"That you've got to forget."

"That I don't forget."

"That you're bound in honor to forget. And who could help you better?"

"I'm going," I said and then, wrathfully, "If you think I want to use Rachel as a sort of dressing--for
my old sores----"

I left the sentence unfinished.

"Oh nonsense!" cried the Fürstin, and wouldn't speak to me again until we got to that entirely
Teutonic "art" station that is not the least among the sights of Worms.

"Sores, indeed!" said the Fürstin presently, as we walked up the end of the platform.

"There's nothing," said the Fürstin, with an unusual note of petulance, "she'd like better."

"I can't think what men are coming to," she went on. "You're in love with her, or you wouldn't
be so generous. And she's head over heels with you. And here you are! I'll give you one more
chance----"

"I won't take it," I interrupted. "It isn't fair. I tell you I won't take it. I'll go two days
earlier to prevent you. Unless you promise me---- Of course I see how things are with her.
She's not a sphinx. But it isn't fair. It isn't. Not to her, or to him--or myself. He's got
some claims. He's got more right to her than I...."

"A boy like that! No man has any rights about women--until he's thirty. And as for me and all
the pains I've taken---- Oh! I hate Worms. Dust and ashes! Well here thank heaven! comes the
train. If nothing else could stir you, Stephen, at least I could have imagined some decent
impulse of gratitude to me. Stephen, you're disgusting. You've absolutely spoilt this trip
for me--absolutely. When only a little reasonableness on your part---- Oh!"

She left her sentence unfinished.

Berwick and I had to make any conversation that was needed on the way back to Boppard. Rachel
did not talk and the Fürstin did not want to.

§ 6

Directly I had parted from Rachel's questioning eyes I wanted to go back to them. It seems
to me now that all the way across to America, in that magnificent German liner I joined at
Hamburg, I was thinking in confused alternations of her and of Mary. There are turns of thought
that still bring back inseparably with them the faint echo of the airs of the excellent but
industrious band that glorified our crossing.

I had been extraordinarily shocked and concerned at the thought of Mary bearing children. It
is a grotesque thing to confess but I had never let myself imagine the possibility of such
a thing for her who had been so immensely mine....

We are the oddest creatures, little son, beasts and barbarians and brains, neither one nor
the other but all confusedly, and here was I who had given up Mary and resigned her and freed
myself from her as I thought altogether, cast back again into my old pit by the most obvious
and necessary consequence of her surrender and mine. And it's just there and in that relation
that we men and women are so elaborately insecure. We try to love as equals and behave as equals
and concede a level freedom, and then comes a crisis,--our laboriously contrived edifice of
liberty collapses and we perceive that so far as sex goes the woman remains to the man no more
than a possession--capable of loyalty or treachery.

There, still at that barbaric stage, the situation stands. You see I had always wanted to own
Mary, and always she had disputed that. That is our whole story, the story of an instinctive
subjugation struggling against a passionate desire for fellowship. She had denied herself to
me, taken herself away; that much I could endure; but now came this blazing fact that showed
her as it seemed in the most material and conclusive way--overcome. I had storms of retrospective
passion at the thoroughness of her surrender.... Yes, and that's in everyone of us,--in everyone.
I wonder if in all decent law-abiding London there lives a single healthy adult man who has
not at times longed to trample and kill....

For once I think the Fürstin miscalculated consequences. I think I should have engaged myself
to Rachel before I went to America if it had not been for the Fürstin's revelation, but this
so tore me that I could no longer go on falling in love again, naturally and sweetly. No man
falls in love if he has just been flayed.... I could no longer think of Rachel except as a
foil to Mary. I was moved to marry her by a new set of motives; to fling her so to speak in
Mary's face, and from the fierce vulgarity of that at least I recoiled--and let her go as I
have told you.

§ 7

I had thought all that was over.

I remember my struggles to recover my peace.

I remember how very late one night I went up to the promenade deck to smoke a cigar before
turning in. It was a warm moonlight night. The broad low waves of ebony water that went seething
past below, foamed luminous and were streaked and starred with phosphorescence. The recumbent
moon, past its full and sinking westward, seemed bigger than I had ever seen it before, and
the roundness of the watery globe was manifest about the edge of the sky. One had that sense
so rare on land, so common in the night at sea, of the world as a conceivable sphere, and of
interstellar space as of something clear and close at hand.

There came back to me again that feeling I had lost for a time in Germany of being not myself
but Man consciously on his little planet communing with God.

But my spirit was saying all the time, "I am still in my pit, in my pit. After all I am still
in my pit."

And then there broke the answer on my mind, that all our lives we must struggle out of our
pits, that to struggle out of our pit is this life, there is no individual life but that, and
that there comes no escape here, no end to that effort, until the release of death. Continually
or frequently we may taste salvation, but never may we achieve it while we are things of substance.
Each moment in our lives we come to the test and are lost again or saved again. To be assured
of one's security is to forget and fall away.

And standing at the rail with these thoughts in my mind, suddenly I prayed....

I remember how the engine-throbs beat through me like the beating of a heart, and that far
below, among the dim lights that came up from the emigrants in the steerage, there was a tinkling
music as I prayed and a man's voice singing a plaintive air in some strange Slavonic tongue.

That voice of the invisible singer and the spirit of the unknown song-maker and the serenity
of the sky, they were all, I perceived, no more and no less than things in myself that I did
not understand. They were out beyond the range of understanding. And yet they fell into the
completest harmony that night with all that I seemed to understand....

§ 8

The onset of New York was extraordinarily stimulating to me. I write onset. It is indeed that.
New York rides up out of the waters, a cliff of man's making; its great buildings at a distance
seem like long Chinese banners held up against the sky. From Sandy Hook to the great landing
stages and the swirling hooting traffic of the Hudson River there fails nothing in that magnificent
crescendo of approach.

And New York keeps the promise of its first appearance. There is no such fulness of life elsewhere
in all the world. The common man in the streets is a bigger common man than any Old World city
can show, physically bigger; there is hope in his eyes and a braced defiance. New York may
be harsh and blusterous and violent, but there is a breeze from the sea and a breeze of fraternity
in the streets, and the Americans of all peoples in the world are a nation of still unbroken men.

I went to America curious, balancing between hope and scepticism. The European world is full
of the criticism of America, and for the matter of that America too is full of it; hostility
and depreciation prevail,--overmuch, for in spite of rawness and vehemence and a scum of blatant,
oh! quite asinine folly, the United States of America remains the greatest country in the world
and the living hope of mankind. It is the supreme break with the old tradition; it is the freshest
and most valiant beginning that has ever been made in human life.

Here was the antithesis of India; here were no peasants whatever, no traditional culture, no
castes, no established differences (except for the one schism of color); this amazing place
had never had a famine, never a plague; here were no temples and no priesthoods dominating
the lives of the people,--old Trinity church embedded amidst towering sky-scrapers was a symbol
for as much as they had of all that; and here too there was no crown, no affectations of an
ancient loyalty, no visible army, no traditions of hostility, for the old defiance of Britain
is a thing now ridiculous and dead; and everyone I met had an air as if he knew that to-morrow
must be different from to-day and different and novel and remarkable by virtue of himself and
such as himself.

I went about New York, with the incredulous satisfaction of a man who has long doubted, to
find that after all America was coming true. The very clatter pleased me, the crowds, the camp-like
slovenliness, a disorder so entirely different from the established and accepted untidiness
of China or India. Here was something the old world had never shown me, a new enterprise, a
fresh vigor. In the old world there is Change, a mighty wave now of Change, but it drives men
before it as if it were a power outside them and not in them; they do not know, they do not
believe; but here the change is in the very blood and spirit of mankind. They breathe it in
even before the launch has brought their feet to Ellis Island soil. In six months they are
Americanized. Does it matter that a thing so gigantic should be a little coarse and blundering
in detail, if this stumbling giant of the new time breaks a gracious relic or so in his eager
clutch and treads a little on the flowers?

§ 9

And in this setting of energy and activity, towering city life and bracing sea breezes, I met
Gidding again, whom I had last seen departing into Egypt to look more particularly at the prehistoric
remains and the temples of the first and second dynasty at Abydos. It was at a dinner-party,
one of those large gatherings that welcome interesting visitors. It wasn't, of course, I who
was the centre of interest, but a distinguished French portrait painter; I was there as just
any guest. I hadn't even perceived Gidding until he came round to me in that precious gap of
masculine intercourse that ensues upon the departure of the ladies. That gap is one of the
rare opportunities for conversation men get in America.

"I don't know whether you will remember me," he said, "but perhaps you remember Crete--in the
sunrise."

"And no end of talk afterwards," I said, grasping his hand, "no end--for we didn't half finish.
Did you have a good time in Egypt?"

"I'm not going to talk to you about Egypt," said Gidding. "I'm through with ruins. I'm going
to ask you--you know what I'm going to ask you."

"What I think of America. It's the same inevitable question. I think everything of it. It's
the stepping-off place. I've come here at last, because it matters most."

"That's what we all want to believe," said Gidding. "That's what we want you to tell us."

He reflected. "It's immense, isn't it, perfectly immense? But---- I am afraid at times we're
too disposed to forget just what it's all about. We've got to be reminded. That, you know,
is why we keep on asking."

He went on to question me where I had been, what I had done, what I made of things. He'd never,
he said, forgotten our two days' gossip in the Levant, and all the wide questions about the
world and ourselves that we had broached then and left so open. I soon found myself talking
very freely to him. I am not a ready or abundant talker, but Gidding has the knack of precipitating
my ideas. He is America to my Europe, and at his touch all that has been hanging in concentrated
solution in my mind comes crystallizing out. He has to a peculiar degree that directness and
simplicity which is the distinctive American quality. I tried to explain to his solemnly nodding
head and entirely intelligent eyes just exactly what I was making of things, of the world,
of humanity, of myself....

It was an odd theme for two men to attempt after dinner, servants hovering about them, their
two faces a little flushed by wine and good eating, their keen interest masked from the others
around them by a gossiping affectation, their hands going out as they talked for matches or
cigarette, and before we had gone further than to fling out a few intimations to each other
our colloquy was interrupted by our host standing up and by the general stir that preluded
our return to feminine society. "We've got more to say than this," said Gidding. "We've got
to talk." He brought out a little engagement book that at once drew out mine in response. And
a couple of days after, we spent a morning and afternoon together and got down to some very
intimate conversation. We motored out to lunch at a place called Nyack, above the Palisades,
we crossed on a ferry to reach it, and we visited the house of Washington Irving near Yonkers
on our way.

I've still a vivid picture in my mind of the little lawn at Irvington that looks out upon the
rushing steel of Hudson River, where Gidding opened his heart to me. I can see him now as he
leant a little forward over the table, with his wrists resting upon it, his long clean-shaven
face very solemn and earnest and grey against the hard American sunlight in the greenery about
us, while he told me in that deliberate American voice of his and with the deliberate American
solemnity, of his desire to "do some decent thing with life."

He was very anxious to set himself completely before me, I remember, on that occasion. There
was a peculiar mental kinship between us that even the profound differences of our English
and American trainings could not mask. And now he told me almost everything material about
his life. For the first time I learnt how enormously rich he was, not only by reason of his
father's acquisitions, but also because of his own almost instinctive aptitude for business.
"I've got," he said, "to begin with, what almost all men spend their whole lives in trying
to get. And it amounts to nothing. It leaves me with life like a blank sheet of paper, and
nothing in particular to write on it."

"You know," he said, "it's--exasperating. I'm already half-way to three-score and ten, and
I'm still wandering about wondering what to do with this piece of life God has given me...."

He had "lived" as people say, he had been in scrapes and scandals, tasted to the full the bitter
intensities of the personal life; he had come by a different route to the same conclusions
as myself, was as anxious as I to escape from memories and associations and feuds and that
excessive vividness of individual feeling which blinds us to the common humanity, the common
interest, the gentler, larger reality, which lies behind each tawdrily emphatic self....

"It's a sort of inverted homoeopathy I want," he said. "The big thing to cure the little thing...."

But I will say no more of that side of our friendship, because the ideas of it are spread all
through this book from the first page to the last.... What concerns me now is not our sympathy
and agreement, but that other aspect of our relations in which Gidding becomes impulse and
urgency. "Seeing we have these ideas," said he,--"and mind you there must be others who have
them or are getting to them, for nobody thinks all alone in this world,--seeing we have these
ideas what are we going to do?"

§ 10

That meeting was followed by another before I left New York, and presently Gidding joined me
at Denver, where I was trying to measure the true significance of a labor paper called The
Appeal to Reason that, in spite of a rigid boycott by the ordinary agencies for news distribution
went out in the middle west to nearly half a million subscribers, and was filled with such
a fierceness of insurrection against labor conditions, such a hatred, blind and impassioned,
as I had never known before. Gidding remained with me there and came back with me to Chicago,
where I wanted to see something of the Americanization of the immigrant, and my survey of America,
the social and economic problem of America, resolved itself more and more into a conference
with him.

There is no more fruitless thing in the world than to speculate how life would have gone if
this thing or that had not happened. Yet I cannot help but wonder how far I might have travelled
along the lines of my present work if I had gone to America and not met Gidding, or if I had
met him without visiting America. The man and his country are inextricably interwoven in my
mind. Yet I do think that his simplicity and directness, his force of initiative that turned
me from a mere enquirer into an active writer and organizer, are qualities less his in particular
than America's in general. There is in America a splendid crudity, a directness that cleared
my spirit as a bracing wind will sweep the clouds from mountain scenery. Compared with our
older continents America is mankind stripped for achievement. So many things are not there
at all, need not be considered; no institutional aristocracy, no Kaisers, Czars, nor King-Emperors
to maintain a litigious sequel to the Empire of Rome; it has no uneducated immovable peasantry
rooted to the soil, indeed it has no rooting to the soil at all; it is, from the Forty-ninth
Parallel to the tip of Cape Horn, one triumphant embodiment of freedom and deliberate agreement.
For I mean all America, Spanish-speaking as well as English-speaking; they have this detachment
from tradition in common. See how the United States, for example, stands flatly on that bare
piece of eighteenth-century intellectualism the Constitution, and is by virtue of that a structure
either wilful and intellectual or absurd. That sense of incurable servitude to fate and past
traditions, that encumbrance with ruins, pledges, laws and ancient institutions, that perpetual
complication of considerations and those haunting memories of preceding human failures which
dwarf the courage of destiny in Europe and Asia, vanish from the mind within a week of one's
arrival in the New World. Naturally one begins to do things. One is inspired to do things.
One feels that one has escaped, one feels that the time is now. All America, North and South
alike, is one tremendous escape from ancient obsessions into activity and making.

And by the time I had reached America I had already come to see that just as the issues of
party politics at home and international politics abroad are mere superficialities above the
greater struggle of an energetic minority to organize and exploit the labor of the masses of
mankind, so that struggle also is only a huge incident in the still more than half unconscious
impulse to replace the ancient way of human living by a more highly organized world-wide social
order, by a world civilization embodying itself in a World State. And I saw now how that impulse
could neither cease nor could it on the other hand realize itself until it became conscious
and deliberate and merciful, free from haste and tyranny, persuasive and sustained by a nearly
universal sympathy and understanding. For until that arrives the creative forces must inevitably
spend themselves very largely in blind alleys, futile rushes and destructive conflicts. Upon
that our two minds were agreed.

"We have," said Gidding, "to understand and make understanding. That is the real work for us
to do, Stratton, that is our job. The world, as you say, has been floundering about, half making
civilization and never achieving it. Now we, I don't mean just you and me, Stratton, particularly,
but every intelligent man among us, have got to set to and make it thorough. There is no other
sane policy for a man outside his private passions but that. So let's get at it----"

I find it now impossible to trace the phases by which I reached these broad ideas upon which
I rest all my work, but certainly they were present very early in my discussions with Gidding.
We two men had been thinking independently but very similarly, and it is hard to say just what
completing touches either of us gave to the other's propositions. We found ourselves rather
than arrived at the conception of ourselves as the citizens neither of the United States nor
of England but of a state that had still to come into being, a World State, a great unity behind
and embracing the ostensible political fabrics of to-day--a unity to be reached by weakening
antagonisms, by developing understandings and toleration, by fostering the sense of brotherhood
across the ancient bounds.

We believed and we believe that such a creative conception of a human commonweal can be fostered
in exactly the same way that the idea of German unity was fostered behind the dukedoms, the
free cities and kingdoms of Germany, a conception so creative that it can dissolve traditional
hatreds, incorporate narrower loyalties and replace a thousand suspicions and hostilities by
a common passion for collective achievement, so creative that at last the national boundaries
of to-day may become obstacles as trivial to the amplifying good-will of men as the imaginary
line that severs Normandy from Brittany, or Berwick from Northumberland.

And it is not only a great peace about the earth that this idea of a World State means for
us, but social justice also. We are both convinced altogether that there survives no reason
for lives of toil, for hardship, poverty, famine, infectious disease, for the continuing cruelties
of wild beasts and the greater multitude of crimes, but mismanagement and waste, and that mismanagement
and waste spring from no other source than ignorance and from stupid divisions and jealousies,
base patriotisms, fanaticisms, prejudices and suspicions that are all no more than ignorance
a little mingled with viciousness. We have looked closely into this servitude of modern labor,
we have seen its injustice fester towards syndicalism and revolutionary socialism, and we know
these things for the mere aimless, ignorant resentments they are; punishments, not remedies.
We have looked into the portentous threat of modern war, and it is ignorant vanity and ignorant
suspicion, the bargaining aggression of the British prosperous and the swaggering vulgarity
of the German junker that make and sustain that monstrous European devotion to arms. And we
are convinced there is nothing in these evils and conflicts that light may not dispel. We believe
that these things can be dispelled, that the great universals, Science which has limitations
neither of race nor class, Art which speaks to its own in every rank and nation, Philosophy
and Literature which broaden sympathy and banish prejudice, can flood and submerge and will
yet flow over and submerge every one of these separations between man and man.

I will not say that this Great State, this World Republic of civilized men, is our dream, because
it is not a dream, it is a manifestly reasonable possibility. It is our intention. It is what
we are deliberately making and what in a little while very many men and women will be making.
We are secessionists from all contemporary nationalities and loyalties. We have set ourselves
with all the capacity and energy at our disposal to create a world-wide common fund of ideas
and knowledge, and to evoke a world-wide sense of human solidarity in which the existing limitations
of political structure must inevitably melt away.

It was Gidding and his Americanism, his inborn predisposition to innovation and the large freedom
of his wealth that turned these ideas into immediate concrete undertakings. I see more and
more that it is here that we of the old European stocks, who still grow upon the old wood,
differ most from those vigorous grafts of our race in America and Africa and Australia on the
one hand and from the renascent peoples of the East on the other: that we have lost the courage
of youth and have not yet gained the courage of desperate humiliations, in taking hold of things.
To Gidding it was neither preposterous nor insufferably magnificent that we should set about
a propaganda of all science, all knowledge, all philosophical and political ideas, round about
the habitable globe. His mind began producing concrete projects as a fire-work being lit produces
sparks, and soon he was "figuring out" the most colossal of printing and publishing projects,
as a man might work out the particulars for an alteration to his bathroom. It was so entirely
natural to him, it was so entirely novel to me, to go on from the proposition that understanding
was the primary need of humanity to the systematic organization of free publishing, exhaustive
discussion, intellectual stimulation. He set about it as a company of pharmacists might organize
the distribution of some beneficial cure.

"Say, Stratton," he said, after a conversation that had seemed to me half fantasy; "Let's do it."

There are moments still when it seems to me that this life of mine has become the most preposterous
of adventures. We two absurd human beings are spending our days and nights in a sustained and
growing attempt to do what? To destroy certain obsessions and to give the universal human mind
a form and a desire for expression. We have put into the shape of one comprehensive project
that force of released wealth that has already dotted America with universities, libraries,
institutions for research and enquiry. Already there are others at work with us, and presently
there will be a great number. We have started an avalanche above the old politics and it gathers
mass and pace....

And there never was an impulse towards endeavor in a human heart that wasn't preposterous.
Man is a preposterous animal. Thereby he ceases to be a creature and becomes a creator, he
turns upon the powers that made him and subdues them to his service; by his sheer impudence
he establishes his claim to possess a soul....

But I need not write at all fully of my work here. This book is not about that but about my
coming to that. Long before this manuscript reaches your hands--if ultimately I decide that
it shall reach your hands--you will be taking your share, I hope, in this open conspiracy against
potentates and prejudices and all the separating powers of darkness.

§ 11

I would if I could omit one thing that I must tell you here, because it goes so close to the
very core of all this book has to convey. I wish I could leave it out altogether. I wish I
could simplify my story by smoothing out this wrinkle at least and obliterating a thing that
was at once very real and very ugly. You see I had at last struggled up to a sustaining idea,
to a conception of work and duty to which I could surely give my life. I had escaped from my
pit so far. And it was natural that now with something to give I should turn not merely for
consolation and service but for help and fellowship to that dear human being across the seas
who had offered them to me so straightly and sweetly. All that is brave and good and as you
would have me, is it not? Only, dear son, that is not all the truth.

There was still in my mind, for long it remained in my mind, a bitterness against Mary. I had
left her, I had lost her, we had parted; but from Germany to America and all through America
and home again to my marriage and with me after my marriage, it rankled that she could still
go on living a life independent of mine. I had not yet lost my desire to possess her, to pervade
and dominate her existence; my resentment that though she loved me she had first not married
me and afterwards not consented to come away with me was smouldering under the closed hatches
of my mind. And so while the better part of me was laying hold of this work because it gave
me the hope of a complete distraction and escape from my narrow and jealous self, that lower
being of the pit was also rejoicing in the great enterprises before me and in the marriage
upon which I had now determined, because it was a last trampling upon my devotion to Mary,
because it defied and denied some lurking claims to empire I could suspect in her. I want to
tell you that particularly because so I am made, so you are made, so most of us are made. There
is scarcely a high purpose in all the world that has no dwarfish footman at its stirrup, no
base intention over which there does not ride at least the phantom of an angel.

Constantly in those days, it seems to me now, I was haunted by my own imagination of Mary amiably
reconciled to Justin, bearing him children, forgetful of or repudiating all the sweetness,
all the wonder and beauty we had shared.... It was an unjust and ungenerous conception, I knew
it for a caricature even as I entertained it, and yet it tormented me. It stung me like a spur.
It kept me at work, and if I strayed into indolence brought me back to work with a mind galled
and bleeding....

§ 12

And I suppose it is mixed up with all this that I could not make love easily and naturally
to Rachel. I could not write love-letters to her. There is a burlesque quality in these scruples,
I know, seeing that I was now resolved to marry her, but that is the quality, that is the mixed
texture of life. We overcome the greater things and are conscience-stricken by the details.

I wouldn't, even at the price of losing her--and I was now passionately anxious not to lose
her--use a single phrase of endearment that did not come out of me almost in spite of myself.
At any rate I would not cheat her. And my offer of marriage when at last I sent it to her from
Chicago was, as I remember it, almost business-like. I atoned soon enough for that arid letter
in ten thousand sweet words that came of themselves to my lips. And she paid me at any rate
in my own coin when she sent me her answer by cable, the one word "Yes."

And indeed I was already in love with her long before I wrote. It was only a dread of giving
her a single undeserved cheapness that had held me back so long. It was that and the perplexity
that Mary still gripped my feelings; my old love for her was there in my heart in spite of
my new passion for Rachel, it was blackened perhaps and ruined and changed but it was there.
It was as if a new crater burnt now in the ampler circumference of an old volcano, which showed
all the more desolate and sorrowful and obsolete for the warm light of the new flames....

How impatiently I came home! Thoughts of England I had not dared to think for three long years
might now do what they would in me. I dreamt of the Surrey Hills and the great woods of Burnmore
Park, of the changing skies and stirring soft winds of our grey green Motherland. There was
fog in the Irish Sea, and we lost the better part of a day hooting our way towards Liverpool
while I fretted about the ship with all my luggage packed, staring at the grey waters that
weltered under the mist. It was the longest day in my life. My heart was full of desire, my
eyes ached for the little fields and golden October skies of England, England that was waiting
to welcome me back from my exile with such open arms. I was coming home,--home.

I hurried through London into Surrey and in my father's study, warned by a telegram, I found
a bright-eyed, resolute young woman awaiting me, with the quality about her of one who embarks
upon a long premeditated adventure. And I found too a family her sisters and her brother all
gladly ready for me, my father too was a happy man, and on the eighth of November in 1906 Rachel
and I were married in the little church at Shere. We stayed for a week or so in Hampshire near
Ringwood, the season was late that year and the trees still very beautiful; and then we went
to Portofino on the Ligurian coast.

There presently Gidding joined us and we began to work out the schemes we had made in America,
the schemes that now fill my life.

CHAPTER THE TENTH

MARY WRITES

§ 1

It was in the early spring of 1909 that I had a letter from Mary.

By that time my life was set fully upon its present courses, Gidding and I had passed from
the stage of talking and scheming to definite undertakings. Indeed by 1909 things were already
organized upon their present lines. We had developed a huge publishing establishment with one
big printing plant in Barcelona and another in Manchester, and we were studying the peculiar
difficulties that might attend the establishment of a third plant in America. Our company was
an English company under the name of Alphabet and Mollentrave, and we were rapidly making it
the broadest and steadiest flow of publication the world had ever seen. Its streams already
reached further and carried more than any single firm had ever managed to do before. We were
reprinting, in as carefully edited and revised editions as we could, the whole of the English,
Spanish and French literature, and we were only waiting for the release of machinery to attack
German, Russian and Italian, and were giving each language not only its own but a very complete
series of good translations of the classical writers in every other tongue. We had a little
band of editors and translators permanently in our service at each important literary centre.
We had, for example, more than a score of men at work translating Bengali fiction and verse
into English,--a lot of that new literature is wonderfully illuminating to an intelligent Englishman--and
we had a couple of men hunting about for new work in Arabic. We meant to give so good and cheap
a book, and to be so comprehensive in our choice of books, excluding nothing if only it was
real and living, on account of any inferiority of quality, obscurity of subject or narrowness
of demand, that in the long run anybody, anywhere, desiring to read anything would turn naturally
and inevitably to our lists.

Ours was to be in the first place a world literature. Then afterwards upon its broad currents
of distribution and in the same forms we meant to publish new work and new thought. We were
also planning an encyclopædia. Behind our enterprise of translations and reprints we were getting
together and putting out a series of guide-books, gazetteers, dictionaries, text-books and
books of reference, and we were organizing a revising staff for these, a staff that should
be constantly keeping them up to date. It was our intention to make every copy we printed bear
the date of its last revision in a conspicuous place, and we hoped to get the whole line of
these books ultimately upon an annual basis, and to sell them upon repurchasing terms that
would enable us to issue a new copy and take back and send the old one to the pulping mill
at a narrow margin of profit. Then we meant to spread our arms wider, and consolidate and offer
our whole line of text-books, guide-books and gazetteers, bibliographies, atlases, dictionaries
and directories as a new World Encyclopædia, that should also annually or at longest biennially
renew its youth.

So far we had gone in the creation of a huge international organ of information, and of a kind
of gigantic modern Bible of world literature, and in the process of its distribution we were
rapidly acquiring an immense detailed knowledge of the book and publishing trade, finding congestions
here, neglected opportunities there, and devising and drawing up a hundred schemes for relief,
assistance, amalgamation and rearrangement. We had branches in China, Japan, Peru, Iceland
and a thousand remote places that would have sounded as far off as the moon to an English or
American bookseller in the seventies. China in particular was a growing market. We had a subsidiary
company running a flourishing line of book shops in the east-end of London, and others in New
Jersey, Chicago, Buenos Ayres, the South of France, and Ireland. Incidentally we had bought
up some thousands of miles of Labrador forest to ensure our paper supply, and we could believe
that before we died there would not be a corner of the world in which any book of interest
or value whatever would not be easily attainable by any intelligent person who wanted to read
it. And already we were taking up the more difficult and ambitious phase of our self-appointed
task, and considering the problem of using these channels we were mastering and deepening and
supplementing for the stimulation and wide diffusion of contemporary thought.

There we went outside the province of Alphabet and Mollentrave and into an infinitely subtler
system of interests. We wanted to give sincere and clear-thinking writers encouragement and
opportunity, to improve the critical tribunal and make it independent of advertising interests,
so that there would be a readier welcome for luminous thinking and writing and a quicker explosion
of intellectual imposture. We sought to provide guides and intelligencers to contemporary thought.
We had already set up or subsidized or otherwise aided a certain number of magazines and periodicals
that seemed to us independent-spirited, out-spoken and well handled, but we had still to devise
our present scheme of financing groups of men to create magazines and newspapers, which became
their own separate but inalienable property after so many years of success.

But all this I hope you will already have become more or less familiar with when this story
reaches your hands, and I hope by the time it does so we shall be far beyond our present stage
of experiment and that you will have come naturally to play your part in this most fascinating
business of maintaining an onward intellectual movement in the world, a movement not simply
independent of but often running counter to all sorts of political and financial interests.
I tell you this much here for you to understand that already in 1909 and considering the business
side of my activities alone, I was a hard worker and very strenuously employed. And in addition
to all this huge network of enterprises I had developed with Gidding, I was still pretty actively
a student. I wasn't--I never shall be--absolutely satisfied with my general ideas. I was enquiring
keenly and closely into those problems of group and crowd psychology from which all this big
publishing work has arisen, and giving particular attention to the war-panics and outbreaks
of international hostility that were then passing in deepening waves across Europe. I had already
accumulated a mass of notes for the book upon "Group Jealousy in Religious Persecution, Racial
Conflicts and War" which I hope to publish the year after next, and which therefore I hope
you will have read long before this present book can possibly come to you. And moreover Rachel
and I had established our home in London--in the house we now occupy during the winter and
spring--and both you and your little sister had begun your careers as inhabitants of this earth.
Your little sister had indeed but just begun.

And then one morning at the breakfast-table I picked a square envelope out of a heap of letters,
and saw the half-forgotten and infinitely familiar handwriting of Lady Mary Justin.... The
sight of it gave me an odd mixture of sensations. I was startled, I was disturbed, I was a
little afraid. I hadn't forgiven her yet; it needed but this touch to tell me how little I
had forgotten....

§ 2

I sat with it in my hand for a moment or so before I opened it, hesitating as one hesitates
before a door that may reveal a dramatic situation. Then I pushed my chair a little back from
the table and ripped the envelope.

It was a far longer letter than Mary had ever written me in the old days, and in a handwriting
as fine as ever but now rather smaller. I have it still, and here I open its worn folds and,
except for a few trifling omissions, copy it out for you.... A few trifling omissions, I say,--just
one there is that is not trifling, but that I must needs make....

You will never see any of these letters because I shall destroy them so soon as this copy is
made. It has been difficult--or I should have destroyed them before. But some things can be
too hard for us....

This first letter is on the Martens note-paper; its very heading was familiar to me. The handwriting
of the earlier sentences is a little stiff and disjointed, and there are one or two scribbled
obliterations; it is like someone embarrassed in speaking; and then it passes into her usual
and characteristic ease....

And as I read, slowly my long-cherished anger evaporated, and the real Mary, outspoken and
simple, whom I had obscured by a cloud of fancied infidelities, returned to me....

"My dear Stephen," she begins, "About six weeks ago I saw in the Times that you have a little
daughter. It set me thinking, picturing you with a mite of a baby in your arms--what little
things they are, Stephen!--and your old face bent over it, so that presently I went to my room
and cried. It set me thinking about you so that I have at last written you this letter....
I love to think of you with wife and children about you Stephen,--I heard of your son for the
first time about a year ago, but--don't mistake me,--something wrings me too....

"Well, I too have children. Have you ever thought of me as a mother? I am. I wonder how much
you know about me now. I have two children and the youngest is just two years old. And somehow
it seems to me that now that you and I have both given such earnests of our good behavior,
such evidence that that side of life anyhow is effectually settled for us, there is no reason
remaining why we shouldn't correspond. You are my brother, Stephen, and my friend and my twin
and the core of my imagination, fifty babies cannot alter that, we can live but once and then
die, and, promise or no promise, I will not be dead any longer in your world when I'm not dead,
nor will I have you, if I can help it, a cold unanswering corpse in mine....

"Too much of my life and being, Stephen, has been buried, and I am in rebellion. This is a
breach of the tomb if you like, an irregular private premature resurrection from an interment
in error. Out of my alleged grave I poke my head and say Hello! to you. Stephen, old friend!
dear friend! how are you getting on? What is it like to you? How do you feel? I want to know
about you.... I'm not doing this at all furtively, and you can write back to me, Stephen, as
openly as your heart desires. I have told Justin I should do this. I rise, you see, blowing
my own Trump. Let the other graves do as they please....

"Your letters will be respected, Stephen.... If you choose to rise also and write me a letter.

"Stephen, I've been wanting to do this for--for all the time. If there was thought-reading
you would have had a thousand letters. But formerly I was content to submit, and latterly I've
chafed more. I think that as what they call passion has faded, the immense friendliness has
become more evident, and made the bar less and less justifiable. You and I have had so much
between us beyond what somebody the other day--it was in a report in the Times, I think--was
calling Materia Matrimoniala. And of course I hear about you from all sorts of people, and
in all sorts of ways--whatever you have done about me I've had a woman's sense of honor about
you and I've managed to learn a great deal without asking forbidden questions. I've pricked
up my ears at the faintest echo of your name.

"They say you have become a publisher with an American partner, a sort of Harmsworth and Nelson
and Times Book Club and Hooper and Jackson all rolled into one. That seems so extraordinary
to me that for that alone I should have had to write to you. I want to know the truth of that.
I never see any advertisement of Stratton & Co. or get any inkling of what it is you publish.
Are you the power behind the respectable Murgatroyd and the honest Milvain? I know them both
and neither has the slightest appearance of being animated by you. And equally perplexing is
your being mixed up with an American like that man Gidding in Peace Conferences and Social
Reform Congresses and so forth. It's so--Carnegieish. There I'm surer because I've seen your
name in reports of meetings and I've read your last two papers in the Fortnightly. I can't
imagine you of all people, with your touch of reserve, launching into movements and rubbing
shoulders with faddists. What does it mean, Stephen? I had expected to find you coming back
into English politics--speaking and writing on the lines of your old beginning, taking up that
work you dropped--it's six years now ago. I've been accumulating disappointment for two years.
Mr. Arthur, you see, on our side,"--this you will remember was in 1909--"still steers our devious
party courses, and the Tariff Reformers have still to capture us. Weston Massinghay was comparing
them the other night, at a dinner at the Clynes', to a crowded piratical galley trying to get
alongside a good seaman in rough weather. He was very funny about Leo Maxse in the poop, white
and shrieking with passion and the motion, and all the capitalists armed to the teeth and hiding
snug in the hold until the grappling-irons were fixed.... Why haven't you come into the game?
I'd hoped it if only for the sake of meeting you again. What are you doing out beyond there?

"We are in it so far as I can contrive. But I contrive very little. We are pillars of the Conservative
party--on that Justin's mind is firmly settled--and every now and then I clamor urgently that
we must do more for it. But Justin's ideas go no further than writing cheques--doing more for
the party means writing a bigger cheque--and there are moments when I feel we shall simply
bring down a peerage upon our heads and bury my ancient courtesy title under the ignominy of
a new creation. He would certainly accept it. He writes his cheque and turns back at the earliest
opportunity to his miniature gardens and the odd little freaks of collecting that attract him.
Have you ever heard of chintz oil jars? 'No,' you will say. Nor has anyone else yet except
our immediate circle of friends and a few dealers who are no doubt industriously increasing
the present scanty supply. We possess three. They are matronly shaped jars about two feet or
a yard high, of a kind of terra-cotta with wooden tops surmounted by gilt acorns, and they
have been covered with white paint and on this flowers and birds and figures from some very
rich old chintz have been stuck very cunningly, and then everything has been varnished--and
there you are. Our first and best was bought for seven-and-sixpence, brought home in the car,
put upon a console table on the second landing and worshipped. It's really a very pleasant
mellow thing to see. Nobody had ever seen the like. Guests, sycophantic people of all sorts
were taken to consider it. It was looked at with heads at every angle, one man even kept his
head erect and one went a little upstairs and looked at it under his arm. Also the most powerful
lenses have been used for a minute examination, and one expert licked the varnish and looked
extremely thoughtful and wise at me as he turned the booty over his gifted tongue. And now,
God being with us, we mean to possess every specimen in existence--before the Americans get
hold of the idea. Yesterday Justin got up and motored sixty miles to look at an alleged fourth....

"Oh my dear! I am writing chatter. You perceive I've reached the chattering stage. It is the
fated end of the clever woman in a good social position nowadays, her mind beats against her
conditions for the last time and breaks up into this carping talk, this spume of observation
and comment, this anecdotal natural history of the restraining husband, as waves burst out
their hearts in a foam upon a reef. But it isn't chatter I want to write to you.

"Stephen, I'm intolerably wretched. No creature has ever been gladder to have been born than
I was for the first five and twenty years of my life. I was full of hope and I was full, I
suppose, of vanity and rash confidence. I thought I was walking on solid earth with my head
reaching up to the clouds, and that sea and sky and all mankind were mine for the smiling.
And I am nothing and worse than nothing, I am the ineffectual mother of two children, a daughter
whom I adore--but of her I may not tell you--and a son,--a son who is too like his father for
any fury of worship, a stolid little creature.... That is all I have done in the world, a mere
blink of maternity, and my blue Persian who is scarcely two years old, has already had nine
kittens. My husband and I have never forgiven each other the indefinable wrong of not pleasing
each other; that embitters more and more; to take it out of each other is our rôle; I have
done my duty to the great new line of Justin by giving it the heir it needed, and now a polite
and silent separation has fallen between us. We hardly speak except in company. I have not
been so much married, Stephen, I find, as collected, and since our tragic misadventure--but
there were beautiful moments, Stephen, unforgettable glimpses of beauty in that--thank God,
I say impenitently for that--the door of the expensively splendid cabinet that contains me,
when it is not locked, is very discreetly--watched. I have no men friends, no social force,
no freedom to take my line. My husband is my official obstacle. We barb the limitations of
life for one another. A little while ago he sought to chasten me--to rouse me rather--through
jealousy, and made me aware indirectly but a little defiantly of a young person of artistic
gifts in whose dramatic career he was pretending a conspicuous interest. I was jealous and
roused, but scarcely in the way he desired. 'This,' I said quite cheerfully, 'means freedom
for me, Justin,'--and the young woman vanished from the visible universe with an incredible
celerity. I hope she was properly paid off and not simply made away with by a minion, but I
become more and more aware of my ignorance of a great financier's methods as I become more
and more aware of them....

"Stephen, my dear, my brother, I am intolerably unhappy. I do not know what to do with myself,
or what there is to hope for in life. I am like a prisoner in a magic cage and I do not know
the word that will release me. How is it with you? Are you unhappy beyond measure or are you
not; and if you are not, what are you doing with life? Have you found any secret that makes
living tolerable and understandable? Write to me, write to me at least and tell me that....
Please write to me.

"Do you remember how long ago you and I sat in the old Park at Burnmore, and how I kept pestering
you and asking you what is all this for? And you looked at the question as an obstinate mule
looks at a narrow bridge he could cross but doesn't want to. Well, Stephen, you've had nearly--how
many years is it now?--to get an answer ready. What is it all for? What do you make of it?
Never mind my particular case, or the case of Women with a capital W, tell me your solution.
You are active, you keep doing things, you find life worth living. Is publishing a way of peace
for the heart? I am prepared to believe even that. But justify yourself. Tell me what you have
got there to keep your soul alive."

§ 3

I read this letter to the end and looked up, and there was my home about me, a room ruddy-brown
and familiar, with the row of old pewter things upon the dresser, the steel engravings of former
Strattons that came to me from my father, a convex mirror exaggerating my upturned face. And
Rachel just risen again sat at the other end of the table, a young mother, fragile and tender-eyed.
The clash of these two systems of reality was amazing. It was as though I had not been parted
from Mary for a day, as though all that separation and all that cloud of bitter jealousy had
been a mere silence between two people in the same room. Indeed it was extraordinarily like
that, as if I had been sitting at a desk, imagining myself alone, reading my present life as
one reads in a book at a shaded lamp, and then suddenly that silent other had spoken.

And then I looked at the page of my life before me and became again a character in the story.

I met the enquiry in Rachel's eyes. "It's a letter from Mary Justin," I said.

She did not answer for a few moments. She became interested in the flame of the little spirit
lamp that kept her coffee hot. She finished what she had to do with that and then remarked,
"I thought you two were not to correspond."

"Yes," I said, putting the letter down; "that was the understanding."

There was a little interval of silence, and then I got up and went to the fireplace where the
bacon and sausages stood upon a trivet.

"I suppose," said Rachel, "she wants to hear from you again."

"She thinks that now we have children, and that she has two, we can consider what was past,
past and closed and done with, and she wants to hear--about me.... Apart from everything else--we
were very great friends."

"Of course," said Rachel with lips a little awry, "of course. You must have been great friends.
And it's natural for her to write."

"I suppose," she added, "her husband knows."

"She's told him, she says...."

Her eye fell on the letter in my hand for the smallest fraction of a second, and it was as
if hastily she snatched away a thought from my observation. I had a moment of illuminating
embarrassment. So far we had contrived to do as most young people do when they marry, we had
sought to make our lives unreservedly open to one another, we had affected an entire absence
of concealments about our movements, our thoughts. If perhaps I had been largely silent to
her about Mary it was not so much that I sought to hide things from her as that I myself sought
to forget. It is one of the things that we learn too late, the impossibility of any such rapid
and wilful coalescences of souls. But we had maintained a convention of infinite communism
since our marriage; we had shown each other our letters as a matter of course, shared the secrets
of our friends, gone everywhere together as far as we possibly could.

I wanted now to give her the letter in my hand to read--and to do so was manifestly impossible.
Something had arisen between us that made out of our unity two abruptly separated figures masked
and veiled. Here were things I knew and understood completely and that I could not even describe
to Rachel. What would she make of Mary's "Write to me. Write to me"? A mere wish to resume....
I would not risk the exposure of Mary's mind and heart and unhappiness, to her possible misinterpretation....

That letter fell indeed like a pitiless searchlight into all that region of differences ignored,
over which we had built the vaulted convention of our complete mutual understanding. In my
memory it seems to me now as though we hung silent for quite a long time over the evasions
that were there so abruptly revealed.

Then I put the letter into my pocket with a clumsy assumption of carelessness, and knelt down
to the fender and sausages.

"It will be curious," I said, "to write to her again.... To tell her about things...."

And then with immense interest, "Are these Chichester sausages you've got here, Rachel, or
some new kind?"

Rachel roused herself to respond with an equal affectation, and we made an eager conversation
about bacon and sausages--for after that startling gleam of divergence we were both anxious
to get back to the superficialities of life again.

§ 4

I did not answer Mary's letter for seven or eight days.

During that period my mind was full of her to the exclusion of every other interest. I re-read
all that she had to say many times, and with each reading the effect of her personality deepened.
It was all so intensely familiar, the flashes of insight, the blazing frankness, the quick
turns of thought, and her absurd confidence in a sort of sane stupidity that she had always
insisted upon my possessing. And her unembarrassed affectionateness. Her quick irregular writing
seemed to bring back with it the changing light in her eyes, the intonations of her voice,
something of her gesture....

I didn't go on discussing with myself whether we two ought to correspond; that problem disappeared
from my thoughts. Her challenge to me to justify myself took possession of my mind. That thrust
towards self-examination was the very essence of her ancient influence. How did I justify myself?
I was under a peculiar compulsion to answer that to her satisfaction. She had picked me up
out of my work and accumulating routines with that demand, made me look at myself and my world
again as a whole.... I had a case. I have a case. It is a case of passionate faith triumphing
over every doubt and impossibility, a case real enough to understand for those who understand,
but very difficult to state. I tried to convey it to her.

I do not remember at all clearly what I wrote to her. It has disappeared from existence. But
it was certainly a long letter. Throughout this book I have been trying to tell you the growth
of my views of life and its purpose, from my childish dreams and Harbury attitudes to those
ideas of human development that have made me undertake the work I do. It is not glorious work
I know, as the work of great artists and poets and leaders is glorious, but it is what I find
best suits my gifts and my want of gifts. Greater men will come at last to build within my
scaffoldings. In some summary phrasing I must have set out the gist of this. I must have explained
my sense of the supreme importance of mental clarification in human life. All this is manifest
in her reply. And I think too I did my best to tell her plainly the faith that was in me, and
why life seemed worth while to me....

Her second letter came after an interval of only a few days from the despatch of mine. She
began abruptly.

"I won't praise your letter or your beliefs. They are fine and large--and generous--like you.
Just a little artificial (but you will admit that), as though you had felt them give here and
there and had made up your mind they shouldn't. At times it's oddly like looking at the Alps,
the real Alps, and finding that every now and then the mountains have been eked out with a
plank and canvas Earl's Court background.... Yes, I like what you say about Faith. I believe
you are right. I wish I could--perhaps some day I shall--light up and feel you are right. But--but----
That large, respectable project, the increase of wisdom and freedom and self-knowledge in the
world, the calming of wars, the ending of economic injustice and so on and so on----

"When I read it first it was like looking at a man in profile and finding him solid and satisfactory,
and then afterwards when I thought it all over and looked for the particular things that really
matter to me and tried to translate it into myself--nothing is of the slightest importance
in the world that one cannot translate into oneself--then I began to realize just how amazingly
deficient you are. It was like walking round that person in profile and finding his left side
wasn't there--with everything perfect on the right, down to the buttons. A kind of intellectual
Lorelei--sideways. You've planned out your understandings and tolerances and enquiries and
clearings-up as if the world were all just men--or citizens--and nothing doing but racial and
national and class prejudices and the exacting and shirking of labor, and you seem to ignore
altogether that man is a sexual animal first--first, Stephen, first--that he has that in common
with all the animals, that it made him indeed because he has it more than they have--and after
that, a long way after that, he is the labor-economizing, war-and feud-making creature you
make him out to be. A long way after that....

"Man is the most sexual of all the beasts, Stephen. Half of him, womankind, rather more than
half, isn't simply human at all, it's specialized, specialized for the young, not only naturally
and physically as animals are, but mentally and artificially. Womankind isn't human, it's reduced
human. It's 'the sex' as the Victorians used to say, and from the point of view of the Lex
Julia and the point of view of Mr. Malthus, and the point of view of biologists and saints
and artists and everyone who deals in feeling and emotion--and from the point of view of all
us poor specialists, smothered up in our clothes and restrictions--the future of the sex is
the centre of the whole problem of the human future, about which you are concerned. All this
great world-state of your man's imagination is going to be wrecked by us if you ignore us,
we women are going to be the Goths and Huns of another Decline and Fall. We are going to sit
in the conspicuous places of the world and loot all your patient accumulations. We are going
to abolish your offspring and turn the princes among you into undignified slaves. Because,
you see, specialized as we are, we are not quite specialized, we are specialized under duress,
and at the first glimpse of a chance we abandon our cradles and drop our pots and pans and
go for the vast and elegant side possibilities--of our specialization. Out we come, looking
for the fun the men are having. Dress us, feed us, play with us! We'll pay you in excitement,--tremendous
excitement. The State indeed! All your little triumphs of science and economy, all your little
accumulations of wealth that you think will presently make the struggle for life an old story
and the millennium possible--we spend. And all your dreams of brotherhood!--we will set you
by the ears. We hold ourselves up as my little Christian nephews--Philip's boys--do some coveted
object, and say Quis? and the whole brotherhood shouts 'Ego!' to the challenge.... Back you
go into Individualism at the word and all your Brotherhood crumbles to dust again.

"How are you going to remedy it, how are you going to protect that Great State of your dreams
from this anti-citizenship of sex? You give no hint.

"You are planning nothing, Stephen, nothing to meet this. You are fighting with an army all
looting and undisciplined, frantic with the private jealousies that centre about us, feuds,
cuts, expulsions, revenges, and you are giving out orders for an army of saints. You treat
us as a negligible quantity, and we are about as negligible as a fire in the woodwork of a
house that is being built....

"I read what I have written, Stephen, and I perceive I have the makings of a fine scold in
me. Perhaps under happier conditions----... I should certainly have scolded you, constantly,
continually.... Never did a man so need scolding.... And like any self-respecting woman I see
that I use half my words in the wrong meanings in order to emphasize my point. Of course when
I write woman in all that has gone before I don't mean woman. It is a woman's privilege to
talk or write incomprehensibly and insist upon being understood. So that I expect you already
to understand that what I mean isn't that men are creative and unselfish and brotherly and
so forth and that women are spoiling and going to spoil the game--although and notwithstanding
that is exactly what I have written--but that humans are creative and unselfish et cetera and
so forth, and that it is their sexual, egotistical, passionate side (which is ever so much
bigger relatively in a woman than in a man, and that is why I wrote as I did) which is going
to upset your noble and beautiful apple-cart. But it is not only that by nature we are more
largely and gravely and importantly sexual than men but that men have shifted the responsibility
for attraction and passion upon us and made us pay in servitude and restriction and blame for
the common defect of the species. So that you see really I was right all along in writing of
this as though it was women when it wasn't, and I hope now it is unnecessary for me to make
my meaning clearer than it is now and always has been in this matter. And so, resuming our
discourse, Stephen, which only my sense of your invincible literalness would ever have interrupted,
what are you going to do with us?

"I gather from a hint rather than accept as a statement that you propose to give us votes.

"Stephen!--do you really think that we are going to bring anything to bear upon public affairs
worth having? I know something of the contemporary feminine intelligence. Justin makes no serious
objection to a large and various circle of women friends, and over my little sitting-room fire
in the winter and in my corners of our various gardens in the summer and in walks over the
heather at Martens and in Scotland there are great talks and confessions of love, of mental
freedom, of ambitions, and belief and unbelief--more particularly of unbelief. I have sometimes
thought of compiling a dictionary of unbelief, a great list of the things that a number of
sweet, submissive, value-above-rubies wives have told me they did not believe in. It would
amaze their husbands beyond measure. The state of mind of women about these things, Stephen,
is dreadful--I mean about all these questions--you know what I mean. The bold striving spirits
do air their views a little, and always in a way that makes one realize how badly they need
airing--but most of the nicer women are very chary of talk, they have to be drawn out, a hint
of opposition makes them start back or prevaricate, and I see them afterwards with their husbands,
pretty silken furry feathery jewelled silences. All their suppression doesn't keep them orthodox,
it only makes them furtive and crumpled and creased in their minds--in just the way that things
get crumpled and creased if they are always being shoved back into a drawer. You have only
to rout about in their minds for a bit. They pretend at first to be quite correct, and then
out comes the nasty little courage of the darkness. Sometimes there is even an apologetic titter.
They are quite emancipated, they say; I have misunderstood them. Their emancipation is like
those horrid white lizards that grow in the Kentucky caves out of the sunlight. They tell you
they don't see why they shouldn't do this or that--mean things, underhand things, cheap, vicious,
sensual things.... Are there, I wonder, the same dreadful little caverns in men? I doubt it.
And then comes a situation that really tries their quality.... Think of the quandary I got
into with you, Stephen. And for my sex I'm rather a daring person. The way in which I went
so far--and then ran away. I had a kind of excuse--in my illness. That illness! Such a queer
untimely feminine illness....

"We're all to pieces, Stephen. That's what brought down Rome. The women went to pieces then,
and the women are going to pieces to-day. What's the good of having your legions in the Grampians
and marching up to Philae, while the wives are talking treason in your houses? It's no good
telling us to go back to the Ancient Virtues. The Ancient Virtues haven't kept. The Ancient
Virtues in an advanced state of decay is what was the matter with Rome and what is the matter
with us. You can't tell a woman to go back to the spinning-wheel and the kitchen and the cradle,
when you have power-looms, French cooks, hotels, restaurants and modern nurseries. We've overflowed.
We've got to go on to a lot of New Virtues. And in all the prospect before me--I can't descry
one clear simple thing to do....

"But I'm running on. I want to know, Stephen, why you've got nothing to say about all this.
It must have been staring you in the face ever since I spent my very considerable superfluous
energies in wrecking your career. Because you know I wrecked it, Stephen. I knew I was wrecking
it and I wrecked it. I knew exactly what I was doing all the time. I had meant to be so fine
a thing for you, a mothering friend, to have that dear consecutive kindly mind of yours steadying
mine, to have seen you grow to power over men, me helping, me admiring. It was to have been
so fine. So fine! Didn't I urge you to marry Rachel, make you talk of her. Don't you remember
that? And one day when I saw you thinking of Rachel, saw a kind of pride in your eyes!--suddenly
I couldn't stand it. I went to my room after you had gone and thought of you and her until
I wanted to scream. I couldn't bear it. It was intolerable. I was violent to my toilet things.
I broke a hand-glass. Your dignified, selfish, self-controlled Mary smashed a silver hand-mirror.
I never told you that. You know what followed. I pounced on you and took you. Wasn't I--a soft
and scented hawk? Was either of us better than some creature of instinct that does what it
does because it must? It was like a gust of madness--and I cared, I found, no more for your
career than I cared for any other little thing, for honor, for Rachel, for Justin, that stood
between us....

"My dear, wasn't all that time, all that heat and hunger of desire, all that secret futility
of passion, the very essence of the situation between men and women now? We are all trying
most desperately to be human beings, to walk erect, to work together--what was your phrase?--'in
a multitudinous unity,' to share what you call a common collective thought that shall rule
mankind, and this tremendous force which seizes us and says to us: 'Make that other being yours,
bodily yours, mentally yours, wholly yours--at any price, no matter the price,' bars all our
unifications. It splits the whole world into couples watching each other. Until all our laws,
all our customs seem the servants of that. It is the passion of the body swamping the brain;
it's an ape that has seized a gun, a beautiful modern gun. Here am I, Justin's captive, and
he mine, he mine because at the first escapade of his I get my liberty. Here are we two, I
and you, barred for ever from the sight of one another, and I and you writing--I at any rate--in
spite of the ill-concealed resentment of my partner. We're just two, peeping through our bars,
of a universal multitude. Everywhere this prison of sex. Have you ever thought just all that
it means when every woman in the world goes dressed in a costume to indicate her sex, her cardinal
fact, so that she dare not even mount a bicycle in knickerbockers, she has her hair grown long
to its longest because yours is short, and everything conceivable is done to emphasize and
remind us (and you) of the fundamental trouble between us? As if there was need of reminding!
Stephen, is there no way out of this? Is there no way at all? Because if there is not, then
I had rather go back to the hareem than live as I do now imprisoned in glass--with all of life
in sight of me and none in reach. I had rather Justin beat me into submission and mental tranquillity
and that I bore him an annual--probably deciduous--child. I can understand so well now that
feminine attitude that implies, 'Well, if I must have a master, then the more master the better.'
Perhaps that is the way; that Nature will not let us poor humans get away from sex, and I am
merely--what is it?--an abnormality--with whiskers of enquiry sprouting from my mind. Yet I
don't feel like that....

"I'm pouring into these letters, Stephen, the concentrated venom of years of brooding. My heart
is black with rebellion against my lot and against the lot of woman. I have been given life
and a fine position in the world, I made one fatal blunder in marrying to make these things
secure, and now I can do nothing with it all and I have nothing to do with it. It astounds
me to think of the size of our establishments, Stephen, of the extravagant way in which whole
counties and great countries pay tribute to pile up the gigantic heap of wealth upon which
we two lead our lives of futile entanglement. In this place alone there are fourteen gardeners
and garden helps, and this is not one of our garden places. Three weeks ago I spent a thousand
pounds on clothes in one great week of shopping, and our yearly expenditure upon personal effect,
upon our magnificence and our margins cannot be greatly less than forty-five thousand pounds.
I walk about our house and gardens, I take one of the carriages or one of the automobiles and
go to some large pointless gathering of hundreds and thousands and thousands of pounds, and
we walk about and say empty little things, and the servants don't laugh at us, the butlers
don't laugh at us, the people in the street tolerate us.... It has an effect of collective
insanity.... You know the story of one of those dear Barons of the Cinque Ports--a decent plumber-body
from Rye or Winchelsea--one of the six--or eight--who claimed the privilege of carrying the
canopy over the King"--she is speaking of King Edward's coronation of course--"how that he
was discovered suddenly to be speaking quite audibly to the sacred presence so near to him:
'It is very remarkable--we should be here, your majesty--very remarkable.' And then he subsided--happily
unheard--into hopeless embarrassment. That is exactly how I feel, Stephen. I feel I can't stand
it much longer, that presently I shall splutter and spoil the procession....

"Perhaps I don't properly estimate our position in the fabric, but I can't get away from the
feeling that everything in social life leads up to this--to us,--the ridiculous canopy. If
so, then the universe means--nothing; it's blowing great forms and shapes as a swamp blows
bubbles; a little while ago it was megatheriums and plesiosauriums--if that's the name for
them--and now it is country-houses and motor-cars and coronation festivals. And in the end--it
is all nonsense, Stephen. It is utter nonsense.

"If it isn't nonsense, tell me what it is. For me at any rate it's nonsense, and for every
intelligent woman about me--for I talk to some of them, we indulge in seditious whisperings
and wit--and there isn't one who seems to have been able to get to anything solider than I
have done. Each of us has had her little fling at maternity--about as much as a washerwoman
does in her odd time every two or three years--and that is our uttermost reality. All the rest,--trimmings!
We go about the world, Stephen, dressing and meeting each other with immense ceremony, we have
our seasonal movements in relation to the ritual of politics and sport, we travel south for
the Budget and north for the grouse, we play games to amuse the men who keep us--not a woman
would play a game for its own sake--we dabble with social reform and politics, for which few
of us care a rap except as an occupation, we 'discover' artists or musicians or lecturers (as
though we cared), we try to believe in lovers or, still harder, try to believe in old or new
religions, and most of us--I don't--do our best to give the gratifications and exercise the
fascinations that are expected of us....

"Something has to be done for women, Stephen. We are the heart of life, birth and begetting,
the home where the future grows, and your schemes ignore us and slide about over the superficialities
of things. We are spoiling the whole process of progress, we are turning all the achievements
of mankind to nothingness. Men invent, create, do miracles with the world, and we translate
it all into shopping, into a glitter of dresses and households, into an immense parade of pride
and excitement. We excite men, we stir them to get us and keep us. Men turn from their ideas
of brotherhood to elaborate our separate cages....

"I am Justin's wife; not a thing in my heavens or my earth that is not subordinated to that.

"Something has to be done for women, Stephen, something--urgently--and nothing is done until
that is done, some release from their intolerable subjection to sex, so that for us everything
else in life, respect, freedom, social standing, is entirely secondary to that. But what has
to be done? We women do not know. Our efforts to know are among the most desolating of spectacles.
I read the papers of those suffrage women; the effect is more like agitated geese upon a common
than anything human has a right to be.... That's why I turn to you. Years ago I felt, and now
I know, there is about you a simplicity of mind, a foolishness of faith, that is stronger and
greater than the cleverness of any woman alive. You are one of those strange men who take high
and sweeping views--as larks soar. It isn't that you yourself are high and sweeping.... No,
but still I turn to you. In the old days I used to turn to you and shake your mind and make
you think about things you seemed too sluggish to think about without my clamor. Once do you
remember at Martens I shook you by the ears.... And when I made you think, you thought, as
I could never do. Think now--about women.

"Stephen, there are moments when it seems to me that this futility of women, this futility
of men's effort through women, is a fated futility in the very nature of things. We may be
saddled with it as we are with all the animal infirmities we have, with appendixes and suchlike
things inside of us, and the passions and rages of apes and a tail--I believe we have a tail
curled away somewhere, haven't we? Perhaps mankind is so constituted that badly as they get
along now they couldn't get along at all if they let women go free and have their own way with
life. Perhaps you can't have two sexes loose together. You must shut up one. I've a horrible
suspicion that all these anti-suffrage men like Lord Cromer and Sir Ray Lankester must know
a lot about life that I do not know. And that other man Sir Something-or-other Wright, who
said plainly that men cannot work side by side with women because they get excited.... And
yet, you know, women have had glimpses of a freedom that was not mischievous. I could have
been happy as a Lady Abbess--I must have space and dignity, Stephen--and those women had things
in their hands as no women have things in their hands to-day. They came to the House of Lords.
But they lost all that. Was there some sort of natural selection?...

"Stephen, you were made to answer my mind, and if you cannot do it nobody can. What is your
outlook for women? Are we to go back to seclusion or will it be possible to minimize sex? If
you are going to minimize sex how are you going to do it? Suppression? There is plenty of suppression
now. Increase or diminish the pains and penalties? My nephew, Philip's boy, Philip Christian,
was explaining to me the other day that if you boil water in an open bowl it just boils away,
and that if you boil it in a corked bottle it bangs everything to pieces, and you have, he
says, 'to look out.' But I feel that's a bad image. Boiling-water isn't frantically jealous,
and men and women are. But still suppose, suppose you trained people not to make such an awful
fuss about things. Now you train them to make as much fuss as possible....

"Oh bother it all, Stephen! Where's your mind in these matters? Why haven't you tackled these
things? Why do you leave it to me to dig these questions into you--like opening a reluctant
oyster? Aren't they patent? You up and answer them, Stephen--or this correspondence will become
abusive...."

§ 5

It was true that I did ignore or minimize sexual questions as much as I could. I was forced
now to think why I did this. That carried me back to those old days of passion, memories I
had never stirred for many years. And I wrote to Mary that there was indeed no reason but a
reasonable fear, that in fact I had dismissed them because they had been beyond my patience
and self-control, because I could not think very much about them without an egotistical reversion
to the bitterness of my own case. And in avoiding them I was only doing what the great bulk
of men in business and men in affairs find themselves obliged to do. They train themselves
not to think of the rights and wrongs of sexual life, not to tolerate liberties even in their
private imaginations. They know it is like carrying a torch into a powder magazine. They feel
they cannot trust their own minds beyond the experience, tested usages, and conventions of
the ages, because they know how many of those who have ventured further have been blinded by
mists and clouds of rhetoric, lost in inexplicable puzzles and wrecked disastrously. There
in those half explored and altogether unsettled hinterlands, lurk desires that sting like adders
and hatreds cruel as hell....

And then I went on--I do not clearly remember now the exact line of argument I adopted--to
urge upon her that our insoluble puzzles were not necessarily insoluble puzzles for the world
at large, that no one soldier fights anything but a partial battle, and that it wasn't an absolute
condemnation of me to declare that I went on living and working for social construction with
the cardinal riddles of social order, so far as they affected her, unsolved. Wasn't I at any
rate preparing apparatus for that huge effort at solution that mankind must ultimately make?
Wasn't this dredging out and deepening of the channels of thought about the best that we could
hope to do at the present time, seeing that to launch a keel of speculation prematurely was
only to strand oneself among hopeless reefs and confusions? Better prepare for a voyage to-morrow
than sail to destruction to-day.

Whatever I put in that forgotten part of my letter was put less strikingly than my first admissions,
and anyhow it was upon these that Mary pounced to the disregard of any other point. "There
you are," she wrote, with something like elation, "there is a tiger in the garden and you won't
talk or think about it for fear of growing excited. That is my grievance against so much historical
and political and social discussion; its hopeless futility because of its hopeless omissions.
You plan the world's future, taking the women and children for granted, with Egotistical Sex,
as you call it, a prowling monster upsetting everything you do...."

But I will not give you that particular letter in its order, nor its successors. Altogether
she wrote me twenty-two letters, and I one or two more than that number to her, and--a thing
almost inevitable in a discussion by correspondence--there is a lot of overlapping and recapitulation.
Those letters spread over a space of nearly two and a half years. Again and again she insists
upon the monstrous exaggeration of the importance of sex in human life and of the need of some
reduction of its importance, and she makes the boldest experimental suggestions for the achievement
of that end. But she comes slowly to recognize that there is a justification for an indirect
attack, that sex and the position of women do not constitute the primary problem in that bristling
system of riddles that lies like a hostile army across the path of mankind. And she realized
too that through art, through science and literature and the whole enquiring and creative side
of man's nature, lies the path by which those positions are to be outflanked, and those eternal-looking
impossibles and inconceivables overcome. Here is a fragment--saturated with the essence of
her thought. Three-quarters of her earlier letters are variations on this theme....

"What you call 'social order,' Stephen, all the arrangements seem to me to be built on subjection
to sex even more than they are built (as you say) on labor subjection. And this is an age of
release, you say it is an age of release for the workers and they know it. And so do the women.
Just as much. 'Wild hopes' indeed! The workers' hopes are nothing to the women's! It is not
only the workers who are saying let us go free, manage things differently so that we may have
our lives relieved from this intolerable burthen of constant toil, but the women also are saying
let us go free. They are demanding release just as much from their intolerable endless specialization
as females. The tramp on the roads who won't work, the swindler and the exploiter who contrive
not to work, the strikers who throw down their tools, no longer for twopences and sixpences
as you say but because their way of living is no longer tolerable to them, and we women, who
don't bear children or work or help; we are all in one movement together. We are part of the
General Strike. I have been a striker all my life. We are doing nothing--by the hundred thousand.
Your old social machine is working without us and in spite of us, it carries us along with
it and we are sand in the bearings. I'm not a wheel, Stephen, I'm grit. What you say about
the reactionaries and suppressionists who would stifle the complaints of labor and crush out
its struggles to be free, is exactly true about the reactionaries and suppressionists who would
stifle the discussion of the woman's position and crush out her hopes of emancipation...."

And here is a page of the peculiar doubt that was as characteristic of her as the quick changes
of her eyes. It gives just that pessimistic touch that tempered her valiant adventurousness,
that gave a color at last to the tragedy of her death....

"Have you ever thought, Stephen, that perhaps these (repressionist) people are righter than
you are--that if the worker gets free he won't work and that if the woman gets free she won't
furl her sex and stop disturbing things? Suppose she is wicked as a sex, suppose she will trade
on her power of exciting imaginative men. A lot of these new women run with the hare and hunt
with the hounds, beguile some poor innocent of a man to ruin them and then call in fathers,
brother, husbands, friends, chivalry, all the rest of it, and make the best of both sides of
a sex. Suppose we go on behaving like that. After we've got all our emancipations. Suppose
that the liberation of common people simply means loafing, no discipline, nothing being done,
an end to labor and the beginning of nothing to replace it, and that the liberation of women
simply means the elaboration of mischief. Suppose that it is so. Suppose you are just tumbling
the contents of the grate into the middle of the room. Then all this emancipation is a decay,
even as conservative-minded people say,--it's none the less a decay because we want it,--and
the only thing to stop it is to stop it, and to have more discipline and more suppression and
say to women and the common people: 'Back to the Sterner Virtues; Back to Servitude!' I wish
I hadn't these reactionary streaks in my thoughts, but I have and there you are...."

And then towards the second year her letters began to break away from her preoccupation with
her position as a woman and to take up new aspects of life, more general aspects of life altogether.
It had an effect not of her having exhausted the subject but as if, despairing of a direct
solution, she turned deliberately to the relief of other considerations. She ceased to question
her own life, and taking that for granted, wrote more largely of less tangible things. She
remembered that she had said that life, if it was no more than its present appearances, was
"utter nonsense." She went back to that. "One says things like that," she wrote "and not for
a moment does one believe it. I grumble at my life, I seem to be always weakly and fruitlessly
fighting my life, and I love it. I would not be willingly dead--for anything. I'd rather be
an old match-woman selling matches on a freezing night in the streets than be dead. Nothing
nonsensical ever held me so tightly or kept me so interested. I suppose really I am full of
that very same formless faith on which you rely. But with me it's not only shapeless but intangible....
I nibble at religion. I am immensely attracted. I stand in the doorway. Only when they come
out to persuade me to come in I am like a shy child and I go away. The temples beguile me and
the music, but not the men. I feel I want to join it and they say 'join us.' They are--like
vergers. Such small things! Such dreadful little arguing men! They don't let you come in, they
want you to say they are right. All the really religious people seem to be outside nowadays
and all the pretending, cheating, atheistical, vain and limited people within....

"But the beautiful things religion gives! The beauty! Do you know Saint Paul's, Stephen? Latterly
I have been there time after time. It is the most beautiful interior in all the world, so great,
so sombrely dignified, so perfectly balanced--and filled with such wonderful music, brimming
with music just as crystal water brims in a bowl of crystal. The other day I went there, up
into a little gallery high up under the dome, to hear Bach's Passion Music, the St. Matthew
Passion. One hangs high and far above the little multitudes below, the white-robed singers,
the white-robed musicians, ranks and ranks, the great organ, the rows and rows and rows of
congregation, receding this way, that way, into the haze of the aisle and the transepts, and
out of it all streams the sound and the singing, it pours up past you like a river, a river
that rushes upward to some great sea, some unknown sea. The whole place is music and singing....
I hang on to the railings, Stephen, and weep--I have to weep--and I wonder and wonder....

"One prays then as naturally as one drinks when one is thirsty and cold water comes to hand.
I don't know whom I pray to, but I pray;--of course I pray. Latterly, Stephen, I have been
reading devotional works and trying to catch that music again. I never do--definitely. Never.
But at times I put down the book and it seems to me that surely a moment ago I heard it, that
if I sit very still in a moment I shall hear it again. And I can feel it is there, I know it
is there, like a bat's cry, pitched too high for my ears. I know it is there, just as I should
still know there was poetry somewhere if some poor toothless idiot with no roof to his mouth
and no knowledge of any but the commonest words tried to read Shelley to me....

"I wish I could pray with you, Stephen; I wish I could kneel down somewhere with you of all
people and pray."

§ 6

Presently our correspondence fell away. The gaps between our letters lengthened out. We never
wrote regularly because for that there must be a free exchange upon daily happenings, and neither
of us cared to dwell too closely on our immediate lives. We had a regard for one another that
left our backgrounds vague and shadowy. She had made her appeal across the sundering silences
to me and I had answered, and we had poured out certain things from our minds. We could not
go on discussing. I was a very busy man now, and she did not write except on my replies.

For a gap of nearly four months neither of us had anything to say in a letter at all. I think
that in time our correspondence might have altogether died away. Then she wrote again in a
more familiar strain to tell me of certain definite changes of relationship and outlook. She
said that the estrangement between herself and Justin had increased during the past year; that
they were going to live practically apart; she for the most part in the Surrey house where
her two children lived with their governesses and maids. But also she meant to snatch weeks
and seasons for travel. Upon that they had been disputing for some time. "I know it is well
with the children," she wrote; "why should I be in perpetual attendance? I do nothing for them
except an occasional kiss, or half-an-hour's romping. Why should one pretend? Justin and I
have wrangled over this question of going away, for weeks, but at last feminine persistence
has won. I am going to travel in my own fashion and see the world. With periodic appearances
at his side in London and Scotland. We have agreed at least on one thing, and that is upon
a companion; she is to be my secretary in title, my moral guarantor in fact, and her name which
is her crowning glory is Stella Summersley Satchel. She is blonde, erect, huffy-mannered and
thoroughly up to both sides of her work. I partly envy her independence and rectitude--partly
only. It's odd and quite inconsistent of me that I don't envy her altogether. In theory I insist
that a woman should not have charm,--it is our undoing. But when I meet one without it----!

"I shall also trail a maid, but I guess that young woman will learn what it is to be left behind
in half the cities of Europe before I have done with her. I always lose my maids. They are
so much more passive and forgettable than luggage--abroad that is. And Justin usually in the
old days used to remember about them. And his valet used to see after them,--a most attentive
man. Justin cannot, he says, have his wife abroad with merely a companion; people would talk;
maid it must be as well. And so in a week or less I shall start, unusually tailor-made, for
South Germany and all that jolly country, companioned and maided. I shall tramp--on the feet
God has given me--in stout boots. Miss Summersley Satchel marches, I understand, like the British
infantry but on a vegetarian 'basis,'--fancy calling your nourishment a 'basis'!--the maid
and so forth by Èilgut...."

§ 7

After the letter containing that announcement she wrote to me twice again, once from Oban and
then after a long interval from Siena. The former was a scornfully minute description of the
English at their holidays and how the conversation went among the women after dinner. "They
are like a row of Japanese lanterns, all blown out long ago and swinging about in a wind,"
she wrote--an extravagant image that yet conveys something of the large, empty, unilluminating
effect of a sort of social intercourse very vividly. In the second letter she was concerned
chiefly with the natural beauty of Italy and how latterly she had thrice wept at beautiful
things, and what this mystery of beauty could be that had such power over her emotions.

"All up the hillside before the window as I write the herbage is thick with anemones. They
aren't scattered evenly and anyhow amongst the other things but in little clusters and groups
that die away and begin again, like the repetitions of an air in some musical composition.
I have been sitting and looking at them for the better part of an hour, loving them more and
then more, and the sweet sunlight that is on them and in among them.... How marvellous are
these things, Stephen! All these little exquisite things that are so abundant in the world,
the gleaming lights and blossoms, the drifting scents! At times these things bring me to weeping....
I can't help it. It is as if God who is so stern and high, so terrible to all our appeals,
took pity for a moment and saw fit to speak very softly and tenderly...."

That was the last letter I was ever to have from her.

CHAPTER THE ELEVENTH

THE LAST MEETING

§ 1

In the summer of 1911 immediately after the coronation of King George there came one of those
storms of international suspicion that ever and again threaten Europe with war. It seems to
have been brewed by some German adepts at Welt-Politik, those privileged makers of giant bombs
who sit at the ears of foreign ministers suggesting idiotic wickedness, and it was brewed with
a sublime ignorance of nearly every reality in the case. A German warship without a word of
notice seized Agadir on the Atlantic coast of Morocco, within the regions reserved to French
influence; an English demand for explanations was uncivilly disregarded and England and France
and presently Germany began vigorous preparations for war. All over the world it was supposed
that Germany had at last flung down the gauntlet. In England the war party was only too eager
to grasp what it considered to be a magnificent opportunity. Heaven knows what the Germans
had hoped or intended by their remarkable coup; the amazing thing to note is that they were
not prepared to fight, they had not even the necessary money ready and they could not get it;
they had perhaps never intended to fight, and the autumn saw the danger disperse again into
diplomatic bickerings and insincerely pacific professions. But in the high summer the danger
had not dispersed, and in common with every reasonable man I found myself under the shadow
of an impending catastrophe that would have been none the less gigantic and tragic because
it was an imbecility. It was an occasion when everyone needs must act, however trivially disproportionate
his action may be to the danger. I cabled Gidding who was in America to get together whatever
influences were available there upon the side of pacific intervention, and I set such British
organs as I could control or approach in the same direction. It seemed probable that Italy
would be drawn into any conflict that might ensue; it happened that there was to be a Conference
of Peace Societies in Milan early in September, and thither I decided to go in the not very
certain hope that out of that assemblage some form of European protest might be evolved.

That August I was very much run down. I had been staying in London through almost intolerably
hot weather to attend a Races Congress that had greatly disappointed me. I don't know particularly
now why I had been disappointed nor how far the feeling was due to my being generally run down
by the pressure of detailed work and the stress of thinking about large subjects in little
scraps of time. But I know that a kind of despair came over me as I sat and looked at that
multicolored assembly and heard in succession the heavy platitudes of white men, the slick,
thin cleverness of Hindoos, the rich-toned florid rhetoric of negroes. I lost sight of any
germ of splendid possibility in all those people, and saw all too plainly the vanity, the jealousy,
the self-interests that show up so harshly against the professions of every altruistic movement.
It seemed all such a windy business against the firm prejudices, the vast accumulated interests
that grind race against race. We had no common purpose at all at that conference, no proposal
to hold us together. So much of it was like bleating on a hillside....

I wanted a holiday badly, and then came this war crisis and I felt unable to go away for any
length of time. Even bleating it seemed to me was better than acquiescence in a crime against
humanity. So to get heart to bleat at Milan I snatched at ten days in the Swiss mountains en
route. A tour with some taciturn guide involving a few middling climbs and glacier excursions
seemed the best way of recuperating. I had never had any time for Switzerland since my first
exile there years ago. I took the advice of a man in the club whose name I now forget--if ever
I knew it, a dark man with a scar--and went up to the Schwarzegg Hut above Grindelwald, and
over the Strahlegg to the Grimsel. I had never been up into the central mass of the Bernese
Oberland before, and I was amazed and extraordinarily delighted by the vast lonely beauty of
those interminable uplands of ice. I wished I could have lingered up there. But that is the
tragedy of those sunlit desolations; one may not stay; one sees and exclaims and then looks
at a watch. I wonder no one has ever taken an arctic equipment up into that wilderness, and
had a good healing spell of lonely exaltation. I found the descent from the Strahlegg as much
of a climb as I was disposed to undertake; for an hour we were coming down frozen snow that
wasn't so much a slope as a slightly inclined precipice....

From the Grimsel I went over the Rhone glacier to the inn on the Furka Pass, and then, paying
off my guide and becoming frankly a pedestrian, I made my way round by the Schöllenen gorge
to Goeschenen, and over the Susten Joch to the Susten Pass and Stein, meaning to descend to
Meiringen.

But I still had four days before I went on to Italy, and so I decided to take one more mountain.
I slept at the Stein inn, and started in the morning to do that agreeable first mountain of
all, the Titlis, whose shining genial head attracted me. I did not think a guide necessary,
but a boy took me up by a track near Gadmen, and left me to my Siegfried map some way up the
great ridge of rocks that overlooks the Engstlen Alp. I a little overestimated my mountaineering,
and it came about that I was benighted while I was still high above the Joch Pass on my descent.
Some of this was steep and needed caution. I had to come down slowly with my folding lantern,
in which a reluctant candle went out at regular intervals, and I did not reach the little inn
at Engstlen Alp until long after eleven at night. By that time I was very tired and hungry.

They told me I was lucky to get a room, only one stood vacant; I should certainly not have
enjoyed sleeping on a billiard table after my day's work, and I ate a hearty supper, smoked
for a time, meditated emptily, and went wearily to bed.

But I could not sleep. Usually, I am a good sleeper, but ever and again when I have been working
too closely or over-exerting myself I have spells of wakefulness, and that night after perhaps
an hour's heavy slumber I became thinly alert and very weary in body and spirit, and I do not
think I slept again. The pain in my leg that the panther had torn had been revived by the day's
exertion. For the greater part of my life insomnia has not been disagreeable to me. In the
night, in the stillness, one has a kind of detachment from reality, one floats there without
light, without weight, feeling very little of one's body. One has a certain disembodiment and
one can achieve a magnanimity of thought, forgiveness and self-forgetfulness that are impossible
while the body clamors upon one's senses. But that night, because, I suppose, I was so profoundly
fatigued, I was melancholy and despondent. I could feel again the weight of the great beast
upon me as he clawed me down and I clung--desperately, in that interminable instant before
he lost his hold....

Yes, I was extraordinarily wretched that night. I was filled with self-contempt and self-disgust.
I felt that I was utterly weak and vain, and all the pretensions and effort of my life mere
florid, fruitless pretensions and nothing more. I had lost all control over my mind. Things
that had seemed secondary before became primary, difficult things became impossible things.
I had been greatly impeded and irritated in London by the manoeuvres of a number of people
who were anxious to make capital out of the crisis, self-advertising people who wanted at any
cost to be lifted into a position of unique protest.... You see, that unfortunate Nobel prize
has turned the advocacy of peace into a highly speculative profession; the qualification for
the winner is so vaguely defined that a vast multitude of voluntary idealists has been created
and a still greater number diverted from the unendowed pursuit of human welfare in other directions.
Such a man as myself who is known to command a considerable publicity is necessarily a prey
to those moral entrepreneurs. All sorts of ridiculous and petty incidents had forced this side
of public effort upon me, but hitherto I had been able to say, with a laugh or sigh as the
case warranted, "So much is dear old humanity and all of us"; and to remember the great residuum
of nobility that remained. Now that last saving consideration refused to be credible. I lay
with my body and my mind in pain thinking these people over, thinking myself over too with
the rest of my associates, thinking drearily and weakly, recalling spites, dishonesties and
vanities, feuds and absurdities, until I was near persuaded that all my dreams of wider human
understandings, of great ends beyond the immediate aims and passions of common everyday lives,
could be at best no more than the refuge of shy and weak and ineffective people from the failure
of their personal lives....

We idealists are not jolly people, not honest simple people; the strain tells upon us; even
to ourselves we are unappetizing. Aren't the burly, bellowing fellows after all righter, with
their simple natural hostility to everything foreign, their valiant hatred of everything unlike
themselves, their contempt for aspiring weakness, their beer and lush sentiment, their here-to-day-and-gone-tomorrow
conviviality and fellowship? Good fellows! While we others, lost in filmy speculations, in
moon-and-star snaring and the chase of dreams, stumble where even they walk upright....

You know I have never quite believed in myself, never quite believed in my work or my religion.
So it has always been with me and always, I suppose, will be. I know I am purblind, I know
I do not see my way clearly nor very far; I have to do with things imperfectly apprehended.
I cannot cheat my mind away from these convictions. I have a sort of hesitation of the soul
as other men have a limp in their gait. God, I suppose, has a need for lame men. God, I suppose,
has a need for blind men and fearful and doubting men, and does not intend life to be altogether
swallowed up in staring sight. Some things are to be reached best by a hearing that is not
distracted by any clearer senses. But so it is with me, and this is the innermost secret I
have to tell you.

I go valiantly for the most part I know, but despair is always near to me. In the common hours
of my life it is as near as a shark may be near a sleeper in a ship; the thin effectual plank
of my deliberate faith keeps me secure, but in these rare distresses of the darkness the plank
seems to become transparent, to be on the verge of dissolution, a sense of life as of an abyssmal
flood, full of cruelty, densely futile, blackly aimless, penetrates my defences....

I don't think I can call these stumblings from conviction unbelief; the limping man walks for
all his limping, and I go on in spite of my falls. "Though he slay me yet will I trust in him...."

I fell into an inconsecutive review of my life under this light that touched every endeavor
with the pale tints of failure. And as that flow of melancholy reflection went on, it was shot
more and more frequently with thoughts of Mary. It was not a discursive thinking about Mary
but a definite fixed direction of thought towards her. I had not so thought of her for many
years. I wanted her, I felt, to come to me and help me out of this distressful pit into which
my spirit had fallen. I believed she could. I perceived our separation as an irreparable loss.
She had a harder, clearer quality than I, a more assured courage, a readier, surer movement
of the mind. Always she had "lift" for me. And then I had a curious impression that I had heard
her voice calling my name, as one might call out in one's sleep. I dismissed it as an illusion,
and then I heard it again. So clearly that I sat up and listened--breathless....

Mixed up with all this was the intolerable uproar and talking of a little cascade not fifty
yards from the hotel. It is curious how distressing that clamor of running water, which is
so characteristic of the Alpine night, can become. At last those sounds can take the likeness
of any voice whatever. The water, I decided, had called to me, and now it mocked and laughed
at me....

The next morning I descended at some late hour by Swiss reckoning, and discovered two ladies
in the morning sunlight awaiting breakfast at a little green table. One rose slowly at the
sight of me, and stood and surveyed me with a glad amazement.

§ 2

There she stood real and solid, a little unfamiliar in her tweeds and with her shining eyes
intimate and unforgettable, as though I had never ceased to see them for all those intervening
years. And bracing us both and holding back our emotion was, quite unmistakably, Miss Summersley
Satchel, a blonde business-like young woman with a stumpy nose very cruelly corrugated and
inflamed by a pince-nez that savagely did much more than its duty by its name. She remained
seated, tilting her chair a little, pushing herself back from the table and regarding me--intelligently.

It was one of those moments in life when one is taken unawares. I think our common realization
of the need of masking the reality of our encounter, the hasty search in our minds for some
plausible face upon this meeting, must have been very obvious to the lady who observed us.
Mary's first thought was for a pseudonym. Mine was to make it plain we met by accident.

"It's Mr.--Stephen!" said Mary.

"It's you!"

"Dropped out of the sky!"

"From over there. I was benighted and go there late."

"Very late?"

"One gleam of light--and a yawning waiter. Or I should have had to break windows.... And then
I meet you!"

Then for a moment or so we were silent, with our sense of the immense gravity of this position
growing upon us. A little tow-headed waiter-boy appeared with their coffee and rolls on a tray
poised high on his hand.

"You'll have your coffee out here with us?" said Mary.

"Where else?" said I, as though there was no conceivable alternative, and told the tow-headed
waiter.

Belatedly Mary turned to introduce me to her secretary: "My friend Miss Summersley Satchel.
Mr.--Stephen." Miss Satchel and I bowed to each other and agreed that the lake was very beautiful
in the morning light. "Mr. Stephen," said Mary, in entirely unnecessary explanation, "is an
old friend of my mother's. And I haven't seen him for years. How is Mrs. Stephen--and the children?"

I answered briefly and began to tell of my climb down the Titlis. I addressed myself with unnecessary
explicitness to Miss Satchel. I did perhaps over-accentuate the extreme fortuitousness of my
appearance.... From where I stood, the whole course of the previous day after I had come over
the shoulder was visible. It seemed a soft little shining pathway to the top, but the dangers
of the descent had a romantic intensification in the morning light. "The rule of the game,"
said I, "is that one stops and waits for daylight. I wonder if anyone keeps that rule."

We talked for a time of mountains, I still standing a little aloof until my coffee came. Miss
Summersley Satchel produced that frequent and most unpleasant bye-product of a British education,
an intelligent interest in etymology. "I wonder," she said, with a brow of ruffled omniscience
and eyeing me rather severely with a magnified eye, "why it is called Titlis. There must be
some reason...."

Presently Miss Satchel was dismissed indoors on a transparent excuse and Mary and I were alone
together. We eyed one another gravely. Perhaps all the more gravely because of the wild excitement
that was quickening our pulse and breathing, and thrilling through our nerves. She pushed back
the plate before her and put her dear elbows on the table and dropped her chin between her
hands in an attitude that seemed all made of little memories.

"I suppose," she said, "something of this kind was bound to happen."

She turned her eyes to the mountains shining in the morning light. "I'm glad it has happened
in a beautiful place. It might have been--anywhere."

"Last night," I said, "I was thinking of you and wanting to hear your voice again. I thought
I did."

"I too. I wonder--if we had some dim perception...."

She scanned my face. "Stephen, you're not much changed. You're looking well.... But your eyes--they're
dog-tired eyes. Have you been working too hard?"

"A conference--what did you call them once?--a Carnegieish conference in London. Hot weather
and fussing work and endless hours of weak grey dusty speeches, and perhaps that clamber over
there yesterday was too much. It was too much. In India I damaged a leg.... I had meant to
rest here for a day."

"Well,--rest here."

"With you!"

"Why not? Now you are here."

"But---- After all, we've promised."

"It's none of our planning, Stephen."

"It seems to me I ought to go right on--so soon as breakfast is over."

She weighed that with just the same still pause, the same quiet moment of lips and eyes that
I recalled so well. It was as things had always been between us that she should make her decision
first and bring me to it.

"It isn't natural," she decided, "with the sun rising and the day still freshly beginning that
you should go or that I should go. I've wanted to meet you like this and talk about things,--ten
thousand times. And as for me Stephen I won't go. And I won't let you go if I can help it.
Not this morning, anyhow. No. Go later in the day if you will, and let us two take this one
talk that God Himself has given us. We've not planned it. It's His doing, not ours."

I sat, yielding. "I am not so sure of God's participation," I said. "But I know I am very tired,
and glad to be with you. I can't tell you how glad. So glad---- I think I should weep if I
tried to say it...."

"Three, four, five hours perhaps--even if people know. Is it so much worse than thirty minutes?
We've broken the rules already; we've been flung together; it's not our doing, Stephen. A little
while longer--adds so little to the offence and means to us----"

"Yes," I said, "but--if Justin knows?"

"He won't."

"Your companion?"

There was the briefest moment of reflection. "She's discretion itself," she said.

"Still----"

"If he's going to know the harm is done. We may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb. And
he won't know. No one will know."

"The people here."

"Nobody's here. Not a soul who matters. I doubt if they know my name.... No one ever talks to me."

I sat in the bright sunshine, profoundly enervated and quite convinced, but still maintaining
out of mere indolence a show of hesitation....

"You take the good things God sends you, Stephen--as I do. You stay and talk with me now, before
the curtain falls again. We've tired of letters. You stay and talk to me.

"Here we are, Stephen, and it's the one chance that is ever likely to come to us in all our
lives. We'll keep the point of honor; and you shall go to-day. But don't let's drive the point
of honor into the quick. Go easy Stephen, old friend.... My dear, my dear! What has happened
to you? Have you forgotten? Of course! Is it possible for you to go, mute, with so much that
we can say.... And these mountains and this sunlight!..."

I looked up to see her with her elbows on the table and her hands clasped under her chin; that
face close to mine, her dear blue eyes watching me and her lips a little apart.

No other human being has ever had that effect upon me, so that I seem to feel the life and
stir in that other body more than I feel my own.

§ 3

From the moment when I confessed my decision to stay we gave no further thought to the rightfulness
or wisdom of spending the next few hours together. We thought only of those hours. Things lent
themselves to us. We stood up and walked out in front of the hotel and there moored to a stake
at the edge of the water was a little leaky punt, the one vessel on the Engstlen See. We would
take food with us as we decided and row out there to where the vast cliffs came sheer from
the water, out of earshot or interference and talk for all the time we had. And I remember
now how Mary stood and called to Miss Satchel's window to tell her of this intention, and how
I discovered again that exquisite slender grace I knew so well.

You know the very rowing out from the shore had in it something sweet and incredible. It was
as if we were but dreaming together and might at any moment awaken again, countless miles and
a thousand things apart. I rowed slowly with those clumsy Swiss oars that one must thrust forward,
breaking the smooth crystal of the lake, and she sat sideways looking forward, saying very
little and with much the same sense I think of enchantment and unreality. And I saw now for
the first time as I watched her over my oars that her face was changed; she was graver and,
I thought, stronger than the Mary I had known.

Even now I can still doubt if that boat and lake were real. And yet I remember even minute
and irrelevant details of the day's impressions with an extraordinary and exquisite vividness.
Perhaps it is that very luminous distinctness which distinguishes these events from the common
experiences of life and puts them so above the quality of things that are ordinarily real.

We rowed slowly past a great headland and into the bay at the upper end of the water. We had
not realized at first that we could row beyond the range of the hotel windows. The rock that
comes out of the lake is a clear dead white when it is dry, and very faintly tinted, but when
it is wetted it lights warmly with flashes and blotches of color, and is seen to be full of
the most exquisite and delicate veins. It splinters vertically and goes up in cliffs, very
high and sculptured, with a quality almost of porcelain, that at a certain level suddenly become
more rude and massive and begin to overhang. Under the cliffs the water is very deep and blue-green,
and runs here and there into narrow clefts. This place where we landed was a kind of beach
left by the recession of the ice, all the rocks immediately about us were ice-worn, and the
place was paved with ice-worn boulders. Two huge bluffs put their foreheads together above
us and hid the glacier from us, but one could feel the near presence of ice in the air. Out
between them boiled a little torrent, and spread into a hundred intercommunicating channels
amidst the great pebbles. And those pebbles were covered by a network of marvellously gnarled
and twisted stems bearing little leaves and blossoms, a network at once very ancient and very
fresh, giving a peculiar gentleness and richness to the Alpine severity that had dwarfed and
tangled them. It was astounding that any plant could find nourishment among those stones. The
great headland, with patches of yellowish old snow still lingering here and there upon its
upper masses, had crept insensibly between us and the remote hotel and now hid it altogether.
There was nothing to remind us of the world that had separated us, except that old and leaky
boat we had drawn up upon the stones at the limpid water's edge.

"It is as if we had come out of life together," she whispered, giving a voice to my thought.

She sat down upon a boulder and I sat on a lower slab a yard or so away, and we looked at one
another. "It's still unreal," she said.

I felt awkward and at a loss as I sat there before her, as a man unused to drawing-rooms might
feel in the presence of a strange hostess.

"You are so you," I said; "so altogether my nearest thing--and so strange too, so far off,
that I feel--shy....

"I'm shy," I repeated. "I feel that if I speak loudly all this will vanish...."

I looked about me. "But surely this is the most beautiful place in the whole world! Is it indeed
in the world?"

"Stephen, my dear," she began presently, "what a strange thing life is! Strange! The disproportions!
The things that will not fit together. The little things that eat us up, and the beautiful
things that might save us and don't save us, don't seem indeed to have any meaning in regard
to ordinary sensible affairs.... This beauty....

"Do you remember, Stephen, how long ago in the old park you and I talked about immortality
and you said then you did not want to know anything of what comes after life. Even now do you
want to know? You are too busy and I am not busy enough. I want to be sure, not only to know,
but to know that it is so, that this life--no, not this life, but that life, is only the bleak
twilight of the morning. I think death--just dead death--after the life I have had is the most
impossible of ends.... You don't want--particularly? I want to passionately. I want to live
again--out of this body, Stephen, and all that it carves with it, to be free--as beautiful
things are free. To be free as this is free--an exquisite clean freedom....

"I can't believe that the life of this earth is all that there is for us--or why should we
ever think it strange? Why should we still find the ordinary matter-of-fact things of everyday
strange? We do--because they aren't--us.... Eating. Stuffing into ourselves thin slices of
what were queer little hot and eager beasts.... The perpetual need to do such things. And all
the mad fury of sex, Stephen!... We don't live, we suffocate in our living bodies. They storm
and rage and snatch; it isn't us, Stephen, really. It can't be us. It's all so excessive--if
it is anything more than the first furious rush into existence of beings that will go on--go
on at last to quite beautiful real things. Like this perhaps. To-day the world is beautiful
indeed with the sun shining and love shining and you, my dear, so near to me.... It's so incredible
that you and I must part to-day. It's as if--someone told me the sun was a little mad. It's
so perfectly natural to be with you again...."

Her voice sank. She leant a little forward towards me. "Stephen, suppose that you and I were
dead to-day. Suppose that when you imagined you were climbing yesterday, you died. Suppose
that yesterday you died and that you just thought you were still climbing as you made your
way to me. Perhaps you are dead up there on the mountain and I am lying dead in my room in
this hotel, and this is the Great Beginning....

"Stephen, I am talking nonsense because I am so happy to be with you here...."

§ 4

For a time we said very little. Then irregularly, disconnectedly, we began to tell each other
things about ourselves.

The substance of our lives seemed strangely objective that day; we had as it were come to one
another clean out of our common conditions. She told me of her troubles and her secret weaknesses;
we bared our spirits and confessed. Both of us had the same tale of mean and angry and hasty
impulses, both of us could find kindred inconsistencies, both had an exalted assurance that
the other would understand completely and forgive and love. She talked for the most part, she
talked much more than I, with a sort of wonder at the things that had happened to her, and
for long spaces we did not talk at all nor feel the need of talking, and what seems very strange
to me now, seeing that we had been impassioned lovers, we never kissed; we never kissed at
all; I do not even remember that I thought of kissing her. We had a shyness between us that
kept us a little apart, and I cannot remember that we ever touched one another except that
for a time she took me and led me by the hand towards a little place of starry flowers that
had drawn her eyes and which she wished me to see. Already for us two our bodies were dead
and gone. We were shy, shy of any contact, we were a little afraid of one another, there was
a kind of awe between us that we had met again.

And in that strange and beautiful place her fancy that we were dead together had a fitness
that I cannot possibly convey to you. I cannot give you by any writing the light and the sweet
freshness of that high desolation. You would need to go there. What was lovely in our talk,
being said in that setting, would seem but a rambling discourse were I to write it down,--as
I believe that even now I could write it down--word for word almost, every thought of it, so
fresh does it remain with me....

My dear, some moments are eternal. It seems to me that as I write to tell you of this I am
telling you not of something that happened two years ago but of a thing immortal. It is as
if I and Mary were together there holding the realities of our lives before us as though they
were little sorry tales written in books upon our knees....

§ 5

It was still in the early afternoon that we came down again across the meandering ice-water
streams to our old boat, and pushed off and rowed slowly out of that magic corner back to every-day
again....

Little we knew to what it was we rowed.

As we glided across the water and rounded the headland and came slowly into view of the hotel
again, Mary was reminded of our parting and for a little while she was disposed to make me
remain. "If you could stay a little longer," she said,--"Another day? If any harm is done,
it's done."

"It has been beautiful," I said, "this meeting. It's just as if--when I was so jaded and discouraged
that I could have put my work aside and despaired altogether,--some power had said, 'Have you
forgotten the friendship I gave you?' ... But we shall have had our time. We've met,--we've
seen one another, we've heard one another. We've hurt no one...."

"You will go?"

"To-day. Before sunset. Isn't it right that I should go?"

"Stay," she whispered, with a light in her eyes.

"No. I dare not."

She did not speak for a long time.

"Of course," she said at last, "you're right. You only said--I would have said it for you if
you had not. You're so right, Stephen.... I suppose, poor silly little things, that if you
stayed we should certainly begin making love to each other. It would be--necessary. We should
fence about a little and then there it would be. No barrier--to stop us. And neither of us
wants it to happen. It isn't what we want. You would become urgent, I suppose, and I should
be--coquettish. In spite of ourselves that power would make us puppets. As if already we hadn't
made love.... I could find it in my heart now.... Stephen I could make you stay....

"Oh! Why are we so tormented, Stephen? In the next world we shall meet, and this will trouble
us no longer. The love will be there--oh, the love will be there, like something that has at
last got itself fully born, got itself free from some queer clinging seed-case....

"We shall be rid of jealousy, Stephen, that inflammation of the mind, that bitterness, that
pitiless sore, so that I shan't be tormented by the thought of Rachel and she will be able
to tolerate me. She was so sweet and wonderful a girl--with those dark eyes. And I've never
done her justice--never. Nor she me. I snatched you from her. I snatched you....

"Someday we shall be different.... All this putting oneself round another person like a fence,
against everyone else, almost against everything else; it's so wicked, so fierce.

"It's so possible to be different. Sometimes now, sometimes for long parts of a day I have
no base passions at all--even in this life. To be like that always! But I can't see clearly
how these things can be; one dreams of them in a kind of luminous mist, and if one looks directly
at them, they vanish again...."

§ 6

And at last we came to the landing, and moored the little boat and walked up the winding path
to the hotel. The dull pain of separation was already upon us.

I think we had forgotten Miss Summersley Satchel altogether. But she appeared as we sat down
to tea at that same table at which we had breakfasted, and joined us as a matter of course.
Conceivably she found the two animated friends of the morning had become rather taciturn. Indeed
there came a lapse of silence so portentous that I roused myself to effort and told her, all
over again, as I realized afterwards, the difficulties that had benighted me upon Titlis. Then
Miss Satchel regaled Mary with some particulars of the various comings and goings of the hotel.
I became anxious to end this tension and went into the inn to pay my bill and get my knapsack.
When I came out Mary stood up.

