THE GROWTH OF THOUGHT AS AFFECTING THE PROGRESS OF SOCIETY.

By William Withington.

1851.

Contents.

Part I. Introductory.

Life Defined.  Intellectual Culture and Intellectual Life, Distinguished.  Human Life, a Problem.
The Evil to be Managed. Self-Love Considered under a Three-fold Aspect.  Three Agencies for
meliorating the Human Condition.  The Growth of Thought, Slow; and oft most in unexpected quarter.

Part II.

Welfare as dependent on the Social Institutions.  Limited Aim of the Received Political Economy.
An Enlightened Policy but the Effective Aim at managing Self-Love, directed towards Present
Goods, vulgarly understood.  The Political Fault of the Papacy.  Its Substantial Correction
by the Reformation.  Republicanism carried from Religion into Legislation; still without a
clear perception of its Principle. Its Progress accordingly Slow.

Part III.

Philosophy the Second Agency for promoting General Welfare, as the Educator of Self-Love; the
Corrector of mistaken apprehensions of Temporal Good; the Revealer of the ties which bind the
Members of the Human Family to One Lot, to suffer or rejoice together.  Progress in estimating
Life.

Part IV.

Mightier Influences yet needed, to contend with the Powers of Evil. Supplied by Man's recognizing
the whole of his Being; the extent of his Duties; the Duration of his Existence.  Religion,
supplying the defects of the preceding Agencies; Considered in nine particulars.

Conclusion.

Recapitulation.  Suggestions to Christian Ministers.

Preface.

A contemporary thus reveals the state of mind, through which he has come to the persuasion
of great insight into the realities, which stand behind the veil: "What more natural, more
spontaneous, more imperative, than that the conditions of his future being should press themselves
on his anxious thought!  Should we not suppose, the 'every third thought would be his grave,'
together with the momentous realities that lie beyond it?  If man is indeed, as Shakespeare
describes him, 'a being of large discourse, looking before and after,' we could scarcely resist
the belief, that, when once assured of the possibility of information on his head, he would,
as it were, rush to the oracle, to have his absorbing problems solved, and his restless heart
relieved of its load of uncertain forebodings."* [Bush's Statement of Reasons, &c., p. 12.]

Not less frequently or intensely, the writer's mind has turned to the problem of applying know
truth to the present, reconciling self-love with justice and benevolence, and vindicating to
godliness, the promise of the life that now is.  If, meanwhile, he has been "intruding into
those things which he hath not seen," like affecting an angelic religion,--then it were hardly
possible but that he should mistake fancy for fact.  But if his inquiries have been into what
it is given to know, then he cannot resist the belief, that some may derive profit from the
results of many fearfully anxious years, here compressed within a few pages.  He might have
further compressed, just saying: Mainly, political wisdom is the management of self-love; civilization
is the cultivation of self-love; the excrescenses of civilization are the false refinements
of self-love; while unselfish love is substantial virtue,--the end of the commandments,--the
fulfilling of the law: Or, he might have enlarged indefinitely; more especially might have
been written on practically applying the principles to the advancement of society.  He may
yet produce something of the kind.  Of the substance of the following pages he has only to
say, that, if false, the falsehood has probably become too much a part of his nature to be
ever separated.  As to such minor considerations, as logical arrangement and the niceties of
style, he asks only the criticism due to one, whose hands have been necessitated to guide the
plough oftener than the pen, through the best years of life.

The Growth of Thought, As Affecting the Progress of Society.

Part I.

Introductory.

The meditation on human life--on the contrast between what is, and what might be, on supposing
a general concurrence to make the best of things-yields emotions both painful and pleasing;--painful
for the demonstrations every where presented, of a love of darkness, rather than light; pleasing,
that the worst evils are seen to be so remediable; and so clear the proofs of a gradual, but
sure progress towards the remedy.

The writer is not very familiar with those authors, who have so much to say on the problem
of life--the question, What is life?  He supposes them to follow a train of thought, something
like this: The life of a creature is that perfection and flourish of its faculties, of which
its constitution is capable, and which some of the race are destined to reach.  Thus, the life
of the lion is realized, when the animal ranges undisputed lord of the sunny desert; finds
sufficiency of prey for himself and offspring, which he raises to inherit dominion; lives the
number of years he is capable of enjoying existence, and then closes it, without excessive
pains, lingering regrets, or fearful anticipations.

Life differs from happiness.  It is supposable, that the lion, tamed and petted, trained to
feed somewhat after man's chosen manner, may be as happy as if at liberty in his native range.
But such happiness is not the animal's life; since this implies the kind of happiness proper
to the creature's constitution, in distinction from that induced by forced habits.

To happiness add knowledge and intellectual culture, and all together do not realize the idea
of life.  The tame lion may be taught many arts, assimilating him to the intelligence of man;
but these remove him so much further from his appropriate life.  Thus there may be a cultivated
intelligence, which constitutes no part of the creature's life; and this without considering
the same as a moral agent.

Macauley remarks, that the Jesuits seem to have solved the problem, how far intellectual culture
may be carried, without producing intellectual emancipation.  I suppose it would be only varying
the expression of his thought to say, Jesuitical education strikingly exemplifies, how much
intellectual culture may be superinduced upon the mind, without awakening intellectual life--without
developing a spontaneous aptness to appreciate, seek, find, embrace the truth.  The head is
filled with the thoughts of others-many ascertained facts and just conclusions.  It can reason
aright in the circles of thought, where it has been trained to move; but elsewhere, no spontaneous
activity--no self-directed power of thinking justly on new emergencies and questions not yet
settled by rule--no spring within, from which living waters flow.

The difference between intellectual culture and intellectual life appears in the fact, that
in regard to those mastering ideas, which to after times mark one age as in advance of the
preceding, the classical scholars, the scientific luminaries, the constitutional expounders
of the day, are quite as likely to be behind the general sense of the age, as to be in advance.

The question, What is human life? arises on a contemplation like this: There is no difficulty
in determining the life of all the other tenants of earth; unless, indeed, those which man
has so long and so universally subjected to his purposes, that the whereabouts, or indeed the
existence of the original stock, remains in doubt.  The inferior animals, left to themselves
in favorable circumstances, manifest one development, attain to one flourish, live the same
life, from generation to generation.  Man may superinduce upon them what he calls improvements,
because they better fit them for his purposes. But said improvements are never transmitted
from generation to its successor; left to itself, the race reverts to proper life, the same
it has lived from the beginning.

Man here presents a singular exception to the general rule of earth's inhabitants.  The favorite
pursuits of one age are abandoned in the next.  This generation looks back on the earnest occupations
of a preceding, as the adult looks back on the sports and toys of childhood. It is more than
supposable, that the planning for the chances of office, the competition for making most gain
out of the least productiveness--these earnest pursuits of the men of this age--in the next
will be resigned to the children of larger growth; just as are now resigned the trappings of
military glory.  Where then is the human mind ultimately to fix?  Where is man to find so essentially
his good, as to fix his earnest pursuit in one direction, in which the race is still to hold
on?  Such seems to be the question, What is life?

The elements of that darkness, which excludes the light of life, may be considered as these
three: First, the excessive preponderance of self-love, as the ruling motive of human conduct.
Secondly, the short-sightedness of self-love, in magnifying the present, at the cost of the
distant future.  And, Thirdly, the grossness of self-love, in preferring of present goods the
vulgar and the sensible, to the refined and more exquisitely satisfactory.  And there are three
ways, in which we may attempt the abatement of existing evils; or, there are three agencies
we may call in for this purpose.

In the first place, leaving individuals to the operation of the common motives, we may labor
at the social institutions, to adjust them to the rule, that, each seeking his own, after the
common apprehension of present interests, may do so consistently with acting the part of a
good citizen--contributing something to the general welfare; or, at least, not greatly detracting
therefrom.  Here, the agency employed, the Greeks would have called by a name, from which we
have derived the word politics; which word, from abuse, has well nigh lost its original sense,
The science of social welfare.  Policy, we might say, for want of an exacter word.

The second way, in which we may seek the same result, is, to inculcate juster apprehensions
of present good--to inform and refine self-love; to show, that the purest of present enjoyments,
are like the loaves and fishes distributed by divine hands, multiplying by division and participation--the
best of all being such as none can enjoy fully, till they become the common property of the
race.  For want of a more accurately defined term, the agent here introduced may be called
Philosophy; understanding by the term, the search, what would be the conduct and preferences
of a truly wise man, dispassionately seeking for himself the best enjoyment of this life, uninformed
of another to follow.

Or, thirdly, we may seek to infuse a nobler principle than self-love, however refined--even
the charity, whose essence is, to love one's neighbor as one's self; while, at the same time,
this life being earnestly contemplated as but the introductory part of an immense whole, additional
security is provided for the coincidence of interest with duty.  In a word, the third agency
to be employed is Religion.

The whole subject thus sketched is one of which the writer is not aware, that it has been distinctly
defined, as a field for thought and investigation.  He has little to learn from the successes
or the failures of predecessors.  Be this his excuse for seeming prosy and dull; possibly for
mistakes and crudities.  He has the doubly difficulty of attempting to turn thought into trains
to which it is not accustomed; and yet of offering no results so profound as to have escaped
other observers; or so sublime as to be the due prize of genius, venturing where few can soar.
If he offers any thoughts new, just, and important, they have rather been overlooked for their
simplicity and obviousness.  One may dive too deep for that which floats on the surface.  Here
are to be expected none of the splendid results, which dazzle in the popular sciences.  The
cultivator of this field can hope only to favor, imperceptibly it may be, the growth of thoughts
and sentiments, tending slowly to work out a better condition of the human family.  And he
begs to commend that advice of Lacon, which himself has found so profitable: "In the pursuit
of knowledge, follow it, wherever it is to be found; like fern, it is the produce of all climates;
and like coin, its circulation is not restricted to any particular class. * * * * Pride is
less ashamed of being ignorant, than of being instructed; and she looks too high to find that,
which very often lies beneath her.  Therefore condescend to men of low estate, and be for wisdom,
that which Alcibiades was for power."  (Vol. I., p. 122.)

The difficulty with us Americans, in the way of being instructed, has been, that too proud,
as if already possessed of the fullness of political wisdom, we have withal cherished a self-distrust,
forbidding us to harmonize our institutions and modes of thinking into conformity with our
work and altered situation.  We have seen the British nation, choosing by the accident of birth
a baby for its future sovereign, and training it in a way the least possible calculated to
favor relations of acquaintance and sympathy with varied wants of the many; and our first impression,
I fear, has been our last: What drivellers! Obstinately blind to the clearest lights of common
sense!  Whereas wiser for us would it be, to derive from the spectacle these general conclusion:
that hard is it for the human mind to proceed in advance of ideas received and fashionable;
that the so-called independent and original thinkers--leaders of public sentiment-are such
as anticipate by a little the general progress of thought, as our hill-tops catch first by
a little the beams of the rising sun, before they fill the intervening valleys; that men's
superiority in profound thought or liberal ideas, in one direction, affords no security for
their attaining to mediocrity in others; and that one familiar with the history of thought,
may pronounce, with moral certainty, that such and such ideas were never entertained in such
or such society, where due preparation did not exist.  As we may confidently say, No mountain-top
can tower high enough, to catch the sunbeams at midnight; with equal confidence we may say
of many ideas now familiar as school-boy truths: no intellect in ancient Greece or Rome soared
high enough above the mass to grasp them.

Part II.

Welfare as Dependent on Policy.

