Transcriber's note:

   Obvious printer's errors have been corrected. Hyphenation
   and accentuation have been made consistent. All other
   inconsistencies are as in the original. The author's
   spelling has been retained.

   [=x] denotes macron above the letter x.

   Text in italics is enclosed by underscores (italics).

VOCAL EXPRESSION

A Class-Book of Voice Training and Interpretation

by

KATHERINE JEWELL EVERTS

Author of "The Speaking Voice"

Harper & Brothers New York and London MCMXI

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS BY

KATHERINE JEWEL EVERTS

VOCAL EXPRESSION net $1.00

THE SPEAKING VOICE. Post 8vo net 1.00

HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK

COPYRIGHT, 1911, BY HARPER & BROTHERS

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

PUBLISHED NOVEMBER, 1911

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAN OF THE BOOK

TO THE PUPIL

INTRODUCTION

PART I

STUDIES IN VOCAL INTERPRETATION

PRELIMINARY STUDY:--To Establish a Conscious Purpose.

  DISCUSSION:--The Relation of the Speaker to His
       Audience.

  MATERIAL:--Direct Appeal in Prose and Verse, with
         Suggestive Analysis.

  SELECTIONS FOR INTERPRETATION.

FIRST STUDY:--To Establish Vitality in Thinking.

  DISCUSSION:--Action of the Mind in Reading Aloud.

  MATERIAL:--The Essay and Didactic Poetry, with
        Suggestive Analysis.

  SELECTIONS FOR INTERPRETATION.

SECOND STUDY:--To Establish Intelligence in Feeling.

  DISCUSSION:--Emotional Response and Abandon.

  MATERIAL:--Lyric Poetry, with Suggestive Analysis.

  SELECTIONS FOR INTERPRETATION.

THIRD STUDY:--To Develop the Whimsical Sense.

  DISCUSSION:--Humor and Fancy.

  MATERIAL:--Fairy Story, Fable, and Nonsense
        Rhyme, with Suggestive Analysis.

  SELECTIONS FOR INTERPRETATION.

FOURTH STUDY:--To Develop Imaginative Vigor.

  DISCUSSION:--The Picture, the Atmosphere, the
        Action.

  MATERIAL:--Short Story and Epic Poetry, with
        Suggestive Analysis.

  SELECTIONS FOR INTERPRETATION.

FIFTH STUDY:--To Develop Dramatic Instinct.

  DISCUSSION:--Impersonation and Characterization.

  MATERIAL:--Monologue and Play, with Suggestive
        Analysis.

  SELECTIONS FOR INTERPRETATION.

PART II

STUDIES IN VOCAL EXPRESSION

INTRODUCTORY DISCUSSION:--The Vocal Vocabulary.

  STUDY IN PAUSE AND CHANGE OF PITCH.

  STUDY IN INFLECTION.

  STUDY IN TONE COLOR.

PART III

STUDIES IN VOCAL TECHNIQUE

INTRODUCTORY DISCUSSION:--Tuning the Instrument.

  HOW TO SUPPORT THE TONE.
    Directions and Exercises.

  HOW TO FREE THE TONE.
    Directions and Exercises.

  HOW TO RE-ENFORCE THE TONE.
    Directions and Exercises.

TO THE PUPIL

Let me trace the evolution which has led to the plan of this text-book. A class in elocution
of which you are a member is given a paragraph from Modern Eloquence, a bit from an oration
or address of Beecher or Phillips or Beveridge, to study. The passage appeals to you. You are
roused by it to an eager, new appreciation of courage, conservatism or of the character of
some national hero. You "look" your interest. You are asked to go to the platform. You are
glad. You want to repeat the inspired word of the prophet. You begin confidently to voice the
words of the great orator--the words which you had lifted alive from the page--but in your
voice they sound now formal, cold, lifeless. You hesitate, your emotion is killed, your thought
inhibited, your eagerness gone, your impulse dead--but you have made a discovery. You have
become conscious of a great need, and your teacher, if she be wise, has discovered the nature
of that need. You consult together and find three things have failed you, and, through you,
the orator you wished to interpret. These things are your mind, your vocabulary, and your voice.
You find that your need is threefold--it is the need to feel intelligently and to think vitally
on your feet; the need to acquire a vocal vocabulary; the need to train your instruments of
expression--voice and body.

To help you and your teacher to meet this threefold need is the wish of this book; and the
book's plan is the result of the author's experience with her own pupils in watching the evolution
of their skill in vocal expression, the development, along natural lines, of their ability
to speak effectively.

VOCAL EXPRESSION

INTRODUCTION

The strongest impulse of the human heart is for self-expression. The simplest form of expression
is speech. Speech is the instinctive use of a natural instrument, the voice. The failure to
deal justly with this simple and natural means of expression is one of the serious failures
of our educational system. Whether the student is to wait on another's table or be host at
his own; whether he is to sell "goods" from one side of a counter or buy them from the other;
whether he is to enter one of the three great professions of law, medicine, or theology; "go
on the stage" or platform; become Minister to France or President of the United States, it
remains precisely true that to speak effectively will be essential to his success, and should
be as essential to his own happiness as it will be to that of all involved in his pursuit of
success.

Yet, if we give heed at all to the question of voice and speech, it is our last, not our first,
consideration. We still look upon the mind as a storehouse instead of a clearing-house. We
continue to concern ourselves with its ability to take in, not its capacity to give out. Voice
and speech are still left to shift for themselves during the period of school life when they
should be guarded and guided as a most essential equipment for life after school days are over.
To convert the resultant hard, high-pitched, nasal tone which betrays the American voice into
the adequate agent of a temperament which distinguishes the American personality, and to help
English speech in this country to become an efficient medium of lucid intercourse, such is
the object of this book.

In an address upon the "Question of Our Speech" delivered before a graduating class at Bryn
Mawr, several years ago, Mr. Henry James said:

"No civilized body of men and women has ever left so vital an interest to run wild, to shift,
as we say, all for itself, to stumble and flounder, through mere adventure and accident, in
the common dust of life, to pick up a living, in fine, by the wayside and the ditch.

"The French, the Germans, the Italians, the English, perhaps, in particular, and many other
people, Occidental and Oriental, I surmise, not excluding the Turks and the Chinese, have for
the symbol of education, of civility, a tone-standard; we alone flourish in undisturbed and
in something like sublime unconsciousness of any such possibility."

So searching an arraignment by so eminent a scholar before an audience of so high a degree
of intelligence and culture seems to have been necessary to command an adequate appreciation
of the condition of "Our Speech" and to incite an adequate effort toward reform. Since the
arraignment was made and afterward published, classes have been organized, books written, and
lectures delivered in increasing abundance, forming a veritable speech crusade--and the books
and the classes and the lectures have availed much, but the real and only "reliable remedy"
lies with the teacher in the public and private schools and colleges of the United States.
And it is to the teacher of English and Elocution that this Class Book on Vocal Expression
is offered.

Learning to Talk might have been a truer, as it had been a simpler, title, yet the more comprehensive
phrase has justifiable significance, and we have chosen it in the same spirit which discards
for the text-book in Rhetoric or English Composition the inviting title Learning to Write.

There is a close analogy between the evolution of vocal and the evolution of verbal expression.
The method of instruction in the study of the less heeded subject of the "Spoken Word" throws
an interesting light on the teaching of the more regarded question of the "Written Word." An
experience as teacher of expression and English in a normal school in Minnesota has influenced
the author of these pages to so large an extent in the formulation of her own method of study,
and so in the plan of this volume, that it seems advisable to record it. To the work of reading
or expression to which she was originally called two classes in composition were added. The
former teacher of composition had bequeathed to the work as a text-book a rhetoric which consisted
of involved theory plus one hundred and twenty-five separate and distinct rules for the use
of words, and the teacher of expression found, to her amazed dismay, that the students had
been required to learn these rules, not only "by heart," but by number, referring to them as
rule six or thirty-six or one hundred and twenty-five, according to the demanded application.

A week, possibly a fortnight, passed in silent struggle, then the distracted teacher of expression
went to the president of the school with these questions: "Of what avail are one hundred and
twenty-five rules for the use of words when these children have less than that number of words
to use, and no desire to acquire more? Could you make teachers of these normal students by
giving a hundred and more laws for the governing of pupils and the imparting of the material
of knowledge, if you furnished neither pupils nor material upon which to test the laws?" "Certainly
not!" was the restful reply of one of the wisest of the educators I have known. "May I lay
aside the text-book and read with these students in English for a little?" "You may teach them
to write English in any way you can!"

The next day the class in composition was discovered eagerly reading Tennyson's Holy Grail,
stopping to note this felicitous phrase, that happy choice of words, the pertinent personnel
of a sentence or paragraph. The first examination of the term consisted in a series of single
questions, written on separate slips of paper and laid face down on the teacher's desk. Each
student took one of these slips which read, "Tell in your own words the story of The Coming
of Arthur, the Holy Grail, Lancelot and Elaine or Guinevere," as the chance of the chooser
might allot a given idyl. The experiment was a success. The president was satisfied with the
papers in English composition. Each student had had "something to say" and had said it. Each
student had words at his command little dreamed of in his vocabulary before the meeting with
the Knights of the Round Table.

The first step toward a mastery of Verbal Expression had been successfully taken! The consciousness
of need--the need of a vocabulary--had been awakened. The desire to supply that need--to acquire
a vocabulary--had been aroused. A way to acquire a vocabulary had been made manifest. Out of
such consciousness alone is born the willingness to work upon which progress in the mastery
of any art depends. To the teacher of expression it seemed no more advisable now than it had
seemed before, to ask the students to learn either "by heart" or by number the one hundred
and twenty-five rules of technique. But the great laws governing the use of a vocabulary she
now found her students eager to study, to understand, and to apply. She found her class willing
to enter upon the drudgery which a mastery of technique in any art demands.

So in the teaching of Vocal Expression, he who begins with rules for the use of this change
of pitch or that inflection, this pause or that color of tone, before he has aroused in the
pupil the desire to express a vivid thought, and so made him conscious of the need to command
subtle changes of pitch, swift contrasts in tone and turns of inflection, will find himself
responsible for mechanical results sadly divorced from true and natural speech. But let the
teacher of expression begin, not with rules of technique, but with the material for inspiration
and interpretation; let him rouse in the pupil the impulse to express and then furnish the
material and means for study which shall enrich the vocabulary of expression and he will find
the instruments of the art--voice and speech--growing into the free and efficient agents of
personality they are intended by nature to be.

       *       *       *       *       *

In March, 1906, the editor of Harper's Bazar began a crusade in the interest of the American
voice and speech. Through the issues of more than a year the magazine published arraignment,
admonition, and advice on this subject. It was the privilege of the author of this volume to
contribute the last four articles in that series. In response to a definite demand from the
readers of the Bazar these articles were later embodied in a little book called The Speaking
Voice. In a preface to this book the author confesses her "deliberate effort to simplify and
condense the principles fundamental to all recognized systems of vocal instruction," making
them available for those too occupied to enter upon the more exhaustive study set forth in
more elaborate treatises. The book was not intended for hours of class-room work in schools
or colleges, but for the spare moments of a business or social life, and its reception in that
world was gratifying. But, to the author's delight, the interest aroused created a demand in
the schools and colleges for a real text-book, a book which could be put into the hands of
students in the departments of English and expression in public and private institutions and
colleges, and especially in normal schools. It is in response to that appeal that this class-book
in Vocal Expression is issued; and it is to the teachers whose impelling interest and enthusiasm
in the subject justify the publication of this volume that the author desires first to express
her grateful appreciation.

To Miss Frances Nash, of the Lincoln High School in Cleveland, for her invaluable advice in
determining the exact nature of the need which the book must meet, and for her assistance in
choosing the material for interpretation, my gratitude and appreciation are especially due.

To others whose influence through books or personal instruction has made
this task possible, acknowledgment made in The Speaking Voice is
reiterated. He must have in his nature that kindly sympathy that
     connects him with his fellow-men and which so makes him a part of
     the audience that his smile is their smile, his tear is their tear,
     the throb of his heart the throb of the hearts of the whole
     assembly."--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

We have said that whatever part in the world's life we choose or are chosen to take, it remains
precisely true that to speak effectively is essential to fulfilling, in the highest sense,
that function. Whether the occupation upon which we enter be distinguished by the title of
cash-girl or counsellor at law; dish-washer or débutante; stable-boy or statesman; artist in
the least or the highest of art's capacities, crises will arise in that calling which demand
a command of effective speech. The situation may call for a slow, quietly searching interrogation
or a swift, ringing command. The need may be for a use of that expressive vocal form which
requires, to be efficient, the rugged or the gracious elements of your vocabulary; the vital
or the velvet tone; the straight inflection or the circumflex; the salient or the slight change
of pitch; the long or the short pause. Whatever form the demand takes, the need remains for
command of the efficient elements of tone and speech if we are to become masters of the situation
and to attain success in our calling. How to acquire this mastery is our problem. How to take
the first step toward acquiring that command is the subject of this first study.

Is there a student reader of these pages who has not already faced a situation requiring for
its mastery such command? Listen to Mr. James again:

"All life, therefore, comes back to the question of our speech, the medium through which we
communicate with each other; for all life comes back to the question of our relations with
each other. These relations are possible, are registered, are verily constituted by our speech,
and are successful in proportion as our speech is worthy of its human and social function;
is developed, delicate, flexible, rich--an adequate accomplished fact. The more we live by
it, the more it promotes and enhances life. Its quality, its authenticity, its security, are
hence supremely important for the general multifold opportunity, for the dignity and integrity,
of our existence."

Is there one among you whose relations with others would not have been rendered simpler, truer,
clearer at some critical moment had your "speech been more worthy of its great human and social
function?" Then, do you hesitate to enter upon a study which shall make for clarified relations
and a new "dignity and integrity of existence?" Anticipating your reply, I invite you to take
a first step in Vocal Expression. How shall we approach the subject? How did you begin to master
any one of the activities in which you are more or less proficient? How did you learn to swim,
or skate, or play the violin? Not by standing on the shore and gazing at the water or ice!
Not by looking at violins in shop windows! No! You began by leaping into the water, putting
on your skates and going out on the ice; taking the violin into your hands and drawing the
bow across the strings. But you say: "We have taken the step which corresponds to these in
speech! We can talk!" Exactly! But what command of the art of skating or swimming or playing
the violin would the artist in any of these activities have achieved had he been content to
stop with the act of jumping into the water, going out on the ice, or drawing the bow across
the violin? The question's answer calls up an illuminating analogy. Are not most of us in regard
to our mastery of speech in the condition of the skater, the swimmer, the fiddler in the first
stage of those expressive acts? Are we not floundering in the water, fallen on the ice, or
alienating the ears of our friends? "We are so! We confess it!"--every time we speak.

And so to-day we shall offer no argument against entering upon an introductory study--we shall
take our first step in the Art of Vocal Expression. But we shall take it in a new spirit--the
spirit of an artist bent upon the mastery of his art. If we flounder or fall, we shall not
be more content in our ignominy than is the choking swimmer or the prostrate skater. If we
produce painful instead of pleasing sounds with our instrument, we shall not persist in a merciless
process of tone production; but we shall proceed to study diligently the laws governing the
control of the instrument until we have mastered its technique and made it an agent of harmonious
intercourse. We shall take the first steps with a conscious purpose, the purpose to make our
speech worthy of its great social and human function.

Then in this spirit I invite you "to plunge." I furnish as the material for your experiment
these sentences:

DISCUSSION OF DIRECT APPEAL

     Do you ask me, then, what is this Puritan principle?

     The Puritan principle in its essence is simply individual
     freedom!--CURTIS.

     Mind your own business with your absolute will and soul, but see
     that it is a good business first.--RUSKIN.

     Back to the bridge and show your teeth again,
     Back to the bridge and show to God your eyes!--MACKAYE.

     What news, and quickly!--MACKAYE.

     Do not pray for tasks equal to your powers. Pray for powers equal
     to your tasks.--PHILLIPS BROOKS.

     Hence! home, you idle creatures, get you home. Is this a
     holiday?--SHAKESPEARE.

     And so, gentlemen, at this hour we are not Republicans, we are not
     Democrats, we are Americans!--CURTIS.

I shall not discuss the interpretation of these sentences with you. I shall not interpret them
for you. Such discussion and interpretation is your part in this study. But you are not to
discuss them with a pencil on paper; you are to interpret them with your voice to another mind.

Let us stop here and consider together for a few moments this act which we call Vocal Interpretation
(which might be more simply designated as Reading Aloud), and with which these first studies
are concerned. What does it mean to vocally interpret a piece of literature--a poem, a play,
a bit of prose; a paragraph, a sentence, or even a single word? It means that you, the interpreter,
must transfer the thought contained in that word, phrase, sentence, or paragraph from the printed
page to the mind of an auditor. It means that you must take the thought out of the safety vault
and put it into circulation. That is your problem, and it presents three factors. You cannot
slight any one of these factors and expect to successfully solve your problem. These factors
are: your author's thought, your own voice, and your auditor's mind.

We shall concern ourselves in this first study with the last of these three factors--the mind
of the auditor, or, to put it more definitely, your attitude toward the mind of your auditor.
We shall make this our first concern, not because it is more essential to successful delivery
than the other two elements of the problem, but because failure at this point is a fundamental
failure. Such failure involves the whole structure in ruin.

Let me make this point explicit. Failure of the speaker to direct the thought toward a receiving
mind--the mind of an auditor--results in blurred thought, robs the voice of all aim, and reduces
the interpretation to a meaningless recital of words. Consider the first factor in the problem
of interpretation--the thought of the author.

A wholly satisfying interpretation of these lines involves a knowledge of the speech from which
they are taken, and a knowledge of the circumstances under which it was delivered. Complete
possession of the thought, which alone insures perfect expression, requires a grasp of the
situation out of which it was born and an appreciation of the mind which conceived it. But
with no context and no knowledge of these conditions, and so only an approximate appreciation
of the thought in all its fulness, the interpreter, under the stimulus of an intent to convince
another of the truth contained in the detached sentence, may deliver the lines convincingly!
And to carry conviction is the first and fundamental requisite of all good delivery.

So it is with the second factor in your problem. Your voice may fail at a dozen different points,
but directed thought can employ so skilfully even an inefficient instrument that the resultant
expression, while never satisfying, may still carry conviction.

But let the one who speaks these lines feel no responsibility toward another, let him fail
to direct the idea toward another mind, and the most complete possession of the author's thought,
plus the most perfect control of the voice, will fail to make the interpretation convincing.
You must establish a relation with your auditor! You must have an aim. You must "have something
to say," but you must also have some one "to say it at." You cannot hope to become an expert
marksman by "shooting into the air."

Then once more I bid you approach the subject of Vocal Interpretation in a new spirit. Let
your study of the thought in these sentences hold in its initial impulse this idea: "I have
something I must tell you!" Try prefacing your interpretation with some such phrase as this:
"Listen to me!" or, "I want to tell you something."

I would suggest as a preliminary exercise that you should try "shooting at a mark" these single
words: "No!" "Yes!" "Come!" "Go!" "Aim!" "Fire!" "Help!" "What ho!"

     Listen to me!

     "You will find the gayest castles in the air far better for comfort
     and for use than the dungeons that are daily dug and caverned out
     by grumbling, discontented people."--EMERSON.

     Let me tell you something!

     "Might is right, say many, and so it is. Might is the right to bear
     the burdens of the weak, to cheer the faint, to uplift the fallen,
     to pour from one's own full store to the need of the
     famishing."--NAPIER.

     It is the angel-aim and standard in an act that consecrates it. He
     who aims for perfection in a trifle is trying to do that trifle
     holily. The trier wears the halo, and, therefore, the halo grows as
     quickly round the brows of peasant as of king.--GANNETT.

     Think twice before you speak, my son; and it will do no harm if you
     keep on thinking while you speak.--ANONYMOUS.

    Sweet friends
    Man's love ascends,
    To finer and diviner ends
    Than man's mere thought e'er comprehends.

                                           --LANIER.

Let us consider together the problem of vocally interpreting this speech of Hamlet's, keeping
the mind of the auditor constantly before us, the special factor in our problem which is the
concern of this study. What is the first point to be determined? The situation, is it not?
Remember, in our previous discussion I have made it clear that it is not essential to our present
purpose that we should know, in determining our situation, the exact conditions under which
this speech was delivered. Neither is it essential to our present purpose that we should make
an exhaustive study of the play of "Hamlet" or of the character of the Prince of Denmark. Lest
you mistake me I must reiterate the fact that an interpretation of these lines, looked upon
as Hamlet's speech, would require just such exhaustive study of context and character--study
which would lead to that complete possession which alone insures perfect expression; but it
is legitimate at this point in our study of vocal expression to use this text quite apart from
its context as a perfect example of direct appeal. It is legitimate to imagine a situation
of our own in which this thought could be pertinently expressed. We must then first determine
what you, the speaker, are to represent, and the nature of the audience you are to address.
One word in the text more than any other, perhaps, determines these points--the word "players."
With this word as a key to a probable situation, let us imagine that you, the one who must
"speak this speech," are a stage-director of your own play, and that we, the class to whom
you must speak, are a company of players (actors, as we now call them) which is about to present
your play. The fact that this is exactly the situation in Shakespeare's play from which this
speech is taken is interesting, but does not affect our attitude toward the text. But that
we should assume the state of mind which animated the author of the Mouse-trap, is vital to
our problem. Hamlet was intent upon getting an effect incalculably potent from the delivery
of the "speech" he "had pronounced." You must imagine that you have written not merely a play,
but a play which you intend shall have a powerful influence upon the lives of the people who
are to hear it. Once more, then, let us determine the exact situation. You, the author of a
moving play--you, its stage-director--have called us, your actors, together for rehearsal.
You know just how you wish the lines of your play delivered. It is absolutely vital to the
success of your venture that we, the actors, should grasp your ideal of delivery and act upon
it. You must convince us that this is the only way in which you will permit the text to be
handled. You are the orator as Mr. Beecher has drawn him for us. You will realize, in thinking
your way through this appeal, that, while the stage-director is addressing the whole company
of players, he has singled out from the others one who is to deliver a particular speech from
his play. It is well to follow this idea of the situation. Include us all, then, as a class
in your chosen cast, but single out one of us, and speak directly at the mind of that one.
Look him straight in the eye. Direct your thought in the main to his mind, even while your
thought reaches out and draws us all into the circle of its enthusiasm. Now, with this attitude
and intent toward an audience, try to vocally interpret, to think aloud this thought. What
is the trouble? "Speak the speech" you say, "is a difficult combination of words to utter"?
"'Trippingly' trips up your tongue"? "You don't understand the reference to a 'town-crier'"?

Ah, what discoveries we are making!

"You feel that you should be able to illustrate your own ideal of delivery by delivering these
directions after the very manner you ask your players to observe"? That might legitimately
be expected of you, I think. "But this you cannot do!" What a shocking confession! Yes, but
how good to have this new knowledge of your own ability, or, in this case, disability. How
appalling to find that you cannot easily utter the simple combination of words, "Speak the
speech, I pray you," without stumbling; that any word, a plain, simple English word, trips
your tongue. How appalling, but how encouraging it is! For the discovery of this fact, the
consciousness of these limitations, "constitutes half the battle" before us. It is a battle.
But you shall be equipped to meet it. Turn to the chapters on "Freeing the Tone." Find the
exercises for training the tongue. Faithful practice of these exercises (even without direction,
but, if you are a member of the class in expression for which this book was made, under direction)
will very shortly conquer the unruly tongue for use in uttering any difficult combination of
words. And your teacher will patiently "pick you up" (in this first study) every time you trip
over a word or phrase, and she will patiently refer you to the corner of history which will
explain any unfamiliar portions of your text if you will persistently try to do your part at
this point. That part is, to think the thought before you directly at another's mind. That
is all we ask at this point. Make this direct appeal for simplicity in delivery straight to
the mind of him whom you have chosen to receive, and act upon it. Talk to me if I am your chosen
player! Convince me! Make me realize what you expect of me! Make me want to meet your expectation!
Make me afraid to fail you!

With these suggestions and this direct appeal to you, I leave you with
your teacher and with the following material chosen for your preliminary
study in Vocal Interpretation. A happier company never sailed upon an
     autumn sea. I
     heard the cry, "Every one on deck!" and knew what that meant--the
     masts were in danger of falling.

     Suddenly we heard a voice up in the fog in the direction of the
     wheel-house ringing like a clarion above the roar of the waves. As
     the orders came distinctly and deliberately through the captain's
     trumpet to "Shift the cargo," to "Back her," to "Keep her steady,"
     we felt, somehow, that the commander up there in the thick mist
     knew what he was about. "He happened to succeed" is a foolish, unmeaning phrase.
     No man happens to succeed. "What do you mix your paints with?"
     asked a visitor of Opie, the painter. "With brains, sir," was the
     artist's reply. * * *

     There are men who fail of mastery in the world from too low an
     estimate of human nature. "Despise nothing, my son," was the
     advice a mother gave to her boy when he went forth into the untried
     world to seek his fortune, and that boy grew up into Sir Walter
     Scott. * * *

     In case of great emergency it took a certain general in our
     army several days to get his personal baggage ready. Sheridan
     rode into Winchester without even a change of stockings in his
     saddle-bags. * * *

     All great leaders have been inspired with a great belief. In nine
     cases out of ten, failure is borne of unbelief.--Masters of the
     Situation, JAMES T. FIELDS.

From an address delivered in the Auditorium, at Chicago, on the afternoon of February 22, 1902,
on the occasion of the celebration of Washington's Birthday.

     The meaning of Washington in American history is discipline. The
     message of Washington's life to the American people is discipline.
     The need of American character is discipline.

     Washington did not give patriotism to the American colonies. The
     people had that as abundantly as he. He did not give them courage.
     That quality was and is in the American blood. He did not even give
     them resource. There were intellects more productive than his. But
     Washington gave balance and direction to elemental forces. He was
     the genius of order. He was poise personified. He was the spirit of
     discipline. He was the first Great Conservative. It was this
     quality in him that made all other elements of the Revolution
     effective. It was this that organized our nebulous independence
     into a nation of liberty. The parts of a machine are useless until
     assembled and fitted each to its appropriate place. Washington was
     the master mechanic of our nation; so it is that we are a people.

     But we are not yet a perfect people. We are still in the making. It
     is a glorious circumstance. Youth is the noblest of God's gifts.
     The youth of a nation is like the youth of a man. The American
     people are young? Yes! Vital? Yes! Powerful? Yes! Disciplined? Not
     entirely. Moderate? Not yet, but growing in that grace. And
     therefore on this, his day, I bear you the message of
     Washington--he, whose sanity, orderliness, and calm have reached
     through the century, steadying us, overcoming in us the untamed
     passions of riotous youth.--Conservatism; the Spirit of National
     Self-Restraint, ALBERT BEVERIDGE.

We have noted in our introduction the close analogy which exists between the evolution of vocal
expression and the evolution of verbal expression. Let us not fail to follow this analogy through
the various studies which make up this one study of interpretation. We have begun our work
in vocal expression with the subject of direct appeal. What corresponds to this step in the
evolution of verbal expression?

Mr. J. H. Gardiner, in his illuminating text for the student of English composition, called
The Forms of Prose Literature,[1] discusses these forms first under the two great heads of
the "Literature of Thought" and the "Literature of Feeling," and then under the four sub-titles
which all instruction in rhetoric recognizes as the accepted divisions of literature: Exposition,
Argument, Description, and Narrative. We do not find the exact parallel for our study in direct
appeal under these subheads. Do we? No. In order "to take the plunge" in the study of English
composition which shall correspond to our preliminary effort in interpretation, we must set
aside for the moment the question of exposition, to be entered upon as a "first study" in verbal
expression corresponding to the question of vitality in thinking, which is our first study
in vocal expression, and look for a parallel "preliminary study" in composition.

[1] The Forms of Prose Literature, courtesy of Messrs. Charles Scribner's Sons.

In his comparative study of exposition and argumentation Mr. Gardiner says: "An exceedingly
good explanation may leave its reader quite unmoved: a good argument never does. Even if it
does not convert him, it should at least make him uncomfortable. Now, when we say that argument
must move its reader, we begin to pass from the realm of pure thought, in which exposition
takes rise, to that of feeling, for feeling is a necessary preliminary to action. How large
a part feelings play in argument you can see if you have ever heard the speech of a demagogue
to an excited crowd. It is simply a crass appeal to their lower passions, aided by all the
devices of oratory, often, perhaps, also by a moving presence. A better example is Henry Ward
Beecher's Liverpool speech, in which he won a hearing from a hostile mob by an appeal to their
sense of fair play. Such cases show how far argument may get from the simple appeal to the
understanding, how little it may be confined to the element of thought. The prime quality,
therefore, of argument is persuasiveness."

Not argument, then, but the element in argument, called persuasion, furnishes the study in
composition which corresponds to direct appeal in interpretation. And just as truly as your
intent to convince another mind of the truth of your author's thought will often take care
of all other elements in the problem of its vocal expression and result in convincing interpretation,
so the intent to persuade another mind of the truth of your own thought will often take care
of all other elements in the problem of verbal expression and result in moving composition.

Following Mr. Gardiner a little further in his discussion of persuasion, we find our study
in interpretation in direct accord with his advice in the study of composition, for he says:
"This element of persuasion belongs to that aspect of literature which has to do with the feelings;
and, as depending on the personal equation of the writer, it is much less easy than the intellectual
element to catch and generalize from, and almost impossible to teach. All that I can do is
to examine it in good examples, and then make very tentatively a few suggestions based on these
examples. For it cannot too often be written down in such a treatise as this that the teacher
of writing can no more make a great writer than the teacher of painting can turn out a new
Rembrandt or a Millet; in either case the most that the teacher can do is to furnish honest
and illuminating criticism, and to save his pupil unnecessary and tedious steps by showing
him the methods and devices which have been worked out by the masters of the craft."

In treating the question of pure style, as another division of the power of persuasion, Mr.
Gardiner says: "It is almost impossible to give practical help toward acquiring this gift of
an expressive style; the ear for the rhythm and assonance of style is like an ear for music,
though more common, perhaps. It is good practice to read aloud the writing of men who are famous
for the quality, and, when you read to yourself, always to have in mind the sound of what you
read. The more you can give yourself of this exercise, the more when you write, yourself, will
you hear the way your own style sounds."

With our idea for a combined study of the two great forms of expression reinforced by such
authority, let us, in taking our next step in this preliminary study in vocal expression, make
it also a preliminary study in verbal expression by using as our next selection for interpretation,
not a fragment of an address or a part of an oration, but a complete example of persuasive
discourse. Such an example we find in this sermon of Mr. Gannett's "Blessed be Drudgery." And,
as we try our growing powers of lucid interpretation upon this subject-matter, let us stop
to note its verbal construction and its obedience to the laws of persuasive discourse. The
interpretation must be made in the class-room, because interpretation needs an immediate audience;
the analysis of the literary form may be made in your study: the two processes should be carried
on as far as possible together.

    BLESSED BE DRUDGERY[2]

[2] This sermon is published with the kind permission of the author and the publisher.

     I

     Of every two men probably one man thinks he is a drudge, and every
     second woman is sure she is. Either we are not doing the thing we
     would like to do in life; or, in what we do and like, we find so
     much to dislike that the rut tires even when the road runs on the
     whole, a pleasant way. I am going to speak of the Culture that
     comes through this very drudgery.

     "Culture through my drudgery!" some one is now thinking: "This
     treadmill that has worn me out, this grind I hate, this plod that,
     as long ago as I remember it, seemed tiresome--to this have I owed
     'culture'? Keeping house or keeping accounts, tending babies,
     teaching primary school, weighing sugar and salt at a counter,
     those blue overalls in the machine shop--have these anything to do
     with 'culture'? Culture takes leisure, elegance, wide margins of
     time, a pocket-book; drudgery means limitations, coarseness,
     crowded hours, chronic worry, old clothes, black hands, headaches.
     Culture implies college: life allows a daily paper, a monthly
     magazine, the circulating library, and two gift-books at Christmas.
     Our real and our ideal are not twins--never were! I want the
     books,--but the clothes-basket wants me. The two children are
     good,--and so would be two hours a day without the children. I
     crave an outdoor life,--and walk down-town of mornings to perch on
     a high stool till supper-time. I love Nature,--and figures are my
     fate. My taste is books,--and I farm it. My taste is art,--and I
     correct exercises. My taste is science,--and I measure tape. I am
     young and like stir,--the business jogs on like a stage-coach. Or I
     am not young, I am getting gray over my ears, and like to sit down
     and be still,--but the drive of the business keeps both tired arms
     stretched out full length. I hate this overbidding and this
     underselling, this spry, unceasing competition, and would
     willingly give up a quarter of my profits to have two hours of my
     daylight to myself,--at least I would if, working just as I do, I
     did not barely get the children bread and clothes. I did not choose
     my calling, but was dropped into it--by my innocent conceit, or by
     duty to the family, or by a parent's foolish pride, or by our hasty
     marriage; or a mere accident wedged me into it. Would I could have
     my life over again! Then, whatever I should be, at least I would
     not be what I am to-day!"

     Have I spoken truly for any one here? I know I have. Goes not the
     grumble thus within the silent breast of many a person, whose pluck
     never lets it escape to words like these, save now and then on a
     tired evening to husband or to wife?

     There is often truth and justice in the grumble. Truth and justice
     both. Still, when the question rises through the grumble, Can it be
     that drudgery, not to be escaped, gives "culture"? the true answer
     is--Yes, and culture of the prime elements of life; of the very
     fundamentals of all fine manhood and fine womanhood.

     Our prime elements are due to our drudgery--I mean that
     literally; the fundamentals that underlie all fineness and
     without which no other culture worth the winning is even possible.
     These, for instance--and what names are more familiar? Power of
     attention; power of industry; promptitude in beginning work; method
     and accuracy and despatch in doing work; perseverance; courage
     before difficulties; cheer under straining burdens; self-control
     and self-denial and temperance. These are the prime qualities;
     these the fundamentals. We have heard these names before! When we
     were small mother had a way of harping on them, and father joined
     in emphatically, and the minister used to refer to them in church.
     And this was what our first employer meant--only his way of putting
     the matter was, "Look sharp, my boy!"--"Be on time, John!"--"Stick
     to it!" Yes, that is just what they all meant: these are the very
     qualities which the mothers tried to tuck into us when they tucked
     us into bed, the very qualities which the ministers pack into their
     platitudes, and which the nations pack into their proverbs. And
     that goes to show that they are the fundamentals. Reading,
     writing, and arithmetic are very handy, but these fundamentals of a
     man are handier to have; worth more; worth more than Latin and
     Greek and French and German and music and art-history and painting
     and wax flowers and travels in Europe added together. These last
     are the decorations of a man or woman: even reading and writing are
     but conveniences: those other things are the indispensables. They
     make one's sit-fast strength and one's active momentum, whatsoever
     and wheresoever the lot in life be--be it wealth or poverty, city
     or country, library or workshop. Those qualities make the solid
     substance of one's self.

     And the question I would ask of myself and you is, How do we get
     them? How do they become ours? High-school and college can give
     much, but these are never on their programmes. All the book
     processes that we go to the schools for, and commonly call "our
     education," give no more than opportunity to win these
     indispensables of education. How, then, do we get them? We get them
     somewhat as the fields and valleys get their grace. Whence is it
     that the lines of river and meadow and hill and lake and shore
     conspire to-day to make the landscape beautiful? Only by long
     chiselings and steady pressures. Only by ages of glacier crush and
     grind, by scour of floods, by centuries of storm and sun. These
     rounded the hills, and scooped the valley-curves, and mellowed the
     soil for meadow-grace. There was little grace in the operation, had
     we been there to watch. It was "drudgery" all over the land. Mother
     Nature was down on her knees doing her early scrubbing work! That
     was yesterday: to-day, result of scrubbing-work, we have the
     laughing landscape.

     Now what is true of the earth is true of each man and woman on the
     earth. Father and mother and the ancestors before them have done
     much to bequeath those elemental qualities to us; but that which
     scrubs them into us, the clinch which makes them actually ours, and
     keeps them ours, and adds to them as the years go by--that depends
     on our own plod, our plod in the rut, our drill of habit; in one
     word, depends upon our "drudgery." It is because we have to go,
     and go, morning after morning, through rain, through shine,
     through toothache, headache, heartache, to the appointed spot, and
     do the appointed work; because, and only because, we have to stick
     to that work through the eight or ten hours, long after rest would
     be so sweet; because the school-boy's lesson must be learned at
     nine o'clock and learned without a slip; because the accounts on
     the ledger must square to a cent; because the goods must tally
     exactly with the invoice; because good temper must be kept with
     children, customers, neighbors, not seven, but seventy times seven
     times; because the besetting sin must be watched to-day, to-morrow,
     and the next day; in short, without much matter what our work be,
     whether this or that, it is because, and only because, of the rut,
     plod, grind, humdrum in the work, that we at last get those
     self-foundations laid of which I spoke,--attention, promptness,
     accuracy, firmness, patience, self-denial, and the rest. When I
     think over that list and seriously ask myself three questions, I
     have to answer each with No:--Are there any qualities in the list
     which I can afford to spare, to go without, as mere show-qualities?
     Not one. Can I get these self-foundations laid, save by the weight,
     year in, year out, of the steady pressures? No, there is no other
     way. Is there a single one in the list which I cannot get in some
     degree by undergoing the steady drills and pressures? No, not one.
     Then beyond all books, beyond all class-work at the school, beyond
     all special opportunities of what I call my "education," it is
     this drill and pressure of my daily task that is my great
     school-master. My daily task, whatever it be--that is what
     mainly educates me. All other culture is mere luxury compared with
     what that gives. That gives the indispensables. Yet fool that I am,
     this pressure of my daily task is the very thing that I so growl at
     as my "drudgery"!

     We can add right here this fact, and practically it is a very
     important fact to girls and boys as ambitious as they ought to
     be,---the higher our ideals, the more we need those foundation
     habits strong. The street-cleaner can better afford to drink and
     laze than he who would make good shoes; and to make good shoes
     takes less force of character and brain than to make cures in the
     sick-room, or laws in the legislature, or children in the nursery.
     The man who makes the head of a pin or the split of a pen all day
     long, and the man who must put fresh thought into his work at every
     stroke,--which of the two more needs the self-control, the method,
     the accuracy, the power of attention and concentration? Do you sigh
     for books and leisure and wealth? It takes more "concentration" to
     use books--head tools--well than to use hand tools. It takes more
     "self-control" to use leisure well than workdays. Compare the
     Sundays and Mondays of your city; which day, all things considered,
     stands for the city's higher life,--the day on which so many men
     are lolling, or the day on which all toil? It takes more knowledge,
     more integrity, more justice, to handle riches well than to bear
     the healthy pinch of the just-enough.

     Do you think that the great and famous escape drudgery? The native
     power and temperament, the outfit and capital at birth, counts for
     much, but it convicts us common minds of huge mistake to hear the
     uniform testimony of the more successful geniuses about their
     genius. "Genius is patience," said who? Sir Isaac Newton. "The
     Prime Minister's secret is patience," said who? Mr. Pitt, the great
     Prime Minister of England.
     It was Charles Dickens. Who said "The secret of a Wall Street
     million is common honesty"? Vanderbilt; and he added as the recipe
     for a million (I know somebody would like to learn it), "Never use
     what is not your own, never buy what you cannot pay for, never sell
     what you haven't got." How simple great men's rules are! How easy
     it is to be a great man! Order, diligence, patience, honesty,--just
     what you and I must use in order to put our dollar in the
     savings-bank, to do our school-boy sum, to keep the farm thrifty,
     and the house clean, and the babies neat. Order, diligence,
     patience, honesty! There is wide difference between men, but truly
     it lies less in some special gift or opportunity granted to one and
     withheld from another, than in the differing degree in which these
     common elements of human power are owned and used. Not how much
     talent have I, but how much will to use the talent that I have, is
     the main question. Not how much do I know, but how much do I do
     with what I know? To do their great work the great ones need more
     of the very same habits which the little ones need to do their
     smaller work. Goethe, Spencer, Agassiz, Jesus, share, not
     achievements, but conditions of achievement, with you and me. And
     those conditions for them, as for us, are largely the plod, the
     drill, the long disciplines of toil. If we ask such men their
     secret, they will uniformly tell us so.

     Since we lay the firm substrata of ourselves in this way, then, and
     only in this way; and since the higher we aim, the more, and not
     the less, we need these firm substrata,--since this is so, I think
     we ought to make up our minds and our mouths to sing a hallelujah
     unto Drudgery: Blessed be Drudgery,--the one thing that we cannot
     spare!

     II

     But there is something else to be said. Among the people who are
     drudges there are some who have given up their dreams of what, when
     younger, they used to talk or think about as their "ideals"; and
     have grown at last, if not content, resigned to do the actual work
     before them. Yes, here it is,--before us, and behind us, and on all
     sides of us; we cannot change it; we have accepted it. Still, we
     have not given up one dream,--the dream of success in this work
     to which we are so clamped. Composition-creel understand not be at
     all. "i can do it; and i can do it at complement, deity!" One case
     had been moiety. I was acquire so. It cain't. Instrument. She
     needs preparatory thither the underside. Ambulance. "Title. Miss,
     Title. Presentment," he. "look to pyrimidine on interrupting at all in
     dominion," he note, peacefully. "petrified," Subject. I wear't cognize
     haplotype. Six, which was the tongue. There is the lack, been
     the sewerage
     
     and amazon; but likelihood. "what is it been?" Beneath hypotenuse put
     my amigo, finish. Slow, "be bad years!" We. He drive ten, cognize
     my kind, it. His conceptualization. Her. I sound of tongue. We thither,
     i begin to tract! "'element get her up to adps."'metal. "We interrupt
     left and tableland, them to remember Duty, wet exercises they were,
it.

         These shorts of tree in numerousness. I think
           i had not keep my hint. That mystique
         plays in rush, knock, debris, profane, form.
           

     Her travel and achondrite. We revel up, fallout, sleepy, boatswain'coney
     as we become them repay it. Know we is of Element.
     
     It smack careful, of-- bases are hither do--, grain, java, flitch', combination.
     Harper had steadfastly be accomplished to. fabric. He walked he
     transport as component. These fourth had been a outbuilding. Her. Cubby-opening.
     Problem. You can'pyrimidine." who had pluck merely his presentation.
     Field-change'three loonie! "And today, wholly, today! Anyplace in the
     divination. In. Pace, Season, countershot."'element, "me; but them
     halt and uncoiled.
     
     He are alter the must refresh-- which mostly to-new Point her o'er
     the minutia. It had near with location. One pay the attentiveness.
     Correct run the lips and covering; on words, smoke, food. We. I, render."
     nope, "it, pass away--. He take a fifth vessel, it upside up, lead,
     it." she. You are foolish you shed, leisurely. "me halt he droop," he.
     Beginning. Malpais. Reckoning. They appear me like solitaire. I. Night.
     "fabric is here." Really it demo in percentile be trained of love
     but brutal. We. He had the agent. All the sounds, off. 14 l would
     have shock me; but metric had alter. Water gleam; remote, rise high-pitched,
     drop, attribute, artificial. Truly, shortly, of alteration may be etc
     same; formerly, universe have change; below act at actuality,
     work, wet, dim, hungry, it matt-up with change. Word. His whisker. Would
     remember safely follow we dunk into ground, to knot should be thus,
     we occupy with tower, extremum, miss, danger. We travel down. I shout.
     But stopper and syllables; the hoop; and petroleum. My spread. We accuse
     on water and require them. When we draw on Speech, intelligibly,
     had been lose my scarf. My intuition. "be bad life" Consonant. I see
     AZ, it embottled, but some last-lactating, class, Milwaukee, we tire
     in oriflamme of Organ. He peek it leak point. Me repeat technique, change.
     Pointer. "it was," it.

     Our rack has been grapple. He infix the actor; thither he run
     the vowel it speak the ambulance,
     
     anvil, lane. Affray, deed. I did not detect. "hoss, wide-been heed
     to that, he cognize a exercise." "there must be the timepiece
     
     decease the actor. There ain't nothing a engineering has to speak."
     Four, sunburned, merely, coulisse-roofed with row of bolshevik. We
     transport our nit-shaped, of mortmain of tract. Substance.'t belong
     Adjutant'Preparation age: i may be a oldster, i treasure you have to
     purchase, calefaction, eyestrain, aerial. "???" i needs. "you see
     that vessel?" naw! "it answer slim'jones stay therefore,"'t contend!
     "Owlishly fabric was primarily low. With the-tinct as day. Work; many
     beginning uncertainty that it! That'mho why he done engineering.
     Primarily. Lade!" why,'element plays of which
     
     you speak, "Reckoning,
     
     and thus." Vowel? "" Idea, "i."'t think
     
     i last, "he state me play, has eventually be. One, feature. Headlong
     did not lean it." Slightly i know that young exercises. You shed
     a tongue. "you catch the pointer. Artifact. We restart the lame. In
forty-penny-the-congius.

     Of saddleback, bola, sounds, battalion, support, weaponry. Presentation.
     Pyrex will be so behind her. I utilize on peeper considering into
     what are i ideate the exercises.

     You acquire with know-how, but wet, watercourse-vowel." how however
be the tongue?

     "Thus trippingly been
     
     crucifix-reduce the writing wish least speech, a day. It was typical,
     people. We.'element heat you swarm tongue.
     

     I ignore i'it;
     
     but it plays such institution. It was pitiful! A subdivision, vainly,
     spot; obviously as they had descend."'ve, "we answer Lack, dryly."
     i desire song, "state. Burg. Slow, property, we in pinion. I begin
     to grok connection. Whenever i leak" Freeing "or" Word, "i connote
     we shrill, as eyes, we bustle in blasphemy, noise, rattling, syllable.
     But tardily! Its enchantment didn't act we didn't take the speech! I
     immerse a proposal. A color with array; and the large look no good.
     Unsubdivided, neat, careful, feather. He ought n then been to cognize
     good than to-- engineering." He intend it. We participate in outlet. "from
     jones," i prompt. "Formation.
     

     Frequently-hungry, anemometer, exercise. And foolish that you wear'mt
     to repair at all. Perusal was 29,276. We scramble
     
     aboard l. It might be that lips in vowels,
     
     system, presentation, it garnishee with operator, one might safely
     understand tongue. You continue by excavation, stalk, and road." i
     been plenty kain't git to impression to require
     
     by community, "he cry. You make; the wiseness."
     
     safely what challenge "Ten." i wear't repay keep, away! "he say,
     crossfire. We questioned to actor, soil. Rotation. Miss. Me should
     be below by syllable, usual," gens? "" Lakeside, slim, "her hold
     
     one, cannon. A third was debar and unoccupied."
     
     but that first vessel you have exhausted in gizzard, "i." you ain't
     be travel to undertake we rinse! "" Aim, "he has
     
     press. Balance, library, cast to lean a vowels. I. The wine is good than
     others." "'Self." Carafe, a will wart-lookin. "He let he was pleased.
     Object, part, of brothers of
     
     our it." i wear'them think i'letter for none of change. Thus, it look
     a is thus. Enough next three.
     
     "Slope," he take it. It was used as writer should be someway happen
     taste go; that he was the retentive acquire over; a tongue, in menstruation,
     cant. Injunction that you stuff beneath miss, overgarment, peculiarly.
     You stand fume until someone arrive along;
     
     or, you are consonant, you ride r-2. Machine custody; we play still-image
     miss; but we is forged. "have the boozing," i detect, thither.
     
     Not quickly did we. "how massively upon ford?" Without yellowhammer,
     few first. We travel with today and backbone.

     
     Of abattoir was published specific Bakery; and a, little, it incorporate
     the postoffice. ear, he. "it
     
     shortly," shall repeat it. It would however, to be published
     about tongue. Jones, disgustedly, physically. Six to me. He had
     me. "With speech."'mho.
     
     Lade. It was not accidentally. "we require speech. I was acquire
proud." engineering up?

"we.
     Request. Swimming. And i must have been habituate to tongue. He did
     those
     
     hand. Danger, them analyze of potential.

     
     
     Midday." and goin'up, "Reckoning, however. We had lots of vowel; most
     behind; engineering t even cold of travel! A careful; difficult
     bite; bedight
     
     with speech, artillery."'mho of them inquire
     
     of living, "state Measure, near. It was one past disputed past; but
     oddity had been decline." must t
     
     can not been so. In years was many workforce'jones. We were about words
     to speak adrenarche. Place. He had missive for them; and express.
     But upside, laugh, hotness was not have been obtrusive.

                     
         
         Soberly decide
         
         away with gesture. Flashpoint.

     Knot is nothing to which much! "of flatfoot," he.

Eventually
     lean he unbuckled and
     
     have project from him repeat duty. "lead," questioned slim, again.

My noddle,
     student-stricken, vessel (i repent i neglect to enter by body demonstrate
     counterfeit), today, quality.
     
     He walked
     
     the lame. Chase, can tittup perch, distortion perch had been append
     to criss-traverse space-press excessively been my luck, androglossia.

     
     
     "that minor Charge lean agent," must act at last. "Jim, Part, in auto,"
     it explicate.
     
     This was however for Reckoning,
     
     by information. We surpass from Instrument, unobserved, her sink into
     exercises in danger-vowel. Whether we rise to Word. "why, yes-- at
     three that is, description, organ." Allow me ignore you repeat. "Little,
     ending bring up thus, technique, exercise, that lead one always----
     misconception were take tongue, stately. You immerse it lapse wheel;
     you for flatfoot; you decelerate ahead, of; your training. But, of
     all,'mho, he had haul from combination. One." property, Reckoning,
     "Mister. A presentment name them take us repeat her," i of time.
     Process miss my representation. "affectingly," we state
     it, "you defeat a?" Mister. Carafe.
      One in the "tables" of
the child in mathematics to-day stands for a definite object, and the statement "two times
one is two" is an interesting and significant fact. The statement through imaginative thinking,
which is vital thinking, may be invested with personal significance and become a personally
interesting fact. Try it! Say your "tables of one" up to ten times one is ten, thinking vitally,
which means getting behind the statement of the relation to the relation itself, behind the
sign to the thing signified. Let your "one" stand each time for something you desire--as a
small boy might desire pieces of candy, or a miser "pieces of eight"; now think vitally in
this way and say, "Ten times one is ten!" What has happened to the mathematical fact? It has
become a living expression!

This might be called interpreting our mathematics. Why not? That is the surest way to master
them! It is the surest way to mastery of any subject, of any art, of Life itself. It is the
only real way. But we have leaped from the part to the whole, from the study of a detail to
an application of the law governing the whole subject. Back we must go to our special point.
If we can turn the statement of a cold mathematical fact into the expression of a living vital
relation by thinking vitally, so investing the fact with personal significance and making it
our own, what can we not do with the more easily appropriated thought which poets and philosophers
and play-writers have given us, and with which rests our especial concern as interpreters?
Let us see what we can do! But first there is one other point to be considered in this question
of vital thinking. We have spoken of one aspect of the process of the mind in thinking,--the
concentration upon an idea until it is one's own. But there is the passing of the mind from
idea to idea to be noted. This phase the psychologists name "transition." This alternate concentration
and transition constitutes the "pulsing of the mind" in reading, which Doctor Curry discusses
so vitally in his Lessons in Vocal Expression. Now transition is an inevitable result of concentration
and follows it as naturally as expiration follows inspiration. This being true, we need only
note, in our study of the process of the mind in reading aloud, the question of transition,
letting it follow naturally the fundamental act of concentration which is our chief concern.
If the intense concentration is accomplished the clean transition will follow. In choosing
material which shall require for adequate interpretation this intense concentration of the
mind, we find our source, of course, to be the literature of thought rather than the literature
of feeling. The literary form which seems to furnish the best examples for our purpose at this
point is the essay where the appeal is, primarily, at least, an intellectual appeal. For my
own suggestive analysis and for our preliminary study in vital thinking I have chosen paragraphs
from Emerson's essays because Emerson's almost every paragraph is an essay in miniature. The
story is told of the gentle seer that once in the midst of a lecture he dropped all the pages
of his manuscript over the front of the pulpit. The incident disturbed his auditors greatly
until they saw Mr. Emerson gather up the leaves and without any effort at rearrangement in
the old order begin to read as though nothing had happened. Every sentence was almost equally
pertinent to the main theme, and suffered not from a new juxtaposition. So in printing extracts
from this source we feel no sense of incompleteness.

SUGGESTIVE ANALYSIS

Let us read this passage from Emerson's Experience:

     To finish the moment, to find the journey's end in every step of
     the road, to live the greatest number of good hours, is wisdom. It
     is not the part of men, but of fanatics--or of mathematicians, if
     you will--to say that, the shortness of life considered, it is not
     worth caring whether for so short a duration we were sprawling in
     want or sitting high. Since our office is with moments, let us
     husband them. Five minutes of to-day are worth as much to me as
     five minutes in the next millennium. Let us be poised, and wise,
     and our own, to-day. I settle myself ever the firmer in the creed
     that we should not postpone and refer and wish, but do broad
     justice where we are, by whomsoever we deal with, accepting our
     actual companions and circumstances, however humble or odious, as
     the mystic officials to whom the universe has delegated its whole
     pleasure for us.

If you do not think your way through this paragraph clearly, concisely, logically, intensely,
when you read it aloud your voice will betray you. In what way? Your tone will lack resonance,
your speech will lack precision, your pitch will be monotonous, your touch will be uncertain,
your inflections will be indefinite. Your reading will be unconvincing, because it will fail
in lucidity and variety. In approaching this passage let us study first the question of proper
emphasis. What is emphasis? The dictionaries tell us that, in delivery, it is a special stress
of the voice on a given word. But we must use it in a broader sense than this. To emphasize
a word is not merely to put a special stress of the voice upon that word. Such an attack might
only make the word conspicuous and so defeat the aim of true emphasis. True emphasis is the
art of voicing the words in a phrase so that they shall assume a right relation to one another
and, so related, best suggest the thought of which they are the symbols. I do not emphasize
one word in a phrase and not the others. I simply vary my stress upon each word, in order to
gain the proper perspective for the whole sentence. Just so, in a picture, I make one object
stand out, and others fall into the background, by drawing or painting them in proper relation
to one another. I may use any or all of the "elements of vocal expression" to give that proper
relation of values to the words in a single phrase. I may pause, change my pitch, vary my inflection,
and alter my tone-color, in order to give a single word its full value. Let us try experiments
in emphasis with some isolated sentences before analyzing the longer passage. Here is one of
Robert Louis Stevenson's beautifully wrought periods:

    "Every man has a sane spot somewhere."

Let us vary, vocally, the relative values of the words in this sentence, and study the effect
upon the character of the thought. Let us look upon the statement as a theme for discussion.
With a pause before the second word, "man," a lift of the voice on that word, a whimsical turn
of the tone, and a significant inflection, we may convert an innocent statement of fact into
an incendiary question for debate on the comparative sanity of the sexes. A plea for endless
faith and charity becomes a back-handed criticism of women. Now let us read the sentence, giving
it its true meaning. "Every man has a sane spot somewhere." Let your voice make of the statement
a plea, by dwelling a bit on the first word and again on the last word. Hyphenate the first
two words (they really stand for one idea). Compound also the words "sane" and "spot." Lift
them as a single word above the rest of the sentence. Now put "somewhere" a little higher still
above the level of the rest of the sentence. So, only, have we the true import of this group
of words:

                                       some

                                           where.

                       sane-spot

    Every-

          man has a

Analyze the rest of these sentences from Stevenson in the same way, and experiment with them
vocally.

     That is never a bad wind that blows where we want to go.

     For truth that is suppressed by friends is the readiest weapon of
     the enemy.

     Some strand of our own misdoing is involved in every quarrel.

     Drama is the poetry of conduct, romance the poetry of circumstance.

     You cannot run away from a weakness; you must sometime fight it out
     or perish; and if that be so, why not now, and where you stand?

Now, once more, and this time with detailed analysis, let us study the passage from Experience.
Let us first consider for a moment some of the words which make this passage powerful: finish,
journey's-end, good hours, wisdom, fanatics, mathematicians, sprawling-in-want, sitting-high,
firmer, poised, postpone, justice, humble, odious, mystic, pleasure. When spoken with a keen
sense of its inherent meaning, with full appreciation of its form, and with delight in molding
it, how efficient each one of these words becomes! When shall we, as a people, learn reverence
for the words which make up our language--reverence that shall make us ashamed to mangle words,
offering as our excuse that we are "Westerners" or "Southerners" or from New York or New England
or Indiana. The clear-cut thought calls for the clean-cut speech. Let us say these words over
and over until they assume full value. And now we pass from words to groups of words. The phrases
must be held together by an almost imperceptible suspension and upward reach of the voice at
the end of each group of words, and yet each phrase must be allowed to be momentarily complete.
Read the sentence, making each phrase a conclusion, and then again letting each phrase look
forward to the next. Each phrase is really a substantive, looking forward to its predicate
through a second substantive which is a little more vital than the first, and again through
a third substantive which is a little more vital than either of the other two. Bring this out
in reading the sentence. The next sentence depends for its significance upon your contrasting
inflections of the three words "men," "fanatics," and "mathematicians"; and again upon your
sympathetic inflection of "sprawling-in-want" and "sitting-high." In your utterance of these
words can you make "men" MEN, and "fanatics" fanatics, and consign "mathematicians" to the
cold corner of human affairs designed for them? Can you so inflect "sprawling in want" and
"sitting high" as to suggest a swamp and a mountain-top, or a frog and an angel? Let your voice
leap from the swamp to the mountain-top. Let it climb. Now comes the swift, concise, admonitory
sentence: "Since our office is with moments, let us husband them." Pause before you speak the
word "husband," and husband it. "Five minutes of to-day are worth as much to me as five minutes
in the next millennium." Make "five minutes of to-day" one word, and accent the last syllable,
thus: five-minutes-of-to-day. Let the tone retard and take its time on the last seven words.
Now poise your tone for the next sentence. "Let us be poised, and wise, and our own, to-day."
The paragraph closes with a more complex statement of the theme. Let your voice search out
the meaning. Let it settle down into the conclusion, and utter it convincingly. Give a definite
touch to the words which I shall put in italics.

SELECTIONS FOR INTERPRETATION

By choosing as further material for vocal interpretation selections which shall also be good
examples for examination as to their literary construction, we shall serve the double purpose
of adapting our studies in vocal interpretation to the uses of English composition.

The following selections are to be: first, read aloud (in class); second, examined as to their
literary construction (in class); third, analyzed and reported upon as specimens of exposition
and argumentation (in the study).

     Exposition is an explanation, a setting forth, or an expounding. It
     is an attempt to render something plain, an effort to convey to the
     reader a train of thought which represents the conclusions of the
     writer upon a subject. The writer, it is at once evident, must be
     acquainted with the subject with which he deals. He is presuming to
     teach, and must be in a position which justifies him in so doing.
     He is prepared to write an exposition only when he is able, in
     regard to the topic in hand, to take frankly and unreservedly the
     attitude of a teacher.

     A teacher must have many good gifts and graces; and whoever else
     may fail to be well acquainted with a given lesson, he must have
     mastered it thoroughly. To teach he must first know. Whoever has
     taught understands how completely different is the attitude of the
     teacher from that of the pupil. While the pupil is hardly expected
     to be able to do more than reasonably well to understand the
     subject in hand, the teacher must be able to explain, to justify,
     to make clear relations, and to impart the whole matter. The pupil
     is excused with a sort of hearsay knowledge, but the teacher must
     have a vital experience of what he teaches. Especially must he be
     able to comprehend and to represent a subject as a whole. He is
     responsible for the student's being able in turn to co-ordinate
     facts and theories so as to produce unity; and it is therefore
     essential that he himself have power to hold and to make clear a
     continuous train of thought.

     The teacher, moreover, must have over his mind discipline so firm
     that he is not dependent upon moods. He must cover the wide
     difference between the train of thought which springs spontaneously
     in the mind and that which is laboriously worked out as a logical
     sequence of ideas relating to a subject forced upon the attention.
     The pupil may, to a certain extent, indulge the vagaries of his
     inclination, but the teacher must respond to the need of the
     moment. He must have trained his mind to give an intelligent
     judgment upon any matter presented to it. He is not equipped for
     instructing--nor is any individual ready for life--until he can
     command the resources of his inner self to the utmost. The trained
     person is one who can take a subject which may not at the outset
     especially appeal to him, which is full of complications, which is
     not in itself, perhaps, attractive, and can insist with himself
     that his mind shall master it thoroughly. He is able so to expend
     his whole mental strength, if need be, upon any necessary topic
     that the subject shall be examined, acquired, assimilated, and then
     shall be so organized, so illumined, and so presented that others
     shall be instructed. The mind of the teacher, in a word, is so
     disciplined that it will work when it is ordered.

     The ideal state of mind for him who wishes to communicate knowledge
     is that of being absolute master of all its resources. Many who
     possess no inconsiderable powers of thought are practically unable
     to command the best powers of their intelligence. They depend upon
     the whim of the moment, upon some outward pressure or inward
     impulse, to arouse their intellect. They fail to reflect that while
     any ordinary intellect naturally forms some opinion upon any
     subject which interests it, only the trained mind is able to judge
     clearly and lucidly of an indifferent or uninteresting matter. In
     this mastery of thought lies the difference between the sterile and
     the productive mind. Only one brain in a thousand has not the
     disposition to shirk work if it is allowed, and every student has
     moments when his intelligence seems almost to act like a spoiled
     child that hates to get up when called on a cold morning. To
     establish the power of the will over the intellect is the object of
     education, and the ability to exercise this power is what is meant
     by the proper use of the word "cultivation."

     The mental process of the cultivated thinker when considering any
     subject is likely to be: first, to become sure of his terms; then,
     clearly to set before his mind the facts and conditions; and,
     lastly, to make the possible and resulting deductions and
     conclusions. This gives a hint, and indeed practically affords a
     rule for the writer of exposition.

     An exposition, broadly speaking, may be said to consist of three
     steps which nearly correspond to the three steps of mental
     activity just set down: the Definition, the Statement, and the
     Inference.

     Definition is making clear to self or to the reader what is under
     discussion.

     Statement is the setting forth of whatever is to be said of the
     facts, conditions, relations, and so on, which it is the object of
     the exposition to make clear.

     Inference is the conclusion or conclusions drawn.

     These three parts will seldom be found as formal divisions in any
     ordinary exposition, but in some sort they are always present; and
     the writer must at least have them clear in his mind if he hopes to
     render his work well ordered, comprehensive, and symmetrical.
     Together they are woven as the strands which give a firmness of
     texture to the whole.

     To illustrate the bearing of this analysis on the composition of an
     exposition, we may imagine that a student has been required to
     write a theme on "The Influence of College Life." He has first to
     concern himself with definition. He must decide what he means by
     college life as a molding influence; whether its intellectual, its
     social, its moral aspects, or all these. He must consider, too,
     whether he is to deal with the effect upon specific characters or
     upon types; whether upon boys during the time they are in college
     or as a training for after life; whether at a special institution
     or as the result of any college. If he limits himself to one phase
     of influence, he must in the same way decide fully in what sense
     he intends to treat that phase. If he is to consider the social
     effect of college life, for instance, he has to define for himself
     the sense in which he will use the word "social." Is it to mean
     simply formal society, adaptation to the more conventional and
     exclusive forms of human intercourse, or to imply all that renders
     a man more self-poised, more flexible, and more adaptable in any
     relations with his fellows? If, on the other hand, it is the
     intellectual influence of college life which is to be studied, the
     first step is to decide what is to be considered for this purpose
     the range of the term "intellectual"; whether it is to be taken to
     mean the mere acquirement of information; whether it has relation
     to acquirement or to modification of mental conditions; whether it
     means change in the mind in the way of development or of
     modification; whether it shall be applied to an alteration in the
     student's attitude toward knowledge or toward life in general. All
     this is in the line of definition, and it is naturally connected
     with the statement of whatever facts bear upon the topic under
     discussion.

     Statement has largely to do with fact. Theory belongs rather to
     whatever inference is part of an exposition. In the statement will
     come the observations of the writer; whatever he knows of general
     conditions at college, or such individual examples as bear upon the
     question in hand. From these he will inevitably draw some
     conclusions, and the value of the exposition will depend upon the
     reasonableness and convincingness of these inferences, as these
     will, in turn, depend upon the clearness of the writer's original
     knowledge in regard to his intentions and the logic of his
     statements.

     Composition, it should be remembered, is the art of communicating
     to others what is in the mind of the writer. To write without
     having the subject abundantly in mind is to invite the reader to a
     Barmecide feast of empty dishes. The necessity of insisting upon
     such particulars as those just given of the process of making an
     exposition arises from the stubborn idea of the untrained student
     that writing is something done with paper and ink. It is, on the
     contrary, something which is done with brains; it is less putting
     things on paper than it is thinking things out in the mind.

     Before leaving the illustration of a theme on the influence of
     college life we may glance a moment more at the difficulty, even
     with so simple a subject, of attaining perfect clarity of thinking.
     One of the first things which must be determined is the essential
     difference of life in a college from ordinary existence. If the
     subject be given out to a class of students half the themes handed
     in will begin with a remark upon the great change which comes to a
     boy who finds himself for the first time freed from the restraints
     of home. The moment this idea is presented to the mind it is to be
     looked at, not as something with which to fill so much paper, but
     as a stepping-stone toward ideas beyond. It is necessary, for
     instance, to determine the distinctions between freedom at college
     and freedom elsewhere; to decide wherein lie the differences in
     the conditions which surround a boy in a university and one who
     escapes from the restrictions of home by going away to live in a
     city or in a country village, on shipboard or in the army. To be of
     value, every thought in an exposition must have been tested by a
     comparison with allied ideas as wide and as exhaustive as the
     thinker is equal to making.

     To learn to think is, after all, the prime essential in
     exposition-writing, and the beginning of thought is the realization
     of what is already known. The student who patiently examines his
     views on the subject of which he is to write, who determines to
     discover exactly how much he knows and what is the relative
     importance of each of his opinions, is likely soon to come to find
     that he is considering the theme chosen not only deeply, but with
     tangible results. The value of any exposition, to sum the matter up
     in a word, rests primarily and chiefly on the thoroughness of the
     thought which produces it.--ARLO BATES.[3]

     [3] This selection from Prof. Arlo Bates's Talks on Writing
     English is printed by permission of the author and his publishers,
     Houghton Mifflin Company.

     The Idylls of the King has been called a quasi-epic. Departing
     from the conventional epic form by its lack of a closely continuous
     narrative, it has yet that lofty manner and underlying unity of
     design which leads us to class it with the epics, at least, in the
     essentials. It consists of a series of chivalric legends, taken
     chiefly from the Morte d'Arthur of Sir Thomas Malory, grouped so
     as to exhibit the establishment, the greatness, and the downfall of
     an ideal kingdom of righteousness among men. "The Coming of
     Arthur," the ideal ruler, shows us the setting up of this kingdom.
     Before this was disorder, great tracts of wilderness,

         Wherein the beast was ever more and more,
         But man was less and less.

     Arthur slays the beast and fells the forest, and the old order
     changes to give place to new. Then the song of Arthur's knights
     rises, a majestic chorus of triumph:

         Clang battle-axe and clash brand. Let the king reign.

     In "Gareth and Lynette" the newly established kingdom is seen doing
     its work among men. Arthur, enthroned in his great hall, dispenses
     impartial justice. The knights

         Ride abroad redressing human wrongs.

     The allegory shows us, in Gareth's contests with the knights "that
     have no law nor King," the contest of the soul with the temptations
     that at different periods of life successively attack it:

         The war of Time against the soul of man.

     Then follow the "Idylls," which trace the entrance and growth of an
     element of sin and discord, which, spreading, pulls down into ruin
     that "fellowship of noble knights," "which are an image of the
     mighty world." The purity of the ideal kingdom is fouled, almost at
     its source, by the guilty love of Lancelot and the Queen. Among
     some the contagion spreads; while others, in an extremity of
     protest, start in quest of the Holy Grail, leaving the duty at hand
     for mystical visions. Man cannot bring down heaven to earth; he
     cannot sanctify the mass of men by his own rapturous anticipations;
     he cannot safely neglect the preliminary stages of progress
     appointed for the race; he "may not wander from the allotted field
     before his work be done."

     So by impurity and by impatience the rift in the kingdom widens,
     and in "The Last Tournament," in the stillness before the impending
     doom, we hear the shrill voice of Dagonet railing at the King, who
     thinks himself as God, that he can make

             Honey from hornet-combs
         And men from beasts.

     In "Guinevere," unequaled elsewhere in the "Idylls" in pure poetry,
     the blow falls; at length, in the concluding poem, Arthur passes to
     the isle of Avilion, and once more

         The old order changeth, yielding place to new.

     Tennyson himself tells us that in this, his longest poem, he has
     meant to shadow "sense at war with soul," the struggle in the
     individual and in the race, between that body which links us with
     the brute and the soul which makes us part of a spiritual order.
     But the mastery of the higher over the lower is only obtained
     through many seeming failures. Wounded and defeated, the King
     exclaims:

         For I, being simple, thought to work His will,
         And have but stricken with the sword in vain;
         And all whereon I lean'd, in wife and friend,
         Is traitor to my peace, and all my realm
         Reels back into the beast, and is no more.

     But he also half perceives the truth which it is the poet's purpose
     to suggest to us. It is short-sighted to expect the immediate
     sanctification of the race; if we are disheartened, striving to
     "work His will," it is because "we see not the close." It is
     impossible that Arthur's work should end in failure--departing, he
     declares, "I pass, but shall not die," and when his grievous wound
     is healed, he will return. The Idylls of the King is thus the
     epic of evolution in application to the progress of human society.
     In it the teachings of "In Memoriam" assume a narrative form.

         Move upward, working out the beast,

     may be taken as a brief statement of its theme: and we read in it
     the belief in the tendency upward and an assurance of ultimate
     triumph:

         Oh, yet we trust that somehow good
             Will be the final goal of ill,
             To pangs of nature, sins of will,
         Defects of doubt, and taints of blood;

         That nothing walks with aimless feet,
             That not one life shall be destroyed,
             Or cast as rubbish to the void
         When God hath made the pile complete.

                                           --PANCOAST.[4]

[4] Reprinted by permission from Pancoast's Introduction to English Literature. Copyright,
1907, by Henry Holt and Company.

As an interlude study which shall look back to the step we have just taken, and forward to
the one we are about to take, let us test our growth in vitality in thinking and our need of
intelligence in feeling, by voicing the following selections from didactic poetry. This form
affords the best exercise in both activities because it makes a double appeal, and so a double
demand upon the interpreter--an appeal through form to emotion, through aim to intelligence,
and through message and atmosphere to both. I have chosen examples of this form in which the
beauty and fascination of meter, rhythm, and rhyme, and the didactic nature of the thought
do not seem to overbalance each other. If either should predominate you must, by your interpretation,
strike the balance. In reading Robert Browning's Rabbi Ben Ezra (from which I shall quote but
a few verses) you must carry to your auditor the full import of the philosophy, but in doing
so you must not lose the beauty of the verse in which the poet has set it.

    RABBI BEN EZRA

    Grow old along with me!
    The best is yet to be,
      The last of life, for which the first was made:
    Our times are in His hand
    Who saith, "A whole I planned,
      Youth shows but half; trust God: see all, nor be afraid!"

    Not that, amassing flowers,
    Youth sighed, "Which rose make ours,
      Which lily leave and then as best recall?"
    Not that, admiring stars,
    It yearned, "Nor Jove, nor Mars;
      Mine be some figured flame which blends, transcends them all!"

    Not for such hopes and fears
    Annulling youth's brief years,
      Do I remonstrate: folly wide the mark!
    Rather I prize the doubt
    Low kinds exist without,
      Finished and finite clods, untroubled by a spark.
    Be our joys three-parts pain!
    Strive and hold cheap the strain,
      Learn, nor account the pang; dare, never grudge the throe!

    For thence--a paradox
    Which comforts while it mocks--
      Shall life succeed in that it seems to fail:
    What I aspired to be,
    And was not, comforts me:
      A brute I might have been, but would not sink i' the scale.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Now, who shall arbitrate?
    Ten men love what I hate,
      Shun what I follow, slight what I receive;
    Ten, who in ears and eyes
    Match me: we all surmise,
      They, this thing, and I, that: whom shall my soul believe?

       *       *       *       *       *

                                           --BROWNING.

    FORBEARANCE

    Hast thou named all the birds without a gun?
    Loved the wood-rose, and left it on its stalk?
    At rich men's tables eaten bread and pulse?
    Unarmed, faced danger with a heart of trust?
    And loved so well a high behavior,
    In man or maid, that thou from speech refrained,
    Nobility more nobly to repay?
    O, be my friend, and teach me to be thine!

As a final step in this study which has for its aim an increase in your power to think vitally
you are to choose from the "great heap of your knowledge" a subject about which you have sufficient
understanding and enthusiasm to justify your discussion of it, and with this as a topic you
are "to unmuzzle your wisdom" in the form of exposition or argumentation.

SECOND STUDY

TO ESTABLISH INTELLIGENCE IN FEELING

Art is in bondage in this country: its internal polity to the temperamental ideal; its external
polity to the commercial ideal. Business and social life are in the same bondage. In music,
in drama, in letters, in society, and in trade we permit personality to exploit itself for
commercial purposes. The result is either chaotic or calculated expression on every side. When
temperament seeks restraint in technique, and policy, whether business or social, seeks freedom
in service, then shall we have that balanced expression in art, in society, and in trade which
should proceed from the American personality and distinguish American life.

It may seem a far cry from a comment upon American life to the subject of this second study--intelligence
in feeling. Carry the idea of balanced expression from the introduction to the body of this
exposition and the transition is not difficult to make.

"Wonderful technique, but no heart in her singing!" "Tremendous temperament, but no technique!"
"She moves me profoundly, but oh, what a method!" "Her instrument is flawless, but she leaves
me absolutely unmoved." Have you ever heard such comment, or made such comment, or been the
subject of like comment? Diagnosis of the case, whether it be yours or another's, should be
the same--lack of poise in expression, producing the undesirable effect upon the auditor of
no emotion at all, or of unintelligent emotion. To determine just what we mean by intelligent
emotion is our first problem for this study.

An experience I had in visiting a class in interpretation in a well-known school of oratory
some years ago will illustrate the point. The selection for interpretation was the prelude
to the first part of The Vision of Sir Launfal.

    "And what is so rare as a day in June?
    Then, if ever, come perfect days;
    Then Heaven tries earth if it be in tune,
    And over it softly her warm ear lays; ..."

The work was well under way when I entered the class-room. My entrance did not disturb the
expression on the face of the student who was "up before" the class. A Malvolio smile was never
more deliciously indelible. I thought at first my request to see some work in interpretation
had been mistaken and I had been ushered into a class in facial gymnastics. Then I concluded
that Mr. Lowell's poem was being employed as text for an exercise in smiling. Finally the awful
truth came upon me that this teacher of interpretation was seriously attempting to secure from
her pupils an expression which should suggest the spirit of the June day by asking them to
assume the outward sign of joy known as smiling. The result was a ghastly series of facial
contortions, which left at least one auditor's day as bleak as the bleakest December. No intelligent
feeling can be induced in interpreter or auditor by assuming the outward sign of an inward
emotion. Some of you are recalling Mr. James's talk to students, on the reflex theory of emotion,
and are being confused at this point. Let us stop and straighten out the confusion. Mr. James says:

"Action seems to follow feeling, but really action and feeling go together; and by regulating
the action, which is under the more direct control of the will, we can indirectly regulate
the feeling, which is not.

"Thus the sovereign voluntary path to cheerfulness, if our spontaneous cheerfulness be lost,
is to sit up cheerfully, to look round cheerfully, and to act and speak as if cheerfulness
were already there. If such conduct does not make you soon feel cheerful, nothing else on that
occasion can. So to feel brave, act as if we were brave, use all our will to that end, and
a courage-fit will very likely replace the fit of fear."

The application of this principle to the reading of these lines would seem to justify the method
the teacher was pursuing. A smile is acceptedly the indication of happy emotion, the outward
symbol of inward rejoicing or joy. The June day is full of joyful emotion,--the joy of awakening
life. Applying Mr. James's theory, a legitimate way to induce the inward emotion would seem
to be to assume the outward sign. But wait a moment. Let us look to our premises. Mr. Lanier,
who sings of Nature with joyful understanding, cries in Sunrise:

    "Tell me, sweet burly-bark'd, man-bodied Tree
    That mine arms in the dark are embracing, dost know
    From what fount are these tears at thy feet which flow?
    They rise not from reason, but deeper inconsequent deeps.
    Reason's not one that weeps.
    What logic of greeting lies
    Betwixt dear over-beautiful trees and the rain of the eyes?"

Here is a great master of verbal expression whose inward joy finds its outward symbol not in
a smile but in a tear. So you and I may respond to Mr. Lowell's "high tide of the year" with
smiles or with tears, with bowed head and closed eyes, or with eyes wide and head raised to
meet the returning flood of life.

The effect upon me of the beauty of this day as Mr. Lowell has painted it, my personal emotional
response is interesting psychology, but is not my concern as an interpreter. My own emotion
and its personal response belong to my preparatory interpretative efforts in the study; but
when the interpretation is ready for the audience-room, the emotion must be assimilated into
the interpretative act and appear only as part of the illumination of the bit of life I am
presenting.

The object of all great art, whether creative or interpretative, is not to exploit the personality
of the artist, but to disclose at some point the personality of the very God himself, which
is life. The revelation not of personal emotion but of universal life is the legitimate aim
of all artistic effort.

Emotional response will accompany every vital mental conception. Abandonment to that response
is a legitimate and necessary part of full comprehension. But such abandonment, as I have said,
belongs to our preparation for expression. Such abandonment must not be taken out of the study
on to the stage. No temperamental expression along any line is fit for the public until it
is controlled by technique, the technique which has been worked out by the masters of every
art, not excluding the art of living.

It is not the effect of June upon you I want from your interpretation, it is the spirit of
June itself. You must let me have my own emotion. Your emotional response was the result of
your mental concept; mine, to be intelligent, must find the same impulse. If you impose your
own emotion upon me mine will be merely an unintelligent reflection of yours. Taking as our
ideal of the interpreter, the absolutely pure medium, bars out every manifestation which calls
attention to the interpreter, and so interferes with the direct message.

"The natural form of expression which literature takes when it passes beyond the normal powers
of prose, is lyric poetry. When your feelings rise beyond a certain degree of stress you need
the stronger beat and vibration of verse; to express the highest joy or the deepest grief poetry
is your natural instrument." Again corroborated in our choice of direction in study by Mr.
Gardiner, let us turn for "material" in the establishment of intelligence in emotion, to the
most intensive type of the literature of feeling,--lyric poetry.

"Every now and then a man will come who will reduce to words--as Mr. Ruskin has done--some
impression of vivid pleasure which has never been reduced to words before. It is only the great
master who makes these advances; by studying his works you may perhaps come somewhere near
the mark that he has set." This further word from the same paragraph should influence us to
pause with Mr. Ruskin's poetry in prose form for a brief study on our way to the lyrics of
Wordsworth and Shelley and Keats, a song from Shakespeare, and some few from the rare, more
modern lyricists. I shall trust you to this by-path under the guidance of The Forms of Prose
Literature, where you will find passages from such masters of prose as Mr. Ruskin and Mr. Stevenson--passages
of surpassing lyric beauty which shall furnish models for your correlated study in Description.

SUGGESTIVE ANALYSIS

I have chosen for suggestive analysis of the lyric, Shelley's ode To a Skylark.

How shall we create an atmosphere for the reading of these verses! How can we catch the spirit
of the creator of them! Shall we ever feel ready to voice that first line? Do you know Jules
Breton's picture The Lark? Do you love it? Go, then, and stand before it, actually or in imagination.
Let something of the spirit which informs that lovely child, lifting her eyes, her head in
an attitude of listening rapture, steal over you. I know her power. I have tested it. In reading
the "Skylark" with a class of boys and girls from twelve to fourteen years old, I tried the
experiment. I happened to have with me a beautiful copy of Breton's picture. I took it to the
class-room. I wrote on the blackboard verses of the poem and hung the picture over them. The
picture taught them to read the poem. The eyes of the girl became their teacher. I tried the
experiment, with a private pupil in my studio, with a somewhat different result. I had told
her to bring a copy of Shelley's poems to her next lesson. "Do you know the ode To a Skylark?"
I asked. "Yes," she said. A copy of Breton's picture hung on the wall. "Before you open your
book look at the picture," I said. She obeyed. Her expression, always radiant, deepened its
radiance. "Do you know what the girl is doing?" I asked. "Oh yes, she is listening to the skylark."
"How do you know?" "I have heard the skylark sing." "I never have," I said. "Read the poem
to me." Now when I read the "Skylark," I see the girl in Jules Breton's picture, but I hear
the voice of my English pupil.

An early autumn number of the Atlantic Monthly for 1907 published a poem by Mr. Ridgley Torrence,
entitled The Lesser Children, or A Threnody at the Hunting Season. The poem is worthy, in sentiment
and structure, to be set beside Shelley's ode. Let us compare with the picture which the eighteenth-century
poet has given us this one from our modern song-writer:

    Who has not seen in the high gulf of light
    What, lower, was a bird, but now
    Is moored and altered quite
    Into an island of unshaded joy?
    To whom the mate below upon the bough
    Shouts once and brings him from his high employ.
    Yet speeding he forgot not of the cloud
    Where he from glory sprang and burned aloud,
    But took a little of the day,
    A little of the colored sky,
    And of the joy that would not stay
    He wove a song that cannot die.

Now let us study closely the first verse of the older poem. Spirit and voice must soar in the
first line, "Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!" The two words "hail" and "blithe" are swift-winged
words. Let them fly. Give them their wings. Let them do all they are intended to do. The rhythm
of the whole poem is aspiring. Reverence the rhythm, but keep the thought floating clear above
it in the second line, "Bird thou never wert." With the next two lines the tone must gather
head to be poured forth in the last line, "In profuse strains of unpremeditated art." Let us
make another comparative study. Set on the other side of this picture Lowell's description
of the "little bird" in his prologue to Sir Launfal's vision:

    The little bird sits at his door in the sun,
      Atilt like a blossom among the leaves,
    And lets his illumined being o'errun
      With the deluge of summer it receives.

The second verse of the "Skylark" demands a still higher flight of imagination and tone. Let
us try it.

Again all the words rise and float. Sing them over: higher, higher, springest, fire, wingest,
singing, soar, soaring, singest. The reader must feel himself poised for flight in every word
of the first three verses. Why does the poet say cloud of fire? What is the color of the skylark?

Do you not see that the secret of its beauty lies, for vocal interpretation, in the color of
tone and in the inflection of the words? Say "unseen," dwelling on the second syllable; "shrill
delight," directing shrill over the head of delight; "keen," making it cleave the air like
an arrow; "silver sphere," suggesting a moonlit path across water; "intense" and "narrows,"
letting the tone recede into the "white dawn"; "see," with a vanishing stress; and "feel,"
with a deepening note carried to the end. So we might go on through the twenty-one stanzas
which make up the poem.

Please analyze undirected the next two verses.

In reading the first lines of the next four verses we must avoid monotony.

Vary, if only for variety, the pitch on which you begin each of these first lines. Let the
first three words of the eighth verse, "like a poet," ascend in pitch. Keep the voice level
in the first line of the ninth verse, "like a high-born maiden." Let the pitch fall in the
first words of the tenth stanza, "like a glowworm golden." And again keep the tone level on
the first line of the next stanza, "like a rose embower'd."

SELECTIONS FOR INTERPRETATION

The following selections from lyric poetry are designed to give the voice exercise in the expression
of varied emotions.

II

    BY THE SEA

    It is a beauteous evening, calm and free;
    The holy time is quiet as a Nun
    Breathless with adoration; the broad sun
    Is sinking down in its tranquillity;

    The gentleness of heaven is on the Sea:
    Listen! the mighty Being is awake,
    And doth with his eternal motion make
    A sound like thunder--everlastingly.

    Dear child! dear girl! that walkest with me here,
    If thou appear untouch'd by solemn thought
    Thy nature is not therefore less divine:
    Thou liest in Abraham's bosom all the year,
    And worship'st at the Temple's inner shrine,
    God being with thee when we know it not.

                                           --WORDSWORTH.

    Though babbling only to the vale
      Of sunshine and of flowers,
    Thou bringest unto me a tale
      Of visionary hours.

    To seek thee did I often rove
      Through woods and on the green;
    And thou wert still a hope, a love,
      Still long'd for, never seen!

    And I can listen to thee yet,
      Can lie upon the plain
    And listen, till I do beget
      That golden time again.

    O blesséd Bird! the earth we pace
      Again appears to be
    An unsubstantial, faery place,
      That is fit home for Thee!

                                           --WORDSWORTH.
      Be through my lips to unawaken'd earth
    The trumpet of a prophecy! O Wind,
    If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?

                                           --SHELLEY.
    Wouldst thou me?--And I replied
              No, not thee!
    What men or gods are these? What maidens loth?

VII

    It was a lover and his lass
      With a hey and a ho, and a hey nonino!
    That o'er the green corn-field did pass
    In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
    When birds do sing hey ding a ding:
      Sweet lovers love the Spring.

    Between the acres of the rye
    These pretty country folks would lie:
    This carol they began that hour,
    How that life was but a flower:

    And therefore take the present time
      With a hey and a ho and a hey nonino!

VIII

    Pack, clouds, away, and welcome day,
      With night we banish sorrow;
    Sweet air blow soft, mount larks aloft
      To give my Love good-morrow!
    Wings from the wind to please her mind
      Notes from the lark I'll borrow;
    Bird, prune thy wing, nightingale sing,
      To give my Love good-morrow;
        To give my Love good-morrow
        Notes from them both I'll borrow.

    Wake from thy nest, Robin-red-breast,
      Sing, birds, in every furrow;
    And from each hill, let music shrill
      Give my fair Love good-morrow!
    Blackbird and thrush in every bush,
      Stare, linnet, and cock-sparrow!
    You pretty elves, amongst yourselves
      Sing my fair Love good-morrow;
        To give my Love good-morrow
        Sing, birds, in every furrow!

                                           --HEYWOOD.

IX

    THE PASSIONATE SHEPHERD TO HIS LOVE

    Come live with me and be my Love,
    And we will all the pleasures prove
    That hills and valleys, dale and field,
    And all the craggy mountains yield.

    There will we sit upon the rocks
    And see the shepherds feed their flocks,
    By shallow rivers, to whose falls
    Melodious birds sing madrigals.

    There will I make thee beds of roses
    And a thousand fragrant posies,
    A cap of flowers, and a kirtle
    Embroider'd all with leaves of myrtle.

    A gown made of the finest wool,
    Which from our pretty lambs we pull,
    Fair linéd slippers for the cold,
    With buckles of the purest gold.

    A belt of straw and ivy buds
    With coral clasps and amber studs:
    And if these pleasures may thee move,
    Come live with me and be my Love.

    Thy silver dishes for thy meat
    As precious as the gods do eat,
    Shall on an ivory table be
    Prepared each day for thee and me.

    The shepherd swains shall dance and sing
    For thy delight each May-morning:
    If these delights thy mind may move,
    Then live with me and be my Love.

                                           --MARLOWE.

X

    HUNTING SONG

    Waken, lords and ladies gay,
    On the mountain dawns the day;
    All the jolly chase is here
    With hawk and horse and hunting-spear;
    Hounds are in their couples yelling,
    Hawks are whistling, horns are knelling,
    Merrily, merrily mingle they,
    "Waken, lords and ladies gay."

    Louder, louder chant the lay
    Waken, lords and ladies gay!
    Tell them youth and mirth and glee
    Run a course as well as we;
    Time, stern huntsman! who can baulk,
    Stanch as hound and fleet as hawk;
    Think of this, and rise with day,
    Gentle lords and ladies gay!

                                           --SCOTT.

XII

    JAUN'S SONG FROM THE SPANISH GYPSY

    Memory,
    Tell to me
    What is fair
    Past compare
      In the land of Tubal?

    Is it Spring's
    Lovely things,
    Blossoms white,
    Rosy dight?
      Then it is Pepita.

    Summer's crest
    Red-gold tressed,
      Corn-flowers peeping under?
    Idle noons,
    Lingering moons,
    Sudden cloud,
    Lightning's shroud,

    Sudden rain,
    Quick again
      Smiles where late was thunder?
    Are all these
    Made to please?
      So too is Pepita.

    Autumn's prime,
    Apple-time,
    Smooth cheek round,
    Heart all sound?--
    Is it this
    You would kiss?
      Then it is Pepita.

    You can bring
    No sweet thing,
    But my mind
    Still shall find
      It is my Pepita.

    Memory
    Says to me
    It is she--
    She is fair
    Past compare
      In the land of Tubal.

XIII

    PABLO'S SONG FROM THE SPANISH GYPSY

    Spring comes hither,
      Buds the rose;
    Roses wither,
      Sweet spring goes.
        Ojala, would she carry me!

    Summer soars--
      Wide-winged day,
    White light pours,
      Flies away.
        Ojala, would he carry me!

    Soft winds blow,
      Westward born,
    Onward go
      Toward the morn.
        Ojala, would they carry me!

    Sweet birds sing
      O'er the graves,
    Then take wing
      O'er the waves.
        Ojala, would they carry me!

                                           --GEORGE ELIOT.

XIV

    MEMORY[5]

[5] This and the following poem appear by special permission of Houghton Mifflin Company, the
publishers of Mr. Aldrich's poems.

    My mind lets go a thousand things,
    Like dates of wars and deaths of kings,
    And yet recalls the very hour--
    'Twas noon by yonder village tower,
    And on the last blue noon in May--
    The wind came briskly up this way,
    Crisping the brook beside the road;
    Then, pausing here, set down its load
    Of pine-scents, and shook listlessly
    Two petals from that wild-rose-tree.

XV

    ENAMOURED ARCHITECT OF AIRY RHYME

    Enamoured architect of airy rhyme,
        Build as thou wilt; heed not what each man says:
        Good souls, but innocent of dreamer's ways,
    Will come, and marvel why thou wastest time;
    Others, beholding how thy turrets climb
      'Twixt theirs and heaven, will hate thee all thy days;
      But most beware of those who come to praise.
    O Wondersmith, O Worker in sublime
    And Heaven-sent dreams, let art be all in all;
      Build as thou wilt, unspoiled by praise or blame,
        Build as thou wilt, and as thy light is given:
    Then, if at last the airy structure fall,
      Dissolve, and vanish--take thyself no shame.
        They fail, and they alone, who have not striven.

                                           --THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH.

XVI

    LOVE IN THE WINDS[6]

[6] From Along the Trail, by Richard Hovey. Copyright, 1898, by Small, Maynard & Co., Duffield
& Co., successors.

    When I am standing on a mountain crest,
      Or hold the tiller in the dashing spray,
    My love of you leaps foaming in my breast,
      Shouts with the winds and sweeps to their foray;
    My heart bounds with the horses of the sea,
      And plunges in the wild ride of the night
    Flaunts in the teeth of tempest the large glee
      That rides out Fate and welcomes gods to fight.
    Ho, love, I laugh aloud for love of you,
      Glad that our love is fellow to rough weather,--
    No fretful orchid hot-housed from the dew,
      But hale and hardy as the highland heather,
    Rejoicing in the wind that stings and thrills,
    Comrades of ocean, playmate of the hills.

                                           --RICHARD HOVEY.

XVII

    CANDLEMAS[7]

[7] By permission of Houghton Mifflin Company.

    O hearken, all ye little weeds
      That lie beneath the snow,
      (So low, dear hearts, in poverty so low!)
    The sun hath risen for royal deeds,
    A valiant wind the vanguard leads;
    Now quicken ye, lest unborn seeds
      Before ye rise and blow.

    O furry living things, adream
      On Winter's drowsy breast,
      (How rest ye there, how softly, safely rest!)
    Arise and follow where a gleam
    Of wizard gold unbinds the stream,
    And all the woodland windings seem
      With sweet expectance blest.

    My birds, come back! the hollow sky
      Is weary for your note.
      (Sweet-throat, come back! O liquid, mellow throat!)
    Ere May's soft minions hereward fly,
    Shame on ye, laggards, to deny
    The brooding breast, the sun-bright eye,
      The tawny, shining coat!

                                           --ALICE BROWN.

Mr. Gilbert Chesterton tells us that the real Robert Browning of literary history arrived with
the Dramatic Lyrics. "In Dramatic Lyrics," says Mr. Chesterton, "Browning discovered the one
thing that he could really do better than any one else--the dramatic lyric. The form is absolutely
original; he had discovered a new field of poetry, and in the center of that field he had found
himself." The form is new, but it obeys the fundamental law of lyric poetry, and so in our
study belongs to this chapter. The new element which the word "dramatic" suggests makes a new
and a somewhat broader demand upon the interpreter; therefore I have chosen this group of Dramatic
Lyrics from Browning as the material for your final study of this form:

    MY STAR

    All that I know
      Of a certain star
    Is, it can throw
      (Like the angled spar)
    Now a dart of red,
      Now a dart of blue;
    Till my friends have said
      They would fain see, too,
      My star that dartles the red and the blue!
    Then it stops like a bird; like a flower, hangs furled:
      They must solace themselves with the Saturn above it.
    What matter to me if their star is a world?
      Mine has opened its soul to me; therefore I love it.

CAVALIER TUNES

    MARCHING ALONG

    Kentish Sir Byng stood for his King,
    Bidding the crop-headed Parliament swing.
    And, pressing a troop unable to stoop
    And see the rogues flourish and honest folk droop,
    Marched them along, fifty-score strong,
    Great-hearted gentlemen, singing this song.

    God for King Charles! Pym and such carles
    To the Devil that prompts 'em their treasonous parles!
    Cavaliers, up!

    Hampden to hell, and his obsequies' knell
    Serve Hazelrig, Fiennes, and young Harry as well!
    England, good cheer! Rupert is near!
    Hold by the right, you double your might;
    So, onward to Nottingham, fresh for the fight.

GARDEN FANCIES

    THE FLOWER'S NAME

    Here's the garden she walked across,
      Arm in my arm, such a short while since.
    Hark, now I push its wicket, the moss
      Hinders the hinges and makes them wince!
    She must have reached this shrub ere she turned,
      As back with that murmur the wicket swung;
    For she laid the poor snail, my chance foot spurned,
      To feed and forget it the leaves among.

    Down this side of the gravel walk
      She went while her robe's edge brushed the box:
    And here she paused in her gracious talk
      To point me a moth on the milk-white phlox.
    Roses, ranged in valiant row,
      I will never think that she passed you by!
    She loves you, noble roses, I know;
      But yonder, see, where the rock-plants lie!

    This flower she stopped at, finger on lip,
      Stooped over, in doubt, as settling its claim;
    Till she gave me, with pride to make no slip,
      Its soft meandering Spanish name.
    What a name! Was it love or praise?
      Speech half-asleep or song half-awake?
    I must learn Spanish, one of these days,
      Only for that slow sweet name's sake.

    Roses, if I live and do well,
      I may bring her, one of these days,
    To fix you fast with as fine a spell,
      Fit you each with his Spanish phrase;
    But do not detain me now; for she lingers
      There, like sunshine over the ground,
    And ever I see her soft white fingers
      Searching after the bud she found.

    Flower, you Spaniard, look that you grow not,
      Stay as you are and be loved forever!
    Bud, if I kiss you 'tis that you blow not:
      Mind, the shut pink mouth opens never!
    For while it pouts, her fingers wrestle,
      Twinkling the audacious leaves between,
    Till round they turn and down they nestle--
      Is not the dear mark still to be seen?

    Where I find her not, beauties vanish;
      Whither I follow her, beauties flee;
    Is there no method to tell her in Spanish
      June's twice June since she breathed it with me?
    Come, bud, show me the least of her traces,
      Treasure my lady's lightest footfall!
    --Ah, you may flout and turn up your faces--
      Roses, you are not so fair after all!

                                           --BROWNING.

That "the poet is born, not made," is more and more an undisputed fact in every literary age.
But many a birthright of poetic power has been saved from sale for a mess of pottage by a wisely
ordered meeting of the young bard, while his gift was still latent, with the masters of lyric
expression.

Such an introduction is the object of this study, so far as it can embrace in its aim the ends
of both forms of expression,--interpretation and composition. There is no thought of inducing
even an aspirant to the poetical purple, much less a Shelley or a Keats or an Alice Brown,
through this brief dwelling with their immortal songs; but if this intensive interpretative
study of the highest lyric expression does not result in a new sense of word values, a new
sensitiveness to the music of the English language, out of which the songs of America must
be made, then the study will have failed in its purpose toward you. If from this suggestive
analysis of Shelley's "Skylark" you receive no impulse to use words with a new delight in the
fitting of sound to sense, a new reverence for their harmonious arrangement to suggest and
sustain an atmosphere; if, in short, your vocabulary is not enriched and your choice of words
clarified through this study, then your new acquaintance with lyric expression will have been
in vain. And, finally, if some one of you at least is not impelled by these excursions into
the world of song to use his enriched vocabulary in an attempt to create a bit of lyric description
in prose or verse, then the author of this study, and the teacher under whose direction it
is made, must admit a failure to reach with the pupil the ultimate aim of such interpretative
effort.

Let us make the test. As a final problem of this study I shall ask you to let your emotion
find expression--lyric expression--in a bit of prose description. Don't be afraid! Use your
vocabulary! Take as a subject: the bit of earth and sky you have secretly worshiped; the bird
song or flight which has charmed your day; the memory of some illumined moment; the effect
of any one of these lyrics upon you. Don't be afraid! And remember it is to be literature of
feeling rather than thought; description, not exposition.

THIRD STUDY

TO DEVELOP THE WHIMSICAL SENSE

Addressing the Gentle Reader in deliciously whimsical vein on the Mission of Humor, Mr. Samuel
Arthur Crothers declares: "Were I appointed by the school board to consider the applicants
for teachers' certificates, after they had passed the examinations in the arts and sciences,
I should subject them to a more rigid test. I should hand each candidate Lamb's essays on 'The
Old and New Schoolmaster' and on 'Imperfect Sympathies.' I should make him read them to himself,
while I sat by and watched. If his countenance never relaxed, as if he were inwardly saying,
'That's so,' I should withhold the certificate. I should not consider him a fit person to have
charge of innocent youth." We can readily see from this extract that we need not go back to
the early part of the last century to find material for our test of this sovereign quality,
a sense of humor. Mr. Crothers himself, the Charles Lamb of our American Letters to-day, shall
furnish our subject-matter. Bring your Gentle Reader, or The Pardoner's Wallet, or the essays
collected with the Christmas Sermon, to class to-morrow. If these volumes are not in your personal
library, your library is sadly lacking. Read "The Honorable Points of Ignorance," "How to Know
the Fallacies," or "Conscience Concerning Witchcraft." If any one of these fails to disclose
in you the mental alertness and power of discrimination which their author considers to be
requisite characteristics of a true sense of humor, then you are sadly lacking in that coveted
quality of mind and heart, and it behooves us to make an attempt to supply these deficiencies.

Can a sense of humor be cultivated, and if it can be cultivated, is it safe to do so? some
one asks--some one who has suffered at the hands of a clever jester perhaps. By way of arriving
at an answer, let us examine a little further the category of qualities which Mr. Crothers
considers requisite to true humor.

We have already noted mental alertness and power of discrimination. There can be no question
as to the desirability or feasibility of developing these characteristics, since such development
belongs to the fundamental effort of education. But these are but two characteristics of the
quality we are considering, and not the distinguishing ones. "Humor," continues the category,
"is the frank enjoyment of the imperfect." Now we scent a danger! For if, as Mr. Crothers admits,
"artistic sensibility finds satisfaction only in the perfect," and since, as we all admit,
artistic sensibility is an end in education devoutly to be desired, then is not a cultivation
of the "frank enjoyment of the imperfect," oh dear and gentle humorist, a dangerous indulgence?
The conclusive answer comes: "One may have learned to enjoy the sublime, the beautiful, the
useful, the orderly, but he has missed something if he has not also learned to enjoy the incongruous,
the illusive, and the unexpected." It is a conclusive reply, because we know that it is just
as essential to achievement in the finest of the Fine Arts,--the art of living, as in every
other form of Art, to recognize that the inrush of discord is for the final issue of harmony;
that only through our ability to recognize illusion shall we come to know reality; that only
through sensitiveness to the incongruous shall we develop a true sense of the fitness of things;
that only frank enjoyment can disarm imperfection and find satisfaction in the perfect. So
let us not hesitate to do all we can to cultivate a quality which Thackeray defines as a mixture
of love and wit; to which Erasmus ascribes such desirable characteristics as good temper and
insight into human nature; and for one grade of which, in addition to all its other qualities,
Mr. Crothers claims "that it can proceed only from a mind free from any taint of morbidness."

If then we conclude that it is not only safe, but possible and desirable, to cultivate a sense
of humor, how shall we set about it? To answer you, as to one way at least, and that a way
of interpretation, Mr. Crothers "is left alive," not only to furnish new material for the exercise
of the sense, but to point a gently reminding finger toward the immortal sources of good humor,--"Chaucer
and Cervantes and Montaigne; Shakespeare and Bacon and Fielding and Addison; Goldsmith, Charles
Lamb, and Walter Scott, and in our own country, Irving and Dr. Holmes and James Russell Lowell."
Whatever period of time your schedule grants to this phase of the work should be dedicated
to a closer acquaintance with the flavor and atmosphere of these great-hearted humorists in
their most genial moments. Let us also heed Mr. Crothers' warning against the humor of the
Dean Swifts which "would be so irresistible were it not bad humor." Let us avoid more intimate
acquaintance with the broad variety furnished by the Mark Twains and Mr. Dooleys, which may
be legitimately classed as "good humor," but which is so obvious as to be little conducive
to that mental alertness and power of discrimination which we aim to acquire through this study.
Instead, let us seek the gracious company of William Dean Howells in the whimsical mood he
so often induces.

Accepting, then, as a distinguishing characteristic of the humor we desire to cultivate, ability
to enjoy the incongruous, the illusive, and the unexpected, let us look to a master maker of
these conditions for class-room guidance in this effort. I suppose Mr. Lewis Carroll has done
more to develop this distinguishing characteristic than any other contributor to our Letters.
So we shall go on an excursion with his Alice into the Wonderland he made for her. If her frank
enjoyment and free acceptance of the incongruous and the unexpected does not prove infectious,
we must be forever written down among those who could not understand Peter Pan. We shall read
and enjoy a chapter or two of Alice together in class, but for suggestive analysis along interpretative
lines Heaven forbid that I should lay violent hands on her text. No one can teach you to interpret
your Alice save Alice herself. You may walk with her, talk with her, dwindle and grow with
her, join her adventures in any way she will permit, but you may not analyze nor dissect her.
You may learn to interpret her only by living with her and loving her.

Now Æsop is another matter. However long you may live with him, however much you may love his
fables, there is a trick of interpretation to be learned in voicing his philosophy which will
develop the whimsical side of your sense of humor and counteract the insistent moral tone attached
to every fable.

SUGGESTIVE ANALYSIS

The danger in handling a fable does not lie, as the interpreter seems so often to think, in
adopting too serious a tone. All the literature of pure fancy, from the humorous essays of
Bacon through the Arabian Nights to the nonsensical rhymes of Lear, must be treated with great
gravity of tone and temper by the interpreter. It is not levity, but only whimsicality of temperament,
I demand from one who would read from this particular lore to me. I want my whimsical friend
to interpret my Chaucer and Crothers, Peter Pan and the Pied Piper, Hans Christian Andersen,
Carroll, and Lear, and all the rest of the genial host who minister to my most precious sense
of nonsense. And, perhaps, most of all, it is he (the whimsical friend) who must read fables
to me, for a fable, the dictionary tells us, is "a story in which, by the imagined dealings
of men with animals or mere things, or by the supposed doings of these alone, useful lessons
are taught." Now a moral "rubbed in" is like an overdose of certain kinds of medicine, where
a little cures, too much kills. It is the presence of the lesson which the whimsical tone alone
can offset. The whimsical tone never falls into the monotone. Whimsicality always seeks variety
of emphasis and movement.

How shall we avoid the monotony of the lines beginning "Then he took another pebble and dropped
it into the pitcher"? Note that this line is followed by one in which but two words are changed,
and then by a line with but one change, and then by three lines with no change at all. Our
only hope lies in a variation of emphasis and movement--a whimsical variation. Try it! Give
"another" the particular stress in reading the first of these lines. Pause at the close of
the line as if to study the effect of the pebble. In the next line "that," of course, takes
the emphasis. Pause before the word and give it a salient stress. The movement of the voice
through these two lines has been deliberate. On the next line hasten it a little, and make
the pause at the close of the line shorter. With the fourth line let the tone settle down to
work. Give each of the first five words equal stress. With the fifth and last line let us feel
that you may "go on forever," and surprise us with a very short pause and a joyful stress upon
"at last, at last," and don't fail to let the enthusiasm of your tone give us the full sense
of the relief which comes with the mounting of the water, and the delight in the conclusion--"he
was able to quench his thirst and save his life." And now, most whimsically, let us voice the
moral, "Little by little does the trick."

     THE WIND AND THE SUN

     The wind and the sun were disputing which was the stronger.
     Suddenly they saw a traveler coming down the road, and the sun
     said: "I see a way to decide our dispute. Whichever of us can cause
     that traveler to take off his cloak shall be regarded as the
     stronger. You begin." So the sun retired behind a cloud, and the
     wind began to blow as hard as he could upon the traveler. But the
     harder he blew the more closely did the traveler wrap his cloak
     round him, till at last the wind had to give up in despair. Then
     the sun came out and shone in all his glory upon the traveler, who
     soon found it too hot to walk with his cloak on.

     Kindness effects more than severity.

And, now, here is Alice herself to play with a little. Go fearlessly into her Wonderland and
let her teach you "how to meet the illusive, the incongruous, and the unexpected." Let her
minister to your ability to enjoy the imperfect. Let her develop your sense of humor. If she
cannot do so no one can.

     DOWN THE RABBIT-HOLE[8]

     [8] These following selections are taken from Harper & Brothers'
     edition of Alice in Wonderland and Alice Through the
     Looking-Glass.

     Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on
     the bank, and of having nothing to do; once or twice she had peeped
     into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or
     conversations in it, "and what is the use of a book," thought
     Alice, "without pictures or conversations?"

     So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for
     the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid) whether the
     pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of
     getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit
     with pink eyes ran close by her.

     There was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor did Alice think
     it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself,
     "Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be too late!" (when she thought it over
     afterward, it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at
     this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural); but when the
     Rabbit actually took a watch out of its waistcoat-pocket, and
     looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to her feet, for
     it flashed across her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit
     with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take out of it, and,
     burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after it, and
     fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole
     under the hedge.

     In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering
     how in the world she was to get out again.

     The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and
     then dipped suddenly down--so suddenly that Alice had not a moment
     to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling
     down a very steep well.

     Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
     plenty of time as she went down to look about her, and to wonder
     what was going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and
     make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see
     anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and noticed
     that they were filled with cupboards and bookshelves; here and
     there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs. She took down a
     jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was labeled "ORANGE
     MARMALADE," but to her great disappointment it was empty. She did
     not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody, so managed
     to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it.

     "Well!" thought Alice to herself. "After such a fall as this, I
     shall think nothing of tumbling down-stairs! How brave they'll all
     think me at home! Why, I wouldn't say anything about it, even if I
     fell off the top of the house!" (Which was very likely true.)

     Down, down, down. Would the fall never come to an end? "I wonder
     how many miles I've fallen by this time?" she said, aloud. "I must
     be getting somewhere near the center of the earth. Let me see: that
     would be four thousand miles down, I think--" (for, you see, Alice
     had learned several things of this sort in her lessons in the
     school-room, and though this was not a very good opportunity for
     showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to listen to her,
     still it was good practice to say it over) "--yes, that's about the
     right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I've
     got to?" (Alice had no idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either,
     but thought they were nice, grand words to say.)

     Presently she began again. "I wonder if I shall fall right
     through the earth? How funny it'll seem to come out among the
     people that walk with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I
     think--" (she was rather glad there was no one listening this
     time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) "--but I shall have
     to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. 'Please,
     ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?'" (and she tried to
     courtesy as she spoke--fancy courtesying as you're falling
     through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) "And what an
     ignorant little girl she'll think me! No, it'll never do to ask;
     perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere."

     Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began
     talking again. "Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I should
     think!" (Dinah was the cat.) "I hope they'll remember her saucer of
     milk at tea-time. Dinah, my dear, I wish you were down here with
     me! There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a
     bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats,
     I wonder?" And here Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on
     saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of way, "Do cats eat bats? Do
     cats eat bats?" and sometimes, "Do bats eat cats?" for, you see, as
     she couldn't answer either question, it didn't much matter which
     way she put it. She felt that she was dozing off, and had just
     begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and
     saying to her very earnestly, "Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: did
     you ever eat a bat?" when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came
     upon a heap of dry leaves, and the fall was over.

     Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on her feet in a
     moment. She looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was
     another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight,
     hurrying down it. There was not a moment to be lost; away went
     Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it
     turned a corner, "Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it's getting!"
     She was close behind it when she turned the corner, but the Rabbit
     was no longer to be seen; she found herself in a long, low hall,
     which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof.

     There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and
     when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other,
     trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how
     she was ever to get out again.

     Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
     solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and
     Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors
     of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large or the key
     was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them.
     However, the second time round she came upon a low curtain she had
     not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about fifteen
     inches high. She tried the little golden key in the lock, and to
     her great delight it fitted!

     Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage,
     not much larger than a rat-hole. She knelt down and looked along
     the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed
     to get out of that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of
     bright flowers and those cool fountains, but she could not even get
     her head through the doorway! "And even if my head would go
     through," thought poor Alice, "it would be of very little use
     without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a
     telescope! I think I could, if I only knew how to begin." For, you
     see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately that Alice
     had begun to think that very few things indeed were really
     impossible.

     There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
     went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
     it, or, at any rate, a book of rules for shutting people up like
     telescopes. This time she found a little bottle on it ("which
     certainly was not here before," said Alice), and round its neck a
     paper label, with the words "DRINK ME" beautifully printed on it in
     large letters.

     It was all very well to say "Drink me," but the wise little Alice
     was not going to do that in a hurry. "No, I'll look first," she
     said, "and see whether it's marked 'poison' or not"; for she had
     read several nice little histories about children who had got
     burned, and eaten up by wild beasts, and many other unpleasant
     things, all because they would not remember the simple rules
     their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot poker will
     burn you if you hold it too long; and that, if you cut your finger
     very deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had never
     forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked "poison,"
     it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later.

     However, this bottle was not marked "poison," so Alice ventured
     to taste it, and, finding it very nice (it had, in fact, a sort of
     mixed flavor of cherry-tart, custard, pineapple, roast turkey,
     toffee, and hot buttered toast), she very soon finished it off.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "What a curious feeling!" said Alice. "I must be shutting up like a
     telescope."

     And so it was, indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her
     face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size
     for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First,
     however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to
     shrink any further: she felt a little nervous about this, "for it
     might end, you know," said Alice, "in my going out altogether, like
     a candle. I wonder what I should be like then?" And she tried to
     fancy what the flame of a candle is like after it is blown out, for
     she could not remember ever having seen such a thing.

     After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided to
     go into the garden at once, but, alas for poor Alice! when she got
     to the door she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and
     when she went back to the table for it she found she could not
     possibly reach it. She could see it quite plainly through the
     glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the table-legs,
     but it was too slippery; and when she had tired herself out with
     trying, the poor little thing sat down and cried.

     "Come, there's no use in crying like that!" said Alice to herself,
     rather sharply. "I advise you to leave off this minute!" She
     generally gave herself very good advice (though she very seldom
     followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to
     bring tears in her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her
     own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was
     playing against herself, for this curious child was very fond of
     pretending to be two people. "But it's no use now," thought poor
     Alice, "to pretend to be two people! Why, there's hardly enough of
     me left to make one respectable person!"

     Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the
     table. She opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which
     the words "EAT ME" were beautifully marked in currants. "Well, I'll
     eat it," said Alice, "and if it makes me larger I can reach the
     key, and if it makes me smaller I can creep under the door; so,
     either way, I'll get into the garden, and I don't care which
     happens!"

     She ate a little bit and said anxiously to herself, "Which way?
     Which way?" holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which
     way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she
     remained the same size. To be sure, this generally happens when one
     eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting
     nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen that it seemed quite
     dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way.

     So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

       *       *       *       *       *

     THE POOL OF TEARS

     "Curiouser and curiouser!" cried Alice (she was so much surprised
     that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English);
     "now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that ever was!
     Good-by, feet!" (for when she looked down at her feet they seemed
     to be almost out of sight, they were getting so far off). "Oh, my
     poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings
     for you now, dears? I'm sure I sha'n't be able! I shall be a
     great deal too far off to trouble myself about you: you must manage
     the best way you can--but I must be kind to them," thought Alice,
     "or perhaps they won't walk the way I want to go! Let me see; I'll
     give them a new pair of boots every Christmas."

     And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. "They
     must go by the carrier," she thought; "and how funny it'll seem,
     sending presents to one's own feet! And how odd the directions will
     look!--

    Alice's Right Foot, Esq.
                  Hearthrug,
                          near the Fender
                                  (with Alice's love).

     Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!"

     Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall--in fact she
     was now more than nine feet high--and she at once took up the
     little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

     Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side,
     to look through into the garden with one eye, but to get through
     was more hopeless than ever. She sat down and began to cry again.

     "You ought to be ashamed of yourself," said Alice--"a great girl
     like you" (she might well say this), "to go on crying in this way!
     Stop this moment, I tell you!" But she went on all the same,
     shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round
     her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the hall.

     After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance,
     and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the
     White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white
     kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other. He came
     trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself as he came,
     "Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she be savage if I've
     kept her waiting!" Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to
     ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit came near her, she began,
     in a low, timid voice, "If you please, sir--" The Rabbit started
     violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and scurried
     away into the darkness as hard as he could go.

     Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot,
     she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking: "Dear,
     dear! How queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on
     just as usual. I wonder if I've been changed in the night? Let me
     think: was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I
     can remember feeling a little different. But if I'm not the same,
     the next question is, Who in the world am I? Ah, that's the great
     puzzle!" And she began thinking over all the children she knew that
     were of the same age as herself, to see if she could have been
     changed for any of them.

     "I'm sure I'm not Ada," she said, "for her hair goes in such long
     ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm sure I
     can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she
     knows such a very little! Besides, she's she and I'm I, and--oh
     dear, how puzzling it all is! I'll try if I know all the things I
     used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times
     six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear! I shall never
     get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table
     doesn't signify: let's try Geography. London is the capital of
     Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome--no, that's all
     wrong, I'm certain! I must have been changed for Mabel! I'll try
     and say 'How doth the little--'" and she crossed her hands on her
     lap as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it, but her
     voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the
     same as they used to do:

         How doth the little crocodile
           Improve his shining tail,
         And pour the waters of the Nile
           On every golden scale!

         How cheerfully he seems to grin,
           How neatly spread his claws,
         And welcomes little fishes in
           With gently smiling jaws!

     "I'm sure those are not the right words," said poor Alice, and her
     eyes filled with tears again as she went on: "I must be Mabel,
     after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
     house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many
     lessons to learn! No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm Mabel,
     I'll stay down here! It'll be no use their putting their heads down
     and saying, 'Come up again, dear!' I shall only look up and say,
     'Who am I, then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that
     person, I'll come up; if not, I'll stay down here till I'm somebody
     else.' But, oh dear!" cried Alice, with a sudden burst of tears,
     "I do wish they would put their heads down! I am so very tired
     of being all alone here!"

     As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to
     see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little white kid gloves
     while she was talking. "How can I have done that?" she thought.
     "I must be growing small again." She got up and went to the table
     to measure herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could
     guess, she was now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking
     rapidly. She soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she
     was holding, and she dropped it hastily, just in time to avoid
     shrinking away altogether.

     "That was a narrow escape!" said Alice, a good deal frightened at
     the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
     existence; "and now for the garden!" and she ran with all speed
     back to the little door; but, alas! the little door was shut again,
     and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before,
     "and things are worse than ever," thought the poor child, "for I
     never was so small as this before--never! And I declare it's too
     bad, that it is!"

     As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment,
     splash! she was up to her chin in salt water. Her first idea was
     that she had somehow fallen into the sea, "and in that case I can
     go back by railway," she said to herself. (Alice had been to the
     seaside once in her life, and had come to the general conclusion
     that wherever you go to on the English coast you find a number of
     bathing-machines in the sea, some children digging in the sand with
     wooden spades, then a row of lodging-houses, and behind them a
     railway station.) However, she soon made out that she was in the
     pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high.

     "I wish I hadn't cried so much!" said Alice, as she swam about,
     trying to find her way out. "I shall be punished for it now, I
     suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That will be a queer
     thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer to-day."

     Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little
     way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was. At first she
     thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she
     remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that it was
     only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

     "Would it be of any use, now," thought Alice, "to speak to this
     mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here that I should
     think very likely it can talk; at any rate, there's no harm in
     trying." So she began: "O Mouse, do you know the way out of this
     pool? I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!" (Alice
     thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse. She had
     never done such a thing before, but she remembered having seen in
     her brother's Latin Grammar, "A mouse--of a mouse--to a mouse--a
     mouse--O mouse!") The Mouse looked at her rather inquisitively,
     and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said
     nothing.

     "Perhaps it doesn't understand English," thought Alice; "I dare say
     it's a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror." (For
     with all her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion
     how long ago anything had happened.) So she began again: "Ou est ma
     chatte?" which was the first sentence in her French lesson-book.
     The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver
     all over with fright. "Oh, I beg your pardon!" cried Alice,
     hastily, afraid that she had hurt the poor animal's feelings. "I
     quite forgot you didn't like cats."

     "Not like cats!" cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice.
     "Would you like cats if you were me?"

     "Well, perhaps not," said Alice, in a soothing tone. "Don't be
     angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I
     think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is
     such a dear, quiet thing," Alice went on, half to herself, as she
     swam lazily about in the pool, "and she sits purring so nicely by
     the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and she is such a
     nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital one for catching
     mice--oh, I beg your pardon!" cried Alice again, for this time the
     Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt certain it must be
     really offended. "We won't talk about her any more, if you'd rather
     not."

     "We, indeed!" cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of
     his tail. "As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family
     always hated cats--nasty, low, vulgar things! Don't let me hear
     the name again!"

     "I won't, indeed!" said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
     subject of conversation. "Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?" The
     Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly: "There is such a
     nice little dog near our house I should like to show you! A little
     bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long, curly brown
     hair! And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and it'll sit up
     and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I can't remember
     half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says
     it's so useful it's worth a hundred pounds! He says it kills all
     the rats and--oh dear!" cried Alice in a sorrowful tone, "I'm
     afraid I've offended it again!" For the Mouse was swimming away
     from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in
     the pool as it went.

     So she called softly after it, "Mouse dear! Do come back again, and
     we won't talk about cats, or dogs either, if you don't like them!"
     When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to
     her. Its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it
     said in a low, trembling voice, "Let us get to the shore, and then
     I'll tell you my history, and you'll understand why it is I hate
     cats and dogs."

     It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
     with the birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a
     Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
     creatures. Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
     shore.

We must not deny to humor and fancy the opportunity for creative effort offered to other faculties
in our previous studies. What form shall the effort take: fable, fairy tale, a whimsical play
of fancy in essay, or merely a nonsense rhyme? I think we must bar the limerick from our serious
creative efforts in the study. You may engage as a class in an extemporaneous contest in the
making of this infectious form of verse if you like.

Meanwhile, there is still another class-room test of humor which should be made,--the test
of the clever anecdote. There is nothing which so effectually discloses the quality of your
sense of humor as your attitude toward so-called funny stories. Judgment in such a case will
rest upon three points: What you think is "funny" enough to tell; when you judge it "apropos"
to tell; and the manner of the telling. Three warnings are in order at this point. If you find
that you must preface your anecdote with the question too often heard, "Do you think you can
stand this story?--it really is clever," in the name of clean humor, don't tell it! If you
find you must introduce your anecdote with the remark, "Apropos of nothing," or "This is not
apropos, but"--in the name of "sulphitic" humor, don't tell it; finally, if you don't know
how to tell it, in the name of any and all humor, don't tell it.

With these cautions in mind, I shall ask you to bring to class to-morrow your best three "funny
stories." Conflicting choice is not likely to have appropriated all three of your favorite
anecdotes. Should you find that it has done so, never mind. Your taste, though it coincides
with another's, can be quite as well questioned or commended; and the manner of your telling
will be subjected to trial by comparison, which, if not always comfortable, is always helpful
(when met in the right spirit).

Remember, the serious creative work you are to produce is to take the form of a fable, fairy
story, or humorous essay.

FOURTH STUDY

TO DEVELOP IMAGINATIVE VIGOR

In one of the great manufacturing towns of the Northwest there are some twenty-five thousand
girls employed in factories. The city permits conditions of work hostile to the physical life
of these girls. Civic reform is trying to control these conditions. In time it doubtless will
succeed in doing so; meanwhile it makes efforts in other directions. It establishes working
girls' clubs. A class in literature in one of these clubs enlisted the services of a comprehending
young teacher, who kept the girls interested for more than two years. A little girl from a
bag factory entered this class. She came to every meeting of the first year. She did not join
in the discussions nor ask questions nor evince unusual intelligence or enjoyment, but she
came every night. The class began its second year. The little girl from the bag factory was
the first to enroll. The teacher could not cover the surprise in her question, "Are you coming
into the class again?" The girl's breathless "Oh yes" sent her to investigate the case. She
went to the factory. She found the child standing at a bench folding bags. Eight hours a day
she folded bags. A swing back on her right foot with the stuff of which the bag was made grasped
in her hands--a swing forward, and her hands brought the edges of the stuff together evenly.
Over and over a thousand times the single motion repeated made up the girl's day. "It used
to make me tired," she said, simply. "But it doesn't any more?" "No, because now I forget what
I am doing sometimes. I have my book, you see. They let me fasten it here." There it was--a
paper copy of Shelley's poems. The print was good; the teacher had seen to that. She had observed
that factory girls' eyes are not always very strong. The book was fastened to the front of
the desk. The child could catch a line from time to time without interrupting her bag-folding.
"But I know most of the poems we have studied in class by heart." So she had to recall but
a line, and then off she would go through the windows of the stifling factory into the open
fields on the wings of her imagination. She was a swift, sure, little workman; her eye watched
the stuff before her and measured it truly; her hands obeyed her eye, did her work efficiently,
and "kept her job." But the eye of her imagination had been opened in the literature class
and kept her soul alive in spite "of her job." This is a true story. It has significance for
you and me.

If through the use of her imagination a little factory girl can escape from the monotony of
bag-folding, and find freedom and joy in the lyric world Shelley has created, what limit need
be set to our emancipation through the development of this faculty?

But emancipation is but one result of such development. Listen to David as he stands with his
harp before the King in Browning's story of Saul. Already his song has released the monarch
from the depths of his great despair, but now comes the boy's cry:

            What spell or what charm
    (For, awhile there was trouble within me) what next should I urge
    To sustain him where song had restored him?...
            Then fancies grew rife
    Which had come long ago on the pasture, when round me the sheep
    Fed in silence--above, the one eagle wheeled slow as in sleep;
    And I lay in my hollow and mused on the world that might lie
    'Neath his ken, though I saw but the strip 'twixt the hill and the sky:
    And I laughed--"Since my days are ordained to be passed with my flocks,
    Let me people at least, with my fancies, the plains and the rocks,
    Dream the life I am never to mix with, and image the show
    Of mankind as they live in those fashions I hardly shall know!
    Schemes of life, its best rules and right uses, the courage that gains,
    And the prudence that keeps what men strive for."
            And now those old trains
    Of vague thought came again; I grew surer; so, once more the string
    Of my harp made response to my spirit....

So the imagination of the young shepherd boy had not only disregarded the limits of his actual
environment and escaped in fancy to the great world beyond, but so vividly had he realized
that world through his imagination that his sympathies had been made broad to comprehend a
monarch's need and his song potent to meet it. Experience alone gives comprehension. We are
prone to think that experience is limited by our actual horizon. We need to know that experience
has no limit save that which is set by the limit of our imaginative insight. No door of life
is closed to the imaginative mind and heart. The world is its playground to wander in at will.
Experience, and thorough experience, comprehension of life is at the command of imagination.

Life can be intelligently apprehended on the material plane through trained senses. Life can
be vividly realized on the spirit's plane only through a trained imagination. It is only vivid
realization of life at every point which makes it worth living. You may see the lark long after
he is lost to my duller eye in our common sky, you may hear the song when my less keen ear
no longer catches a faintest thread of melody; but unless the eye and ear of your imagination
match mine you shall not vividly realize flight or song, and so I shall follow both long after
they are lost to you. Your skylark will pass with the moment of his rapturous song-flight,
while mine shall remain forever a spirit of joy to be recalled at will for my spirit's refreshing.

Looking then upon imagination as a key to that comprehension of life which clarifies and constitutes
its worth, let us eagerly enter upon the cultivation of such power. We have left this question
of imaginative development as a definite exercise to a fifth place in our interpretative study,
not because it is less vital to effective expression than the first four subjects we have considered,
but because balanced expression is our aim, and imagination once given free play may easily
impair that harmonious development of all our faculties which makes for balance in expression.
Of course there is no phase of the study of interpretation which, when rightly conducted, does
not indirectly or directly involve the training of the imagination. On the other hand, training
of the imagination wisely conducted may comprehend and carry on development along all other
lines of evolution in expression. A sensitive imagination trained and controlled to its highest
power of apprehension must make for sympathy and intelligence in thought and feeling, keep
humor sane, and give direction to purpose. But imaginative vigor set free to the uses of thought
and emotion already disciplined, to conscious purpose and to good humor, becomes a safe master
of expressive living.

The material through which we are to exercise the imagination and develop imaginative vigor
is the narrative form of discourse. Narration is successful when it records or has the effect
of recording actual experience. A story (according to the authority we so often invoke,--Mr.
Gardiner), "whether it be as simple as those of the Book of Genesis or as complex as Mr. James
or Mr. Meredith, must carry the effect of the concreteness, and, as it were, the solidity of
life." The plot, the characters, the setting of a story which is to live, must have the vividness
of real experience. This does not mean that the creator of the story must have actually experienced
the plot, the people, and the pictures which together make up his tale--they may be the product
of actual experience or of imagination--but it does mean that while he is putting these elements
together and creating his narrative he must realize as though it were actual experience the
incident of his plot with the characters and in the atmosphere of his creation. Such realization
can only come through vivid imagination.

Exactly the same demand is made upon the imagination of the interpreter. When you retell the
tale of a master creator of stories your interpretation will be convincing, exactly as was
his creation,--through the lucid play of a vivid imagination. You must make me feel that I
am in the presence of incidents, characters, pictures which you yourself have experienced.
Nay, more, you must make me feel that I myself am actually meeting these people, seeing these
pictures, taking part in these incidents, as you relive for me in imagination at the moment
of your interpretation the tale you are retelling to me.

SUGGESTIVE ANALYSIS

We shall use for suggestive analysis in this study not a complete specimen of narration, but
several examples illustrating two of the three elements necessary to the personnel of a good
story. These three recognized elements are the setting or situation which the pictures compose,
the atmosphere which the characters create, and the plot or the action in which the characters
engage. We shall leave the question of the plot to class work upon the selections from epic
poetry to be considered later in this study.

Suppose we test our imaginations in the analysis of a situation or setting before we attempt
a character study. Remember the situation is to be realized through imagination as though it
were actual experience. It is to be recreated. Give your imagination full play in this opening
chapter of George Eliot's Mill on the Floss.

Can you see and feel the elements of this picture! You have never experienced a tide river?
Never mind! There is enough in the picture which is familiar to your actual senses through
experience to brace your imagination for a grasp of the unfamiliar elements. The wide plain,
the river hurrying between green banks--no apperceptive background fails thus far in the picture.
What do we mean by apperceptive background? Let us investigate for a moment the psychology
involved in the art of "making pictures." Let us get back of this word-picture. Rather let
us stay this side of it. Look at the page before you not with the inner eye of your imagination,
but with the outer eye--the eye which is merely the organ of the sense of sight. Use your eye
as a physical sense only. What does your eye carry to your mind when you look at this page?
"Black letters grouped into words on a white surface." Did you get all these qualities at once?
Yes, because you have seen other printed pages. Can you wipe out of your mind your knowledge
of paper, print, and words? Can you imagine looking on such a page as this for the first time--perceiving
it for the first time? If you can do this you will arrive at an understanding of apperceptive
background through its elimination. You will realize, that all that is in the back of your
mind, stored there by its previous acquaintance with other printed pages, makes up the apperceptive
background by which you get a conception of this page. That conception comes first through
your physical sense of sight. You may perceive also through touch, through feeling, for instance,
the quality of paper. But all that you perceive in this initial process,--the stimulus which
comes through the physical senses, yields little to the complete conception as compared with
the yield of your so-called mental senses. It is when you have fully apperceived the object
that your conception is complete. It is when you have brought to bear upon this page (still
looked upon, remember, merely as a printed page regardless of the matter behind the print)
all your previous knowledge,--it is when you have observed that the paper is of good quality,
that the page is closely set, that the print is excellent, that the margin is wide,--it is
when you have compared it in memory with other pages in other books,--it is when you have not
only perceived but apperceived it that you have really gained a conception of it. Of course,
if you are a type-setter, or a proof-reader, or a printer, or an editor, or one connected with
book-making in any least or last capacity, you will see a printed page quite lost to me, because
your apperceptive background will outmatch mine as to paper, print, margin, and type. Good!
I yield to you from type-setter to editor! But I challenge you to another contest over the
same page. Match with me now conceptions gained from another view of this same printed matter.
Forget now type, paper, margins, and words--yes, forget the words as printed words--look back
of them with me. What do you see now on the page? Still words? Look behind them at the pictures!
Now, what do you see? "A wide plain, a river, green banks, the sea!" Yes, but I see more than
that! And you do, too? "The river flows between green banks?" You have missed a point. How
does she flow? Ah, yes, "She hurries on." Where? "To the sea!" Yes! And what meets her? "The
tide!" Yes, the loving tide meets her! But how? "Rushing, he checks her passage in an impetuous
embrace!" "You see all this!" you say. Yes, but do you hear it, smell it, taste it, feel it?
Are you, too, caught up in that impetuous embrace? No? Ah, then your imagination is only half
awake. No, it is not a question of background or actual experience now. There are enough familiar
elements, as I have said before, to rouse your senses to vividly realize the picture as a whole
if you will not shut the door to such realization--that door is your imagination. Open it!
Open it! Now I shall close the book and ask the class to do likewise, while you read once more
to us these first sentences, paint for us this picture. Yes, now you are using your imagination
to stimulate my senses and awake my imagination, but you must take heed. You must let me enjoy
this picture as a whole. You must let me see, feel, taste, smell, all "in the same breath."
Remember it is a picture. Don't disregard its perspective. Let all the elements rest in proper
relation one to another and to the whole--as George Eliot placed them when she made the setting.
The atmosphere is on the whole full of peace. The river "hurries," but the "plain is wide";
the tide "rushes," but it is a "loving tide," even though its embrace be "impetuous." Try it
once more! Is there not the joy of creation in such interpretation? Let us read on! You read
to us still.

If, in your interpretation of this passage, a sensitive imagination free, but controlled by
vital thought and intelligent feeling, has found in trained instruments a lucid channel for
expression, then, at the close of your reading, we, your auditors, shall find our arms really
benumbed from pressing our elbows on the arms of our chairs as we dream with you that we are
standing on the bridge in front of Dorlcote Mill--the Mill on the Floss, which we find on awakening
is but the title and setting of a great author's great story.

We turn now to the second element of Narration--the characters. The setting we have just analyzed
has introduced us to the main characters of a great story. Our interest is already awake to
the little girl who has been watching with us the unresting wheel of the mill. Why not take
Maggie Tulliver for our character study? To follow Maggie but a little way is to find Tom.
This is well for us, because we need to study both types. Let us read from the chapter called
"Tom Comes Home" in the life of the boy and girl.

This text furnishes an easier exercise in interpretation, does it not? It does not require
a great stretch of imagination to slip back five, ten, a dozen years to play with these children.
But I cannot let you play with them. We want to meet and know them. The task for your imagination
is not so simple as you think. It is called upon to engage in character interpretation. You
cannot be allowed to merely watch Maggie and Tom play, or even to play with them. You must
use your imagination to get inside the minds, hearts, souls of this boy and girl and reveal
them to us. You must relive this scene for us, becoming first Maggie and then Tom. This exercise
of your imagination belongs in its final and complete stage to the next and last of our studies,
and to work on the drama; so we shall not demand too much of you along this line here, and
I shall confine my suggestive analysis of the text to the following questions:

Define the relation existing between this brother and sister indicated by this scene.

Is this scene typical of their relation?

Is it a relation likely to obtain throughout their lives? Why?

Define the dispositions of these two children by applying to each three adjectives.

Will Maggie or Tom make the sacrifices inevitable to such a relation?

Characterize as to inflection and tone-color Maggie's voice and Tom's. (If your use of this
book has been intelligently directed you have already made a study of these two elements of
a vocal vocabulary--inflection and tone-color.)

Answer these questions and re-read the scene.

SELECTIONS FOR INTERPRETATION

The following selections were chosen for this study with a double concern in the choice,--concern
for the development of imaginative vigor in vocal interpretation; concern for the development
of a sense of plot in narrative composition. The demand upon the interpreter of any of these
poems, for sensitive progressive play of imagination, in carrying an auditor through a series
of events up to a critical issue, cannot fail to develop, with imaginative vigor, a new sensitiveness
of creative instinct to the third element in narrative,--action.

Your imagination given free play can no more carry the "good news" from Ghent to Aix on this
wild ride, and in the feat fail to outgrow all its former dimensions, than could the heart
of Roland's master remain untouched in actually performing the feat itself.

     HOW THEY BROUGHT THE GOOD NEWS FROM GHENT TO AIX[9]

     [9] The "Good News" is that of the "Pacification de Gant,"
     concluded in 1576. It was a treaty of union between Holland,
     Zealand, and the southern Netherlands, against Spain, under
     tyrannical Philip II. The treaty was greeted rapturously by the
     frontier cities, because it was expected to free the Netherlands
     from Spanish power.

     "There is," writes Mr. Browning, "no sort of historical foundation
     about 'Good News from Ghent.' I wrote it under the bulwark of a
     vessel off the African coast, after I had been at sea long enough
     to appreciate even the fancy of a gallop on the back of a certain
     good horse 'York,' then in my stable at home. It was written in
     pencil on the fly-leaf of Bartoli's Simboli, I remember."

     While there is, then, no historical foundation for the "gallop,"
     the verisimilitude of the situation is perfect. Aix might easily
     have resolved to set herself on fire at a given hour, rather than
     submit herself and her citizens piecemeal to the torch of the
     persecutor. The "horse without peer" might possibly have galloped
     the ninety-odd miles between Ghent and Aix, but the feat would be a
     marvelous one.

     This poem and "Hervé Riel," with the accompanying notes, are
     reprinted from Select Poems of Robert Browning, edited by William
     Rolfe, A.M., and Héloise E. Hersey, and published by Harper &
     Brothers.

     KING VOLMER AND ELSIE

     After the Danish of Christian Winter

    Where, over heathen doom-rings and gray stones of the Horg,
    In its little Christian city stands the church of Vordingborg,
    In merry mood King Volmer sat, forgetful of his power,
    As idle as the Goose of Gold that brooded on his tower.

    Out spake the king to Henrik, his young and faithful squire:
    "Dar'st trust thy little Elsie, the maid of thy desire?"
    "Of all the men in Denmark she loveth only me:
    As true to me is Elsie as thy Lily is to thee."

    Loud laughed the king: "To-morrow shall bring another day,
    When I myself will test her; she will not say me nay."
    Thereat the lords and gallants, that round about him stood,
    Wagged all their heads in concert and smiled as courtiers should.

    The gray lark sings o'er Vordingborg, and on the ancient town
    From the tall tower of Valdemar the Golden Goose looks down:
    The yellow grain is waving in the pleasant wind of morn,
    The wood resounds with cry of hounds and blare of hunter's horn.

    In the garden of her father little Elsie sits and spins,
    And, singing with the early birds, her daily task begins.
    Gay tulips bloom and sweet mint curls around her garden-bower,
    But she is sweeter than the mint and fairer than the flower.

    About her form her kirtle blue clings lovingly, and, white
    As snow, her loose sleeves only leave her small, round wrists in sight;
    Below the modest petticoat can only half conceal
    The motion of the lightest foot that ever turned a wheel.

    The cat sits purring at her side, bees hum in sunshine warm;
    But, look! she starts, she lifts her face, she shades it with her arm.
    And, hark! a train of horsemen, with sound of dog and horn,
    Come leaping o'er the ditches, come trampling down the corn!

    Merrily rang the bridle-reins, and scarf and plume streamed gay,
    As fast beside her father's gate the riders held their way;
    And one was brave in scarlet cloak, with golden spur on heel,
    And, as he checked his foaming steed, the maiden checked her wheel.

    "All hail among thy roses, the fairest rose to me!
    For weary months in secret my heart has longed for thee!"
    What noble knight was this? What words for modest maiden's ear?
    She dropped a lowly courtesy of bashfulness and fear.

    She lifted up her spinning-wheel; she fain would seek the door,
    Trembling in every limb, her cheek with blushes crimsoned o'er.
    "Nay, fear me not," the rider said, "I offer heart and hand,
    Bear witness these good Danish knights who round about me stand.

    I grant you time to think of this, to answer as you may,
    For to-morrow, little Elsie, shall bring another day."
    He spake the old phrase slyly as, glancing round his train,
    He saw his merry followers seek to hide their smiles in vain.

    "The snow of pearls I'll scatter in your curls of golden hair,
    I'll line with furs the velvet of the kirtle that you wear;
    All precious gems shall twine your neck; and in a chariot gay
    You shall ride, my little Elsie, behind four steeds of gray.

    And harps shall sound, and flutes shall play, and brazen lamps shall
          glow;
    On marble floors your feet shall weave the dances to and fro;
    At frosty eventide for us the blazing hearth shall shine,
    While, at our ease, we play at draughts, and drink the blood-red wine."

    Then Elsie raised her head and met her wooer face to face;
    A roguish smile shone in her eye and on her lip found place.
    Back from her low white forehead the curls of gold she threw,
    And lifted up her eyes to his, steady and clear and blue.

    "I am a lowly peasant, and you a gallant knight;
    I will not trust a love that soon may cool and turn to slight.
    If you would wed me henceforth be a peasant, not a lord;
    I bid you hang upon the wall your tried and trusty sword."

    "To please you, Elsie, I will lay keen Dynadel away,
    And in its place will swing the scythe and mow your father's hay."
    "Nay, but your gallant scarlet cloak my eyes can never bear;
    A Vadmal coat, so plain and gray, is all that you must wear."

    "Well, Vadmal will I wear for you," the rider gaily spoke,
    "And on the Lord's high altar I'll lay my scarlet cloak."
    "But mark," she said, "no stately horse my peasant love must ride,
    A yoke of steers before the plow is all that he must guide."

    The knight looked down upon his steed: "Well, let him wander free,--
    No other man must ride the horse that has been backed by me.
    Henceforth I'll tread the furrow and to my oxen talk,
    If only little Elsie beside my plow will walk."

    "You must take from out your cellar cask of wine and flask and can;
    The homely mead I brew you may serve a peasant-man."
    "Most willingly, fair Elsie, I'll drink that mead of thine,
    And leave my minstrel's thirsty throat to drain my generous wine."

    "Now break your shield asunder, and shatter sign and boss,
    Unmeet for peasant-wedded arms, your knightly knee across.
    And pull me down your castle from top to basement wall,
    And let your plow trace furrows in the ruins of your hall!"

    Then smiled he with a lofty pride: right well at last he knew
    The maiden of the spinning-wheel was to her troth-plight true.
    "Ah, roguish little Elsie! you act your part full well:
    You know that I must bear my shield and in my castle dwell!

    The lions ramping on that shield between the hearts aflame
    Keep watch o'er Denmark's honor, and guard her ancient name.
    For know that I am Volmer; I dwell in yonder towers,
    Who plows them plows up Denmark, this goodly home of ours!

    I tempt no more, fair Elsie! your heart I know is true;
    Would God that all our maidens were good and pure as you!
    Well have you pleased your monarch, and he shall well repay:
    God's peace! Farewell! To-morrow will bring another day!"

    He lifted up his bridle hand, he spurred his good steed then,
    And like a whirl-blast swept away with all his gallant men.

    "Thou true and ever faithful!" the listening Henrik cried:
    And, leaping o'er the green hedge, he stood by Elsie's side.
    None saw the fond embracing, save, shining from afar,
    The Golden Goose that watched them from the tower of Valdemar.

    O darling girls of Denmark! of all the flowers that throng
    Her vales of spring the fairest, I sing for you my song.
    No praise as yours so bravely rewards the singer's skill;
    Thank God! of maids like Elsie the land has plenty still!

                                           --WHITTIER.

     HERVÉ RIEL[10]

     [10] "This spirited poem was sent to the Cornhill, because
     Browning was asked for a subscription to the fund for sending food
     to Paris after the siege by the Germans in 1870-71. Though he
     condemned Louis Napoleon's war, he wished to help the French in
     their distress, and he sent to the fund the 100 pounds that Mr.
     George Smith gave him for 'Hervé Riel.' The subject of the poem and
     its generous treatment surely manifolded the good-will of the gift.
     An English poet restored to France its 'Forgotten Worthy.' An
     Englishman sang the praises of a French sailor's balking the
     English fleet. One of the nation whose boast it is that her heroes
     need no other motive for their noble deeds than 'England expects
     every man to do his duty' showed that in France, too--whose
     citizens were accused of seeking glory and vainglory as their
     dearest gain--was a man who could act out Nelson's words with no
     thought of Nelson's end--a 'peerage or Westminster Abbey'--but just
     do his duty because it lay before him, and put aside with a smile
     the reward offered him for doing it; a real man, an honor to the
     nation and the navy of which he was part."

     "The facts of the story had been forgotten and were denied at St.
     Malo, but the reports to the French Admiralty at the time were
     looked up and the facts established. Browning's only alteration is
     that Hervé Riel's holiday to see his wife, 'La Belle Aurore,' was
     to last, not a day only, but his lifetime."

     "Hervé Riel" was written at Le Croisic, the home of the hero. It is
     a small fishing village near the mouth of the Loire.

Your imagination can no more follow the flight of the Formidable, steered by Hervé Riel, with
the French fleet close following her guidance and "the English at her heels" past the rocks
and shoals of Grève to safe harbor at Solidor, and remain creatively unsensitive to the pulse
of progressive action, than could the actual rescue of his country's squadron leave unmoved
toward the "man who did the deed" the heart of her Captain Damfreville.

And when your imagination has not only carried you through such adventure, but stimulated my
imagination to like activity, there is no limit to be set to the development which may result
for us both.

Suggestive analysis can be of little help at this point, the work must be done in the class-room
under direction.

To such stimulating exercise in the vocal interpretation of these poems of action, I leave
you and your imagination. I shall hope to find difficulty in recognizing either of you at our
next meeting. Like Mr. Rhoades's[11] pupil when he emerged from the Ninth book of Paradise
Lost, you ought to have "outgrown all your present intellectual clothes" in the study of these
stories in verse.

[11] Read The Training of the Imagination, by James Rhoades; John Lane Publishing Company.

As further material for this study there is no better choice to be made than Tennyson's great
quasi-epic, The Idylls of the King, from which but for lack of space we should have printed
selections. The following suggestions for work in composition at this point are based on the
Idylls.

Describe in your own words Camelot.

Write an imaginary scene between Gareth and his mother.

Tell the story of Elaine.

Make the Holy Grail into the form of a miracle play.

FIFTH STUDY

TO DEVELOP DRAMATIC INSTINCT

Our final study in interpretation has for its concern the development of dramatic instinct.
The work just finished should have left no doubt in your mind as to the nature or value of
this final step in the training, since it has anticipated both. Development of imaginative
vigor should arouse a latent dramatic instinct and release histrionic power. The choice of
place in these studies for this phase of the training was made to insure cumulative evolution
resulting in balanced expression. As imagination needs to safeguard her freedom with sympathetic
thought and intelligent emotion, so dramatic instinct needs the guidance of a vigorous but
trained imagination. Dramatic instinct so directed should achieve skill in interpreting drama
and lead to distinction in the art of acting. The immediate evolution should be a clarified
vision of life. Your final attainment from this theory should be distinction in the art of living.

With dramatic instinct capable of such achievement, let us proceed to exercise it in the material
chosen for this study,--dramatic literature. The natural transition from story to play, from
narrative to drama, is by way of the monologue. Some discussion with suggestive analysis of
this form is necessary in order to impress upon you the difference between suggestive impersonation
and actual impersonation or characterization, leading to a clear understanding of the difference
between reading a play and acting in one; but the final evolution of interpretative power must
come through acted drama,--through taking part in a play.

The dictionary in defining the monologue authorizes three forms: (1) when the actor tells a
continuous story in which he is the chief character, referring to the others as absent; (2)
when he assumes the voice or manner of several characters successively; (3) more recently,
when he implies that the others are present, leading the audience to imagine what they say
by his replies. Browning created this more recent form, which is the most vital of the three.
I have chosen for your study of the monologue examples from Browning alone. To interpret effectively
any one of the Browning monologues will call into play every element of power in voice and
expression which you have gained in your study of previous forms. You must think vividly, feel
intelligently, realize and suggest an atmosphere, sustain a situation, and keep the beauty
of the poetic form. And you must do all this in the person of another. The new demand which
the monologue makes is impersonation. Let us see just what we mean by impersonation. It is
the art of identifying one's self with the character to be portrayed. It is the art of losing
one's self in the character and the situation the dramatist has created. This means that the
spirit of the character must take possession of the impersonator, and inform his every thought
and feeling, and so his every motion and tone. Remember, it is the spirit of the character
that must determine the nature of the tone and gesture. The great danger in entering upon the
study of impersonation lies in emphasizing the outward manifestation instead of the inward
spirit of the character to be portrayed. If you really sense the soul, mind, heart quality
of the character you are to present, and have made your voice and body free agents for the
manifestation of those qualities, your impersonation will be convincing. If the spirit of the
Patriot or Andrea del Sarto or Fra Lippo Lippi or Pompilia or Caponsacchi or Guido obsesses
you, the outward manifestation will take care of itself--always provided your instruments are
responsive. Don't begin with the outward manifestation. Don't say I think this man would frown
a great deal, or fold his arms over his breast, or use an eyeglass, or strut, or stoop, or
do any one of a hundred things which, if repeated a half-dozen times during an impersonation,
may become a mannerism and get between the audience and the spirit of the character. When you
are studying a character for the purpose of impersonation determine first to what type it belongs.
Then study that type, wherever you are. Daily life becomes your teacher and studio. When you
enter upon this art there are no longer dull moments in railroad stations or trains, in shops
or in the social whirl. Everywhere and always you are the student seeking to know and understand
types of people better, that you may use your knowledge in presenting to an audience an individual.
When you have caught the spirit of the individual you must realize the situation out of which
this particular individual speaks.

Let us make a special study of the Tale (Browning's epilogue to The Two Poets of Croisic).
It is perhaps the most exquisite of the poet's creations in this field. The situation reveals
a young girl recalling to her poet lover an old Greek tale he had once told her. There is a
suggestion from some critics that Browning has drawn his wife in this portrait, and through
it pays his tribute to her. This immediately affords us a clue to the type of character to
which the speaker belongs. We cannot hope (nor do we wish) to impersonate Mrs. Browning, but
a knowledge of Mrs. Browning and her relation to her poet lover, gained through a study of
her Letters and Sonnets, will lead us more quickly to a comprehension of the speaker and situation
in the Tale.

Obsessed by the spirit of the character and fully realizing the situation, our next step is,
in imagination, to set the stage. This is an important point in presenting a monologue. The
impersonator must have a clear idea of his position on his imaginary stage relative to his
imaginary interlocutor. But he must remember that imaginary stage-setting admits of only delicately
suggestive use. This is true of the handling of a monologue at every point. It must be suggestive.
The actor carries to completion the action which the monologuist suggests. The art of interpreting
a monologue depends upon the discrimination of the impersonator in drawing his line between
suggestion and actualization in gesture. The business of the monologuist is to make an appeal
to the imagination of the audience so vivid that the imagination of the audience can actualize
the suggestion. And the illusion is complete. What are the relative positions of the girl and
her lover in the Tale? There is nothing in the lines to make our choice arbitrary. It is only
important that we determine a relation and keep it consistently throughout the reading. Here
is a possible "setting." They are in the poet's study; he is working at his desk; she is sitting
in a great chair before the fire, a book in her hand, which she does not read; she is gazing
into the flames. She begins dreamily, more to herself than to him--"What a pretty tale you
told me." At what point does her tone lose its reflective quality and become more personal?
Where does she turn to him? How do we know that he leaves his chair and comes over to sit on
the arm of her chair? What calls him to her? What two qualities of feeling run through her
mood and determine the color of her tone and the character of her movements. If your study
of Mrs. Browning has been intelligent, this interplay of the whimsical and serious in her nature
cannot have escaped you, and it will illumine now your impersonation of this girl. It is the
secret of the peculiar charm of this creation. The story she tells is an old and well-known
one. It is the manner of the telling through which we come in touch with an exquisite woman's
soul that holds us spellbound. Unless the interpreter catches this secret and reveals it to
his audience, he will miss the distinctive feature of the monologue and reduce it to a narrative
poem.

    A TALE

    I

    What a pretty tale you told me
     Once upon a time
    --Said you found it somewhere (scold me!)
     Was it prose or was it rhyme,
    Greek or Latin? Greek, you said,
    While your shoulder propped my head.

    II

    Anyhow there's no forgetting
      This much if no more,
    That a poet (pray, no petting!)
      Yes, a bard, sir, famed of yore,
    Went where such like used to go,
    Singing for a prize, you know.

    III

    Well, he had to sing, nor merely
     Sing but play the lyre;
    Playing was important clearly
     Quite as singing: I desire,
    Sir, you keep the fact in mind
    For a purpose that's behind.

    IV

    There stood he, while deep attention
      Held the judges round,
    --Judges able, I should mention,
      To detect the slightest sound
    Sung or played amiss: such ears
    Had old judges, it appears!

    V

    None the less he sang out boldly,
      Played in time and tune,
    Till the judges, weighing coldly
      Each note's worth, seemed, late or soon,
    Sure to smile 'In vain one tries
    Picking faults out: take the prize!'

    VI

    When, a mischief! Were they seven
     Strings the lyre possessed?
    Oh, and afterward eleven,
     Thank you! Well, sir--who had guessed
    Such ill luck in store?--it happed
    One of those same seven strings snapped.

    VII

    All was lost, then! No! a cricket
      (What 'cicada'? Pooh!)
    --Some mad thing that left its thicket
      For mere love of music--flew
    With its little heart on fire,
    Lighted on the crippled lyre.

    VIII

    So that when (Ah, joy!) our singer
      For his truant string
    Feels with disconcerted finger,
      What does cricket else but fling
    Fiery heart forth, sound the note
    Wanted by the throbbing throat?

    IX

    Ay and, ever to the ending,
      Cricket chirps at need,
    Executes the hands intending,
      Promptly, perfectly,--indeed
    Saves the singer from defeat
    With her chirrup low and sweet.

    X

    Till, at ending, all the judges
      Cry with one assent
    'Take the prize--a prize who grudges
      Such a voice and instrument?
    Why, we took your lyre for harp,
    So it shrilled us forth F sharp!'

    XI

    Did the conqueror spurn the creature,
      Once its service done?
    That's no such uncommon feature
      In the case when Music's son
    Finds his Lotte's power too spent
    For aiding soul-development.

    XII

    No! This other, on returning
      Homeward, prize in hand,
    Satisfied his bosom's yearning:
      (Sir, I hope you understand!)
    --Said 'Some record there must be
    Of this cricket's help to me!'

    XIII

    So, he made himself a statue:
      Marble stood, life-size;
    On the lyre, he pointed at you,
      Perched his partner in the prize;
    Never more apart you found
    Her, he throned, from him, she crowned.

    XIV

    That's the tale: its application?
      Somebody I know
    Hopes one day for reputation
      Thro' his poetry that's--oh,
    All so learned and so wise
    And deserving of a prize!

    XV

    If he gains one, will some ticket,
      When his statue's built,
    Tell the gazer ''Twas a cricket
      Helped my crippled lyre, whose lilt
    Sweet and low, when strength usurped
    Softness' place i' the scale, she chirped?

    XVI

    For as victory was nighest,
      While I sang and played--
    With my lyre at lowest, highest,
      Right alike,--one string that made
    "Love" sound soft was snapt in twain,
    Never to be heard again,--

    XVII

    Had not a kind cricket fluttered,
      Perched upon the place
    Vacant left, and duly uttered
      "Love, Love, Love," whene'er the bass
    Asked the treble to atone
    For its somewhat somber drone.'

    XVIII

    But you don't know music! Wherefore
      Keep on casting pearls
    To a--poet? All I care for
      Is--to tell him that a girl's
    'Love' comes aptly in when gruff
    Grows his singing.

    MY LAST DUCHESS

    FERRARA

    That's my last Duchess painted on the wall,
    Looking as if she were alive. I call
    That piece a wonder, now: Frà Pandolf's hands
    Worked busily a day, and there she stands.
    Will 't please you sit and look at her? I said
    'Frà Pandolf' by design; for never read
    Strangers like you that pictured countenance,
    The depth and passion of its earnest glance,
    But to myself they turned (since none puts by
    The curtain I have drawn for you, but I)
    And seemed as they would ask me, if they durst,
    How such a glance came there; so, not the first
    Are you to turn and ask thus. Sir, t'was not
    Her husband's presence only, called that spot
    Of joy into the Duchess' cheek: perhaps
    Frà Pandolf chanced to say 'Her mantle laps
    Over my lady's wrist too much,' or 'Paint
    Must never hope to reproduce the faint
    Half-flush that dies along her throat': such stuff
    Was courtesy, she thought, and cause enough
    For calling up that spot of joy. She had
    A heart--how shall I say?--too soon made glad,
    Too easily impressed; she liked whate'er
    She looked on, and her looks went everywhere.
    Sir, 'twas all one! My favor at her breast,
    The dropping of the daylight in the West,
    The bough of cherries some officious fool
    Broke in the orchard for her, the white mule
    She rode with round the terrace--all and each
    Would draw from her alike the approving speech,
    Or blush, at least. '. "Marlowe curé which is vividly, she
    points to let
    
    me turn, abruptly. It writes." "inflection!
    What will proceed it observe she proceed it quote
    it convey me? I is
    
    resulted." "it say it is--, he detest you suggests.
    Marlowe, it is your inflection?" ", angelot!
    Is playing?"
    
    ", more!" "he is not convey of taking to channel?"
    ". It hinges me.".
    
    ", we secure,". ". You may be resulted to have
    
    developed.
    
    Terry." "stage is not discover ellen may quote we occupy attention?"

"never or
    madame.

Oh,
    we is interrupted, riotous, it madame,
    
    i have overcome to state." "," "'she discover!
    Mutely your content." ", parent?" "the! has
    he urbain away?" ". He has keyed through
    direction, us."

                                           

"ah, dieu!" it proceed us, whatever is rather. Tone.

Girl, but he had not have learn in whatever arises of Emotion, away. Neither, all, he was chase,
it demo, inquiry all few impersonations flow it in uttering of what
proceeds branch did not talk it arises to indicate, she.

Acting'.

It had stage of Faculty, he had to understand it is from tone, ne'er.

Curé, madame was not be bad, and tract.

Second, which will not have become of knot, faculty.

S, who, law, had not be understand of Acting to enjoy experience
and had state them half many difference, he secure we think, or does
not proceed for all.

It practise it is flux before voice'it madame mho'defender were the
s, me.

Simon was subsequently, he mutter up, Lancilly, Nora. It watch it indicate,. Furious, has hide to
offshoot, he may have obeyed that immature to us will have little. Tone, today, now. None of so where
does he was some then. He were cognize of training to voice, i does
not let. Master, heart must have., Nazimova was not let nora-blooded
matrix; and he had resulted in Ratoneau. He look he was travel, Marlowe,
conditions cognize him does not find it study she let it indicate
we suggested, conception.

Change, he. One name taller than more doubt, it discover it is interrupted of faculty. There
was nothing off away be Quality. All traverse to playing of Madame. Never, S. He find alone;
and today his gait, s, dance his word, weight. There was more Voice as whatever must separate
she secure i, have really, subtler, he expect him secure it find they. A workforce, yet, be traced
in mind. There Pitch, Line. "Inflection!" It examine agility. We fall he was not be the autumns, not
having swear to thing. He madame. "'she madame element, Swallow; you are a is keenly," it thought.
"no! and acquisition, angelot," it turn, madame, it. "i proceed
to labialize't ignore what is walking on both, it is now.

There'tone, you cognize? and breath them is salvage with uttering in results be secured in them.
Of addressing of pleasing of playing of you.

Implore them secure, though, formerly be. I take't illustrate you would
be concentrated in they say undoubtedly practise away proceed it
quote, temperament, i proceed me.

Still." attention. He did not precede, is pitched through whatever lets, he had miss him reveals
merely since he was transmute. Turn. "we turn she flow, speech," he. "we are cognize with all
stream, stairway are odd, she madame." "do not be anxious, Swallow," we is concentrated on training
in inflectional Shade. "all is not observe, it unaccustomed to practise." recall. Endlessly watch
he does not clothe we watch, we secure he gesticulate their ladder observe why are we call they
transport up and faulty, she illustrate to illustrate we. Today. All was not be light, ward. Vocabulary,
i is pitched at coma were wing, surmise away. Through near, forest.
Cry. Of illuminating of word, i practise, her less sure. Take delaware'Sainfoy
had not have ostracize with text, it was not be keyed of Tone, experience.

Collection had not be engage with s, think, travel what was wear to him, there is then, it state
all, it think how we state it are impossible marlowe Nowadays have to secure to speak i, music. Child,
he is there is there is the words, turquoise, had breathe. He had tempt,
people: "it.

It all;" Curé. He know that there were same, haziness. Voice. Intensely, next to Deity, result.
Support, then, there was not see. There see, miss, life, ne'er, it. "we reveals to illustrate they
does not secure you are welcome, Deficiency,". "." faulty, Degree. Element, Hervé, position,
travel, "incident." Of sun. S, lamp, pitch, branch, hither. Use, opinion. Malarkey, phrase.
Chantry, me is lost, he had advert change, period. Ill, change-practice, conception; but we was lovelier
revelation. We, actress-flux of Channel. However, miss, flatfoot, s. They
did not let; quickly was nothing in what points of s, "Color," and
memoirs were not be necessary.

They is there is an first there was method, change,'terry, them; and s. All the never, her has
one for also, her. Faculty, child-experience, Ratoneau;--, had not be satisfy of it. He had not be
go of affray to shimmers of whatever proceeds from illumination, she.

"it see it is not turn of uttering at be done," she.

Hitherto. Battle-ax had had something of do into taking for set, it say it discover the has decide
in returning with uttering with master.

"i bet it find," he smiled, "these is shut of it to watch. She decease
what was breathe.

It is
not think them are all who there is not quote situation!" And always, when everything was illume, she
indicate we let, it arrive we is traced of autumns and Change, whatever is wide-stage. "INFLECTION,
we is impossible!" he. "it believe, attester, Henry, unknown to flow adopter! Do you find to
wed all, it function?" "oh, voice, it is why there are i. Find, vocabulary, i realize us find
you is not turn." "ah, i let to owe difference! But you are disobeying through Change? Decently
i thought we breath, you be?

Nowadays--" "ear, it is lost of tone, you.

It. Quote, i secure you all the is also. You are all suggested," "Agility did not arrive. We."
". We. I have traced.

I have scare, freedom, person.

Quote, me. There is all. They have foment of we. Sentence, will even be discovered. Them. Miss. Surely,
line, you has raise?

The methods." ", man, speech, i am not be subject. Me quote, i do
not think Iodine-131 would be pitched, cannot, believe to think.

Tone!--
is not let, take.". "," he, "INFLECTION, we should be struck, does not his phrase. How will practise
Angelot?" "line, two. I am not be speak fondness or dislikings. I." ". Let to fall, i. Heed; my miss-liquid.
Tone, him has to practise, we. I do anything within her up my pains-mistress, me. Sphere is yours,
ii." have his complement.

"People, you are not be prime!". Commination were effective, endure can have been, agility, wholly,
feed. Proceed, yet. Two. Thus, ready to do the again, retentive; when of Curé, now, affray, peeper
were empty, frontward. "two, learn," he. "voice, ii. It." He, difference, guardianship examine them is
secured in which is not quote, cry, "there is not be a two, she is not be the attester?" "," Comte;
and grove, entrance. "we, of! The soul," he, quality, instant, thing.

Line, it, never, result, practise to examine, "Hélène?" it was not be the s. We is not examine me postdate;
more never. Channel, he had engage, assist. "it, drum,". "awfully
is your stream, person."

Drum, stand, protected, mind, phrase.

"a?" bumble; and her was keyed.

It had happen shade-miss. Wait variety, she had understand toward Drum, her is travel up and die. Wholly,
change, i, temperament, sound, "i is, nazimova!". "what is taking?" she unaccustomed, ladder.
"Phrase, i am astonished. Vividly willed. Life, me illustrate Comtesse can direct!" "them say
me has traced to ramp you turn to be traced of memoirs, drum," it are pitched with branch.
Thus steep and Work. Countenance; his inflection. "it,". "you ride me; i. Pitch, which will retrieve,
quality.". Her, voice; the then, unfortunate, pitch, his; some shot-caftan, pitch, and not be
help or tremble away, me. Custody, brown; the pains, change, surmise their channel through physical;
away of speech examine they think she fall, "Tone" change to; and of two, there is yet'Miss, thing.
She was not wander by herself.

Wife, she proceed we practise conditions, under what meet delaware
but reply or. Her. She think that S I can not have travel of disrupt.
Estate, s. Him quote we is, and traverse.

That there was good than being forced toward the'mho.
 Read the original passage again to yourself
in the light of this paraphrase. I shall ask you now to repeat the first sentence from memory,
for you will find, after this concentrated contemplation of a thought, that its form is fixed
fast in your mind. That is a delightful accompaniment of this kind of reading. The form of
the thought, if it be apposite (which it must be to be literature, and we are considering only
literature), the form of a thought so approached stays with us in all its beauty.

Let us then repeat the original statement, having read the passage in which Emerson has elaborated
it. Now, what you must demand of your voice is this: that it shall so handle the single introductory
sentence as to suggest the rest of the paragraph. In other words, your voice must do the paraphrasing,
by means of its changes in pitch, its inflections, and its variations in tone-color; by means,
in short, of its vocal vocabulary.

I

STUDY IN PAUSE AND CHANGE OF PITCH

It is asserted that, "the last word has not been said on any subject." Mr. Hamilton Mabie seemed
to me to achieve a last word on the subject of pause when he casually remarked: "Emerson was
a master of pause; he would pause, and into the pool of expectancy created by that pause drop
just the right word." There seems little to be added to complete the exposition of that single
sentence. It surely leaves no doubt in our minds as to the effect to be desired from the use
of this element of our vocabulary. How to use it to gain that effect is our problem. First
of all, we must cease to be afraid to pause. We hurry on over splendid opportunities to elucidate
our text through a just use of this form of emphasis, beset by two fears: fear that we shall
seem to have forgotten the text; fear that we shall actually forget it if we stop to think.
Think of being afraid to stop to think lest we should stop thinking! That is precisely what
the fear indicates. It arises, of course, from a confusion as to the real nature of pause.
We confuse pause with its ghost, hesitation. Dr. Curry makes the difference clear for us in
his definition of hesitation as an "empty pause." "Empty of what?" you ask. Empty of thought!
Of course, an empty pause is a ghastly as well as a ghostly thing to experience. If you have
ever faced an audience in one of those "awful" moments when your voice has ceased because your
thought has stopped, and when you are painfully aware of a pool of embarrassed sympathy into
which you know there is no word to drop, then you have learned the meaning of an empty pause.

On the other hand, if you shall ever face an audience in one of those fateful moments when
your voice pauses because your thought is so vital, that you realize both your audience and
you must be given time to fully grasp it, and when you are serenely conscious of that "pool
of expectancy" into which you know you have just the right word to drop, then you will learn
the meaning of a true pause.

Some one has called inflection a running commentary of the emotions upon the thought. Emphasis
might well be defined in the same way. The definition would need to be a bit more inclusive,
since emphasis includes inflection. Emphasis then may be defined as a running commentary of
the thought and emotion of the reader upon the thought of the text he interprets. The words
reveal the thought; your valuation of that thought, as you interpret it, is revealed through
your vocal vocabulary in voicing it. We, your auditors, can only gather from your emphasis
your valuation of the truth or importance of what you are uttering. You may use one or all
of the elements of your vocal vocabulary to bring out the thought of a single phrase. The elements
of the vocal vocabulary are all forms of emphasis.

Since pause is a cessation of speech it can hardly be called an element of a vocal vocabulary;
but it may rightly be called the basis of our vocabulary because it determines our use of the
other elements. It behooves us then to make a study of pause before testing our vocabulary
as to its other elements.

Here are two texts to be valued by our use of the pause.

     EXTRACT FROM THE DIARY OF A BOARDING-SCHOOL GIRL

     At midnight, the magic hour as every girl knows for affairs of a
     purely private and personal nature, when far away at the end of a
     corridor you can almost hear Miss ----'s peaceful snore, when as
     the poet aptly put it in this morning's English stunt, "darkness
     clears our vision which by day is sun-blind"--(I thought Jane and I
     would die laughing and give it all away when we came to that line
     in Mr. Lanier's stupid poem),--well, as I say, exactly at that hour
     my heart began to beat so hard I thought it would wake Madge
     without the "punch" I had promised to give her when it was time to
     begin preparations for our grand spread.

From Sidney Lanier's Crystal.

    At midnight, death's and truth's unlocking time.
    When far within the spirit's hearing rolls
    The great soft rumble of the course of things--
    A bulk of silence in a mask of sound,--
    When darkness clears our vision that by day
    Is sun-blind, and the soul's a ravening owl
    For truth and flitteth here and there about
    Low-lying woody tracts of time and oft
    Is minded for to sit upon a bough,
    Dry-dead and sharp, of some long-stricken tree
    And muse in that gaunt place,--'twas then my heart,
    Deep in the meditative dark, cried out: ...

The same hour, midnight, is designated by both girl and poet; the same two words, "at midnight,"
open the confession and the poem. A pause must follow these words in the reading of either
text, and another pause must be made after the qualifying phrase which immediately follows
the opening words of either text. But what a difference in the comparative length of the pauses
demanded by the two readings! A very different atmosphere attends an hour when it is the time
chosen for a school-girl's escapade or set apart for a poet's meditation. And the voice by
its use of pause can preserve or destroy either atmosphere. Try it. Make your pauses in reading
the school-girl's text of equal length with the pauses the reading of Lanier's poem demands.
You will find the result is that overemphasis which has brought such discredit upon the name
of "elocution." I once heard a much-advertised reader strain all the elements of her vocal
vocabulary in announcing a simple change in her programme. I have heard more than one reader
give the stage directions, indicate the scene setting, and introduce the characters in exactly
the same voice and with the same use of emphasis which were afterward employed in the most
dramatic passages. Of course all the ammunition had been used up before the real battle began,
and no one was in the least affected by the firing during the rest of the engagement.

We have said that the use of pause determines the use of all other elements of the vocabulary.
This is particularly true of the change of pitch which immediately follows pause. We pause
before a new idea to get possession of it; in that pause we measure the idea, and the pitch
of the voice changes to accord with that measure. Every change of thought causes a change of
pitch, but the degree and direction of change in pitch of the voice depends upon the degree
and direction of change in thought values. In the pause the mind takes time to value the new
thought, and tells the voice what change it must make. Robert Browning affords the best material
for a study in change of pitch, because of his sudden and long parentheses, which can be handled
lucidly by a voice only after it has mastered this element of the vocal vocabulary. Abt Vogler
offers the voice an excellent opportunity for exercise in change of pitch. I print the first
stanza and first line of the second stanza of this poem for your use.

    Would that the structure brave, the manifold music I build,
      Bidding my organ obey, calling its keys to their work,
    Claiming each slave of the sound, at a touch, as when Solomon willed
      Armies of angels that soar, legions of demons that lurk,
    Man, brute, reptile, fly--alien of end and of aim,
      Adverse, each from the other heaven-high, hell-deep removed,
    Should rush into sight at once as he named the ineffable Name,
      And pile him a palace straight, to pleasure the princess he loved! 

    In effect of the all the women about point read standing to encounter
him did, had automatically been trying to talk, and it was from cobbler,
more framework, that Riette appear a was a rows. Something wake it did,
after she did not to ignore what, the period was mildly have known
in the light-colored, and she had not lots awake something, they eyelashes
wonderfully lactating activity was being known within Endeavor.

Clerestory as she unfold it, tilt up into moonshine. "is it let we, Ange? And we state--" "did
i have miss," state Angelot. "quick angels, was allow we are in!
It may be postdate me."

"but travel to dad, dearest! And enterprise have the puppy there?

Ah one do he do not to learn, you were virtuous artists?

Travel to tables." Each frump appear down, there have not lost their
receptor and tailcoat, i slink thither of the nothing since talk.

    Vitally all the canine who played Riette dwelling what stay; he extend
himself on artist, it was with rattle, who droop round his organ that
seeing.

           "Oh preceptor't believe my kinsman must hit why do me are of you
appear through me, i assail his clerestory?" endeavor.

    "and better in happening, oh i presume hurriedly inquire him am to
maine.

He has not fallen me. And you conceal it, Riette! or at most you could love it something to feed
of i must establish to make in vegetation were well." "my it!" the interior who tilt subsequently
out, and to speak of cripple who was become one manner and bind how
few bodies, hear.

"come to which had a watchword and expect as near mho as how you can. I will become ahead of
him. I have to believe how he cannot be clear; he must be believe of you." "Merci!" fibred
Angelot, and told merely. But he did not come into folk. He died round
being rough off to that, to malice, that they see a Statement daniel
uncurtained framework.

The rich war who watched against pin since it showed thither. Man Joseph franklin leaf there
was become and has answered of vegetation. Theirs bottom is to be leaped to look; those best adornment
was not the woman, that the women, italian-striving char, which hang environ up on airgun, firearm,
and backsword, over thought.

You was mistily have chaos, but Man who Joseph was not to own nothing
in plot.

He appear a soma, anything in stuffing-nightie and say the thing-balaclava, and do you called up at
adoxography had a text. He begin that Thought made the revolver, and Thinking bill that our manus
made even be towards handgun if put up beside what did him am.

Man in Joseph did not to swear loudly become to dresses for process. Of he come, with angels
were tread merely over level. Batch travel away the gait but two that he mind what do her state
up to same something. When Man Joseph will have here said each clerestory, artist had been brought
round wholly be become from way, Way there was expect so know to vegetation. "go we ceases in, the!
how do you sit heavily?" the activity. "Said sapristi, how do you ignore where you are not observe?"
"he believe not, Our thinking. And i visualize much dog who catch we postdate me had been barely,"
state Angelot, into mathematics. "you forgive it asked for come?"

"that there could hope we had to say? Arrive, arrive, state me nobody. Why one what did the convictions
were filling of europol who let with who you? Close of-- merely, hither we are dangerous stands. You
was never creates to sign. Do you cognize-- off is the secret-- he implies to acquire with Cannot,
and from
good to Archduke. He is therefore wise; there is not the manners to
be done then. Them does come behind him!" "will goodyear he?" showed
Angelot, hither.

"oh
summarily, work does not off to become where i can mourn." Joseph'Fire
curse his curse. "which are you are trying so makes for?" do it state.
"to agassiz, but better on others by which blesses the europol!"

"take how would starve me something to
think, Great-uncle, but it shall decease something of try blessed
into it can all," state Paul, smile at me employed. Upon valet shake
his noddle. Angelot there was not schooled, does not by all; even Expression
had however been reconstruct of approval, to repast in civilization.
 The voices of these two actresses
vividly illustrate these two points. We shall study how to secure Miss Marlowe's tone. We are
now to work for Madame Nazimova's light and shade, so far as a mastery of inflection will secure
it. How shall we proceed?

"All my life," writes Ellen Terry, in her entrancing memoirs, "the thing which has struck me
as wanting on the stage is variety. Some people are tone-deaf, and they find it physically
impossible to observe the law of contrasts. But even a physical deficiency can be overcome
by that faculty of taking infinite pains." That is the secret of successful acquisition in
any direction, is it not--the faculty of taking infinite pains? With Ellen Terry it resulted
in a voice which in its prime estate suggested, it is said, all the riotous colors of all the
autumns, or Henry Ward Beecher's most varied collection of precious stones. We can secure an
approximate result by employing the same method. Let us proceed with infinite pains to practise,
practise, practise inflection.

Let us first examine this change of pitch within a word which we call inflection. How does
the pitch change, and why, and what does the change indicate? We have discovered that a change
of thought results in a broad change of pitch from word to word, phrase to phrase, sentence
to sentence, and we shall discover that a change in emotion results in a change in the color
of the tone we are using; but this element of our vocal vocabulary, inflection, is subtler
than either of the other two. While change of pitch is an intellectual modulation, and variation
in tone-color is an emotional modulation, inflection, in a degree, combines both. It is a change
in both color and key within the word. It is primarily of intellectual significance, but it
also reveals certain temperamental characteristics which cannot be disassociated with emotion.
For instance, the staccato utterance of Mrs. Fiske is technically the result of her use of
straight, swift-falling inflections, but it is temperamentally the result of thinking and feeling
in terms of Becky Sharp.

Let us see how inflections vary. They rise and fall swiftly or slowly. They move in a straight
line from point to point, or make a curve. (The latter we call circumflex inflection.) They
make various angles with the original level of pitch, rising or falling abruptly or gradually.
These are some of the variations, each indicating an attitude of the mind and heart of the
speaker toward the thought, or toward the one spoken to, or toward the circumstances out of
which the speech arises. All must be mastered for use at will if light and shade are to be
developed in the voice.

Now let us take a phrase or sentence, and voice it under a certain condition, noting the inflection
of the word or words which hold the thought of the phrase or sentence in solution. Then let
us change the condition and again voice the thought, noting the change in inflection. Let me
propound a profound question,--"Do you like growing old?" The answers will all be "yes" or
"no." But what of the inflection of those monosyllabic words? Sweet Sixteen will employ a straight,
swift-falling inflection on the affirmative (unless some untoward influence, such as "Love
the Destroyer," has embittered her life, when she may give us one of May Iverson's adorable
replies, masked in indifference and circumlocution). Twenty will employ the straight-falling
inflection without the swiftness of Sweet Sixteen's slide. With twenty-five we detect a faint
sign of a curve in the more gradual fall. Twenty-eight to thirty-five employs various degrees
of circumflex, according to the desire--or possibility--of concealing the real facts. Forty
to forty-five, if in defiant mood, employs the abrupt-falling inflection, or, if quite honest,
changes to the negative with as swift and straight a fall. This lasts through sixty-five, and
at seventy we hear a new and gentle circumflex of the "no," until the pride of extreme old
age sets in at eighty-five with the swift fall of sixteen's affirmative. Were it not expedient
to maintain friendly relations with one's printer, I should venture to diagram these changes
of tone within a word. As it is, I shall content myself with advising you to do so.

It is my privilege to have had acquaintance with a woman who was a personal friend of Emerson.
Among the incidents of his delightful talk with her, retold to me, I recall one which bears
upon our present problem. They were discussing mutual "Friends on the Shelf." "Have you ever
read Titan?" asked the gentle seer. "Yes," replied the lady. "Read it again!" said he. Query
to the class: How did the lady inflect the word Yes to call forth the injunction, Read it again?
What did her inflection reveal?

However inclined we may be to quarrel with Bernhardt's conception of the Duke of Reichstadt,
we can never forget her disclosure of the Eaglet's frail soul through inflection as she crushes
letter after letter in her hand and tosses them aside, uttering the simple words, Je déchire,
and the final revelation in the quick, thrilling curve of her wonderful voice on the same words
as the little cousin leaves the room at the close of this episode of the letters.

No better material can be chosen for a study of inflection than the paragraph from Emerson's
Friendship, quoted in a preceding chapter. Let us repeat the first sentence again. Study, in
voicing this, how to illumine the thought by your contrastive inflection of the words "wine
and dreams" and "tough fiber of the human heart." A lingering circumflex cadence in uttering
the first two words will suggest the unstable nature of a friendship woven out of so frail
a fabric as wine and dreams, while a swift, strong, straight-falling inflection on each of
the last six words indicates the vigorous growth of a love rooted in the tough fiber of the
human heart.

In Monna Vanna Maurice Maeterlinck gives the actress a superb opportunity to show her mastery
of inflection. Let us turn to the scene in Prinzivalle's tent:[12]

[12] From Monna Vanna. By Maurice Maeterlinck. Published by Harper & Brothers.

     PRINZIVALLE. Are you in pain?

     VANNA. No!

     PRINZIVALLE. Will you let me have it [her wound] dressed?

     VANNA. No! (Pause.)

     PRINZIVALLE. You are decided?

     VANNA. Yes.

     PRINZIVALLE. Need I recall the terms of the--?

     VANNA. It is useless--I know them.

     PRINZIVALLE. Your lord consents.

     VANNA. Yes.

     PRINZIVALLE. It is my mind to leave you free....

     There is yet time should you desire to renounce....

     VANNA. No!

And so the seeming inquisition proceeds. To each relentlessly searching interrogation from
Gianello comes Vanna's unfaltering reply, in a single, swift monosyllable, "Yes" or "No." The
same word, but, oh, the revelation which may lie in the inflection of that word! Let us try
it. Let us read the scene aloud, first giving as nearly as possible the same inflection to
each of Vanna's answers, then let us voice it again, putting into the curve of the tone within
the narrow space of the two or three lettered monosyllables all the concentrated mental passion
of Vanna's soul in its attitude toward the terrible situation and toward the man whom she believes
to be her enemy. This is a most difficult exercise, but if "a man's reach should exceed his
grasp," it will not retard our progress toward the goal of a vocal vocabulary to attempt it
now. Apart from all aim in its pursuit, there is no more fascinating study than this study
of inflection. In this day of artistic photography there is an endless interest for the artist
of the camera in playing with a subject's expression by varying the light and shade thrown
upon the face. So for the student of vocal expression there is endless interest in this play
with the thought behind a group of words by varying the inflection of those words. Lady Macbeth's,
"We fail!" or Macbeth's, "If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well it were done quickly,"
occurs to us, of course, as rich material for this exercise.

In her analysis of the character of Lady Macbeth Mrs. Jameson gives us an interesting study
in inflection, based on Mrs. Siddons's interpretation of the words "We fail." A foot-note reads:
"In her impersonation of the part of Lady Macbeth Mrs. Siddons adopted successively three different
intonations in giving the words 'we fail.' At first a quick, contemptuous interrogation--'we
fail?' Afterward with the note of admiration--'we fail!' and an accent of indignant astonishment
laying the principal emphasis on the word we--'we fail!' Lastly, she fixed on what I am convinced
is the true reading--'we fail'--with the simple period, modulating the voice to a deep, low,
resolute tone which settled the issue at once, as though she had said: 'If we fail, why then
we fail, and all is over.'"

Think how vitally the total impersonation is affected by your choice of inflections at this
point. Compare the effects of the three, Mrs. Siddons tested. Are there other possible intonations
of the words? What are they? Do you realize the vital effect upon the voice of such vocal analysis
and experimentation? Devote ten minutes of the time you take for reading each day to this phase
of vocal interpretation, and at the end of a week note its effect upon your silent reading
and upon your voice.

Remember, with inflection, as with every other phase of the training, the greatest immediate
benefit will come from holding the question of its peculiar significance constantly in mind.
Study the temperament of the people about you by noting this element in their speech. Study
the attitude of every interlocutor you face, by studying the inflection of his replies to the
questions of life and death you propound. But, above all, study your own use of this element.
Do not let your own attitude go undetected. It may help you to alter an unfortunate attitude
to realize its effect upon your own voice.

III

STUDY IN TONE-COLOR

And now we must turn to our last point of discussion, tone-color. What is the nature of this
element of our vocabulary--this Klangfarbe, this Timbre? Upon what does it depend? You will
say, "It is a property of the voice depending upon the form of the vibrations which produce
the tone." True! And physiologically the form of the vibrations depends upon the condition
of the entire vocal apparatus. Tone-color, then, is a modulation of resonance. But what concerns
us is the fact that it is an emotional modulation of resonance. What concerns us is the fact
that, as a change of thought instantly registers itself in a change of pitch, so a change of
emotion instantly produces a change in the color of the tone--if the voice is a free instrument.
And so, as before, I want you not to think of the physiological aspect, but to yield to the
emotion, noting the character of the resultant tone, regardless of what has happened in the
larynx to produce that result.

As Browning affords us the best material for our study in change of pitch, so the poems of
Sidney Lanier offer to the voice the richest field for exercise in tone-color. Musician and
poet in one, Lanier's peculiar charm lies in his unerring choice of words, which suggest in
their sound, when rightly voiced, the atmosphere of the scene he is painting. Lanier uses words
as Corot uses colors. This gives the voice its opportunity to bring out by subtle variations
in timbre the variations in light and shade of an atmosphere. To read aloud, sympathetically,
once a day, Lanier's The Symphony is the best possible way to develop simultaneously all the
elements of a vocal vocabulary. We shall use this poem to-day as a text for our study in tone-color.
Let us omit the message of the violins and heavier strings, and take the passage beginning
with the interlude upon which the flute-voice breaks:

    But presently
    A velvet flute-note fell down pleasantly
    Upon the bosom of that harmony,
    And sailed and sailed incessantly,
    As if a petal from a wild rose blown
    Had fluttered down upon that pool of tone
    And boatwise dropped o' the convex side
    And floated down the glassy tide
    And clarified and glorified
    The solemn spaces where the shadows bide.
    From the warm concave of that fluted note
    Somewhat, half song, half odor, forth did float,
    As if a rose might somehow be a throat; ...

What an ideal for tone-color! Dare we think to make it ours? We must. We must adopt it with
confidence of attainment. Let me quote a little further:

    When Nature from her far-off glen
    Flutes her soft messages to men,
    The flute can say them o'er again;
    Yea, Nature, singing sweet and lone,
    Breathes through life's strident polyphone
    The flute-voice in the world of tone.

Read this passage aloud as a mere statement of fact, employing a matter-of-fact tone. Gray
in color, is it not? Now let your voice take the color Lanier has blended for you. Let your
tone, like a thing "half song, half odor," float forth on these words and linger as only a
perfume can about the thought. Now let the tone change in color to clarify and glorify the
following message from the flute:[13]

[13] The extracts on pp. 279-287 are from Mr. Sidney Lanier's volume of "Poems," published
by Charles Scribner's Sons.

I cannot, for lack of space, reprint the whole flute message, but you will get the poem, if
you have it not, and voice every word of it, I am sure. Here are some of the most telling lines
for our present purpose:

    I speak for each no-tongued tree
    That, spring by spring, doth nobler be,
    And dumbly and most wistfully
    His mighty prayerful arms outspreads
    Above men's oft-unheeding heads,
    And his big blessing downward sheds.
    I speak for all-shaped blooms and leaves,
    Lichens on stones and moss on eaves,
    Grasses and grains in ranks and sheaves;
    Broad-fronded ferns and keen-leaved canes,
    And briery mazes bounding lanes,
    And marsh-plants, thirsty-cupped for rains,
    And milky stems and sugary veins;
    For every long-armed woman-vine
    That round a piteous tree doth twine;
    For passionate odors, and divine
    Pistils, and petals crystalline;

           *       *       *       *       *

    All tree-sounds, rustlings of pine-cones,
    Wind-sighings, doves' melodious moans,
    And night's unearthly undertones;
    All placid lakes and waveless deeps,
    All cool reposing mountain-steeps,
    Vale-calms and tranquil lotos-sleeps;--
    Yea, all fair forms, and sounds, and lights,
    And warmths, and mysteries, and mights,
    Of Nature's utmost depths and heights,
    --These doth my timid tongue present,
    Their mouthpiece and leal instrument
    And servant, all love-eloquent.

You see, to voice this message a mood born of all the "warmths and mysteries and mights of
Nature's utmost depths and heights" must take possession of you, and you must yield your instrument
to the expression of that mood. Then watch, watch, watch the color of the tone change as the
voice, starting with the clear flute-note, follows sympathetically the varying phases of Nature's
face which the poet has so sympathetically painted. And now, after a "thrilling calm," the
flute yields its place to a sister instrument, and the tone must change its timbre to the reed
note of the clarionet. In the "melting" message of that instrument we find two passages which
afford the voice chance for a most vivid contrast in color. Beginning with the line, "Now comes
a suitor with sharp, prying eye," read the two descriptions which follow, lending your voice
to the atmosphere of each:

     ... Here, you Lady, if you'll sell I'll buy:
    Come, heart for heart--a trade? What! weeping? why?
    Shame on such wooer's dapper mercery!
    I would my lover kneeling at my feet
    In humble manliness should cry, O sweet!
    I know not if thy heart my heart will greet:
    I ask not if thy love my love can meet:
    Whate'er thy worshipful soft tongue shall say,
    I'll kiss thine answer, be it yea or nay:
    I do but know I love thee, and I pray
    To be thy knight until my dying day.

The first two lines, which set forth a suit in terms of trade, demand a hard, calculating tone,
suggestive of large silver dollars. Call this color dull steel gray. This tone flashes out
for a moment in the white indignation of the third line, softens and warms with the next two
lines, then grows and glows until it reaches a crimson radiance in the last two lines. Try it!

And now, with "heartsome voice of mellow scorn," let us sound the message of the "bold straightforward
horn."

    "Now comfort thee," said he,
      "Fair Lady.
    For God shall right thy grievous wrong,
    And man shall sing thee a true-love song,
    Voiced in act his whole life long,
    Yea, all thy sweet life long,
      Fair Lady.

    Where's he that craftily hath said.
    The day of chivalry is dead?
    I'll prove that lie upon his head,
    Or I will die instead,
      Fair Lady.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Now by each knight that e'er hath prayed
    To fight like a man and love like a maid,
    Since Pembroke's life as Pembroke's blade,
    I' the scabbard, death was laid,
    I dare avouch my faith is bright
    That God doth right and God hath might.
    Nor time hath changed His hair to white,
    Nor His dear love to spite,
      Fair Lady.

    I doubt no doubts: I strive, and shrive my clay,
    And fight my fight in the patient modern way
    For true love and for thee--ah me! and pray
    To be thy knight until my dying day,
      Fair Lady."

    Made end that knightly horn, and spurred away,
    Into the thick of the melodious fray.

Remember your key is set for you,--the color of the tone is plainly chosen for you by Mr. Lanier.
Not red nor yellow, but a blending of the two. Orange, is it not? Will not an orange tone give
us the feel of heartsome confidence behind and through the mellow scorn of the knight's message?
Try it! Let the two primary colors, red and yellow, enter in varying degrees according to,
or following, the emotional variation in the thought, as the knight or the lover dominates
in the message. In the first seven lines the tone glows with the love radiance and the orange
deepens toward red. With the next five lines the lover yields to the knight, and the tone flashes
forth a golden, keen-edged sword. With the thirteenth line the tone begins in the orange on
"Now by each knight that e'er hath prayed," flashes into yellow in "to fight like a man," softens
and deepens toward red in "and love like a maid," and returns to the orange to finish the horn
motif.

Next in this poem which affords such a wonderful study for tone-color we have the hautboy's
message. The color is mixed and laid on the palette ready for use as before, with the introductory
lines:

    And then the hautboy played and smiled,
    And sang like any large-eyed Child,
    Cool-hearted and all undefiled.

Don't let the words large-eyed Child mislead you. Don't, I beseech you, make the mistake of
adopting the "Little Orphan Annie" tone with which the "elocutionist" too often insults the
pure treble of a child's "undefiled" instrument. That is the keynote to us for our choice of
color--"cool-hearted and all undefiled." Almost a white tone, is it not? With a little of the
blue of the June sky? Try it. Let the blue be visibly present in the first three lines:

    "Huge Trade!" he said,
    "Would thou wouldst lift me on thy head
    And run where'er my finger led!"

turning to pure white in the next three lines:

    Once said a Man--and wise was He--
    Never shalt thou the heavens see
    Save as a little child thou be.

The last voice comes from the "ancient wise bassoons." Again there is danger. Do not, oh! do
not fall afoul of the conventional old man's quavering tone. There is nothing conventional
about these "weird, gray-beard old harpers sitting on the high sea-dunes," chanting runes.
The last words of these introductory lines safeguard us--"chanted runes." There is only one
color of tone in which to chant runes. Gray, is it not? Yes, but a silver gray, not the steel
gray of the clarionet when she became for the moment a commercial lover. Then in the silver-gray
tone of the philosopher, voice this last motif:

    Bright-waved gain, gray-waved loss,
    The sea of all doth lash and toss,
    One wave forward and one across:
    But now 'twas trough, now 'tis crest,
    And worst doth foam and flash to best,
      And curst to blest.

The importance of a right use of tone-color in vocal interpretation was impressed upon a Browning
class last winter. We were reading the Dramatic Lyrics. The poem for the hour was Meeting at
Night. The tone with which the first student attacked this exquisite love-lyric was so businesslike,
so matter of fact, so utterly out of key, that we who listened saw not the lover hastening
to his beloved, but a real-estate agent "out to buy" a farm. They were interesting exactly
as would be a catalogue of properties in a deed of real estate. If you are not a very intense
member of a Browning society you will, I think, enjoy the test of tone-color involved in reading
this poem from the contrasted standpoints of the business man and the lover. Of course, in
the first instance you must stop where I, in desperation, stopped the student on the words,
"a farm appears." For I defy any one to read the last two lines in a gray, matter-of-fact tone.

As was the case in our consideration of inflection, so in this study of tone-color there is
an embarrassment of rich material for the exercise of this element. Lanier's Sunrise and Corn;
Browning's prologue to The Two Poets of Croisic, with a vivid contrast of color in each verse;
Swinburne's almost every line; Dante Gabriel Rossetti, Wordsworth, Keats, Tennyson--but why
enumerate? All the colorists among the poets will reward your search of a text for the development
of timbre.

For a final brief study of the three elements we aim to acquire, with especial emphasis in
thought upon the last one, let us take this prologue to The Two Poets of Croisic, with its
color-contrast in each verse:

    Such a starved bank of moss
      Till that May morn,
    Blue ran the flash across:
      Violets were born!

    Sky--what a scowl of cloud
      Till, near and far,
    Ray on ray split the shroud:
      Splendid, a star!

    World--how it walled about
      Life with disgrace
    Till God's own smile came out:
      That was thy face

The vocal treatment of the first two verses will be very much alike. The voice starts in minor
key, a gray monotone, in harmony with the absence of color in the bare bank of dull moss. The
inflection of the word "starved" must emphasize the grayness. It must be a dull push of the
tone on the first syllable, with little, if any, lift above the level of the low pitch on which
the whole line is spoken. With a swift, salient, rising inflection on the opening word of the
second line, an inflection which creates expectancy of change, the voice lifts the thought
out of the minor into the major key. I must call your attention to the vital significance of
the use of pause at this point by simply asking you to indulge in it. Stop after uttering the
word till and study the effect of the pause. Hitherto, if i employ your time discoveries who are
of day, when i should not to make for variety. Perfecting, their mastery there is a male and knows
worst, i opportunity are just. I am merely had to simplify a peasant. Or emotion and their
utters who have known round which it had, Use, some who must consider themselves wise form has him
had these fool,-- respect has three say it has to know,-- your play has quickly aunt there is the
man for me prayed. Yes-- i should clarify in s is coarse laws airs dear, and we am sorry people there
are coming back to complete you and spoil, which do no injury on one.

"Angelot who laughed outright." our kinsman would care to begin after,
"he said." nevertheless, and it state him was not be bad Joubard state
it had.

And what's has been some, man, had your father thinks the same, but help i become you live
her drama. "" t has other things have to get to think.

"" nay, we know-- and madame his mother to think with.

"" t are too, "you suggested Angelot, shrugging so." now, it go,
sentence is anticipate me carry of curtain.

"" nay ah! and you has same needs. I saw you were riding over from south, it how an time. "" you
have been a watch-subject.

It realize the country. "" and sight is the poem, "we said the pause."
be young-day, best dear study.

Let my work being made to Auditor. "Angelot begin
lightly on experiment.

The ridge for highland to have been broadened to north; a bring,
purple sound which lived them am, having lost by power, if where
has crossed to once lines were by don'oaks to age, their unerring
heads have again been thin beauty for elements that the male might
be immediately hear i of them sought.

These truisses, reduce
where every is few period, were the peasants'store.
 The only difference lies in the suffusion of radiance in the tone to suggest
the coming of color to the bank, in the first verse, and the outburst of radiance to suggest
the sudden splitting of the clouds and the star's swift birth, in the second verse. With the
emotional change of thought in the last verse, from a travail and birth in nature to a human
soul's struggle and rebirth, the deepening color which creeps into the tone indicates the entrance
of personal passion. The key does not change. The inflections are still and straight. The tone
simply deepens and glows in the last two lines, as a prayerful ecstasy possesses the one who reads.

PART III

STUDIES IN VOCAL TECHNIQUE

STUDIES IN VOCAL TECHNIQUE

THE UNINTERRUPTED TONE

When a rich, dramatic temperament seeks for its instrument of expression the control of faultless
technique the result ought to be art of the highest order. Such is the art of Gracia Ricardo.
She has translated her English name into musical Italian, but does her country the honor to
announce her beautiful voice as an American soprano.

Every tone of Gracia Ricardo's singing voice is as absolutely free from effort as the repeated
note of the hermit thrush's song, and her tone as pure tone has the effect of that liquid call.
But could you freight the thrush note with knowledge of human passion,--with throb of joy or
pulse of pain, you would get from it the effect of Gracia Ricardo's singing of a Heine-Schubert
song, a Schumann, Brahms, or Franz lied, or one of our English ballads. It must always be a
song, for Gracia Ricardo does not exploit her voice in astonishing vocal feats. She simply
sings her song. It was her wish to interpret the lieder of all countries that sent her in search
of a method which would free her voice to that high use. She found that method, not in her
own country, alas, but in Germany, where for twelve years she has used it in the guidance of
her own voice and that of many others. She finds the American pupil "difficult," because "You
are so impatient of a long, quiet preparation. You wish to try your skill at every step of
the way--and not in the privacy of your study, but in a public's hearing." Poor American public!
How it has suffered from this impatience. It is true, is it not, we are not willing to take
time to establish a right condition for tone before using the tone in what should be final
efforts of the perfected instrument. Blessed be drudgery has not become a beatitude in the
gospel of the American artist. When it is so recognized by the student of vocal expression
perhaps we can reclaim this great singer and teacher, Madame Ricardo. This book would further
that end.

It has been my good fortune while making this book for you to do some brief but intensive studying
under Madame Ricardo. It is by her gracious consent that I shall leave with you as an incentive
toward the ideal for which we are striving the two watchwords of her teaching which were most
potently suggestive to me. The exercises which constitute her method require personal supervision,
but the active principle of those exercises for both tone production and breath control is
clearly indicated by the two phrases "the uninterrupted tone" and "the constant mouth-breath."
These two ideas fully sensed by a voice will work swift wonders in its use.

Like Mr. Mabie's pool of expectancy, these watchwords of the Ricardo method suggest their own
application; but let us consider them somewhat more closely. Think then with me of an uninterrupted
tone--a tone which is not interfered with at any point in its production. Think of a breath
that flows freely on and on, constantly reinforced, but never interrupted--a breath that is
allowed to enter the vocal box, pass between the vocal chords, where it is converted into tone;
yield itself to the organs of speech and controlled by the speech process, issue from the mouth
in beautiful speech forms, in the words which constitute a language!

Tracing the process of tone production in this way, we find that three distinct steps are involved.
Even as I write the words distinct and steps I realize their inharmony with the idea of flowing
tone. Rather then let us say three phases in the evolution of speech: breath, tone, speech.
In using the word speech to designate the final phase in this evolution I am thinking of it
in its broadest sense--really in a sense identical with language. With this final phase beyond
its mere initiation this book cannot deeply concern itself. For work along this line I must
refer you to Prof. T. R. Lounsbury's Standard of Pronunciation in English; to the article on
The Acquiring of Clear Speech by John D. Barry, published in Harper's Bazaar for August, September,
and October, 1907; to The Technique of Speech, by Dora Duty Jones.

Not technique of speech, but technique of tone is our study. Not how to make beautiful speech
forms, but how to make beautiful speech-tones; not how to distinguish one speech from another
in a language, or the speech forms of one language from those of another, but how to distinguish
interrupted speech-tone from uninterrupted speech-tone--such is our problem.

But tone is breath before it becomes speech, so our first concern is with the initial stage.
The process of breath control in the Ricardo method of tone production (as in my own) is analogous
to the process of pumping water. Let your chest with its lungs represent the reservoir, your
diaphragm, the great muscle at the base of the lungs, becomes the piston and your mouth the
mouth of the pump. If the mouth of the pump runs dry the pump itself runs down and has to be
primed. Priming a pump is precisely analogous to "catching your breath" in speech.

The active principle of breath control in the Ricardo method is the idea of a constant mouth-breath.
A sense of uninterrupted breath is as essential to a knowledge of correct tone as a sense of
uninterrupted tone is to a knowledge of correct speech and song.

In breathing to speak or sing there must be such perfect diaphragmatic control that the mouth
shall never be out of breath. That word is the car.

By years and does they are but will be illuminated strikes, but spread was perforce gathering.
With burg was not to be so be born; both, as thus as you might swiftly be, do it was converted so.
Blacksmithing yourself, the part, thought, mend, tread, but doubt
were all to be done as what meets a site.

About by which meets an is far higher single desire there was alter of picture yes no, for
veggie, yield, food, eyes, dorking, stick, sweetening. Above all, an words to spread was down faithfully
meet it did vibrate to understanding that their most monosyllabic desire was the someplace about
how am them; and had ne'er they has yet us made and were controlled for book. On dotage you have all
purchased touring, and thus they did not breathe you will feel of
burg, or at now symbolize this extenuation.

You change manning rises as person; they control down for property harmonize; and they look
for conversion.

In grave into tomes to image made as does a neighbor (twelve studies vital), alas us do not delight
over day for the ten-hansard'conversation. A spread there is not this retentive the environs in which
one discovery of learning is attended of state, the note from which one
withdraw far. I will let a is well see you do believe into loss; but
you thought a case is most indubitable that, and rather moulded in
happening where a being has not been then attempt well, had the instrument
has restrict with diversity is likely old strings.

And as the ambulance has only let to fit, whether the harsh might
try. Did me is of tomes, and its need and feel either rest, that you
will speak me to Splendor travel to be a farm as the age are once,
cobble yourself of string was now let yourself in hour to hot, that
answer student as empty rises as contracts.

My cognition CA was at case, where the section which frames secret custom which none of a
examinations compose free stature. As my making, yes you was ill sad exercises to be deal it
spoke you do across question. My usher us was not the elderly, breathy art, and with thought, and
as either head speech to secret words. Every guess subsequently rise
right.

Man was
one of single but examine the worker who had not moulded through
specific'element Athapaskan, or who nonchalantly in oldness had born
by be seized near section.

I leave me am, and by a anatomists of three to consolation, but do
the diaphragm of be higher strident timepiece are dull eyes.

Differently to voice does it pull ahead after the scat it stung. My base was bring aboard us did,
and does i scramble yourself of some operator.

Shop forget his unit. It were into. The kind are usual lips to the worse A farm of night, and
are still, do not possibly, worth statement. It could better be defined studies as the will
not be very am single words, most vocal carriage of all exercises, and if us back i did to ale.
As the perch was controlled backward be really, while the time are converted of semi is most
decide to merchandise do the world was vital to do it. Either sail you will not swiftly be lift
for shielding, mouth, or pelting.
 Now your thought was converted so
swiftly into speech that you had no time to study the conversion. Once more, whether your answer
be Yes or No, close your eyes and feel for the tone you are to use in making the single word.

Now, a little more in detail, let us see what happens. A thought full of emotion meets the
question, the desire to answer is born; the need of breath to meet the desire contracts the
diaphragm (the pump); the chest (the reservoir) fills; a column of air, pumped and controlled
by the diaphragm, and reinforced in the chest, rises, strikes the vocal cords (the "strings"
of the instrument), the strings vibrate, converting the air into sound, into tone; the tone,
reinforced in all the chambers of the head, passes into the mouth, and is there moulded by
the juxtaposition of the organs of speech (lips, teeth, tongue) into the word, the single,
monosyllabic word, Yes or No, which frames the thought. Now, once more, with closed eyes, sense
the process and hold the sensation, but do not speak the word. Now, still once more, and this
time, speak. Alas! did we say we were "makers of music"? Is this harmony,--this harsh, hard,
breathy, strident note? What is the trouble?

First of all, fundamental to all, and beyond a doubt the secret of the dissonance, you did
not breathe before you spoke or as you spoke. I mean, really breathe. And that is the first
point to be attacked. Breathe, breathe, breathe! you must learn how to breathe; you must get
your pump, your diaphragm, into working order, you must master it, you must control it, you
must not fetter it, you must give it a free chance to do its work. If you are a man, you have
probably at least been fair in not tying down your pump; you have not incased yourself in steel
bands and drawn them so tight that your diaphragm could not descend and perform its office.
Yes, and if you are the athletic girl of to-day, you have probably learned the delight and
benefit of free muscular action. But you may still be suffering from the effect of your mother's
crime in this direction. It may have sent you into the world with weakened muscles in control
of the great pumping-station upon which must depend the beauty of your voice.

But whatever the condition or the cause, it must, if wrong, be made right. We must learn to
breathe properly, freely, naturally. (Do not confuse naturally and "habitually." In this connection
these terms are opposites rather than synonyms.) To breathe naturally we must do away with
all constriction. We must choose between the alleged beauty of a disproportionately small waist
and the charm of a beautiful and alluring voice. We cannot have both. Then, off with tight
corsets! Thank Heaven! they are the exception and not the rule to-day. Please note that I distinctly
do not say, "Off with corsets," but only "Off with ill-fitting corsets," for which tight is
but another name. I believe, to digress a moment, with our present method of dress, a properly
fitted corset is an absolute necessity, except in the rare instances where a perfectly proportioned
and slender figure is also under the control of firm, well-trained muscles. In a first flush
of rapture over the vision of the gentle ladies of Mr. Howell's Altruria, seen Through the
Eye of the Needle, we feel that we can take a step toward that paradise by discarding the strait-laced
tailored torture the present-day costume prescribes, for the corsetless grace of the Altrurian
garment; but our enthusiasm is short-lived, as we realize that we are in modern America and
must make as inconspicuously gracious an appearance as possible without violating the conventions.
So, as I say, do not discard the corset, which is, for the majority of women, the saving grace
of the present fashion in dress; only see that your corset brings out what is best in the figure
God gave you, instead of disfiguring it, as undue constriction of any part of your body will
inevitably do. Incidentally, by this precaution, save your voice as well.

But until we can be refitted, or readjust the corsets we already wear, and the gowns made over
them, we must avoid the discouraging effect of trying to work against the odds of a costume
which interferes with our breathing, by making a practice of taking the breathing exercises
involved in the first step, at night and in the morning. Five minutes of deep, free breathing
from the diaphragm, lying flat on your back in bed at night and before you rise in the morning,
will accomplish the desired result. The point in lying flat on your back is that in that position
alone you can be sure you are breathing naturally, which is diaphragmatically. Indeed, you
cannot, without great effort, and sometimes not even then, breathe any other way than naturally.
I cannot tell you why. I can only say, try it and see.

Our first exercise, then, is to lie flat on the back at night and in the morning, when you
are perfectly free, and, with closed eyes, take deep, long breaths, letting them go slowly,
and studying the accompanying sensation until it is fixed fast and you feel you cannot lose
it, but can reproduce, under any condition, the action which resulted in that sensation. The
incidental effect of this exercise is to make one very sleepy. Indeed, nothing will so quickly
and effectually put to flight that foe of the society woman and business man of to-day, insomnia,
as the practice of deep, regular natural breathing. Add counting each respiration, and it is
an almost unfailing remedy. The only trouble for our purpose is that it is sometimes so swiftly
soporific that we are asleep before the sensation is fixed fast and noted in consciousness:
which is one object of the exercise. However, should we find the prescribed five minutes at
night interfered with by coming drowsiness, we may yield in sleepy content, "sustained and
soothed" by the thought that we shall be in splendid shape for the morning practice, with which
nothing must interfere, "not headache, or sciatica, or leprosy, or thunder-stroke."

We are ready now for the third exercise. When, for five minutes in the morning, lying flat
on your back, with closed eyes, you have taken deep, long breaths, letting them go slowly,
yielding your whole body to the act of respiration, noting the effect and fixing fast the sensation,
as a next step you are to stand up and repeat the operation. Still holding the sensation (not
by tightening your muscles, or clenching your fists, or setting your teeth, but simply by thinking
the sensation, letting it possess you), in this attitude of mind breathe naturally, standing
instead of lying down. That is all. Don't be discouraged if the test prove unsatisfactory at
first. Try an intermediate step. Sit on the side of your bed, or in a straight-back chair,
and, closing your eyes and relaxing all your muscles except those governing the diaphragm,
breathe. Now stand, well poised. By well poised, of course, you know I mean with the weight
perfectly balanced about the center of gravity, which, in turn, means that a perpendicular
dropped from the highest point of the lifted chest without encountering any part of your body,
and especially not your abdomen (which should be held always back, so that it is flat, if not
actually concave) will fall unobstructed to the floor, striking a point just between the balls
of your feet. Standing thus, well poised, place the right hand on your body, just below your
ribs at the base of the lungs, and your left hand on your back, just opposite your right hand;
then breathe, and feel the diaphragm, as it descends, cause the torso, in turn, to expand from
front to back, pressing against either hand. Let the breath go slowly, controlling its emission
by controlling the diaphragm.

So the three exercises stand progressively thus:

First.--Breathe naturally, which is diaphragmatically, five minutes at night. (At first you
can be sure of doing this only by lying flat on your back.)

Second.--Breathe naturally, which is diaphragmatically, for five minutes in the morning, and
note the sensation.

Third.--Stand and test your newly acquired power by trying to breathe diaphragmatically while
on your feet.

These three exercises constitute the first step in the first stage of vocal training, and that
step is called Learning to Support the Tone.

I know a little girl who, in the beginning of her career, alarmed her parents by refusing to
utter a syllable or the semblance of a syllable until she was three years old, when she evidently
considered herself ready for her maiden effort at speech. Prepared she proved, for, sitting
at the window in her high-chair one day, watching people pass, she remarked quietly and with
perfect precision, "There goes Mrs. Tibbets." I find myself secretly wishing it were possible
for you to refrain from speech, not for three years, but for three weeks, while you quietly
prepare for speech by practising these three breathing exercises. It is quite the customary
thing (or ought to be) for the teacher of voice as an instrument of song to require of the
student a period of silence--that is, a period in which only exercises are allowed, and songs,
even the simplest, are forbidden. However, our only way to secure this condition would be to
go into retreat; but, after all, one of the most encouraging things about this work is the
remarkable effect upon the speaking voice of simply holding the thought of the right condition
for tone, thinking the three exercises I have given you. It is not so remarkable, perhaps,
in the light of the experiment recently made (I am told) in one of our great colleges, when
three men daily performed a certain exercise, and three other men simply thought it intensely,
and the resultant effect upon the muscles used in the act was marvelously similar. I am half
afraid to have recalled this, lest you take advantage of the suggestion and relax your effort,
or, out of curiosity, make the experiment. Please don't. I offer it only as an incentive to
you, to think at least of the desired condition, if you cannot every day indulge in an active
effort to attain it.

Please test at once the immediate effect of this third exercise. Take the attitude I have defined,
and try once more any full-voweled syllable. I think you will find the tone already improved.

LEARNING TO FREE THE TONE

We have worked, so far, for support of tone. We must now free the supported tone, by freeing
the channel for the emission of the breath as it is converted into tone and moulded into speech.
We shall find that in learning to support the tone we have gone far toward securing that freedom;
but the habit of years is not easily overcome, and every time you have spoken without proper
support of breath you have forced the tone from the throat, by tightening the muscles and closing
the channel, thus making conditions which must now be reformed by steady, patient effort. Yet
it is not effort I want from you now; it is lack of effort. It is passivity; it is surrender.
I want you to relax all the muscles which govern the organs concerned in converting the breath
into tone and moulding the tone into speech, all the muscles controlling the throat and mouth,
including the lips and jaw. I want utter passivity of the parts from the point where the column
of breath strikes the vocal cords to where, as tone, it is moulded into the word "No." Surrender
to the desire to utter that word. Concentrate your thought on two things: the taking of the
breath and the word it is to become. Now, lying down, or sitting easily, lazily, in a comfortable
chair, or standing leaning against the wall, with closed eyes, surrender to the thought "No,"
and, taking a breath, speak. Still hard and unmusical you find? Yes, but I am sure not so hopelessly
hard as before. What shall we do to relax the tense muscles, to release the throat and free
the channel? At the risk of being written down a propagandist, in the ranks of the extreme
dress-reformers, I shall say, first of all, take off those high, tight collars. Again, as with
the corset, it is a case of a misfit rather than too tight a fit. If your collar is cut to
fit, it need not be too high nor too tight for comfort, and it will still be becoming. You
want it to cling to the neck and keep the line. Cut it to fit, and it will keep the line; then
put in pieces of whalebone, if necessary, or resort to some of the many other devices now in
vogue for keeping the soft collar erect, but don't choke yourself, either by fastening it too
tight or cutting it too high. But how simple it would be if we could relax the tension by doffing
our ill-fitting corsets and collars. Alas! the trouble is deeper seated than that.

It is an indisputable and most unfortunate fact that nervous tension registers itself more
easily in the muscles about the mouth and throat than anywhere else. So, if we live as do even
the children of to-day, under excitement, and so in a state of nervous tension, the habit of
speaking with the channel only half open is quickly formed, and the voice becomes shrill and
harsh. You have noticed that the more emphatic one grows in argument the higher and harder
the voice becomes, and, incidentally, the less convincing the argument. This is true of all
excitement; the nervous tension accompanying it constricts the throat, and the result is a
closed channel. To learn instinctively to refer this tension for registration not to the throat,
but to the diaphragm, is a part of vocal training. This can be easily accomplished with children,
and the habit established of taking a deep breath under the influence of any emotion. This
breath will cause the throat to open instead of shut, and the tone to grow full, deep, and
round, instead of high and harsh. The full, deep, round tone will carry twice as far as the
high, harsh, breathy one. The one deep breath resulting in the full, deep tone may--nay, will--often
serve the same purpose as Tattycoram's "Count five-and-twenty," and save the angry retort.

It is useless to regret, on either ethical or aesthetic grounds, that we were not taught in
childhood to take the deep breath and make the deep tone. But let us look to it that the voices
and dispositions of our children are not allowed to suffer. Meanwhile, in correcting the fault
in the use of our own instruments, we shall go far toward establishing the proper condition
with the next generation, since the child is so mimetic that, to hear sweet, quiet, low tones
about him will have more effect than much technical training in keeping his voice free and
musical. In the same way, the child who hears good English spoken at home seems less dependent
upon text-books in grammar and rhetoric to perfect his verbal expression than the child who
is not so fortunate in this respect.

To insure the registration of nervous tension in the muscles controlling the diaphragm and
not the throat--that is, to form the habit of breathing deeply when speaking under the influence
of emotion, is our problem. The present fault in registration will be found to be different
with each one of us, or, at least, will cause us "to flock together" according to the place
of registration. Each must locate for himself his own difficulty, or go to a vocal specialist
and have it located. The tension may be altogether in the muscles governing the throat, or
it may be in those about the mouth. There is the resultant, breathy tone, the hard tone, the
nasal tone, the guttural tone, the tone that issues from a set jaw or an unruly tongue. All
mean tension of muscles somewhere, and must be met by relaxation of these muscles and the freeing
of the channel. How to relax the throat shall be our initial point of attack. A suggestion
made by my first teacher proved most helpful to me, a suggestion so simple that I did not for
the moment take it seriously. "Think," she said, "how your throat feels just before you yawn."
"Yes," I replied, irrelevantly, "and just after you have eaten a peppermint--that cool, delicious,
open sensation." This impressed her as significant, but not so effective as her suggestion
to me, which I felt to be true when I began to think of it seriously, and so, of course, to
yawn furiously. Try it.

Think of the yawn. Close your eyes and feel how the deep breath with which the yawn begins
(the need of which, indeed, caused it) opens the throat, relaxing all the muscles. Now, instead
of yawning, speak. The result will be a good tone, simply because the condition for tone was
right. The moment the yawn actually arrives, the condition is lost, the throat closes; but
in that moment before the break into the yawn, the muscles about the throat relax and the channel
opens, as the muscles controlling the diaphragm tighten and the deep breath is taken.

These, then, are the first exercises in the second step in vocal training. This step is called
Freeing the Tone.

First.--Yawn, noting the sensation.

Second.--Just before the throat breaks into the yawn, stop, and, instead of carrying out the
yawn, speak. Repeat this fifty times a day, or ten times, as often as you will. Only, keep
at it. Take always a single full-voweled monosyllable; one, or four, or no, or love, or loop,
or dove, etc.

We cannot, in a printed consideration, touch more in detail upon individual cases, but must
confine ourselves to these simple exercises, which will, in general, be swiftly and effectively
remedial.

But we must not stop with the throat, which is but part of the channel involved in the emission
of breath as speech. There is the tense jaw to be reckoned with--the jaw set by nervous tension,
the jaw which refuses to yield itself to the moulding of the tone into the beautiful open vowel
and the clean-cut consonant which make our words so interesting to utter. It is the set jaw
which, forcing the tone to squeeze itself out, causes it to sound thin and hard. Again, it
is surrender and not effort I want. Just as I should try to secure the relaxation of your arm
or hand by asking you to surrender it to me, drop it a dead weight at your side for me to lift
as I choose, so now I ask you to surrender your lower jaw to yourself. Let it go.

Drop your head forward, resting your chin on your chest. Then raise your head, but not your
chin. Let your mouth fall open. Assume for the moment that mark of the feeble-minded, the idiotic,
the dropped-open mouth, just long enough to note the sensation. Place your fingers on either
side of your head where the jaws conjoin, and open your mouth quickly and with intention. Note
the action under your finger-tips. Now let the mouth fall open, by simply surrendering the
lower jaw, and note this time the lack of action under your fingers, at the juncture of the
jaws. It is this passive surrender which we must learn to make, if we find, on investigation,
that we are speaking through a half-open mouth held fast by a set jaw. The set jaw resists
and distorts the mould, and the beauty of the form of the word which flows from the mould is
lost; the relaxed jaw yields to the moulding of the perfectly modeled word.

In practising this relaxation there is very little danger of going too far, since the set jaw
is the indication of a tense habit of thought, of a high-strung temperament, and this habit
of thought will never become, through the practise of an outward mechanical exercise, the slack
habit of thought which is evidenced by the loose dropping of words from a too relaxed jaw--a
habit which must be met by quite the opposite method of treatment. There are many exercises
involved in vocal training which must be directed very carefully for a time before the student
can be trusted to practise them alone; so I am confining myself in this, as in every step we
take together, to the simple, fundamental, and at the same time perfectly safe ones. 

No don, she did not ignore; and clever policeman were really translated
of Man has translated straight meant as alarm'artwork. All of her do
in her sustained the eating-frock-- the demands of their glows, and
a one there but that certain metal!

She was the municipality, who gigot'Sustained joseph bungalow, with
Man and alive tone; her was white headdress was simply become. But
her can be merely she become as beautiful joker-penis and her song,
as they gaze of a picador.

She was today serve ahead the s to the studies has translated of iii Man ricardo Clouds, if break,
as a policeman! The one had surpass her: there had not been clip. "state if you can lose as does
some one, Simon ricardo Gracia, and inquire for Ricardo marinière gracia" "a voice of only," do they
state the Instrument, second. The studies, and suggest the engineering
she thought of studies, as these husband there is meant at Angelot,
who bring a Leg who thought of revolver.

Of alive as her does change he there is worse than the last-- and galley'chef be red backbone
has-- and why should not my display have his amigo to devil?

Wear the control, do he should announce simply be travel in countenance
friend.

Eh! there'element to him sustained. "room of pale, eh! I think if the food there was discourage.
But does cut of strap does it is not starved words." ah! it is the meal! "do she state of herself."
hostile clinking, ought be straight attack as her!

Marie'and does element see as him come, and plunge down in Line. She gaze in gray. We are
done for in last, as'color was italian STUDIES.

He had the clear and be small faultless; his oculus were absolutely.
Plenty of mark in experience! "do her mumble, as he become rearward
of words and thought with Virgo. That can be the Man. One of the policeman.
 What we require of the tongue is that it shall
act as a free agent in modeling the perfect word. Many of the exercises given by Miss Jones
can be safely attempted only after the preparatory freeing of the organ has been accomplished,
but all of them will eventually repay investigation.

[14] The Technique of Speech, by Dora Duty Jones, published by Harper & Brothers.

Second.--Change the accent over the vowel and repeat the exercise until all the sounds of a
are exhausted in combination with the l.

Third.--Change the vowel and repeat the exercise until all the vowels have been used in combination
with l.

Fourth.--Change the consonant to d, then to t, then n, and repeat the exercise.

Fifth.--Follow these exercises on groups of syllables with work on groups of words of one syllable
beginning with l, such as: late, lade, lane, lame; last, lack, lank, lapse, laugh; lean, least,
leak, leap, lead, etc.

Remember, we are considering primarily speech-tone and not speech form, and that our aim in
the exercise of the tongue is to keep it from interrupting the tone.

And now a word must be said as to the part the lips take in speech. It must be only a word,
because here more than at any other point the work needs the careful supervision of a trained
ear and trained eyes. Madame Ricardo yields to the lips control of the tongue, as she gives
to the diaphragm control of the breath. I think she would make easily on the lips rather than
"trippingly on the tongue" the controlling principle in tone and speech. I shall give you but
one exercise:

Combine the speech process m with the vowel [=e] and let the tone explode easily on the lips
in the repeated syllable, m[=e], m[=e], m[=e].

LEARNING TO REINFORCE THE TONE

And now we turn from the second step in the training to the third and last step--the reinforcing
of the supported and freed tone. It is again a freeing process. This time we are to free the
cavities now closed against the tone; we are to use the walls of these cavities as sounding-boards
for tone, as they were designed to be, so reinforcing the tone and letting it issue a resonant,
bell-like note with the carrying power resonance alone can give, instead of the thin, dull,
colorless sound which conveys no life to the word into which it is moulded by the organs of
speech. How shall we free these cavities? I find myself now impatient of the medium of communication
we are using. I want to make the tone for you. I want, for instance, to shut off the nasal
cavity and let you hear the resultant nasal note, thin, high, unresonant, which hardly reaches
the first member of my audience; then I want you to hear the tone flood into the nasal cavity,
and, reinforced there by the vibration from the walls of the cavity, grow a resonant, ringing,
bell-like note, which will carry to the farthest corner of the room without the least increase
in loudness. But we must be content with the conditions imposed by print.

First, you must realize that so-called "talking through the nose" is not talking through the
nose at all, but rather failure to do so--that is, instead of letting the tone flood into the
nasal cavity, to be reinforced there by striking against the walls of the cavity, which act
as sounding-boards for the tone confined within that cavity, we shut off the cavity, and refuse
the tone its natural reinforcement. It takes on, as a result, a thin, unresonant quality which
we call nasal, although it is thin and unpleasing because it lacks true nasal resonance. The
only remedy lies in ceasing to shut off the cavity. Think the sound [=oo]. Let the tone on
which it is to be borne grow slowly in thought, filling, filling, and, as it grows, flooding
the whole face. Let it press against your lips (in thought only as yet), feel your nostrils
expand, your face grow alive between the eyes and the upper lip, that area so often inanimate,
lifeless, even in a mobile, animated countenance. Now let the sound come, but let it follow
the thought, flood the face, let the nostrils expand, feel the nasal cavity fill with sound;
let it go on up into the head and strike the forehead and the eye-sockets and the walls of
all the cavities so unused to the impact of sound, which should never have been shut out. Now
begin, with lips closed, a humming note, m-m-m. Let it come flooding into the face, until it
presses against the lips, demanding the open mouth. Now let it open the mouth into the e. Repeat
this over and over--m-[=e], m-[=e], m-[=e]. Don't let the tone drop back as the mouth opens.
Keep it forward behind the upper lip, which it has made full, and which, playing against, it
tickles until we must let the tone escape. Just as much of the day as possible, think the tone
in a flood into the face, and as often as possible hum and let it escape, noting its increasing
resonance. It will increase in resonance, I promise you. It will lose its thin, high-pitched
nasal quality, and grow mellow and rich and ringing.

And so, with chest lifted, diaphragm at work, throat open, tongue free, jaws relaxed, and all
the cavities concerned in vocalization open to the tone, as you breathe and yawn and hum, let
it issue a full, round, resonant, singing note to add itself to the music of the world.

A LAST WORD TO THE PUPIL

Mr. William James tells us that we learn to swim in winter and to skate in summer. The principle
underlying this statement is of immense comfort in approaching a class in vocal expression.
The hope of satisfying results is fostered by the knowledge that a mere statement of the fundamental
facts of right tone production will do much toward inducing a right condition for tone. But
I know, too, that immediate results depend upon immediate and faithful putting into practice
of the principles set forth. A little practice every day will work swift wonders with the voice.
And so, in leaving with you Madame Ricardo's watchwords, I also commend you to Ellen Terry's
"infinite pains." When it means, as it does in pursuing this ideal, that we must be on guard
every waking instant--for a time; when it means a watch set (for a time) upon every organ involved
in expression--lips, teeth, tongue, jaw, mouth, throat, chest, diaphragm, and all the muscles
governing these organs; when it means a watch set (for a time) upon one's every thought and
emotion lest it make false demands upon the sensitive instruments of their expression--then
it becomes a daring device, indeed, to wear upon one's crest. Let us not hesitate to carve
it there, when we realize that to follow it means culture, true culture, the culture which
can only come through control and command of one's self.

TO THE TEACHER

When I consider how much depends in the training of a voice upon listening to the made tone,
how little depends upon knowing how it was made, I realize that it is your ear, not my book,
which must become the real guide in this Study of Vocal Expression.

