     MY DEAR CARRETA,--I write to you a few lines. I have now walked
     270 miles, and have passed through Leinster and Connaught. I
     have suffered a good deal of hardship, for this is a very
     different country to walk in from England. The food is bad and
     does not agree with me. I shall be glad to get back, but first
     of all I wish to walk to the Causeway. As soon as I have done
     that I shall get on railroad and return, as I find there is a
     railroad from Londonderry to Dublin. Pray direct to me at Post
     Office, Londonderry. I have at present about seven pounds
     remaining, perhaps it would bring me back to Dublin; however,
     to prevent accidents, have the kindness to enclose me an order
     on the Post Office, Londonderry, for five pounds. I expect to
     be there next Monday, and to be home by the end of the week.
     Glad enough I shall be to get back to you and Hen. I got your
     letter at Galway. What you said about poor Flora was
     comforting--pray take care of her. Don't forget the order. I
     hope to write in a day or two a kind of duplicate of this. I
     send Hen. heath from Connemara, and also seaweed from a bay of
     the Atlantic. I have walked across Ireland; the country people
     are civil; but I believe all classes are disposed to join the
     French. The idolatry and popery are beyond conception. God
     bless you, dearest.

                GEORGE BORROW.

     Love to Hen. and poor Flora. (Keep this.)

FOOTNOTES:

[193] Borrow had The Sleeping Bard printed at his own expense in Great Yarmouth in 1860, Mr.
Murray giving his imprint on the title-page. See Chapter XXXV. p. 404

[194] Which will be published in my edition of Borrow's Collected Works.

[195] Mr. James Barren of The Inverness Courier informs me that Borrow took a well-known route
between Fort Augustus and Badenoch, although nowadays it is rarely used, as Wade's Road has
been abandoned; it is very dilapidated. It was not quite so bad, he says, in 1858.

[196] Mr. Barron points out to me that as there was no direct railway communication Borrow
must have gone to Aberdeen or Huntly, and returned from the latter town to Inverness. He must
have taken a steamer from Tobermory to Fort William, and thence probably walked by Glen Spean
and Laggan to Kingussie. After that he must have traversed one of the passes leading by Ben
Macdhui or the Cairngorms to Aberdeenshire.

[197] Mr. Sheriff Robertson's son kindly sends me the following extract from the diary of his
father, James Robertson, Sheriff of Orkney:

'Friday, 26th November, 1858.--In the evening Geo. Petrie called with "Bible Borrow." He is
a man about 60, upwards of six feet in height, and of an athletic though somewhat gaunt frame.
His hair is pure white though a little bit thin on the top, his features high and handsome,
and his complexion ruddy and healthy. He was dressed in black, his surtout was old, his shoes
very muddy. He spoke in a loud tone of voice, knows Gaelic and Irish well, quoted Ian Lom,
Duncan Ban M'Intyre, etc., is publishing an account of Welsh, Irish, and Gaelic bards. He travelled--on
foot principally--from Inverness to Thurso, and is going on to-morrow to Zetland. He walked
lately through the upper part of Badenoch, Lochaber, and the adjacent counties, and through
Mull, which he greatly admired.... In his rambles he associated exclusively with the lower
classes, and when I offered to give him letters of introduction to Wm. F. Skene, Robert Chambers,
Joseph Robertson, etc., he declined to accept them. His mother died lately and he was travelling,
he said, to divert and throw off his melancholy. He talked very freely on all subjects that
one broached, but not with precision, and he appeared to me to be an amiable man and a gentleman,
but, withal, something of a projector, if not an adventurer. He is certainly eccentric. I asked
him to take wine, etc., and he declined. He said he was bred at the High School of Edinburgh,
and that he was there in 1813, and mentioned that he was partly educated in Ireland, and that
by birth and descent he is an Englishman.'

CHAPTER XXX

THE ROMANY RYE

George Borrow's three most important books had all a very interesting history. We have seen
the processes by which The Bible in Spain was built up from notebooks and letters. We have
seen further the most curious apprenticeship by which Lavengro came into existence. The most
distinctly English book--at least in a certain absence of cosmopolitanism--that Victorian literature
produced was to a great extent written on scraps of paper during a prolonged Continental tour
which included Constantinople and Budapest. In Lavengro we have only half a book, the whole
work, which included what came to be published as The Romany Rye, having been intended to appear
in four volumes. The first volume was written in 1843, the second in 1845, after the Continental
tour, which is made use of in the description of the Hungarian, and the third volume in the
years between 1845 and 1848. Then in 1852 Borrow wrote out an 'advertisement' of a fourth volume,[198]
which runs as follows:

     Shortly will be published in one volume. Price 10s. The
     Rommany Rye, Being the fourth volume of Lavengro. By George
     Borrow, author of The Bible in Spain.

But this volume did not make an appearance 'shortly.' Its author was far too much offended
with the critics, too disheartened it may be to care to offer himself again for their gibes.
The years rolled on, much of the time being spent at Yarmouth, a little of it at Oulton. There
was a visit to Cornwall in 1854, and another to Wales in the same year. The Isle of Man was
selected for a holiday in 1855, and not until 1857 did The Romany Rye appear. The book was
now in two volumes, and we see that the word Romany had dropped an 'm':

     The Romany Rye: A Sequel to 'Lavengro.' By George Borrow,
     author of 'The Bible in Spain,' 'The Gypsies of Spain,' etc.,
     'Fear God, and take your own part.' In Two Volumes. London:
     John Murray, Albemarle Street, 1857.

Dr. Knapp publishes some vigorous correspondence between Mrs. Borrow and her husband's publisher
written prior to the issue of The Romany Rye. 'Mr. Borrow has not the slightest wish to publish
the book,' she says. 'The manuscript was left with you because you wished to see it.'[199]
This was written in 1855, the wife presumably writing at her husband's dictation. In 1857 the
situation was not improved, as Borrow himself writes to Mr. Murray: 'In your last letter you
talk of obliging me by publishing my verse. Now is not that speaking very injudiciously?'[200]
At last, however, in April 1857, The Romany Rye appeared, and we are introduced once more to
many old favourites, to Petulengro, to the Man in Black, and above all to Isopel Berners. The
incidents of Lavengro are supposed to have taken place between the 24th May 1825 and the 18th
July of that year. In The Romany Rye the incidents apparently occur between 19th July and 3rd
August 1825. In the opinion of that most eminent of gypsy experts, Mr. John Sampson,[201] the
whole of the episodes in the five volumes occurred in seventy-two days. Mr. Sampson agrees
with Dr. Knapp in locating Mumper's Dingle in Momber or Monmer Lane, Willenhall, Shropshire.
The dingle has disappeared--it is now occupied by the Monmer Lane Ironworks--but you may still
find Dingle Bridge and Dingle Lane. The book has added to the glamour of gypsydom, and to the
interest in the gypsies which we all derive from Lavengro, but Mr. Sampson makes short work
of Borrow's gypsy learning on its philological side. 'No gypsy,' he says, 'ever uses chal or
engro as a separate word, or talks of the dukkering dook or of penning a dukkerin.' 'Borrow's
genders are perversely incorrect'; and 'Romany'--a word which can never get out of our language,
let philologists say what they will--should have been 'Romani.' '"Haarsträubend" is the fitting
epithet,' says Mr. Sampson, 'which an Oriental scholar, Professor Richard Pischel of Berlin,
finds to describe Borrow's etymologies.' But all this is very unimportant, and the book remains
in the whole of its forty-seven chapters not one whit less a joy to us than does its predecessor
Lavengro, with its visions of gypsies and highwaymen and boxers.

But then there is its 'Appendix.' That appendix of eleven petulant chapters undoubtedly did
Borrow harm in his day and generation. Now his fame is too great, and his genius too firmly
established for these strange dissertations on men and things to offer anything but amusement
or edification. They reveal, for example, the singularly non-literary character of this great
man of letters. Much--too much--has been made of his dislike of Walter Scott and his writings.
As a matter of fact Borrow tells us that he admired Scott both as a prose writer and as a poet.
'Since Scott he had read no modern writer. Scott was greater than Homer,' he told Frances Cobbe.
But he takes occasion to condemn his 'Charlie o'er the water nonsense,' and declares that his
love of and sympathy with certain periods and incidents have made for sympathy with what he
always calls 'Popery.'[202] Well, looking at the matter from an entirely opposite point of
view, Cardinal Newman declared that the writings of Scott had had no inconsiderable influence
in directing his mind towards the Church of Rome.[203]

     During the first quarter of this century a great poet was
     raised up in the North, who, whatever were his defects, has
     contributed by his works, in prose and verse, to prepare men
     for some closer and more practical approximation to Catholic
     truth. The general need of something deeper and more attractive
     than what had offered itself elsewhere may be considered to
     have led to his popularity; and by means of his popularity he
     re-acted on his readers, stimulating their mental thirst,
     feeding their hopes, setting before them visions, which, when
     once seen, are not easily forgotten, and silently
     indoctrinating them with nobler ideas, which might afterwards
     be appealed to as first principles.[204]

And thus we see that Borrow had a certain prescience in this matter. But Borrow, in good truth,
cared little for modern English literature. His heart was entirely with the poets of other
lands--the Scandinavians and the Kelts. In Virgil he apparently took little interest, nor in
the great poetry of Greece, Rome and England, although we find a reference to Theocritus and
Dante in his books. Fortunately for his fame he had read Gil Blas, Don Quixote, and, above
all, Robinson Crusoe, which last book, first read as a boy of six, coloured his whole life.
Defoe and Fielding and Bunyan were the English authors to whom he owed most. Of Byron he has
quaint things to say, and of Wordsworth things that are neither quaint nor wise. We recall
the man in the field in the twenty-second chapter of The Romany Rye who used Wordsworth's poetry
as a soporific. And throughout his life Borrow's position towards his contemporaries in literature
was ever contemptuous. He makes no mention of Carlyle or Ruskin or Matthew Arnold, and they
in their turn, it may be added, make no mention of him or of his works. Thackeray he snubbed
on one of the few occasions they met, and Browning and Tennyson were alike unrevealed to him.
Borrow indeed stands quite apart from the great literature of a period in which he was a striking
and individual figure. Lacking appreciation in this sphere of work, he wrote of 'the contemptible
trade of author,' counting it less creditable than that of a jockey.

But all this is a digression from the progress of our narrative of the advent of The Romany
Rye. The book was published in an edition of 1000 copies in April 1857, and it took thirty
years to dispose of 3750 copies. Not more than 2000 copies of his book were sold in Great Britain
during the twenty-three remaining years of Borrow's life. What wonder that he was embittered
by his failure! The reviews were far from favourable, although Mr. Elwin wrote not unkindly
in an article in the Quarterly Review called 'Roving Life in England.' No critic, however,
was as severe as The Athenæum, which had called Lavengro 'balderdash' and referred to The Romany
Rye as the 'literary dough' of an author 'whose dullest gypsy preparation we have now read.'
In later years, when, alas! it was too late, The Athenæum, through the eloquent pen of Theodore
Watts, made good amends. But William Bodham Donne wrote to Borrow with adequate enthusiasm:

To George Borrow, Esq.

                12 ST. JAMES'S SQUARE, May 24th, 1857.

     MY DEAR SIR,--I received your book some days ago, but would not
     write to you before I was able to read it, at least once, since
     it is needless, I hope, for me to assure you that I am truly
     gratified by the gift.

     Time to read it I could not find for some days after it was
     sent hither, for what with winding up my affairs here, the
     election of my successor, preparations for flitting, etc.,
     etc., I have been incessantly occupied with matters needful to
     be done, but far less agreeable to do than reading The Romany
     Rye. All I have said of Lavengro to yourself personally, or
     to others publicly or privately, I say again of The Romany
     Rye. Everywhere in it the hand of the master is stamped boldly
     and deeply. You join the chisel of Dante with the pencil of
     Defoe.

     I am rejoiced to see so many works announced of yours, for you
     have more that is worth knowing to tell than any one I am
     acquainted with. For your coming progeny's sake I am disposed
     to wish you had worried the literary-craft less. Brand and
     score them never so much, they will not turn and repent, but
     only spit the more froth and venom. I am reckoning of my
     emancipation with an eagerness hardly proper at my years, but I
     cannot help it, so thoroughly do I hate London, and so much do
     I love the country. I have taken a house, or rather a cottage,
     at Walton on Thames, just on the skirts of Weybridge, and there
     I hope to see you before I come into Norfolk, for I am afraid
     my face will not be turned eastward for many weeks if not
     months.

     Remember me kindly to Mrs. Borrow and Miss Clarke, and believe
     me, my dear Sir, very truly and thankfully yours.

                WM. B. DONNE.

And perhaps a letter from the then Town Clerk of Oxford is worth reproducing here:

To George Borrow, Esq.

                TOWN CLERK'S OFFICE, OXFORD, 19th August 1857.

     SIR,--We have, attached to our Corporation, an ancient jocular
     court composed of 13 of the poor old freemen who attend the
     elections and have a king who sits attired in scarlet with a
     crown and sentences interlopers (non-freeman) to be
     cold-burned, i.e. a bucket or so of water introduced to the
     offender's sleeve by means of the city pump; but this
     infliction is of course generally commuted by a small pecuniary
     compensation.

     They call themselves 'Slaveonians' or 'Sclavonians.' The only
     notice we have of them in the city records is by the name of
     'Slovens Hall.' Reading Romany Rye I notice your account of
     the Sclaves and venture to trouble you with this, and to
     enquire whether you think that the Sclaves might be connected
     through the Saxons with the ancient municipal institutions of
     this country. You are no doubt aware that Oxford is one of the
     most ancient Saxon towns, being a royal bailiwick and fortified
     before the Conquest,--Yours truly.

                GEORGE P. HESTER.

In spite of contemporary criticism, The Romany Rye is a great book, or rather it contains the
concluding chapters of a great book. Sequels are usually proclaimed to be inferior to their
predecessors. But The Romany Rye is not a sequel. It is part of Lavengro, and is therefore
Borrow's most imperishable monument.

FOOTNOTES:

[198] Borrow was fond of writing out title-pages for his books, and I have a dozen or so of
these draft title-pages among my Borrow Papers.

[199] Dr. Knapp's Life, vol. ii. p. 167.

[200] Borrow's association with the firm of Murray deserves a chapter to itself, but the material
for writing such a chapter has already been used by Dr. Knapp and Mr. Herbert Jenkins. The
present Mr. John Murray, John Murray IV., has seventy letters from Borrow to his firm in his
possession. The first of the name to publish Borrow's works was John Murray II., who died in
1843. John Murray III., who died in 1892, and his partner and cousin Robert Cooke, were Borrow's
friends. He had differences at times, but he was loyal to them and they were loyal to him as
good authors and good publishers ought to be. With all his irritability Borrow had the sense
to see that there was substantial reason in their declining to issue his translations. That,
although at the end there were long intervals of silence, the publishers and their author remained
friends is shown by letters written to his daughter after Borrow's death, and by the following
little note from Borrow to John Murray which was probably never sent. It is in the feeble,
broken handwriting of what was probably the last year of Borrow's life.

To John Murray, Esq.

                'OULTON (no date).

'MY DEAR FRIEND,--Thank you most sincerely for sending me the last vol. of the Quarterly, a
truly remarkable one it is, full of literature of every description--I should have answered
the receipt of it before had I not been very unwell. Should you come to these parts do me the
favour to look in upon me--it might do me good, and say the same thing from me to my kind and
true friend Robt. Cooke. His last visit to me did me much good, and another might probably
do me the same. What a horrible state the country seems to be in, and no wonder--a monster-minister
whose principal aim seems to be the ruin of his native land, a parliament either incompetent
or indifferent. However, let us hope for the best. Pray send my cordial respects to Mrs. Murray
and kind regards to the rest of your good family.--Ever sincerely yours,

                GEORGE BORROW.'

[201] Mr. Sampson has written an admirable introduction to The Romany Rye in Methuen's 'Little
Library,' but he goes rather far in his suggestion that Borrow instead of writing 'Joseph Sell'
for £20, possibly obtained that sum by imitating 'the methods of Jerry Abershaw, Galloping
Dick,' or some of the 'fraternity of vagabonds' whose lives Borrow had chronicled in his Celebrated
Trials, in other words, that he stole the money.

[202] The Romany Rye, Appendix, ch. vii.

[203] It is interesting to note that all the surviving members of Sir Walter Scott's family
belong to the Roman Catholic Church, as do certain members of the family of Newman's opponent,
Charles Kingsley. Several members of Charles Dickens's family are also Roman Catholics.

[204] Essays Critical and Historical by John Henry Cardinal Newman, vol. i., Longmans. See
also Apologia pro Vita Sua, pp. 96-97.

CHAPTER XXXI.

EDWARD FITZGERALD

Edward FitzGerald once declared that he was about the only friend with whom Borrow had never
quarrelled.[205] There was probably no reason for this exceptional amity other than the 'genius
for friendship' with which FitzGerald has been rightly credited. There were certainly, however,
many points of likeness between the two men which might have kept them at peace. Both had written
copiously and out of all proportion to the public demand for their work. Both revelled in translation.
FitzGerald's eight volumes in a magnificent American edition consists mainly of translations
from various tongues which no man presumably now reads. All the world has read and will long
continue to read his translation or paraphrase of Omar Khayyám's Rubáiyát. 'Old Fitz,' as his
friends called him, lives by that, although his letters are among the best in literature. Borrow
wrote four books that will live, but had publishers been amenable he would have published forty,
and all as unsaleable as the major part of FitzGerald's translations. Both men were Suffolk
squires, and yet delighted more in the company of a class other than their own, FitzGerald
of boatmen, Borrow of gypsies; both were counted eccentrics in their respective villages. Perhaps
alone among the great Victorian authors they lived to be old without receiving in their lives
any popular recognition of their great literary achievements. But FitzGerald had a more cultivated
mind than Borrow. He loved literature and literary men whilst Borrow did not. His criticism
of books is of the best, and his friendships with bookmen are among the most interesting in
literary history. 'A solitary, shy, kind-hearted man,' was the verdict upon him of the frequently
censorious Carlyle. When Anne Thackeray asked her father which of his friends he had loved
best, he answered 'Dear old Fitz, to be sure,' and Tennyson would have said the same. Borrow
had none of these gifts as a letter-writer and no genius for friendship. The charm of his style,
so indisputable in his best work, is absent from his letters; and his friends were alienated
one after another. Borrow's undisciplined intellect and narrow upbringing were a curse to him,
from the point of view of his own personal happiness, although they helped him to achieve exactly
the work for which he was best fitted. Borrow's acquaintance with FitzGerald was commenced
by the latter, who, in July 1853, sent from Boulge Hall, Suffolk, to Oulton Hall, in the same
county, his recently published volume Six Dramas of Calderon. He presents his friend with a
Turkish Dictionary, and announces his coming marriage to Miss Barton, 'Our united ages amount
to 96!--a dangerous experiment on both sides'--as it proved. Borrow had published The Romany
Rye at the beginning of May:

To George Borrow, Esq., Oulton Hall.

                GOLDINGTON HALL, BEDFORD, May 24/57[208]

     MY DEAR SIR,--Your Book was put into my hands a week ago just
     as I was leaving London; so I e'en carried it down here, and
     have been reading it under the best Circumstances:--at such a
     Season--in the Fields as they now are--and in company with a
     Friend I love best in the world--who scarce ever reads a Book,
     but knows better than I do what they are made of from a hint.

     Well, lying in a Paddock of his, I have been travelling along
     with you to Horncastle, etc.,--in a very delightful way for the
     most part; something as I have travelled, and love to travel,
     with Fielding, Cervantes, and Robinson Crusoe--and a smack of
     all these there seems to me, with something beside, in your
     book. But, as will happen in Travel, there were some spots I
     didn't like so well--didn't like at all: and sometimes wished
     to myself that I, a poor 'Man of Taste,' had been at your Elbow
     (who are a Man of much more than Taste) to divert you, or get
     you by some means to pass lightlier over some places. But you
     wouldn't have heeded me, and won't heed me, and must go your
     own way, I think--And in the parts I least like, I am yet
     thankful for honest, daring, and original Thought and Speech
     such as one hardly gets in these mealy-mouthed days. It was
     very kind of you to send me your book.

     My Wife is already established at a House called 'Albert's
     Villa,' or some such name, at Gorlestone--but a short walk from
     you: and I am to find myself there in a few days. So I shall
     perhaps tell you more of my thoughts ere long. Now I shall
     finish this large Sheet with a Tetrastich of one Omar Khayyám
     who was an Epicurean Infidel some 500 years ago:

    [Persian][209]

                and am yours very truly,
                EDWARD FITZGERALD. The first edition
of The Rubáiyát of Omar Khayyám appeared two years later, in 1859.
Edward Byles Cowell was born in Ipswich in 1826, and he was educated at
the Ipswich Grammar School. It was in the library attached to the
Ipswich Library Institution that Cowell commenced the study of Oriental
languages. In 1842 he entered the business of his father and grandfather
as a merchant and maltster. When only twenty years of age he commenced
his friendship with Edward FitzGerald, and their correspondence may be
found in Dr. Aldis Wright's FitzGerald Correspondence. In 1850 he left
his brother to carry on the business and entered himself at Magdalen
Hall, Oxford, where he passed six years. At intervals he read Greek with
FitzGerald and, later, Persian. FitzGerald commenced to learn this last
language, which was to bring him fame, when he was forty-four years of
age. In 1856 Cowell was appointed to a Professorship of English History
at Calcutta, and from there he sent FitzGerald a copy of the manuscript
of Omar Khayyám, afterwards lent by FitzGerald to Borrow. Much earlier
than this--in 1853--FitzGerald had written to Borrow:

     At Ipswich, indeed, is a man whom you would like to know, I
     think, and who would like to know you; one Edward Cowell: a
     great scholar, if I may judge.... Should you go to Ipswich do
     look for him! a great deal more worth looking for (I speak with
     no sham modesty, I am sure) than yours,--E. F. G.[211]

Twenty-six years afterwards--in 1879--we find FitzGerald writing to Dr. Aldis Wright to the
effect that Cowell had been seized with 'a wish to learn Welsh under George Borrow':

     And as he would not venture otherwise, I gave him a Note of
     Introduction, and off he went, and had an hour with the old
     Boy, who was hard of hearing and shut up in a stuffy room, but
     cordial enough; and Cowell was glad to have seen the Man, and
     tell him that it was his Wild Wales which first inspired a
     thirst for this language into the Professor.[212]

This introduction and meeting are described by Professor Cowell in the following letter:[213]

                CAMBRIDGE, December 10, 1892.

     DEAR SIR,--I fear I cannot help you much by my reminiscences
     of Borrow. I never had the slightest interest in the gipsies,
     but I always had a corner in my heart for Spain and Wales, and
     consequently The Bible in Spain and Wild Wales have always
     been favourite books. But though Borrow's works were well known
     to me, I never saw him but once, and what I saw of him then
     made me feel that he was one of those men who put the best part
     of themselves into their books. We get the pure gold there
     without the admixture of alloy which daily life seemed to
     impart.

     I was staying one autumn at Lowestoft some ten years or more
     ago when I asked my dear old friend, Mr. Edward FitzGerald, to
     give me a letter of introduction to Mr. George Borrow. Armed
     with this I started on my pilgrimage and took a chaise for
     Oulton Hall. I remember as we drew near we turned into a kind
     of drift road through the fields where the long sweeping boughs
     of the trees hung so low that I lost my hat more than once as
     we drove along. My driver remarked that the old gentleman would
     not allow any of his trees to be cut. When we reached the hall
     I went in at the gate into the farmyard, but I could see nobody
     about anywhere. I walked up to the front door, but nobody
     answered my knock except some dogs, who began barking from
     their kennels. At last in answer to a very loud knock, the door
     was opened by an old gentleman whom I at once recognised by the
     engraving to be Borrow himself. I gave him my letter and
     introduced myself. He replied in a tone of humorous petulance,
     'What is the good of your bringing me a letter when I haven't
     got my spectacles to read it?' However, he took me into his
     room, where I fancy my knock had roused him from a siesta. We
     soon got into talk. He began by some unkind remarks about one
     or two of our common friends, but I soon turned the subject to
     books, especially Spanish and Welsh books. Here I own I was
     disappointed in his conversation. I talked to him about Ab
     Gwilym, whom he speaks so highly of in Wild Wales, but his
     interest was languid. He did not seem interested when I told
     him that the London Society of Cymmrodorion were publishing in
     their journal the Welsh poems of Iolo Goch, the bard of Owen
     Glendower who fought with our Henry v., two of whose poems
     Borrow had given spirited translations of in Wild Wales. He
     told me he had heaps of translations from Welsh books somewhere
     in his cupboards but he did not know where to lay his hand on
     them. He did not show me one Welsh or Spanish book of any kind.
     You may easily imagine that I was disappointed with my
     interview and I never cared to visit him again. Borrow was a
     man of real genius, and his Bible in Spain and Wild Wales
     are unique books in their way, but with all his knowledge of
     languages he was not a scholar. I should be the last person to
     depreciate his Sleeping Bard, for I owe a great deal to it as
     it helped me to read the Welsh original, but it is full of
     careless mistakes. The very title is wrong; it should not be
     the Visions of the Sleeping Bard but the Visions of the Bard
     Sleep, as the bard or prophet Sleep shows the author in a
     series of dreams--his visions of life, death, and hell, which
     form the three chapters of the book.

     Borrow knew nothing of philology. His strange version of 'Om
     mani padme hûm' (Oh! the gem in the lotus ho!) must have been
     taken from some phonetic representation of the sounds as heard
     by an ignorant traveller in China or Mongolia.

     I have written this long letter lured on by my recollections,
     but after all I can tell you nothing. Surely it is best that
     Borrow should remain a name; we have the best part of him still
     living in his best books.

    'He gave the people of his best;
    His worst he kept, his best he gave.'

     I don't see why we should trouble ourselves about his 'worst.'
     He had his weaker side like all of us, the foolish part of his
     nature as well as the wise; but 'de mortuis nil nisi bonum'
     especially applies in such cases.--I remain, dear sir, yours
     sincerely,

                E. B. COWELL.

