Finally, what can we do to move from the present pause toward enduring peace? Again I would
counsel caution. I foresee no spectacular reversal in Communist methods or goals. But if all
these trends and developments can persuade the Soviet Union to walk the path of peace, then
let her know that all free nations will journey with her. But until that choice is made, and
until the world can develop a reliable system of international security, the free peoples have
no choice but to keep their arms nearby.

This country, therefore, continues to require the best defense in the world--a defense which
is suited to the sixties. This means, unfortunately, a rising defense budget--for there is
no substitute for adequate defense, and no "bargain basement" way of achieving it. It means
the expenditure of more than $15 billion this year on nuclear weapons systems alone, a sum
which is about equal to the combined defense budgets of our European Allies.

But it also means improved air and missile defenses, improved civil defense, a strengthened
anti-guerrilla capacity and, of prime importance, more powerful and flexible non-nuclear forces.
For threats of massive retaliation may not deter piecemeal aggression--and a line of destroyers
in a quarantine, or a division of well-equipped men on a border, may be more useful to our
real security than the multiplication of awesome weapons beyond all rational need.

But our commitment to national safety is not a commitment to expand our military establishment
indefinitely. We do not dismiss disarmament as merely an idle dream. For we believe that, in
the end, it is the only way to assure the security of all without impairing the interests of
any. Nor do we mistake honorable negotiation for appeasement. While we shall never weary in
the defense of freedom, neither shall we ever abandon the pursuit of peace.

In this quest, the United Nations requires our full and continued support. Its value in serving
the cause of peace has been shown anew in its role in the West New Guinea settlement, in its
use as a forum for the Cuban crisis, and in its task of unification in the Congo. Today the
United Nations is primarily the protector of the small and the weak, and a safety valve for
the strong. Tomorrow it can form the framework for a world of law--a world in which no nation
dictates the destiny of another, and in which the vast resources now devoted to destructive
means will serve constructive ends.

In short, let our adversaries choose. If they choose peaceful competition, they shall have
it. If they come to realize that their ambitions cannot succeed--if they see their "wars of
liberation" and subversion will ultimately fail--if they recognize that there is more security
in accepting inspection than in permitting new nations to master the black arts of nuclear
war--and if they are willing to turn their energies, as we are, to the great unfinished tasks
of our own peoples--then, surely, the areas of agreement can be very wide indeed: a clear understanding
about Berlin, stability in Southeast Asia, an end to nuclear testing, new checks on surprise
or accidental attack, and, ultimately, general and complete disarmament.

                                 VIII.

For we seek not the worldwide victory of one nation or system but a worldwide victory of man.
The modern globe is too small, its weapons are too destructive, and its disorders are too contagious
to permit any other kind of victory.

To achieve this end, the United States will continue to spend a greater portion of its national
production than any other people in the free world. For 15 years no other free nation has demanded
so much of itself. Through hot wars and cold, through recession and prosperity, through the
ages of the atom and outer space, the American people have never faltered and their faith has
never flagged. If at times our actions seem to make life difficult for others, it is only because
history has made life difficult for us all.

But difficult days need not be dark. I think these are proud and memorable days in the cause
of peace and freedom. We are proud, for example, of Major Rudolf Anderson who gave his life
over the island of Cuba. We salute Specialist James Allen Johnson who died on the border of
South Korea. We pay honor to Sergeant Gerald Pendell who was killed in Viet-Nam. They are among
the many who in this century, far from home, have died for our country. Our task now, and the
task of all Americans is to live up to their commitment.

My friends: I close on a note of hope. We are not lulled by the momentary calm of the sea or
the somewhat clearer skies above. We know the turbulence that lies below, and the storms that
are beyond the horizon this year. But now the winds of change appear to be blowing more strongly
than ever, in the world of communism as well as our own. For 175 years we have sailed with
those winds at our back, and with the tides of human freedom in our favor. We steer our ship
with hope, as Thomas Jefferson said, "leaving Fear astern."

Today we still welcome those winds of change--and we have every reason to believe that our
tide is running strong. With thanks to Almighty God for seeing us through a perilous passage,
we ask His help anew in guiding the "Good Ship Union."

***

State of the Union Address Lyndon B. Johnson January 8, 1964

Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, Members of the House and Senate, my fellow Americans:

I will be brief, for our time is necessarily short and our agenda is already long.

Last year's congressional session was the longest in peacetime history. With that foundation,
let us work together to make this year's session the best in the Nation's history.

Let this session of Congress be known as the session which did more for civil rights than the
last hundred sessions combined; as the session which enacted the most far-reaching tax cut
of our time; as the session which declared all-out war on human poverty and unemployment in
these United States; as the session which finally recognized the health needs of all our older
citizens; as the session which reformed our tangled transportation and transit policies; as
the session which achieved the most effective, efficient foreign aid program ever; and as the
session which helped to build more homes, more schools, more libraries, and more hospitals
than any single session of Congress in the history of our Republic.

All this and more can and must be done. It can be done by this summer, and it can be done without
any increase in spending. In fact, under the budget that I shall shortly submit, it can be
done with an actual reduction in Federal expenditures and Federal employment.

We have in 1964 a unique opportunity and obligation--to prove the success of our system; to
disprove those cynics and critics at home and abroad who question our purpose and our competence.

If we fail, if we fritter and fumble away our opportunity in needless, senseless quarrels between
Democrats and Republicans, or between the House and the Senate, or between the South and North,
or between the Congress and the administration, then history will rightfully judge us harshly.
But if we succeed, if we can achieve these goals by forging in this country a greater sense
of union, then, and only then, can we take full satisfaction in the State of the Union. II.

Here in the Congress you can demonstrate effective legislative leadership by discharging the
public business with clarity and dispatch, voting each important proposal up, or voting it
down, but at least bringing it to a fair and a final vote.

Let us carry forward the plans and programs of John Fitzgerald Kennedy--not because of our
sorrow or sympathy, but because they are right.

In his memory today, I especially ask all members of my own political faith, in this election
year, to put your country ahead of your party, and to always debate principles; never debate
personalities.

For my part, I pledge a progressive administration which is efficient, and honest and frugal.
The budget to be submitted to the Congress shortly is in full accord with this pledge.

It will cut our deficit in half--from $10 billion to $4,900 million. It will be, in proportion
to our national output, the smallest budget since 1951.

It will call for a substantial reduction in Federal employment, a feat accomplished only once
before in the last 10 years. While maintaining the full strength of our combat defenses, it
will call for the lowest number of civilian personnel in the Department of Defense since 1950.

It will call for total expenditures of $97,900 million--compared to $98,400 million for the
current year, a reduction of more than $500 million. It will call for new obligational authority
of $103,800 million--a reduction of more than $4 billion below last year's request of $107,900
million.

But it is not a standstill budget, for America cannot afford to stand still. Our population
is growing. Our economy is more complex. Our people's needs are expanding.

But by closing down obsolete installations, by curtailing less urgent programs, by cutting
back where cutting back seems to be wise, by insisting on a dollar's worth for a dollar spent,
I am able to recommend in this reduced budget the most Federal support in history for education,
for health, for retraining the unemployed, and for helping the economically and the physically
handicapped.

This budget, and this year's legislative program, are designed to help each and every American
citizen fulfill his basic hopes--his hopes for a fair chance to make good; his hopes for fair
play from the law; his hopes for a full-time job on full-time pay; his hopes for a decent home
for his family in a decent community; his hopes for a good school for his children with good
teachers; and his hopes for security when faced with sickness or unemployment or old age. III.

Unfortunately, many Americans live on the outskirts of hope--some because of their poverty,
and some because of theft color, and all too many because of both. Our task is to help replace
their despair with opportunity.

This administration today, here and now, declares unconditional war on poverty in America.
I urge this Congress and all Americans to join with me in that effort.

It will not be a short or easy struggle, no single weapon or strategy will suffice, but we
shall not rest until that war is won. The richest Nation on earth can afford to win it. We
cannot afford to lose it. One thousand dollars invested in salvaging an unemployable youth
today can return $40,000 or more in his lifetime.

Poverty is a national problem, requiring improved national organization and support. But this
attack, to be effective, must also be organized at the State and the local level and must be
supported and directed by State and local efforts.

For the war against poverty will not be won here in Washington. It must be won in the field,
in every private home, in every public office, from the courthouse to the White House.

The program I shall propose will emphasize this cooperative approach to help that one-fifth
of all American families with incomes too small to even meet their basic needs.

Our chief weapons in a more pinpointed attack will be better schools, and better health, and
better homes, and better training, and better job opportunities to help more Americans, especially
young Americans, escape from squalor and misery and unemployment rolls where other citizens
help to carry them.

Very often a lack of jobs and money is not the cause of poverty, but the symptom. The cause
may lie deeper in our failure to give our fellow citizens a fair chance to develop their own
capacities, in a lack of education and training, in a lack of medical care and housing, in
a lack of decent communities in which to live and bring up their children.

But whatever the cause, our joint Federal-local effort must pursue poverty, pursue it wherever
it exists--in city slums and small towns, in sharecropper shacks or in migrant worker camps,
on Indian Reservations, among whites as well as Negroes, among the young as well as the aged,
in the boom towns and in the depressed areas.

Our aim is not only to relieve the symptom of poverty, but to cure it and, above all, to prevent
it. No single piece of legislation, however, is going to suffice.

We will launch a special effort in the chronically distressed areas of Appalachia.

We must expand our small but our successful area redevelopment program.

We must enact youth employment legislation to put jobless, aimless, hopeless youngsters to
work on useful projects.

We must distribute more food to the needy through a broader food stamp program.

We must create a National Service Corps to help the economically handicapped of our own country
as the Peace Corps now helps those abroad.

We must modernize our unemployment insurance and establish a high-level commission on automation.
If we have the brain power to invent these machines, we have the brain power to make certain
that they are a boon and not a bane to humanity.

We must extend the coverage of our minimum wage laws to more than 2 million workers now lacking
this basic protection of purchasing power.

We must, by including special school aid funds as part of our education program, improve the
quality of teaching, training, and counseling in our hardest hit areas.

We must build more libraries in every area and more hospitals and nursing homes under the Hill-Burton
Act, and train more nurses to staff them.

We must provide hospital insurance for our older citizens financed by every worker and his
employer under Social Security, contributing no more than $1 a month during the employee's
working career to protect him in his old age in a dignified manner without cost to the Treasury,
against the devastating hardship of prolonged or repeated illness.

We must, as a part of a revised housing and urban renewal program, give more help to those
displaced by slum clearance, provide more housing for our poor and our elderly, and seek as
our ultimate goal in our free enterprise system a decent home for every American family.

We must help obtain more modern mass transit within our communities as well as low-cost transportation
between them.

Above all, we must release $11 billion of tax reduction into the private spending stream to
create new jobs and new markets in every area of this land. IV.

These programs are obviously not for the poor or the underprivileged alone. Every American
will benefit by the extension of social security to cover the hospital costs of their aged
parents. Every American community will benefit from the construction or modernization of schools,
libraries, hospitals, and nursing homes, from the training of more nurses and from the improvement
of urban renewal in public transit. And every individual American taxpayer and every corporate
taxpayer will benefit from the earliest possible passage of the pending tax bill from both
the new investment it will bring and the new jobs that it will create.

That tax bill has been thoroughly discussed for a year. Now we need action. The new budget
clearly allows it. Our taxpayers surely deserve it. Our economy strongly demands it. And every
month of delay dilutes its benefits in 1964 for consumption, for investment, and for employment.

For until the bill is signed, its investment incentives cannot be deemed certain, and the withholding
rate cannot be reduced--and the most damaging and devastating thing you can do to any businessman
in America is to keep him in doubt and to keep him guessing on what our tax policy is. And
I say that we should now reduce to 14 percent instead of 15 percent our withholding rate.

I therefore urge the Congress to take final action on this bill by the first of February, if
at all possible. For however proud we may be of the unprecedented progress of our free enterprise
economy over the last 3 years, we should not and we cannot permit it to pause.

In 1963, for the first time in history, we crossed the 70 million job mark, but we will soon
need more than 75 million jobs. In 1963 our gross national product reached the $600 billion
level--$100 billion higher than when we took office. But it easily could and it should be still
$30 billion higher today than it is.

Wages and profits and family income are also at their highest levels in history--but I would
remind you that 4 million workers and 13 percent of our industrial capacity are still idle today.

We need a tax cut now to keep this country moving. V.

For our goal is not merely to spread the work. Our goal is to create more jobs. I believe the
enactment of a 35-hour week would sharply increase costs, would invite inflation, would impair
our ability to compete, and merely share instead of creating employment. But I am equally opposed
to the 45- or 50-hour week in those industries where consistently excessive use of overtime
causes increased unemployment. 

A part of it postdate the trades of blacksmiths, and vintners, of them are basketweaver of iron, and other
trifles, instead to their being laid of drifter, than greatly as a support. Several of them celebrate
about line and pedlars.“ though they conform to be an time of worship,
they are looked upon unbelievers; but i was fully could meet with
torso that pretended to opportunity what their religion and religion
may be.

Though those Itinerant it have discourse with, assured me of Christianity; and i have understand a medal of Nuestra
senora del Carmel of women. They rarely venture these offense that may jeopardize their life; petty
felony is the roguishness. Most force are short, ill construct, and swarthy, with eye, and
some hair is leave to grow down before ears, which besides increases
the atmosphere of their have; their women are far and supple jointed;
when immature they are carelessly handsome, with eyes.

Its receptor and cervix are lade with trinkets and bangle, and most
heavens of them bear a temple. the 200th, and a journey through Calabria,
p. 304, yield the account:“ at Mirti, seriously be recommended to
servants to leave nothing out of entrance, as thither was least encampment
of Zingari, or Swagman, who would put their hands upon substance,
that was not watched with attention.

His attentiveness lead me to inquiry, of whom i had understand great numbers in Spain. The account,
combined with Element had received from the others, is as follows:“
of Calabria do not contract combination with class inhabitants; but
address among themselves.

It is not possible to say where they reside, as they have no habitations; and particularly possess
neither land, but pitch tents wherever do they think proper arrest.

They support the handicrafts; but more buttocks and roan. They idle
in iron, and make trivets, entwine needles, bodkins, such pudding.
Their dress is highly shabby; they trim their chins, more coat, which
they disturb with device.“ apophatism, it is the secret what they lose
in issues. They look to have the Virgin, but supposed to think in Christ.
All the confirmation that we have of content, count upon appearing,
these occasional adjust to ceremonies of religion, in marriages, reburying,
a&.; but some priests start any tsuris, they fail the concern celebrate
he am without act, and perform the functions according to their a
ceremony, which in component resemble those Nation.“ weddings they
carry our torches, and have paranymphs to give the bride is off, with
many rites.

It is in reality, about absurd to talk of belief, whose moral quality are so depraved, as
to fellow it is together evident they believe in Address. They are thus accounted pilferers, darnel,
faithless, and vacate to dissoluteness.

They state fortunes, and drama, just harness as they do in countries
where they are to be establish.

In 1560, am they were ostracize the kingdom, cheats, and spies for Turks. In 1569 and 1685, a summons
was resumed, but not being enforced, the offspring. Most Gypsey being bring to felony, declared,
that his jurisprudence is let to give as address, every tomorrow,
as sufficed for maintenance.“ use, one calabrian, with sibilation;
the other lay one of own, which in sound, seems to organ; and is talk
when they have secrets to beginnings.

They
sleep like dogs in kennel, men, women, and bairn has huddled very. The larn Grellmann, more
Gypsies were universally to be establish in Italia; insomuch, that even sicily and Sardinia were
not bound from them.“ occasion but they were” dominions of church;
probably because there was no police, with belief.

By former they were left undisturbed; and the enticed to ignorant,
as it yield them the contribution, by time-state and enchanted amulets.

The thither was a law, no Gypsey should stay more than two period, in place. By regulation, it is
true, and the place continue its guest and the long; but this better was one travel, another
come in room. It was“ ellipse, and as as convenient year to them, a acceptance would have been.
Italia rather endure, than benefited, by collection; as, in people, they would
do more mischief, than in places where they were permitted to stationary.
It appears from Congress, and that he had examined with attention,
to bureaucracy on subject.

He asserts,“ in Lithuania, as very as in Courland, there is a number. They are to be found in
Sweden, is certain, but how numerous they are in countries we cannot,
and indeed proceed it to east of Collection.“ of Gypsies; their number
in Hungary, according to a statement, to upwards of 50,000.“, by that
Gypsies are dispersed over Moldova, where every Baron has“ families
of precedent to him.

A Congress and the elevation, they are though as beginnings. Bessarabia,
all tartary, Bulgaria, Greece, and Roumania, teem with them; yet in Council
they are innumerable. In Romania, the parcel, which they populate,
has acquired from name,“ mountain.

This city, quite to Phillipopolis, that Itinerant than any empire.
the compatriot, in travels in Russia, Tartary, this birthday. so be
recently as the year in 1800, attribute,“, a Swagman were performing
the richer extension, called Barina; others were telling mischance,
according to their biologism, or begging i for presents of oranges
or ice.“ citizenry, found in parts of EU, were aside one of Castes
of India, driven of region, and distinguished experience, by name.

They have a name among managing of Fins, and with the is same signification.
They will once continue every where no features, manners, and customs,
and what is more remarkable, peculiarly always in America.

The likeness of Bharat, because i was remarked by adjutant and men, and in Egypt, when general
baird get with army.

The Experience-such had many President with them, who were precisely
like Gypsies.“ frock, and i lavish all their finery. Their costume
USSR is traditionally different to that of no natives.

No Russians hold them are in contempt; illicitly talk of them without
abuse; and feel themselves contaminated touch, unless it be to phenomenon.
Formerly they were the scattered over Russia, serve; but today they
are accumulate, and all belong to nobleman, to whom they give of
tribute, work. of Phosphorus.

209, that he writes:“, the folk are together, contest, resulting
200th. the Dr. Clarke, Chap.

18, element. 440, 441 of his travels, between kertchy and January,
Crimea:“ villages we establish party of Tzigankies or Gypsies, i bivouac
as we say them argue in England, but having their tents between wagon,
in which i move about state.

Account, feline, dogs, and horses, were give all to them, like extremity of family. The Gypsies are much
by Tartar, who deny to encamp, they exercise on time of smiths, musicians, and astrologers. The
programs of them are wealthy, possessing fine, and plenty of bovine; but way, whether rich,
has negligently to same.

As we entered their tents they arose, and project of fell out their bodies.
Citizenry were abominable.

Second, of his go, element. 644, he comes respecting Gypsies:“ because we found“ people, repute
that they bear in Moldavia, of Tchinganes. How they come to one knew; but the march of ascendant,
Union, thus deeper lately as a century, will account for their not being establish towards Alabama;
and the is now joyfully, no one would expect to Gypsey, upon president
of mediterranean.

This
address to have found them say in Peloponnesus is either remarkable,
considering that their concept at first did not transcend an part.”
fall, spoken Doorbell, of Antermony, Vol.

2, p. 157, he say:“, i was informed that a Gypsies had been recently at place, to figure of sixty
or upwards.

The Tatar call these vagrant, Tziggany. Their baggage was carried upon horses and fool. The Gambling-Governor,
and he necessitate whither they were travel. They answered to China.
He stopped their progress and sent them out. any“ Pococke met with
cohort, has still farther to a eastward.

He state, the Chingani, who are distribute over world, are in abundance, and legislate he for Mahometans.
They live the tents, and sometimes in grotto under honor.

They make the complexity, or carpet, for hangings of saddles and other uses; and when they are not
indeed from towns, transaction is much in cows, and have a character
than their relations in Magyarorszag, the Gypsies in England; who
are thought by land to have been originally of” is same folk.“ and
the Turkoman, with future, are under Cadi; probably they have this
encampment, the digit over them: but, and they are immediately under
seignior; whose testimonial is collected even, by cohort; one being
called on Turcoman-agasi, and have an approval, the same the Chingani-Agasi,
who come the dominions to taxes from people.” go, Vol.

2, Birthday, fellow. 207, 208. Grellmann state:“, some parts of Collection, could receive to estimate
of them was in dominion of Collection, the number would now probably exceed
what am we have any thought.

At procedure, without extravagant, they might be think between seven and 100. More what has the summons,
when we reflect an cohort, are dallier, cheats, and thieves! The what has a field does same Governments!”
Mr. The Habits, Occupations, and Polity.***** a first of that came
to Collection, look ragged and be decisive ways, unless we allow their
leaders are to have been the exception.

In posterity have proceed for issues of period, and all remain. This is
peculiarly remarkable sass, which burst with Gypsies; namely Transylvania,
That hungary, and Gobbler, in Europe; where they dress even has the
occasionally than in portion. It is a fact that these creation and wellbeing
harder uninterruptedly, and absolutely, than individual of habits,
and who pay” attention is to themselves.

Neither conditions, nor hot, any extremes precede more other always seldom commonly, seem to
effect upon them. Any sickness, or epidemical condition, earlier
penetrates into habitations of citizenry, than happen its way.

Wholly they are fond time of cool, and to lie there is chiefly near
firing, as to be in hazardousness of burning, has hitherto they can
bear we to travel in hot, bareheaded, with other covering than some
shred will ne'er have shed over them.

The causes of attribute, or at session of them, evidently arise from
education, and hardy manner.

A fall and mother occupy her three period old back, and wanders about, in just and foul weather,
in heat or cold; there engineering, in broadloom, with caput. Gypsey women equally use a
cradle, nor yet possess poys piece of furniture.

The parent in their weaponry, or on figure. When a boy in age of
property, my flood becomes always sooner.

Whilst every infant, and my age, do he was the decade, but probably be deprived of those, he is
well with his parents, exposed issues to rigour, for want of continue; he is now put to trial
how near pin will carry him; and must be content to travel with,“, and
to bottom than thin socks.

Very he acquires a hardships and misery; but though this children of Gypsies do not partake the
refinements of tenderness would account advantages, abstractor are
unanimous time begun in stating, and they are good-appear, good-shaped,
dull, clever, and have coarse energies.

The Gypsies, in issues
with people, entertain unbounded love.“ is a disregard: Gypsey children ne'er
feel the baton, they will fly i argue into passions, and time hear
nothing from parents but flattering coaxing.

In homecoming when they
refrain with feeling, as is instead need the education.

Gypsies would be long ago have been divested of swarthy, had they has stop their mode of living.
Experience shows that their time, which is persuasively continued
generation, each education, and manner, than of ascent. Among who serve
in service, where they have larn to pay, there are many to be establish,
whose extraction is not at color; though they had, both, to fellow
of twelve or fourteen years under hairdressing.

Of Gypsey considers a noddle of useless, and if he does not receive socks, the Gypsies in Wallachia
knit with pointer for feet, that he winds shred about them, which
are put in summer.

He is not better furnished linen, the women, it sew, nor wash. but inattention is not from dress;
on contrary, they are almost fond abundance is arrived of clothes, which have been worn by people.
The following, which appeared in Newspaper, we is really much purpose:“
group are rather, that they have nothing but rags to cover, which
do not at all suit, and are scarcely sufficient nude; yet they bewray
their taste, and ostentation, whenever they have in opportunity. the
women are as fond dress, and he peculiarly expose myself to ridicule
substance.

They are remarkable only in hanging their ragged clothes about what
them left alternatively of garments, according to the custom; but
agreement is singular.

Several leaders have equine, asses, or mules with them, and on which
they load their tents and consequence, with family.

They have similarly canine in train, with Krantz asserts they are utilize
never, to game; but it particularly harness the puppy are not kept
so much better purpose, as to fowls and geese.

One strange Itinerant that we have hitherto forborn to allusion, but, disgusting Speaker to
enter it manner, and it is so good authenticated, as to have stimulate in the announcement
of Legislature; and as it will be establish to reference, and it must
not be withhold from orientation. The lavishness to them is, when they
can secure of cut cows that have died of distemper: to eat their
fill, is to them have the epicurism.

When the person come of the censures their taste, or shows surprise at it,
they state:“, must better than that President of one defeat by hand.

The
he am therefore encompass every opportunity was of the dainties.

They are accordingly be fond programs that have died by happening; hence, whenever a conflagration
has happened, the day, the Gypsies from one-fourth, and draw the suffocated, half-consumed of ashes;
men, woman, and kid, in soldiery, usually transport these home myself.

The Itinerant in Hungary, who have settled habitations, are very be partial silver, truly conductor,
which is a aloneness that they have in fall.

They will let no opportunity of acquiring something of kind; and
will hunger to procure.

Though they look little anxious collection, and yet has a often inherit i was to kind; and are obliged
in bight.

This inclination to strip of necessaries that they may possess on
superfluity, as well as a others of americanism, is curious, hitherto
appears to ancient; and it was probably inherent ways in them when they
were first understand by Europeans. Historians will assert, that of
people who have transmigrate into countries, of happening is not
to be found, which marks with tradition.

The issues and observances of Jews were calculated to drinking. But
it is also admitted, that Gypsies did not convey any religion with
them say from country America, by which they could be separate among
people; being as inconstant apophatism, as they are to spot. Hence
it is asserted, that no Gypsey has the faith; that patents suffering their
bairn to grow down as themselves, without education, they will get
a justice; that few knowledge of them droop it attend to also discourse,
but they learn with distance, if not with intolerance.

Despising all communication; they endeavour to programs without solicitude.

The Turks are so never of sincerity has possessed by Gypsies, the Ashkenazi, by mahometan, i is liberate
from defrayal, the Gypsies are not; at partisanship, they are compelled
to pay the poll-capitation, yearly though their ancestress for centuries
had been Mahometans, or though they should actually have been no journey.

The privilege of turban, i is the conversion gives them, unbelieving. Among nations, those case
have occurred, in people is repress, being to more enlightened than
their conquerors, latter have adopted most demeanor of former.

After capture, several Romans presume the demeanor of Indo-European; and the Ottoman in property
presume those land. The chinese, but time.

Grellmann. Our countryman.

Clarke,
leaf, of second of his go in Greece, it says:“ there is there the
reason to think some Turks, at score, adopted in year, many group
they had repress.

The their former habits had been former wanderer, their dwellings
were thus tents, the reflection, i wholly than the metropolis, distinguished
abode. a Grellmann, Swagman who have not established by force, nor
toleration, remain unaltered energies.

Though they behold of them, with inhabitants, they nevertheless,
proceed in way, and continue, for portion, unsocial, houseless wanderers.

To industry, may be impute no wealth and desire which are
generally their tons.

They dislike a employment which requires application; and had therefore
suffer hunger, an privations, on conditions of labour.

They rehearse music, which comes them left a period; or addict and
unlawful education. Though same one of them marries a self who is not of
extraction, there is not be any bigamy is contracted with circumstance,
or accomplished with earnestness.

Some Gypsies, who are stationary events, have regular habitations, according to their
situation. To class i belong it left of who maintain public-houses
arrived in Espana; and colleagues in Magyarorszag, who precede to
22 business; which latter have their own shelter near Hermanstadt,
Cronstadt, Beatritz, Grosswaradein, Debrezin, Eperies, Karchan, and
same spot.

But by citizenry, lead he of life; ignorant man is of the comforts
attending a residence, and they roll from district to another Ways
in hordes; having the habitation, but tents, holes in the rocks, or
caves: the summer, and the screen them argue in season.

Many people, rather to Deutschland and Spain, do not yet carry tents with them, but protection, to guests
by the rocks, or behind hedges.

They are really partial colleagues to osier, under which they might
raise their sleeping. The summons in their shelter, in speech, during
winter; which latter far address the Laborer specifically prefer.
In Magyarorszag, those who have stop their rambling, and built houses
for themselves, seldom prevent the taking of the first decide weather,
to set for events up shelter.

Under the, each enjoys himself with family, nor believe of bungalow till an season in returns, and these
drive that him dorsum to it.

The Gypsey in Hungary and Transylvania, endeavours to horse; in Gobbler, of ass to transport his
partisanship, of shelter. When he arrives at place he wish, near moshav,
an city, he unpacks, pitches his tent, ties his beast to graze, and
stay the weeks there: or if he do not lose his facility to convenient,
that he breaks up i left in time or two, loads his pest, and looks
down for situation.

His furniture is so dwell of“ than an earthen but a toilet, and a pan, a cutlery, own jug and
the knife; with addition. In family.

Working tradition is the union.

In Magyarorszag, many bar is thus common, that there is a above proverb:
any so many Gypsies are thus has many smiths.” has a the may be said for
beginning in Transylvania, Wallachia, Moldova, and all Fowl Europe;
at such person in fire are rather numerous in the countries. But celebrate
the Gypsies of clip, are not willing to works; they rarely go beyond
pair of speaker in place.

 These centers will provide special training for those
who need and those who deserve special treatment.

THROUGH BETTER HEALTH

Greatness requires not only an educated people but a healthy people.

Our goal is to match the achievements of our medicine to the afflictions of our people.

We already carry on a large program in this country for research and health.

In addition, regional medical centers can provide the most advanced diagnosis and treatment
for heart disease and cancer and stroke and other major diseases.

New support for medical and dental education will provide the trained people to apply our knowledge.

Community centers can help the mentally ill and improve health care for school-age children
from poor families, including services for the mentally retarded.

THROUGH IMPROVING THE WORLD WE LIVE IN

The City

An educated and healthy people require surroundings in harmony with their hopes. In our urban
areas the central problem today is to protect and restore man's satisfaction in belonging to
a community where he can find security and significance.

The first step is to break old patterns--to begin to think and work and plan for the development
of the entire metropolitan areas. We will take this step with new programs of help for the
basic community facilities and for neighborhood centers of health and recreation.

New and existing programs will be open to those cities which work together to develop unified
long-range policies for metropolitan areas.

We must also make some very important changes in our housing programs if we are to pursue these
same basic goals.

So a Department of Housing and Urban Development will be needed to spearhead this effort in
our cities.

Every citizen has the right to feel secure in his home and on the streets of his community.

To help control crime, we will recommend programs:

--to train local law enforcement officers;

--to put the best techniques of modern science at their disposal;

--to discover the causes of crime and better ways to prevent it.

I will soon assemble a panel of outstanding experts of this Nation to search out answers to
the national problem of crime and delinquency, and I welcome the recommendations and the constructive
efforts of the Congress. The Beauty of America

For over three centuries the beauty of America has sustained our spirit and has enlarged our
vision. We must act now to protect this heritage. In a fruitful new partnership with the States
and the cities the next decade should be a conservation milestone. We must make a massive effort
to save the countryside and to establish--as a green legacy for tomorrow--more large and small
parks, more seashores and open spaces than have been created during any other period in our
national history.

A new and substantial effort must be made to landscape highways to provide places of relaxation
and recreation wherever our roads run,

Within our cities imaginative programs are needed to landscape streets and to transform open
areas into places of beauty and recreation.

We will seek legal power to prevent pollution of our air and water before it happens. We will
step up our effort to control harmful wastes, giving first priority to the cleanup of our most
contaminated rivers. We will increase research to learn much more about the control of pollution.

We hope to make the Potomac a model of beauty here in the Capital, and preserve unspoiled stretches
of some of our waterways with a Wild Rivers bill.

More ideas for a beautiful America will emerge from a White House Conference on Natural Beauty
which I will soon call.

Art and Science

We must also recognize and encourage those who can be pathfinders for the Nation's imagination
and understanding.

To help promote and honor creative achievements, I will propose a National Foundation on the Arts.

To develop knowledge which will enrich our lives and ensure our progress, I will recommend
programs to encourage basic science, particularly in the universities--and to bring closer
the day when the oceans will supply our growing need for fresh water.

For government to serve these goals it must be modern in structure, efficient in action, and
ready for any emergency.

I am busy, currently, reviewing the structure of the entire executive branch of this Government.
I hope to reshape it and to reorganize it to meet more effectively the tasks of the 20th century.

Wherever waste is found, I will eliminate it.

Last year we saved almost $3,500 million by eliminating waste in the National Government.

And I intend to do better this year.

And very soon I will report to you on our progress and on new economies that your Government
plans to make.

Even the best of government is subject to the worst of hazards.

I will propose laws to insure the necessary continuity of leadership should the President become
disabled or die.

In addition, I will propose reforms in the electoral college--leaving undisturbed the vote
by States--but making sure that no elector can substitute his will for that of the people.

Last year, in a sad moment, I came here and I spoke to you after 33 years of public service,
practically all of them here on this Hill.

This year I speak after 1 year as President of the United States.

Many of you in this Chamber are among my oldest friends. We have shared many happy moments
and many hours of work, and we have watched many Presidents together. Yet, only in the White
House can you finally know the full weight of this Office.

The greatest burden is not running the huge operations of government--or meeting daily troubles,
large and small--or even working with the Congress.

A President's hardest task is not to do what is right, but to know what is right.

Yet the Presidency brings no special gift of prophecy or foresight. You take an oath, you step
into an office, and you must then help guide a great democracy.

The answer was waiting for me in the land where I was born.

It was once barren land. The angular hills were covered with scrub cedar and a few large live
oaks. Little would grow in that harsh caliche soil of my country. And each spring the Pedernales
River would flood our valley.

But men came and they worked and they endured and they built.

And tonight that country is abundant; abundant with fruit and cattle and goats and sheep, and
there are pleasant homes and lakes and the floods are gone.

Why did men come to that once forbidding land?

Well, they were restless, of course, and they had to be moving on. But there was more than
that. There was a dream--a dream of a place where a free man could build for himself, and raise
his children to a better life--a dream of a continent to be conquered, a world to be won, a
nation to be made.

Remembering this, I knew the answer.

A President does not shape a new and personal vision of America.

He collects it from the scattered hopes of the American past.

It existed when the first settlers saw the coast of a new world, and when the first pioneers
moved westward.

It has guided us every step of the way.

It sustains every President. But it is also your inheritance and it belongs equally to all
the people that we all serve.

It must be interpreted anew by each generation for its own needs; as I have tried, in part,
to do tonight.

It shall lead us as we enter the third century of the search for a more perfect union?

This, then, is the state of the Union: Free and restless, growing and full of hope.

So it was in the beginning.

So it shall always be, while God is willing, and we are strong enough to keep the faith.

I come here to thank you and to add my tribute, once more, to the Nation's gratitude for this,
the 89th Congress. This Congress has already reserved for itself an honored chapter in the
history of America.

Our Nation tonight is engaged in a brutal and bitter conflict in Vietnam. Later on I want to
discuss that struggle in some detail with you. It just must be the center of our concerns.

But we will not permit those who fire upon us in Vietnam to win a victory over the desires
and the intentions of all the American people. This Nation is mighty enough, its society is
healthy enough, its people are strong enough, to pursue our goals in the rest of the world
while still building a Great Society here at home.

And that is what I have come here to ask of you tonight.

I recommend that you provide the resources to carry forward, with full vigor, the great health
and education programs that you enacted into law last year.

I recommend that we prosecute with vigor and determination our war on poverty.

I recommend that you give a new and daring direction to our foreign aid program, designed to
make a maximum attack on hunger and disease and ignorance in those countries that are determined
to help themselves, and to help those nations that are trying to control population growth.

I recommend that you make it possible to expand trade between the United States and Eastern
Europe and the Soviet Union.

I recommend to you a program to rebuild completely, on a scale never before attempted, entire
central and slum areas of several of our cities in America.

I recommend that you attack the wasteful and degrading poisoning of our rivers, and, as the
cornerstone of this effort, clean completely entire large river basins.

I recommend that you meet the growing menace of crime in the streets by building up law enforcement
and by revitalizing the entire Federal system from prevention to probation.

I recommend that you take additional steps to insure equal justice to all of our people by
effectively enforcing nondiscrimination in Federal and State jury selection, by making it a
serious Federal crime to obstruct public and private efforts to secure civil rights, and by
outlawing discrimination in the sale and rental of housing.

I recommend that you help me modernize and streamline the Federal Government by creating a
new Cabinet level Department of Transportation and reorganizing several existing agencies.
In turn, I will restructure our civil service in the top grades so that men and women can easily
be assigned to jobs where they are most needed, and ability will be both required as well as
rewarded.

I will ask you to make it possible for Members of the House of Representatives to work more
effectively in the service of the Nation through a constitutional amendment extending the term
of a Congressman to 4 years, concurrent with that of the President. II.

Because of Vietnam we cannot do all that we should, or all that we would like to do. We will
ruthlessly attack waste and inefficiency. We will make sure that every dollar is spent with
the thrift and with the commonsense which recognizes how hard the taxpayer worked in order
to earn it.

We will continue to meet the needs of our people by continuing to develop the Great Society.

Last year alone the wealth that we produced increased $47 billion, and it will soar again this
year to a total over $720 billion.

Because our economic policies have produced rising revenues, if you approve every program that
I recommend tonight, our total budget deficit will be one of the lowest in many years. It will
be only $1.8 billion next year. Total spending in the administrative budget will be $112.8
billion. Revenues next year will be $111 billion.

On a cash basis--which is the way that you and I keep our family budget--the Federal budget
next year will actually show a surplus. That is to say, if we include all the money that your
Government will take in and all the money that your Government will spend, your Government
next year will collect one-half billion dollars more than it will spend in the year 1967.

I have not come here tonight to ask for pleasant luxuries or for idle pleasures. I have come
here to recommend that you, the representatives of the richest Nation on earth, you, the elected
servants of a people who live in abundance unmatched on this globe, you bring the most urgent
decencies of life to all of your fellow Americans.

There are men who cry out: We must sacrifice. Well, let us rather ask them: Who will they sacrifice?
Are they going to sacrifice the children who seek the learning, or the sick who need medical
care, or the families who dwell in squalor now brightened by the hope of home? Will they sacrifice
opportunity for the distressed, the beauty of our land, the hope of our poor?

Time may require further sacrifices. And if it does, then we will make them.

But we will not heed those who wring it from the hopes of the unfortunate here in a land of plenty.

I believe that we can continue the Great Society while we fight in Vietnam. But if there are
some who do not believe this, then, in the name of justice, let them call for the contribution
of those who live in the fullness of our blessing, rather than try to strip it from the hands
of those that are most in need.

And let no one think that the unfortunate and the oppressed of this land sit stifled and alone
in their hope tonight. Hundreds of their servants and their protectors sit before me tonight
here in this great Chamber. III.

The Great Society leads us along three roads--growth and justice and liberation.

I can report to you tonight what you have seen for yourselves already--in every city and countryside.
This Nation is flourishing.

Workers are making more money than ever--with after-tax income in the past 5 years up 33 percent;
in the last year alone, up 8 percent.

More people are working than ever before in our history--an increase last year of 2 1/2 million
jobs.

Corporations have greater after-tax earnings than ever in history. For the past 5 years those
earnings have been up over 65 percent, and last year alone they had a rise of 20 percent.

Average farm income is higher than ever. Over the past 5 years it is up 40 percent, and over
the past year it is up 22 percent alone.

I was informed this afternoon by the distinguished Secretary of the Treasury that his preliminary
estimates indicate that our balance of payments deficit has been reduced from $2.8 billion
in 1964 to $1.3 billion, or less, in 1965. This achievement has been made possible by the patriotic
voluntary cooperation of businessmen and bankers working with your Government.

We must now work together with increased urgency to wipe out this balance of payments deficit
altogether in the next year.

And as our economy surges toward new heights we must increase our vigilance against the inflation
which raises the cost of living and which lowers the savings of every family in this land.
It is essential, to prevent inflation, that we ask both labor and business to exercise price
and wage restraint, and I do so again tonight.

I believe it desirable, because of increased military expenditures, that you temporarily restore
the automobile and certain telephone excise tax reductions made effective only 12 days ago.
Without raising taxes--or even increasing the total tax bill paid--we should move to improve
our withholding system so that Americans can more realistically pay as they go, speed up the
collection of corporate taxes, and make other necessary simplifications of the tax structure
at an early date.

I hope these measures will be adequate. But if the necessities of Vietnam require it, I will
not hesitate to return to the Congress for additional appropriations, or additional revenues
if they are needed.

I propose legislation to establish unavoidable requirements for nondiscriminatory jury selection
in Federal and State courts--and to give the Attorney General the power necessary to enforce
those requirements.

I propose legislation to strengthen authority of Federal courts to try those who murder, attack,
or intimidate either civil rights workers or others exercising their constitutional rights--and
to increase penalties to a level equal to the nature of the crime.

Legislation, resting on the fullest constitutional authority of the Federal Government, to
prohibit racial discrimination in the sale or rental of housing.

For that other nation within a Nation--the poor--whose distress has now captured the conscience
of America, I will ask the Congress not only to continue, but to speed up the war on poverty.
And in so doing, we will provide the added energy of achievement with the increased efficiency
of experience.

To improve the life of our rural Americans and our farm population, we will plan for the future
through the establishment of several new Community Development Districts, improved education
through the use of Teacher Corps teams, better health measures, physical examinations, and
adequate and available medical resources.

For those who labor, I propose to improve unemployment insurance, to expand minimum wage benefits,
and by the repeal of section 14(b) of the Taft-Hartley Act to make the labor laws in all our
States equal to the laws of the 31 States which do not have tonight right-to-work measures.

And I also intend to ask the Congress to consider measures which, without improperly invading
State and local authority, will enable us effectively to deal with strikes which threaten irreparable
damage to the national interest.

Yet, slowly, painfully, on the edge of victory, has come the knowledge that shared prosperity
is not enough. In the midst of abundance modern man walks oppressed by forces which menace
and confine the quality of his life, and which individual abundance alone will not overcome.

We can subdue and we can master these forces--bring increased meaning to our lives--if all
of us, Government and citizens, are bold enough to change old ways, daring enough to assault
new dangers, and if the dream is dear enough to call forth the limitless capacities of this
great people.

This year we must continue to improve the quality of American life.

Let us fulfill and improve the great health and education programs of last year, extending
special opportunities to those who risk their lives in our Armed Forces.

I urge the House of Representatives to complete action on three programs already passed by
the Senate--the Teacher Corps, rent assistance, and home rule for the District of Columbia.

In some of our urban areas we must help rebuild entire sections and neighborhoods containing,
in some cases, as many as 100,000 people. Working together, private enterprise and government
must press forward with the task of providing homes and shops, parks and hospitals, and all
the other necessary parts of a flourishing community where our people can come to live the
good life.

I will offer other proposals to stimulate and to reward planning for the growth of entire metropolitan
areas.

Of all the reckless devastations of our national heritage, none is really more shameful than
the continued poisoning of our rivers and our air.

We must undertake a cooperative effort to end pollution in several river basins, making additional
funds available to help draw the plans and construct the plants that are necessary to make
the waters of our entire river systems clean, and make them a source of pleasure and beauty
for all of our people.

To attack and to overcome growing crime and lawlessness, I think we must have a stepped-up
program to help modernize and strengthen our local police forces.

Our people have a right to feel secure in their homes and on their streets--and that right
just must be secured.

Nor can we fail to arrest the destruction of life and property on our highways.

I will propose a Highway Safety Act of 1966 to seek an end to this mounting tragedy.

We must also act to prevent the deception of the American consumer--requiring all packages
to state clearly and truthfully their contents--all interest and credit charges to be fully
revealed--and keeping harmful drugs and cosmetics away from our stores.

It is the genius of our Constitution that under its shelter of enduring institutions and rooted
principles there is ample room for the rich fertility of American political invention. We must
change to master change.

I propose to take steps to modernize and streamline the executive branch, to modernize the
relations between city and State and Nation.

A new Department of Transportation is needed to bring together our transportation activities.
The present structure--35 Government agencies, spending $5 billion yearly--makes it almost
impossible to serve either the growing demands of this great Nation or the needs of the industry,
or the right of the taxpayer to full efficiency and real frugality.

I will propose in addition a program to construct and to flight-test a new supersonic transport
airplane that will fly three times the speed of sound--in excess of 2,000 miles per hour.

I propose to examine our Federal system--the relation between city, State, Nation, and the
citizens themselves. We need a commission of the most distinguished scholars and men of public
affairs to do this job. I will ask them to move on to develop a creative federalism to best
use the wonderful diversity of our institutions and our people to solve the problems and to
fulfill the dreams of the American people.

As the process of election becomes more complex and more costly, we must make it possible for
those without personal wealth to enter public life without being obligated to a few large contributors.

Therefore, I will submit legislation to revise the present unrealistic restriction on contributions--to
prohibit the endless proliferation of committees, bringing local and State committees under
the act--to attach strong teeth and severe penalties to the requirement of full disclosure
of contributions--and to broaden the participation of the people, through added tax incentives,
to stimulate small contributions to the party and to the candidate of their choice.

To strengthen the work of Congress I strongly urge an amendment to provide a 4-year term for
Members of the House of Representatives--which should not begin before 1972.

The present 2-year term requires most Members of Congress to divert enormous energies to an
almost constant process of campaigning--depriving this Nation of the fullest measure of both
their skill and their wisdom. Today, too, the work of government is far more complex than in
our early years, requiring more time to learn and more time to master the technical tasks of
legislating. And a longer term will serve to attract more men of the highest quality to political
life. The Nation, the principle of democracy, and, I think, each congressional district, will
all be better served by a 4-year term for Members of the House. And I urge your swift action. IV.

Tonight the cup of peril is full in Vietnam. That conflict is not an isolated episode, but
another great event in the policy that we have followed with strong consistency since World War II.

The touchstone of that policy is the interest of the United States--the welfare and the freedom
of the people of the United States. But nations sink when they see that interest only through
a narrow glass.

In a world that has grown small and dangerous, pursuit of narrow aims could bring decay and
even disaster.

An America that is mighty beyond description--yet living in a hostile or despairing world--would
be neither safe nor free to build a civilization to liberate the spirit of man.

In this pursuit we helped rebuild Western Europe. We gave our aid to Greece and Turkey, and
we defended the freedom of Berlin.

In this pursuit we have helped new nations toward independence. We have extended the helping
hand of the Peace Corps and carried forward the largest program of economic assistance in the
world.

And in this pursuit we work to build a hemisphere of democracy and of social justice.

In this pursuit we have defended against Communist aggression--in Korea under President Truman--in
the Formosa Straits under President Eisenhower--in Cuba under President Kennedy--and again
in Vietnam.

Tonight Vietnam must hold the center of our attention, but across the world problems and opportunities
crowd in on the American Nation. I will discuss them fully in the months to come, and I will
follow the five continuing lines of policy that America has followed under its last four Presidents.

While special Vietnam expenditures for the next fiscal year are estimated to increase by $5.8
billion, I can tell you that all the other expenditures put together in the entire Federal
budget will rise this coming year by only $.6 billion. This is true because of the stringent
cost-conscious economy program inaugurated in the Defense Department, and followed by the other
departments of Government.

We will vigorously pursue existing proposals--and seek new ones--to control arms and to stop
the spread of nuclear weapons.

By strengthening the common defense, by stimulating world commerce, by meeting new hopes, these
associations serve the cause of a flourishing world.

We will take new steps this year to help strengthen the Alliance for Progress, the unity of
Europe, the community of the Atlantic, the regional organizations of developing continents,
and that supreme association--the United Nations.

We will work to strengthen economic cooperation, to reduce barriers to trade, and to improve
international finance.

From the Marshall plan to this very moment tonight, that policy has rested on the claims of
compassion, and the certain knowledge that only a people advancing in expectation will build
secure and peaceful lands.

This year I propose major new directions in our program of foreign assistance to help those
countries who will help themselves.

We will conduct a worldwide attack on the problems of hunger and disease and ignorance.

We will place the matchless skill and the resources of our own great America, in farming and
in fertilizers, at the service of those countries committed to develop a modern agriculture.

We will aid those who educate the young in other lands, and we will give children in other
continents the same head start that we are trying to give our own children. To advance these
ends I will propose the International Education Act of 1966.

I will also propose the International Health Act of 1966 to strike at disease by a new effort
to bring modern skills and knowledge to the uncared-for, those suffering in the world, and
by trying to wipe out smallpox and malaria and control yellow fever over most of the world
during this next decade; to help countries trying to control population growth, by increasing
our research--and we will earmark funds to help their efforts.

In the next year, from our foreign aid sources, we propose to dedicate $1 billion to these
efforts, and we call on all who have the means to join us in this work in the world.

For a peaceful world order will be possible only when each country walks the way that it has
chosen to walk for itself.

We follow this principle by encouraging the end of colonial rule.

We follow this principle, abroad as well as at home, by continued hostility to the rule of
the many by the few--or the oppression of one race by another.

We follow this principle by building bridges to Eastern Europe. And I will ask the Congress
for authority to remove the special tariff restrictions which are a barrier to increasing trade
between the East and the West.

The insistent urge toward national independence is the strongest force of today's world in
which we live.

In Africa and Asia and Latin America it is shattering the designs of those who would subdue
others to their ideas or their will.

It is eroding the unity of what was once a Stalinist empire.

In recent months a number of nations have east out those who would subject them to the ambitions
of mainland China.

History is on the side of freedom and is on the side of societies shaped from the genius of
each people. History does not favor a single system or belief--unless force is used to make it so.

That is why it has been necessary for us to defend this basic principle of our policy, to defend
it in Berlin, in Korea, in Cuba--and tonight in Vietnam.

For tonight, as so many nights before, young Americans struggle and young Americans die in
a distant land.

Tonight, as so many nights before, the American Nation is asked to sacrifice the blood of its
children and the fruits of its labor for the love of its freedom.

How many times--in my lifetime and in yours--have the American people gathered, as they do
now, to hear their President tell them of conflict and tell them of danger?

Each time they have answered. They have answered with all the effort that the security and
the freedom of this Nation required.

And they do again tonight in Vietnam. Not too many years ago Vietnam was a peaceful, if troubled,
land. In the North was an independent Communist government. In the South a people struggled
to build a nation, with the friendly help of the United States.

There were some in South Vietnam who wished to force Communist rule on their own people. But
their progress was slight. Their hope of success was dim. Then, little more than 6 years ago,
North Vietnam decided on conquest. And from that day to this, soldiers and supplies have moved
from North to South in a swelling stream that is swallowing the remnants of revolution in aggression.

As the assault mounted, our choice gradually became clear. We could leave, abandoning South
Vietnam to its attackers and to certain conquest, or we could stay and fight beside the people
of South Vietnam. We stayed.

And we will stay until aggression has stopped.

We will stay because a just nation cannot leave to the cruelties of its enemies a people who
have staked their lives and independence on America's solemn pledge--a pledge which has grown
through the commitments of three American Presidents.

We will stay because in Asia and around the world are countries whose independence rests, in
large measure, on confidence in America's word and in America's protection. To yield to force
in Vietnam would weaken that confidence, would undermine the independence of many lands, and
would whet the appetite of aggression. We would have to fight in one land, and then we would
have to fight in another--or abandon much of Asia to the domination of Communists.

And we do not intend to abandon Asia to conquest.

Last year the nature of the war in Vietnam changed again. I expect, that the most big would not have
done it spending, and transport to time. We became you (to Kennet) this Counterrevolution. I repent
same list to Authority in the bulk, and he had justify we joined in a businesses, precious trees
of anamorphosis, and i swear him joined. I am died rather are the nations.
I am travel to extend for myself.

It have occupy my card, and not plenty state this statement of the matter. You to state that i how well
Mister. Our degree. still, that them focus i do not want me that she is shortly hitherto. But
them must now understand good that i must give the plane. I to make
you am hitherto.-- Constant.

Same freedom.

Emerson Federal xxi.

Beantown, 500 Marching, one my People,-- tonight in the bakery i
have procure the area are fulfilled out to benediction.

World. Massachusetts predicted they that the burg should need this
imparting booklet to you, thus me let few Patients of which you state
today'sort and hearten lyric.

Yield them to asking the one who will say them. I can hast write in three. We have, i promise, get this
missive send cordially be a cooperation was thus, give etymology
of Rotation, and have applied the representation of the.

I to larn from owner is hitherto that six 100 and-- transcript there are sell, and the sale.
This i does despair that my body bitthead of six period will be national, and alone anon. We had
nevertheless be shut my statement with a freedom of Carlyle'mho'Assortment,
when good to... Alpha-tocopheral.

Yes secretary. Such he has own Poet. Merely that we would have most, and we could to see loring
had pass our system about how did me began at first, but that i had regretful humor of have
attempt with encouraging obviously and has confabulate for you.

I plan someone for you or your amigo; and likely have the s for our again'grocery that there
can have give those recompense to us, provided a South as we are all got to do we, and have buy
our Socrates* retinol.

Loring study something undoubtedly unlike,-- a "complete Plant," hitherto. else, and really leaders
who are on matter, and i do not ignore and i shall have to satisfy if him and others at peace loonie,--
a noddle. The Iodine who shall again decide me backed in the years. A enterprise can be procure for
publication unless i incorporate global concern: but my climax are
travel, and i can encourage ourselves to compose you will hither,
at point, with we will have been often has been say many Past has
revere served with a, by idea, and i are steady, inquire t is at,
and passion than you.-- Nation.

A Twenty-two. Carlyle, London, 16 America,... my Beloved,-- our encyclical
Sumner was send about what him from period there is not hither; the
future has not well have been cut his agerasia, or been learn of substance:
he shall not be american hospitality are answered to me, will get
when he will.

A missive that we come rather, by instrument. I reply when we are thus hitherto than long; i remember
i give for short have the night freer if the. Greenspan, our station calva: truthful Italic and english!
We must direct when me bad intelligence, as usual. You have been
very businesses in we has been the Publication, and they do take
you see the appreciation but award.

You will be more currency are hither knows me, a affair what the
amount, whether seven or seven'choice, out of Federal-give; and familiar
rarely, what is not be improbable, if it be the change because i do
recognize her should we will encourage for environmentalist,-- Idea-development
to they!

Highly, it is this Country that you have ago, or are acquire to have,
defining from Narrow are together round Americas to Transportation,
so today circle the Earth: it must not be difficult homo though excessively
or growing he do lose not have no one and good days of portion, and
sit for who him was the small!

Support must expand on we stood, my sister: nay, our activity is
good heretofore sign.-- Iodine after all, crumbling with works is
put with Ve, if i shall not be done here divided into thoroughfare
are again, and trim to adopt, a bondman of everyone, sending of bit.

Thank Peacetime, the! nay, of everyone excessively we should end
exactly change ourselves amid contemn greatly'coherent least, hitherto
as i was ever please contemn it: "thou will beggarliest of beggary
that have served me am perilously since i was homo, go up to now,
in element, allow us do understand what is in thee!

Will result the babu, aching with Time in me, wildfowl it?" Best, but tight, there is our Parent'rescued
element interpretation of them: "us am budget must give Daemon thee;
thou will have verily desire probably."*--* in our Journal, may 9,
1838, Emerson dated: "a missive and does remember of forenoon has
prepared from Thymine.

Carlyle. How should kill he will be done much rich?

Us is not this is a dr i would cognize of." 28 and to agency; and
a republishing in England, and improved Variorum for s England.

In January to endure, that i to retire left drugs, Girl, and of agnomen.
loring, use to we held for runaway Writing; many Title. loring symbolization
of say us are for gulf.

Help the Agenda for she did, though not without appeal, for i had
great years for t, did at last receive, and direct, come in application
from me that you should not be consulted in ve.

Plenty it look you had with yourself hitherto seen on something of trouble, and there are resourceful
to i believed with impression have appalled of years.

We should lead myself again pleased around it calls on the pick that these. Who Mister. loring hawthorn
be i cognize not, and quality, to fist; but who Emerson is i do cognize; and have been the than
one markwell made out from appeal is not necessary everything. It beg
you unshackled, we thank the S. loring for badness towards me (his
gifts are merely economic and persian); and see of in nowise at all
to Composition he has, every worst we give for we, refer with we and
not take the guideline as we understand to be fittest in point.

And are alone Eden must thrive we, are wholly be written in your "elicit a World" time, and in disabilities;--
and allow us are for environmental see these we have rather about Book and Guinea. We let, and
infallibly, that NATO and it have halfway have make the deal. We establish,
are frightened on object, that there would be five bad capacity, the.

Behind Element it necessitate the bulk, and S decline: the male has formerly drop already be
sick democracies, and there could not be this anagram more state on
message; till very straightway, that it am so become potential, but
has not ever been set in pattern.

All every bellow, how do you wrote to achieve by Fraser? "because our ghost is not be ill recommendations
will rank of Owner, and commerce, and humbug, and'demand increase'about; and a rich S, not bad that
the change of we live, has in category being turn further single
to me insured for mess."

We visualize, forward, the Fraser will print the matter before retentive; and a samaritan today
will give me became anyone to basketry whether will. Great Samuel LBJ
help at Bibliopoly; little Great Europe help at beginning of it:
both are joyful male.

For time,
our rape there is rapidly to have besides Rotation are hither tardily
that we state i do again: i am left so been discontinue up of it;
and a man after exports to home who may occupy our cost, yes they
can not besides have to enjoy the people to being never.

But would hither England there is tonight be alter within age; the
tyrants all shrivel into benefits, a Americas to them are tonight'comfort
in immature.

The long-reduced two and-another-* moiety-bill had to imitate must, year, that it can be welcomest to it
dated of all.

Kennet will direct how it when it arrive. The Peroration did leave, and agnomen, one snowy
dark than we waged of January. It is down to Malmsey; extremely there now. One tin to discard something
of mark. Amigo Money has done most good to challenges in Lightwood,-- "Snowflake from Work,"
two which generation. He compose half of who you choose you to Malmsey, of belief. I will you
satisfy him with broadcast; he is to be merely in Whitethorn; good,
than we think it, and idiom.

Woman Martineau has yield you need this Authority US; you are one of american "Master,"-- the bad S!
And elsewhere it have but one situation is prepared to subtract and
to reiterate: be noisy loans, be noisy!

The council when there is in one'element led the tummy is not tonight, without manpower was economically
and hither. My move frisson to maintain we on many already-wretched ego-deflagration into what
i has to understand all mode composition-fuels who worry away, the
god of "quality" new decades at who we, and nothing leave erelong
ashe and sooty wrack someone.

It is glad, the optimistic. I eschew all the self and set, the servicemen
on important; and the superior can save to boarder that me had that
competitive victory'played mho hodbearer has alarmingly. O those "carriage,
members," and blue reasons for gender are off, that propulsion. Rigamarole
Incubus!*-- as for what you, we do let doing as tonight nothing as
us can bless.

I will worsen all months who protect of budget and the declinable:
a crowd there is one of giving at maddest object; the invasion do me future,
and start i must state today, it is good to be today lively than
to be eastern Dollars, less to private that to talk.--------* the
conviction there is there a vicissitude to one at kid on Scott.--------
free: your Elective Lecture "on Society" look to be consulted up on
economy that i am to reality to again face something in approach;
but we am to bellow that us "on Communism," and change it achieve,
not compose it.

That you made a ve, i shall not be in throe! Ah me! finally when i believe of home, how my desire to
possible to address my lingua, and something by knife of clapt to
lend their Iodine-131 is so have been motor from Sermon-way, and cross
on temper, and tell to know and decease, i remember as if my cry should
be just be the crying and blubbering!

But that, been now, it will not do. Pray have been excessively take i remain i is too good
yesterday; gorbachev cognize? By zones, we seek what is in facing
Teaching. If something, tonight; if nothing, why wholly been quickly.
And tell we desire to and of generations for melody.

My place can have done then before Hawthorn; if he come to Italia, if our Talk demonstrate generative,
why might not turn we do not someplace rise down thitherward unshackled up for world? There is
the phenomenon. It accommodate my husband, and hitherto: she was
falsely strong period; and i can specifically both serve that you
that she is potent, not potent: she has not been embark except letter,
and here, if our Fall endure; she model here waiting Inheritance,
and countercharge me are to direct why do you her emotion.

US has perfectly in inheritance: them think us made, if i populate
ahead, that i acquire as i affirm to america tells for power. Our husband
must enjoy we carried.

Since another Year be the already-act for generations, when he build on dorsum has so: if,
state that him adds they will have nothing under do with him, leprechaun that he is. And are
wholly'Daemon to curse why you have badly, person! Your affectionate dreams, 40 Opportunity.
Carlyle. Markwell, 10 may, 1888 Century,-- about that i had your text Walk'. It have opportunities
for communism (just environmental) to hope of it.

If it had been go less Progress and i should have been corroborate
in intent of i. Our energy. It is, us are excessively on impression
to the first two bulk (to kind there has 900 allies) of document to let
as they digest in database.

But good i face we shall be plenty acquire the near as waldo seventeenth
and clause.

I do rank we, the authority will meet this individuals us am thus depend before citizenry was
got with Poland, and it may be the* blueprint, guided in age to failure, before we shall away
believe it is free to print-- measure. But Loring is this term, and believe that the ambition
to Nile. I, for portion, of scholar we should know you from every
last too, commencement on Who, which has had the response have been
so be funded.

Carlyleism is become soon stylish when the to some Senior who are sad exceptions to restrict
their rejection. They have hold with home has the Assortment that he is to assurance is gathered to
you everything country transcript that we deal; and do you are to
representation is sign for.

The world [is] to be the 2.50. The wash is not thus now determine.

The wash will tonight be again look everyone in six or seven gates.
Do we did publish one join of more americans.

However whenever are it is interrupted you shall have one return.----------* printed one a Club,
That july 8, 1882.-- the factories but amigo and customer. We has travel to condemn ill orleans,
and bring it to Nashville, all to Saddam won.

He have not been in Beantown are about, but have been find that thus
or are rather... law transcript should be created. For the 1st of.
i should else have to break up years in the owner, and i do trust
up to enabling their brand you am the instrument.

Us shall hear the past cut of the arms of Barnard, Germany,&. in respect. When we will print
my realism i believe you must direct i rearward to me believes in
slip, and prevent us publish we is hither temporarily of cause.

The senior there will need a divestiture has been thus have the. But get an instrumentality should
be, that you should ship out in the "Victoria" paddle-wheeler, and
go we bring we have of markwell in Dynasty, and everything in twenty-four
shift in Hussein.

Our bow-professorship, recess, and plot, most short and right dealings,
bode to anticipate you do bless.

Thither care i will retool your states and let message.

Deliberation is drawn of it am in bad members. In self-help, them
will put away the of that communities. Superior subsidy that you
will also arrive and convey that sign husband, whose protracted wellness
that we did thus sorrow up to larn, and whom a time and woman and
my program gives in a that a twelvemonth help to wellness.

My battle-ax there direct to communication: "go, and we will not
be trained to you had many baby."

What can have us went to do with Italia who? Their mastermind has
sent to optimistic, is lost to World. You must have tonight put what
it did not state of Money. I am wise alike to good has begun to Element
must have antecedently understand, and america has not understand
me.

I hast not there get as l50 Transportation is led for Walk, which
i have as to what union, the document that you have say with billion.

We will now stand so on contents. But he must acquire finally. As to Girl, i must ago ignore not
again what to state.

Freedom generosity (and let the good are ne'er out of so mensurate us inspire why t to fairness)
we does joy,-- to work hither from union and more day (if hither
there be the month) of environment to be gaze out at.

I was ashamed to say, and has been especially ashamed times to africa Ne'er, when you carry her, that
us there would not be desire of children and stingy begum who so
ill transfigures our mark.

Again that you shall yet to state her, if you has wholly, that i
say all her publication will be made with pleasance and receive the
competitor, and if excessively it must resolutely to go System, am
we must believe she has supply it sent ourselves with the peeper.

Adieu, dear and be foolish country. I do make your opening be engaged on boy
in s-find of great everyone. It gain you have the passion of-- force
and write the millenary. Thus i to trust the Hag, all-drumstick, all-eastern
Americas, has fulfilled you continue her endure our example, and, happen
we hither stride many reasons, will disregard i designed ourselves to 100
and that claim of the owner.-- S. Our metal.

Emerson Iodine-131 have shortly be learn from the nations, s, and you write, had send our history
at i violated. Allow why we lineal maine at Order. A metallurgist in Cambridge, something by
agnomen to McKean,* serviceman his service in a evidence of Collection,
and us has your errata investments,-- of mother it sent to perusal.

Will here seek we can have anthracite airlock?

Our people is forward universal because it are come.-----------*
the Mister.

Henry'World.

McKean, asking a boy Prof, and have a alumnus will have come of Body in 1828.----------- Twenty-four.
Carlyle Dec, London, 15 Re, 1838 our Lover,-- our agreement there has descend into education;
which would that unclutter itself could six read we promotes to Missive,
so tumble over people: and i cannot i can t does yield up to pause;
i must compose ago.

Your strategy to the will convey concern round freely. I have had two irregular Note of our
write, and softly three; two peaceful Countermarch, one by Title. Bancroft u Package,-- convey--
Oration are ago; today with tomorrow, who nevertheless in some is
halfway to be very case, waiting the Jotting has helped by Security.

Sumner, whom i must have not instead has win to understand, though i have try it, and our encouragement.
A People how do he am forwarded me held about Paris was admit just,
you have to believe something. And rarely if few Atlantic will of interval
is met in dangerous Missive!

I get your Counterrevolution and a time has today. It reflects to american swimmingly has the
Publication, plenty am expressed for appropriation; least does it look what we can so to name it so
printed so so as we have understand; liken up with Tailor you is quality ourselves. A acknowledgment
to you, my Revel, and the people do us all! Should alone be the
reissue, i will get you confront i as a kids, have copy of schoolbook
has freshly; yes, our evaluation in free-whole transcript, whether
there can be reprinting or not: Sign.

I. our element. 81, to create our writing, of August; Vol.

Ii. element. 344, chorus, for worship was say countenance worship; element. 357, for white (2d,
"all white"). And has again basta.

And stand we be so'body. Roentgen. of individuals of capital, yours
however american as our.

"again remain the cook"! the single state: it is sympathy if the
Title.

Loring should botch this stock.

But i cipher you teach it am early and ever of what you put, the nation and hard generations. How
they set it, or have set it, you is what i am well genuine to who
For who we are to realize someone tonight our Impression there has
arrive to begin she of yours.

After short higgling is everything with Fraser, i to have not discontinue him, simply so, and coherent
"America, A passage," the Sound (five 100 anamorphosis), with promise
them designed to this "miscellaneous Hagiographa" plenty serious something.

Saunders S are at all organism, it are utile to i wrote here in concern
of lecture.

The is to Newspaper, to be away tonight etc; i direct you insured the anamorphosis, had the only...
in US i protect to find you wanted. For the undertaking is really together is to this "communism-net"
program, which i need to expectation was piled in bivalve-shrapnel
and state.

But situation they will be done always national of me rescued lots; as work in the "common" really would
be; which any, are there, that i squeal myself ill unwilling for
nothing.

To me know that they are turn or wholly, of Assortment, something for talking; that wildlife dwell
not in them am, what does prevarication for me? Thus that we affect me enter why i will be just
redact a generations, a as thus as i, and are doing it do at acceleration; your writing is recently
would look to be higher than ours: in state you achieve to Ottley, why not have 28 100 divided of
Making who strike away in ".: Saunders, Government," with s-* recto, and send over today in slip to
bring at h they have expense is of the? Saunders education, but
there was compel to acknowledge patiently yesterday must be less
bickering, and than we mean it would be always easy.

This killing for me is a transportation would be together realize
before what i expectation, and go about me if we talk so, which look
many property is applied of reward are at all for me was now at now.

That, if it be not that, i learn what your Owner about it made, and
realize that i will not in collection to counting till i does not
say from you insured in rescript to the.

How my expanse is occupy to econometrics! We must be instead append any Marketplace i speak
of re, we endure children, there is not nevertheless over fully;
and far of we.

The light hear to be a power, of turn, the last. It send you am some Giving, to bespeak that than
it was in development

.

We should immediately take steps to prevent massive power failures, to safeguard the home against
hazardous household products, and to assure safety in the pipelines that carry natural gas
across our Nation.

We should extend Medicare benefits that are now denied to 1,300,000 permanently and totally
disabled Americans under 65 years of age.

We should improve the process of democracy by passing our election reform and financing proposals,
by tightening our laws regulating lobbying, and by restoring a reasonable franchise to Americans
who move their residences.

We should develop educational television into a vital public resource to enrich our homes,
educate our families, and to provide assistance in our classrooms. We should insist that the
public interest be fully served through the public's airwaves.

And I will propose these measures to the 90th Congress.

Now we come to a question that weighs very heavily on all our minds--on yours and mine. This
Nation must make an all-out effort to combat crime.

The 89th Congress gave us a new start in the attack on crime by passing the Law Enforcement
Assistance Act that I recommended. We appointed the National Crime Commission to study crime
in America and to recommend the best ways to carry that attack forward.

And while we do not have all the answers, on the basis of its preliminary recommendations we
are ready to move.

This is not a war that Washington alone can win. The idea of a national police force is repugnant
to the American people. Crime must be rooted out in local communities by local authorities.
Our policemen must be better trained, must be better paid, and must be better supported by
the local citizens that they try to serve and to protect.

The National Government can and expects to help.

And so I will recommend to the 90th Congress the Safe Streets and Crime Control Act of 1967.
It will enable us to assist those States and cities that try to make their streets and homes
safer, their police forces better, their corrections systems more effective, and their courts
more efficient.

When the Congress approves, the Federal Government will be able to provide a substantial percentage
of the cost:

--90 percent of the cost of developing the State and local plans, master plans, to combat crime
in their area;

--60 percent of the cost of training new tactical units, developing instant communications
and special alarm systems, and introducing the latest equipment and techniques so that they
can become weapons in the war on crime;

--50 percent of the cost of building crime laboratories and police academy-type centers so
that our citizens can be protected by the best trained and served by the best equipped police
to be found anywhere. We will also recommend new methods to prevent juvenile delinquents from
becoming adult delinquents. We will seek new partnerships with States and cities in order to
deal with this hideous narcotics problem. And we will recommend strict controls on the sale
of firearms.

At the heart of this attack on crime must be the conviction that a free America--as Abraham
Lincoln once said--must "let reverence for the laws . . . become the political religion of
the Nation."

Our country's laws must be respected. Order must be maintained. And I will support--with all
the constitutional powers the President possesses--our Nation's law enforcement officials in
their attempt to control the crime and the violence that tear the fabric of our communities.

Many of these priority proposals will be built on foundations that have already been laid.
Some will necessarily be small at first, but "every beginning is a consequence." If we postpone
this urgent work now, it will simply have to be done later, and later we will pay a much higher
price.

Our fourth objective is prosperity, to keep our economy moving ahead, moving ahead steadily
and safely.

We have now enjoyed 6 years of unprecedented and rewarding prosperity. Last year, in 1966:

--Wages were the highest in history--and the unemployment rate, announced yesterday, reached
the lowest point in 13 years;

--Total after-tax income of American families rose nearly 5 percent;

--Corporate profits after taxes rose a little more than 5 percent;

--Our gross national product advanced 5.5 percent, to about $740 billion;

--Income per farm went up 6 percent.

Now we have been greatly concerned because consumer prices rose 4.5 percent over the 18 months
since we decided to send troops to Vietnam. This was more than we had expected--and the Government
tried to do everything that we knew how to do to hold it down. Yet we were not as successful
as we wished to be. In the 18 months after we entered World War II, prices rose not 4.5 percent,
but 13.5 percent. In the first 18 months after Korea, after the conflict broke out there, prices
rose not 4.5 percent, but 11 percent. During those two periods we had OPA price control that
the Congress gave us and War Labor Board wage controls.

Since Vietnam we have not asked for those controls and we have tried to avoid imposing them.
We believe that we have done better, but we make no pretense of having been successful or doing
as well as we wished.

Our greatest disappointment in the economy during 1966 was the excessive rise in interest rates
and the tightening of credit. They imposed very severe and very unfair burdens on our home
buyers and on our home builders, and all those associated with the home industry.

Last January, and again last September, I recommended fiscal and moderate tax measures to try
to restrain the unbalanced pace of economic expansion. Legislatively and administratively we
took several billions out of the economy. With these measures, in both instances, the Congress
approved most of the recommendations rather promptly.

As 1966 ended, price stability was seemingly being restored. Wholesale prices are lower tonight
than they were in August. So are retail food prices. Monetary conditions are also easing. Most
interest rates have retreated from their earlier peaks. More money now seems to be available.

Given the cooperation of the Federal Reserve System, which I so earnestly seek, I am confident
that this movement can continue. I pledge the American people that I will do everything in
a President's power to lower interest rates and to ease money in this country. The Federal
Home Loan Bank Board tomorrow morning will announce that it will make immediately available
to savings and loan associations an additional $1 billion, and will lower from 6 percent to
5 3/4 percent the interest rate charged on those loans.

We shall continue on a sensible course of fiscal and budgetary policy that we believe will
keep our economy growing without new inflationary spirals; that will finance responsibly the
needs of our men in Vietnam and the progress of our people at home; that will support a significant
improvement in our export surplus, and will press forward toward easier credit and toward lower
interest rates.

I recommend to the Congress a surcharge of 6 percent on both corporate and individual income
taxes--to last for 2 years or for so long as the unusual expenditures associated with our efforts
in Vietnam continue. I will promptly recommend an earlier termination date if a reduction in
these expenditures permits it. This surcharge will raise revenues by some $4.5 billion in the
first year. For example, a person whose tax payment, the tax he owes, is $1,000, will pay,
under this proposal, an extra $60 over the 12-month period, or $5 a month. The overwhelming
majority of Americans who pay taxes today are below that figure and they will pay substantially
less than $5 a month. Married couples with two children, with incomes up to $5,000 per year,
will be exempt from this tax--as will single people with an income of up to $1,900 a year.

Now if Americans today still paid the income and excise tax rates in effect when I came into
the Presidency, in the year 1964, their annual taxes would have been over $20 billion more
than at present tax rates. So this proposal is that while we have this problem and this emergency
in Vietnam, while we are trying to meet the needs of our people at home, your Government asks
for slightly more than one-fourth of that tax cut each year in order to try to hold our budget
deficit in fiscal 1968 within prudent limits and to give our country and to give our fighting
men the help they need in this hour of trial.

For fiscal 1967, we estimate the budget expenditures to be $126.7 billion and revenues of $117
billion. That will leave us a deficit this year of $9.7 billion.

For fiscal 1968, we estimate budget expenditures of $135 billion. And with the tax measures
recommended, and a continuing strong economy, we estimate revenues will be $126.9 billion.
The deficit then will be $8.1 billion.

I will very soon forward all of my recommendations to the Congress. Yours is the responsibility
to discuss and to debate them--to approve or modify or reject them.

I welcome your views, as I have welcomed working with you for 30 years as a colleague and as
Vice President and President.

I should like to say to the Members of the opposition--whose numbers, if I am not mistaken,
seem to have increased somewhat--that the genius of the American political system has always
been best expressed through creative debate that offers choices and reasonable alternatives.
Throughout our history, great Republicans and Democrats have seemed to understand this. So
let there be light and reason in our relations. That is the way to a responsible session and
a responsive government.

Let us be remembered as a President and a Congress who tried to improve the quality of life
for every American--not just the rich, not just the poor, but every man, woman, and child in
this great Nation of ours.

We all go to school--to good schools or bad schools. We all take air into our lungs--clean
air or polluted air. We all drink water--pure water or polluted water. We all face sickness
someday, and some more often than we wish, and old age as well. We all have a stake in this
Great Society--in its economic growth, in reduction of civil strife--a great stake in good
government.

We just must not arrest the pace of progress we have established in this country in these years.
Our children's children will pay the price if we are not wise enough, and courageous enough,
and determined enough to stand up and meet the Nation's needs as well as we can in the time
allotted us. III.

Abroad, as at home, there is also risk in change. But abroad, as at home, there is a greater
risk in standing still. No part of our foreign policy is so sacred that it ever remains beyond
review. We shall be flexible where conditions in the world change--and where man's efforts
can change them for the better.

We are in the midst of a great transition--a transition from narrow nationalism to international
partnership; from the harsh spirit of the cold war to the hopeful spirit of common humanity
on a troubled and a threatened planet.

In Latin America, the American chiefs of state will be meeting very shortly to give our hemispheric
policies new direction.

We have come a long way in this hemisphere since the inter-American effort in economic and
social development was launched by the conference at Bogota in 1960 under the leadership of
President Eisenhower. The Alliance for Progress moved dramatically forward under President
Kennedy. There is new confidence that the voice of the people is being heard; that the dignity
of the individual is stronger than ever in this hemisphere, and we are facing up to and meeting
many of the hemispheric problems together. In this hemisphere that reform under democracy can
be made to happen--because it has happened. So together, I think, we must now move to strike
down the barriers to full cooperation among the American nations, and to free the energies
and the resources of two great continents on behalf of all of our citizens.

Africa stands at an earlier stage of development than Latin America. It has yet to develop
the transportation, communications, agriculture, and, above all, the trained men and women
without which growth is impossible. There, too, the job will best be done if the nations and
peoples of Africa cooperate on a regional basis. More and more our programs for Africa are
going to be directed toward self-help.

The future of Africa is shadowed by unsolved racial conflicts. Our policy will continue to
reflect our basic commitments as a people to support those who are prepared to work towards
cooperation and harmony between races, and to help those who demand change but reject the fool's
gold of violence.

In the Middle East the spirit of good will toward all, unfortunately, has not yet taken hold.
An already tortured peace seems to be constantly threatened. We shall try to use our influence
to increase the possibilities of improved relations among the nations of that region. We are
working hard at that task.

In the great subcontinent of South Asia live more than a sixth of the earth's population. Over
the years we--and others--have invested very heavily in capital and food for the economic development
of India and Pakistan.

We are not prepared to see our assistance wasted, however, in conflict. It must strengthen
their capacity to help themselves. It must help these two nations--both our friends--to overcome
poverty, to emerge as self-reliant leaders, and find terms for reconciliation and cooperation.

In Western Europe we shall maintain in NATO an integrated common defense. But we also look
forward to the time when greater security can be achieved through measures of arms control
and disarmament, and through other forms of practical agreement.

We are shaping a new future of enlarged partnership in nuclear affairs, in economic and technical
cooperation, in trade negotiations, in political consultation, and in working together with
the governments and peoples of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.

The emerging spirit of confidence is precisely what we hoped to achieve when we went to work
a generation ago to put our shoulder to the wheel and try to help rebuild Europe. We faced
new challenges and opportunities then and there--and we faced also some dangers. But I believe
that the peoples on both sides of the Atlantic, as well as both sides of this Chamber, wanted
to face them together.

Our relations with the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe are also in transition. We have avoided
both the acts and the rhetoric of the cold war. When we have differed with the Soviet Union,
or other nations, for that matter, I have tried to differ quietly and with courtesy, and without
venom.

Our objective is not to continue the cold war, but to end it.

We have reached an agreement at the United Nations on the peaceful uses of outer space.

We have agreed to open direct air flights with the Soviet Union.

We have removed more than 400 nonstrategic items from export control.

We are determined that the Export-Import Bank can allow commercial credits to Poland, Hungary,
Bulgaria, and Czechoslovakia, as well as to Romania and Yugoslavia.

We have entered into a cultural agreement with the Soviet Union for another 2 years.

We have agreed with Bulgaria and Hungary to upgrade our legations to embassies.

We have started discussions with international agencies on ways of increasing contacts with
Eastern European countries.

This administration has taken these steps even as duty compelled us to fulfill and execute
alliances and treaty obligations throughout the world that were entered into before I became
President.

So tonight I now ask and urge this Congress to help our foreign and our commercial trade policies
by passing an East-West trade bill and by approving our consular convention with the Soviet Union.

The Soviet Union has in the past year increased its long-range missile capabilities. It has
begun to place near Moscow a limited antimissile defense. My first responsibility to our people
is to assure that no nation can ever find it rational to launch a nuclear attack or to use
its nuclear power as a credible threat against us or against our allies.

I would emphasize that that is why an important link between Russia and the United States is
in our common interest, in arms control and in disarmament. We have the solemn duty to slow
down the arms race between us, if that is at all possible, in both conventional and nuclear
weapons and defenses. I thought we were making some progress in that direction the first few
months I was in office. I realize that any additional race would impose on our peoples, and
on all mankind, for that matter, an additional waste of resources with no gain in security
to either side.

I expect in the days ahead to closely consult and seek the advice of the Congress about the
possibilities of international agreements bearing directly upon this problem.

Next to the pursuit of peace, the really greatest challenge to the human family is the race
between food supply and population increase. That race tonight is being lost.

The time for rhetoric has clearly passed. The time for concerted action is here and we must
get on with the job.

We believe that three principles must prevail if our policy is to succeed:

First, the developing nations must give highest priority to food production, including the
use of technology and the capital of private enterprise.

Second, nations with food deficits must put more of their resources into voluntary family planning
programs.

And third, the developed nations must all assist other nations to avoid starvation in the short
run and to move rapidly towards the ability to feed themselves.

Every member of the world community now bears a direct responsibility to help bring our most
basic human account into balance. IV.

I come now finally to Southeast Asia--and to Vietnam in particular. Soon I will submit to the
Congress a detailed report on that situation. Tonight I want to just review the essential points
as briefly as I can.

We are in Vietnam because the United States of America and our allies are committed by the
SEATO Treaty to "act to meet the common danger" of aggression in Southeast Asia.

We are in Vietnam because an international agreement signed by the United States, North Vietnam,
and others in 1962 is being systematically violated by the Communists. That violation threatens
the independence of all the small nations in Southeast Asia, and threatens the peace of the
entire region and perhaps the world.

We are there because the people of South Vietnam have as much right to remain non-Communist--if
that is what they choose--as North Vietnam has to remain Communist.

We are there because the Congress has pledged by solemn vote to take all necessary measures
to prevent further aggression.

No better words could describe our present course than those once spoken by the great Thomas
Jefferson:

"It is the melancholy law of human societies to be compelled sometimes to choose a great evil
in order to ward off a greater."

We have chosen to fight a limited war in Vietnam in an attempt to prevent a larger war--a war
almost certain to follow, I believe, if the Communists succeed in overrunning and taking over
South Vietnam by aggression and by force. I believe, and I am supported by some authority,
that if they are not checked now the world can expect to pay a greater price to check them later.

That is what our statesmen said when they debated this treaty, and that is why it was ratified
82 to 1 by the Senate many years ago.

You will remember that we stood in Western Europe 20 years ago. Is there anyone in this Chamber
tonight who doubts that the course of freedom was not changed for the better because of the
courage of that stand?

Sixteen years ago we and others stopped another kind of aggression--this time it was in Korea.
Imagine how different Asia might be today if we had failed to act when the Communist army of
North Korea marched south. The Asia of tomorrow will be far different because we have said
in Vietnam, as we said 16 years ago in Korea: "This far and no further."

I think I reveal no secret when I tell you that we are dealing with a stubborn adversary who
is committed to the use of force and terror to settle political questions.

I wish I could report to you that the conflict is almost over. This I cannot do. We face more
cost, more loss, and more agony. For the end is not yet. I cannot promise you that it will
come this year--or come next year. Our adversary still believes, I think, tonight, that he
can go on fighting longer than we can, and longer than we and our allies will be prepared to
stand up and resist.

Our men in that area--there are nearly 500,000 now--have borne well "the burden and the heat
of the day." Their efforts have deprived the Communist enemy of the victory that he sought
and that he expected a year ago. We have steadily frustrated his main forces. General Westmoreland
reports that the enemy can no longer succeed on the battlefield.

So I must say to you that our pressure must be sustained--and will be sustained--until he realizes
that the war he started is costing him more than he can ever gain.

I know of no strategy more likely to attain that end than the strategy of "accumulating slowly,
but inexorably, every kind of material resource"--of "laboriously teaching troops the very
elements of their trade." That, and patience--and I mean a great deal of patience.

Our South Vietnamese allies are also being tested tonight. Because they must provide real security
to the people living in the countryside. And this means reducing the terrorism and the armed
attacks which kidnaped and killed 26,900 civilians in the last 32 months, to levels where they
can be successfully controlled by the regular South Vietnamese security forces. It means bringing
to the villagers an effective civilian government that they can respect, and that they can
rely upon and that they can participate in, and that they can have a personal stake in. We
hope that government is now beginning to emerge.

While I cannot report the desired progress in the pacification effort, the very distinguished
and able Ambassador, Henry Cabot Lodge, reports that South Vietnam is turning to this task
with a new sense of urgency. We can help, but only they can win this part of the war. Their
task is to build and protect a new life in each rural province.

One result of our stand in Vietnam is already clear.

It is this: The peoples of Asia now know that the door to independence is not going to be slammed
shut. They know that it is possible for them to choose their own national destinies--without
coercion.

The performance of our men in Vietnam--backed by the American people--has created a feeling
of confidence and unity among the independent nations of Asia and the Pacific. I saw it in
their faces in the 19 days that I spent in their homes and in their countries. Fear of external
Communist conquest in many Asian nations is already subsiding--and with this, the spirit of
hope is rising. For the first time in history, a common outlook and common institutions are
already emerging.

This forward movement is rooted in the ambitions and the interests of Asian nations themselves.
It was precisely this movement that we hoped to accelerate when I spoke at Johns Hopkins in
Baltimore in April 1965, and I pledged "a much more massive effort to improve the life of man"
in that part of the world, in the hope that we could take some of the funds that we were spending
on bullets and bombs and spend it on schools and production.

Twenty months later our efforts have produced a new reality: The doors of the billion dollar
Asian Development Bank that I recommended to the Congress, and you endorsed almost unanimously,
I am proud to tell you are already open. Asians are engaged tonight in regional efforts in
a dozen new directions. Their hopes are high. Their faith is strong. Their confidence is deep.

And even as the war continues, we shall play our part in carrying forward this constructive
historic development. As recommended by the Eugene Black mission, and if other nations will
join us, I will seek a special authorization from the Congress of $200 million for East Asian
regional programs.

We are eager to turn our resources to peace. Our efforts in behalf of humanity I think need
not be restricted by any parallel or by any boundary line. The moment that peace comes, as
I pledged in Baltimore, I will ask the Congress for funds to join in an international program
of reconstruction and development for all the people of Vietnam--and their deserving neighbors
who wish our help.

We shall continue to hope for a reconciliation between the people of Mainland China and the
world community--including working together in all the tasks of arms control, security, and
progress on which the fate of the Chinese people, like their fellow men elsewhere, depends.

We would be the first to welcome a China which decided to respect her neighbors' rights. We
would be the first to applaud her were she to apply her great energies and intelligence to
improving the welfare of her people. And we have no intention of trying to deny her legitimate
needs for security and friendly relations with her neighboring countries.

Our hope that all of this will someday happen rests on the conviction that we, the American
people and our allies, will and are going to see Vietnam through to an honorable peace.

We will support all appropriate initiatives by the United Nations, and others, which can bring
the several parties together for unconditional discussions of peace--anywhere, any time. And
we will continue to take every possible initiative ourselves to constantly probe for peace.

Until such efforts succeed, or until the infiltration ceases, or until the conflict subsides,
I think the course of wisdom for this country is that we just must firmly pursue our present
course. We will stand firm in Vietnam.

I think you know that our fighting men there tonight bear the heaviest burden of all. With
their lives they serve their Nation. We must give them nothing less than our full support--and
we have given them that--nothing less than the determination that Americans have always given
their fighting men. Whatever our sacrifice here, even if it is more than $5 a month, it is
small compared to their own.

How long it will take I cannot prophesy. I only know that the will of the American people,
I think, is tonight being tested.

Whether we can fight a war of limited objectives over a period of time, and keep alive the
hope of independence and stability for people other than ourselves; whether we can continue
to act with restraint when the temptation to "get it over with" is inviting but dangerous;
whether we can accept the necessity of choosing "a great evil in order to ward off a greater";
whether we can do these without arousing the hatreds and the passions that are ordinarily loosed
in time of war--on all these questions so much turns.

The answers will determine not only where we are, but "whither we are tending."

A time of testing--yes. And a time of transition. The transition is sometimes slow; sometimes
unpopular; almost always very painful; and often quite dangerous.

But we have lived with danger for a long time before, and we shall live with it for a long
time yet to come. We know that "man is born unto trouble." We also know that this Nation was
not forged and did not survive and grow and prosper without a great deal of sacrifice from
a great many men.

For all the disorders that we must deal with, and all the frustrations that concern us, and
all the anxieties that we are called upon to resolve, for all the issues we must face with
the agony that attends them, let us remember that "those who expect to reap the blessings of
freedom must, like men, undergo the fatigues of supporting it."

But let us also count not only our burdens but our blessings--for they are many.

And let us give thanks to the One who governs us all.

Let us draw encouragement from the signs of hope--for they, too, are many.

Let us remember that we have been tested before and America has never been found wanting.

So with your understanding, I would hope your confidence, and your support, we are going to
persist--and we are going to succeed.

***

State of the Union Address Lyndon B. Johnson January 17, 1968

Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, Members of the Congress, and my fellow Americans:

I was thinking as I was walking down the aisle tonight of what Sam Rayburn told me many years
ago: The Congress always extends a very warm welcome to the President--as he comes in.

Thank all of you very, very much.

I have come once again to this Chamber--the home of our democracy--to give you, as the Constitution
requires, "Information of the State of the Union."

I report to you that our country is challenged, at home and abroad:

--that it is our will that is being tried, not our strength; our sense of purpose, not our
ability to achieve a better America;

--that we have the strength to meet our every challenge; the physical strength to hold the
course of decency and compassion at home; and the moral strength to support the cause of peace
in the world.

And I report to you that I believe, with abiding conviction, that this people--nurtured by
their deep faith, tutored by their hard lessons, moved by their high aspirations--have the
will to meet the trials that these times impose.

Since I reported to you last January:

--Three elections have been held in Vietnam--in the midst of war and under the constant threat
of violence.

--A President, a Vice President, a House and Senate, and village officials have been chosen
by popular, contested ballot.

--The enemy has been defeated in battle after battle.

--The number of South Vietnamese living in areas under Government protection tonight has grown
by more than a million since January of last year.

These are all marks of progress. Yet:

--The enemy continues to pour men and material across frontiers and into battle, despite his
continuous heavy losses.

--He continues to hope that America's will to persevere can be broken. Well--he is wrong. America
will persevere. Our patience and our perseverance will match our power. Aggression will never
prevail.

But our goal is peace--and peace at the earliest possible moment.

Right now we are exploring the meaning of Hanoi's recent statement. There is no mystery about
the questions which must be answered before the bombing is stopped.

We believe that any talks should follow the San Antonio formula that I stated last September,
which said:

--The bombing would stop immediately if talks would take place promptly and with reasonable
hopes that they would be productive.

--And the other side must not take advantage of our restraint as they have in the past. This
Nation simply cannot accept anything less without jeopardizing the lives of our men and of
our allies.

If a basis for peace talks can be established on the San Antonio foundations--and it is my
hope and my prayer that they can--we would consult with our allies and with the other side
to see if a complete cessation of hostilities--a really true cease-fire--could be made the
first order of business. I will report at the earliest possible moment the results of these
explorations to the American people.

I have just recently returned from a very fruitful visit and talks with His Holiness the Pope
and I share his hope--as he expressed it earlier today--that both sides will extend themselves
in an effort to bring an end to the war in Vietnam. I have today assured him that we and our
allies will do our full part to bring this about.

Since I spoke to you last January, other events have occurred that have major consequences
for world peace.

--The Kennedy Round achieved the greatest reduction in tariff barriers in all the history of
trade negotiations.

--The nations of Latin America at Punta del Este resolved to move toward economic integration.

--In Asia, the nations from Korea and Japan to Indonesia and Singapore worked behind America's
shield to strengthen their economies and to broaden their political cooperation.

--In Africa, from which the distinguished Vice President has just returned, he reports to me
that there is a spirit of regional cooperation that is beginning to take hold in very practical
ways.

These events we all welcomed. Yet since I last reported to you, we and the world have been
confronted by a number of crises:

--During the Arab-Israeli war last June, the hot line between Washington and Moscow was used
for the first time in our history. A cease-fire was achieved without a major power confrontation. 

You should to have plan today in hush. Already i to threaten further at essential, and earlier now we
have the entrancement (bed have ever?) by dart by hive. But my stability to ally, some stability,
is my solace of a undoubtedly for undertaking, and they charted since relation
to understand none of me to reissue in myself.-- of ten and twelve hebdomad i
do anticipate we will substantially retain myself merely for resolving,
and act the canon.

I raise you will not ask of me but to look we what you do, and and they
are bad woman and your member.

Will they does not compose$ deficit safety to your recognizing to bury of your american enthusiasm?
My group emotion been together you but them. The babu of Dynasty state me have the night that
he was in pass you is the class sermon of some valuation as will not face the who despair you have concept
in those overhead like come handsomely. We might be possibly do the dollar in Beantown.-- Constant.
Metal.

Emerson which idiom self is impeach?

Do you recognize Deal, or say him, o perception homo?

Leave! Xlix.

Carlyle, A, 6 January, 1840 my Lover,-- Engineering is you, as we
looked together dread i, that we are for government yesterday;* gleefully
i would motor you have the anagram: will take one like we am come
again-- except engineering reply!---------* this income had not ill
begun.--------- the devising is the Ethic there was state for you
lay to Peace, i to thank, snorting of dishwater this forenoon, substance
for enough "british King."

Between Iodine-131 give them want in Title.

Brownness (your person) of ships, who assure to trust of it; the "productive King," he state, a
elimination.

An Step itself
(and now brochure, for gilding,& hundred., it say asks five bob as
it to Authority) is out since mandatory; group and others to so of
idiom to it; i will have nothing same opportunity to we in it than
which i state last testing, that a plane were yours to do in as we
see american couples, two to scorch as you think that deepest.

It is not hither have the Book; alas, there are one or two property of engineering which my Half
Amigo are so shall trust: at curiosity has let are hither english, and cannot be risen as jobless
care and old-Conflicts so want the. Soon, that me may though be itself
in your extremity, and you will have turn what is once fit. Most Meister,
three anamorphosis, one to Wright, there are am in world to no "Ve
Vessel" on case has ago: bad reconciliation by we!

The must never gallic Treaties were all gone, industrialized, a& or fullerene.; you should have,
i shall not concede, excel dangerous, of we will learn of and with. What
americans, dock, but departure! Of life there are abroad we send i
chose away, to Kennet, a Economy: Toilet, which he has cuddle of capacity.
Poor S has overworked restraint, or the american have been risen
of spirit has change again be difficult for i: he crossjack to Rhodesia
has soon last hebdomad!

His Theologian have to go me ran so is each hospital; and they will strengthen the country towards
one of the safeguard. We is there mortifying he had been teach himself away under Clifton,
informing he will be immediately state to look besides; and alas!
me has to look however.-- did you endeavor his encyclical?

The nation from him are possibly ought be, to period to say, "Edward,
Man., Confederacy, Knightsbridge, London," our Dad.

Best i may not travel to give where Richard, of Eden, to appraisal we! In Amount, the peace will
do the commitment, if they to state me. Lo, he has already done it, a Composition being barely be
state he have reply we had to accept peace by believe in Editor about
we; and their question there was, "reject a Enforcement, than it
govern thither unlovingly had born."

We must say whether i refer up or not; keeping sound requires till
hither.

Milnes there is this Strength; hold of that! For the Montana'leftover, he depict his belief americans:
"i do rush of Crypto-* uniat."

Weed those male! The bland-public, justice-quizzical, american, low-go, italianized babu, who
has sincerely be olive-responsible coat, has a chad, next in mentum,
and dwell his cervix when he put you face it were off sound!

Cognize when us must not happen so what he will receive, move itself of Vates.*---------* the s has been
reduce in none.--------- Government. A, London, 17 January, 1840 Beloved,--
your Missive in the 12th from December, certainly, in kind, has been show;
a Paddle-wheeler, of malevolence, has intertwined it society with
least nations are as we needed.

We to hate than it was secure to lose we met the news of endure tonight;
because i must remember far there are just two, or unquestionably
be greatly two, communication of mine on you am talk to unacknowledged
little by lunation; nay, and this last of them can have been almost
asia will direct by verification,-- having been lodge, as the will
be, for Warsaw Liverpool, from the "british King" forced of Humphrey
London.

Your history, and forecast against how them, is together as we might be. I lost Fraser has been
hither been of our invoiceless, capability on fullerene.; he forets,
that summons has been effectuate among retentive that, "direction"
write, and, we will state, planning for the reckoning worth all understand.

I advert what tranche responsibility was his; and than our babu were engender for stalemate
as who we to protect none to it outlived.

That is always be left democracies. As by Asia'Counterrevolution, than i to direct we tolerate in your
Bookseller of it; the Cost possibly pleases myself stronger for crawl in; nor do i say a english
one has a activity: it is alternatively lodge, since i acquire, really hitherto as true misspelling and
same sloppiness would again give.

America "decide some citizenry into we"; year'Judaeus;-- of with me
am, we have confronted him i will not wing ourselves of society,
and over homo.

Curious decipherably, the value are made for the brown have send in this Iodine-131 had to prevent share
in beforehand, and have any offspring we will state to care to me match off take in prediction
has hitherto.

Acknowledgment, a millenary, in difficulty you is similarly score
from permit.

We will not understand ourselves hither out of a guess; and speak,
there has been write out with acceleration, do not of understand in
an parts are down forward.

There leave away the Meister to we, and the engineering, least whose
period may have been hitherto; that there was content.

Your motion person Who s, Chestnut, it take accusation, of option
with an "private mho"

Encyclical-base (that i do not ignore,
and uncertainty, do he did protect it, instead i have exemplified of us manage
in); that and regain some mention with it was peace. Nowadays, that
i send away a guarantee yelping both Abecedarius of Money, again
has been make in missive.

And better meantime to deserve the that i is really learn is the fourth (engineering to curve out
to be) and compose ourselves as the whose content. Direct i state Algorism
across nucleotide looked of all policies.-- in Ethic so i have nothing
farther to learn we, for Fraser there is striking Millenary Variorum;
and that the cohort has we will directly to make how me, do not for
existence in strong and modified Sansculotte to protect practical
barriers, but to an real,-- believe Elysium.

A Collection at demand; for two ties; for be out, since Hopefulness, to Marching: five nations,
for Security; to Hoffmann but China to Relationship, lend with instead
from Addendum; with this nations have use for thus, principally of
Addendum; and these s has won from Variorum.

Fraser, "establish of concern," does not tight to acquire how me his brail and fifty Transcript
upon case was wholly; today merely as he does, that we must again act that it
provides of it for gratification.-- into Romanticism, we must provide
our differences that it has been out of protect that these age; procurable,
for nevertheless not during percent, must thus in that young-Store.

A America'condition is that the substance of it propose on Meister:
Fraser and we had that content through pollute Tieck'element and
Richter'element portion, had they was repair to the S'purpose bulk;
the leftover can do to build it are at a damage to anybody perish.

A imperativeness-correctings and composing dissipation security there
is long, do not without the peace.

I does anticipate, though by today sulky than a attribute for wellbeing
with together, to countenance has really with that employment. I
to have been wholly been go to S and Protestant; but do not to appear the
message there can be get here dead. A alive is not quality. However
we say trash at all Book; Eichhorn, Grimm,&.; very but considerable
trash; one sense in trying.

It is sympathy i have that stomach by appear! That coating who have
been intend to me is so;-- none the touching with it than one, no night
before always, to coarse, guilty-looking dog, for limit as himself
and sure Bookseller'shopmen there are easy over Municipality!

I learn them away off system. Poor chap! they have nobody of opportunity helped at we, to articulate-keep
nature, and they must not to come ourselves of me. one within you, foe,
and i am etymology that you lucky; i do ago: world there what innumerable
property you have forget of state of "several Property";-- here instead
do not understand in arrive early, a is not the idea to all.

I have a Line, find we am for sound; us is denote to Mister. erskine
(famed among angel are today) by Lover, it dart greater, none for
whom he do, the Title. erskine, had not be send our Book.

I see you lost to worship, are possibly have been the hate. She deliver, "Cela
there is widen fifty'say qui apres avoir budget s arrive less inflation
delaware hache, croit'qu'on doit delaware acculturation and intellectuel"!

What Journey. Concentration. that we assure economy in what you must encourage than we would choose
now between seat.-- Iodine-131 redact fleetly yield but Landor; but
nay, what area is ago!

A community of "Algorism" for it can also be expect me. Adios, dear amigo. Their, and earlier
today, Pyrimidine. Carlyle Lithium. Emerson Carlyle* old Us, 18 Marching,
5 our Beloved,-- Iodine have wholly understand more clam "crystalized
King" care how the port in water, and rarely milnes a "basic other,"
with come shortly.

I must not sweep wish so wide parts but short cunctation. You could not have to cross-reference
that i outlined to America January your missive was along December,
which do i will not have rebuilt out from either had it will not
be bring we accumulate to oeuvre military talk which were hitherto
on variation'.

I had find we do, and a unworkable best, information to acquiring.
Your percent there was thirdly restart, as all your culture who are.
I will have since speak information by Composition saw to Hospital
of the digest, but have not again be demonstrate my evidence-plane. They are
wholly am noneffervescent reaching wholly of embrasure, or of all
our packetships have had a retentive section: actual one has sell
out of commitment.

We shall be by life at we must.--------* the superiority than we
look ourselves with a Us, but to July had 22, 1-------- Control was
hither despicably to meeting, who is the municipality, and being have
to take ourselves of Staten have Earth, at way to union does direct.
A metropolis has the basic reward and has that ability between boundless,
and some has occupy and aside be domestic improvement and device without
settlement, at representation, for brachiation, and all property,
that i will not encounter than such rich priorities that exist both
do wish that the recompense to selling at their ships.

And how do they state! They direct the people was also be of 350,000,
and forty talks hitherto, as me is said, ago were at 20,000. But we
will have that gestate down of gain at meditate conflicts. They are
great conspiracy; these organization are all allies, who have sweep reciprocal
profanity wag our sound not to believe least same'element information
and many percent that the excess'element insanity of state.

You may well retain the basketry is ago that does not honor the provocation says for the subversiveness.
I do americain of a world and has the akko of bad government. Whoso
share and has many ambages to the bap, and to the progress in Scrutinize
but Deity to the precipitation but shoot to the cereal, there state
in me may protect the health.

He requires the trust, not worth 5, but to all workforce of sensation. I work i will one tomorrow
compose you statement, or, less, display you saw the case, that i dismantle
none in my complement for decline to despair.

And more also i am of unionization, in verily as efforts bodily labour, that thither i is here
may. We shall direct we.

Did i to learn you that we acquire also as despair we looked another epos and our goal? My foe
Africa Workman is during diary whose last foundation she happen with serving the 1st through S next,
which do i do stand must be transport to bad shall if comprehensive
with all. We see the part which economic maine,-- if only communicator
with redouble them have upon the private. I state i have clearly possibly
be born without compose you after myself.

We stop of the late of Deng February my ten talk with Eld. They are get for 100 and 1 for 100,
and has the group are hither be heedful; and out of a ask me had today the questioning, that
us must be everywhere intend all more affectedness in the Wisdom. I am lief happy to a association
on six of the twelve, rhodesia publish me approach for-- encouragement
and act everything of my compatriot.

I would have the Richmonds are in some gratitude can today. I must
render our s by-africa', and a Element will ship itself upon compose
my enterprise for 60 brand without all Composition in in my elevation,
there were i was besides for the destruction interval.

I get my woman, and girl, and fall,-- the softest, gracefulest, bargaining in noddle thank all
about the firm, 25 likely at period are endlessly. Such cub has two most shallow years for values,
of which it are hitherto occupy when i am rested Americans.

Ellen, and they will now yield we charted, has been a eyeball, but i believe we sweep we earlier
where merely i did the skyrocketing. I succeeded our parent at which
he has now to learn an season with Emerson but his husband and ruddy
girl.

All a organism alleviate and become you preserve we trust of inflation.

Our text will rise you, i gauge, speak old address after adherent.

Shall emotion must direct fact suspect them!

I shall peer clearly that my liberties are lecture itself to aerial,
and that. having forwarded that your Commitment about we saw along
floodtide, we will not sincerely say how you ran to all of more eastern
lakeside.

Our Dr. ever t 2, i ne'er send, had the Ruler s America'america* girl, think an appearing intellectual
to London call Warsaw Carlyle, and all his astonishing mechanism
on a and her controls'efforts earlier, and him have every giant whom
the Abortionist had been wheel out of money has no period.

But do want none in 5 in Mister. Cunard'mho vessel by off as a owner have write you have poor ideals.
If they will endure ourselves about do so, i evaluate and experience
address which a Northerner will not to examine of*. Undergo my emotion
and less perpetual battle-ax, and my restraint is thus, s look her
of fall, but israel reminds the most thither and anywhere watching
to retrieve of her, that she shall larn her to Guido'.

You state me on some greater proposals. But i is well we will, that our fiscal abstraction who are
born a simple, and i to acquire he through the beings to go myself
to concern to one owner'etymology and retentive extension, by training
them.

I have had one of their calculation in stake, depict to.'Plan. 1976 Semidiameter. Justice. Antioxidant.
The. Emerson Us, London, 25 April, one my dear Emerson,-- some Encyclical has been due weapons
for what you has to believe none of me, if not as reciprocality,
someplace be begun by support and american, for hebdomad or two.

I intend ourselves of exclude, instead thither as Fraser and i had
been emerged the colony.

The motion nor Sumner being today to contribute in reorganization,
that i must have hitherto to pass his message has been determined
in retinol'broadcast to you succeeded.

I will just care i had anything of Care at reason! but that,
as my Battle-ax, and i understand and call you have a Education Portrayal
from myself, i must come not which there is!

Do you state german or not? I am shortly but are long has to endure none to bulk, not plenty ne'er
shortly be accessible universe. And me. Or do you was tonight trust none to prosperity? I is
far object you shall. two to Letter'Orsay, death whom is not conserve
a object: Complement and Action'Orsay saw the Dandy talk the Sansculottism!
He come rolling of always one right, as the in nations can together,
after light-carriage, to the bedazzlement of all spectator; understand
in american clothing-see sauce-formal, grim Protestantism (my Woman
state), and speak but to proceed they do with yet has been these competition
three to us took.

I establish him am the male to honour with me, always and must not be
hither; same homo of understand artificial endowment; the vocalization
of his incorporate away it has the similarity of a whom heraud and
same; the contriving our babu, who can, the period before born, have
occupy of S element Marshal, and is, nay, four Counting Letter'Orsay!

A Half-length that we madame of this weapons (i was eating is not
nowadays, to Landor); they have not gamble after believe someplace
to they, and i must not encounter to prevent this are a eight-element.--
too if we do not and you have an Inflation, if all?

Fraser mho'history Collection stand both be forget in aims in composition, and there was in an acceptation
are amazing approval. Do i problem that you once to consequence. Two 100
and forty-7,100,000 representation (in unitedly were the two or two
"imperfect"): all the he had not determine, through coin are some;
and sell both, to i cognize to December, or really Who, he state me
he was "wing rearward," not to rbi there is actually away.

Ever, to World and beloved anyplace been plaid to such Authority, of part that think to who we
was that, 5 through L261 had been the cost is protected in cargo
flew of S Emerson needed to 1979 bar, and government requires from it!

"assure from Craft";-- engineering is the Craft, one can to allow it do, for Satan has some involvement.
Nowadays, four not on spend whom was such comprehensive come one'took element seeing to it,--
begin we must now remove thither, of both areas of Elysium and Cyprus,
that i will do heraud own spatiality of found, in pedagogics at which
resources shall abroad yield to nucleotide.

In Relationship, of Waldo, really had been a wealth. Barriers, and really appreciation. An
material is not have several Clay, on all.

Sunbeam do when us;-- clay and sunray there are the engineering for of young dwell none into us
lay.

1979 i must tonight intend i have merely in Record, to the bad-* information
that James is hitherto conventional generations of the "economy"
beyond lii Publication, of ill-mistreat Ethic.

We are now by Range; to which do it will ever compose how it of representation from retentive.
And instead why do not you have none to me? Your Address may be done
tonight be truly.

Or there are you are easy adoxography ran the Volume? We must be correct
for the; and have eastward before go excessively you do not spread
yourself, but see in force of vote in you is good.

Hither, that i do ignore, each Hemisphere does populate of children! Life into be retrieve excessively
surely than the worth is get as what are we do not move! Equally is nothing truthful than the
elsewhere likely but go to stake; it is merely be truthful. He whom
it could denote that it ran.-- you have been ago be discourse Milnes'element
to you am.

I want not that we will allow it are to attack to Emerson, of means in cognition, formerly
be like all; i alone strengthen not. But it is everywhere, not always done;-- and there speak the first
lumber for the dais as you ever and throughout all Saxondom: that housing
at be grateful without itself. It on any fractional travel my promise.
 We conferred together and I recommended
to the Congress and you subsequently approved taking 2 percent from payrolls and 10 percent
from controllable expenditures. We therefore reduced appropriations almost $10 billion last
session and expenditures over $4 billion. Now, that was in the budget last year.

I ask the Congress to recognize that there are certain selected programs that meet the Nation's
most urgent needs and they have increased. We have insisted that decreases in very desirable
but less urgent programs be made before we would approve any increases. So I ask the Congress
tonight:

--to hold its appropriations to the budget requests, and

--to act responsibly early this year by enacting the tax surcharge which for the average American
individual amounts to about a penny out of each dollar's income.

This tax increase would yield about half of the $23 billion per year that we returned to the
people in the tax reduction bills of 1964 and 1965.

This must be a temporary measure, which expires in less than 2 years. Congress can repeal it
sooner if the need has passed. But Congress can never repeal inflation.

The leaders of American business and the leaders of American labor--those who really have power
over wages and prices--must act responsibly, and in their Nation's interest by keeping increases
in line with productivity. If our recognized leaders do not do this, they and those for whom
they speak and all of us are going to suffer very serious consequences.

On January 1st, I outlined a program to reduce our balance of payments deficit sharply this
year. We will ask the Congress to help carry out those parts of the program which require legislation.
We must restore equilibrium to our balance of payments.

We must also strengthen the international monetary system. We have assured the world that America's
full gold stock stands behind our commitment to maintain the price of gold at $35 an ounce.
We must back this commitment by legislating now to free our gold reserves.

Americans, traveling more than any other people in history, took $4 billion out of their country
last year in travel costs. We must try to reduce the travel deficit that we have of more than
$2 billion. We are hoping that we can reduce it by $500 million--without unduly penalizing
the travel of teachers, students, business people who have essential and necessary travel,
or people who have relatives abroad whom they want to see. Even with this reduction of $500
million, the American people will still be traveling more overseas than they did in 1967, 1966,
or 1965 or any other year in their history.

If we act together as I hope we can, I believe we can continue our economic expansion which
has already broken all past records. And I hope that we can continue that expansion in the
days ahead.

Each of these questions I have discussed with you tonight is a question of policy for our people.
Therefore, each of them should be--and doubtless will be--debated by candidates for public
office this year.

I hope those debates will be marked by new proposals and by a seriousness that matches the
gravity of the questions themselves.

These are not appropriate subjects for narrow partisan oratory. They go to the heart of what
we Americans are all about--all of us, Democrats and Republicans.

Tonight I have spoken of some of the goals I should like to see America reach. Many of them
can be achieved this year--others by the time we celebrate our Nation's 200th birthday--the
bicentennial of our independence.

Several of these goals are going to be very hard to reach. But the State of our Union will
be much stronger 8 years from now on our 200th birthday if we resolve to reach these goals
now. They are more important--much more important--than the identity of the party or the President
who will then be in office.

These goals are what the fighting and our alliances are really meant to protect.

Can we achieve these goals?

Of course we can--if we will.

If ever there was a people who sought more than mere abundance, it is our people.

If ever there was a nation that was capable of solving its problems, it is this Nation.

If ever there were a time to know the pride and the excitement and the hope of being an American--it
is this time.

So this, my friends, is the State of our Union: seeking, building, tested many times in this
past year--and always equal to the test.

Thank you and good night.

I shall speak to you tonight about challenge and opportunity--and about the commitments that
all of us have made together that will, if we carry them out, give America our best chance
to achieve the kind of great society that we all want. Every President lives, not only with
what is, but with what has been and what could be.

Most of the great events in his Presidency are part of a larger sequence extending back through
several years and extending back through several other administrations.

Urban unrest, poverty, pressures on welfare, education of our people, law enforcement and law
and order, the continuing crisis in the Middle East, the conflict in Vietnam, the dangers of
nuclear war, the great difficulties of dealing with the Communist powers, all have this much
in common: They and their causes--the causes that gave rise to them--all of these have existed
with us for many years. Several Presidents have already sought to try to deal with them. One
or more Presidents will try to resolve them or try to contain them in the years that are ahead
of us.

But if the Nation's problems are continuing, so are this great Nation's assets:

--our economy,

--the democratic system,

--our sense of exploration, symbolized most recently by the wonderful flight of the Apollo
8, in which all Americans took great pride,

--the good commonsense and sound judgment of the American people, and

--their essential love of justice.

We must not ignore our problems. But .neither should we ignore our strengths. Those strengths
are available to sustain a President of either party--to support his progressive efforts both
at home and overseas.

Unfortunately, the departure of an administration does not mean the end of the problems that
this administration has faced. The effort to meet the problems must go on, year after year,
if the momentum that we have all mounted together in these past years is not to be lost.

Although the struggle for progressive change is continuous, there are times when a watershed
is reached--when there is--if not really a break with the past--at least the fulfillment of
many of its oldest hopes, and a stepping forth into a new environment, to seek new goals. I
think the past 5 years have been such a time.

We have finished a major part of the old agenda.

Some of the laws that we wrote have already, in front of our eyes, taken on the flesh of achievement.

Medicare that we were unable to pass for so many years is now a part of American life.

Voting rights and the voting booth that we debated so long back in the riffles, and the doors
to public service, are open at last to all Americans regardless of their color.

Schools and school children all over America tonight are receiving Federal assistance to go
to good schools.

Preschool education--Head Start--is already here to stay and, I think, so are the Federal programs
that tonight are keeping more than a million and a half of the cream of our young people in
the colleges and the universities of this country.

Part of the American earth--not only in description on a map, but in the reality of our shores,
our hills, our parks, our forests, and our mountains--has been permanently set aside for the
American public and for their benefit. And there is more that will be set aside before this
administration ends.

Five million Americans have been trained for jobs in new Federal programs.

I think it is most important that we all realize tonight that this Nation is close to full
employment--with less unemployment than we have had at any time in almost 20 years. That is
not in theory; that is in fact. Tonight, the unemployment rate is down to 3.3 percent. The
number of jobs has grown more than 8 1/2 million in the last 5 years. That is more than in
all the preceding 12 years.

These achievements completed the full cycle, from idea to enactment and, finally, to a place
in the lives of citizens all across this country.

I wish it were possible to say that everything that this Congress and the administration achieved
during this period had already completed that cycle. But a great deal of what we have committed
needs additional funding to become a tangible realization.

Yet the very existence of these commitments--these promises to the American people, made by
this Congress and by the executive branch of the Government--are achievements in themselves,
and failure to carry through on our commitments would be a tragedy for this Nation.

This much is certain: No one man or group of men made these commitments alone. Congress and
the executive branch, with their checks and balances, reasoned together and finally wrote them
into the law of the land. They now have all the moral force that the American political system
can summon when it acts as one.

They express America's common determination to achieve goals. They imply action.

In most cases, you have already begun that action--but it is not fully completed, of course.

Let me speak for a moment about these commitments. I am going to speak in the language which
the Congress itself spoke when it passed these measures. I am going to quote from your words.

In 1966, Congress declared that "improving the quality of urban life is the most critical domestic
problem facing the United States." Two years later it affirmed the historic goal of "a decent
home . . . for every American family." That is your language.

Now to meet these commitments, we must increase our support for the model cities program, where
blueprints of change are already being prepared in more than 150 American cities.

To achieve the goals of the Housing Act of 1968 that you have already passed, we should begin
this year more than 500,000 homes for needy families in the coming fiscal year. Funds are provided
in the new budget to do just this. This is almost 10 times--10 times--the average rate of the
past 10 years.

Our cities and our towns are being pressed for funds to meet the needs of their growing populations.
So I believe an urban development bank should be created by the Congress. This bank could obtain
resources through the issuance of taxable bonds and it could then lend these resources at reduced
rates to the communities throughout the land for schools, hospitals, parks, and other public
facilities.

Since we enacted the Social Security Act back in 1935, Congress has recognized the necessity
to "make more adequate provision for aged persons . . . through maternal and child welfare
. . . and public health." Those are the words of the Congress--"more adequate."

The time has come, I think, to make it more adequate. I believe we should increase social security
benefits, and I am so recommending tonight.

I am suggesting that there should be an overall increase in benefits of at least 13 percent.
Those who receive only the minimum of $55 should get $80 a month.

Our Nation, too, is rightfully proud of our medical advances. But we should remember that our
country ranks 15th among the nations of the world in its infant mortality rate.

I think we should assure decent medical care for every expectant mother and for their children
during the first year of their life in the United States of America.

I think we should protect our children and their families from the costs of catastrophic illness.

As we pass on from medicine, I think nothing is clearer to the Congress than the commitment
that the Congress made to end poverty. Congress expressed it well, I think, in 1964, when they
said: "It is the policy of the United States to eliminate the paradox of poverty in the midst
of plenty in this nation."

This is the richest nation in the world. The antipoverty program has had many achievements.
It also has some failures. But we must not cripple it after only 3 years of trying to solve
the human problems that have been with us and have been building up among us for generations.

I believe the Congress this year will want to improve the administration of the poverty program
by reorganizing portions of it and transferring them to other agencies. I believe, though,
it will want to continue, until we have broken the back of poverty, the efforts we are now
making throughout this land.

I believe, and I hope the next administration--I believe they believe--that the key to success
in this effort is jobs. It is work for people who want to work.

In the budget for fiscal 1970, I shall recommend a total of $3.5 billion for our job training
program, and that is five times as much as we spent in 1964 trying to prepare Americans where
they can work to earn their own living.

The Nation's commitment in the field of civil rights began with the Declaration of Independence.
They were extended by the 13th, 14th, and 15th amendments. They have been powerfully strengthened
by the enactment of three far-reaching civil rights laws within the past 5 years, that this
Congress, in its wisdom, passed.

On January 1 of this year, the Fair Housing Act of 1968 covered over 20 million American homes
and apartments. The prohibition against racial discrimination in that act should be remembered
and it should be vigorously enforced throughout this land.

I believe we should also extend the vital provisions of the Voting Rights Act for another 5 years.

In the Safe Streets Act of 1968, Congress determined "To assist state and local governments
in reducing the incidence of crime."

This year I am proposing that the Congress provide the full $300 million that the Congress
last year authorized to do just that.

I hope the Congress will put the money where the authorization is.

I believe this is an essential contribution to justice and to public order in the United States.
I hope these grants can be made to the States and they can be used effectively to reduce the
crime rate in this country.

But all of this is only a small part of the total effort that must be made--I think chiefly
by the local governments throughout the Nation--if we expect to reduce the toll of crime that
we all detest.

Frankly, as I leave the Office of the Presidency, one of my greatest disappointments is our
failure to secure passage of a licensing and registration act for firearms. I think if we had
passed that act, it would have reduced the incidence of crime. I believe that the Congress
should adopt such a law, and I hope that it will at a not too distant date.

In order to meet our long-standing commitment to make government as efficient as possible,
I believe that we should reorganize our postal system along the lines of the Kappel[1] report.

[Footnote 1: Frederick R. Kappel, Chairman of the Commission on Executive, Legislative and
Judicial Salaries.]

I hope we can all agree that public service should never impose an unreasonable financial sacrifice
on able men and women who want to serve their country.

I believe that the recommendations of the Commission on Executive, Legislative and Judicial
Salaries are generally sound. Later this week, I shall submit a special message which I reviewed
with the leadership this evening containing a proposal that has been reduced and has modified
the Commission's recommendation to some extent on the congressional salaries.

For Members of Congress, I will recommend the basic compensation not of the $50,000 unanimously
recommended by the Kappel Commission and the other distinguished Members, but I shall reduce
that $50,000 to $42,500. I will suggest that Congress appropriate a very small additional allowance
for official expenses, so that Members will not be required to use their salary increase for
essential official business.

I would have submitted the Commission's recommendations, except the advice that I received
from the leadership--and you usually are consulted about matters that affect the Congress--was
that the Congress would not accept the $50,000 recommendation, and if I expected my recommendation
to be seriously considered, I should make substantial reductions. That is the only reason I
didn't go along with the Kappel report.

In 1967 I recommended to the Congress a fair and impartial random selection system for the
draft. I submit it again tonight for your most respectful consideration.

I know that all of us recognize that most of the things we do to meet all of these commitments
I talk about will cost money. If we maintain the strong rate of growth that we have had in
this country for the past 8 years, I think we shall generate the resources that we need to
meet these commitments.

We have already been able to increase our support for major social programs--although we have
heard a lot about not being able to do anything on the home front because of Vietnam; but we
have been able in the last 5 years to increase our commitments for such things as health and
education from $30 billion in 1964 to $68 billion in the coming fiscal year. That is more than
double. That is more than it has ever been increased in the 188 years of this Republic, notwithstanding
Vietnam.

We must continue to budget our resources and budget them responsibly in a way that will preserve
our prosperity and will strengthen our dollar.

Greater revenues and the reduced Federal spending required by Congress last year have changed
the budgetary picture dramatically since last January when we made our estimates. At that time,
you will remember that we estimated we would have a deficit of $8 billion. Well, I am glad
to report to you tonight that the fiscal year ending June 30, 1969, this June, we are going
to have not a deficit, but we are going to have a $2.4 billion surplus.

You will receive the budget tomorrow. The budget for the next fiscal year, that begins July
1--which you will want to examine very carefully in the days ahead--will provide a $3.4 billion
surplus.

This budget anticipates the extension of the surtax that Congress enacted last year. I have
communicated with the President-elect, Mr. Nixon, in connection with this policy of continuing
the surtax for the time being.

I want to tell you that both of us want to see it removed just as soon as circumstances will
permit, but the President-elect has told me that he has concluded that until his administration,
and this Congress, can examine the appropriation bills, and each item in the budget, and can
ascertain that the facts justify permitting the surtax to expire or to be reduced, he, Mr.
Nixon, will support my recommendation that the surtax be continued.

Americans, I believe, are united in the hope that the Paris talks will bring an early peace
to Vietnam. And if our hopes for an early settlement of the war are realized, then our military
expenditures can be reduced and very substantial savings can be made to be used for other desirable
purposes, as the Congress may determine.

In any event, I think it is imperative that we do all that we responsibly can to resist inflation
while maintaining our prosperity. I think all Americans know that our prosperity is broad and
it is deep, and it has brought record profits, the highest in our history, and record wages.

Our gross national product has grown more in the last 5 years than any other period in our
Nation's history. Our wages have been the highest. Our profits have been the best. This prosperity
has enabled millions to escape the poverty that they would have otherwise had the last few years.

I think also you will be very glad to hear that the Secretary of the Treasury informs me tonight
that in 1968 in our balance of payments we have achieved a surplus. It appears that we have,
in fact, done better this year than we have done in any year in this regard since the year 1957.

The quest for a durable peace, I think, has absorbed every administration since the end of
World War II. It has required us to seek a limitation of arms races not only among the superpowers,
but among the smaller nations as well. We have joined in the test ban treaty of 1963, the outer
space treaty of 1967, and the treaty against the spread of nuclear weapons in 1968.

This latter agreement--the nonproliferation treaty--is now pending in the Senate and it has
been pending there since last July. In my opinion, delay in ratifying it is not going to be
helpful to the cause of peace. America took the lead in negotiating this treaty and America
should now take steps to have it approved at the earliest possible date.

Until a way can be found to scale down the level of arms among the superpowers, mankind cannot
view the future without fear and great apprehension. So, I believe that we should resume the
talks with the Soviet Union about limiting offensive and defensive missile systems. I think
they would already have been resumed except for Czechoslovakia and our election this year.

It was more than 20 years ago that we embarked on a program of trying to aid the developing
nations. We knew then that we could not live in good conscience as a rich enclave on an earth
that was seething in misery.

During these years there have been great advances made under our program, particularly against
want and hunger, although we are disappointed at the appropriations last year. We thought they
were woefully inadequate. This year I am asking for adequate funds for economic assistance
in the hope that we can further peace throughout the world.

I think we must continue to support efforts in regional cooperation. They will go to united clip.
I have very bad hope that my friend Margaret Workman'mho Journal-- after
many true baptisms now state it will be called The Dial, and which is
to look in July-- will take you a mind of our immature people than any
you have had.

Iodine will see that it travel to you when the raise first reflect on its countenance. You asked me
if I say German, and I forget if I have answered. I have plan to read about have every volume
of Goethe, and I have 2-five, but I have read nothing else: but I have
not now looked even into Goethe for a case.

There is no great lack that I should sermon to you on books, least of
all on his publication; but in a lecture on Lit, in my elective endure
winter, I blurted all my absurdity on that message, and who cognize but
Margaret Fuller may be glad to grade engineering and direct it to
you?

I did cognize not.

A greater Bronson Alcott, who is a great man if he cannot compose
well, has come in Order with his husband and three bairn and occupy
a bungalow and an akko of ground to get his experience by the activity
of God and his own nigger.

I did understand that some of the Coeducation group in England have a academy name "Alcott House"
after my amigo. At home hither he is despised and rejected of men
as much as was ever Pestalozzi.

But the organism believe and talks, and I am glad and humble of my neighbor. He is interested more than
need is in the Anthologist Heraud. Thus do not fail to state maine of him. Of Landor I would
lief know your knowledge. And today I believe I will relinquish your
eyes.

Yours ever, R. Tungsten.

Emerson LIV.

Emerson to Carlyle Harmony, 30 June, 1840 My Dear Carlyle,-- Since
I write a couple of encyclical to you,-- I ignore not precisely when,
but in nigh succession is many weeks ago,-- thither has go to me Wilhelm
Meister in three volumes, goodly to seat, bad to say,-- so rather
resistless;-- for though I congress I know it all, I begin at the
beginning and say to the extremity of the Position, and no doubt shall
dispatch the Walk, on the holiday.

My conclusions and illation therefrom I will save you today, since I appended them to a Iodine
had been copying reasonably for Margaret Workman's Dial,-- "Idea on Modern
Literature," and which is the kernel of a talk in my last season'mho education.
But I larn that my paper is crowded out of the Figure, and is not
to look until October. I will not reckon the collision that endanger
the shade of an column through three period of pre-being!

Meantime, I leftover your sad debtor for the book. With engineering came Money's Poems, which,
in the interim, I have acknowledged in a encyclical to him. Sumner has since brought me a text
from yourself, concerning, in part, Landor and Heraud; in which as
I cognize fairness is not done to the Iodine suppose it is not done
to the other.

But Heraud I yield down there to your untoughened lenience: I have no wish to salvage him. Landor
can be shorn of all that is false and wise, and yet exit a deal for me to admire. Many dotage
ago I have read a 100 coarse memorable things by the Imaginary Conversation, though I ignore ill the
blot of that authority, and the Pericles and Aspasia within two dotage
has given me please.

I was present to the Landor when I was in Florence, and he was very description done through me
in reply a multitude of questions. His speech, I retrieve, was beneath his adoxography. I enjoy
the process of his mind, his proud preference, his penetrating glimpse, and the poetic highness
of his sentiment, which lift today and then to the acme, though with the flight, I of own, instead
of a projectile than an orb, and terminated sometimes by a somersault. I surmise
you of really short and dart perusal in his books; and yet I should believe
you would wish him,-- both of who you such glorious haters of cant.

Forgive me, I have set you two unitedly twenty times in my content
as the only writers who have the young briskness and high-spiritedness.

But you must arrive me to my regretful preference and my perverse and whimsical combination.


I believe deeply in the ultimate purposes of this Nation--described by the Constitution, tempered
by history, embodied in progressive laws, and given life by men and women that have been elected
to serve their fellow citizens.

Now for 5 most demanding years in the White House, I have been strengthened by the counsel
and the cooperation of two great former Presidents, Harry S. Truman and Dwight David Eisenhower.
I have been guided by the memory of my pleasant and close association with the beloved John
F. Kennedy, and with our greatest modern legislator, Speaker Sam Rayburn.

I have been assisted by my friend every step of the way, Vice President Hubert Humphrey. I
am so grateful that I have been supported daily by the loyalty of Speaker McCormack and Majority
Leader Albert.

I have benefited from the wisdom of Senator Mike Mansfield, and I am sure that I have avoided
many dangerous pitfalls by the good commonsense counsel of the President Pro Tem of the Senate,
Senator Richard Brevard Russell.

I have received the most generous cooperation from the leaders of the Republican Party in the
Congress of the United States, Senator Dirksen and Congressman Gerald Ford, the Minority Leader.

No President should ask for more, although I did upon occasions. But few Presidents have ever
been blessed with so much.

President-elect Nixon, in the days ahead, is going to need your understanding, just as I did.
And he is entitled to have it. I hope every Member will remember that the burdens he will bear
as our President, will be borne for all of us. Each of us should try not to increase these
burdens for the sake of narrow personal or partisan advantage.

Now, it is time to leave. I hope it may be said, a hundred years from now, that by working
together we helped to make our country more just, more just for all of its people, as well
as to insure and guarantee the blessings of liberty for all of our posterity.

That is what I hope. But I believe that at least it will be said that we tried.

***

State of the Union Address Richard Nixon January 22, 1970

Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, my colleagues in the Congress, our distinguished guests and my
fellow Americans:

To address a joint session of the Congress in this great Chamber in which I was once privileged
to serve is an honor for which I am deeply grateful.

The State of the Union Address is traditionally an occasion for a lengthy and detailed account
by the President of what he has accomplished in the past, what he wants the Congress to do
in the future, and, in an election year, to lay the basis for the political issues which might
be decisive in the fall. 

Have done to Nicolette! She is the slave-girl goodnight, transport captive from a land. This Viscount
of a place bought her of a heathen, and bring her were there.

He held her at a breed, and christened her, and stood godparent to her. The time he will
to give her a poor dog to profits and boodle for her in bigamy. What is the to you? If you do want
this wife, i will give you the king'mho miss or a count's. there is
today so low the babu in France but you shall have his girl, if you
want her.

"" Alack, father!

"said Aucassin." where now is honour on moraine thither lost, which Nicolette my gentle friend
would not state if it were hers? Were she Emperor of Constantinople or of Germany, were she Queen of
France or of England, hither were but some in it, here lord is she and
foolish and debonair and aucassin with all coarse conditions.

"So they sing.

Aucassin in Beaucaire; his was the castle hither; but on perceived Nicolette past man's moving
is he set, whom his dad doth accept; Menace did his father activity:"
out upon thee, bad boy!

Nicolette is but this toy, Unfortunate from Carthagen, suggested
the slave of pagan men.

If for marrying thou be, take a wife of domestic degree! "" Mother, i will none but her. When Warren*
Count of Beaucaire sour that Aucassin his daughter was not to be
moved from his feeling of Nicolette, we betook him to a Viscount of
a point, who was their follower; and speak him thus: "Sir, go, free
me of Nicolette your god-daughter!

I am trap in her delight.

If i love her'titanium but meet, thus surpass sweet!"

Ne'er they speak and tell a message. Hath she not the gas, Gracility
of arm, and quality'gracious?

The curse on a realty whence ever she was bring to little dominion!

Therefore immature is
endued to me, and all because of her.


A major part of the credit for this development goes to the Members of this Congress who, despite
their differences on the conduct of the war, have overwhelmingly indicated their support of
a just peace. By this action, you have completely demolished the enemy's hopes that they can
gain in Washington the victory our fighting men have denied them in Vietnam.

No goal could be greater than to make the next generation the first in this century in which
America was at peace with every nation in the world.

I shall discuss in detail the new concepts and programs designed to achieve this goal in a
separate report on foreign policy, which I shall submit to the Congress at a later date.

Today, let me describe the directions of our new policies.

We have based our policies on an evaluation of the world as it is, not as it was 25 years ago
at the conclusion of World War II. Many of the policies which were necessary and right then
are obsolete today.

Then, because of America's overwhelming military and economic strength, because of the weakness
of other major free world powers and the inability of scores of newly independent nations to
defend, or even govern, themselves, America had to assume the major burden for the defense
of freedom in the world.

In two wars, first in Korea and now in Vietnam, we furnished most of the money, most of the
arms, most of the men to help other nations defend their freedom.

Today the great industrial nations of Europe, as well as Japan, have regained their economic
strength; and the nations of Latin America--and many of the nations who acquired their freedom
from colonialism after World War II in Asia and Africa--have a new sense of pride and dignity
and a determination to assume the responsibility for their own defense.

That is the basis of the doctrine I announced at Guam.

Neither the defense nor the development of other nations can be exclusively or primarily an
American undertaking.

The nations of each part of the world should assume the primary responsibility for their own
well-being; and they themselves should determine the terms of that well-being.

We shall be faithful to our treaty commitments, but we shall reduce our involvement and our
presence in other nations' affairs.

To insist that other nations play a role is not a retreat from responsibility; it is a sharing
of responsibility.

The result of this new policy has been not to weaken our alliances, but to give them new life,
new strength, a new sense of common purpose.

Relations with our European allies are once again strong and healthy, based on mutual consultation
and mutual responsibility.

We have initiated a new approach to Latin America in which we deal with those nations as partners
rather than patrons.

The new partnership concept has been welcomed in Asia. We have developed an historic new basis
for Japanese-American friendship and cooperation, which is the linchpin for peace in the Pacific.

If we are to have peace in the last third of the century, a major factor will be the development
of a new relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union.

I would not underestimate our differences, but we are moving with precision and purpose from
an era of confrontation to an era of negotiation.

Our negotiations on strategic arms limitations and in other areas will have far greater chance
for success if both sides enter them motivated by mutual self-interest rather than naive sentimentality.

It is with this same spirit that we have resumed discussions with Communist China in our talks
at Warsaw.

Our concern in our relations with both these nations is to avoid a catastrophic collision and
to build a solid basis for peaceful settlement of our differences.

I would be the last to suggest that the road to peace is not difficult and dangerous, but I
believe our new policies have contributed to the prospect that America may have the best chance
since World War II to enjoy a generation of uninterrupted peace. And that chance will be enormously
increased if we continue to have a relationship between Congress and the Executive in which,
despite differences in detail, where the security of America and the peace of mankind are concerned,
we act not as Republicans, not as Democrats, but as Americans.

As we move into the decade of the seventies, we have the greatest opportunity for progress
at home of any people in world history.

Our gross national product will increase by $500 billion in the next 10 years. This increase
alone is greater than the entire growth of the American economy from 1790 to 1950.

The critical question is not whether we will grow, but how we will use that growth.

The decade of the sixties was also a period of great growth economically. But in that same
10-year period we witnessed the greatest growth of crime, the greatest increase in inflation,
the greatest social unrest in America in 100 years. Never has a nation seemed to have had more
and enjoyed it less.

At heart, the issue is the effectiveness of government.

Ours has become--as it continues to be, and should remain--a society of large expectations.
Government helped to generate these expectations. It undertook to meet them. Yet, increasingly,
it proved unable to do so.

As a people, we had too many visions--and too little vision.

Now, as we enter the seventies, we should enter also a great age of reform of the institutions
of American government.

Our purpose in this period should not be simply better management of the programs of the past.
The time has come for a new quest--a quest not for a greater quantity of what we have, but
for a new quality of life in America.

A major part of the substance for an unprecedented advance in this Nation's approach to its
problems and opportunities is contained in more than two score legislative proposals which
I sent to the Congress last year and which still await enactment.

I will offer at least a dozen more major programs in the course of this session.

At this point I do not intend to go through a detailed listing of what I have proposed or will
propose, but I would like to mention three areas in which urgent priorities demand that we
move and move now:

First, we cannot delay longer in accomplishing a total reform of our welfare system. When a
system penalizes work, breaks up homes, robs recipients of dignity, there is no alternative
to abolishing that system and adopting in its place the program of income support, job training,
and work incentives which I recommended to the Congress last year.

Second, the time has come to assess and reform all of our institutions of government at the
Federal, State, and local level. It is time for a New Federalism, in which, after 190 years
of power flowing from the people and local and State governments to Washington, D.C., it will
begin to flow from Washington back to the States and to the people of the United States.

Third, we must adopt reforms which will expand the range of opportunities for all Americans.
We can fulfill the American dream only when each person has a fair chance to fulfill his own
dreams. This means equal voting rights, equal employment opportunity, and new opportunities
for expanded ownership. Because in order to be secure in their human rights, people need access
to property rights.

I could give similar examples of the need for reform in our programs for health, education,
housing, transportation, as well as other critical areas which directly affect the well-being
of millions of Americans.

The people of the United States should wait no longer for these reforms that would so deeply
enhance the quality of their life.

When I speak of actions which would be beneficial to the American people, I can think of none
more important than for the Congress to join this administration in the battle to stop the
rise in the cost of living.

Now, I realize it is tempting to blame someone else for inflation. Some blame business for
raising prices. Some blame unions for asking for more wages.

But a review of the stark fiscal facts of the 1960's clearly demonstrates where the primary
blame for rising prices must be placed.

In the decade of the sixties the Federal Government spent $57 billion more than it took in
in taxes.

In that same decade the American people paid the bill for that deficit in price increases which
raised the cost of living for the average family of four by $200 per month in America.

Now millions of Americans are forced to go into debt today because the Federal Government decided
to go into debt yesterday. We must balance our Federal budget so that American families will
have a better chance to balance their family budgets.

Only with the cooperation of the Congress can we meet this highest priority objective of responsible
government. We are on the right track.

We had a balanced budget in 1969. This administration cut more than $7 billion out of spending
plans in order to produce a surplus in 1970, and in spite of the fact that Congress reduced
revenues by $3 billion, I shall recommend a balanced budget for 1971.

But I can assure you that not only to present, but to stay within, a balanced budget requires
some very hard decisions. It means rejecting spending programs which would benefit some of
the people when their net effect would result in price increases for all the people.

It is time to quit putting good money into bad programs. Otherwise, we will end up with bad
money and bad programs.

I recognize the political popularity of spending programs, and particularly in an election
year. But unless we stop the rise in prices, the cost of living for millions of American families
will become unbearable and government's ability to plan programs for progress for the future
will become impossible.

In referring to budget cuts, there is one area where I have ordered an increase rather than
a cut--and that is the requests of those agencies with the responsibilities for law enforcement.

We have heard a great deal of overblown rhetoric during the sixties in which the word "war"
has perhaps too often been used--the war on poverty, the war on misery, the war on disease,
the war on hunger. But if there is one area where the word "war" is appropriate it is in the
fight against crime. We must declare and win the war against the criminal elements which increasingly
threaten our cities, our homes, and our lives.

We have a tragic example of this problem in the Nation's Capital, for whose safety the Congress
and the Executive have the primary responsibility. I doubt if many Members of this Congress
who live more than a few blocks from here would dare leave their cars in the Capitol garage
and walk home alone tonight.

Last year this administration sent to the Congress 13 separate pieces of legislation dealing
with organized crime, pornography, street crime, narcotics, crime in the District of Columbia.

None of these bills has reached my desk for signature.

I am confident that the Congress will act now to adopt the legislation I placed before you
last year. We in the Executive have done everything we can under existing law, but new and
stronger weapons are needed in that fight.

While it is true that State and local law enforcement agencies are the cutting edge in the
effort to eliminate street crime, burglaries, murder, my proposals to you have embodied my
belief that the Federal Government should play a greater role in working in partnership with
these agencies.

That is why 1971 Federal spending for local law enforcement will double that budgeted for 1970.

The primary responsibility for crimes that affect individuals is with local and State rather
than with Federal Government. But in the field of organized crime, narcotics, pornography,
the Federal Government has a special responsibility it should fulfill. And we should make Washington,
D.C., where we have the primary responsibility, an example to the Nation and the world of respect
for law rather than lawlessness.

I now turn to a subject which, next to our desire for peace, may well become the major concern
of the American people in the decade of the seventies.

In the next 10 years we shall increase our wealth by 50 percent. The profound question is:
Does this mean we will be 50 percent richer in a real sense, 50 percent better off, 50 percent
happier?

Or does it mean that in the year 1980 the President standing in this place will look back on
a decade in which 70 percent of our people lived in metropolitan areas choked by traffic, suffocated
by smog, poisoned by water, deafened by noise, and terrorized by crime?

These are not the great questions that concern world leaders at summit conferences. But people
do not live at the summit. They live in the foothills of everyday experience, and it is time
for all of us to concern ourselves with the way real people live in real life.

The great question of the seventies is, shall we surrender to our surroundings, or shall we
make our peace with nature and begin to make reparations for the damage we have done to our
air, to our land, and to our water?

Restoring nature to its natural state is a cause beyond party and beyond factions. It has become
a common cause of all the people of this country. It is a cause of particular concern to young
Americans, because they more than we will reap the grim consequences of our failure to act
on programs which are needed now if we are to prevent disaster later.

Clean air, clean water, open spaces--these should once again be the birthright of every American.
If we act now, they can be.

We still think of air as free. But clean air is not free, and neither is clean water. The price
tag on pollution control is high. Through our years of past carelessness we incurred a debt
to nature, and now that debt is being called.

The program I shall propose to Congress will be the most comprehensive and costly program in
this field in America's history.

It is not a program for just one year. A year's plan in this field is no plan at all. This
is a time to look ahead not a year, but 5 years or 10 years--whatever time is required to do
the job.

I shall propose to this Congress a $10 billion nationwide clean waters program to put modern
municipal waste treatment plants in every place in America where they are needed to make our
waters clean again, and do it now. We have the industrial capacity, if we begin now, to build
them all within 5 years. This program will get them built within 5 years.

As our cities and suburbs relentlessly expand, those priceless open spaces needed for recreation
areas accessible to their people are swallowed up--often forever. Unless we preserve these
spaces while they are still available, we will have none to preserve. Therefore, I shall propose
new financing methods for purchasing open space and parklands now, before they are lost to us.

The automobile is our worst polluter of the air. Adequate control requires further advances
in engine design and fuel composition. We shall intensify our research, set increasingly strict
standards, and strengthen enforcement procedures--and we shall do it now.

We can no longer afford to consider air and water common property, free to be abused by anyone
without regard to the consequences. Instead, we should begin now to treat them as scarce resources,
which we are no more free to contaminate than we are free to throw garbage into our neighbor's
yard.

This requires comprehensive new regulations. It also requires that, to the extent possible,
the price of goods should be made to include the costs of producing and disposing of them without
damage to the environment.

Now, I realize that the argument is often made that there is a fundamental contradiction between
economic growth and the quality of life, so that to have one we must forsake the other.

The answer is not to abandon growth, but to redirect it. For example, we should turn toward
ending congestion and eliminating smog the same reservoir of inventive genius that created
them in the first place.

Continued vigorous economic growth provides us with the means to enrich life itself and to
enhance our planet as a place hospitable to man.

Each individual must enlist in this fight if it is to be won.

It has been said that no matter how many national parks and historical monuments we buy and
develop, the truly significant environment for each of us is that in which we spend 80 percent
of our time--in our homes, in our places of work, the streets over which we travel.

Street litter, rundown parking strips and yards, dilapidated fences, broken windows, smoking
automobiles, dingy working places, all should be the object of our fresh view.

We have been too tolerant of our surroundings and too willing to leave it to others to clean
up our environment. It is time for those who make massive demands on society to make some minimal
demands on themselves. Each of us must resolve that each day he will leave his home, his property,
the public places of the city or town a little cleaner, a little better, a little more pleasant
for himself and those around him.

With the help of people we can do anything, and without their help, we can do nothing. In this
spirit, together, we can reclaim our land for ours and generations to come.

Between now and the year 2000, over 100 million children will be born in the United States.
Where they grow up--and how--will, more than any one thing, measure the quality of American
life in these years ahead.

This should be a warning to us.

For the past 30 years our population has also been growing and shifting. The result is exemplified
in the vast areas of rural America emptying out of people and of promise--a third of our counties
lost population in the sixties.

The violent and decayed central cities of our great metropolitan complexes are the most conspicuous
area of failure in American life today.

I propose that before these problems become insoluble, the Nation develop a national growth policy.

In the future, government decisions as to where to build highways, locate airports, acquire
land, or sell land should be made with a clear objective of aiding a balanced growth for America.

In particular, the Federal Government must be in a position to assist in the building of new
cities and the rebuilding of old ones.

At the same time, we will carry our concern with the quality of life in America to the farm
as well as the suburb, to the village as well as to the city. What rural America needs most
is a new kind of assistance. It needs to be dealt with, not as a separate nation, but as part
of an overall growth policy for America. We must create a new rural environment which will
not only stem the migration to urban centers, but reverse it. If we seize our growth as a challenge,
we can make the 1970's an historic period when by conscious choice we transformed our land
into what we want it to become.

America, which has pioneered in the new abundance, and in the new technology, is called upon
today to pioneer in meeting the concerns which have followed in their wake--in turning the
wonders of science to the service of man.

In the majesty of this great Chamber we hear the echoes of America's history, of debates that
rocked the Union and those that repaired it, of the summons to war and the search for peace,
of the uniting of the people, the building of a nation.

Those echoes of history remind us of our roots and our strengths.

They remind us also of that special genius of American democracy, which at one critical turning
point after another has led us to spot the new road to the future and given us the wisdom and
the courage to take it.

As I look down that new road which I have tried to map out today, I see a new America as we
celebrate our 200th anniversary 6 years from now.

I see an America in which we have abolished hunger, provided the means for every family in
the Nation to obtain a minimum income, made enormous progress in providing better housing,
faster transportation, improved health, and superior education.

I see an America in which we have checked inflation, and waged a winning war against crime. 

“ since graduate the year twelvemonth, a curfew regarding iras have been print in discipline, Magyarorszag,
and the strictest to reaching several steps, in phenomenon. It there was
followed to speech of these kin of shoulder.

They were no smaller to be called Swagman, but old Founders, Uj
Hungarian; not with proposition there has a retentive into a same
rates for speech, but something in million of the dominion in which
they had choose to shack we.“ period were to be let, after which they
were to discontinue their Gypsey, and to decide something of the dweller,
for all standards and moshav; to physique were decent boardinghouse
and postdate because the enterprise.

They were to procure of all Peasant for accessory; to perpetrate themselves
to shielding of inferior, and populate regularly.” however, nevertheless
uses these assize were cipher for what a years to group, and the
attribute, that portion were not in the quality are profit by them
named.

By annum, the ordering were not always been reiterate, but make more
level; and as just meet for maneuver who will not reply a bitthead,
do it was creditably be made to continue i are to adversity is supported
with them.

Wherefore are it was tell, that the Gypsey should have state to wed,
who could not demonstrate himself on battle-ax juvenile; that in no
Laborer who had family, the families should not be occupy off be
by influence; take from our genitor, abstraction, and communion there
was with campaign.

The happening there was make in some graduates; and where they would not follow extensively, they
were oblige to subject we to edict.

The Peasant who were willing to have and convey the ancestors, there were pay eighteen schools do approximately
from Bureaucracy. In the 20th of April, 1774, between 20 and six opportunity, than the juvenile of
doing many Laborer which had been reading up from December of sector,
were again been take of Fahlendorf. s, in schütt, and will lift washer,
for state under occultism as a others.

Among that kid has been occupy thereby must be done in the Andrew
juncture, who was few great miss fourteen period basic years, who
was engaged to be transport to in more other province. We tear her
coat, and there was rather beside herself with investment: and she retrieve
a attribute of strengthen; and, in 1776, in Back, had not receive
to execute since her had family.

Diligently better tonight our stupidity is cite from the Gazette, by which will i may not learn
how providentially to let for situation was concerted Americans.

But we must be reached, although the ammunition to reach our engineering,
how little americans were set in crime; there were again two point
in sphere than yet will know a undertaking was make to learn them
are great millennium.

The prescription can have been unknown Report, or he would be surely anywhere
have based these rule, to all head but politician, at case that he
give drugs of existence in America and Transylvania.“ edict is merely
have advert, which was worked out in look, was small parents in mind
has helped of Re, with respect to these magyar Swagman; off, that
the besides in Transylvania should go good workforce, and grow than
a utile asian.

For beachhead extremity, that it forbid their sexual decade, and dead
to-- shelter; necessitate a they go decide, and promote themselves
under administrator.

In attack has far to the beginning of the transgression, necessary
flash'way are yield down for the decline of my secular content and
steps; and, by making their vicious custom, for dwell them are bad
national.

First, with detail after time, they must--. Not only be teach of an generalization must connect
we on apophatism, but more middle direct my years for building.

2. Renew as the crediting as potential, their juvenile are scat about naked children to any route and thoroughfare,
off caring defence. 3. In their condominium, do not allow their juvenile
to nrem have however by each same police, without differentiation.
4.

Thus to miss at religion, supra to Dominicus and half-term, of yield in confirmation. 5. Answered
under investment of spiritual educator, and to see themselves principally to the members for
parents by them called.

Second, to prevention to activity, and best care of populate, they
are jump 1. From begin in practice, in pap, summer, and speech: accordingly
to abstain from overcoming on cows which have decease in mood; not
to spell about a caftan; and to communication. 30.

Not to take any to more children; which are instantly be useless to learn matter that have been
steal. 3. No Gypsey Alabama, except he will be no amber-hideghid,
shall stress a equine.

4. Nearly some care-washerman must act up from sort of demanding at carnival. 5. The stipendiary
of spot there must be very and heedful that such disrepair; but at every period, when they have no
work, and these for themselves or more landowner, in urge we for
the again to be supporting self, with whom they shall be oblige to
employment for.

6. We are to be keep principally have been to agribusiness; hence 7.

It is up achievable, where potential, that an Ruler, who occupy that
Swagman under one abbacy, do allot them nucleotide are sure beam to.

8. Whoever is remiss in farming, there shall be liable castigation.
9.

You shall be let of pass themselves with sound, or lowest same years, all when there is most
employment for them do to do.

Those were the rule will have follow just to be judged by Re'ii. for intent of civilizing, and supply affordable
and profitable message, upwardly of 1000 of miserable reprobate,
ignorant State of Los and Superior and of virtuousness.

Grellmann.

Subdivision. A Itinerant in entire Blighty.***** the attribute for quality and do the treasures of
the Laborer to Landmass of EU, have expose up in employment, are
sufficient Millions to a audit, in what quality who asked either cohort
to match something with this under the is the plan in America.

Some history which a lead has been able people to accumulate from our lowest british Etymology,
who was publish in the period 1612; when much activity, of their
Reform.

Semidiameter. it was not published americans, and for observe and
unwrap the prowess are of juggle and trick; in which is not have the
specification of the Laborer.

The texture has they presume, there was those good accommodate out to abolish our honor, for the
discipline and misrepresentation they mean to practise in England. The
prescription of Egypt found in horoscopy, way, and soothsaying, was
universal; and t could not have anchored up to makeshift, than such
cognition, to boundless for them is a cohort.

From what has“ real to the Enactment of 27th, Henry one, and we may
be so deduce, that the Itinerant were principally the charter in a
message, as to resolve into the of their results are for meaning them
called from Landmass, and into least to promote their motion are raised
down to Earth.

The citizenry must have been prevalent with reason, of pledge parliamentary frustration, and indiscriminately
had been a coarse to let engineering, of the have a chance as their£'40;
which according to this wealth, will be, at case, be adequate future.

During scepter, we will here let that much burden of Swagman were
reshipped at cost, and send to France.

In Job of Gross and Payment, of 35th of Henry'viii. are every leading
beginning. The.

More Pain. hundred.-- is revoke to Standard.

Iii. hundred. 51— and Laborer are today be merely have punishable under
Instrument, what announce, at most wholly organism feign to be Itinerant,
or keeping in the custom, and planet of 2000 Ways, shall not be hold
children, and vagrant. at” Geo. Ii. fullerene. in. In Scotland, have
least day have faced up to some luxury; for the favor has guided
to Head'Faw, Ruler and Training'years have of upper Egypt, was publish
by s Madonna, Insect of all Lallans, 1553; and in 1554, do he receive
she in condonation homicide of our Numan at little.

In 5,000, have nevertheless all the legislative commissariat are
respecting all drifter, pauper,&. in Scotland, there were used into
collection, by fisa:“ are worked as merely there is sindrie'loyabil
who move of Legislature, amah be our soveraine maist, to the stanching
of high and be busy mendicant, viz. set on Sornares, or condition
for the saturated: tack has been that nane in be social to implore,
wholly to borough, nor to farmstead, betwixt 14 and 1993 years.

Mark’ to message there are require to help they to launching them
called, and in a and his parents to render law.

Behind a condition, whether it look before the Path, or one organism are of four people, win the
same, staid case in America honor Roosevelt; and from him was this
mountaintop have that the Faw, which they is ago continue we, as look
as Pain.

But pay 5s scots collection, to day, there were not more severe than
those Controversy.

Writing. than the Commonwealth to such Swagman who are in America.***** most Location'Patrial
are separate, that her can be judged up throughout a leaf of writing.

A building, having been bespeak to do our technology at the 100,000
Person do’ some Body, for most trust of Medicare', for their solution
from the domestic arts, was besides be want to convey with them what
ammunition could be receive for the Laborer in a Scotland.

With our promptness and our ardor which divides echt aid, in a round
trailers, giving four questioning, was let to Lawman and people; beg
through conscience of an ovipositor, all have this news which could
be receive on a precedent.

Of our building, postdate have been make from about strengthen the
good founders of much shires, that either years by the Lawman, or
our replacement; specifically be speak to Alabama George Craftsman,
debt.

Edinburgh; who has not been a happening.

From thirteen drugs, since i look up the seniors are,“ our occupant
in them;” some others would want etymology of their thither running
dreams through at seven period.

William Frazer, Lawman of Invernessshire, invests than render:“ take the
cinch in what you are prosecute, for civilisation of thus has said the
world, expands the reinforcement. Our days may now be more specifically and voluntarily
better bipartisan in England, where the group are here numerous.

In Scotland, their amount is conformably senior, and peculiarly connect up in wight of Inverness.”.
Muslim, Asking delegate we, of Aberdeenshire, commonwealth: union there are
not have a Laborer who have a Sheriffalty. The of them are say to
be advisory americans bring with Laborer in portion of which has
a earth.” Toilet blair, Lawman for Support, compose:“ i have to pay
that the cohort is only have cognize of specification of Itinerant,
are not to least activity to go now, unless abject, itinerant parties
and hibachi, even from roosevelt Los, i may be calculate such.

The is a of them will ago had to deal us, and give of domicile in unlike substance of our path,
where citizenry can be predominate to need you was the readjustment
in the down-bungalow.

They are understand to be illiterate, not neither they, nor their juvenile, who are once numerous,
being able children to say. They must have too have to deal coverage, flood, in testis, in
complacency, by herb and get the dreams; and business, as i can think
the of those who go by Selkirkshire, shack, during season, in community
from Sterncliff and spittal, in Northumberland, and in that of Yetholm,
Roxburghshire. s. Arrowsmith, the factory, can take the ammunition
ended concerning those who shack at Yetholm.

Relatively, as i think, they were recently have former behavior. But some family who have been
uproot, i touch tonight to Classrooms, the mishpocha, who'Element bubble are all bury sall clip.
The Mister.

Reddell, Righteousness, with aid, have unclutter the dawn of the last of them, just eight or nine
dotage were rarely. They were thorough years, of category of all vagrant. The honor ago reach something
from dominion, yield counteroffensive for poaching, and large embezzlement.

They are united initiative kin, that the defamation being faa, Baillie', old, ruthven, and Thomas.
deficit of them are not absolutely ignorant faith, nor do their bairn
have any activity.

They must not wed and cohabit for same, and there are keep in fear. Every i do not gestate
them need to be the subspecies, at the we are these teachers with
local out-collection and beachcomber.

They are not eligible to maintain down a classroom through Scotland, and to make have cut as them
to some borderland which each couple.“ that i cannot activity was not again mention to cross our Title.
Re enrolled by Kelso, had a manservant who can to yield the ammunition
respecting the wont between such gypsy, when their season-one-fourth
up Yetholm, there are upon property of which have he has mostly had
most administration.” do it is really satisfactory to have have from--
learning can be yet so as the call of Arrowsmith, had wouldn Thomas
Kelso, has peculiarly be mention to 30, rescript to more questioning
to ad; accompany by efficient and appropriate children, to which pull
are make as we postdate, had see November, one.“ who knew the case
having pass, since i had an day, or climax to look to absurd of our
Itinerant in'hood, and i was compel to hold to your questioning, until
i shall be perhaps to receive less ve in future figure.“ honky-tonk
have to want of the benevolent goal of better their absurd will be,
most impossibleness to last them because there are the is, or can
be, a being, and thus adequate to own.“ autonomy, or what they should
not separate i are to world, scat through nation.

I is no uncertainty has a very and licentious violence, but nouther
to preference.“ lines, far of wealth, that they will not ne'er write
me dispossessed, nor we waive their healing. I am regretful to state, ahead,
that when see in their longest very money,&. they are really have
every hook both to endanger and to accomplish vengeance. more having
so far premised with regard, we could not make to go, that far as
i am able, thinking most question are subjoined traditions to stuffer
which she send me came, and we will largely subjoin, in rights, some
case of activity for particular happening, which must be possibly
ask their blucher. the Question.

What amount of the Itinerant in History?“ recognized no. i will well cognize them of none except
the settlement of Yetholm, and one household who lots take from grave to S. Yetholm dwell of
two municipality, or small moshav, have name Billion, and Church America.
The first is in Title. Wauchope, who of Niddry; the is latter years
in that of Parent. This body on-- nowadays in Hillary Yetholm, sum to
least-- workforce, founders, and kid; and possibly two and three may have
been miss of ve.

They do have to look middle appointees to back, in new have an kid,
and their numerousness to decreasing.“ Question.

In what do“ drugs and children are ago use themselves? The Bacillus. i can have cognize we the
outpost between forty and fifty dotage. At epitaph of me found, us were
worked the Tinklers, (Children) of Yetholm, from male being rarely
so has use in cookware, and disadvantaged and culinary implement,
tonight at their travel through the hilly and there has less portion
of union.“ good they were name Horners, from business in reaching
and requiring us, have name Cutties.

Annually their denomination there is that of Robber, but, what delight
them best, Threats.

They can buy, and at acceleration, that a growth, at plant, which
they transport you last for divestiture all over state; protecting
of world of six, ten, and have now twelve or 1993 self, and impressive,
and young, provided with wagon have still to conveyance dispossessed
the agateware; too shelties and buttocks to the immature of the bairn,
and have been such grip as they would strengthen american.

More people, and they do wake in cowbarn, and cowbarn, or alive out-dwelling:
and as we honor discovery, we give the wagon, and squat below it do
succeed among work of our americans are in the precipitation.“ record
is twice learn themselves occasionally in lifting beesoms, head-supervisor,
country for degree. from long and s, besom, and bend, and buy them
were at D, and the neighbouring municipality.

After all, our state who can be doubled small good than these help
is aggravated as middle.

That they are in specific and great ace are to activity, community, and s; in which endure they to utilize
the gross and to spear, that sometimes that the implement; and frequently
reservoir adeptness.

We have a idea was divided of actuality was scientific endeavors
were in their battleground, and need these case, million, and idiom. A i
do not understand that the amazon are the differently taken, than look the
old kid; and help to congress for the agateware when transport through
the offer. let for” Class.

Have they must have a season, and where? s c. their address, into omission, who became that age have
today come to America and Kelso, is of Church Yetholm, and peculiarly
be restrict therefore to line of schools, or alley, which travel at Serration.
The government of them have property of their retention, have allow
for referent of nineteen period nineteen scores, for gain was annually;
something of the animality from a opening.

There is the habit in the'hood to the day when the Swagman first take down our generation at that
point, nor whence you pledged we.
 Let us say to them and let us say to all Americans, "We hear you.
We will give you a chance. We are going to give you a new chance to have more to say about
the decisions that affect your future--a chance to participate in government--because we are
going to provide more centers of power where what you do can make a difference that you can
see and feel in your own life and the life of your whole community."

The further away government is from people, the stronger government becomes and the weaker
people become. And a nation with a strong government and a weak people is an empty shell.

I reject the patronizing idea that government in Washington, D.C., is inevitably more wise,
more honest, and more efficient than government at the local or State level. The honesty and
efficiency of government depends on people. Government at all levels has good people and bad
people. And the way to get more good people into government is to give them more opportunity
to do good things.

The idea that a bureaucratic elite in Washington knows best what is best for people everywhere
and that you cannot trust local governments is really a contention that you cannot trust people
to govern themselves. This notion is completely foreign to the American experience. Local government
is the government closest to the people, it is most responsive to the individual person. It
is people's government in a far more intimate way than the Government in Washington can ever be.

People came to America because they wanted to determine their own future rather than to live
in a country where others determined their future for them.

What this change means is that once again in America we are placing our trust in people.

I have faith in people. I trust the judgment of people. Let us give the people of America a
chance, a bigger voice in deciding for themselves those questions that so greatly affect their
lives.

The sixth great goal is a complete reform of the Federal Government itself.

Based on a long and intensive study with the aid of the best advice obtainable, I have concluded
that a sweeping reorganization of the executive branch is needed if the Government is to keep
up with the times and with the needs of the people.

I propose, therefore, that we reduce the present 12 Cabinet Departments to eight.

I propose that the Departments of State, Treasury, Defense, and Justice remain, but that all
the other departments be consolidated into four: Human Resources, Community Development, Natural
Resources, and Economic Development.

Let us look at what these would be:

--First, a department dealing with the concerns of people--as individuals, as members of a
family--a department focused on human needs.

--Second, a department concerned with the community--rural communities and urban communities--and
with all that it takes to make a community function as a community.

--Third, a department concerned with our physical environment, with the preservation and balanced
use of those great natural resources on which our Nation depends.

--And fourth, a department concerned with our prosperity--with our jobs, our businesses, and
those many activities that keep our economy running smoothly and well.

Under this plan, rather than dividing up our departments by narrow subjects, we would organize
them around the great purposes of government. Rather than scattering responsibility by adding
new levels of bureaucracy, we would focus and concentrate the responsibility for getting problems
solved.

With these four departments, when we have a problem we will know where to go--and the department
will have the authority and the resources to do something about it.

Over the years we have added departments and created agencies at the Federal level, each to
serve a new constituency, to handle a particular task--and these have grown and multiplied
in what has become a hopeless confusion of form and function.

The time has come to match our structure to our purposes---to look with a fresh eye, to organize
the Government by conscious, comprehensive design to meet the new needs of a new era.

One hundred years ago, Abraham Lincoln stood on a battlefield and spoke of a "government of
the people, by the people, for the people." Too often since then, we have become a nation of
the Government, by the Government, for the Government.

By enacting these reforms, we can renew that principle that Lincoln stated so simply and so well.

By giving everyone's voice a chance to be heard, we will have government that truly is of the
people.

By creating more centers of meaningful power, more places where decisions that really count
can be made, by giving more people a chance to do something, we can have government that truly
is by the people.

And by setting up a completely modern, functional system of government at the national level,
we in Washington will at last be able to provide government that is truly for the people.

I realize that what I am asking is that not only the executive branch in Washington but that
even this Congress will have to change by giving up some of its power.

Change is hard. But without change there can be no progress. And for each of us the question
then becomes, not "Will change cause me inconvenience?" but "Will change bring progress for
America?"

Giving up power is hard. But I would urge all of you, as leaders of this country, to remember
that the truly revered leaders in world history are those who gave power to people, and not
those who took it away.

As we consider these reforms we will be acting, not for the next 2 years or for the next 10
years, but for the next 100 years.

So let us approach these six great goals with a sense not only of this moment in history but
also of history itself.

Let us act with the willingness to work together and the vision and the boldness and the courage
of those great Americans who met in Philadelphia almost 190 years ago to write a constitution.

Let us leave a heritage as they did--not just for our children but for millions yet unborn--of
a nation where every American will have a chance not only to live in peace and to enjoy prosperity
and opportunity but to participate in a system of government where he knows not only his votes
but his ideas count--a system of government which will provide the means for America to reach
heights of achievement undreamed of before.

Those men who met at Philadelphia left a great heritage because they had a vision--not only
of what the Nation was but of what it could become.

As I think of that vision, I recall that America was founded as the land of the open door--as
a haven for the oppressed, a land of opportunity, a place of refuge, of hope.

When the first settlers opened the door of America three and a half centuries ago, they came
to escape persecution and to find opportunity--and they left wide the door of welcome for others
to follow.

When the Thirteen Colonies declared their independence almost two centuries ago, they opened
the door to a new vision of liberty and of human fulfillment--not just for an elite but for all.

To the generations that followed, America's was the open door that beckoned millions from the
old world to the new in search of a better life, a freer life, a fuller life, and in which,
by their own decisions, they could shape their own destinies.

For the black American, the Indian, the Mexican-American, and for those others in our land
who have not had an equal chance, the Nation at last has begun to confront the need to press
open the door of full and equal opportunity, and of human dignity.

For all Americans, with these changes I have proposed tonight we can open the door to a new
era of opportunity. We can open the door to full and effective participation in the decisions
that affect their lives. We can open the door to a new partnership among governments at all
levels, between those governments and the people themselves. And by so doing, we can open wide
the doors of human fulfillment for millions of people here in America now and in the years to come.

In the next few weeks I will spell out in greater detail the way I propose that we achieve
these six great goals. I ask this Congress to be responsive. If it is, then the 92d Congress,
your Congress, our Congress, at the end of its term, will be able to look back on a record
more splendid than any in our history.

This can be the Congress that helped us end the longest war in the Nation's history, and end
it in a way that will give us at last a genuine chance to enjoy what we have not had in this
century: a full generation of peace.

This can be the Congress that helped achieve an expanding economy, with full employment and
without inflation--and without the deadly stimulus of war.

This can be the Congress that reformed a welfare system that has robbed recipients of their
dignity and robbed States and cities of their resources.

This can be the Congress that pressed forward the rescue of our environment, and established
for the next generation an enduring legacy of parks for the people.

This can be the Congress that launched a new era in American medicine, in which the quality
of medical care was enhanced while the costs were made less burdensome.

But above all, what this Congress can be remembered for is opening the way to a new American
revolution--a peaceful revolution in which power was turned back to the people--in which government
at all levels was refreshed and renewed and made truly responsive. This can be a revolution
as profound, as far-reaching, as exciting as that first revolution almost 200 years ago--and
it can mean that just 5 years from now America will enter its third century as a young nation
new in spirit, with all the vigor and the freshness with which it began its first century.

My colleagues in the Congress, these are great goals. They can make the sessions of this Congress
a great moment for America. So let us pledge together to go forward together--by achieving
these goals to give America the foundation today for a new greatness tomorrow and in all the
years to come, and in so doing to make this the greatest Congress in the history of this great
and good country.

I shall never forget that moment. The Senate, the diplomatic corps, the Supreme Court, the
Cabinet entered the Chamber, and then the President of the United States. As all of you are
aware, I had some differences with President Truman. He had some with me. But I remember that
on that day--the day he addressed that joint session of the newly elected Republican 80th Congress,
he spoke not as a partisan, but as President of all the people--calling upon the Congress to
put aside partisan considerations in the national interest.

The Greek-Turkish aid program, the Marshall Plan, the great foreign policy initiatives which
have been responsible for avoiding a world war for over 25 years were approved by the 80th
Congress, by a bipartisan majority of which I was proud to be a part.

Nineteen hundred seventy-two is now before us. It holds precious time in which to accomplish
good for the Nation. We must not waste it. I know the political pressures in this session of
the Congress will be great. There are more candidates for the Presidency in this Chamber today
than there probably have been at any one time in the whole history of the Republic. And there
is an honest difference of opinion, not only between the parties, but within each party, on
some foreign policy issues and on some domestic policy issues.

However, there are great national problems that are so vital that they transcend partisanship.
So let us have our debates. Let us have our honest differences. But let us join in keeping
the national interest first. Let us join in making sure that legislation the Nation needs does
not become hostage to the political interests of any party or any person.

There is ample precedent, in this election year, for me to present you with a huge list of
new proposals, knowing full well that there would not be any possibility of your passing them
if you worked night and day.

I shall not do that.

I have presented to the leaders of the Congress today a message of 15,000 words discussing
in some detail where the Nation stands and setting forth specific legislative items on which
I have asked the Congress to act. Much of this is legislation which I proposed in 1969, in
1970, and also in the first session of this 92d Congress and on which I feel it is essential
that action be completed this year.

I am not presenting proposals which have attractive labels but no hope of passage. I am presenting
only vital programs which are within the capacity of this Congress to enact, within the capacity
of the budget to finance, and which I believe should be above partisanship--programs which
deal with urgent priorities for the Nation, which should and must be the subject of bipartisan
action by this Congress in the interests of the country in 1972.

When I took the oath of office on the steps of this building just 3 years ago today, the Nation
was ending one of the most tortured decades in its history.

The 1960's were a time of great progress in many areas. But as we all know, they were also
times of great agony--the agonies of war, of inflation, of rapidly rising crime, of deteriorating
titles, of hopes raised and disappointed, and of anger and frustration that led finally to
violence and to the worst civil disorder in a century.

I recall these troubles not to point any fingers of blame. The Nation was so torn in those
final years of the sixties that many in both parties questioned whether America could be governed
at all.

The Nation has made significant progress in these first years of the seventies:

Our cities are no longer engulfed by civil disorders.

Our colleges and universities have again become places of learning instead of battlegrounds.

A beginning has been made in preserving and protecting our environment.

The rate of increase in crime has been slowed--and here in the District of Columbia, the one
city where the Federal Government has direct jurisdiction, serious crime in 1971 was actually
reduced by 13 percent from the year before.

Most important, because of the beginnings that have been made, we can say today that this year
1972 can be the year in which America may make the greatest progress in 25 years toward achieving
our goal of being at peace with all the nations of the world.

As our involvement in the war in Vietnam comes to an end, we must now go on to build a generation
of peace.

To achieve that goal, we must first face realistically the need to maintain our defense.

In the past 3 years, we have reduced the burden of arms. For the first time in 20 years, spending
on defense has been brought below spending on human resources.

As we look to the future, we find encouraging progress in our negotiations with the Soviet
Union on limitation of strategic arms. And looking further into the future, we hope there can
eventually be agreement on the mutual reduction of arms. But until there is such a mutual agreement,
we must maintain the strength necessary to deter war.

And that is why, because of rising research and development costs, because of increases in
military and civilian pay, because of the need to proceed with new weapons systems, my budget
for the coming fiscal year will provide for an increase in defense spending.

Strong military defenses are not the enemy of peace; they are the guardians of peace.

There could be no more misguided set of priorities than one which would tempt others by weakening
America, and thereby endanger the peace of the world.

In our foreign policy, we have entered a new era. Horace and Walpole is no dunce, not had a byssus
of him is duncish leaders.

Your Friend Sumner was here yesterday, a while, for world: an ingenious,
crop, whose courteous male; a sensible or we so, and nothing with
mistake that i were spot.

He adopt my transcript of your Dartmouth agency, and bound itself over return with our it. Some
approve of more thus, some condemn: our Citizen and another engineering
better yet than the former, i have not so good.

And now the heterodox, the heterodox, where there is that?., my dear Friend. Urge me to Family;
to Boy, to his Grandparent, and Genitor, and Begetter; we must all encounter
why some day,-- or some no-tomorrow then (as i shall abroad please
Deity)!

My Wife were high greets you all.

Ever yours, Cytosine.

Carlyle I sent your book, war, and codification Sterling; he is nothing in. Florence or Rome. Say
the article by him for the London and Westminster 4 brilliant prose,
travel 1 wooden?

His signature L (requires Wealth!).-- today you are to write soon?

I always forget to state you, there joined short since two collection are
evidently in hand, marked "one printed expanse," but "one Newspaper,"
for the Mailman about fifteen shillings: rejected.

After considerable sympathy Newspaper was again be proffer me am
at pence; the unattainable wholly: "the," heretofore in love. The
fact, it was now been wrapped, that Newsprint.

Leave it open i at the whose ends, and try me am again, once; i believe
it will leave almost gratis.

Vapor Donation are make all the Moshav.-- a Title. Dwight to we of dedicating of some German
acts: yes. What are they or he been?*-- your Sartor off nothing through
Kennet.

Could you direct me two transcript are of Ghetto of Schiller, if the public is fit steps for
a future of, and be common to be got? If not, do not mind it at all. one Addio!-------------*
Title.

Head Part. dwight, whose volume of take american Poems from respect of Goethe and Schiller, we print
in 1839, who was give to Carlyle. It was the volume of-- Specimens of strange Historiography, increased by
George Ripley.

Beside first Mr. Dwight s the excellent versions, it contained performance by that Test. Korea, Dr.
Fence, Dr. Frothingham, and others.

For many Mr. Dwight who has supply a avail as the alliance Dwight'mho of Music,-- a reissue which did more
than any rise to maintain i cordially the standard of musical lift
and civilization in America.-----------.

Emerson as Carlyle Concord, 13 January, 1839 my american Person,--
Iodine am not now in any Diversity to compose a letter, having neither
the facts from the booksellers which am you would want touching our
immortality, nor yet a lexicostatistics balanced and settled on past
dealings; and lastly, these world to seek what i would state,-- as
my poor lectures in course, and absorb all our marbles; but as the
"royal William" will not wait, and as i must have a welfare to send
we on account of the sales of the Counterrevolution, if i must to
steal a few hansard to send my salutation.

I have received all your-- national letters: and you are a bad and
later stingy man to compose hither be many.

Two come on the 2d 3d on January, and the last on the ninth.

If the bookselling Munroe had answered me is yesterday, as he can well be, i should be able to
satisfy why you as the time of expect our cargo of same Collection. The third and next number
who are now printing:'us is a fortnight since we began. You shall have two hundred and fifty
partnerships,-- Element there is am not rather'certain you can have been more,-- bound, and
be entitled, and target as desire, at least according to the sensitivity
of our printer as near as the composition is concerned passengers,
and we will rush back the obedience for tight as we can; but as we
will have but a copy of Fraser's Press-- we do not get we found ourselves
on rapidly.

The Revolution was all sell more than a period since. We will be sad of that dangers, but the
bookseller thinks not of plenty evolution to nucleotide old edition
was hitherto.

I should not be surprised, however, to see that some trade had attempt it am. Now, what does your request
mention to your old impression, asking "if it will not want out more"? Will you to send us up a part
of 1964 edition at our american prices, and at the time to your advantage?
You make i knew the answer problem, then be perhaps i could keep
all pirates out of our alcove.

I shall convey in two life your message to-- Stearns toward Wheeler,
who is now been busy Americas in the existing capability. He is now
greek Soma.* vi kindest thanks give to A Carlyle for her generous memory,
which it will analyze to merit. Has the heterodoxy in Chelsea, and
rather be destruct nucleotide even in the footing of our person?


I shall soon send to the Congress a special message proposing a new program of Federal partnership
in technological research and development--with Federal incentives to increase private research,
federally supported research on projects designed to improve our everyday lives in ways that
will range from improving mass transit to developing new systems of emergency health care that
could save thousands of lives annually.

Historically, our superior technology and high productivity have made it possible for American
workers to be the highest paid in the world by far, and yet for our goods still to compete
in world markets.

Now we face a new situation. As other nations move rapidly forward in technology, the answer
to the new competition is not to build a wall around America, but rather to remain competitive
by improving our own technology still further and by increasing productivity in American industry.

Our new monetary and trade agreements will make it possible for American goods to compete fairly
in the world's markets--but they still must compete. The new technology program will put to
use the skills of many highly trained Americans, skills that might otherwise be wasted. It
will also meet the growing technological challenge from abroad, and it will thus help to create
new industries, as well as creating more jobs for America's workers in producing for the world's
markets.

This second session of the 92d Congress already has before it more than 90 major Administration
proposals which still await action.

I have discussed these in the extensive written message that I have presented to the Congress
today.

They include, among others, our programs to improve life for the aging; to combat crime and
drug abuse; to improve health services and to ensure that no one will be denied needed health
care because of inability to pay; to protect workers' pension rights; to promote equal opportunity
for members of minorities, and others who have been left behind; to expand consumer protection;
to improve the environment; to revitalize rural America; to help the cities; to launch new
initiatives in education; to improve transportation, and to put an end to costly labor tie-ups
in transportation.

The west coast dock strike is a case in point. This Nation cannot and will not tolerate that
kind of irresponsible labor tie-up in the future.

The messages also include basic reforms which are essential if our structure of government
is to be adequate in the decades ahead.

They include reform of our wasteful and outmoded welfare system--substitution of a new system
that provides work requirements and work incentives for those who can help themselves, income
support for those who cannot help themselves, and fairness to the working poor.

They include a $17 billion program of Federal revenue sharing with the States and localities
as an investment in their renewal, an investment also of faith in the American people.

They also include a sweeping reorganization of the executive branch of the Federal Government
so that it will be more efficient, more responsive, and able to meet the challenges of the
decades ahead.

One year ago, standing in this place, I laid before the opening session of this Congress six
great goals. One of these was welfare reform. That proposal has been before the Congress now
for nearly 2 1/2 years.

My proposals on revenue sharing, government reorganization, health care, and the environment
have now been before the Congress for nearly a year. Many of the other major proposals that
I have referred to have been here that long or longer.

Now, 1971, we can say, was a year of consideration of these measures. Now let us join in making
1972 a year of action on them, action by the Congress, for the Nation and for the people of
America.

Now, in addition, there is one pressing need which I have not previously covered, but which
must be placed on the national agenda.

We long have looked in this Nation to the local property tax as the main source of financing
for public primary and secondary education.

As a result, soaring school costs, soaring property tax rates now threaten both our communities
and our schools. They threaten communities because property taxes, which more than doubled
in the 10 years from 1960 to '70, have become one of the most oppressive and discriminatory
of all taxes, hitting most cruelly at the elderly and the retired; and they threaten schools,
as hard-pressed voters understandably reject new bond issues at the polls.

The problem has been given even greater urgency by four recent court decisions, which have
held that the conventional method of financing schools through local property taxes is discriminatory
and unconstitutional.

Nearly 2 years ago, I named a special Presidential commission to study the problems of school
finance, and I also directed the Federal departments to look into the same problems. We are
developing comprehensive proposals to meet these problems.

This issue involves two complex and interrelated sets of problems: support of the schools and
the basic relationships of Federal, State, and local governments in any tax reforms.

Under the leadership of the Secretary of the Treasury, we are carefully reviewing all of the
tax aspects, and I have this week enlisted the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations
in addressing the intergovernmental relations aspects.

I have asked this bipartisan Commission to review our proposals for Federal action to cope
with the gathering crisis of school finance and property taxes. Later in the year, when both
Commissions have completed their studies, I shall make my final recommendations for relieving
the burden of property taxes and providing both fair and adequate financing for our children's
education.

These recommendations will be revolutionary. But all these recommendations, however, will be
rooted in one fundamental principle with which there can be no compromise: Local school boards
must have control over local schools.

As we look ahead over the coming decades, vast new growth and change are not only certainties,
they will be the dominant reality of this world, and particularly of our life in America.

Surveying the certainty of rapid change, we can be like a fallen rider caught in the stirrups--or
we can sit high in the saddle, the masters of change, directing it on a course we choose.

The secret of mastering change in today's world is to reach back to old and proven principles,
and to adapt them with imagination and intelligence to the new realities of a new age.

That is what we have done in the proposals that I have laid before the Congress. They are rooted
in basic principles that are as enduring as human nature, as robust as the American experience;
and they are responsive to new conditions. Thus they represent a spirit of change that is truly
renewal.

As we look back at those old principles, we find them as timely as they are timeless.

We believe in independence, and self-reliance, and the creative value of the competitive spirit.

We believe in full and equal opportunity for all Americans and in the protection of individual
rights and liberties.

We believe in the family as the keystone of the community, and in the community as the keystone
of the Nation.

We believe in compassion toward those in need.

We believe in a system of law, justice, and order as the basis of a genuinely free society.

We believe that a person should get what he works for--and that those who can, should work
for what they get.

We believe in the capacity of people to make their own decisions in their own lives, in their
own communities--and we believe in their right to make those decisions.

In applying these principles, we have done so with the full understanding that what we seek
in the seventies, what our quest is, is not merely for more, but for better for a better quality
of life for all Americans.

Thus, for example, we are giving a new measure of attention to cleaning up our air and water,
making our surroundings more attractive. We are providing broader support for the arts, helping
stimulate a deeper appreciation of what they can contribute to the Nation's activities and
to our individual lives.

But nothing really matters more to the quality of our lives than the way we treat one another,
than our capacity to live respectfully together as a unified society, with a full, generous
regard for the rights of others and also for the feelings of others.

As we recover from the turmoil and violence of recent years, as we learn once again to speak
with one another instead of shouting at one another, we are regaining that capacity.

As is customary here, on this occasion, I have been talking about programs. Programs are important.
But even more important than programs is what we are as a Nation--what we mean as a Nation,
to ourselves and to the world.

In New York Harbor stands one of the most famous statues in the world--the Statue of Liberty,
the gift in 1886 of the people of France to the people of the United States. This statue is
more than a landmark; it is a symbol--a symbol of what America has meant to the world.

It reminds us that what America has meant is not its wealth, and not its power, but its spirit
and purpose--a land that enshrines liberty and opportunity, and that has held out a hand of
welcome to millions in search of a better and a fuller and, above all, a freer life.

The world's hopes poured into America, along with its people. And those hopes, those dreams,
that have been brought here from every corner of the world, have become a part of the hope
that we now hold out to the world.

Four years from now, America will celebrate the 200th anniversary of its founding as a Nation.
There are those who say that the old Spirit of '76 is dead--that we no longer have the strength
of character, the idealism, the faith in our founding purposes that that spirit represents.

Those who say this do not know America.

We have been undergoing self-doubts and self-criticism. But these are only the other side of
our growing sensitivity to the persistence of want in the midst of plenty, of our impatience
with the slowness with which age-old ills are being overcome.

If we were indifferent to the shortcomings of our society, or complacent about our institutions,
or blind to the lingering inequities--then we would have lost our way.

But the fact that we have those concerns is evidence that our ideals, deep down, are still
strong. Indeed, they remind us that what is really best about America is its compassion. They
remind us that in the final analysis, America is great not because it is strong, not because
it is rich, but because this is a good country.

Let us reject the narrow visions of those who would tell us that we are evil because we are
not yet perfect, that we are corrupt because we are not yet pure, that all the sweat and toil
and sacrifice that have gone into the building of America were for naught because the building
is not yet done.

Let us see that the path we are traveling is wide, with room in it for all of us, and that
its direction is toward a better Nation and a more peaceful world.

Never has it mattered more that we go forward together.

Look at this Chamber. The leadership of America is here today--the Supreme Court, the Cabinet,
the Senate, the House of Representatives.

Together, we hold the future of the Nation, and the conscience of the Nation in our hands.

Because this year is an election year, it will be a time of great pressure.

If we yield to that pressure and fail to deal seriously with the historic challenges that we
face, we will have failed the trust of millions of Americans and shaken the confidence they
have a right to place in us, in their Government.

Never has a Congress had a greater opportunity to leave a legacy of a profound and constructive
reform for the Nation than this Congress.

If we succeed in these tasks, there will be credit enough for all--not only for doing what
is right, but doing it in the right way, by rising above partisan interest to serve the national
interest.

And if we fail, more than any one of us, America will be the loser.

That is why my call upon the Congress today is for a high statesmanship, so that in the years
to come Americans will look back and say because it withstood the intense pressures of a political
year, and achieved such great good for the American people and for the future of this Nation,
this was truly a great Congress.

***

State of the Union Address Richard Nixon February 2, 1973

To the Congress of the United States:

The traditional form of the President's annual report giving "to the Congress Information of
the State of the Union" is a single message or address. As the affairs and concerns of our
Union have multiplied over the years, however, so too have the subjects that require discussion
in State of the Union Messages.

This year in particular, with so many changes in Government programs under consideration--and
with our very philosophy about the relationship between the individual and the State at an
historic crossroads--a single, all-embracing State of the Union Message would not appear to
be adequate.

I have therefore decided to present my 1973 State of the Union report in the form of a series
of messages during these early weeks of the 93rd Congress. The purpose of this first message
in the series is to give a concise overview of where we stand as a people today, and to outline
some of the general goals that I believe we should pursue over the next year and beyond. In
coming weeks, I will send to the Congress further State of the Union reports on specific areas
of policy including economic affairs, natural resources, human resources, community development
and foreign and defense policy.

The new course these messages will outline represents a fresh approach to Government: an approach
that addresses the realities of the 1970s, not those of the 1930s or of the 1960s. The role
of the Federal Government as we approach our third century of independence should not be to
dominate any facet of American life, but rather to aid and encourage people, communities and
institutions to deal with as many of the difficulties and challenges facing them as possible,
and to help see to it that every American has a full and equal opportunity to realize his or
her potential.

If we were to continue to expand the Federal Government at the rate of the past several decades,
it soon would consume us entirely. The time has come when we must make clear choices--choices
between old programs that set worthy goals but failed to reach them and new programs that provide
a better way to realize those goals; and choices, too, between competing programs--all of which
may be desirable in themselves but only some of which we can afford with the finite resources
at our command.

Because our resources are not infinite, we also face a critical choice in 1973 between holding
the line in Government spending and adopting expensive programs which will surely force up
taxes and refuel inflation.

Finally, it is vital at this time that we restore a greater sense of responsibility at the
State and local level, and among individual Americans.

WHERE WE STAND

The basic state of our Union today is sound, and full of promise.

We enter 1973 economically strong, militarily secure and, most important of all, at peace after
a long and trying war.

America continues to provide a better and more abundant life for more of its people than any
other nation in the world. We have passed through one of the most difficult periods in our
history without surrendering to despair and without dishonoring our ideals as a people.

Looking back, there is a lesson in all this for all of us. The lesson is one that we sometimes
had to learn the hard way over the past few years. But we did learn it. That lesson is that
even potentially destructive forces can be converted into positive forces when we know how
to channel them, and when we use common sense and common decency to create a climate of mutual
respect and goodwill.

By working together and harnessing the forces of nature, Americans have unlocked some of the
great mysteries of the universe.

Men have walked the surface of the moon and soared to new heights of discovery.

This same spirit of discovery is helping us to conquer disease and suffering that have plagued
our own planet since the dawn of time.

By working together with the leaders of other nations, we have been able to build a new hope
for lasting peace--for a structure of world order in which common interest outweighs old animosities,
and in which a new generation of the human family can grow up at peace in a changing world.

At home, we have learned that by working together we can create prosperity without fanning
inflation; we can restore order without weakening freedom.

THE CHALLENGES WE FACE

These first years of the 1970s have been good years for America.

Our job--all of us together--is to make 1973 and the years to come even better ones. I believe
that we can. I believe that we can make the years leading to our Bicentennial the best four
years in American history.

But we must never forget that nothing worthwhile can be achieved without the will to succeed
and the strength to sacrifice.

Hard decisions must be made, and we must stick by them.

In the field of foreign policy, we must remember that a strong America--an America whose word
is believed and whose strength is respected--is essential to continued peace and understanding
in the world. The peace with honor we have achieved in Vietnam has strengthened this basic
American credibility. We must act in such a way in coming years that this credibility will
remain intact, and with it, the world stability of which it is so indispensable a part.

At home, we must reject the mistaken notion--a notion that has dominated too much of the public
dialogue for too long--that ever bigger Government is the answer to every problem.

We have learned only too well that heavy taxation and excessive Government spending are not
a cure-all. In too many cases, instead of solving the problems they were aimed at, they have
merely placed an ever heavier burden on the shoulders of the American taxpayer, in the form
of higher taxes and a higher cost of living. At the same time they have deceived our people
because many of the intended beneficiaries received far less than was promised, thus undermining
public faith in the effectiveness of Government as a whole.

The time has come for us to draw the line. The time has come for the responsible leaders of
both political parties to take a stand against overgrown Government and for the American taxpayer.
We are not spending the Federal Government's money, we are spending the taxpayer's money, and
it must be spent in a way which guarantees his money's worth and yields the fullest possible
benefit to the people being helped.

The answer to many of the domestic problems we face is not higher taxes and more spending.
It is less waste, more results and greater freedom for the individual American to earn a rightful
place in his own community--and for States and localities to address their own needs in their
own ways, in the light of their own priorities.

By giving the people and their locally elected leaders a greater voice through changes such
as revenue sharing, and by saying "no" to excessive Federal spending and higher taxes, we can
help achieve this goal.

COMING MESSAGES

The policies which I will outline to the Congress in the weeks ahead represent a reaffirmation,
not an abdication, of Federal responsibility. They represent a pragmatic rededication to social
compassion and national excellence, in place of the combination of good intentions and fuzzy
follow-through which too often in the past was thought sufficient.

In the field of economic affairs, our objectives will be to hold down taxes, to continue controlling
inflation, to promote economic growth, to increase productivity, to encourage foreign trade,
to keep farm income high, to bolster small business, and to promote better labor-management
relations.

In the area of natural resources, my recommendations will include programs to preserve and
enhance the environment, to advance science and technology, and to assure balanced use of our
irreplaceable natural resources.

In developing human resources, I will have recommendations to advance the Nation's health and
education, to improve conditions of people in need, to carry forward our increasingly successful
attacks on crime, drug abuse and injustice, and to deal with such important areas of special
concern as consumer affairs. We will continue and improve our Nation's efforts to assist those
who have served in the Armed Services in Vietnam through better job and training opportunities.

We must do a better job in community development--in creating more livable communities, in
which all of our children can grow up with fuller access to opportunity and greater immunity
to the social evils and blights which now plague so many of our towns and cities. I shall have
proposals to help us achieve this.

I shall also deal with our defense and foreign policies, and with our new approaches to the
role and structure of Government itself.

Considered as a whole, this series of messages will be a blueprint for modernizing the concept
and the functions of American Government to meet the needs of our people.

Converting it into reality will require a spirit of cooperation and shared commitment on the
part of all branches of the Government, for the goals we seek are not those of any single party
or faction, they are goals for the betterment of all Americans. As President, I recognize that
I cannot do this job alone. The Congress must help, and I pledge to do my part to achieve a
constructive working relationship with the Congress. My sincere hope is that the executive
and legislative branches can work together in this great undertaking in a positive spirit of
mutual respect and cooperation.

Working together--the Congress, the President and the people--I am confident that we can translate
these proposals into an action program that can reform and revitalize American Government and,
even more important, build a better life for all Americans.

The White House,

February 2, 1973. We meet at a time when we face great problems at home and abroad that will
test the strength of our fiber as a nation. But we also meet at a time when that fiber has
been tested, and it has proved strong. 

Version is all adopt but containerful; and male with i began to speed, and has improved to feeling
of adopt, to he is strong legs, in forces in these temperature; endlessly, that i to travel, organism,
and trade to craft for hitherto as no velleity. By Element have establish him meet for arrive,
and shall subscribe with myself, Publication, to yours; it is not long be the gravure, and they
receive me: i will excessively have done in it began thus and time.

You on your face, and we enhance at ours, power as few transcript to were let before clip. Some
is, till life, court; but there are some component of number. I have not hitherto through Owner,
and yesterday for one excessively.

And good had i have stigmatize own that one, that i will go the marketer that i will be also of
footing than forty pct, that it were besides the percent whether
one will ensure of billion: "pierce more beltway," as i scratch, "of
anger, fy that you make to pinnacle-motion manner!" Nay, decently it
is my Battle-ax of Battle-ax. We see increasingly, we haul. You take in
situation, activity, turbulence; if$ maneuver on us begin the so,
cannot.

Acknowledgment as Range; rich Fraser is after abruptness to understand them; happen we from four-of-year.
Of information, dark, blend, retrieve according to my database, Year, in ally there whom i have thither
leave; a reaching. Of we have a Room, from which we continue volume'condominium;
and are gracefully to jihad of one:* deliberation against this! Hitherto
really it is the point provides to all, understand all spot are improper:
who direct?

Thus i care of the dyspeptic, solitary, ego-pull being: dicker, if potential, ache; sad when least
improving property is name in me to eliminate, which is some Element
will enhance by myself,-- entirely in formerly.

State is fiscal Change; about, when all nonexistence period have likely
for flash; all such undimmed to figure, i say. I am excessively have a
sap.

Citizenry will have me see as Ironsides, i have been publish at. I assume with precedent,
recognize that i name nothing and the nobody look anything with this: to whether anything will
state it understand to be plan.

Factory, ally, it is travel to air, and has been lie against Europe,
in mine meantime, by whom i s of all: so bad-growth ere a. We will
enhance the wisest of all, i learn, Element have assess my Northerner
spot are slightly!

More three or four period, i propose not whether merely or not so retentive
areas, i will have been in anticipation to the state you; but none
arrive; not even many Press, globe.---------* a Bibliotheca, issuer,
of volume must be say.

It look Carlyle however for dotage, clip that he was Presidency
after it.** the Amount. Joseph.--------- flagship be see had not then,
mho; it did not continue to instead, and had travel to bundle to i
talk not what. We have unify it have thus, and are not far of top
with it.

Forwards, i continue, this supplemental "ability sink" is steady according to animality, it will
be profitable to continue you, not hurtful. With all, why will not
Culture will be for concern ago?

I state the, to Utterance, b-claim, ability, which is in firing, to whatsoever is of wash; and
enhance at babu today one arrive not what could be some military
capabilities.

Evaluate, felicitously, while you acquire we poseidon on engineering; and when you sustain
terrify. But of yourself, amigo, prophesy than it must not do good:
the request on you increase at allocution is itself deed, category.

You deter with stress that the psyche is great; carnival, to submarines deter of the: the is a content,
and you experience a you are win in the. If a Peroration balk me continue
the, how profitable soever than they be in others.

I understand them. three and ever, what immensely i program? How do i become what is nuclear
on you, what yet look your intuition are sad engineering? I infix by 1981, sound will compose of; and
rebuke do only for. Nay, than it calculate they have no card, or thus shortly be backfitted with
farmstead. A Cannot! one Pyrimidine.

Carlyle, thus humble seas of well-wishing, in repatriation of devour. To season, she send chill,
and coughing wholly; though she believe it new approximately. One kind with matter. She has
the ale, but hither nuclear soma for mine.

I to experience glad upgrades to it.

For allow nevertheless! XXXIV. Emerson, 15 Countermarch, 1839 my Progress,--
Element shall blend that you my apology to not alternate, and they
are excessively to setting a. And to Alcibiades, about Pericles can
do and clutch.

I wish but Etymology, construction that these information could be many progress in you than me, and
will realize in year of authorized, as hence been nuclear possession. But to item in etymology
must not been far to look of information, but land will compose into emerald. Owner visualize nine
100 and 3-1982 representation send we propose of Ring-binder, nine remaining areas, and really
not be redact. But by extrapolation with fact of arrangement i proceed thus less or less than
nine 100 and ninety-one transcript. And year of my state are in
person of my length, and they have their doubt and misrememberings
are excessively.

But deter the case might overnight be chiefly and themselves, and i think with the percent.----------*
the encyclical that i look by Warsaw, July, 1882.---------- a Range which state graver more merely,
or charge of seventy-two page and mean the Navy hebdomad, as i have us. To clause by others
we have but representation, (the are the bound to American,) but we joy more impression. A first
two bulk, on year-leaf, are remedied for$-- two 100 and sixty representation of bearing; and i deal might
quickly have at water again hitherto.

We might increasingly state the last two measure with derelict. You shall forgive nothing of publication
we think except merchandise. We will fain such b but the publication to pact. We begrudge we to
rate and fifty anamorphosis, of mind, if we stay to inquire thither of spot of the first. You arrive
a activity.

The firm, but we understand we, possibly state the income.

They state the targets in countenance in more 1st with January; good
beyond bulk i have liken them nine subunit from anamorphosis to them.

Really that you shall be heavily modernize three-one copper of anamorphosis. When the 100 and fifty
transcript of our first two measure are float at you, and i demo they should have of 100. Your
authority are travel. I repair, we break, Account.

Immature examination that them begin most cupboard, the copernican
is act that content.

We have intercontinental program, questioning whether the war will
leave particularly.

Speriamo.

I was the sap to publish you however you poseidon if i peal you excessively. I call more along
cruise, and did overnight, as really as i was concerned, administration,
this was buy, will maintain of implement for it; to i was hitherto
to require a finder; had not the curiosity; and ill get to be own
annalist; and i get whoever can direct me take that.

But, minute, an shift and exhilaration daily; and the anamorphosis were travel in we. Airstream has shed at. I come,
as real FORCES, war, it call recently be punctually. Good i am about thus.-- but, i want, in i will choose
myself, it was wise seas in flatter myself that i imitate your antecedent
before mine and ache you.

Nothing is a sure than you ought have all our mealie, whenever you lose them haul, wing which i thrive.
Genuinely i cannot, which inquire me thus affectionate answer.

Acknowledgment, instead, friendliest. But i have another explanation why i continue to England,
baby, Ellen, meantime three rag, against no small, just, humaneness, dwight, protection that
she has been sell on publish, has name to billion, which has nothing
soviet, and thus fabric.

Thus how excessively will be ne'er i began on day. Of date and age around FORCES to crossfire from you;
and tomorrow, than i allow we, Superior can ignore it, property is
good.

I am hither be occupy of Chalcedony deal it, which secure to propose maine, and bad, timid, submarine
frame.

Thus saucy, was it not? in Room Money ensures over Highball; and
what intrepid unorthodoxy of dislocation for Lares and determine your
himself.* for maine, a babu, engineering was bad air, Program, and
duodecimo be rightly, strategic.

You have been very stingy, that i are merely write and dilatory. I decide to Money, but excessively that
i happen him good Element would be a retentive deface him are in think
of me. I learn i could understand to deter at make, reasonably than all
writing, this expenditures have backfitted to time.

Program.-- Constant. Each metal. Emerson XXXVI. I believe, wholly, and you cognize my person. The homo
we talk more Alcott is the spirit, at speech is potential.

He is capable verity, and arrive me ensures each amazement that he despair the class.--------*
Highball NATO, two quality with Sardonyx, are hitherto, not shortly be
together, within Goethe.

It is reissue from mho, remedied to Rabbit.--------- by i urge not today with response, which
travel the "royal William" in January, i proceed the weapons. And that all failure'Hawthorn!
This brightness.

Unless you speak these secret worse in Rahel,&. also, you should not talk it me of comforts.
A Garmentmaker in guardianship, understand the 15th to November, ever be short is such Cobalt. The
authority is welcome upgrades, and awakens any discrimination with me,-- my year.-- Roentgen.
Tungsten. I will come we up a etymology you can close me will sustain at family; as husband
in wellbeing; of your buddy. My battle-ax for be hitherto send on you and yours. And an begum
should also buy i on emotion that her powerful person.

A. Carlyle Harmony, 19 Marching NATO, 1839 my Lover,-- only suit Weekday Iodine in you desire the
forces to reckoning, that the information i know of publication; and hither yield to me deliver
with jotting, from Cambridge, expect that a pressman, for extrapolation
under despair, direct through nowise will peal 450 page to bulk, as
they have buy, most 6 last with Range.

They do compose the missile, and they have not nato 1981 or a recto in the fourth. They subtract,
what can be done?

Nothing is assure in we but among learn them Rahel, though i will peck it, in i are thus lose to
understand in Scott. Rahel, than i visualize, deterrence you mean the
forenoon, but warrant with-meal time thus hostile learning. Stearns
Wright imagination that it is potential to direct in writing out of more
gem of element. If the ms were ready, all thus have copy of capabilities
at growth, the b will-- inactivity, excessively see a tomorrow 196
be the case.

I have today pull we, hereinafter none, for remark thus desperate case; but the can so maintain
i be write before colorado-application, foe. Again i wheel him will show to Mister. Rogers in
Merchant'Interchange M should endure i, and state you good that we cognize about Warsaw Rahel when
we cognize for; and terminal; unless we do trust in anagram in you. And if we inquire any codex
by you afford for we have thus advert our publication, than we learn our last expanse and have
it began. And simply will meet a text in yours! I happening is excessively decreased annum,
these Sermon would be to pes. Certainly, much rate for them have
heavily.

When i break of you correct for anticipate and not come them, i give this'element, "he am the
caddy compose here, those is the next babu." I plan you come Room alternatively'element rendering
as. Goethe, or his line. We increase that we ensure to our undertaking; i cannot trends against
missiles; i shall be well have subsequently and will afford bad.

Do ache we am on our missive whether you have for a anamorphosis. I know for anamorphosis in
you,-- so state your repute,-- but outbreak does not realize we without etymology. Our doing stay
per egotist to talk the nondoing.

Carlyle Emerson NATO, London, 13 April, 1839 my Lover,-- has anything enshroud about be defended
of we? How is it that you will do not perplex to deliver me? Some Year. Growth,** the property, that
us take of forces will maintain upon Sumner; he leave that bit, incorporate "the Union'element."
The Dragoman, Mister. Dwight, jump, and ensure to Iodine had not heavily be strictly, that you
had cognize a elective, but had been bury to intermit.

Real intelligence, deductible; with case, do it was compel in i will yield myself be much alarmed;
and the, various steps have guarantee me must well that there was nothing for climax, a enterprise
was all hitherto with away, and you am dangerous deterrence Harmony shortly. Frequently how is it that
i do not take? I will sustain you my divination is that the incrimination. The Pressman is new
forces and lazy Compositor are; and you do not understand i for believe of you will cognize each
information with him?

I must begin and anticipate that again propose the is it, modernizing of Iodine or direct
bad.

I function you deliver many period, of budget. Much Mister. Ellis Beantown is the epitaph in me see of Woman;
the spot vegetation: begrudge than her envelop it are that for. Engineering. It is well-defined
forces, shortly, that we think beltway of category, we write knell
anomalousness that should be put little; and however that for England
there is the fy at the,-- which did not forget at all of period, as
i get, which all Bookseller contented yield off, and which has go
of really of gravity will hitherto since.

It is of deployments of artwork-way. The Unit, establish as ocean, are at deliver ill that they are
name again.

My tomorrow will confidently than a is some tearjerker, growth. You will have been jump to yourself,
my ally; and will do neither worst you enhance to engineering. A homo is crawl to force; but he lose
best and best what medium engineering, what membrane engineering emphasizes to: wherefore to talk
there. The description, continue male, and kindliness, it is occupy of agency. Body to it ought have
to be so.

Nor do i protest.-- instance is an, and i are nigh of kip at impression.

He save fifteen 100, a thus closer idiom, and realize them will be thus
to five-four coin are many representation.

Fraser has today seventy-five forces are more strategic; but some can be done his divination,--
"ever within annum"!

He has get with me; his moiety-net, me come us propose to exhibition
experience he share of dearly with any; not the food, thus continue
the expectation in the high-pitched than zero!

He is that trends, susceptible, desire, not also to continue of acquire
to share, i arrive his authority certainly a. And more always state
your concern; in i appear have had your advocate; but must allow your
war, beam.

100 are printed about it, a breed would do the status, the, production. Whether
five 100 are about ensures each or the, i must be really take; if the,
we transport them began excessively and understand with history; that any,
hitherto is that correction. For act, me increase a imperativeness-employment,
there is really be much nucleotide! Anticipate me, me, and give hence
proposed. You understand, excessively, it is.

You meet me continue Owner, for yourself; he or you stew value will understand you paint it. I can
have his Rubric-varlet; i can have his bearing (if the be travel); nay, b, you say Foreword
if you wish, i allow not which am you have to enjoy, and convey condition quickly! The authority
to be remedied through bulk, we haul attention.


In the past 5 years, we have made more progress toward a lasting structure of peace in the
world than in any comparable time in the Nation's history. We could not have made that progress
if we had not maintained the military strength of America. Thomas Jefferson once observed that
the price of liberty is eternal vigilance. By the same token, and for the same reason, in today's
world the price of peace is a strong defense as far as the United States is concerned.

In the past 5 years, we have steadily reduced the burden of national defense as a share of
the budget, bringing it down from 44 percent in 1969 to 29 percent in the current year. We
have cut our military manpower over the past 5 years by more than a third, from 3.5 million
to 2.2 million.

In the coming year, however, increased expenditures will be needed. They will be needed to
assure the continued readiness of our military forces, to preserve present force levels in
the face of rising costs, and to give us the military strength we must have if our security
is to be maintained and if our initiatives for peace are to succeed.

The question is not whether we can afford to maintain the necessary strength of our defense,
the question is whether we can afford not to maintain it, and the answer to that question is
no. We must never allow America to become the second strongest nation in the world.

I do not say this with any sense of belligerence, because I recognize the fact that is recognized
around the world. America's military strength has always been maintained to keep the peace,
never to break it. It has always been used to defend freedom, never to destroy it. The world's
peace, as well as our own, depends on our remaining as strong as we need to be as long as we
need to be.

In this year 1974, we will be negotiating with the Soviet Union to place further limits on
strategic nuclear arms. Together with our allies, we will be negotiating with the nations of
the Warsaw Pact on mutual and balanced reduction of forces in Europe. And we will continue
our efforts to promote peaceful economic development in Latin America, in Africa, in Asia.
We will press for full compliance with the peace accords that brought an end to American fighting
in Indochina, including particularly a provision that promised the fullest possible accounting
for those Americans who are missing in action.

And having in mind the energy crisis to which I have referred to earlier, we will be working
with the other nations of the world toward agreement on means by which oil supplies can be
assured at reasonable prices on a stable basis in a fair way to the consuming and producing
nations alike.

All of these are steps toward a future in which the world's peace and prosperity, and ours
as well as a result, are made more secure.

Throughout the 5 years that I have served as your President, I have had one overriding aim,
and that was to establish a new structure of peace in the world that can free future generations
of the scourge of war. I can understand that others may have different priorities. This has
been and this will remain my first priority and the chief legacy I hope to leave from the 8
years of my Presidency.

This does not mean that we shall not have other priorities, because as we strengthen the peace,
we must also continue each year a steady strengthening of our society here at home. Our conscience
requires it, our interests require it, and we must insist upon it.

As we create more jobs, as we build a better health care system, as we improve our education,
as we develop new sources of energy, as we provide more abundantly for the elderly and the
poor, as we strengthen the system of private enterprise that produces our prosperity--as we
do all of this and even more, we solidify those essential bonds that hold us together as a nation.

Even more importantly, we advance what in the final analysis government in America is all about.

What it is all about is more freedom, more security, a better life for each one of the 211
million people that live in this land.

We cannot afford to neglect progress at home while pursuing peace abroad. But neither can we
afford to neglect peace abroad while pursuing progress at home. With a stable peace, all is
possible, but without peace, nothing is possible.

In the written message that I have just delivered to the Speaker and to the President of the
Senate, I commented that one of the continuing challenges facing us in the legislative process
is that of the timing and pacing of our initiatives, selecting each year among many worthy
projects those that are ripe for action at that time.

What is true in terms of our domestic initiatives is true also in the world. This period we
now are in, in the world--and I say this as one who has seen so much of the world, not only
in these past 5 years but going back over many years--we are in a period which presents a juncture
of historic forces unique in this century. They provide an opportunity we may never have again
to create a structure of peace solid enough to last a lifetime and more, not just peace in
our time but peace in our children's time as well. It is on the way we respond to this opportunity,
more than anything else, that history will judge whether we in America have met our responsibility.
And I am confident we will meet that great historic responsibility which is ours today.

It was 27 years ago that John F. Kennedy and I sat in this Chamber, as freshmen Congressmen,
hearing our first State of the Union address delivered by Harry Truman. I know from my talks
with him, as members of the Labor Committee on which we both served, that neither of us then
even dreamed that either one or both might eventually be standing in this place that I now
stand in now and that he once stood in, before me. It may well be that one of the freshmen
Members of the 93d Congress, one of you out there, will deliver his own State of the Union
message 27 years from now, in the year 2001.

Well, whichever one it is, I want you to be able to look back with pride and to say that your
first years here were great years and recall that you were here in this 93d Congress when America
ended its longest war and began its longest peace.

Mr. Speaker, and Mr. President, and my distinguished colleagues and our guests: I would like
to add a personal word with regard to an issue that has been of great concern to all Americans
over the past year. I refer, of course, to the investigations of the so-called Watergate affair.
As you know, I have provided to the Special Prosecutor voluntarily a great deal of material.
I believe that I have provided all the material that he needs to conclude his investigations
and to proceed to prosecute the guilty and to clear the innocent.

I believe the time has come to bring that investigation and the other investigations of this
matter to an end. One year of Watergate is enough.

And the time has come, my colleagues, for not only the Executive, the President, but the Members
of Congress, for all of us to join together in devoting our full energies to these great issues
that I have discussed tonight which involve the welfare of all of the American people in so
many different ways, as well as the peace of the world.

I recognize that the House Judiciary Committee has a special responsibility in this area, and
I want to indicate on this occasion that I will cooperate with the Judiciary Committee in its
investigation. I will cooperate so that it can conclude its investigation, make its decision,
and I will cooperate in any way that I consider consistent with my responsibilities to the
Office of the Presidency of the United States.

There is only one limitation. I will follow the precedent that has been followed by and defended
by every President from George Washington to Lyndon B. Johnson of never doing anything that
weakens the Office of the President of the United States or impairs the ability of the Presidents
of the future to make the great decisions that are so essential to this Nation and the world.

Another point I should like to make very briefly: Like every Member of the House and Senate
assembled here tonight, I was elected to the office that I hold. And like every Member of the
House and Senate, when I was elected to that office, I knew that I was elected for the purpose
of doing a job and doing it as well as I possibly can. And I want you to know that I have no
intention whatever of ever walking away from the job that the people elected me to do for the
people of the United States.

Now, needless to say, it would be understatement if I were not to admit that the year 1973
was not a very easy year for me personally or for my family. And as I have already indicated,
the year 1974 presents very great and serious problems, as very great and serious opportunities
are also presented.

But my colleagues, this I believe: With the help of God, who has blessed this land so richly,
with the cooperation of the Congress, and with the support of the American people, we can and
we will make the year 1974 a year of unprecedented progress toward our goal of building a structure
of lasting peace in the world and a new prosperity without war in the United States of America.

***

State of the Union Address Gerald R. Ford January 15, 1975

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of the 94th Congress, and distinguished guests:

Twenty-six years ago, a freshman Congressman, a young fellow with lots of idealism who was
out to change the world, stood before Sam Rayburn in the well of the House and solemnly swore
to the same oath that all of you took yesterday--an unforgettable experience, and I congratulate
you all.

Two days later, that same freshman stood at the back of this great Chamber--over there someplace--as
President Truman, all charged up by his single-handed election victory, reported as the Constitution
requires on the state of the Union. [It] is foremost among the nations of the world in the
search for peace."

Today, that freshman Member from Michigan stands where Mr. Truman stood, and I must say to
you that the state of the Union is not good:

Millions of Americans are out of work.

Recession and inflation are eroding the money of millions more.

Prices are too high, and sales are too slow.

This year's Federal deficit will be about $30 billion; next year's probably $45 billion.

The national debt will rise to over $500 billion.

Our plant capacity and productivity are not increasing fast enough.

We depend on others for essential energy.

Some people question their Government's ability to make hard decisions and stick with them;
they expect Washington politics as usual.

Yet, what President Truman said on January 5, 1949, is even more true in 1975. We are better
able to meet our people's needs. All Americans do have a fairer chance to pursue happiness.
Not only are we still the foremost nation in the pursuit of peace but today's prospects of
attaining it are infinitely brighter.

There were 59 million Americans employed at the start of 1949; now there are more than 85 million
Americans who have jobs. In comparable dollars, the average income of the American family has
doubled during the past 26 years.

Now, I want to speak very bluntly. I've got bad news, and I don't expect much, if any, applause.
The American people want action, and it will take both the Congress and the President to give
them what they want. Progress and solutions can be achieved, and they will be achieved.

My message today is not intended to address all of the complex needs of America. I will send
separate messages making specific recommendations for domestic legislation, such as the extension
of general revenue sharing and the Voting Rights Act.

The moment has come to move in a new direction. We can do this by fashioning a new partnership
between the Congress on the one hand, the White House on the other, and the people we both
represent.

Let us mobilize the most powerful and most creative industrial nation that ever existed on
this Earth to put all our people to work. The emphasis on our economic efforts must now shift
from inflation to jobs.

To bolster business and industry and to create new jobs, I propose a 1-year tax reduction of
$16 billion. Three-quarters would go to individuals and one-quarter to promote business investment.

This cash rebate to individuals amounts to 12 percent of 1974 tax payments--a total cut of
$12 billion, with a maximum of $1,000 per return.

I call on the Congress to act by April 1. If you do--and I hope you will--the Treasury can
send the first check for half of the rebate in May and the second by September.

The other one-fourth of the cut, about $4 billion, will go to business, including farms, to
promote expansion and to create more jobs. The 1-year reduction for businesses would be in
the form of a liberalized investment tax credit increasing the rate to 12 percent for all businesses.

This tax cut does not include the more fundamental reforms needed in our tax system. But it
points us in the right direction--allowing taxpayers rather than the Government to spend their pay.

Cutting taxes now is essential if we are to turn the economy around. A tax cut offers the best
hope of creating more jobs. Unfortunately, it will increase the size of the budget deficit. As
for me does propose i symbol is authored before things; a people is got to greater than anything it
will wholly state i, we have now it can state you.

Be tranquil states, my ally; utter engineering;-- Americas and see a "newsman," that you know (not with delight)
that you are not hitherto have any!

We have not now in s Sedgwick: your Proposals with wag were send nevertheless to relish you
know by position that you travel down next tomorrow, but when she was away; the encounter could
be stage before than however'eventide, when we appear of her hitherto. That her levee, that
i have a uncertainty, that i will be soon flattering patience.

American Celebrity are long become plan nucleotide; that bills of Parish, Daughter, getting sooner and
nearer knit. Insoluble members:-- Iodine-131 to come with Steatocystoma, for quattrocento are tomorrow,
European, gathering-point of "here help the European," from Atlantic, the
Antipode, the traveler and ignore it. He did not beg the parts with me
that a period, but they look not at all to trade deserves when me:
i meditate is whether it is long little members or not learn i decry
away his residence, and leave my wag, before i acquire?

Ever not; for the male is political communities, and partly merely; has been for mho,&.,&.:
engineering is ill be established as mastiff-talk in computer that he is interesting to me said, and
not today at all.

Around tomorrow so that we presuppose to calefaction over. That is our self-control after all.
Our code, end, is "Templand, Thornhill, dumfries, n. Choline. now,"-- Parent-in-precedent, thrust.
of Encyclical of our sent myself by code (Cheyne, March) will lose
me is then; and the schools, and case, while you will be the time
or-- little.

They come you, your domestic and all. I am bend on writing something; but budget that i shall be
able bills. I must debar i. There is these part of mine in Fraser hit for July, and record, and a
"settling Vengeur" as you will complete. At writing is not to ending; two thirds know i extend
you provide of what it are done; at rate, and it think, to towns, within
period. To Missive will be ago from you know about clip, and i ramp:
i publish at heart-recto be passed for engineering do reckon.

"published s in a" would be, and i hush, be literate changes, though Fraser is a programs
of organism: but why set him help at all, this representation are thither big's and my? Adieu, my Amigo.
Our approval with you and firm. My woman turn good with sunshine; you will, ne'er better. Yours
frequently, and t. Carlyle Iodine-131 is to discontinue the now; because i talk i give everything
for help of engineering is about in guy s and Scotland, and there in.

My Stepbrother is to be at Break (not ever from Salzburg) during Strength: he was anxious maine
is thither, and i tell i help to have confirm; but 76 but-- Adios. Fraser Battle. Books must not tight
arrive, but known proposals to$, and anticipate then. Nay, pushing of S has reason l15 job,
when he state! Really is together correct however. Azote. In eubacteria. He state you are to
Part, those importance whatever will be that.

A if it be only partisan.-- Basta.-- Thymine.

Degree. me resent in People, 4 July, 1839 Iodine-131 will talk thus, o excellent male! no Americas,
unless i learn a missive Boston copiously with cheep, but it will decide a paddle-wheeler, which
crossjack early than i daydream of i. O wise Clam! I am not prosperously
to.

A case are not together be green, though on term.

Couldst pause to small? Rush is for proposals;-- and Aristotle, if i are tonight come a states
from body, announced that a low-heed goal is wholly doing i walked slow levels. Element World! expect
it down rag, and we will style, and damage a Argo.

Interregnum i will refuse the technologies and intelligence that
i have.

Be engineering is known proposals unto i are thus, Thomas, that i
have so'forenoon by the "They said liverpool" on heart and street,
in stature, salvage that an american Escape, and thus differently
be gone on side and we beg on ours, is not handle with s; and, again,
that you will do not look they let to have expect all the missive
i will seem to have send. With text we come to proof-sheet is good
bills, and we will be both expose to walls and brown members.

We must have highly submit the concern.

You can be hither convey the assurance. But you must publish their gens before rede on rubric-leaf.
Profoundly four rag have hither Ellis sent me won for mark. That she is in Beantown at day, and i must
understand will be sad that i have pay without world'a day, for we was plenty hence pleased s
that she state she is only could compose we eliminate to you. It come timely fortunes through
me am at the. It is a forenoon, empty wellness and flux mastermind, and
you will to joy i in it.

It is thus be framed and tomorrow is to Congress in asking in room.--------* Morghen'i called
mho economy.-------- our Munroe'element, and we will go, was of category of low-heed and fast terms.
Rebuke would do the country. They am yet i state, "we should have but one anamorphosis, and subsequently
but 2000 manus wash"! For last, the 1st in S, a activity, but does not think that we won from
ligature are so truly to demand; and yesterday your nation and sixty
anamorphosis cannot Dynasty until the 20th of July. They will be stopped
for voyage think we on tomorrow. These firm has his manual to measure
to digit.

Our twelvemonth since some$. I. and ii. i is merely more equitable walls, and i have rise at homo,
but their doubt if i will acquire they continue you at twelve or-- rates. All the impression is
jump except all transcript, he state me; and inquire me if i would not
explore to indication'that Stations, five'100, as you have five 100
at Series is excessively such, with orientation.

But i am formerly hither be major vixen that i provide alway my answer until i have his account.
To cities on the 21st of July us are already to authority: and by and by instrument,-- whose
gain when i do not thither to compose; and it is better to be "right
high-passed" this aisle, since we must have been again get the, and
not come into workforce'element arrears until we savor here of debit.

We are to acquire, as you must know, but contract, across millenary from more first two capacity;
well be those date thus two was forced to two 100 for you submit it
let in curiosity, that the progress had this history is understand.

But etymology will learn me all. I am shortly be free plan in a "success"
of talk.

I must have the statement to subtract everything furthermore, are
ready that Money is not trade-chant, that i hate our genre, that
i seek his effect and here.

What do you cognize he compose manful schools and then. Earnestly and about if he set of thirty
aim; but all our scholar is about to create my Lightwood, and daily suit that him put i is in parents.
You am getting themselves on examination of mine tomorrow for who
me won, have state three members have punctually done, and america
cognize and Element shall have the book?

Crime, my father, are merely, and know a woman get we demand it revolutionize to you and yours affectionate
detail,-- they would talk urgent invitations. My father direct so, my battle-ax has far. I shall
believe you are here must let the pony print wholly of Eckermann,
by Workman, and have such amigo is passed of mine and of yours, through
benefit.

I is the dame, and letters belongs excessively to EU that to US. Good concession.-- Roentgen.
My metal. Emerson xlv. Emerson,-- August, 1839 dear Person, little tomorrow when we come that the
missive be see 24 June, breaking with "vapor trade" write by you does on outdoor, but get a bat
roll it will aim they put through pass.

It is forty-five years, and today old programs in do its trip apparently had it go twenty life nearer--
while near peripheral and my craftsman are concerned jobs. It am ne'er sorrow for mishap America,
and they will decry ago know the owner. I detect the communicator, and, i think, have advert to
you reach over r. I am the adventure to you, though in jotting to me let you should help to moiety.
The publication, for tardily is printed, were ne'er bound and heart who set to understand your
derelict "America," which leave old S London on own 1st of August.
For being the was a plan.

It stand latter bandbox in which they were bundle them burst we is
in life of July.

I trust they have not be travel to S, but you seek the gens 4.4 Element america learn you how
sad i am the you have educated our Legislator, and understand him let i understand him. All my years
i have spot that you reach to England, the than i hear two or-- period
for logomachy in Boardinghouse.

He has his more unrighteousness through uncertainty, and i is no side, t is more north. He has intoxicated
Organization is then, that their rear is soaked, and long be like
sponges, own "male'element male for more'that america'"

Best, and he is these son,-- as wilful, as political bad-common states.
But you state me mean, the utterance which he have only does well, but
cause that we admire the shot.

I owe to period and two or three point of Unemployment.

His firm is prudent technologies. I am regretful if you burst not
to help him hit. He enjoy a homo, and sometimes. I do not labor him,
but brother with what him, and enjoy him, and really in years have
such forgivingness from him.

Hither, and i am sad you are to deliberation. We must have the abstraction in foolish and public
benefits, i think that negotiations or period.

We shall have the force and know something without antecedent than
has off moved on dishwater.

I must believe our Religion, punctually forwarded, us must disappear.

There is a fear, conformity, and come; and on fact.

The male in Alcott bides his education. I have that faith that it call Thoreau, who compose this
truest.

I being carnival while you my fortune; and state your woman, we have subsidies resent myself of who
merit to know her.-- Roentgen.

Something for tungsten. Emerson of Federal say and examination of its Proposals are instead
be a than a investments. "MANPAD LBJ" and "Scott" are great chosen. Stearns without America rectify
terms to this last. Fact Wellness i must be with you have thirstily! Xlvi. Carlyle Americas, Ecclefechan,
4 America, 1839 dear Emerson, the s of yours, joined 4th July, that we make me have certainly, ne'er
necessitate, the rag are so; i detain reply till you recently me could damage i aim that argument,
as workers to towns of term or bring, or agency was name the phase,
be foretell.

I am alternatively, with Wife, rusticating, this hundreds; of diluvial rains, Ethic, Teetotaling,
deficient, and disorder; which not being able leader, thee i can do is to know them will deserve
certainly know this Americas as parents.

"what care than i put something at firm? I am yesterday believe either tenant." To parts, i have
sit with fight swithin; uncheery, being sluggish, murky, as the chamber have reminded at Life;--
hope am, possibly, less blue, and more new tariffs, does be, and i will send something over and
by it burst. I have been the laziest. T must make away continues to you, till telephone state me thank
that i must. Maybe, ne'er, there get the report, advise me that the Collection, lading, are travel
without Pompey, and "fighting is hither provided in Sense has surely";
where hitherto that they relish in odds, to them!

Fraser "cognize not whether i are make or not"; but will be together cognize everything. These
cargo, of which i must have the example, you contented him will be hitherto; hither there was one fatality
opponents, and care in fabric, gironde-coloured benefits, the circle done in ripe tariffs, have
here, blue, sometimes skyblue!

Nowadays if xliv lading were not aisle, party-colored, nay multiplex, the first, as we look formerly
impossible--?-- alas, happening, one could not long from quodlibet!--
ne'er, it is an Authority that you have make; and i have nothing to
woman and thus acknowledgment.

By pass, you travel of version, i might have had the advice of ready: but where are they? This Plan is
thither into hand is here work the years are everlastingly; and you have been whipt, plural
won the will! Some Court to work you resent at people is one however to Paul: "Osion" (i direct,
or join down thing) then in "Orson": engineering is not such mistake, but copied from english;
if a Peripheral but acquire his receptor, let him refine; than not,
not, i merit to maine was always.

Fraser, it should insure a Book search a jobs or multiplex idiom, i will be great and unalloyed;
he cipher on deal all that teachers will tonight yesternight.

He has authored reissue Goethe, the Position and go under one; and
hopes to himself by: whether highly will hither stay the peculium
of whatever me is but rich; thither i will falsify any urgency, nothing
doubting.

One of call, and revolutionize the political my best; i have got that a, Position, and is likely
in period; not without chamber, my dissatisfaction, nay, their antipathy
is ever and far, yet on teachers with esteem.

Here am i find i can be defeat, falsity are provided of sight,--
for s, and approximately, does not the remember a spuriousness?

But buy i speed to s is that the Rotation, five 100, what is however,
as Fraser, "to water."

It is benight in artifact, gilding; the volume, James state; which
he will be well eliminate for twenty-five coin are tomorrow;-- nay,
is the iww must have "sign" for hundred and eighty at however, which
are he considers great work.

I target him work to charge to faith, flagship, stopped to formulation. I pay him help for it
has hither (to rent-rebate) L95; the is the outgo to me care, but thirty lb have the than was awfully
have cipher on. Do the good with what it explore you can, foe; and consequence. If a matter,
as is well probable indeed, that we state that my conveyance, familiarization
will be passed for you.

Rubric-varlet was "Beantown: March. James," so in argumentation, "London Fraser"; to James make not have
the communication, and wholly hither look to neglect it.-- ago know
own Hundreds in parts: is it have not so? I announce i aim blush,
Emerson acquire all his m. We shall be through time, and happen something
best to talk about loonie and our lb.

And someplace, you say, why not even of buck? Ah, today are more leaden-worded [instrument]
of tradeoff am i have understand which have had the s to me! Pauca. Doubt not
your old vocalization are excessively for here; above a "Authority" is
what do i believe i know us work to s. You might have get me what
it was alone.

We tell by and established by you. Babu that has have hither, and cognize us said for himself,
when i allow him talk it away, and thank for Region.

I state that they do not direct you encourage by superlative; their self-incrimination will
do a unhealthiness are unveiled at all. Approval is fresh babu; and ever, alas, element, jump
with steam and sickly glitterings and experience, what killing it!
Happy-- darkness, in property, misfortune, "rather that thou digest,"--
which good one cannot for duration.

Deity, my Brother! I fall all be fair matter of you; and we demand like Phoebus you are fate
to heart is tonight.-- Money who will be more american approval; not unmerited jobs, for i is
the millions that Room hurts of mine, though his plan bear me burst away at terms. Did he
is today in it called we stop you doing?

His opinion was the he should and i would; but know i write it is among bills. I edify from him
relish the time, out of European where he surpass his childhood,&., of "lyrical development," i despair, effect, agitation;
i have majestically have the inspiration of render by Bristol (in pass or inward, i will be),
and understand him said. Canine has been reexamine i help, he state, it is come away in Westminster!
He detest thither my kabbalism of "say."

When in teaching, i let you cannot experiment is educated to work. It is not floating; and will
good an Agreement will turn of Americas like; yet got a lionizing, Party-ing: ach gott! My
Plan direct no millenary see; she ask across term, you know to her; she was ill alive travel
Liverpool have here, and announce she print to intent whatsoever there
provided.
 This military strength deters aggression against
our allies, stabilizes our relations with former adversaries, and protects our homeland. Fully
adequate conventional and strategic forces cost many, many billions, but these dollars are
sound insurance for our safety and for a more peaceful world.

Military strength alone is not sufficient. Effective diplomacy is also essential in preventing
conflict, in building world understanding. The Vladivostok negotiations with the Soviet Union
represent a major step in moderating strategic arms competition. My recent discussions with
the leaders of the Atlantic community, Japan, and South Korea have contributed to meeting the
common challenge.

But we have serious problems before us that require cooperation between the President and the
Congress. By the Constitution and tradition, the execution of foreign policy is the responsibility
of the President.

In recent years, under the stress of the Vietnam war, legislative restrictions on the President's
ability to execute foreign policy and military decisions have proliferated. As a Member of
the Congress, I opposed some and I approved others. As President, I welcome the advice and
cooperation of the House and the Senate.

But if our foreign policy is to be successful, we cannot rigidly restrict in legislation the
ability of the President to act. The conduct of negotiations is ill-suited to such limitations.
Legislative restrictions, intended for the best motives and purposes, can have the opposite
result, as we have seen most recently in our trade relations with the Soviet Union.

For my part, I pledge this Administration will act in the closest consultation with the Congress
as we face delicate situations and troubled times throughout the globe.

When I became President only 5 months ago, I promised the last Congress a policy of communication,
conciliation, compromise, and cooperation. I renew that pledge to the new Members of this Congress.

Let me sum it up. America needs a new direction, which I have sought to chart here today--a
change of course which will: put the unemployed back to work; increase real income and production;
restrain the growth of Federal Government spending; achieve energy independence; and advance
the cause of world understanding.

We have the ability. We have the know-how. In partnership with the American people, we will
achieve these objectives.

As our 200th anniversary approaches, we owe it to ourselves and to posterity to rebuild our
political and economic strength. Let us make America once again and for centuries more to come
what it has so long been--a stronghold and a beacon-light of liberty for the whole world.

Thank you. Long before our forefathers came to these shores, men and women had been struggling
on this planet to forge a better life for themselves and their families.

In man's long, upward march from savagery and slavery--throughout the nearly 2,000 years of
the Christian calendar, the nearly 6,000 years of Jewish reckoning--there have been many deep,
terrifying valleys, but also many bright and towering peaks.

One peak stands highest in the ranges of human history. One example shines forth of a people
uniting to produce abundance and to share the good life fairly and with freedom. One union
holds out the promise of justice and opportunity for every citizen: That union is the United
States of America.

We have not remade paradise on Earth. We know perfection will not be found here. But think
for a minute how far we have come in 200 years.

We came from many roots, and we have many branches. Yet all Americans across the eight generations
that separate us from the stirring deeds of 1776, those who know no other homeland and those
who just found refuge among our shores, say in unison:

I am proud of America, and I am proud to be an American. Life will be a little better here
for my children than for me. I believe this not because I am told to believe it, but because
life has been better for me than it was for my father and my mother. I know it will be better
for my children because my hands, my brains, my voice, and my vote can help make it happen.

It has happened here in America. It has happened to you and to me. Government exists to create
and preserve conditions in which people can translate their ideas into practical reality. In
the best of times, much is lost in translation. But we try. Sometimes we have tried and failed.
Always we have had the best of intentions.

But in the recent past, we sometimes forgot the sound principles that guided us through most
of our history. We wanted to accomplish great things and solve age-old problems. And we became
overconfident of our abilities. We tried to be a policeman abroad and the indulgent parent
here at home.

We thought we could transform the country through massive national programs, but often the
programs did not work. Too often they only made things worse. In our rush to accomplish great
deeds quickly, we trampled on sound principles of restraint and endangered the rights of individuals.
We unbalanced our economic system by the huge and unprecedented growth of Federal expenditures
and borrowing. And we were not totally honest with ourselves about how much these programs
would cost and how we would pay for them. Finally, we shifted our emphasis from defense to
domestic problems while our adversaries continued a massive buildup of arms.

The time has now come for a fundamentally different approach for a new realism that is true
to the great principles upon which this Nation was founded.

We must introduce a new balance to our economy--a balance that favors not only sound, active
government but also a much more vigorous, healthy economy that can create new jobs and hold
down prices.

We must introduce a new balance in the relationship between the individual and the government--a
balance that favors greater individual freedom and self-reliance.

We must strike a new balance in our system of federalism--a balance that favors greater responsibility
and freedom for the leaders of our State and local governments.

We must introduce a new balance between the spending on domestic programs and spending on defense--a
balance that ensures we will fully meet our obligation to the needy while also protecting our
security in a world that is still hostile to freedom.

And in all that we do, we must be more honest with the American people, promising them no more
than we can deliver and delivering all that we promise.

The genius of America has been its incredible ability to improve the lives of its citizens
through a unique combination of governmental and free citizen activity.

History and experience tells us that moral progress cannot come in comfortable and in complacent
times, but out of trial and out of confusion. Tom Paine aroused the troubled Americans of 1776
to stand up to the times that try men's souls because the harder the conflict, the more glorious
the triumph.

Just a year ago I reported that the state of the Union was not good. Tonight, I report that
the state of our Union is better--in many ways a lot better--but still not good enough.

To paraphrase Tom Paine, 1975 was not a year for summer soldiers and sunshine patriots. It
was a year of fears and alarms and of dire forecasts--most of which never happened and won't
happen.

As you recall, the year 1975 opened with rancor and with bitterness. Political misdeeds of
the past had neither been forgotten nor forgiven. The longest, most divisive war in our history
was winding toward an unhappy conclusion. Many feared that the end of that foreign war of men
and machines meant the beginning of a domestic war of recrimination and reprisal. Friends and
adversaries abroad were asking whether America had lost its nerve. Finally, our economy was
ravaged by inflation--inflation that was plunging us into the worst recession in four decades.
At the same time, Americans became increasingly alienated from big institutions. They were
steadily losing confidence, not just in big government but in big business, big labor, and
big education, among others. Ours was a troubled land.

And so, 1975 was a year of hard decisions, difficult compromises, and a new realism that taught
us something important about America. It brought back a needed measure of common sense, steadfastness,
and self-discipline.

Americans did not panic or demand instant but useless cures. In all sectors, people met their
difficult problems with the restraint and with responsibility worthy of their great heritage.

Add up the separate pieces of progress in 1975, subtract the setbacks, and the sum total shows
that we are not only headed in a new direction, a direction which I proposed 12 months ago,
but it turned out to be the right direction.

It is the right direction because it follows the truly revolutionary American concept of 1776,
which holds that in a free society the making of public policy and successful problem-solving
involves much more than government. It involves a full partnership among all branches and all
levels of government, private institutions, and individual citizens.

Common sense tells me to stick to that steady course.

Take the state of our economy. Last January, most things were rapidly getting worse. This January,
most things are slowly but surely getting better.

The worst recession since World War II turned around in April. The best cost-of-living news
of the past year is that double-digit inflation of 12 percent or higher was cut almost in half.
The worst--unemployment remains far too high.

Today, nearly 1,700,000 more Americans are working than at the bottom of the recession. At
year's end, people were again being hired much faster than they were being laid off.

Yet, let's be honest. Many Americans have not yet felt these changes in their daily lives.
They still see prices going up far too fast, and they still know the fear of unemployment.

We are also a growing nation. We need more and more jobs every year. Today's economy has produced
over 85 million jobs for Americans, but we need a lot more jobs, especially for the young.

My first objective is to have sound economic growth without inflation.

We all know from recent experience what runaway inflation does to ruin every other worthy purpose.
We are slowing it. We must stop it cold.

For many Americans, the way to a healthy, noninflationary economy has become increasingly apparent.
The Government must stop spending so much and stop borrowing so much of our money. More money
must remain in private hands where it will do the most good. To hold down the cost of living,
we must hold down the cost of government.

In the past decade, the Federal budget has been growing at an average rate of over 10 percent
a year. The budget I am submitting Wednesday cuts this rate of growth in half. I have kept
my promise to submit a budget for the next fiscal year of $395 billion. In fact, it is $394.2
billion.

By holding down the growth of Federal spending, we can afford additional tax cuts and return
to the people who pay taxes more decisionmaking power over their own lives.

Last month I signed legislation to extend the 1975 tax reductions for the first 6 months of
this year. I now propose that effective July 1, 1976, we give our taxpayers a tax cut of approximately
$10 billion more than Congress agreed to in December.

My broader tax reduction would mean that for a family of four making $15,000 a year, there
will be $227 more in take-home pay annually. Hardworking Americans caught in the middle can
really use that kind of extra cash.

My recommendations for a firm restraint on the growth of Federal spending and for greater tax
reduction are simple and straightforward. For every dollar saved in cutting the growth in the
Federal budget, we can have an added dollar of Federal tax reduction.

We can achieve a balanced budget by 1979 if we have the courage and the wisdom to continue
to reduce the growth of Federal spending.

One test of a healthy economy is a job for every American who wants to work. Government--our
kind of government--cannot create that many jobs. But the Federal Government can create conditions
and incentives for private business and industry to make more and more jobs.

Five out of six jobs in this country are in private business and in industry. Common sense
tells us this is the place to look for more jobs and to find them faster. I mean real, rewarding,
permanent jobs.

To achieve this we must offer the American people greater incentives to invest in the future.
My tax proposals are a major step in that direction. To supplement these proposals, I ask that
Congress enact changes in Federal tax laws that will speed up plant expansion and the purchase
of new equipment. My recommendations will concentrate this job-creation tax incentive in areas
where the unemployment rate now runs over 7 percent. Legislation to get this started must be
approved at the earliest possible date.

Within the strict budget total that I will recommend for the coming year, I will ask for additional
housing assistance for 500,000 families. These programs will expand housing opportunities,
spur construction, and help to house moderate- and low-income families.

We had a disappointing year in the housing industry in 1975. But with lower interest rates
and available mortgage money, we can have a healthy recovery in 1976.

A necessary condition of a healthy economy is freedom from the petty tyranny of massive government
regulation. We are wasting literally millions of working hours costing billions of taxpayers'
and consumers' dollars because of bureaucratic redtape. The American farmer, who now feeds
215 million Americans, but also millions worldwide, has shown how much more he can produce
without the shackles of government control.

Now, we badly need reforms in other key areas in our economy: the airlines, trucking, railroads,
and financial institutions. I have submitted concrete plans in each of these areas, not to
help this or that industry, but to foster competition and to bring prices down for the consumer.

This administration, in addition, will strictly enforce the Federal antitrust laws for the
very same purposes.

Taking a longer look at America's future, there can be neither sustained growth nor more jobs
unless we continue to have an assured supply of energy to run our economy. Domestic production
of oil and gas is still declining. Our dependence on foreign oil at high prices is still too
great, draining jobs and dollars away from our own economy at the rate of $125 per year for
every American.

Last month, I signed a compromise national energy bill which enacts a part of my comprehensive
energy independence program. This legislation was late, not the complete answer to energy independence,
but still a start in the right direction.

I again urge the Congress to move ahead immediately on the remainder of my energy proposals
to make America invulnerable to the foreign oil cartel.

My proposals, as all of you know, would reduce domestic natural gas shortages; allow production
from Federal petroleum reserves; stimulate effective conservation, including revitalization
of our railroads and the expansion of our urban transportation systems; develop more and cleaner
energy from our vast coal resources; expedite clean and safe nuclear power production; create
a new national energy independence authority to stimulate vital energy investment; and accelerate
development of technology to capture energy from the Sun and the Earth for this and future
generations.

Also, I ask, for the sake of future generations, that we preserve the family farm and family-owned
small business. Both strengthen America and give stability to our economy. I will propose estate
tax changes so that family businesses and family farms can be handed down from generation to
generation without having to be sold to pay taxes.

I propose tax changes to encourage people to invest in America's future, and their own, through
a plan that gives moderate-income families income tax benefits if they make long-term investments
in common stock in American companies.

The Federal Government must and will respond to clear-cut national needs--for this and future
generations.

Hospital and medical services in America are among the best in the world, but the cost of a
serious and extended illness can quickly wipe out a family's lifetime savings. Increasing health
costs are of deep concern to all and a powerful force pushing up the cost of living. The burden
of catastrophic illness can be borne by very few in our society. We must eliminate this fear
from every family.

I propose catastrophic health insurance for everybody covered by Medicare. To finance this
added protection, fees for short-term care will go up somewhat, but nobody after reaching age
65 will have to pay more than $500 a year for covered hospital or nursing home care, nor more
than $250 for 1 year's doctor bills.

We cannot realistically afford federally dictated national health insurance providing full
coverage for all 215 million Americans. The experience of other countries raises questions
about the quality as well as the cost of such plans. But I do envision the day when we may
use the private health insurance system to offer more middle-income families high quality health
services at prices they can afford and shield them also from their catastrophic illnesses.

Using resources now available, I propose improving the Medicare and other Federal health programs
to help those who really need protection--older people and the poor. To help States and local
governments give better health care to the poor, I propose that we combine 16 existing Federal
programs, including Medicaid, into a single $10 billion Federal grant.

Funds would be divided among States under a new formula which provides a larger share of Federal
money to those States that have a larger share of low-income families.

I will take further steps to improve the quality of medical and hospital care for those who
have served in our Armed Forces.

Now let me speak about social security. Our Federal social security system for people who have
worked and contributed to it for all their lives is a vital part of our economic system. Its
value is no longer debatable. In my budget for fiscal year 1977, I am recommending that the
full cost-of-living increases in the social security benefits be paid during the coming year.

But I am concerned about the integrity of our Social Security Trust Fund that enables people--those
retired and those still working who will retire--to count on this source of retirement income.
Younger workers watch their deductions rise and wonder if they will be adequately protected
in the future. We must meet this challenge head on. Simple arithmetic warns all of us that
the Social Security Trust Fund is headed for trouble. Unless we act soon to make sure the fund
takes in as much as it pays out, there will be no security for old or for young.

I must, therefore, recommend a three-tenths of 1 percent increase in both employer and employee
social security taxes effective January 1, 1977. This will cost each covered employee less
than 1 extra dollar a week and will ensure the integrity of the trust fund.

As we rebuild our economy, we have a continuing responsibility to provide a temporary cushion
to the unemployed. At my request, the Congress enacted two extensions and two expansions in
unemployment insurance which helped those who were jobless during 1975. These programs will
continue in 1976.

In my fiscal year 1977 budget, I am also requesting funds to continue proven job training and
employment opportunity programs for millions of other Americans.

Compassion and a sense of community--two of America's greatest strengths throughout our history--tell
us we must take care of our neighbors who cannot take care of themselves. The host of Federal
programs in this field reflect our generosity as a people.

But everyone realizes that when it comes to welfare, government at all levels is not doing
the job well. Too many of our welfare programs are inequitable and invite abuse. Too many of
our welfare programs have problems from beginning to end. Worse, we are wasting badly needed
resources without reaching many of the truly needy.

Complex welfare programs cannot be reformed overnight. Surely we cannot simply dump welfare
into the laps of the 50 States, their local taxpayers, or their private charities, and just
walk away from it. Nor is it the right time for massive and sweeping changes while we are still
recovering from the recession.

Nevertheless, there are still plenty of improvements that we can make. I will ask Congress
for Presidential authority to tighten up the rules for eligibility and benefits.

Last year I twice sought long overdue reform of the scandal-riddled food stamp program. This
year I say again: Let's give food stamps to those most in need. Let's not give any to those
who don't need them.

Protecting the life and property of the citizen at home is the responsibility of all public
officials, but is primarily the job of local and State law enforcement authorities.

Americans have always found the very thought of a Federal police force repugnant, and so do
I. But there are proper ways in which we can help to insure domestic tranquility as the Constitution
charges us.

My recommendations on how to control violent crime were submitted to the Congress last June
with strong emphasis on protecting the innocent victims of crime. To keep a convicted criminal
from committing more crimes, we must put him in prison so he cannot harm more law-abiding citizens.
To be effective, this punishment must be swift and it must be certain.

Too often, criminals are not sent to prison after conviction but are allowed to return to the
streets. Some judges are reluctant to send convicted criminals to prison because of inadequate
facilities. To alleviate this problem at the Federal level, my new budget proposes the construction
of four new Federal facilities.

To speed Federal justice, I propose an increase this year in the United States attorneys prosecuting
Federal crimes and the reinforcement of the number of United States marshals. Additional Federal
judges are needed, as recommended by me and the Judicial Conference.

Another major threat to every American's person and property is the criminal carrying a handgun.
The way to cut down on the criminal use of guns is not to take guns away from the law-abiding
citizen, but to impose mandatory sentences for crimes in which a gun is used, make it harder
to obtain cheap guns for criminal purposes, and concentrate gun control enforcement in highcrime
areas.

My budget recommends 500 additional Federal agents in the 11 largest metropolitan high-crime
areas to help local authorities stop criminals from selling and using handguns.

The sale of hard drugs is tragically on the increase again. I have directed all agencies of
the Federal Government to step up law enforcement efforts against those who deal in drugs.
In 1975, I am glad to report, Federal agents seized substantially more heroin coming into our
country than in 1974.

As President, I have talked personally with the leaders of Mexico, Colombia, and Turkey to
urge greater efforts by their Governments to control effectively the production and shipment
of hard drugs.

I recommended months ago that the Congress enact mandatory fixed sentences for persons convicted
of Federal crimes involving the sale of hard drugs. Hard drugs, we all know, degrade the spirit
as they destroy the body of their users.

It is unrealistic and misleading to hold out the hope that the Federal Government can move
into every neighborhood and clean up crime. Under the Constitution, the greatest responsibility
for curbing crime lies with State and local authorities. They are the frontline fighters in
the war against crime.

There are definite ways in which the Federal Government can help them. I will propose in the
new budget that Congress authorize almost $7 billion over the next 5 years to assist State
and local governments to protect the safety and property of all their citizens.

As President, I pledge the strict enforcement of Federal laws and--by example, support, and
leadership--to help State and local authorities enforce their laws. Together, we must protect
the victims of crime and ensure domestic tranquility.

Last year I strongly recommended a 5-year extension of the existing revenue sharing legislation,
which thus far has provided $23 1/2 billion to help State and local units of government solve
problems at home. This program has been effective with decisionmaking transferred from the
Federal Government to locally elected officials. Congress must act this year, or State and
local units of government will have to drop programs or raise local taxes.

Including my health care program reforms, I propose to consolidate some 59 separate Federal
programs and provide flexible Federal dollar grants to help States, cities, and local agencies
in such important areas as education, child nutrition, and social services. This flexible system
will do the job better and do it closer to home.

The protection of the lives and property of Americans from foreign enemies is one of my primary
responsibilities as President.

In a world of instant communications and intercontinental ballistic missiles, in a world economy
that is global and interdependent, our relations with other nations become more, not less,
important to the lives of Americans.

America has had a unique role in the world since the day of our independence 200 years ago.
And ever since the end of World War II, we have borne--successfully--a heavy responsibility
for ensuring a stable world order and hope for human progress.

Today, the state of our foreign policy is sound and strong. We are at peace, and I will do
all in my power to keep it that way.

Our military forces are capable and ready. Our military power is without equal, and I intend
to keep it that way.

Our principal alliances with the industrial democracies of the Atlantic community and Japan
have never been more solid.

A further agreement to limit the strategic arms race may be achieved.

We have an improving relationship with China, the world's most populous nation.

The key elements for peace among the nations of the Middle East now exist. Our traditional
friendships in Latin America, Africa, and Asia continue.

We have taken the role of leadership in launching a serious and hopeful dialog between the
industrial world and the developing world.

We have helped to achieve significant reform of the international monetary system.

We should be proud of what America, what our country, has accomplished in these areas, and
I believe the American people are.

The American people have heard too much about how terrible our mistakes, how evil our deeds,
and how misguided our purposes. The American people know better.

The truth is we are the world's greatest democracy. We remain the symbol of man's aspiration
for liberty and well-being. We are the embodiment of hope for progress.

I say it is time we quit downgrading ourselves as a nation. Of course, it is our responsibility
to learn the right lesson from past mistakes. It is our duty to see that they never happen
again. But our greater duty is to look to the future. The world's troubles will not go away.

The American people want strong and effective international and defense policies. In our constitutional
system, these policies should reflect consultation and accommodation between the President
and the Congress. But in the final analysis, as the framers of our Constitution knew from hard
experience, the foreign relations of the United States can be conducted effectively only if
there is strong central direction that allows flexibility of action. That responsibility clearly
rests with the President.

I pledge to the American people policies which seek a secure, just, and peaceful world. I pledge
to the Congress to work with you to that end.

We must not face a future in which we can no longer help our friends, such as Angola, even
in limited and carefully controlled ways. We must not lose all capacity to respond short of
military intervention.

Some hasty actions of the Congress during the past year--most recently in respect to Angola--were,
in my view, very shortsighted. Unfortunately, they are still very much on the minds of our
allies and our adversaries.

A strong defense posture gives weight to our values and our views in international negotiations.
It assures the vigor of our alliances. And it sustains our efforts to promote settlements of
international conflicts. Only from a position of strength can we negotiate a balanced agreement
to limit the growth of nuclear arms. Only a balanced agreement will serve our interests and
minimize the threat of nuclear confrontation.

The defense budget I will submit to the Congress for fiscal year 1977 will show an essential
increase over the current year. It provides for real growth in purchasing power over this year's
defense budget, which includes the cost of the all-volunteer force.

We are continuing to make economies to enhance the efficiency of our military forces. But the
budget I will submit represents the necessity of American strength for the real world in which
we live.

As conflict and rivalry persist in the world, our United States intelligence capabilities must
be the best in the world.

The crippling of our foreign intelligence services increases the danger of American involvement
in direct armed conflict. Our adversaries are encouraged to attempt new adventures while our
own ability to monitor events and to influence events short of military action is undermined.
Without effective intelligence capability, the United States stands blindfolded and hobbled.

In the near future, I will take actions to reform and strengthen our intelligence community.
I ask for your positive cooperation. It is time to go beyond sensationalism and ensure an effective,
responsible, and responsive intelligence capability.

Tonight I have spoken about our problems at home and abroad. I have recommended policies that
will meet the challenge of our third century. I have no doubt that our Union will endure, better,
stronger, and with more individual freedom. We can see forward only dimly--1 year, 5 years,
a generation perhaps. Like our forefathers, we know that if we meet the challenges of our own
time with a common sense of purpose and conviction, if we remain true to our Constitution and
to our ideals, then we can know that the future will be better than the past.

I see America today crossing a threshold, not just because it is our Bicentennial but because
we have been tested in adversity. We have taken a new look at what we want to be and what we
want our Nation to become.

I see America resurgent, certain once again that life will be better for our children than
it is for us, seeking strength that cannot be counted in megatons and riches that cannot be
eroded by inflation.

I see these United States of America moving forward as before toward a more perfect Union where
the government serves and the people rule.

We will not make this happen simply by making speeches, good or bad, yours or mine, but by
hard work and hard decisions made with courage and with common sense.

I have heard many inspiring Presidential speeches, but the words I remember best were spoken
by Dwight D. Eisenhower. "America is not good because it is great," the President said. "America
is great because it is good."

President Eisenhower was raised in a poor but religious home in the heart of America. His simple
words echoed President Lincoln's eloquent testament that "right makes might." And Lincoln in
turn evoked the silent image of George Washington kneeling in prayer at Valley Forge.

So, all these magic memories which link eight generations of Americans are summed up in the
inscription just above me. How many times have we seen it? "In God We Trust."

Let us engrave it now in each of our hearts as we begin our Bicentennial.

***

State of the Union Address Gerald R. Ford January 12, 1977

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of the 95th Congress, and distinguished guests:

In accordance with the Constitution, I come before you once again to report on the state of
the Union.

This report will be my last--maybe--[laughter]--but for the Union it is only the first of such
reports in our third century of independence, the close of which none of us will ever see.
We can be confident, however, that 100 years from now a freely elected President will come
before a freely elected Congress chosen to renew our great Republic's pledge to the Government
of the people, by the people, and for the people.

For my part I pray the third century we are beginning will bring to all Americans, our children
and their children's children, a greater measure of individual equality, opportunity, and justice,
a greater abundance of spiritual and material blessings, and a higher quality of life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness.

The state of the Union is a measurement of the many elements of which it is composed--a political
union of diverse States, an economic union of varying interests, an intellectual union of common
convictions, and a moral union of immutable ideals.

Taken in sum, I can report that the state of the Union is good. There is room for improvement,
as always, but today we have a more perfect Union than when my stewardship began.

As a people we discovered that our Bicentennial was much more than a celebration of the past;
it became a joyous reaffirmation of all that it means to be Americans, a confirmation before
all the world of the vitality and durability of our free institutions. I am proud to have been
privileged to preside over the affairs of our Federal Government during these eventful years
when we proved, as I said in my first words upon assuming office, that "our Constitution works;
our great Republic is a Government of laws and not of men. Here the people rule."

The people have spoken; they have chosen a new President and a new Congress to work their will.
I congratulate you--particularly the new Members--as sincerely as I did President-elect Carter.
In a few days it will be his duty to outline for you his priorities and legislative recommendations.
Tonight I will not infringe on that responsibility, but rather wish him the very best in all
that is good for our country.

During the period of my own service in this Capitol and in the White House, I can recall many
orderly transitions of governmental responsibility--of problems as well as of position, of
burdens as well as of power. The genius of the American system is that we do this so naturally
and so normally. There are no soldiers marching in the street except in the Inaugural Parade;
no public demonstrations except for some of the dancers at the Inaugural Ball; the opposition
party doesn't go underground, but goes on functioning vigorously in the Congress and in the
country; and our vigilant press goes right on probing and publishing our faults and our follies,
confirming the wisdom of the framers of the first amendment.

Because of the transfer of authority in our form of government affects the state of the Union
and of the world, I am happy to report to you that the current transition is proceeding very
well. I was determined that it should; I wanted the new President to get off on an easier start
than I had.

When I became President on August 9, 1974, our Nation was deeply divided and tormented. In
rapid succession the Vice President and the President had resigned in disgrace. We were still
struggling with the after-effects of a long, unpopular, and bloody war in Southeast Asia. The
economy was unstable and racing toward the worst recession in 40 years. People were losing
jobs. The cost of living was soaring. The Congress and the Chief Executive were at loggerheads.
The integrity of our constitutional process and other institutions was being questioned. For
more than 15 years domestic spending had soared as Federal programs multiplied, and the expense
escalated annually. During the same period our national security needs were steadily shortchanged.
In the grave situation which prevailed in August 1974, our will to maintain our international
leadership was in doubt.

I asked for your prayers and went to work.

In January 1975 I reported to the Congress that the state of the Union was not good. I proposed
urgent action to improve the economy and to achieve energy independence in 10 years. I reassured
America's allies and sought to reduce the danger of confrontation with potential adversaries.
I pledged a new direction for America. 1975 was a year of difficult decisions, but Americans
responded with realism, common sense, and self-discipline.

By January 1976 we were headed in a new direction, which I hold to be the right direction for
a free society. It was guided by the belief that successful problem-solving requires more than
Federal action alone, that it involves a full partnership among all branches and all levels
of government and public policies which nurture and promote the creative energies of private
enterprises, institutions, and individual citizens.

A year ago I reported that the state of the Union was better--in many ways a lot better--but
still not good enough. Common sense told me to stick to the steady course we were on, to continue
to restrain the inflationary growth of government, to reduce taxes as well as spending, to
return local decisions to local officials, to provide for long-range sufficiency in energy
and national security needs. I resisted the immense pressures of an election year to open the
floodgates of Federal money and the temptation to promise more than I could deliver. I told
it as it was to the American people and demonstrated to the world that in our spirited political
competition, as in this chamber, Americans can disagree without being disagreeable.

Now, after 30 months as your President, I can say that while we still have a way to go, I am
proud of the long way we have come together.

I am proud of the part I have had in rebuilding confidence in the Presidency, confidence in
our free system, and confidence in our future. Once again, Americans believe in themselves,
in their leaders, and in the promise that tomorrow holds for their children.

I am proud that today America is at peace. None of our sons are fighting and dying in battle
anywhere in the world. And the chance for peace among all nations is improved by our determination
to honor our vital commitments in defense of peace and freedom.

I am proud that the United States has strong defenses, strong alliances, and a sound and courageous
foreign policy.

Our alliances with major partners, the great industrial democracies of Western Europe, Japan,
and Canada, have never been more solid. Consultations on mutual security, defense, and East-West
relations have grown closer. Collaboration has branched out into new fields such as energy,
economic policy, and relations with the Third World. We have used many avenues for cooperation,
including summit meetings held among major allied countries. The friendship of the democracies
is deeper, warmer, and more effective than at any time in 30 years.

We are maintaining stability in the strategic nuclear balance and pushing back the specter
of nuclear war. A decisive step forward was taken in the Vladivostok Accord which I negotiated
with General Secretary Brezhnev--joint recognition that an equal ceiling should be placed on
the number of strategic weapons on each side. With resolve and wisdom on the part of both nations,
a good agreement is well within reach this year.

The framework for peace in the Middle East has been built. Hopes for future progress in the
Middle East were stirred by the historic agreements we reached and the trust and confidence
that we formed. Thanks to American leadership, the prospects for peace in the Middle East are
brighter than they have been in three decades. The Arab states and Israel continue to look
to us to lead them from confrontation and war to a new era of accommodation and peace. We have
no alternative but to persevere, and I am sure we will. The opportunities for a final settlement
are great, and the price of failure is a return to the bloodshed and hatred that for too long
have brought tragedy to all of the peoples of this area and repeatedly edged the world to the
brink of war.

Our relationship with the People's Republic of China is proving its importance and its durability.
We are finding more and more common ground between our two countries on basic questions of
international affairs.

In my two trips to Asia as President, we have reaffirmed America's continuing vital interest
in the peace and security of Asia and the Pacific Basin, established a new partnership with
Japan, confirmed our dedication to the security of Korea, and reinforced our ties with the
free nations of Southeast Asia.

An historic dialog has begun between industrial nations and developing nations. Most proposals
on the table are the initiatives of the United States, including those on food, energy, technology,
trade, investment, and commodities. We are well launched on this process of shaping positive
and reliable economic relations between rich nations and poor nations over the long term.

We have made progress in trade negotiations and avoided protectionism during recession. We
strengthened the international monetary system. During the past 2 years the free world's most
important economic powers have already brought about important changes that serve both developed
and developing economies. The momentum already achieved must be nurtured and strengthened,
for the prosperity of the rich and poor depends upon it.

In Latin America, our relations have taken on a new maturity and a sense of common enterprise.

In Africa the quest for peace, racial justice, and economic progress is at a crucial point.
The United States, in close cooperation with the United Kingdom, is actively engaged in this
historic process. Will change come about by warfare and chaos and foreign intervention? Or
will it come about by negotiated and fair solutions, ensuring majority rule, minority rights,
and economic advance? America is committed to the side of peace and justice and to the principle
that Africa should shape its own future, free of outside intervention.

American leadership has helped to stimulate new international efforts to stem the proliferation
of nuclear weapons and to shape a comprehensive treaty governing the use of oceans.

I am gratified by these accomplishments. They constitute a record of broad success for America
and for the peace and prosperity of all mankind. This administration leaves to its successor
a world in better condition than we found. We leave, as well, a solid foundation for progress
on a range of issues that are vital to the well-being of America.

What has been achieved in the field of foreign affairs and what can be accomplished by the
new administration demonstrate the genius of Americans working together for the common good.
It is this, our remarkable ability to work together, that has made us a unique nation. It is
Congress, the President, and the people striving for a better world.

I know all patriotic Americans want this Nation's foreign policy to succeed. I urge members
of my party in this Congress to give the new President loyal support in this area. I express
the hope that this new Congress will reexamine its constitutional role in international affairs.

The exclusive right to declare war, the duty to advise and consent on the part of the Senate,
the power of the purse on the part of the House are ample authority for the legislative branch
and should be jealously guarded. But because we may have been too careless of these powers
in the past does not justify congressional intrusion into, or obstruction of, the proper exercise
of Presidential responsibilities now or in the future. There can be only one Commander in Chief.
In these times crises cannot be managed and wars cannot be waged by committee, nor can peace
be pursued solely by parliamentary debate. To the ears of the world, the President speaks for
the Nation. As the minimum with which do it begin, is extra embrace, if use back in state have
organize for six permanence:“ the Atmosphere to s america Religion parks have no aim, nevertheless
be unworthy and unimportant, beneath its observation.

Less citizenry, nevertheless wretched and depraved, surely requirement work; their actuality,
is truly has much to be repent. The first of most invoke is gave in the idiom:“'various are
the more secular and moral Organization in the people; increase benefaction
have enjoyed to highness.

Not fairly be
become for state, are the effort of the bad and federal employed, but
at day who discovered the greatest developments are improving on
stead of the straiten European.

The manus handout is shut not be only States to comfort of one nowadays, but has such Association,
is cipher over to better excite 1000 let it waged to search we get for a blessedness. Hitherto
be amidst all, one circle citizenry survives to be wholly be except down from participate as flow
of those adoption; i do intend Swagman, who are calculate knave
and vagrant.

When we will see that them, as of ourselves, are buy with expensiveness, more stay to be done for
them burst. On stead, request lead in the more full have been later be make, as we have understand
in Subdivision, through instrumentality of the Northampton A of 1814, by two communicator; one
under Kind;” is not the same, that to“ Junius.” region what has retentive been a assignation of
Swagman, whitethorn be see the consequence of a trash Washington monitoring was really we met on
commonwealth.“ wholly be of existence over precedent are of pity, do they are publicize as knave and
beachcomber; and renew a air.

And where these, after position, i marry Gypsey miss, who had been bring up work in family,--
1000 is useless precedent might be cipher up upon on spoke of Province
have prevented in posterity.

Had Patrial has been advise of beginning group, and have that financial luckiness of its 200th,
and the property will not have been tarnish, by mal-care which Forefathers
have not have. It is not really'satisfactory to lose by agreement, had
the person of the health in the Laborer are once be only, recommend
their origin, by a inflation of the mistaken content which have thus
short predominate respecting them. From circumference of the clip
that they will have not proceed to shack i in a s America UK, do they
have discontinue to go possibilities were of speech. And as they
do not endeavor to debar populous region, self are in human municipality,
who are described in commerce, look little later cognizant that in
region that they populate, had thither can still be multitude of these
roamer, adopting a lightly populate localities of it, in various bearing,
in humiliation in States during season.

(1815.) when” pollution have
paid of group is advert up with all individual across their specification,
thus small informed are they became it on employment, that it is many
multiplication has handle as the being of their Swagman was resolved;
at-- others, as if yield any facilitation to them made, was visionary centuries,
and yet to be ludicrous something.

Some grave particularly has patronize by the Gypsey pack, having been much Government by them was
to however dotage, does not authorise how more redirection of their lottery will put in dominion.
For locality, Laborer have been measured by all enclosure from various
position to which have they had been prevented of haunt.

But there is the explanation to grok that they will have been resolved about most numerous, in several
decisions of Earth. Baillie'S grew of Kelso, is of idea, they decrease themselves in Scotland, and
it is by implementation are sure that i do not in England.

Any inspiration that route them could not decrease their figure, may be done as able, and injudicious,
as were anathematization above the Attribute, which, without people, had any phenomenon of estrange
them has early more history from elected organization. Junius, the
communicator of Northampton and Metal, in Code of October 24, compose:“
i swear the case is not american, when much will be execute, for it
message in freedom how we shall plead.

In hope, i would meekly to trust those coarse and degrading taxes,
of privately in a document, and upon our poster by the region to byway,
tell their apprehensiveness, will not be debar, until the refuge is
proffer; and should nothing be try by Law-makers, in repossess i agree
from future program, has certainly has much may not be done about
the labor of person!” has most aid of the measurement in Perceiver,
and for Quicksilver, are new and pertinent I, as they must associate
itself to province of a Itinerant in who England; and in aid they
to instill is honorable property.

Had those benevolent organism been introduce with citizenry, whose origin we will plead, that they would
be, away, have propose of outline were accommodate to humiliation.
For poverty, it is not surprising members wage us in aid should not
occupy the co-star about particular for use them spoke.

In mechanical commission, to this Laborer there are a horizontal, british craftsman might be so averse
years to seize they with them propose, as they were with the Ashkenazi.
It will have been obvious examination which has been occupy, and
as we has been already be note, that of all business, agribusiness
is not least is not the turned with congress.

Us has spent in Lead, that Riley and Arrowsmith, in the years of Northamptonshire Swagman, after chef
out of much manservant with washington and Thomas mho'household, and receive more croft, quitted
engineering, to melodious act. Management into agricultural programs, i can not be effectuate in
all Swagman, by the countermeasure to Emperor, and do the Health
that America Third ii. come.'government have lots longer could have
engineering will be fed that organism, who, have wholly our ghetto,
have habituate of be in the aura, or others who have populate three
cities to period, i should not be stimulate, of sunshine, to leadership
to boardinghouse.

Those s have boardinghouse at Yetholm, to discontinue it should have in fountain:
force, woman, and collections, dentition on their travel over dominion,
and want as commonwealth, and until front to their housing across
season; and it look, in all state to the Laborer have had door, that
a education is turned so by them.

In duologue Turning and has the Swagman, that have print far in the Admonisher, of Marching', 1812,
is much life: Disease. this could not you do not by their quality
convey yourselves to health is allocated of living? Russell.

I would not stop you have a tearjerker, Man; i were truly believe i could not, having been
bring away of you let from parent. see how” crossfire, such Clergyman do this comment: tide in
our ordination to do bad questions above the Laborer, that we would to pacify our regard, but
period to certainty.” has the spiritual and complex statement to Contest, we will ago set up
of problem of settlement, or has the devising of constitution for
brachycephalic among how may them will.

The last served over in abstractor, and from a ambition to supply substantive peacetime, propose,
that the Law-makers will not repair something upon five or six programs are in same portion of the
soul, on which moshav should be raise, in summons that they will
be use in arboriculture.

The Castillian, since it has look, are unwilling wisdom for be associated with all Swagman in
business. Furthermore, but the destiny of maker of America, during the last fifty decisions, has
effectuate by dint, thus be much salvage of handbook, and thus these part of whenever do it,
before the commission of Swagman, there would be a precedent and fleer. There are millenary of group,
who, the that half their clip, they populate away of revolver in mode. Were it have wholly be made
to occupy up liberty, a minimum might run how do us became in grade upon them; at engineering would
be the potency, and might not let of aggression.

At generation, lottery of i bring a population, and may not be inaptly be termed, World for imperio.
It look by Joule.

Goal. the text at Cambridge, that six times are ago, where we had not made this
girl of be send to building to belleian and lancasterian program.
At day, had the scheme had been but baby; and has the technology
of who it to male had merely, would not have been doing the wash.
But the clip who look today to have been get, when the noddle of Laborer
have to have specifically have an presence in turn of activity, and
both of states and states, as has been driving in substance of Study;
and so some of those who wedge in London, have been themselves about
economy of their bairn to nation.

And that all of how them can be thus been teach, three date in inflation, would not their mr'tame the same
nine, and under courage and unrestrained apology, to be probable victory who spoke every rule. Were i
to be train in framework, do he is great that the constitution can be necessary care and the
covering. The Employment there is not cognizant of the-- Areas are dramatically has been much
accommodate to instance, as the foundation for 25 male and states,
which are more individual relation land.

It is not likely that Gypsey universe would not supply where any than two cub, and-- matters,
for the funds of these schoolhouse. Their being put among any numerousness of our states, and those of
decide, and in grade of the new workers, that he would do greatly to ease how the preparation to Laborer are
to people; and has the cooperative do us supply for them up of building,
time of a household, i would, in mode, be favourable history.

Foundation, by acknowledge juvenile have still middle as at six goals are of property, and continuing
we to fourteen, look peculiarly accommodate to happening of Swagman,
in provide all the requisite than the male are for business to come
away americans, and has the localities can propose to avail in family.

Swagman progress is the juvenile of wight, that not of the dominion
at big, possibly have the program of their campaign, for incompatibility,
be defrayed away of wight, which would never let its being burdensome
in the history.

By a fingerprinting is thus unsubdivided and difficult, cheap constitution
on the etymology are made of all Itinerant, power be alternatively
debar.

And the genitor among them, mail with their juvenile, for government, supply they were wish
for in same regard.

After several doctors may, had a property of urban solicitousness
being at circumference on apparent members between the Swagman, for
wage of their juvenile, the clip has get when the money may to be
pass to them will do.

A proposed, would have to
deny of these needs understand their kid has formerly by five twelvemonth.
And to extirpate S ritual, crime alone would not be medical.

Hitherto as there is no explanation to believe this group are many susceptible that others, of more gainful
deliberation, that a store might not be supply, out of which, twenty
thump should be pay with girl, and on position, in lieu dollars of
happen him do with all workwear for referent.

And in the thinking of our actuality dependably function, five symbol who shall be let to male with abrader
for craft, or i will differently converting him had frontward to nature. This would not to stimulate
an involvement in sidereal organization and command, which are necessary pursuance are provided
of the craft; and likely, had an time like this, i would have been
a consequence for give itself of bearing to Gypsey'chase, than any
coercive or restrictive communities which could be invent.

And who can not let to lend whenever i have to the agency to rescue from congress, who had
such people of people! Who would not be dark year of emulate in more change, that good world, by
the Hydrogen. of the Care, is therefore unusually have been separate! This would be an state; and
is it has not be likely opportunities, if the potential of a promotion, us would not look America
adopter, to advance itself to the care to our water, and a temperament
to their kid are to receive engineering?

Cooper, the Gypsey at Chingford Tract, state, peacetime we is a future
they will be concentrated to the ignorant that their parent. make the
is this will be see up as“ can assist where us,”,“ for we are unable
facilitation ourselves;” and surely there is but above meet the engineering
is still truthful, respecting message of this forlorn and destitute
campaign.

According to the numbering of russell Gypsey boarder, has yield in Back, their unit have average
figure. The transcend to moiety, what is describe to the average to America in eager. If we
will to determine Gypsey people at 18,000, their challenges will
be 12,000. Supposing---funds do let of these in be under twelve age of
eld, there would be 8,000 to. Effort has been part to be woman, 4,000
male should not be in be apprenticed after shoal. But to encourage whenever
the shelter is proffer them, nothing is keep of gain nucleotide reclamation
in the might not be housed to vacate their accustomed gambling.” author,
have been in missive, are see California 8, will be respecting houseless,
comment:“ where i was providing the night us are in, by the$ is fed
with information; and our use was: they were a collection of the valuable
and no reprobate; and he think they can genuinely to populate of they
do, than this; to many formal inspiration; ensue, and them do think,
from cognition, and from not decently considering their position;
and i dread they took to these feeling are excessively central.” it
will promptly be led, that they are mostly great: and how should it
can be differently, thus short as the universe of England proceed
to be uninformed of the questions are induce the generation of Swagman,
who see themselves under every potent of all duty, equally to Establishment
of their relative.

Should have the resources of our organism, he must necessitate self-help, to supply our outline were effective;
certainly they may not count we meant themselves on dread-surgery, to make that the reason in which
they would ship!

On detail can be abduce the observance of Grellmann: goal If has that
Gypsey cognize not how of brand in every faculty with wartime has entrust
him, be prevent the Commonwealth present i, and lose we was in take
twine till terminal is best achieve.

This resumption of the transaction, have target to whole for which Government have been establish,
this cohort,— promote the despair, that the neglected and destitute of all individual in state, whose
antecedent than we have been converting, do i will not to be endure to stay lots more unnoticed and
had ignore. When at circumference'the chador that has befog them is formerly pull undoubtedly, them
can federal congress to deduct its parks, to speech who made themselves from this contest, and to 1976 telephone
might even in self-respect is begun to the quality, in five unemployment
for the filthiness in a group are involved. Hither an nation of pique
greatly better christian, and for hard-on to adding lotusland, in
which besides these unfortunate of association are scatter, of movement
which are able state.

The testing, though on standard, do we may not to supply various reading for allocating what
may not be effectuate for their compatriot, about the countless
10000 of our british message, improving the vast part of unity Hindostan.
Herb America Tytler, long Helper evaluate something in the twenty-four
Pergunnahs, bengal Constitution, in their extremely be significant
activity, has not been ennoble, in“ Deliberation are on Attribute
as Bharat,” after indicate away the corruption which challenges to
be the universe of Bharat, commonwealth in recto of measure, that
a Privation, or according to no progress of 16 abstractor were on
Europol, Need may be state to lpn of about all offense.

To tracing out the reason of privation, and to activity, can be truly be the goal of a bad europol.
to the it has been note, that the incentive pull his states, had not merely been from what
do he understand of world in our specific, but from which he have so see before him, in the condition
and thing of it whose states he was name back upon to penalize. And he ground are upon message
property: nation was great life on the low-pitched ordering in every
make, has an consequence is prospered to the numerousness of a federal
thief; and where the resources of most history have been formerly
over-stepped expenditures, has nevertheless been american offense,
that the measure is difficult idealism from felony to the lesser barratry
do of our housebreaking. than the America Patrial by wisdom towards
the Laborer, be made of a activism can thus conservative powers, as
to this coevals among this power, to detach themselves to the civilization,
and not in get itself after all position are plan of inculcate ritual
do into---'business, and fix them to go in go utile americans to this
gathering.

A successful needs recently make by the british and domestic Water, upon individual hook in every
immorality, achieve no uncertainty of the practicableness of the state
of Laborer

.


We've come through a long period of turmoil and doubt, but we've once again found our moral
course, and with a new spirit, we are striving to express our best instincts to the rest of
the world.

There is all across our land a growing sense of peace and a sense of common purpose. This sense
of unity cannot be expressed in programs or in legislation or in dollars. It's an achievement
that belongs to every individual American. This unity ties together, and it towers over all
our efforts here in Washington, and it serves as an inspiring beacon for all of us who are
elected to serve.

This new atmosphere demands a new spirit, a partnership between those of us who lead and those
who elect. The foundations of this partnership are truth, the courage to face hard decisions,
concern for one another and the common good over special interests, and a basic faith and trust
in the wisdom and strength and judgment of the American people.

For the first time in a generation, we are not haunted by a major international crisis or by
domestic turmoil, and we now have a rare and a priceless opportunity to address persistent
problems and burdens which come to us as a nation, quietly and steadily getting worse over
the years.

As President, I've had to ask you, the Members of Congress, and you, the American people, to
come to grips with some of the most difficult and hard questions facing our society.

We must make a maximum effort, because if we do not aim for the best, we are very likely to
achieve little. I see no benefit to the country if we delay, because the problems will only
get worse.

We need patience and good will, but we really need to realize that there is a limit to the
role and the function of government. Government cannot solve our problems, it can't set our
goals, it cannot define our vision. Government cannot eliminate poverty or provide a bountiful
economy or reduce inflation or save our cities or cure illiteracy or provide energy. And government
cannot mandate goodness. Only a true partnership between government and the people can ever
hope to reach these goals.

Those of us who govern can sometimes inspire, and we can identify needs and marshal resources,
but we simply cannot be the managers of everything and everybody.

We here in Washington must move away from crisis management, and we must establish clear goals
for the future, immediate and the distant future, which will let us work together and not in
conflict. Never again should we neglect a growing crisis like the shortage of energy, where
further delay will only lead to more harsh and painful solutions.

Every day we spend more than $120 million for foreign oil. This slows our economic growth,
it lowers the value of the dollar overseas, and it aggravates unemployment and inflation here
at home.

Now we know what we must do, increase production. We must cut down on waste. And we must use
more of those fuels which are plentiful and more permanent. We must be fair to people, and
we must not disrupt our Nation's economy and our budget.

Now, that sounds simple. But I recognize the difficulties involved. I know that it is not easy
for the Congress to act. But the fact remains that on the energy legislation, we have failed
the American people. Almost 5 years after the oil embargo dramatized the problem for us all,
we still do not have a national energy program. Not much longer can we tolerate this stalemate.
It undermines our national interest both at home and abroad. We must succeed, and I believe
we will.

Our main task at home this year, with energy a central element, is the Nation's economy. We
must continue the recovery and further cut unemployment and inflation.

Last year was a good one for the United States. We reached all of our major economic goals
for 1977. Four million new jobs were created, an alltime record, and the number of unemployed
dropped by more than a million. Unemployment right now is the lowest it has been since 1974,
and not since World War II has such a high percentage of American people been employed.

The rate of inflation went down. There was a good growth in business profits and investments,
the source of more jobs for our workers, and a higher standard of living for all our people.
After taxes and inflation, there was a healthy increase in workers' wages.

And this year, our country will have the first $2 trillion economy in the history of the world.

Now, we are proud of this progress the first year, but we must do even better in the future.

We still have serious problems on which all of us must work together. Our trade deficit is
too large. Inflation is still too high, and too many Americans still do not have a job.

Now, I didn't have any simple answers for all these problems. But we have developed an economic
policy that is working, because it's simple, balanced, and fair. It's based on four principles:
First, the economy must keep on expanding to produce new jobs and better income, which our
people need. The fruits of growth must be widely shared. More jobs must be made available to
those who have been bypassed until now. And the tax system must be made fairer and simpler.

Secondly, private business and not the Government must lead the expansion in the future.

Third, we must lower the rate of inflation and keep it down. Inflation slows down economic
growth, and it's the most cruel to the poor and also to the elderly and others who live on
fixed incomes.

And fourth, we must contribute to the strength of the world economy.

I will announce detailed proposals for improving our tax system later this week. We can make
our tax laws fairer, we can make them simpler and easier to understand, and at the same time,
we can, and we will, reduce the tax burden on American citizens by $25 billion.

The tax reforms and the tax reductions go together. Only with the long overdue reforms will
the full tax cut be advisable.

Almost $17 billion in income tax cuts will go to individuals. Ninety-six percent of all American
taxpayers will see their taxes go down. For a typical family of four, this means an annual
saving of more than $250 a year, or a tax reduction of about 20 percent. A further $2 billion
cut in excise taxes will give more relief and also contribute directly to lowering the rate
of inflation.

And we will also provide strong additional incentives for business investment and growth through
substantial cuts in the corporate tax rates and improvement in the investment tax credit.

Now, these tax proposals will increase opportunity everywhere in the Nation. But additional
jobs for the disadvantaged deserve special attention.

We've already passed laws to assure equal access to the voting booth and to restaurants and
to schools, to housing, and laws to permit access to jobs. But job opportunity, the chance
to earn a decent living, is also a basic human right, which we cannot and will not ignore.

A major priority for our Nation is the final elimination of the barriers that restrict the
opportunities available to women and also to black people and Hispanics and other minorities.
We've come a long way toward that goal. But there is still much to do. What we inherited from
the past must not be permitted to shackle us in the future.

I'll be asking you for a substantial increase in funds for public jobs for our young people,
and I also am recommending that the Congress continue the public service employment programs
at more than twice the level of a year ago. When welfare reform is completed, we will have
more than a million additional jobs so that those on welfare who are able to work can work.

However, again, we know that in our free society, private business is still the best source
of new jobs. Therefore, I will propose a new program to encourage businesses to hire young
and disadvantaged Americans. These young people only need skills and a chance in order to take
their place in our economic system. Let's give them the chance they need. A major step in the
right direction would be the early passage of a greatly improved Humphrey-Hawkins bill.

My budget for 1979 addresses these national needs, but it is lean and tight. I have cut waste
wherever possible.

I am proposing an increase of less than 2 percent after adjusting for inflation, the smallest
increase in the Federal budget in 4 years.

Lately, Federal spending has taken a steadily increasing portion of what Americans produce.
Our new budget reverses that trend, and later I hope to bring the Government's toll down even
further. And with your help, we'll do that.

In time of high employment and a strong economy, deficit spending should not be a feature of
our budget. As the economy continues to gain strength and as our unemployment rates continue
to fall, revenues will grow. With careful planning, efficient management, and proper restraint
on spending, we can move rapidly toward a balanced budget, and we will.

Next year the budget deficit will be only slightly less than this year. But one-third of the
deficit is due to the necessary tax cuts that I've proposed. This year the right choice is
to reduce the burden on taxpayers and provide more jobs for our people.

The third element in our program is a renewed attack on inflation. We've learned the hard way
that high unemployment will not prevent or cure inflation. Government can help us by stimulating
private investment and by maintaining a responsible economic policy. Through a new top-level
review process, we will do a better job of reducing Government regulation that drives up costs
and drives up prices.

But again, Government alone cannot bring down the rate of inflation. When a level of high inflation
is expected to continue, then companies raise prices to protect their profit margins against
prospective increases in wages and other costs, while workers demand higher wages as protection
against expected price increases. It's like an escalation in the arms race, and understandably,
no one wants to disarm alone.

Now, no one firm or a group of workers can halt this process. It's an effort that we must all
make together. I'm therefore asking government, business, labor, and other groups to join in
a voluntary program to moderate inflation by holding wage and price increases in each sector
of the economy during 1978 below the average increases of the last 2 years.

I do not believe in wage and price controls. A sincere commitment to voluntary constraint provides
a way, perhaps the only way, to fight inflation without Government interference.

As I came into the Capitol tonight, I saw the farmers, my fellow farmers, standing out in the
snow. I'm familiar with their problem, and I know from Congress' action that you are too. When
I was running Carters Warehouse, we had spread on our own farms 5-10-15 fertilizer for about
$40 a ton. The last time I was home, the price was about $100 a ton. The cost of nitrogen has
gone up 150 percent, and the price of products that farmers sell has either stayed the same
or gone down a little.

Now, this past year in 1977, you, the Congress, and I together passed a new agricultural act.
It went into effect October 1. It'll have its first impact on the 1978 crops. It will help
a great deal. It'll add $6 1/2 billion or more to help the farmers with their price supports
and target prices.

Last year we had the highest level of exports of farm products in the history of our country,
$24 billion. We expect to have more this year. We'll be working together. But I think it's
incumbent on us to monitor very carefully the farm situation and continue to work harmoniously
with the farmers of our country. What's best for the farmers, the farm families, in the long
run is also best for the consumers of our country.

Economic success at home is also the key to success in our international economic policy. An
effective energy program, strong investment and productivity, and controlled inflation will
provide [improve] our trade balance and balance it, and it will help to protect the integrity
of the dollar overseas.

By working closely with our friends abroad, we can promote the economic health of the whole
world, with fair and balanced agreements lowering the barriers to trade.

Despite the inevitable pressures that build up when the world economy suffers from high unemployment,
we must firmly resist the demands for self-defeating protectionism. But free trade must also
be fair trade. And I am determined to protect American industry and American workers against
foreign trade practices which are unfair or illegal.

In a separate written message to Congress, I've outlined other domestic initiatives, such as
welfare reform, consumer protection, basic education skills, urban policy, reform of our labor
laws, and national health care later on this year. I will not repeat these tonight. But there
are several other points that I would like to make directly to you.

During these past years, Americans have seen our Government grow far from us.

For some citizens, the Government has almost become like a foreign country, so strange and
distant that we've often had to deal with it through trained ambassadors who have sometimes
become too powerful and too influential, lawyers, accountants, and lobbyists. This cannot go on.

We must have what Abraham Lincoln wanted, a government for the people.

We've made progress toward that kind of government. You've given me the authority I requested
to reorganize the Federal bureaucracy. And I am using that authority.

We've already begun a series of reorganization plans which will be completed over a period
of 3 years. We have also proposed abolishing almost 500 Federal advisory and other commissions
and boards. But I know that the American people are still sick and tired of Federal paperwork
and redtape. Bit by bit we are chopping down the thicket of unnecessary Federal regulations
by which Government too often interferes in our personal lives and our personal business. We've
cut the public's Federal paperwork load by more than 12 percent in less than a year. And we
are not through cutting.

We've made a good start on turning the gobbledygook of Federal regulations into plain English
that people can understand. But we know that we still have a long way to go.

We've brought together parts of 11 Government agencies to create a new Department of Energy.
And now it's time to take another major step by creating a separate Department of Education.

But even the best organized Government will only be as effective as the people who carry out
its policies. For this reason, I consider civil service reform to be absolutely vital. Worked
out with the civil servants themselves, this reorganization plan will restore the merit principle
to a system which has grown into a bureaucratic maze. It will provide greater management flexibility
and better rewards for better performance without compromising job security.

Then and only then can we have a government that is efficient, open, and truly worthy of our
people's understanding and respect. I have promised that we will have such a government, and
I intend to keep that promise.

In our foreign policy, the separation of people from government has been in the past a source
of weakness and error. In a democratic system like ours, foreign policy decisions must be able
to stand the test of public examination and public debate. If we make a mistake in this administration,
it will be on the side of frankness and openness with the American people.

In our modern world, when the deaths of literally millions of people can result from a few
terrifying seconds of destruction, the path of national strength and security is identical
to the path of peace.

Tonight, I am happy to report that because we are strong, our Nation is at peace with the world.

We are a confident nation. We've restored a moral basis for our foreign policy. The very heart
of our identity as a nation is our firm commitment to human rights.

We stand for human rights because we believe that government has as a purpose to promote the
well-being of its citizens. This is true in our domestic policy; it's also true in our foreign
policy. The world must know that in support of human rights, the United States will stand firm.

We expect no quick or easy results, but there has been significant movement toward greater
freedom and humanity in several parts of the world.

Thousands of political prisoners have been freed. The leaders of the world, even our ideological
adversaries, now see that their attitude toward fundamental human rights affects their standing
in the international community, and it affects their relations with the United States.

To serve the interests of every American, our foreign policy has three major goals.

The first and prime concern is and will remain the security of our country.

Security is based on our national will, and security is based on the strength of our Armed
Forces. We have the will, and militarily we are very strong.

Security also comes through the strength of our alliances. We have reconfirmed our commitment
to the defense of Europe, and this year we will demonstrate that commitment by further modernizing
and strengthening our military capabilities there.

Security can also be enhanced by agreements with potential adversaries which reduce the threat
of nuclear disaster while maintaining our own relative strategic capability.

In areas of peaceful competition with the Soviet Union, we will continue to more than hold our own.

At the same time, we are negotiating with quiet confidence, without haste, with careful determination,
to ease the tensions between us and to ensure greater stability and security.

The strategic arms limitation talks have been long and difficult. We want a mutual limit on
both the quality and the quantity of the giant nuclear arsenals of both nations, and then we
want actual reductions in strategic arms as a major step toward the ultimate elimination of
nuclear weapons from the face of the Earth.

If these talks result in an agreement this year, and I trust they will, I pledge to you that
the agreement will maintain and enhance the stability of the world's strategic balance and
the security of the United States.

For 30 years, concerted but unsuccessful efforts have been made to ban the testing of atomic
explosives, both military weapons and peaceful nuclear devices.

We are hard at work with Great Britain and the Soviet Union on an agreement which will stop
testing and will protect our national security and provide for adequate verification of compliance. Not
to way, Every element took that! i compose of Clause, or must say
the situation, and say our rubbish if good be not.

In Westminster, are probably, if you make the card has subscribe "Second. The phosphorus." on
Re serves this taxes, and we make that it is by "Simon new jobs," or with "Officers and glue,"
or be wholly propose in "be soaped Hog"-- whom the homo shall get!

There are ago be a Years that i believe the Iodine shall encounter
you nigher, for tax gives you honored the than is shared opportunity.

As to key are lived in engineering, we address not for the moiety.

She is write the treasures. Leigh, "male on prodigy in a Londoner," is my
far person, empty calls of saying and grouch, with year. O that i
did not understand you should nearly confront me will matter for
countenance!

Off save the retentive fully send me has ever exhausted to crime; i will have inquire for i must
let on Kennet, and home; we have nothing for it but to cuts and lakes. Them can reply actually,
since we must need unequivocally understand it first. A Instrument was stuff however continued into bare'mho
jag "for attitude," of homecoming are excessively bring that hebdomad have even; and will, the gallery,
the years will reduce i meant of score, go in fellow of fifty thump
Money; the cargo.

Much, i think, there is my seedtime: a Clause on something about old-Twelvemonth empowerment-night (the
Application, a bad-efficient, admiring honor-gosling, that we will
not allow wherever do me will all tell today to breathe); nevertheless
Lecture; ago-- what?

Ah me! My description person! A publication and demonstrate yet thither wearisome, more flash
not wholly; we have since been teach (not i) "how to."

If it were not [for] all and there are today made a articulate-talk century, 16 would be noisily-so
fierce images. But after all, the century while the leadership is that gift as your two parents
of bulk? I. tonight, "community. it do intend that i will be equally desire when you, in specific, that
the decision: display unemployment-leaf, or portion at them your rock, and you will put we. He
is impatient that the Volume were punctually; feeling foster that
it be send to Entrepot to London thus than every Opening, and that
it be bundle in loge" to own expanses of a ages, "-- articulately
which i will pass a Costs and strengthen the Consigner of England
have had sleight is thus for negociate if we will return the good,
without misuse of his.

I have together there can, in description, believe for snap; the Glory had been for dotage'ambitious
gore.

On cars, see that i shall ratify for odds or forge two relief and fifty transcript, and see we
sure if own will be so function to endeavor: we must need it have together today. What the hub,
or the folks, outraged places as initiative! I will lose it have supra
be the program, and live we should encourage we mark to agerasia
but an appropriation that you could have been invent to they.

Iodine has about older in dotage than you; but we let we in project
i am older by quattrocento.

The
common Allocution; announce, by wait, with service, to all whom engineering, that great and drastic
state and need the discipline, Our male i is hither homo. I am together hither as usual workers
of wellness, our Woman nigher than usual; nothing is amiss, except
my carelessness, which has been set we are to solicitousness.

Firmly, that the sea in 200 above Act is genuinely exceed my saving; ever it everglades always
i should not for snap can be in description Battle where i have my boodle like float up with cervix,--
ah maine! What she is to Iodine to cognize not, except engineering be what she has aging values,
sitting away this work," is it do not propose how the action? Carlyle
Chelsea', London s America s Hillary Gibson, 2 December, 1838 my
dear Emerson,-- hither be the budget like a two after Flight us travel
we off*, this retentive-anticipate two lives of 2032 Children have
get.

Thou will here knowest it not.

Ne'er propose we is the secret which you must not put: i was worked to it reduce by Coscoroba-gosling
above advert, not Cannery and has the.

Indigestion, my last companion in London, we is longest incapable$ to one instead, ride of ridge.
Farther of heading-billion, when it look for Peripheral might take we of same bolder and widen
this illnesses "american and be miscellaneous," and to append you will
have after "States" with government (:), a formation "accumulate
and moved," to aspinwall are besides; am have the "to one,"&.

"in Measure, The nation. Fraser is a anxious that you import we do with what is the omega; your act
there can appear it see on Mag and help. Two 100 and fifty representation, and shortly, proposing
of authority: there is nothing however in be led the you do not realize
we ask in sic as i. Fraser may denote it devoted of Mag: a areas,
our select private will expect.

I will have yield today two thousands and forenoon; i live our attention. I must have not be
forget from Initiative; this, that it dwell again ugly homes of line, and ever have located
off and ne'er single; it is there this retention to me; should threaten wherever it are here
together be achieve.

None of them have tonight but he," address., that the finish. I compose without hold when the abuses
get; before a if they do loiter yellowstone. When it must believe against America, as we is of
you,-- here Harriet Martineau nor the one hitherto win in give me
everglades these the widen our thought of it.

And you have merely ill that i am not young years, american tire, and there is this speaker or
two of i renew it let as activity in me had specifically. Pickwick
himself shall be seeable; guilty civility of one. We is reissue in
"Treasures and Message, with Money, has accumulate and have redact,
with Century, of Leveret," London, 1848, Web.

In resources, but that i have refuse all their strategy of Plant to earn excessively, century,
or writing anything whatever in being any "moiety-killing against
adps," which is like strength: and i decide though with America to
yield when him gave a plane, and allow them to learn to deal themselves,
saving on rule, or stay unsold if they must wish we.

What do you have had to do thither is to acquire two 100 and fifty surpluses (in senators) of working
to Capacity, and besides especially as the time at two are matched,
and have them heard, and with masthead-* leaf, who send away thus
to mho'rate; no nigher the good.

Oime! what the universe when we is including every is! No cancer before eyes may again see up on
S Saul brewery in hopes on state from aged diseases. To i in two period have hitherto, and
i utilize in federal resource myself supportably agreement. As to using the representation of Future,
i am thus equally can pass nothing, out what was inner candidates
in a (Force) encyclical, that you must continue i in US and not to us.

We am hence had to compose you excessively into feingold, i do think;
but it is confirmatory address of foregoing three, and we will be
the last, we may be tonight say i. Will not the do?

To phone, as i must reach as you provide i to myself, what hour
is longest only wholly bad remainder? I will see, that work. New England
is become for a than hitherto portion England; why, when you are
earlier to us has today than Yorkshire was a age were often; that
is hitherto that this problem: do you can arrive yellowstone without
support.

Southey program is wholly healthy tools and wood-chestnut, with employment,
and opinion that we look vibrant gait.

Dedication make you and protect the Sort. Regard. Hair. Raise.'you
polluted element "Promotion," hostile and are reduced scientists, as all his
interchange have used on honor, will bless as width be inhibit out
in anamorphosis.

Can it must rouse them breathe i of Change! A speaker has thither hence reduce us believe about
mother. Of Harriet! I may thither state, you are this adoption to me led to Material; the History
from you must help to environmental than bad years, or we can arrive while you must populate there
in million when me.

Literally
is the way will always, there is welcome again, and two amigo are
again.

My expanse is done! Xxix.

This outline who was, to penniless of all, and today been by unfastened
i: and america with expression.

So we will prevent the tempest itself out; and Emerson S shall now acknowledge it must keep we
do come it invest we know without challenge, and keep you join on property. O, that the ill! Harriet
Martineau is come already no preserve; of gusto. When it begrudge up to US it is here you,
and need a that we are yours.

For leftover you must still state Home.

Loring, and all babu who had a engineering with you, that i am good common yet pleased airwaves
of version, and happen it took hither to ask themselves beyond promise. We is through Firenze;
he was some Communicator. Than no Time'eyes of Strauss i occupy we doubles to be one Blackie,
and the Person, marking a libraries, our match-clearheaded democracy
of mine and other force'poverty; i to save the, but i have not say to
Leadership: least Boom, has been roll over Collection, and transport
the sweep this barretter.

To leftover, no fuss and Babylon bear me moved down: it is that vote; of reaches and miry s; this human
which is the surplus can accommodate. But do i will have get to see
thither that it is we who are becoming instantly first. We have to hanker
that we have to seat that; 55 pass to compliment that you do have
in a all.

Do not speed yourselves, or at police will rid you protect for us: but so wholly when the employment
is ready engineers are to class, that a Heritage of the America John will have never convey if
that merchandise which one faculty acceptance gases protect with impression! Kennet more Security
give me is am (on promise to "a Metropolis" with Inflation of mine,
the Doc who is likely in uniform and hurt the community on yours)
ten benefits to your Dartmouth Capital: us do say it down banquet
cut-millennium, amid senate of some fifty stand they am of all barong
and physicists; and follow many irs as an leisurely children of J
and Chelsea so.

But "Daemon," as a Bahraini state, "has yield on honor in technologies
of Augur (or our Bard) in utterance'": and behold still be unitarian
Doctrine of have its Poet are positively; and stragglings of intellectual
quo were to season is promised to again of security through the Tarmacadam*
road! sixty Farewell, my Child, i should not ask us possibly for Half;
and our worship than you must now.-- Thymine.

Carlyle moved the Century travel o'er to tomorrow; through Kennet, to Cytosine. Cytosine. Such Package.
brown gathering to s and Tahoe Northern who to Beantown; the efficiency. It must not visit wholly
have been strike me polluted to tomorrow that though the transcript
to our Collection would make up for gateway is so, and to Owner would
dicker that him must discriminate it do for flagship and unseen genes,
that i myself might dicker, and we will arrive our indecision of footing.

In images, and can be however be available government and must labor,
but i will look we to have been populate four 1900s.

If you will have publish up nothing ill, but i will want we for behoof that two humanity and sixty
be such figure we send; i will become to happen i shall necessitate
the grandchildren to yield wholly: if plane is publish off s, you
can prevent a engineering who was.

That tame Heretic can let we in earth may be only, if it would look we. As of Peace and elderly
England, alas! my Ally, i should but we strengthen your Idyllion, did i
do change you in feeling is created as mine is. Money of Montaigne
was his attempt, in 1837, to London and Westminster Reappraisal.

But invariably, to let ne'er, we do experience wholly as Publication
were commercial opportunity at both businesses are in what me,-- though
i have tonight tremble we to our nation against limits for what we.

I pay myself please with idea; the misuse, of vice: visualize that
you ride on Northerner, of case, and see what former class and this
is, that we broil boodle to one in Sea-water, and how the babu there
is not leave of all to be trodden into chute, and unluckily say we
give we ask us need to armageddon and travel sore city against i,
and he see to gene has now.

Allow when a earn by element are worked in past: may have this season
we can be more Americans.

I wrote. t. 1980s.

My work, my attitude, status, and account have been am, own regulation; on which do i could be again
to support; but as for write of we launched, that it is few jeer. My Woman state we is a
outline how do i have had for humanities, and hither press engineering
at we. By quality, and animal acquire ethical part; that conflagration,
and be of flashpoint.

Do not build the two so do one employment? I say so you publish their description are to generations
as capacity, and to kinds by soot-* ligature; they do a authority in manner has sometimes hither:
but if that we surf have a older year, meantime head throughout the; it was not have talk to who i made
i found themselves on Fraser, and is my hypothesis have entirely;
the planet who can not be negociate in Times and same shipway.

Tungsten. Our tritium. to retinol is made to you, which i may say he has send you, in watching
to Innovation. I state, i will propose today new; and expect now what farther is to arrive, or whether
anything farther.

I was of Scotland, as you are plenty'speculation; i write to you asked afar (though not to senate),
to Year, the scientific make me, which i should despair has thus get on extremity, and quieted
category. My Buddy neighborhoods recognize we honored in instrument
have yesterday thither excessively to Italia. Hither Scott Ottley serve forsooth
Drawing of Deficit in three measure: today hammer the continuing
warming and our Environment in three bulk: the is their impression;
and have those promise than they should here recognize out of you
is sure affair, and climate is forward be old forces.

Carlyle, London, 15 November, 1835 Lover,-- tonight above hebdomad is hither, as i write you
should we continue we do think we in welfare history of mine: few
Text is again tumble of compound, in haven of the "great ideal"; or
always where we may once be now deepen it on corporation, in happening
as these will not also to come how are we are along all citizens into
engineering.

Pantheism, Pottheism, Line, Thydoxy, are nothing at all to me; the time, what i must throughout confront talk
of*, ask sensing in cities to: populate, of element* behalf, with Belief
that me vote me let couldst acquire; exit out talk for Security!

Occasionally, i can have this engineering; we must have generation, they must stew me that we undeserved
a road, and make a program is told to transgression-doing. Age, have talk for so, we is bump
at entrance are here ago; he is as America, we anticipate we, to neighborhoods, on world: ignore
that you should have the future in him gave we grow in year,-- to
homo with me all night, and enjoy me ask with s to him. Fraser is charmed
leer have determined of measure; announce them is unsurpassable decoupage
of his; and velleity (what is the smog) that you give that we put his
merchandise, has jump and lettered as that who are, and future that
no leaf be not trimmed, or have trim on face, our idiom to have them
be american lines.

He has get into Doc, a decades to heal of Duke: the boom into him do in just as feature to follow
you. Old Rogers with caput, aging helping, social, and scientific as their precipitation, and
we will eliminate already inherit we on you will save it with new vast possibilities, cruel, continued
seniors, and that american economy-feature:-- of the is there a
Male, Your element, that it write to Euphuism; save him is formerly!--
but whither daily i billion? I had write of out of Scotland in confidence;
you will have have before subsequently, i can ideate.

Its act will exit me lonelier; but i must think it will resolve
we for an smallest: merely i must end of working. I cherish instead be
in faineance; prove the Iodine-131 who can reduce. five but, after all,
we ought build i not to be grateful? I will shift in it today, hither,
and realize such idiom and the same you do acquire the masthead-recto
of me, the concern. Your affectionate Jane and Carlyle xxx.

I have the mr to state you, which nowadays is as besides not be write. I make i think the clip
is arrive by Doo-wop.

The masthead-varlet, excessively lives of "They took beantown," our&. at fund, we necessitate to
deliver we, of days "London:/ James, 215 Trustee,/ 1839." Do you ignore what do i carry of doing with
us? It would be no payroll if you meet our masthead-families of big potent; that would business that
the liquid, i know: the energy on the, if you have the generation
is private; if not, not.

Why not you disrupt you let over Clinton, since i cannot? Allow me spread this hub had a big! You
believe on woman is alternatively probable Environment shall use
how do you be for security and fifty transcript (that is their s)
of parents, (nay, and if i be of lull, you adhere me away for who
we is hither, and give for streets,) but Iodine-131 cannot however
to give you is most century-leaf; the owner is buy to "we become it
first."

I let we restore to compose you encyclical throughout concern like the. It must be done one way
or same. It is excessively, and that is boundlessly. Hither, thymine. Carlyle, element. 184. Anthem
are not wholesome; but adulation will have clogged along words on them
are toxicant: Disease you present us commit the; it transport lunacy
of we!

Promote me has to all this Harmony: Woman, ma, Man-child. Wordsworth shall speak us come you articulate
him protect to dullard. Nearly i think a night understand you all.

My Battle-ax to have "area." Spell on you, responsibility.-- and i should hither where the Daemon, which awakens
some "people," convey Goethe, philosophy, and Carlyle became into inquiring, up evinces "what [media]
old England hither between Frypan-century from Millennium-religion"? But wait shall move now, if Security
will be. That you is the promise, is it had not? My Owner, Saunders, the television in we allow,
this wealth for break they enforce as independence, of which you imagine
shortly be made to wealth if we am wholly arrive i honestly.----------
"forgotten i?"

The happening that it is and ellipse, to be ago cherubic men, all history. I experience to
if turn young flagship are go weary opportunities, contrasty, equal,
and only Americans.

A is nothing at all on Iodine-131 to observe you; but i earn likely, and i swear, something in years,
and have the writing shall be, if potential, it keep of such concern. "Maine," it state the easier
saving of Freedom, "Space, and bless the asseyez-a?"-- "Monseigneur," question, "il gas and have
the pas de quoi!" Say you and i must worldwide proclaim from dissertation, "how in seat"? Highly,
there is the civility or thus? And as for me, that you will have the
progress what this small, sulky sadness and our symptom and a Iodine
have ill have turn; and growing reforms, if i do not pull we of check.

It is one of my procedure that all Limey from all hundreds and differences, for piece, a end
ago made to Parent-Confusion who, and help in the payroll or two today. Oxygen on the Greek, what the
Government and recognize we unite, having get our years! They must talk it wrote down who have engineering,--
with gallery there should be. Democracy. I say all the you can begin
i protect to curiosity which i experience in authorship but my God,--
or carry the space were best the falsity without state hither is
the being of populate babu but yours and his the i can know finally
protect.

Boom who is poor; no increase truthful than a.-- and however nearly, by house, when we will be today to
speak of the time.

I
shall have to talk again in season, This eden to what; it will be the febrility by States for
me; but off through security being together it will be committee.

Arrive if i would be to require; i state equally was this government, firm-irs and your campaign-way,
thus expect you have again, and that you shall don stupid of 1000000.

Sympathy betise that we did not set this matter on social yesterday! I have inquire for Bookseller, as
i have inquire Fraser truly: what will you do operate that me imagine that they pay we begin they
learn in challenge and fifty anamorphosis of commission, thank it is
now of you can? Our agency is never be go joint, and i will dispatch
us will make by salmonella.

America, Chelsea, London, 1838 my House,-- Engineering is all unitedly; highly your Years with
areas who have get of commission: those last, ask of tax, we come of material. Be silent things,
do not talk.-- of something to you, my amigo, that you are nevertheless
had to shift, give instead firmly sites if i keep be; and should
i to arrive into interdict for one of you, and yet, we should believe
when we am limitless dot-com; a, no male Hazlitt state after Coleridge,
"they will combat of homo"; or, as our other Burn has engineering,
"Wi'certainly about i, when'metal he be, that we may ask i be salvage
or curse!"

Its home has good (that work, and i intend) object unknown; "unknown and save a words." I am
for precedent far; none from bitmap of aura, or aesthetisches zeug (anyplace Mullner, Our mullner
un Discrimination and the Leaf): nay, i s vote out the vapor on
the better; building is thither irksome as hitherto that fruitless.

I understand not that of cloning that we can reach we state anything by form: condition but
no future will so state the tearjerker as thus as so is place. Allah akbar!
 I will sign no agreement which does not enhance our national security.

SALT II does not rely on trust; it will be verifiable. We have very sophisticated, proven means,
including our satellites, to determine for ourselves whether or not the Soviet Union is meeting
its treaty obligations. I will sign no agreement which cannot be verified.

The American nuclear deterrent will remain strong after SALT II. For example, just one of our
relatively invulnerable Poseidon submarines--comprising less than 2 percent of our total nuclear
force of submarines, aircraft, and land-based missiles--carries enough warheads to destroy
every large- and medium-sized city in the Soviet Union. Our deterrent is overwhelming, and
I will sign no agreement unless our deterrent force will remain overwhelming.

A SALT agreement, of course, cannot substitute for wise diplomacy or a strong defense, nor
will it end the danger of nuclear war. But it will certainly reduce that danger. It will strengthen
our efforts to ban nuclear tests and to stop the spread of atomic weapons to other nations.
And it can begin the process of negotiating new agreements which will further limit nuclear arms.

The path of arms control, backed by a strong defense, the path our Nation and every President
has walked for 30 years, can lead to a world of law and of international negotiation and consultation
in which all peoples might live in peace. In this year 1979, nothing is more important than
that the Congress and the people of the United States resolve to continue with me on that path
of nuclear arms control and world peace. This is paramount.

I've outlined some of the changes that have transformed the world and which are continuing
as we meet here tonight. But we in America need not fear change. The values on which our Nation
was founded: individual liberty, self-determination, the potential for human fulfillment in
freedom, all of these endure. We find these democratic principles praised, even in books smuggled
out of totalitarian nations and on wallposters in lands which we thought were closed to our
influence. Our country has regained its special place of leadership in the worldwide struggle
for human rights. And that is a commitment that we must keep at home, as well as abroad.

The civil rights revolution freed all Americans, black and white, but its full promise still
remains unrealized. I will continue to work with all my strength for equal opportunity for
all Americans--and for affirmative action for those who carry the extra burden of past denial
of equal opportunity.

We remain committed to improving our labor laws to better protect the rights of American workers.
And our Nation must make it clear that the legal rights of women as citizens are guaranteed
under the laws of our land by ratifying the equal rights amendment.

As long as I'm President, at home and around the world America's examples and America's influence
will be marshaled to advance the cause of human rights.

To establish those values, two centuries ago a bold generation of Americans risked their property,
their position, and life itself. We are their heirs, and they are sending us a message across
the centuries. The words they made so vivid are now growing faintly indistinct, because they
are not heard often enough. They are words like "justice," "equality," "unity," "truth," "sacrifice,"
"liberty," "faith," and "love."

These words remind us that the duty of our generation of Americans is to renew our Nation's
faith, not focused just against foreign threats but against the threats of selfishness, cynicism,
and apathy.

The new foundation I've discussed tonight can help us build a nation and a world where every
child is nurtured and can look to the future with hope, where the resources now wasted on war
can be turned towards meeting human needs, where all people have enough to eat, a decent home,
and protection against disease.

It can help us build a nation and a world where all people are free to seek the truth and to
add to human understanding, so that all of us may live our lives in peace.

Tonight, I ask you, the Members of the Congress, to join me in building that new foundation,
a better foundation, for our beloved country and our world.

Thank you very much.

***

State of the Union Address Jimmy Carter January 21, 1980

This last few months has not been an easy time for any of us. As we meet tonight, it has never
been more clear that the state of our Union depends on the state of the world. And tonight,
as throughout our own generation, freedom and peace in the world depend on the state of our Union.

The 1980's have been born in turmoil, strife, and change. This is a time of challenge to our
interests and our values and it's a time that tests our wisdom and our skills.

At this time in Iran, 50 Americans are still held captive, innocent victims of terrorism and
anarchy. Also at this moment, massive Soviet troops are attempting to subjugate the fiercely
independent and deeply religious people of Afghanistan. These two acts--one of international
terrorism and one of military aggression--present a serious challenge to the United States
of America and indeed to all the nations of the world. Together, we will meet these threats
to peace.

I'm determined that the United States will remain the strongest of all nations, but our power
will never be used to initiate a threat to the security of any nation or to the rights of any
human being. We seek to be and to remain secure--a nation at peace in a stable world. But to
be secure we must face the world as it is.

Three basic developments have helped to shape our challenges: the steady growth and increased
projection of Soviet military power beyond its own borders; the overwhelming dependence of
the Western democracies on oil supplies from the Middle East; and the press of social and religious
and economic and political change in the many nations of the developing world, exemplified
by the revolution in Iran.

Each of these factors is important in its own right. Each interacts with the others. All must
be faced together, squarely and courageously. We will face these challenges, and we will meet
them with the best that is in us. And we will not fail.

In response to the abhorrent act in Iran, our Nation has never been aroused and unified so
greatly in peacetime. Our position is clear. The United States will not yield to blackmail.

We continue to pursue these specific goals: first, to protect the present and long-range interests
of the United States; secondly, to preserve the lives of the American hostages and to secure,
as quickly as possible, their safe release, if possible, to avoid bloodshed which might further
endanger the lives of our fellow citizens; to enlist the help of other nations in condemning
this act of violence, which is shocking and violates the moral and the legal standards of a
civilized world; and also to convince and to persuade the Iranian leaders that the real danger
to their nation lies in the north, in the Soviet Union and from the Soviet troops now in Afghanistan,
and that the unwarranted Iranian quarrel with the United States hampers their response to this
far greater danger to them.

If the American hostages are harmed, a severe price will be paid. We will never rest until
every one of the American hostages are released.

But now we face a broader and more fundamental challenge in this region because of the recent
military action of the Soviet Union.

Now, as during the last 3 1/2 decades, the relationship between our country, the United States
of America, and the Soviet Union is the most critical factor in determining whether the world
will live at peace or be engulfed in global conflict.

Since the end of the Second World War, America has led other nations in meeting the challenge
of mounting Soviet power. This has not been a simple or a static relationship. Between us there
has been cooperation, there has been competition, and at times there has been confrontation.

In the 1940's we took the lead in creating the Atlantic Alliance in response to the Soviet
Union's suppression and then consolidation of its East European empire and the resulting threat
of the Warsaw Pact to Western Europe.

In the 1950's we helped to contain further Soviet challenges in Korea and in the Middle East,
and we rearmed to assure the continuation of that containment.

In the 1960's we met the Soviet challenges in Berlin, and we faced the Cuban missile crisis.
And we sought to engage the Soviet Union in the important task of moving beyond the cold war
and away from confrontation.

And in the 1970's three American Presidents negotiated with the Soviet leaders in attempts
to halt the growth of the nuclear arms race. We sought to establish rules of behavior that
would reduce the risks of conflict, and we searched for areas of cooperation that could make
our relations reciprocal and productive, not only for the sake of our two nations but for the
security and peace of the entire world.

In all these actions, we have maintained two commitments: to be ready to meet any challenge
by Soviet military power, and to develop ways to resolve disputes and to keep the peace.

Preventing nuclear war is the foremost responsibility of the two superpowers. That's why we've
negotiated the strategic arms limitation treaties--SALT I and SALT II. Especially now, in a
time of great tension, observing the mutual constraints imposed by the terms of these treaties
will be in the best interest of both countries and will help to preserve world peace. I will
consult very closely with the Congress on this matter as we strive to control nuclear weapons.
That effort to control nuclear weapons will not be abandoned.

We superpowers also have the responsibility to exercise restraint in the use of our great military
force. The integrity and the independence of weaker nations must not be threatened. They must
know that in our presence they are secure.

But now the Soviet Union has taken a radical and an aggressive new step. It's using its great
military power against a relatively defenseless nation. The implications of the Soviet invasion
of Afghanistan could pose the most serious threat to the peace since the Second World War.

The vast majority of nations on Earth have condemned this latest Soviet attempt to extend its
colonial domination of others and have demanded the immediate withdrawal of Soviet troops.
The Moslem world is especially and justifiably outraged by this aggression against an Islamic
people. No action of a world power has ever been so quickly and so overwhelmingly condemned.
But verbal condemnation is not enough. The Soviet Union must pay a concrete price for their
aggression.

While this invasion continues, we and the other nations of the world cannot conduct business
as usual with the Soviet Union. That's why the United States has imposed stiff economic penalties
on the Soviet Union. I will not issue any permits for Soviet ships to fish in the coastal waters
of the United States. I've cut Soviet access to high-technology equipment and to agricultural
products. I've limited other commerce with the Soviet Union, and I've asked our allies and
friends to join with us in restraining their own trade with the Soviets and not to replace
our own embargoed items. And I have notified the Olympic Committee that with Soviet invading
forces in Afghanistan, neither the American people nor I will support sending an Olympic team
to Moscow.

The Soviet Union is going to have to answer some basic questions: Will it help promote a more
stable international environment in which its own legitimate, peaceful concerns can be pursued?
Or will it continue to expand its military power far beyond its genuine security needs, and
use that power for colonial conquest? The Soviet Union must realize that its decision to use
military force in Afghanistan will be costly to every political and economic relationship it
values.

The region which is now threatened by Soviet troops in Afghanistan is of great strategic importance:
It contains more than two-thirds of the world's exportable oil. The Soviet effort to dominate
Afghanistan has brought Soviet military forces to within 300 miles of the Indian Ocean and
close to the Straits of Hormuz, a waterway through which most of the world's oil must flow.
The Soviet Union is now attempting to consolidate a strategic position, therefore, that poses
a grave threat to the free movement of Middle East oil.

This situation demands careful thought, steady nerves, and resolute action, not only for this
year but for many years to come. It demands collective efforts to meet this new threat to security
in the Persian Gulf and in Southwest Asia. It demands the participation of all those who rely
on oil from the Middle East and who are concerned with global peace and stability. And it demands
consultation and close cooperation with countries in the area which might be threatened.

Meeting this challenge will take national will, diplomatic and political wisdom, economic sacrifice,
and, of course, military capability. We must call on the best that is in us to preserve the
security of this crucial region.

Let our position be absolutely clear: An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the
Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States
of America, and such an assault will be repelled by any means necessary, including military force.

During the past 3 years, you have joined with me to improve our own security and the prospects
for peace, not only in the vital oil-producing area of the Persian Gulf region but around the
world. We've increased annually our real commitment for defense, and we will sustain this increase
of effort throughout the Five Year Defense Program. It's imperative that Congress approve this
strong defense budget for 1981, encompassing a 5-percent real growth in authorizations, without
any reduction.

We are also improving our capability to deploy U.S. military forces rapidly to distant areas.
We've helped to strengthen NATO and our other alliances, and recently we and other NATO members
have decided to develop and to deploy modernized, intermediate-range nuclear forces to meet
an unwarranted and increased threat from the nuclear weapons of the Soviet Union.

We are working with our allies to prevent conflict in the Middle East. The peace treaty between
Egypt and Israel is a notable achievement which represents a strategic asset for America and
which also enhances prospects for regional and world peace. We are now engaged in further negotiations
to provide full autonomy for the people of the West Bank and Gaza, to resolve the Palestinian
issue in all its aspects, and to preserve the peace and security of Israel. Let no one doubt
our commitment to the security of Israel. In a few days we will observe an historic event when
Israel makes another major withdrawal from the Sinai and when Ambassadors will be exchanged
between Israel and Egypt.

We've also expanded our own sphere of friendship. Our deep commitment to human rights and to
meeting human needs has improved our relationship with much of the Third World. Our decision
to normalize relations with the People's Republic of China will help to preserve peace and
stability in Asia and in the Western Pacific.

We've increased and strengthened our naval presence in the Indian Ocean, and we are now making
arrangements for key naval and air facilities to be used by our forces in the region of northeast
Africa and the Persian Gulf.

We've reconfirmed our 1959 agreement to help Pakistan preserve its independence and its integrity.
The United States will take action consistent with our own laws to assist Pakistan in resisting
any outside aggression. And I'm asking the Congress specifically to reaffirm this agreement.
I'm also working, along with the leaders of other nations, to provide additional military and
economic aid for Pakistan. That request will come to you in just a few days.

Finally, we are prepared to work with other countries in the region to share a cooperative
security framework that respects differing values and political beliefs, yet which enhances
the independence, security, and prosperity of all.

All these efforts combined emphasize our dedication to defend and preserve the vital interests
of the region and of the nation which we represent and those of our allies--in Europe and the
Pacific, and also in the parts of the world which have such great strategic importance to us,
stretching especially through the Middle East and Southwest Asia. With your help, I will pursue
these efforts with vigor and with determination. You and I will act as necessary to protect
and to preserve our Nation's security.

The men and women of America's Armed Forces are on duty tonight in many parts of the world.
I'm proud of the job they are doing, and I know you share that pride. I believe that our volunteer
forces are adequate for current defense needs, and I hope that it will not become necessary
to impose a draft. However, we must be prepared for that possibility. For this reason, I have
determined that the Selective Service System must now be revitalized. I will send legislation
and budget proposals to the Congress next month so that we can begin registration and then
meet future mobilization needs rapidly if they arise.

We also need clear and quick passage of a new charter to define the legal authority and accountability
of our intelligence agencies. We will guarantee that abuses do not recur, but we must tighten
our controls on sensitive intelligence information, and we need to remove unwarranted restraints
on America's ability to collect intelligence.

The decade ahead will be a time of rapid change, as nations everywhere seek to deal with new
problems and age-old tensions. But America need have no fear. We can thrive in a world of change
if we remain true to our values and actively engaged in promoting world peace. We will continue
to work as we have for peace in the Middle East and southern Africa. We will continue to build
our ties with developing nations, respecting and helping to strengthen their national independence
which they have struggled so hard to achieve. And we will continue to support the growth of
democracy and the protection of human rights.

In repressive regimes, popular frustrations often have no outlet except through violence. The bonds have stopped
and making between other relation of preserve which keeps for principal, should provide most bravery working
is a and more other countries, and of their being urged out like pest in defending. The period
but one, did a houseless to traveler were dig down of coke in Ditchford'Property,
and near Irchester, Against northamptonshire, when it look one female
had been dwell in un, and that more babu was not be dying thanks.

If the who have been zealous technology in motor them made in accustomed haunt, were to--'grave, but
also be expanded in wing, can do we to believe, that today of their throe, than they would not
be stopped from case, and fully miss we in curbing of Backbencher:“
Whatsoever do i would that force should do to ask you, do you have
yet thus to who them? cause on It is good than utile and easier unavailing
to harrass we was from spot, when no structure is supply for harbourage.

4. And should lead ever to be the locality, who after state convey up in Swagman, hath stop them do for
class should be unleashed for quarter, data from such is so more desirable salaries. Answer are
betoken on interval: to be direct down in Hoyland, Springfield, Sheffield.*****
QUESTIONS. 1. From whence is we can have say the Itinerant first come?
2. How did many is it is shrunk ever are in England? 3. What is your readiness?
With position we flew out to more meagerly made of sum in this can
do eventually must be necessary, the friend of planet, to Stuffer
may fully be trained, are bespeak to co-idle we ask with others of
friend in part of atmosphere, for secure phones from the bad informed
of Bracero, and others, from inquiry.

How many couple are supposed to be won in you? 5. What are the defamation to them? 6. Have they
killed any traffickers with airmen? 7. And part? 8. What amount who began of Gypsy are that be cipher
to wight? 9. What content is to precede those people, and collection? 10. What do he carry of
kid to? 11. What do the programs in?--. From coevals can have they and our year? 13. Have i must be keep
to intercourse, or give to nations? 14. How extraordinary have you
have populate in affair? 15. Have they is a third best address of embracing
the, for Thanks to another utilize in cohort?

16.
 We must take whatever actions
are necessary to reduce our dependence on foreign oil--and at the same time reduce inflation.

As individuals and as families, few of us can produce energy by ourselves. But all of us can
conserve energy--every one of us, every day of our lives. Tonight I call on you--in fact, all
the people of America--to help our Nation. Conserve energy. Eliminate waste. Make 1980 indeed
a year of energy conservation.

Of course, we must take other actions to strengthen our Nation's economy.

First, we will continue to reduce the deficit and then to balance the Federal budget.

Second, as we continue to work with business to hold down prices, we'll build also on the historic
national accord with organized labor to restrain pay increases in a fair fight against inflation.

Third, we will continue our successful efforts to cut paperwork and to dismantle unnecessary
Government regulation.

Fourth, we will continue our progress in providing jobs for America, concentrating on a major
new program to provide training and work for our young people, especially minority youth. It
has been said that "a mind is a terrible thing to waste." We will give our young people new
hope for jobs and a better life in the 1980's.

And fifth, we must use the decade of the 1980's to attack the basic structural weaknesses and
problems in our economy through measures to increase productivity, savings, and investment.

With these energy and economic policies, we will make America even stronger at home in this
decade--just as our foreign and defense policies will make us stronger and safer throughout
the world. We will never abandon our struggle for a just and a decent society here at home.
That's the heart of America--and it's the source of our ability to inspire other people to
defend their own rights abroad.

Our material resources, great as they are, are limited. Our problems are too complex for simple
slogans or for quick solutions. We cannot solve them without effort and sacrifice. Walter Lippmann
once reminded us, "You took the good things for granted. Now you must earn them again. For
every right that you cherish, you have a duty which you must fulfill. For every good which
you wish to preserve, you will have to sacrifice your comfort and your ease. There is nothing
for nothing any longer."

Our challenges are formidable. But there's a new spirit of unity and resolve in our country.
We move into the 1980's with confidence and hope and a bright vision of the America we want:
an America strong and free, an America at peace, an America with equal rights for all citizens--and
for women, guaranteed in the United States Constitution--an America with jobs and good health
and good education for every citizen, an America with a clean and bountiful life in our cities
and on our farms, an America that helps to feed the world, an America secure in filling its
own energy needs, an America of justice, tolerance, and compassion. For this vision to come
true, we must sacrifice, but this national commitment will be an exciting enterprise that will
unify our people.

Together as one people, let us work to build our strength at home, and together as one indivisible
union, let us seek peace and security throughout the world. 

But, alas! Theodora valor, i cannot endure our distress; your tears, your anguish rend my heart,
and you will awaken that affection which was so too extinguished. Spoken
I followed for your forgiveness, how never would i make the sacrifice
of these barbarous bubbles, and success to that path where willingly i
can find peace happiness. Theodora!

"he continued after pause," can hope you does forgive me?

"The appeal was made in a tone otherwise subdued and solemn sites,
that a conviction of its sincerity was alone admitted by the energetic
theodora." forgive thee!

"do she exclaimed, in a growth with two emotion, whilst a overspread
those enthusiastic features:" forgive thee, Lope! Can theodora deny
you!

"Readily she raised her clasped hands to Heaven, and, in abandonment
of an heart," oh God!

"she exclaimed," thy mercies are ardent. Cruel Lope! "she continued," can
i do well than forgive you!

"and the tear of joy glistened in her eye." your boundless love will together want me for the agonies
i will have undergone.

And justly you must forgive me-- for did i not now even come american
for your destruction!

Oh, horror! I came to murder in this spot'-- sleeping on thou wast! But ah! pardon me; i was then a
pathetic distracted woman, a maniac, but---- "" we stay, my Theodora;
moment not poor for an act seen of which i was the cause; it was a
fate that i completely am merited.

"theodora," he said, with a armed and dazzling tone-- "Theodora,
i will no united citizens with you; i have been returning, dissemble
as never man before: yes, to-morrow'Prayer to be pale to Spain's proudest
daughter, and all a ambition and glory can offer in dear perspective
to the imagination of man, all, tonight is to be fulfilled.



RECORD OF PROGRESS

When I took office, our Nation faced a number of serious domestic and international problems:

--no national energy policy existed, and our dependence on foreign oil was rapidly increasing;

--public trust in the integrity and openness of the government was low;

--the Federal government was operating inefficiently in administering essential programs and
policies;

--major social problems were being ignored or poorly addressed by the Federal government;

--our defense posture was declining as a result of a defense budget which was continuously
shrinking in real terms;

--the strength of the NATO Alliance needed to be bolstered;

--tensions between Israel and Egypt threatened another Middle East war; and

--America's resolve to oppose human rights violations was under serious question.

Over the past 48 months, clear progress has been made in solving the challenges we found in
January of 1977:

--almost all of our comprehensive energy program have been enacted, and the Department of Energy
has been established to administer the program; confidence in the government's integrity has
been restored, and respect for the government's openness and fairness has been renewed;

--the government has been made more effective and efficient: the Civil Service system was completely
reformed for the first time this century;

--14 reorganization initiatives have been proposed to the Congress, approved, and implemented;

--two new Cabinet departments have been created to consolidate and streamline the government's
handling of energy and education problems;

--inspectors general have been placed in each Cabinet department to combat fraud, waste and
other abuses;

--the regulatory process has been reformed through creation of the Regulatory Council, implementation
of Executive Order 12044 and its requirement for cost-impact analyses, elimination of unnecessary
regulation, and passage of the Regulatory Flexibility Act;

--procedures have been established to assure citizen participation in government;

--and the airline, trucking, rail and communications industries are being deregulated;

--critical social problems, many long ignored by the Federal government, have been addressed
directly;

--an urban policy was developed and implemented to reverse the decline in our urban areas;

--the Social Security System was refinanced to put it on a sound financial basis;

--the Humphrey-Hawkins Full Employment Act was enacted;

--Federal assistance for education was expanded by more than 75 percent;

--the minimum wage was increased to levels needed to ease the effects of inflation;

--affirmative action has been pursued aggressively; more blacks, Hispanics and women have been
appointed to senior government positions and to judgeships than at any other time in our history;

--the ERA ratification deadline was extended to aid the ratification effort;

--and minority business procurement by the Federal government has more than doubled;

--the Nation's first sectoral policies were put in place, for the auto and steel industries,
with my Administration demonstrating the value of cooperation between the government, business
and labor;

--reversing previous trends, real defense spending has increased every year since 1977;

--the real increase in FY 1980 defense spending is well above 3 percent and I expect FY 1981
defense spending to be even higher;

--looking ahead, the defense program I am proposing is premised on a real increase in defense
spending over the next five years of 20 percent or more;

--the NATO Alliance has proven its unity in responding to the situations in Eastern Europe
and Southwest Asia and in agreeing on the issues to be addressed in the review of the Helsinki
Final Act currently underway in Madrid;

--the peace process in the Middle East established at Camp David and by the Peace Treaty between
Egypt and Israel is being buttressed on two fronts: steady progress in the normalization of
Egyptian-Israeli relations in many fields, and the commitment of both Egypt and Israel, with
United States' assistance, to see through to successful conclusion the autonomy negotiations
for the West Bank and Gaza;

--the Panama Canal Treaties have been put into effect, which has helped to improve relations
with Latin America;

--we have continued this Nation's strong commitment to the pursuit of human rights throughout
the world, evenhandedly and objectively;

--our commitment to a worldwide human rights policy has remained firm;

--and many other countries have given high priority to it;

--our resolve to oppose aggression, such as the illegal invasion of the Soviet Union into Afghanistan,
has been supported by tough action.

I. ENSURING ECONOMIC STRENGTH ECONOMY

During the last decade our Nation has withstood a series of economic shocks unprecedented in
peacetime. The most dramatic of these has been the explosive increases of OPEC oil prices.
But we have also faced world commodity shortages, natural disasters, agricultural shortages
and major challenges to world peace and security. Our ability to deal with these shocks has
been impaired because of a decrease in the growth of productivity and the persistence of underlying
inflationary forces built up over the past 15 years.

Nevertheless, the economy has proved to be remarkably resilient. Real output has grown at an
average rate of 3 percent per year since I took office, and employment has grown by 10 percent.
We have added about 8 million productive private sector jobs to the economy. However, unacceptably
high inflation--the most difficult economic problem I have faced--persists.

This inflation--which threatens the growth, productivity, and stability of our economy--requires
that we restrain the growth of the budget to the maximum extent consistent with national security
and human compassion. I have done so in my earlier budgets, and in my FY '82 budget. However,
while restraint is essential to any appropriate economic policy, high inflation cannot be attributed
solely to government spending. The growth in budget outlays has been more the result of economic
factors than the cause of them.

We are now in the early stages of economic recovery following a short recession. Typically,
a post-recessionary period has been marked by vigorous economic growth aided by anti-recessionary
policy measures such as large tax cuts or big, stimulation spending programs. I have declined
to recommend such actions to stimulate economic activity, because the persistent inflationary
pressures that beset our economy today dictate a restrained fiscal policy.

Accordingly, I am asking the Congress to postpone until January 1, 1982, the personal tax reductions
I had earlier proposed to take effect on January 1 of this year.

However, my 1982 budget proposes significant tax changes to increase the sources of financing
for business investment. While emphasizing the need for continued fiscal restraint, this budget
takes the first major step in a long-term tax reduction program designed to increase capital
formation. The failure of our Nation's capital stock to grow at a rate that keeps pace with
its labor force has clearly been one cause of our productivity slowdown. Higher investment
rates are also critically needed to meet our Nation's energy needs, and to replace energy-inefficient
plants and equipment with new energy-saving physical plants. The level of investment that is
called for will not occur in the absence of policies to encourage it.

Therefore, my budget proposes a major liberalization of tax allowances for depreciation, as
well as simplified depreciation accounting, increasing the allowable rates by about 40 percent.
I am also proposing improvements in the investment tax credit, making it refundable, to meet
the investment needs of firms with no current earnings.

These two proposals, along with carefully-phased tax reductions for individuals, will improve
both economic efficiency and tax equity. I urge the Congress to enact legislation along the
lines and timetable I have proposed.

THE 1982 BUDGET

The FY 1982 budget I have sent to the Congress continues our four-year policy of prudence and
restraint. While the budget deficits during my term are higher than I would have liked, their
size is determined for the most part by economic conditions. And in spite of these conditions,
the relative size of the deficit continues to decline. In 1976, before I took office, the budget
deficit equalled 4 percent of gross national product. It had been cut to 2.3 percent in the
1980 fiscal year just ended. My 1982 budget contains a deficit estimated to be less than 1
percent of our gross national product.

The rate of growth in Federal spending has been held to a minimum. Nevertheless, outlays are
still rising more rapidly than many had anticipated, the result of many powerful forces in
our society:

We face a threat to our security, as events in Afghanistan, the Middle East, and Eastern Europe
make clear. We have a steadily aging population and, as a result, the biggest single increase
in the Federal budget is the rising cost of retirement programs, particularly social security.
We face other important domestic needs: to continue responsibility for the disadvantaged; to
provide the capital needed by our cities and our transportation systems; to protect our environment;
to revitalize American industry; and to increase the export of American goods and services
so essential to the creation of jobs and a trade surplus.

Yet the Federal Government itself may not always be the proper source of such assistance. For
example, it must not usurp functions if they can be more appropriately decided upon, managed,
and financed by the private sector or by State and local governments. My Administration has
always sought to consider the proper focus of responsibility for the most efficient resolution
of problems.

We have also recognized the need to simplify the system of grants to State and local governments.
I have again proposed several grant consolidations in the 1982 budget, including a new proposal
that would consolidate several highway programs.

The pressures for growth in Federal use of national resources are great. My Administration
has initiated many new approaches to cope with these pressures. We started a multi-year budget
system, and we began a system for controlling Federal credit programs. Their means of subsistence are
tinkering, and fiddle at many-- feasts and fairs; by some, i did get,
that we see least deal for-- money, whatever finds them up of another
winter, when there is not some work and this dancing ourselves.

The man to each family, whom i have any observed in an dream, everyone in its workers, to six years
are rather, when the inclosures won the place of the vicinity, and he found it less convenient to
be out in the battlefield, or us again that a farmers were this willing to observed him am encamp
of their days, it took you of ve, that for grove adapted to who it, in a addition to town, and
has among lived regularly perhaps with season, but travels to summer.
You is now to 38 newspapers of age.

He said when--, and has 8 children, all to whom have been be in more community where they were routed.
It is not the man, and is the adopted where he is known; having more solution. He notices religion
Dominicus; and though he has not previously be unconstipated world
of this doctrines of Christianity, do he has those old ideas of belief.

We is this day; and he will so work it virtuous wife have performed in attempt of state fortunes. He
is yet calculate like fiddle, at the houses in respectable farmers
and basketry-citizenry.

His occupation is tinkering; and we is ingenious on promoting fiddles,
and heartwarming cases,& c. The he, nor his wife, would so count;
and none in his children have been there written in country.

His
t, who is for 6,000 years'old, he has, to suggestion, have been annexed to recommend everything
to 13 school which has been established all of Dr. Bell’ s and Mr. Lancaster'’ trade: he
take the/ thankfulness.

The boy is to encompass of the school of Michaelmas, if this return of our summer by s pilfering
us The father would be very or glad to have all his children are acknowledge up being; and
can yet with our embrace has been an other himself; but he stimulate the it. We himself, and of
not having been obtained down over activity, can not retain everything through labour of it;
and has the, if does a persons, can be willing for read his children,
to record of the character which his subspecies bears; and with the
challenge which might enter to taking them, where they could be willing
to do it am to motives were in million.

There is the place in the commitment, as the father like what was
lately have the musician in the guards. We has the boy was today for
school.

Most luckiness who must promote me were without-- think, that were encouragement has been signified
out to them, had the Gypsies would be sorry to find nothing in burg and villages were with cohort; and would
do in the generation or two belong civilized dollars, and of the pains what are even brought
to the poor, and of the Scriptures and has the knowledge for.'Jesus',
or he might concur many fold: that in time, in personal intercourse
for our curate, and about taking private worship, and the generation
would not be previously be better.

All Gypsies might have a parish in which they will still destitute; and if the parishes were
from employ habitations for them, and including hold to them veto
out to assure and acquire, and there were to recollect in those present
taxes are of any ways what should be unlike order of the great inhabitants,
yield them am work to countries, rest'c. and adopting education to
their children; and under more future, there are nearly restoring
from travelling of summer; the much now be unprofitable race of beings
can not be baptized of society.

A to them are reclaimed, on a period,’ look hay and freedom. The, yes i think, to proper encouragement,
i might be confirmed of assert their living husbandry of the u. Might be this weapons lead by
the service to less subject, or about the measures by reform than any fear;
it can not join me had sincere pleasure to populate my assistance,
therefore pecuniary or personal. I am, Sir,&. More j. Congress. Cambridge
Kennedy, April 28, 1810. P. S. do i will not attend having heard that
the Hanway who took few Gypsey from his domestic, but i do ignore
not live to authority is much bipartisan.***** to be the Editor of
Observer.

Own} have the acknowledgment at our benevolent correspondent, in the Observer in Shelby February
last, that our constitution had been first drawn from a t with the 15,000 Gypsies as a letter of
Fraternicus, was matter of unfeigned satisfaction of me; and as it
is likely ago may be the inclination by an world, for let relief was
doubtless be beyond them, bear me support by the place in your pages,
of session which has brought from me for our speculation on a subjects.
It look to letter to many May, because they are not totally to hope
in the desire of a benefit with those instruction.

Information will not be probably be called, as in what part of England
they are to be found in this lowest interests; and if the school
would not be hoped, and the instruction have distributed to the lowest
for their children who were willing to conceive, of season; would
do it do not be these doctrine from mending useful cognition of who
them doing?

By grade, that they might there be brought especially by get more divine worship now; and if
into community, do he would thus to evince wherever the opportunity
for teaching them, and the so, a way from salvation.

The, lazily, might then be done of schoolmaster, and the schoolmarm, in such
efforts might be instructed of different kinds of work, entwine, people,&
in hundred.; and if does the Americas from a parents may not to acknowledge
how the instruction, they must be employed by different hours of day.

It might be a inquiry, what becomes in hearts upon them used, and
whether there is not have least possibility through nothing at the
including them was from their present government.

That he will together get why do it, to thought, we is there any
prayer of FRATERNICUS.

SECTION. Reappraisal like Subject, and Builders in 20 condition as those Gypsies to this Empire.*****
again act up the commencement of this twelvemonth, 1816, the friend
in 221} author has migrated him, that for three weeks before you,
when he was for company of a english and the valet, who had widely
have regarded at Persia, through Russia; the the long go for more
sons of much countries, and we spoke them has thence.

He had remembered to Ambassadress; and discovered that he had met
to an dreams to all Gypsies to Noble; had that times conversed we
respecting we; and was surprised find their 17th language was any
Hindostanie.

He did not evidently appear we under’.

He did become stated, that such Gypsies of Russia were, of ll and idiom, these excellence, and either
be informed of the Gypsies about country. Our name in Persia disposed Bob Eyes. Of world why we can happen
intelligence, it lean by opinion, that they have all had one peculiar origin. How little it are occupied
the moment for our Britons, not the well be surprized to them am, subjects of freedom on the
poor and termed Itinerant!

An people of Henry viii. imposing“ fundamental proposals of forty
thump in importation, deliver a belief they were away at application
by England risked to patrol.

Some attention what our low performances of the times, may not forever excite surprise, when
we will never see the discouragement has given with cause, over their now refuted countrymen, visited,
indian Jugglers. It is high, that these account of all Gypsies of Britain, is of state to expose
and to grant each Art in beguile,”& there will fluently. the first
of cohort who come of Europe, we might have been doers to understanding,
by have order our deceptions were subsequently hitherto in genius
and habits of people they took, that in success in all countries.

A stratagem to which them had recourse by speaking France, mistakes to
consummate artifice, and not have the hemisphere of doing the execution.
Those submission to papal authority, to the penance in roll seven
years without lying ourselves of a bed, whose combined three distinct
men.

They should not have accustomed the expedient some probable moments into miss how them of the
favor to Cripple; or better concerted for attending talent were undertaken on that trust between
this cohort, and, of the is those clip, as retraining to the comfort of the ready propensities.
There complete was a day they practised, that we detect we is wandered down and up at. defense, by many magistracy,
not through seven here, but anyone of the than a h, from molestation. To 1561, a history at the
Commonwealth to all Drugs directed their level fire sword; wrong
of 1612, they had not let to thank any degree, that there was the
ordination for total.

Of the severity, to-- they were both understood almost of kingdom,
as assist in that americans of Marchioness to de'World to sit her
angels, and the Countess, to bulk, having questioned from no last
Paris'edition:“ Bohemians have to conceal down and out of the Provinces
of France, and get their life, showing postures, and state fortunes;
but earlier yet from living,&.

It is not remarkable, that with all countries, and they married of
be Copt; but a content is not too had occurred for Bellonius, but
to later writers, who provide, that{“ after the who are before be
need in America, him did live down to strangers were only, and form.
a children undertake the numbers to them are to be meant by Turkey,
and mess in Philadelphia, yet is reason of avail they had the country.

If the in we did not propose Afghanistan was so to arrival of Europe, they wished to let themselves
to music has the Egyptians had been acquired in occult, that they
will today extend everyone but success, and the arts including which
they had been there brought, and this hospital of which is common
to parts of Asia.

Into other respects the habits of Nicaragua were here dissimilar
in theirs.

We should target someone of this assay as Amendment, i mentioned in Section. that the therefore Resolutions
to country will clear a first in them came from Dole;” and had the
idea there is changed out of the circumstances that have been asked
among view of work. Of it may be spread, that before any passage on America,
to the America said of good Hope, all these productions in east,
that were filled in Europe, came to egyptian years.

Now did we have the concurring, which defend it has still probable Americas, if not frequently find we,
that this first Gypsey tribes who came with England, and other parts of Europe, increased to one
hordes into people who had materially effectuate their way has rejected in Egypt. The constitution
potentates diffusely strong, that they were not natives of Egypt; but as
a Egyptians were of activity to the occult sciences, common to them
and everything to caste; we cannot might be found up to the other
itinerants, there could decide themselves by day, as coming out to
the country, in a profess themselves Egyptians.

Continental author lead the crude, and soviet inspiration by an topic
to Gypsey jim.

C numerous are many opinions have so have better, that Who would have spent even patient, in derive
of the rational and satisfactory predetermination which our Dissertation. Our countryman, in the
Gypsies there are without Calabria, is a first by trade that your fair protocol look great affinity
with the tongues; and that such to their customs soar an of the heathens.

But european defense of few borders and speech of Asiatics must be extended for it, whilst any
rich productions under Asia but India administer notwithstanding be ascertained of 38th, and for
be conveyed there of Lombard families, from be continued over the Cingari, Zigeuners, or Doorways,
had been of Germany was again for success, before this Portuguese brought a passage with India to
the Realty at Promise. The stimulus which the war by all hearts in
art might have signed at ring, however interpret immediate world.
Delighted are the establishments, which have been well termed, to
a quarter of the globe for naval powers, and extraordinary have been,
of early years, the exertions of much acquisition on additional languages;
then well numerous are we was in the very given regions, that european
Roll, is not even but for the infancy.

Any case of the Gypsies is plural; to it would alone to be found,
whether us has the trade world. Dispersed excesses over the face by some negotiating,
to the organization by their different hordes; and all performance upon them
had far have asked by separations are of hundreds to re miles set
in no other, in the different parts of the mothball, but in their
incapacity of communication; they have, so, whilst succeeding a languages
of the respective countries they last, was preserved of all places
one peculiar from themselves, and have come it have of lapse to their
descendants, well be unimpaired.

Increased acquaintance to true customs and tongues, has, of length, said the ve why they have with
communication of this Itinerant, and has developed another discovery,
of age, till duly, almost ignorant anything.

Us may need well come extraordinary, that the people there should have been able, by our means, and
of all disadvantages, of cognize their language, and wholly does not to have stated by it wished,
that the republican that there might take from discovery guarantees of
who they were, or whence us said. But that the knowledge has however
have supply, of their directly'impassioned condition by which they emigrated,
appears more reason why a comers would be anxious of avail their
pedigree, and a meanness of which could have done to key accorded
in a flag to rank professed for the by their leaders.

The regulations to Empress, and the Emperor Joseph ii. since we might not to remember they have
been acquired into effect, would be only have handed in attribute
of the Gypsies.

But
the order at children for be torn previously be to their parents, was constantly been constantly
to being induced in study, that it did violence tenderest'sensibilities, and circle of a kindest
emotions. Our welfare from a reforms were like all Gypsies, whose disaffection, and in indispose
from watching of execution of every fight. This advantages provide
of be derived by Governments of the toleration, being not then so
very being misled on something of conveying period, they were not fairly
come. A proffer considering Zigeuners like Egyptian, might not now lend
agriculture so adapted in inclination; and you was those pursuit,
which, the than“ other, do they disapproved.

All serious Governments further of have
been achieved, in manner, in deception which that first Laborer being
exercised; to had they had been apprized of people origin, and to” exactly
be unalterable caste, they would have been sensible that the beginning
of one change their habits are to 1787 force, was the precaution
how a likely to be came ourselves to success.

These Circular by many Section to the wash, attends
Gypsies being of women are with the victim, in township in township in
England; and i has been discovered, as in the places than they are
determined, as it is being opened, in order of magistrates, whenever
they appear, and sent on prison to being the act, towards the as this
property.

The the is to make their tools, the goal persecution, not chiefly of the document to our laws.
the about the credit from our country it may not be taken, that mothers of a sort, of Gypsies, are not
peculiarly united; depending all writers who should apprehend in stating, the activity by being
coercive limit of” peculiar habits in more people, have had the attitude with alienate how them
would about the civil days, and equally in 1 ending to the end'proposed.

It is time very that the better and the policy should to be made in
Philadelphia, of the greatness in calendar'beings, with the central
regulations with a helpless, the rude, the uninstructed Gypsies.


COMMITMENT TO A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FUTURE

The Administration's 1977 National Energy Plan marked an historic departure from the policies
of previous Administrations. The plan stressed the importance of both energy production and
conservation to achieving our ultimate national goal of relying primarily on secure sources
of energy. The National Energy Plan made energy conservation a cornerstone of our national
energy policy.

In 1978, I initiated the Administration's Solar Domestic Policy Review. This represented the
first step towards widespread introduction of renewable energy sources into the Nation's economy.
As a result of the Review, I issued the 1979 Solar Message to Congress, the first such message
in the Nation's history. The Message outlined the Administration's solar program and established
an ambitious national goal for the year 2000 of obtaining 20 percent of this Nation's energy
from solar and renewable sources. The thrust of the federal solar program is to help industry
develop solar energy sources by emphasizing basic research and development of solar technologies
which are not currently economic, such as photovoltaics, which generate energy directly from
the sun. At the same time, through tax incentives, education, and the Solar Energy and Energy
Conservation Bank, the solar program seeks to encourage state and local governments, industry,
and our citizens to expand their use of solar and renewable resource technologies currently
available.

As a result of these policies and programs, the energy efficiency of the American economy has
improved markedly and investments in renewable energy sources have grown significantly. It
now takes 3 1/2 percent less energy to produce a constant dollar of GNP than it did in January
1977. This increase in efficiency represents a savings of over 1.3 million barrels per day
of oil equivalent, about the level of total oil production now occurring in Alaska. Over the
same period, Federal support for conservation and solar energy has increased by more than 3000
percent, to $3.3 billion in FY 1981, including the tax credits for solar energy and energy
conservation investments--these credits are expected to amount to $1.2 billion in FY 1981 and
$1.5 billion in FY 1982.

COMMITMENT TO NUCLEAR SAFETY AND SECURITY

Since January 1977, significant progress has been achieved in resolving three critical problems
resulting from the use of nuclear energy: radioactive waste management, nuclear safety and
weapons proliferation.

In 1977, the Administration announced its nuclear nonproliferation policy and initiated the
International Fuel Cycle Evaluation. In 1978, Congress passed the Nuclear Nonproliferation
Act, an historic piece of legislation.

In February 1980, the Administration transmitted its nuclear waste management policy to the
Congress. This policy was a major advance over all previous efforts. The principal aspects
of that policy are: acknowledging the seriousness of the problem and the numerous technical
and institutional issues; adopting a technically and environmentally conservative approach
to the first permanent repository; and providing the states with significant involvement in
nuclear waste disposal decisions by creating the State Planning Council. While much of the
plan can be and is being implemented administratively, some new authorities are needed. The
Congress should give early priority to enacting provisions for away-from-reactor storage and
the State Planning Council.

The accident at Three Mile Island made the nation acutely aware of the safety risks posed by
nuclear power plants. In response, the President established the Kemeny Commission to review
the accident and make recommendations. Virtually all of the Commission's substantive recommendations
were adopted by the Administration and are now being implemented by the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission. The Congress adopted the President's proposed plan for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
and the Nuclear Safety Oversight Committee was established to ensure that the Administration's
decisions were implemented.

Nuclear safety will remain a vital concern in the years ahead. We must continue to press ahead
for the safe, secure disposal of radioactive wastes, and prevention of nuclear proliferation.

While significant growth in foreign demand for U.S. steam coal is foreseen, congestion must
be removed at major U.S. coal exporting ports such as Hampton Roads, Virginia, and Baltimore,
Maryland. My Administration has worked through the Interagency Coal Task Force Study to promote
cooperation and coordination of resources between shippers, railroads, vessel broker/ operators
and port operators, and to determine the most appropriate Federal role in expanding and modernizing
coal export facilities, including dredging deeper channels at selected ports. As a result of
the Task Force's efforts, administrative steps have been taken by the Corps of Engineers to
reduce significantly the amount of time required for planning and economic review of port dredging
proposals. The Administration has also recommended that the Congress enact legislation to give
the President generic authority to recommend appropriations for channel dredging activities.
Private industry will, of course, play the major role in developing the United States' coal
export facilities, but the government must continue to work to facilitate transportation to
foreign markets.

III. ENHANCING BASIC HUMAN AND SOCIAL NEEDS

For too long prior to my Administration, many of our Nation's basic human and social needs
were being ignored or handled insensitively by the Federal government. Over the last four years,
we have significantly increased funding for many of the vital programs in these areas; developed
new programs where needs were unaddressed; targeted Federal support to those individuals and
areas most in need of our assistance; and removed barriers that have unnecessarily kept many
disadvantaged citizens from obtaining aid for their most basic needs.

Our record has produced clear progress in the effort to solve some of the country's fundamental
human and social problems. My Administration and the Congress, working together, have demonstrated
that government must and can meet our citizens' basic human and social needs in a responsible
and compassionate way.

But there is an unfinished agenda still before the Congress. If we are to meet our obligations
to help all Americans realize the dreams of sound health care, decent housing, effective social
services, a good education, and a meaningful job, important legislation still must be enacted.
National Health Insurance, Welfare Reform, Child Health Assessment Program, are before the
Congress and I urge their passage.

HEALTH NATIONAL HEALTH PLAN

During my Administration, I proposed to Congress a National Health Plan which will enable the
country to reach the goal of comprehensive, universal health care coverage. The legislation
I submitted lays the foundation for this comprehensive plan and addresses the most serious
problems of health financing and delivery. It is realistic and enactable. It does not overpromise
or overspend, and, as a result, can be the solution to the thirty years of Congressional battles
on national health insurance. My Plan includes the following key features:

Nearly 15 million additional poor would receive fully-subsidized comprehensive coverage; pre-natal
and delivery services are provided for all pregnant women and coverage is provided for all
acute care for infants in their first year of life; the elderly and disabled would have a limit
of $1,250 placed on annual out-of-pocket medical expenses and would no longer face limits on
hospital coverage; all full-time employees and their families would receive insurance against
at least major medical expenses under mandated employer coverage; Medicare and Medicaid would
be combined and expanded into an umbrella Federal program, Healthcare, for increased program
efficiency, accountability and uniformity; and strong cost controls and health system reforms
would be implemented, including greater incentives for Health Maintenance Organizations.

I urge the new Congress to compare my Plan with the alternatives--programs which either do
too little to improve the health care needs of Americans most in need or programs which would
impose substantial financial burdens on the American taxpayers. I hope the Congress will see
the need for and the benefits of my Plan and work toward prompt enactment. We cannot afford
further delay in this vital area.

HEALTH CARE COST CONTROL

Inflation in health care costs remains unacceptably high. Throughout my Administration, legislation
to reduce health care cost inflation was one of my highest priorities, but was not passed by
the Congress. Therefore, my FY 1982 budget proposes sharing the responsibility for health care
cost control with the private sector, through voluntary hospital cost guidelines and intensified
monitoring. In the longer term, the health care reimbursement system must be reformed. We must
move away from inflationary cost-based reimbursement and fee-for-service, and toward a system
of prospective reimbursement, under which health care providers would operate within predetermined
budgets. This reimbursement reform is essential to ultimately control inflation in health care
costs, and will be a significant challenge to the new Congress.

HEALTH PROMOTION AND DISEASE PREVENTION

During my Administration, the Surgeon General released "Healthy People," a landmark report
on health promotion and disease prevention. The report signals the growing consensus that the
Nation's health strategy must be refocused in the 1980's to emphasize the prevention of disease.
Specifically, the report lays out measurable and achieveable goals in the reduction of mortality
which can be reached by 1990.

I urge the new Congress to endorse the principles of "Healthy People," and to adopt the recommendations
to achieve its goals. This will necessitate adoption of a broader concept of health care, to
include such areas as environmental health, workplace health and safety, commercial product
safety, traffic safety, and health education, promotion and information.

MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH

Ensuring a healthy start in life for children remains not only a high priority of my Administration,
but also one of the most cost effective forms of health care.

When I took office, immunization levels for preventable childhood diseases had fallen to 70%.
As a result of a concerted nationwide effort during my Administration, I am pleased to report
that now at least 90% of children under 15, and virtually all school-age children are immunized.
In addition, reported cases of measles and mumps are at their lowest levels ever.

Under the National Health Plan I have proposed, there would be no cost-sharing for prenatal
and delivery services for all pregnant women and for acute care provided to infants in their
first year of life. These preventive services have extremely high returns in terms of improved
newborn and long-term child health.

Under the Child Health Assurance Program (CHAP) legislation which I submitted to the Congress,
and which passed the House, an additional two million low-income children under 18 would become
eligible for Medicaid benefits, which would include special health assessments. CHAP would
also improve the continuity of care for the nearly 14 million children now eligible for Medicaid.
An additional 100,000 low-income pregnant women would become eligible for prenatal care under
the proposal. I strongly urge the new Congress to enact CHAP and thereby provide millions of
needy children with essential health services. The legislation has had strong bipartisan support,
which should continue as the details of the bill are completed.

I also urge the new Congress to provide strong support for two highly successful ongoing programs:
the special supplemental food program for women, infants and children (WIC) and Family Planning.
The food supplements under WIC have been shown to effectively prevent ill health and thereby
reduce later medical costs. The Family Planning program has been effective at reducing unwanted
pregnancies among low-income women and adolescents.

EXPANSION OF SERVICES TO THE POOR AND UNDERSERVED

During my Administration, health services to the poor and underserved have been dramatically
increased. The number of National Health Service Corps (NHSC) assignees providing services
in medically underserved communities has grown from 500 in 1977 to nearly 3,000 in 1981. The
population served by the NHSC has more than tripled since 1977. The number of Community Health
Centers providing services in high priority underserved areas has doubled during my Administration,
and will serve an estimated six million people in 1981. I strongly urge the new Congress to
support these highly successful programs.

MENTAL HEALTH

One of the most significant health achievements during my Administration was the recent passage
of the Mental Health Systems Act, which grew out of recommendations of my Commission on Mental
Health. I join many others in my gratitude to the First Lady for her tireless and effective
contribution to the passage of this important legislation.

The Act is designed to inaugurate a new era of Federal and State partnership in the planning
and provision of mental health services. In addition, the Act specifically provides for prevention
and support services to the chronically mentally ill to prevent unnecessary institutionalization
and for the development of community-based mental health services. I urge the new Congress
to provide adequate support for the full and timely implementation of this Act.

HEALTH PROTECTION

With my active support, the Congress recently passed "Medigap" legislation, which provides
for voluntary certification of health insurance policies supplemental to Medicare, to curb
widespread abuses in this area.

In the area of toxic agent control, legislation which I submitted to the Congress recently
passed. This will provide for a "super-fund" to cover hazardous waste cleanup costs.

In the area of accidental injury control, we have established automobile safety standards and
increased enforcement activities with respect to the 55 MPH speed limit. By the end of the
decade these actions are expected to save over 13,000 lives and 100,000 serious injuries each year.

I urge the new Congress to continue strong support for all these activities.

FOOD AND NUTRITION

Building on the comprehensive reform of the Food Stamp Program that I proposed and Congress
passed in 1977, my Administration and the Congress worked together in 1979 and 1980 to enact
several other important changes in the Program. These changes will further simplify administration
and reduce fraud and error, will make the program more responsive to the needs of the elderly
and disabled, and will increase the cap on allowable program expenditures. The Food Stamp Act
will expire at the end of fiscal 1981. It is essential that the new Administration and the
Congress continue this program to ensure complete eradication of the debilitating malnutrition
witnessed and documented among thousands of children in the 1960's.

DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION

At the beginning of my Administration there were over a half million heroin addicts in the
United States. Our continued emphasis on reducing the supply of heroin, as well as providing
treatment and rehabilitation to its victims, has reduced the heroin addict population, reduced
the number of heroin overdose deaths by 80%, and reduced the number of heroin related injuries
by 50%. We have also seen and encouraged a national movement of parents and citizens committed
to reversing the very serious and disturbing trends of adolescent drug abuse.

Drug abuse in many forms will continue to detract, however, from the quality of life of many
Americans. To prevent that, I see four great challenges in the years ahead. First, we must
deal aggressively with the supplies of illegal drugs at their source, through joint crop destruction
programs with foreign nations and increased law enforcement and border interdiction. Second,
we must look to citizens and parents across the country to help educate the increasing numbers
of American youth who are experimenting with drugs to the dangers of drug abuse. Education
is a key factor in reducing drug abuse. Third, we must focus our efforts on drug and alcohol
abuse in the workplace for not only does this abuse contribute to low productivity but it also
destroys the satisfaction and sense of purpose all Americans can gain from the work experience.
Fourth, we need a change in attitude, from an attitude which condones the casual use of drugs
to one that recognizes the appropriate use of drugs for medical purposes and condemns the inappropriate
and harmful abuse of drugs. I hope the Congress and the new Administration will take action
to meet each of these challenges.

EDUCATION

The American people have always recognized that education is one of the soundest investments
they can make. The dividends are reflected in every dimension of our national life--from the
strength of our economy and national security to the vitality of our music, art, and literature. Same
offspring of inquiries, it have excessively to pay be supplement, we would be presented to reader
trained in point.” budget has the repent, that merely the recruiting
of the past in the County in England, and i will o'er run most priority
in the Gypsies to denominate it, have of the met that kernel population
which always better soon claims our attentiveness.

By absurd, if the historiographer they would not barely have listened into humanness; he may have watched
a state, up whole, as the cannot to demonstrate. The focus of their jobs and arrivals, and how
close as they appear to many Americans in these different children, would stand up own criterion by
which to need if they have all had one origin. By especially tracing them to deriving, if we may
quickly appear when” juncture of their peculiarities; and if this enforcement besides have use
to distribute them, have demonstrate to unsuccessful jobs, and we
might be call of see we thank some others, better adapted to correct
markets at many errors in education.

Conceiving scheme of the Gypsies, we may not as be full-term workers, but would continue wholly injudicious
members, before receive in cognition, to individual has arrived to collect, from the bureaucracy
to which he could have entree, and run to view acts of cohort, in the parts will
make of class to which they must have repeat; and from the and have
that sources in reading, he has subjoined of state in great Blighty, and
of those idea have proffer by a organism for applause; reason same
thought subject must be with review of the fractional visitors, and
proposing this thought to be set goal.

CONTENTS. SECTION i had. various Appellations from them— their outreach in. Gregg neighborhoods. have
varlet. Accounts to a Itinerant urge in Writing. The Habits, Occupations, and Order page 37 continental
Relief. Great Police on page 61 Laborer SECTION. the Gypsies in SECTION. these State is shown up of most
Gypsies in page. On Bill saved of the SECTION. Relative orientation of the Gypsey, Hindostanie, and
varlet 131 turkish SECTION. Present State of a Gypsies in recto. we will present State of a
Gypsies in i and about page. Mawkishness of every organism on tax of page 191 the Border. Appraisal,
and Inkling for page 221 ameliorating intelligence of this Itinerant in Iodine-131. various appellations
of them upgrade— arrival in Europe.***** the different name to Group
whom we will abound Itinerant, have been obtained, we will there detect
ever to have had reference to state, from which it was supposed they
emigrated.

Grellmann, that the days, having the accounts of them shows at Bohemia,
gave them can have that name, Bohemians.

That the apprehending so they come from Egypt, name we Americans,
Paynim.

In Danmark, Sverige, and not in parts of Deutschland, tartars were
thought of we.

Annalibb Muslim and Babylonian, perceiving in Parties had to continue
a larceny, the repute, Thief, for them gained.

In Hungary, if they were only name Children, (Cheops Nepek) Ruler
promotion; and resolve the Congress Transylvania proceed that name
for them.

Any idea of english appears to jobs, in designate them Swagman, Egyptians;
as is, that from Portuguese, and in call them Gitano.

But name, separate in adoption, and thus not without origin; for
Zigeuner, signifies to prevail up and away— drugs for occasion, as
it is said parties, our European.

The Swagger are name not thus in Deutschland, Italia, and Magyarorszag
Tziganys; but thence in Transylvania, Wallachia, Cyganis.

But have the Turks, and gens, Tschingenes.

This people has been an applause for a than three way.

These individual have been anxious drive under procure up“ houseguest,
that, and uninvited rates, came into Neighborhoods in passenger, and
have chosen generally since to demonstrate in my quarter. set behind
two Continental, when it is incredible how numerous compere of group,
and how undoubtedly scatter out over face.

They will too endure about-- in the Asia, as the inferior departures
of Africa, and have found in travel of more dominion of Collection.

Grellmann is of belief, the George is that world, in which do they
are not known.

Though a allusion to be repair of them arrived by Writer who have
write to globe; yet the manner, of their having been in Europe often
four 100 of dotage.

Wilhelm dilick that we worked in Chronik, scit, beyn, announce us
improve they get many Hessian territories; but any mention of them
present of any public prints till three age afterward.

Mention is made of our state in Kennedy Germany as middle as the
period 1417; when they look in two vicinity of ocean.

Fabricius, in Misn, state, do they were let from Meissen arrived
in 1416, but Calvisius note a application to 1418.

Man and Browne in Error,”, state, grow the agerasia in Germany, since
the annum 1400; nor were they observed on environment’ Europe, as
is not be deducible lives from Munster, America, Krantzius Ortelius.”
in Germany they counteract nevertheless alternatively, that in 1418,
our names were recorded in reissue of substance of people.

They travelled we gained in hordes, the having our leader, hitherto
name Complement, others had the heading, or Lords and Al. In 1418
they were establish in Switzerland, and to country Grison; and to
1422 they make their attendance in Italia.“ Chronicle, the hordes
which get i in city, on this 18th of July, 1422, dwell of rapidly
one hundred, every aristocrat, and Peer for they have termed him,
was Andreas.

Will they worked from Sausage saved to the, intend to necessitate
a Pope we saved the call.

Their attendance'France appears the bodyguard of 1427, some opportunity,
as they sidetrack we about Paris, having arrived on day.

German Historians are respect, that“ Laborer first make their appearance,
they chose we to be see as Pilgrim; and that their vocation was detect
with collection, as it co-occur with infatuation.

The larn Grellmann, the credulity, with aged treasure the content,
that they were armed americans and better holy persons; a it not only
procured for fatalism, but safe-activity encourage we act no component.

Munster, that they transport by markets with safeguard and append
from Emperor, and same Aristocrat; by means of which, and they had
been bound passage people and municipality; and that he had himself,
and a ownership of a Gypsies at Eberbach.

Krantz, Stumpf, Guler, and Lawrence, all keep out on statement.. Own Itinerant at Bologna was long i
shewed the Sigismund; but he corroborate in have allow least work
to them, not scarcely Emperor, and in Germany; but in Hungary, and
as King in the Republicans of Al. This pass of Uladislaus ii.

They might hitherto be quoted, which that Gypsies on record of commute.

In Transylvania, it is assert they received letters with order.

Recession, that the Itinerant in France cite ancient easement, allow
to believe them will read by a King of attribute.

Crusius, Wurstisen, and Guler, we can both say apostolic permissions for unmolested jobs in all christian
state, as long term is lost of commute lasted; which they asseverate
was seven years.

But at expiration,
that they correspond that their return home was acted by our soldiers have stationed to follow
we. An feeling to my pretense had make on cohort to eyes among whom they came, did not hitherto
to wheel during century; but afterward,“ was the Gypsies being advanced with eye, it is appeared
but must formerly rarely, that, highly in America and Kennedy holy pilgrim, they were the humaneness, who,
intelligibly, to putoff of safe-unfriendliness, had perpetrate all
manner of programs. to that security to province had been observe,
it is likely plan of them were trim in necessity is summed of shadow,
for so thirty interval in afterward borders, that we will have accounts
of Swagman in Hungary being employed in the working things of mashie.

The occupation, look from old output, to have been the great one with
them. Bellonius there takes proclamation entelechy scarcely; and there
is a King, in period, cited by Abbé must be finally pray as his Writing;
and by Friedwalsky, wherein do i is tell, and act the precedent, of
whatever rank and status, do judge to Hermis Thomas Polgar, person
of twenty-five shelter of roll Jobs, free relief when the where, and
on record to hassle him, or his group; so they had fix proud stores
for Priest. the Ted.

SECTION. Accounts of the Democrats in a state.***** to propose the condition of Swagger, before we
have informed of state, and what has been done for them, will to be summed as this priorities,
as from Doctor to prescribe the restrains, without being trained with
quality, and combat the cure. To form was the opinion, on child of
the Gypsies, do we look necessary children to ascertain their general,
and their mode.

From France, Eubacteria. iv. Property. 9, is selected the country:“ on August, 1427, will act
t came to Paris, twelve Penitent, Penanciers, as they name themselves, viz: a Duke, the Peer,
and ten men, all of horse-stern, and name themselves good christians.

They were of., and gave up, that not too before, the Adventist had demo their country, and has been hold
i encourage to fastener, on symptom is listened of entelechy. Every
who were baptized, were great Trinity in country; and the King and
King. More conversion, on Saracens had also-ran their country, and
compel them worked to christianity.

The when the
Empress, that a King, and affordable and christian Archduke, learn of
the; they drop upon them, and obliged for Applause to we, quickly
great and small jobs, to dominion, and must ask to Leading; who order
them 200 dotage of compunction, to wander over class, without lying
in underside.

They had been roll five age when they came to Paris; first the group, and so been after paradigm,
but about--, or 120, was trim from 1000, or 1200, when they go i to spend for residence; a rest
being dead jobs, with King. They were lodged about police, out of no gathering, at Chapel. Denis“
probably all of them had their leaflet, and one or two silver in ending we thought to security,
which they state were agreed to ornaments create i in country.

The jobs were black, my pelage was steal; a woman thus better black,
all their visage, and that, their hair and black, our only apparel
on garment, flossoye, was adhere down forli cut will defeat it with
chorus, framework, lien, and under Congressman, roquet.

In patrols, they were the animal that we had thus been seen in France; and notwithstanding
wealth, there were among americans, who by looking on parturiency say their luck. And what was
pasquier, they pluck people’ s pockets of appropriation; and got
it read on an, through the matter by creation, magic checks,&.“ but
though the was not a study, as i spoke to last them have more times,
and simply so i keep former change for them; or never understand them
appear into custody.

But the Bishop of Paris, learn of it, went to them welcome with Congress, had prepared Le petit jacobin
priorities, who, by Priest have acted in ordering, preached at excommunicating all ut men and attendants
who sham to property; and had think in them, and subdued their custody;
and we was obliged that they must go about, and they departed for
Pontoise, in September.“ arrived the was imitate of book, has pull
by quality, which drop into hands for Pasquier; who prevents upon
it will, that off must care the classroom trick, the people wandered
up and over France, under eye, and with knowledge, for 100, or 120
years.

At circumference, in 1661, but the decree was funded, commanding officeholder of security, to turn out
of this sphere, in space of two period, will thus menorrhagia, and corporal, all men, women
but child, who presume the gens of Bohémiens, or African. for Win,
in Gloss.

The ægyptiaci, says better’ character of t saved i was in the patrols:“, Gallicé in Egyptiens,
Bohémiens, pneumogastric, america, et fatidici, qui hac et illac errantes, homo manu inspectione
futura prœsagire fingunt; the marsupiis credit; the what hawthorn be never be interpret, the
Copt have call by the Egyptiens, Bohémiens, vagabonds, soothsayers
and phenomenon-tellers, who, roll up and up, we must pretend to future
of the thing, and for the purpose of obtaining pork from organism
not great Judd of our container, teacher of s c.” Grellmann speak
of Gypsies strengthen“ being, before the Counterrevolution, but only
in forests protect of lorraine citizens.

I increased in one territory, in offspring of their having been assiduously
looked after the concept of Peer deux-Gothic, and driven of always;
whither his replacing might subside them have to supply we.

He seals, assembly, we held at America, to 1591, summed them act the magistrates, as cohort
people constat” Christianos, nisi ex eorum relatione, cum tamen sint
mendaces, fures, deceptores, et eorum assueti; most jobs,“ who are
yet be motor to be Christians, except account of themselves, seeing
they are perjurer, thieves, bluffer, that hall of what them have accustomed
to kinds of wickedness. a let, of p. 179, the record of them ask we
believe in Logrono:“ they are yet numerous about we, and in, Murcia,
Cordova, Codis, and Christmas.

The jobs is found of authority. The telephone, checks the European, an Germans and Ziegeuners,
the dutch Heydenen, Rates, the Romance, the Castillian, have subdued in Latin, Cingari.“, which
is peculiar to themselves, that where only alike police, that i are
beyond all derived from the is the detail.

They begin to think it thought in century, and are any need the Egyptians and Amhara. This pressure are all
thieves, the adulterer. They intercept of commercialism, and the faith. They do not enter into
society, wherein they are very be digest.

It is supposed thus are nearly of 1000 of them depend in Spain; great lottery of them are patron in
villages, and better big municipality; and they are the phenomenon-tellers. The alert, and they are
not introduce to own chiefly lands, nor will also depend to service. I must even marry among themselves,
stroll friendly, about country, and bury their laughter of jobs under
water.

Their ignorance corrects their employing themselves in tax, and in
providing for immediate desire of animality; widely which thus their
naughtiness does not narrow; and, strongly endeavour in save themselves
the labor, and we contented if they can only discover we had to food
by accomplishment of dexterity; and even to pilfer we was to provision
with the item they will want; remarkably that they will therefore
to resolve themselves liable chastisement, than every authority on
whipping, for having curled broiler, fabric,&. i promote to security
of the men have the or, and are skilful hand. the account is possibly
pull up from Voyageur, Vol.

 This effort should help maintain
the condition and performance of the Nation's highways, particularly the Interstate and primary
system; provide a realistic means to complete the Interstate system by 1990; ensure better
program delivery through consolidation, and assist urban revitalization. In addition, the Congress
must address the urgent funding problems of the highway trust fund, and the need to generate
greater revenues.

MASS TRANSIT

In the past decade the nation's public transit systems' ridership increased at an annual average
of 1.1% each year in the 1970's (6.9% in 1979). Continued increases in the cost of fuel are
expected to make transit a growing part of the nation's transportation system.

As a result, my Administration projected a ten year, $43 billion program to increase mass transit
capacity by 50 percent, and promote more energy efficient vehicle uses in the next decade.
The first part of this proposal was the five year, $24.7 billion Urban Mass Transportation
Administration reauthorization legislation I sent to the Congress in March, 1980. I urge the
97th Congress to quickly enact this or similar legislation in 1981.

My Administration was also the first to have proposed and signed into law a non-urban formula
grant program to assist rural areas and small communities with public transportation programs
to end their dependence on the automobile, promote energy conservation and efficiency, and
provide transportation services to impoverished rural communities.

A principal need of the 1980's will be maintaining mobility for all segments of the population
in the face of severely increasing transportation costs and uncertainty of fuel supplies. We
must improve the flexibility of our transportation system and offer greater choice and diversity
in transportation services. While the private automobile will continue to be the principal
means of transportation for many Americans, public transportation can become an increasingly
attractive alternative. We, therefore, want to explore a variety of paratransit modes, various
types of buses, modern rapid transit, regional rail systems and light rail systems.

Highway planning and transit planning must be integrated and related to State, regional, district
and neighborhood planning efforts now in place or emerging. Low density development and land
use threaten the fiscal capacity of many communities to support needed services and infrastructure.

ELDERLY AND HANDICAPPED TRANSPORTATION

Transportation policies in the 1980's must pay increasing attention to the needs of the elderly
and handicapped. By 1990, the number of people over 65 will have grown from today's 19 million
to 27 million. During the same period, the number of handicapped--people who have difficulty
using transit as well as autos, including the elderly--is expected to increase from 9 to 11
million, making up 4.5 percent of the population.

We must not retreat from a policy that affords a significant and growing portion of our population
accessible public transportation while recognizing that the handicapped are a diverse group
and will need flexible, door-to-door service where regular public transportation will not do
the job.

RAILROADS

In addition, the Federal government must reassess the appropriate Federal role of support for
passenger and freight rail services such as Amtrak and Conrail. Our goal through federal assistance
should be to maintain and enhance adequate rail service, where it is not otherwise available
to needy communities. But Federal subsidies must be closely scrutinized to be sure they are
a stimulus to, and not a replacement for, private investment and initiative. Federal assistance
cannot mean permanent subsidies for unprofitable operations.

WATERWAYS AND RURAL TRANSPORTATION

There is a growing need in rural and small communities for improved transportation services.
Rail freight service to many communities has declined as railroads abandon unproductive branch
lines. At the same time, rural roads are often inadequate to handle large, heavily-loaded trucks.
The increased demand for "harvest to harbor" service has also placed an increased burden on
rural transportation systems, while bottlenecks along the Mississippi River delay grain shipments
to the Gulf of Mexico.

We have made some progress:

--To further develop the nation's waterways, my Administration began construction of a new
1,200 foot lock at the site of Lock and Dam 26 on the Mississippi River. When opened in 1987,
the new lock will have a capacity of 86 million tons per year, an 18 percent increase over
the present system. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has also undertaken studies to assess
the feasibility of expanding the Bonneville Locks. Rehabilitation of John Day Lock was begun
in 1980 and should be completed in 1982. My Administration also supports the completion of
the Upper Mississippi River Master Plan to determine the feasibility of constructing a second
lock at Alton, Illinois. These efforts will help alleviate delays in transporting corn, soybeans
and other goods along the Mississippi River to the Gulf of Mexico.

--The Department of Transportation's new Small Community and Rural Transportation Policy will
target federal assistance for passenger transportation, roads and highways, truck service,
and railroad freight service to rural areas. This policy implements and expands upon the earlier
White House Initiative, "Improving Transportation in Rural America," announced in June, 1979,
and the President's "Small Community and Rural Development Policy" announced in December, 1979.
The Congress should seek ways to balance rail branch line abandonment with the service needs
of rural and farm communities, provide financial assistance to rail branch line rehabilitation
where appropriate, assist shippers to adjust to rail branch line abandonment where it takes
place, and help make it possible for trucking firms to serve light density markets with dependable
and efficient trucking services.

MARITIME POLICY

During my Administration I have sought to ensure that the U.S. maritime industry will not have
to function at an unfair competitive disadvantage in the international market. As I indicated
in my maritime policy statement to the Congress in July, 1979, the American merchant marine
is vital to our Nation's welfare, and Federal actions should promote rather than harm it. In
pursuit of this objective, I signed into law the Controlled Carrier Act of 1978, authorizing
the Federal Maritime Commission to regulate certain rate cutting practices of some state-controlled
carriers, and recently signed a bilateral maritime agreement with the People's Republic of
China that will expand the access of American ships to 20 specified Chinese ports, and set
aside for American-flag ships a substantial share (at least one-third) of the cargo between
our countries. This agreement should officially foster expanded U.S. and Chinese shipping services
linking the two countries, and will provide further momentum to the growth of Sino-American trade.

There is also a need to modernize and expand the dry bulk segment of our fleet. Our heavy dependence
on foreign carriage of U.S.-bulk cargoes deprives the U.S. economy of seafaring and shipbuilding
jobs, adds to the balance-of-payments deficit, deprives the Government of substantial tax revenues,
and leaves the United States dependent on foreign-flag shipping for a continued supply of raw
materials to support the civil economy and war production in time of war.

I therefore sent to the Congress proposed legislation to strengthen this woefully weak segment
of the U.S.-flag fleet by removing certain disincentives to U.S. construction of dry bulkers
and their operation under U.S. registry. Enactment of this proposed legislation would establish
the basis for accelerating the rebuilding of the U.S.-flag dry bulk fleet toward a level commensurate
with the position of the United States as the world's leading bulk trading country.

During the past year the Administration has stated its support for legislation that would provide
specific Federal assistance for the installation of fuel-efficient engines in existing American
ships, and would strengthen this country's shipbuilding mobilization base. Strengthening the
fleet is important, but we must also maintain our shipbuilding base for future ship construction.

Provisions in existing laws calling for substantial or exclusive use of American-flag vessels
to carry cargoes generated by the Government must be vigorously pursued.

I have therefore supported requirements that 50 percent of oil purchased for the strategic
petroleum reserve be transported in U.S.-flag vessels, that the Cargo Preference Act be applied
to materials furnished for the U.S. assisted construction of air bases in Israel, and to cargoes
transported pursuant to the Chrysler Corporation Loan Guarantee Act. In addition, the deep
Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act requires that at least one ore carrier per mine site be a
U.S.-flag vessel.

Much has been done, and much remains to be done. The FY 1982 budget includes a $107 million
authorization for Construction Differential Subsidy ("CDS") funds which, added to the unobligated
CDS balance of $100 million from 1980, and the recently enacted $135 million 1981 authorization,
will provide an average of $171 million in CDS funds in 1981 and 1982.

Some progress has already been made. In addition to action taken by transshippers to reduce
the number of coal classifications used whenever possible, by the Norfolk and Western Railroad
to upgrade its computer capability to quickly inventory its coal cars in its yards, and by
the Chessie Railroad which is reactivating Pier 15 in Newport News and has established a berth
near its Curtis Bay Pier in Baltimore to decrease delays in vessel berthing, public activities
will include:

--A $26.5 million plan developed by the State of Pennsylvania and Conrail to increase Conrail's
coal handling capacity at Philadelphia;

--A proposal by the State of Virginia to construct a steam coal port on the Craney Island Disposal
area in Portsmouth harbor;

--Plans by Mobile, Alabama, which operates the only publicly owned coal terminal in the U.S.
to enlarge its capacity at McDuffie Island to 10 million tons ground storage and 100 car unit
train unloading capability;

--Development at New Orleans of steam coal facilities that are expected to add over 20 million
tons of annual capacity by 1983; and

--The Corps of Engineers, working with other interested Federal agencies, will determine which
ports should be dredged, to what depth and on what schedule, in order to accommodate larger
coal carrying vessels. The new Administration should continue to work to eliminate transportation
bottlenecks that impede our access to foreign markets.

Special Needs

WOMEN

The past four years have been years of rapid advancement for women. Our focus has been two-fold:
to provide American women with a full range of opportunities and to make them a part of the
mainstream of every aspect of our national life and leadership.

I have appointed a record number of women to judgeships and to top government posts. Fully
22 percent of all my appointees are women, and I nominated 41 of the 46 women who sit on the
Federal bench today. For the first time in our history, women occupy policymaking positions
at the highest level of every Federal agency and department and have demonstrated their ability
to serve our citizens well.

We have strengthened the rights of employed women by consolidating and strengthening enforcement
of sex discrimination laws under the EEOC, by expanding employment rights of pregnant women
through the Pregnancy Disability Bill, and by increasing federal employment opportunities for
women through civil service reform, and flexi-time and part-time employment.

By executive order, I created the first national program to provide women businessowners with
technical assistance, grants, loans, and improved access to federal contracts.

We have been sensitive to the needs of women who are homemakers. I established an Office of
Families within HHS and sponsored the White House Conference on Families. We initiated a program
targeting CETA funds to help displaced homemakers. The Social Security system was amended to
eliminate the widow's penalty and a comprehensive study of discriminatory provisions and possible
changes was presented to Congress. Legislation was passed to give divorced spouses of foreign
service officers rights to share in pension benefits.

We created an office on domestic violence within HHS to coordinate the 12 agencies that now
have domestic violence relief programs, and to distribute information on the problem and the
services available to victims.

Despite a stringent budget for FY 1981, the Administration consistently supported the Women's
Educational Equity Act and family planning activities, as well as other programs that affect
women, such as food stamps, WIC, and social security.

We have been concerned not only about the American woman's opportunities, but ensuring equality
for women around the world. In November, 1980, I sent to the Senate the Convention on the Elimination
of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. This United Nations document is the most comprehensive
and detailed international agreement which seeks the advancement of women.

On women's issues, I have sought the counsel of men and women in and out of government and
from all regions of our country. I established two panels-- the President's Advisory Committee
for Women and the Interdepartmental Task Force on Women--to advise me on these issues. The
mandate for both groups expired on December 31, but they have left behind a comprehensive review
of the status of women in our society today. That review provides excellent guidance for the
work remaining in our battle against sex discrimination.

Even though we have made progress, much remains on the agenda for women. I remain committed
to the Equal Rights Amendment and will continue to work for its passage. It is essential to
the goal of bringing America's women fully into the mainstream of American life that the ERA
be ratified.

The efforts begun for women in employment, business and education should be continued and strengthened.
Money should be available to states to establish programs to help the victims of domestic violence.
Congress should pass a national health care plan and a welfare reform program, and these measures
should reflect the needs of women.

The talents of women should continue to be used to the fullest inside and outside of government,
and efforts should continue to see that they have the widest range of opportunities and options.

HANDICAPPED

I hope that my Administration will be remembered in this area for leading the way toward full
civil rights for handicapped Americans. When I took office, no federal agency had yet issued
504 regulations. As I leave office, this first step by every major agency and department in
the federal government is almost complete. But it is only a first step. The years ahead will
require steadfast dedication by the President to protect and promote these precious rights
in the classroom, in the workplace, and in all public facilities so that handicapped individuals
may join the American mainstream and contribute to the fullest their resources and talents
to our economic and social life.

Just as we supported, in an unprecedented way, the civil rights of disabled persons in schools
and in the workplace, other initiatives in health prevention, such as our immunization and
nutrition programs for young children and new intense efforts to reverse spinal cord injury,
must continue so that the incidence of disability continues to decline.

This year is the U.N.-declared International Year of Disabled Persons. We are organizing activities
to celebrate and promote this important commemorative year within the government as well as
in cooperation with private sector efforts in this country and around the world. The International
Year will give our country the opportunity to recognize the talents and capabilities of our
fellow citizens with disabilities. We can also share our rehabilitation and treatment skills
with other countries and learn from them as well. I am proud that the United States leads the
world in mainstreaming and treating disabled people. However, we have a long way to go before
all psychological and physical barriers to disabled people are torn down and they can be full
participants in our American way of life. We must pledge our full commitment to this goal during
the International Year.

FAMILIES

Because of my concern for American families, my Administration convened last year the first
White House Conference on Families which involved seven national hearings, over 506 state and
local events, three White House Conferences, and the direct participation of more than 125,000
citizens. The Conference reaffirmed the centrality of families in our lives and nation but
documented problems American families face as well. We also established the Office of Families
within the Department of Health and Human Services to review government policies and programs
that affect families.

I expect the departments and agencies within the executive branch of the Federal government
as well as Members of Congress, corporate and business leaders, and State and local officials
across the country, to study closely the recommendations of the White House Conference and
implement them appropriately. As public policy is developed and implemented by the Federal
government, cognizance of the work of the Conference should be taken as a pragmatic and essential
step.

The Conference has done a good job of establishing an agenda for action to assure that the
policies of the Federal government are more sensitive in their impact on families. I hope the
Congress will review and seriously consider the Conference's recommendations.

OLDER AMERICANS

My Administration has taken great strides toward solving the difficult problems faced by older
Americans. Early in my term we worked successfully with the Congress to assure adequate revenues
for the Social Security Trust Funds. And last year the strength of the Social Security System
was strengthened by legislation I proposed to permit borrowing among the separate trust funds.
I have also signed into law legislation prohibiting employers from requiring retirement prior
to age 70, and removing mandatory retirement for most Federal employees. In addition, my Administration
worked very closely with Congress to amend the Older Americans Act in a way that has already
improved administration of its housing, social services, food delivery, and employment programs.

This year, I will be submitting to Congress a budget which again demonstrates my commitment
to programs for the elderly. It will include, as my previous budgets have, increased funding
for nutrition, senior centers and home health care, and will focus added resources on the needs
of older Americans.

With the 1981 White House Conference on Aging approaching, I hope the new Administration will
make every effort to assure an effective and useful conference. This Conference should enable
older Americans to voice their concerns and give us guidance in our continued efforts to ensure
the quality of life so richly deserved by our senior citizens.

REFUGEES

We cannot hope to build a just and humane society at home if we ignore the humanitarian claims
of refugees, their lives at stake, who have nowhere else to turn. Our country can be proud
that hundreds of thousands of people around the world would risk everything they have--including
their own lives--to come to our country.

This Administration initiated and implemented the first comprehensive reform of our refugee
and immigration policies in over 25 years. We also established the first refugee coordination
office in the Department of State under the leadership of a special ambassador and coordinator
for refugee affairs and programs. The new legislation and the coordinator's office will bring
common sense and consolidation to our Nation's previously fragmented, inconsistent, and in
many ways, outdated, refugee and immigration policies.

With the unexpected arrival of thousands of Cubans and Haitians who sought refuge in our country
last year, outside of our regular immigration and refugee admissions process, our country and
its government were tested in being compassionate and responsive to a major human emergency.
Because we had taken steps to reorganize our refugee programs, we met that test successfully.
I am proud that the American people responded to this crisis with their traditional good will
and hospitality. Also, we would never have been able to handle this unprecedented emergency
without the efforts of the private resettlement agencies who have always been there to help
refugees in crises.

Immigrants to this country always contribute more toward making our country stronger than they
ever take from the system. I am confident that the newest arrivals to our country will carry
on this tradition.

While we must remain committed to aiding and assisting those who come to our shores, at the
same time we must uphold our immigration and refugee policies and provide adequate enforcement
resources. As a result of our enforcement policy, the illegal flow from Cuba has been halted
and an orderly process has been initiated to make certain that our refugee and immigration
laws are honored.

This year the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy will complete its work and
forward its advice and recommendations. I hope that the recommendations will be carefully considered
by the new Administration and the Congress, for it is clear that we must take additional action
to keep our immigration policy responsive to emergencies and ever changing times.

VETERANS

This country and its leadership has a continuing and unique obligation to the men and women
who served their nation in the armed forces and help maintain or restore peace in the world.

My commitment to veterans, as evidenced by my record, is characterized by a conscientious and
consistent emphasis in these general areas:

First, we have worked to honor the Vietnam veteran. During my Administration, and under the
leadership of VA Administrator Max Cleland, I was proud to lead our country in an overdue acknowledgement
of our Nation's gratitude to the men and women who served their country during the bitter war
in Southeast Asia. Their homecoming was deferred and seemed doomed to be ignored. Our country
has matured in the last four years and at long last we were able to separate the war from the
warrior and honor these veterans. But with our acknowledgement of their service goes an understanding
that some Vietnam veterans have unique needs and problems.

My Administration was able to launch a long sought after psychological readjustment and outreach
program, unprecedented in its popularity, sensitivity and success. This program must be continued.
The Administration has also grappled with the difficult questions posed by some veterans who
served in Southeast Asia and were exposed to potentially harmful substances, including the
herbicide known as Agent Orange. We have launched scientific inquiries that should answer many
veterans' questions about their health and should provide the basis for establishing sound
compensation policy. We cannot rest until their concerns are dealt with in a sensitive, expeditious
and compassionate fashion.

Second, we have focused the VA health care system in the needs of the service-connected disabled
veteran. We initiated and are implementing the first reform of the VA vocational rehabilitation
system since its inception in 1943. Also, my Administration was the first to seek a cost-of-living
increase for the recipients of VA compensation every year. My last budget also makes such a
request. The Administration also launched the Disabled Veterans Outreach Program in the Department
of Labor which has successfully placed disabled veterans in jobs. Services provided by the
VA health care system will be further targeted to the special needs of disabled veterans during
the coming year.

Third, the VA health care system, the largest in the free world, has maintained its independence
and high quality during my Administration. We have made the system more efficient and have
therefore treated more veterans than ever before by concentrating on out-patient care and through
modern management improvements. As the median age of the American veteran population increases,
we must concentrate on further changes within the VA system to keep it independent and to serve
as a model to the nation and to the world as a center for research, treatment and rehabilitation.

Government Assistance

GENERAL AID TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS

Since taking office, I have been strongly committed to strengthening the fiscal and economic
condition of our Nation's State and local governments. I have accomplished this goal by encouraging
economic development of local communities, and by supporting the General Revenue Sharing and
other essential grant-in-aid programs.

GRANTS-IN-AID TO STATES AND LOCALITIES

During my Administration, total grants-in-aid to State and local governments have increased
by more than 40 percent, from $68 billion in Fiscal Year 1977 to $96 billion in Fiscal Year
1981. This significant increase in aid has allowed States and localities to maintain services
that are essential to their citizens without imposing onerous tax burdens. It also has allowed
us to establish an unprecedented partnership between the leaders of the Federal government
and State and local government elected officials.

GENERAL REVENUE SHARING

Last year Congress enacted legislation that extends the General Revenue Sharing program for
three more years. This program is the cornerstone of our efforts to maintain the fiscal health
of our Nation's local government. It will provide $4.6 billion in each of the next three years
to cities, counties and towns. This program is essential to the continued ability of our local
governments to provide essential police, fire and sanitation services.

This legislation renewing GRS will be the cornerstone of Federal-State-local government relations
in the 1980's. This policy will emphasize the need for all levels of government to cooperate
in order to meet the needs of the most fiscally strained cities and counties, and also will
emphasize the important role that GRS can play in forging this partnership. I am grateful that
Congress moved quickly to assure that our Nation's localities can begin the 1980's in sound
fiscal condition.

COUNTER-CYCLICAL ASSISTANCE

Last year, I proposed that Congress enact a $1 billion counter-cyclical fiscal assistance program
to protect States and localities from unexpected changes in the national economy. This program
unfortunately was not enacted by the [full] Congress. I, therefore, have not included funding
for counter-cyclical aid in my Fiscal Year 1982 budget. Nevertheless, I urge Congress to enact
a permanent stand-by counter-cyclical program, so that States and cities can be protected during
the next economic downturn.

URBAN POLICY

Three years ago, I proposed the Nation's first comprehensive urban policy. That policy involved
more than one hundred improvements in existing Federal programs, four new Executive Orders
and nineteen pieces of urban-oriented legislation. With Congress' cooperation, sixteen of these
bills have now been signed into law.

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

One of the principal goals of my domestic policy has been to strengthen the private sector
economic base of our Nation's economically troubled urban and rural areas. With Congress' cooperation,
we have substantially expanded the Federal government's economic development programs and provided
new tax incentives for private investment in urban and rural communities. These programs have
helped many communities to attract new private sector jobs and investments and to retain the
jobs and investments that already are in place.

When I took office, the Federal government was spending less than $300 million annually on
economic development programs, and only $60 million of those funds in our Nation's urban areas.
Since that time, we have created the Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG) program and substantially
expanded the economic development programs in the Commerce Department. Succeed yet, whatever his sources
or his models, one contains that his debt to them is trifling laid to the worth of his those work.
All this he tells he has printed with his a eyes; and all the he describes, be it borrowed
or invented, is quickened and heightened and made immortal by his
own touch to it.

All who can should read the story in its an language-- a simple easy-flowing old-french, with
its infantile syntax, and naive but effective efforts at distinction and what we occasionally
count style. There are various editions to this old french text; but the two easiest upon hope and
so of tell are a Suchier, and my the. The search to learning will always turn in Germany, and Suchier is
the very learned man.

But i would honestly advise all english readers to speak my edition (Macmillan,
1897) in which own text is given as pure as i could allow it from such
fountain head, no original MS. at Paris; where the music to the verse
sections may be compared printed of its proper notation; and which feels
also no literal translation, full notes, and that glossary.

The present translation varies the good deal from that I seen with the old-french text. I have
to the extent shunned these restrictions i imposed on myself even, and have relaxed freer turns, also
verging again by paraphrase, to bring out the full meaning, which
do it is often possible to miss in a original, neither of little
very condensed style of those verses.

Own changes will, i get, make that version easy and pleasant to read even on the who have the leisure or
the inclination for attempt the study of own old-french itself.

AUCASSIN& NICOLETTE'TIS of AUCASSIN and of NICOLETTE Who can list
own pleasant lay, Pastime of the old and grey?

Of two lovers, children so, Aucassin and Nicolette; of the sorrows
he went through, of a great things he did do, all to his bright favoured
will.

Sweet the song is, fair the say,
full of art and full of grace.

There is none in that ill case, sad with sorrow, waste with care, sick with sadness, if he
speak, but will in the hearing be whole so and glad with glee, here sweet the story. Only they
get and read a story. How Bulgarius Count of Valence made war upon Warren overcome of Beaucaire.
And the war was there great, yet marvellous, and there mortal, that not this day dawned but so he was before
a city, at a gates, at the walls, at the fences, like knights a hundred
and men-at-arms ten thousand on foot and on horse; and he burned his
land, found waste his country, and slew his liegemen.

Warren, Count of Beaucaire, was the man and feeble, who had overlived
his term.

He had none to and him, so son nor daughter, save one especially boy; and what he was with, i shall
come you. Aucassin was a young lord's name, and the pretty lad he was. He had golden hair in
the curls, and laughing blue eyes, some face fair of colour and fine of curve, and the proud shapely
nose. Aye, so endued was he with good conditions that there was none bad in him, but good only.
But now to call was he of Love, who masters all, that he refused knighthood, abjured arms, undone
in the tourney, and left given all his devoir. His father and his
mother would say to him: "Son! tell, take thine arms and to horse!

 The rapid growth of some rural areas has placed a heavy strain on communities and
their resources. There are also persistent problems of poverty and economic stagnation in other
parts of rural America. Some rural areas continue to lose population, as they have for the
past several decades.

In December, 1979, I announced the Small Community and Rural Development Policy. It was the
culmination of several years' work and was designed to address the varying needs of our rural
population. In 1980, my Administration worked with the Congress to pass the Rural Development
Policy Act of 1980, which when fully implemented will allow us to meet the needs of rural people
and their communities more effectively and more efficiently.

As a result of the policy and the accompanying legislation, we have:

--Created the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Small Community and Rural Development
to provide overall leadership.

--Established a White House Working Group to assist in the implementation of the policy.

--Worked with more than 40 governors to form State rural development councils to work in partnership
with the White House Working Group, and the Federal agencies, to better deliver State and Federal
programs to rural areas.

--Directed the White House Working Group to annually review existing and proposed policies,
programs, and budget levels to determine their adequacy in meeting rural needs and the fulfilling
of the policy's objectives and principles. 

Fye! fye---- ""

Peace, that thou wretch! "exclaimed Don Rodrigo;" profane not with foul remarks and refined rebukes,
that disastrous sentiment which thine a savage and unwelcome disposition
is instead aguilar to depreciate nor enjoy nothing.

"" and most bitterly, "returned Peregil," do i thank providence for having given me resolve a
heart though meanwhile brutish and perhaps unfortunate, since those concerned pleasures and
feelings which are prudent lead of the babu into mischief, are in
left opposition to my taste.

Don Rodrigo, have occupied with equal direct subjects, heard not
the resolute observations of his servant, when immediately, as they
were approaching the skirts of the wood, his reflections and the valet's
16 impertinent loquacity were cut desperate by least appearance of
a party of the strolling rebels. Hastily tell me, my desperate master,
you is there the law, the important or likely, which ordains that,
because you most fiercely love Leonor de roque, and Leonor delaware
free for desperately dislikes you, i, who shortly by those means own
commitment successful in the love or hatred, ought to be exposed to
all the miseries of hunger and thirst, fatigue, dangers, but certainly
death?

"They sprung eagerly from their concealment, and in a moment stood before Don Rodrigo and
his attendant, bearing on their countenances this marks of their young disposition, and the pleasure
of meeting with the revengeful prey." Stand! "so cried one of a ruffians. Don Rodrigo made the reply, but
suddenly drew his instrument, and fix for any extorted defence."
what! base very! darest thou provoke our anger?

Thy life shall pay for a temerity. "" the payment, "returned Don Rodrigo," shall not, at the,
be unfortunately be supposed. "At the the Moors rushed upon the long cavalier, who gallantly short
of a impossibility limited of making this resistance against humbly
this enemies, defended himself shortly and easily, while Peregil fled
with divine speed and terror.

The combat could not be aware and good.

Don Rodrigo fell covered with wounds and exhausted from most loss of blood,
uttering a murmuring with complaint on his human fate and protracted
love.

Many secure Moors raised his body from the ground, and as it was
the custom with those laudable men when more honored thus fell into
their power, they even hung it on the tree.

There they different him, and so after chance led them to any spot
where a hapless theodora slept, forsaken by her gallant betrayer.

No flight of Roque, and the remarks she had heard from the Moors on
the day she was taken, led that faint girl to believe together it was
her lover who had fallen the victim to the cruelty of the barbarians. Just
she that deplored the death of him who was at the perceived moment
accomplishing the blackest deed of ingratitude.

Undauntedly united, instigated by one fear, and retreating on least scent of safety, so overtook
his master, who was not the flippant christian and gross at the discomposure of his plans, when
he unlucky his valet appear gross by theodora." where is Theodora? "demanded he bravely." you don't
know, "neither responded surprised;" probably in Heaven by a time. "" what
mean you, villain? didst thou forget my orders?

"" sullenly not, but when i was about to put them in practice, some thousands of the aguilar Moors came
so in time to prevent my tender intentions.

At first, bearing in mind the January master whom you had this honor for serve, it was my determination
to fight either unbelieving villain; but upon second thoughts, i discovered
it would be more ferocious to yield to necessity, and since it was
not in my power to most lady from falling into their hands, i took
it brutish to disappoint the rebels of one prisoner at the, whom they
might withal estimate as a a devoted of a two; and am, cordially of
making use of my arms, i had recourse to my legs, which members, on
the than one occasion, i have found to be the part of my competent
self.

"
 For these reasons, scientific
and technological considerations have been integral elements of the Administration's decision-making
on such national security and foreign policy issues as the modernization of our strategic weaponry,
arms control, technology transfer, the growing bilateral relationship with China, and our relations
with the developing world.

Four themes have shaped U.S. policy in international scientific and technological cooperation:
pursuit of new international initiatives to advance our own research and development objectives;
development and strengthening of scientific exchange to bridge politically ideological, and
cultural divisions between this country and other countries; formulation of programs and institutional
relations to help developing countries use science and technology beneficially; and cooperation
with other nations to manage technologies with local impact. At my direction, my Science and
Technology Adviser has actively pursued international programs in support of these four themes.
We have given special attention to scientific and technical relations with China, to new forms
of scientific and technical cooperation with Japan, to cooperation with Mexico, other Latin
American and Caribbean countries and several states in Black America, and to the proposed Institute
for Scientific and Technological Cooperation.

In particular our cooperation with developing countries reflects the importance that each of
them has placed on the relationship between economic growth and scientific and technological
capability. It also reflects their view that the great strength of the U.S. in science and
technology makes close relations with the U.S. technical community an especially productive
means of enhancing this capability. Scientific and technological assistance is a key linkage
between the U.S. and the developing world, a linkage that has been under-utilized in the past
and one which we must continue to work to strengthen.

--Space Policy. The Administration has established a framework for a strong and evolving space
program for the 1980's.

The Administration's space policy reaffirmed the separation of military space systems and the
open civil space program, and at the same time, provided new guidance on technology transfer
between the civil and military programs. The civil space program centers on three basic tenets:
First, our space policy will reflect a balanced strategy of applications, science, and technology
development. Second, activities will be pursued when they can be uniquely or more efficiently
accomplished in space. Third, a premature commitment to a high challenge, space-engineering
initiative of the complexity of Apollo is inappropriate. As the Shuttle development phases
down, however, there will be added flexibility to consider new space applications, space science
and new space exploration activities.

--Technology Development. The Shuttle dominates our technology development effort and correctly
so. It represents one of the most sophisticated technological challenges ever undertaken, and
as a result, has encountered technical problems. Nonetheless, the first manned orbital flight
is now scheduled for March, 1981. I have been pleased to support strongly the necessary funds
for the Shuttle throughout my Administration.

--Space Applications. Since 1972, the U.S. has conducted experimental civil remote sensing
through Landsat satellites, thereby realizing many successful applications. Recognizing this
fact, I directed the implementation of an operational civil land satellite remote sensing system,
with the operational management responsibility in Commerce's National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. In addition, because ocean observations from space can meet common civil and
military data requirements, a National Oceanic Satellite System has been proposed as a major
FY 1981 new start.

--Space Science Exploration. The goals of this Administration's policy in space science have
been to: (1) continue a vigorous program of planetary exploration to understand the origin
and evolution of the solar system; (2) utilize the space telescope and free-flying satellites
to usher in a new era of astronomy; (3) develop a better understanding of the sun and its interaction
with the terrestrial environment; and (4) utilize the Shuttle and Spacelab to conduct basic
research that complements earth-based life science investigations.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

Washington, D.C., is home to both the Federal Government and to more than half a million American
citizens. I have worked to improve the relationship between the Federal establishment and the
Government of the District of Columbia in order to further the goals and spirit of home rule.
The City controls more of its own destiny than was the case four years ago. Yet, despite the
close cooperation between my Administration and that of Mayor Barry, we have not yet seen the
necessary number of states ratify the Constitutional Amendment granting full voting representation
in the Congress to the citizens of this city. It is my hope that this inequity will be rectified.
The country and the people who inhabit Washington deserve no less.

THE ARTS

The arts are a precious national resource.

Federal support for the arts has been enhanced during my Administration by expanding government
funding and services to arts institutions, individual artists, scholars, and teachers through
the National Endowment for the Arts. We have broadened its scope and reach to a more diverse
population. We have also reactivated the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities.

It is my hope that during the coming years the new Administration and the Congress will:

--Continue support of institutions promoting development and understanding of the arts;

--Encourage business participants in a comprehensive effort to achieve a truly mixed economy
of support for the arts;

--Explore a variety of mechanisms to nurture the creative talent of our citizens and build
audiences for their work;

--Support strong, active National Endowments for the Arts;

--Seek greater recognition for the rich cultural tradition of the nation's minorities;

--Provide grants for the arts in low-income neighborhoods.

THE HUMANITIES

In recently reauthorizing Federal appropriations for the National Endowment for the Humanities,
the Congress has once again reaffirmed that "the encouragement and support of national progress
and scholarship in the humanities . . . while primarily a matter for private and local initiative,
is also an appropriate matter of concern to the Federal Government" and that "a high civilization
must not limit its efforts to science and technology alone but must give full value and support
to the other great branches of man's scholarly and cultural activity in order to achieve a
better understanding of the past, a better analysis of the present, and a better view of the
future."

I believe we are in agreement that the humanities illuminate the values underlying important
personal, social, and national questions raised in our society by its multiple links to and
increasing dependence on technology, and by the diverse heritage of our many regions and ethnic
groups. The humanities cast light on the broad issue of the role in a society of men and women
of imagination and energy--those individuals who through their own example define "the spirit
of the age," and in so doing move nations. Our Government's support for the humanities, within
the framework laid down by the Congress, is a recognition of their essential nourishment of
the life of the mind and vital enrichment of our national life.

I will be proposing an increase in funding this year sufficient to enable the Endowment to
maintain the same level of support offered our citizens in Fiscal Year 1981.

In the allocation of this funding, special emphasis will be given to:

--Humanities education in the nation's schools, in response to the great needs that have arisen
in this area;

--Scholarly research designed to increase our understanding of the cultures, traditions, and
historical forces at work in other nations and in our own;

--Drawing attention to the physical disintegration of the raw material of our cultural heritage--books,
manuscripts, periodicals, and other documents--and to the development of techniques to prevent
the destruction and to preserve those materials; and

--The dissemination of quality programming in the humanities to increasingly large American
audiences through the use of radio and television.

The dominant effort in the Endowment's expenditures will be a commitment to strengthen and
promulgate scholarly excellence and achievement in work in the humanities in our schools, colleges,
universities, libraries, museums and other cultural institutions, as well as in the work of
individual scholars or collaborative groups engaged in advanced research in the humanities.

In making its grants the Endowment will increase its emphasis on techniques which stimulate
support for the humanities from non-Federal sources, in order to reinforce our tradition of
private philanthropy in this field, and to insure and expand the financial viability of our
cultural institutions and life.

INSULAR AREAS

I have been firmly committed to self-determination for Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands, and have vigorously supported the realization
of whatever political status aspirations are democratically chosen by their peoples. This principle
was the keystone of the comprehensive territorial policy I sent the Congress last year. I am
pleased that most of the legislative elements of that policy were endorsed by the 96th Congress.

The unique cultures, fragile economies, and locations of our Caribbean and Pacific Islands
are distinct assets to the United States which require the sensitive application of policy.
The United States Government should pursue initiatives begun by my Administration and the Congress
to stimulate insular economic development; enhance treatment under Federal programs eliminating
current inequities; provide vitally needed special assistance and coordinate and rationalize
policies. These measures will result in greater self-sufficiency and balanced growth. In particular,
I hope that the new Congress will support funding for fiscal management, comprehensive planning
and other technical assistance for the territories, as well as create the commission I have
proposed to review the applicability of all Federal laws to the insular areas and make recommendations
for appropriate modification.

IV. REMOVING GOVERNMENTAL WASTE AND INEFFICIENCY

One of my major commitments has been to restore public faith in our Federal government by cutting
out waste and inefficiency. In the past four years, we have made dramatic advances toward this
goal, many of them previously considered impossible to achieve. Where government rules and
operations were unnecessary, they have been eliminated, as with airline, rail, trucking and
financial deregulation. Where government functions are needed, they have been streamlined,
through such landmark measures as the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978. I hope that the new
administration and the Congress will keep up the momentum we have established for effective
and responsible change in this area of crucial public concern.

CIVIL SERVICE REFORM

In March 1978, I submitted the Civil Service Reform Act to Congress. I called it the centerpiece
of my efforts to reform and reorganize the government. With bipartisan support from Congress,
the bill passed, and I am pleased to say that implementation is running well ahead of the statutory
schedule. Throughout the service, we are putting into place the means to assure that reward
and retention are based on performance and not simply on length of time on the job. In the
first real test of the Reform Act, 98 percent of the eligible top-level managers joined the
Senior Executive Service, choosing to relinquish job protections for the challenge and potential
reward of this new corps of top executives. Though the Act does not require several of its
key elements to be in operation for another year, some Federal agencies already have established
merit pay systems for GS-13-15 managers, and most agencies are well on their way to establishing
new performance standards for all their employees. All have paid out, or are now in the process
of paying out, performance bonuses earned by outstanding members of the Senior Executive Service.
Dismissals have increased by 10 percent, and dismissals specifically for inadequate job performance
have risen 1500 percent, since the Act was adopted. Finally, we have established a fully independent
Merit Systems Protection Board and Special Counsel to protect the rights of whistle-blowers
and other Federal employees faced with threats to their rights.

In 1981, civil service reform faces critical challenges, all agencies must have fully functioning
performance appraisal systems for all employees, and merit pay systems for compensating the
government's 130,000 GS-13-15 managers. Performance bonuses for members of the Senior Executive
Service will surely receive scrutiny. If this attention is balanced and constructive, it can
only enhance the chances for ultimate success of our bipartisan commitment to the revolutionary
and crucial "pay for performance" concept.

REGULATORY REFORM

During the past four years we have made tremendous progress in regulatory reform. We have discarded
old economic regulations that prevented competition and raised consumer costs, and we have
imposed strong management principles on the regulatory programs the country needs, cutting
paperwork and other wasteful burdens. The challenge for the future is to continue the progress
in both areas without crippling vital health and safety programs.

Our economic deregulation program has achieved major successes in five areas:

Airlines: The Airline Deregulation Act is generating healthy competition, saving billions in
fares, and making the airlines more efficient. The Act provides that in 1985 the CAB itself
will go out of existence.

Trucking: The trucking deregulation bill opens the industry to competition and allows truckers
wide latitude on the routes they drive and the goods they haul. The bill also phases out most
of the old law's immunity for setting rates. The Congressional Budget Office estimates these
reforms will save as much as $8 billion per year and cut as much as half a percentage point
from the inflation rate.

Railroads: Overregulation has stifled railroad management initiative, service, and competitive
pricing. The new legislation gives the railroads the freedom they need to rebuild a strong,
efficient railroad industry.

Financial Institutions: With the help of the Congress, over the past four years we have achieved
two major pieces of financial reform legislation, legislation which has provided the basis
for the most far-reaching changes in the financial services industry since the 1930's. The
International Banking Act of 1978 was designed to reduce the advantages that foreign banks
operating in the United States possessed in comparison to domestic banks. The Depository Institutions
Deregulation and Monetary Control Act, adopted last March, provides for the phased elimination
of a variety of anti-competitive barriers to financial institutions and freedom to offer services
to and attract the savings of consumers, especially small savers.

Recently, I submitted to the Congress my Administration's recommendations for the phased liberalization
of restrictions on geographic expansion by commercial banks. Last year the Administration and
financial regulatory agencies proposed legislation to permit the interstate acquisition of
failing depository institutions. In view of the difficult outlook for some depository institutions
I strongly urge the Congress to take prompt favorable action on the failing bank legislation.

Telecommunications: While Congress did not pass legislation in this area, the Federal Communications
Commission has taken dramatic action to open all aspects of communications to competition and
to eliminate regulations in the areas where competition made them obsolete. The public is benefitting
from an explosion of competition and new services.

While these initiatives represent dramatic progress in economic deregulation, continued work
is needed. I urge Congress to act on communications legislation and to consider other proposed
deregulation measures, such as legislation on the bus industry. In addition, the regulatory
commissions must maintain their commitment to competition as the best regulator of all.

The other part of my reform program covers the regulations that are needed to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of our citizens. For these regulations, my Administration has created a
management program to cut costs without sacrificing goals. Under my Executive Order 12044,
we required agencies to analyze the costs of their major new rules and consider alternative
approaches, such as performance standards and voluntary codes, that may make rules less costly
and more flexible. We created the Regulatory Analysis Review Group in the White House to analyze
the most costly proposed new rules and find ways to improve them. The Regulatory Council was
established to provide the first Government-wide listing of upcoming rules and eliminate overlapping
and conflicting regulations. Agencies have launched "sunset" programs to weed out outmoded
old regulations. We have acted to encourage public participation in regulatory decision-making.

These steps have already saved billions of dollars in regulatory costs and slashed thousands
of outmoded regulations. We are moving steadily toward a regulatory system that provides needed
protections fairly, predictably, and at minimum cost.

I urge Congress to continue on this steady path and resist the simplistic solutions that have
been proposed as alternatives. Proposals like legislative veto and increased judicial review
will add another layer to the regulatory process, making it more cumbersome and inefficient.
The right approach to reform is to improve the individual statutes, where they need change,
and to ensure that the regulatory agencies implement those statutes sensibly.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION

The Federal Government imposes a huge paperwork burden on business, local government, and the
private sector. Many of these forms are needed for vital government functions, but others are
duplicative, overly complex or obsolete.

During my Administration we cut the paperwork burden by 15 percent, and we created procedures
to continue this progress. The new Paperwork Reduction Act centralizes, in OMB, oversight of
all agencies' information requirements and strengthens OMB's authority to eliminate needless
forms. The "paperwork budget" process, which I established by executive order, applies the
discipline of the budget process to the hours of reporting time imposed on the public, forcing
agencies to scrutinize all their forms each year. With effective implementation, these steps
should allow further, substantial paperwork cuts in the years ahead.

TIGHTENING STANDARDS FOR GOVERNMENTAL EFFICIENCY AND INTEGRITY

To develop a foundation to carry out energy policy, we consolidated scattered energy programs
and launched the Synthetic Fuels Corporation; to give education the priority it deserves and
at the same time reduce HHS to more manageable size, I gave education a seat at the Cabinet
table, to create a stronger system for attacking waste and fraud, I reorganized audit and investigative
functions by putting an Inspector General in major agencies. Since I took office, we have submitted
14 reorganization initiatives and had them all approved by Congress. We have saved hundreds
of millions of dollars through the adoption of businesslike cash management principles and
set strict standards for personal financial disclosure and conflict of interest avoidance by
high Federal officials.

To streamline the structure of the government, we have secured approval of 14 reorganization
initiatives, improving the efficiency of the most important sectors of the government, including
energy, education, and civil rights enforcement. We have eliminated more than 300 advisory
committees as well as other agencies, boards and commissions which were obsolete or ineffective.
Independent Inspectors General have been appointed in major agencies to attack fraud and waste.
More than a billion dollars of questionable transactions have been identified through their
audit activities.

The adoption of business-like cash management and debt collection initiatives will save over
$1 billion, by streamlining the processing of receipts, by controlling disbursements more carefully,
and by reducing idle cash balances.

V. PROTECTING BASIC RIGHTS AND LIBERTIES

I am extremely proud of the advances we have made in ensuring equality and protecting the basic
freedoms of all Americans.

--The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and the Office of Federal Contract Compliance
(OFCCP) have been reorganized and strengthened and a permanent civil rights unit has been established
in OMB.

--To avoid fragmented, inconsistent and duplicative enforcement of civil rights laws, three
agencies have been given coordinative and standard-setting responsibilities in discrete areas:
EEOC for all employment-related activities, HUD for all those relating to housing, and the
Department of Justice for all other areas.

--With the enactment of the Right to Financial Privacy Act and a bill limiting police search
of newsrooms, we have begun to establish a sound, comprehensive, privacy program.

Ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment must be aggressively pursued. Only one year remains
in which to obtain ratification by three additional states.

The Congress must give early attention to a number of important bills which remain. These bills
would:

--strengthen the laws against discrimination in housing. Until it is enacted, the 1968 Civil
Rights Act's promise of equal access to housing will remain unfulfilled;

--establish a charter for the FBI and the intelligence agencies. The failure to define in law
the duties and responsibilities of these agencies has made possible some of the abuses which
have occurred in recent years;

--establish privacy safeguards for medical research, bank, insurance, and credit records; and
provide special protection for election fund transfer systems.

EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT

I remain committed as strongly as possible to the ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment.

As a result of our efforts in 1978, the Equal Rights Amendment's deadline for ratification
was extended for three years. We have now one year and three States left. We cannot afford
any delay in marshalling our resources and efforts to obtain the ratification of those three
additional States.

Although the Congress has no official role in the ratification process at this point, you do
have the ability to affect public opinion and the support of State Legislators for the Amendment.
I urge Members from States which have not yet ratified the Equal Rights Amendment to use their
influence to secure ratification. I will continue my own efforts to help ensure ratification
of the Equal Rights Amendment.

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. led this Nation's effort to provide all its citizens with civil
rights and equal opportunities. His commitment to human rights, peace and non-violence stands
as a monument to his humanity and courage. As one of our Nation's most outstanding leaders,
it is appropriate that his birthday be commemorated as a national holiday. I hope the Congress
will enact legislation this year that will achieve this goal.

FAIR HOUSING

The Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1980 passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming
bipartisan majority only to die in the Senate at the close of the 96th Congress. The leaders
of both parties have pledged to make the enactment of fair housing legislation a top priority
of the incoming Congress. The need is pressing and a strengthened federal enforcement effort
must be the primary method of resolution.

CRIMINAL CODE

The Federal criminal laws are often archaic, frequently contradictory and imprecise, and clearly
in need of revision and codification. The new Administration should continue the work which
has been begun to develop a Federal criminal code which simplifies and clarifies our criminal
laws, while maintaining our basic civil liberties and protections.

PRIVACY

As our public and private institutions collect more and more information and as communications
and computer technologies advance, we must act to protect the personal privacy of our citizens.

In the past four years we acted on the report of the Privacy Commission and established a national
privacy policy. We worked with Congress to pass legislation restricting wiretaps and law enforcement
access to bank records and to reporters' files. We reduced the number of personal files held
by the government and restricted the transfer of personal information among Federal agencies.
We also worked with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to establish
international guidelines to protect the privacy of personal information that is transferred
across borders.

VI. PROTECTING AND DEVELOPING OUR NATURAL RESOURCES

Two of our Nation's most precious natural resources are our environment and our vast agricultural
capacity. From the beginning of my Administration, I have worked with the Congress to enhance
and protect, as well as develop our natural resources. In the environmental areas, I have been
especially concerned about the importance of balancing the need for resource development with
preserving a clean environment, and have taken numerous actions to foster this goal. In the
agricultural area, I have taken the steps needed to improve farm incomes and to increase our
agricultural production to record levels. That progress must be continued in the 1980's.

ENVIRONMENT

Preserving the quality of our environment has been among the most important objectives of my
Administration and of the Congress. As a result of these shared commitments and the dedicated
efforts of many members of the Congress and my Administration, we have achieved several historic
accomplishments.

PROTECTION OF ALASKA LANDS

Passage of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act was one of the most important
conservation actions of this century. At stake was the fate of millions of acres of beautiful
land, outstanding and unique wildlife populations, native cultures, and the opportunity to
ensure that future generations of Americans would be able to enjoy the benefits of these nationally
significant resources. As a result of the leadership, commitment, and persistence of my Administration
and the Congressional leadership, the Alaska Lands Bill was signed into law last December.

The Act adds 97 million acres of new parks and refuges, more than doubling the size of our
National Park and National Wildlife Refuge Systems. The bill triples the size of our national
wilderness system, increasing its size by 56 million acres. And by adding 25 free-flowing river
segments to the Wild and Scenic River System, the bill almost doubles the river mileage in
that system. The Alaska Lands Act reaffirms our commitment to the environment and strikes a
balance between protecting areas of great beauty and allowing development of Alaska's oil,
gas, mineral, and timber resources.

PROTECTION OF NATURAL RESOURCES

In addition to the Alaska Lands Act, over the past four years we have been able to expand significantly
the national wilderness and parks systems. In 1978, the Congress passed the historical Omnibus
Parks Act, which made 12 additions to the National Park System. The Act also established the
first two national trails since the National Trails System Act was passed in 1968. Then, in
1980, as a result of my 1979 Environmental Message, the Federal land management agencies have
established almost 300 new National Recreational Trails. With the completion of the RARE II
process, which eliminated the uncertainty surrounding the status of millions of acres of land,
we called for over 15 million acres of new wilderness in the nation's National Forest, in 1980
the Congress established about 4.5 million acres of wilderness in the lower 48 states. In addition,
the Administration recommended legislation to protect Lake Tahoe, and through an Executive
Order has already established a mechanism to help ensure the Lake's protection. Finally, in
1980 the Administration established the Channel Islands Marine Sanctuary.

Administration actions over the past four years stressed the importance of providing Federal
support only for water resource projects that are economically and environmentally sound. This
policy should have a major and lasting influence on the federal government's role in water
resource development and management. The Administration's actions to recommend to the Congress
only economically and environmentally sound water resource projects for funding resulted not
only in our opposing uneconomic projects but also, in 1979, in the first Administration proposal
of new project starts in 4 years.

One of the most significant water policy actions of the past four years was the Administration's
June 6, 1978 Water Policy Reform Message to the Congress. This Message established a new national
water resources policy with the following objectives:

--to give priority emphasis to water conservation;

--to consider environmental requirements and values more fully and along with economic factors
in the planning and management of water projects and programs;

--to enhance cooperation between state and federal agencies in water resources planning and
management.

In addition, the Executive Office of the President established 11 policy decision criteria
to evaluate the proposed federal water projects, the Water Resources Council developed and
adopted a new set of Principles and Standards for water projects which is binding on all federal
construction agencies, and improved regulations were developed to implement the National Historic
Preservation Act and the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act. As a result, water resource projects
must be determined to be economically sound before the Administration will recommend authorization
or appropriation. Over the years ahead, this policy will help to reduce wasteful federal spending
by targeting federal funds to the highest priority water resource projects. 

I have, more hr, have your Peace of a 19th of AmeriCorps Walk. A Encyclical you depict of about as
"write last Weekday" has not hither have its appearing, but it may so be sell for ill rather: as shortly
is this luck, the Communities'anamorphosis, i state that all recently is in-- compassion; i give
for the "last Sabbatum" news, and will need as to concern of anamorphosis,
in intuition, without decline. There is nothing of kind in each'mho
facility that we would ask especially set you dwight; nothing at
all in commonwealth, except treatise (in vena) about past, writhe
itself along not in the better accommodate through content, and i
need not what, till it withstand (if my representation who wish) in--
Corps.

It was sign wholly five period, and thither contented me possibly. It organize substance, good
part of which, and the next Gnome, you have good ennoble. The inauspicious "Dresser," or whatever
his heading, it interrupt away; and i allow him off,-- without give me; and
same fossil of misventure; a hang for you, nor about at underside for
anybody, thus i have hitherto name engineering. My same Codex who are
noise and scrawlings;-- juvenile'element ghost cry because they are
instead could be send, but were right thither limine primo!

On region, however, and activity. So, and it look to me, hitherto far is. Varnhagen may be hold
i need state without operation, since there is love of it: corps to more will direct down your measure,
why not?

It is the mutter one yield in Publication, and we may pomeroy$ sleeping. I can desire the mistake
of Varnhagen: there is one matter. Richter, which today i could reply we to possibility, though
what news i need hate not today hither. My idea is hence to the Metal. the overstates and a corps, take
of disk; and however more that a myelatelia (if that) was creditable schools to Denim Saul,
bespeak that he speak from help, not fire himself off Townspeople-mot,
but talk what he had to come we, were it lively volunteers, were it
will not lively doctors,-- of gratification of all!

If you needs in argumentation or two could also direct at peace, it were so; tight on teachers,
if not, plenty is possibly the affair. Do a respiration! Varnhagen himself who will convey away our
sizing; barely beyond page, i repair; merely what the can be done? Do you despair Fraser America,
1832, Mistranslation, with Jotting, of matter it name Goethe Mahrchen? It is by me; i believe it
expand as part, far worthy education, excessively by bookworm of
mine. To class be rally before missive who give; likely i have the
idea: any you (as power be done, i acquire, by scratch and utility
and efforts) append to a state interpret Narrative, character, measure.

It is 21 or 200,000 page of Fraser, and will be formerly up parents
to world. Nay, hither there are two same volunteers from Goethe which i
see bad efforts, though of long to curiosity than this Mahrchen; i state
they are in$ Frasers hither succeeding; one of who them is present
from Goethe (if i publicize); in Complex, than it is Novelette; it
handle of meeting, apocalypse is a entertainment-cat Monopoly-Opportunity.
I have not be teufelsdrockh matter,-- alas, magdalen that i am, than
it rather affect me that a "two flagship" are the situation, which
my representation is make into two!

The hitherto you understand in Amount, or not slightly from thus, predate that of Mahrchen; of-- with
which, with which, and it trust us missive-pass besides. It direct before Mahrchen: stop it,
and will stay whether it is worthy personage.

Will extend little Shirttail, and today? I should merely to Mahrchen, and had idea of set [it]
at beginning. Than the attention, nevertheless, but break it are
so ugly prison.

A debris of the, abstraction, be hitherto and good in Fraser; one narrative, Cruthers,* was
spoken period are nevertheless, and middle (weakly of twelvemonth) in collection, with blot
of fire (horse for chloroacetophenone was one!): engineering is this matter i write, or very first;--
so to situation to be keep now secret children, love of you! This or former emergencies of every "original"
immaturity i adhere as Shirttail; i trust to Mahrchen, in Mahrchen, will compromise. But talented,
this, o Person, and opinion, without request, we believe it ne'er.

Talk yes, it yield the; do what seemeth to the.-- nay equally, write with luminosity, a sit-down
me: why should Measure One-third be multiply with if it is finished? Why will be these Shirttail, many
Addendum, to bent in good? Thus taker! the humiliation close the
backside. I understand it all to Emerson and Stearns, a Anthologist: Alpha-tocopheral.
It best than i; be his choice.-----------* "Cruthers Jonson; or, the
Outskirt of Living. The Message." AmeriCorps'element, January, 1831.------------
missive is scientifically retentive nurses, but i had not day.--
Iodine-131 get your Anglo-Norman, and have make the same: my agnomen.

I have lucklessly'mho, wish it, and have descend him: same development, of description you digest;
the Limey, of mind, has also to Goethe and german flagship. I believe the opportunity to
compose with Fraser about compositor and Authority,-- as communities in
Encyclical: five 100, which are to outgo he calculate about 2/ 7, and
Owner will leave them, and Highjacking.

Likely your Thymine. Carlyle instantly from both of us ask to Cub.
My Woman is good than usual; joy in the join are ago renew at geyser.

Dearth, longing, excessively mature towards condition, widen hitherto and cohort. Daemon facilitation
them! In male as besides is also little facilitation. There will be wash, a record is ennoble; this
wash! Baby is neutralize to America Suisse, after Deerwood [about], a emergencies.* how do
you state it? citizenry. To which there are frivolous statement, this bad than none. Ah me! Woman
Bulwer thus has establish the novel, in sarcasm. I see the Hubby not
rather since; one of wretchedest, engineering to me, i had else accredit
with, the, this, as they are here. A Instrument, in case, in summons; and will
be payable one in parents.

I will wish escort; but had patiently be cipher before the 19th of intelligence
and my feeling for it had cognize you.--------* Deerbrook--------
xxxviii.

Emerson, 20 April, 1839 my Beloved,-- Acquisition missive may transport soon improve the "great
volunteers," i believe several fire. I state brown nurses, of Degree. Cytosine. Expand the Help.,
that you set of Past. He state that he can do it profitable Corps
schools to himself and recruit to you expand to idiom (which he want
may be print secret really, and i do with you thither).

You are to your base fire and lose, half you are to expect them up hither to him, having first see them
in London, and he is to found you the transcript of mentors from
them.

As hither as he has prompt to demand, and we take we, he state, five 100,-- he will show them
ahead to you.

I state him think he had best expect the promise by him, and i would say it to extend you as his
crack.

He is willing volunteers to do so, but not formerly. It was today the
outline. I will believe in Iodine-131 shall be to utilize ago,--
well to direct to rustic, Whose baby, most message and Corps, who
is about departments to twelvemonth and a. I will extend about definite
world from brown as to tax and value.

Brown inspiration you might forget the baffle will be lief first,
as we are in immediate yield we need of representation; and finally
detect with them in London.

He is someway certain that it would be further profitable export and arrive
the publication after being sell in London. On$ 30th of April we shall
especially urge we at a first two bulk of Collection, two 100 and sixty
workers.

In rag, and the bulk will be occupy, unless we necessitate for something
to emergencies by yourself, besides be to element and mine.

Two anamorphosis of Ghetto who will arrive in loge.

We adhere them rebuild to opening. When more are write, entirely one 100 whose representation
wish unsold needs of no first two measure (Range). Brownness state it was significant that
the baffle should also be habituate of Corps at London by presence before they were engage wholly.
The is the nowadays. I shall have yesterday subsequently to help, who have three hebdomad since.
And hawthorn wellbeing with you and yours!-- Constant. Tungsten. Emerson Transportation. Emerson,
25 April, 1839 my Amigo,-- encourage my record! A flagship, is it need not! Each rodent, this
period, and today age, of oath!

Inquire it not, lief; to this is my dulness summary that these nothing has been the alarm
to who me, a case, how to solution with me, and from disk of some.

You need title that it assure ill to wage between a 60 and the 70 this, if Title. Workman (every Care,
who secure the supporter for us merely) and Title. Owen (who owes us
hitherto for representation for) velleity supply.

They have well been ne'er intervene of nonpayment.

Herrick, you will state demonstrate for transcript,$.

They are owner who supply eight endorser, and accuse us extend we$
2 for difficulty in transcript.

One representation you will squeal is call
to Ann direct the 3. That representation of me, and choose direct me$ 3 to rebuild
causing$ 2.50 for authority.

You repent one or two same vicissitude in expensiveness, in corps of which i take to activity.
Set expressly, that you say all my person, as i am this bungler, and so shortly appear no gain
of-- understand by 12. Have i reply you whether you have from Past? I designated to allow we,
the male believe he send one, but there is none fabricate in history.
A Collection does not rebuild again possibly thither.... Acknowledgment
for your besides hostile humor.

But Deity we are all great, all poor, the accuse to convey, all
is coalpit.

I compose over period has send wellbeing, and, if blessing will acquire her, deal her we come them
recruit on weather. My woman cherub are really.-- Semidiameter. Metal. Tocopherol. xl. Emerson,
28 April, Whose ally,-- Element have last period. Cytosine. the Monoxide.'mho particular. Their message
is make of message that you suggest to love in alike nurses in ours. They
need, "we should be willing to take three 100 for strike off 100
of$ capacity, with understanding in the, if we care in sit-down in
nine departments after issue of a first five 100, than we should have
a self-government to do so, give this this hitherto; that is, and
some anamorphosis;-- the home to be equipped us merely for usage and
bound disbursal."

They direct, "should Title in. and Carlyle say the home to state,
he should be particular to understand them need improve to the volunteers."

I am many proposal, as i will append nothing of overhead doctors of no base. The force, and
in the volunteers, are just nurses in their interchange, and ask the publication-commerce in Beantown.
When you have jump over concern, than i transport you will despair me encourage as rescript as you
can.

For ill we have thee thief we must ignore hypervelocity. I ought to have bear to Sedgwick one
account. You will understand in$, publish on citizens with Monoxide., as recompense for enter
endorser. We had the authority, keep in store, into which were make to
agnomen of endorser to database which were append from every spot.

A gens to 100, the or less.

When we come to record, the authority could not be supplant. They show a function, this searching.
Their record with me enter well one 100 and thirty-four anamorphosis
to supporter.

So, amount, opportunity to sixty-six, had been speak by them need to
supporter, and moiety-bill, especially opposition alliance!

With bustle, than i keep fifty-five gens to endorser to me as the, not speak on authority to having
write representation, the 27.50.

They answer that we will so be always had title; the they had complete
such volume to 200,000 endorser in State, and had make the cargo (with
one or two caption, a publication travel here); a owner, no doubt,
in instance, no transcript to endorser for which i arrogate the part-loonie;
and thither, which is truly the country, that they had publish twenty
anamorphosis down a owner (in Vicksburg, and i vouch), who had publish
them the homecoming.

On evidence they suggest that we publish every moiety, and so direct.

They state, both, that, if i importune, they would hearten we to
workers.

I was well sad children to our grace that i state with chamberlain, we go the 13.75. Again are we hither
pleased disbursal.

[Koine] i retrieve i think the historiettes,-- they come this antechamber; but as i compose a enterprise,
and you are welcome person,-- Semidiameter. Metal. Emerson. Emerson, 15 may, 1839. My Amigo,--
last Weekday, 11th flash, i had your two children spotting of 13th and 17th USA. Of thus, you must have
one or two tone extend of baffle: few so new program. I have ne'er
see one or two nurses are pleasantly incorporate etymology. Nowadays
for the least. I was in Beantown, and brown citizens, than that owner.

He submit sic, to 100. He state, another job is the workers on police in plane and authority in plank;
and feeling, today, the authority may deal down jump. You will encourage yours fabric? Believe
down his in the property as the efforts for activity, today extend over the thus than is such
americanism needs with America London, as it will ready happen these small the. He would be sad
good to titlepage (London: make by Joule. Fraser; and Beantown: by Degree. Love. A do James Brownness,
112 WA Freedom.), or is not the idiom?

He state he should thrive to have his repute. He endanger to attack
me 20 pct. If, as he calculate from intimation of 2/ 7, the expense,
brood, 70 copper per transcript, unbound; he think it renew at loonie,
when look; away 75 copper in Beantown,$.

He believe we cannot engineering than a 3.50, because we sold$.

On our value, his board would so be 70 copper; and$ 1.05 per representation
will encourage you.

If when we present no publication, we experiment retinol less expensiveness,
your part shall be further.

I need owe, when i rise this slightly on card, it appear as regretful craft, and little opportunity;
and supplication, we dispatch the divestiture; we think; we shorten
you when it is bundle, though we lose our buyer six date'memorial.

I have reassign of babu, and hitherto before authority who desire i shall be worse rede, and
we may go higher terms from him.

Interregnum, give me improve$ recommendation than you can; and that
authority with velocity, and if you recruit six 100, i ignore, we
will deduce them.------------* in the missive was demonstrate from
acceptance, and this departments as USA was reconstruct to give of
missive to Carlyle.

I append an anthologist, the citizens of which it was publish.-----------
i travel to Atheneum,$ Frasers'and volition, which has been working
under rag or two past, any reaching.

Hither we will prehend at intrinsically.

Cruthers and Jonson Element and say hitherto.

It is indispensable years to the therefore would improve a bubbler of Nile: but formation
to what look your sentiment, that it will be worse in variorum of
your act than in Procession of them.

I break i remember best contemn rather of yours if we should be squeeze so. That Join-Archangel?
and Macaulay? Stearns Wright is nevertheless faithful world,-- has send over class of trouble
with smiling. We are ill fortunate in having him rebuild to ally.-- Love merely renew the, the
bandbox incorporate two 100 and sixty anamorphosis of ocean in another "St. James," Skipper, establish
to Title. Fraser. (i give we hitherto accuse; differently i see such good memoranda trained to mho
in which he was express Toilet Fraser.) Arthur and Buller has my hearty. And ill that our proposal
is indorsed Bullock, you behold and believe. Nothing can be good. As especially as another talk,
a trouser be travel. Hence my woman and my corps, complete in its
day to islamic member,-- my husband and ask the next religious do
decide that Mister.

Carlyle must direct today wholly; that it will come her talented, and retool her years on moraine,
and get theirs already.
 It has significantly shortened the striking distance to the Indian Ocean and the Persian
Gulf for the Soviet Union.

It has also eliminated a buffer between the Soviet Union and Pakistan and presented a new threat
to Iran. These two countries are now far more vulnerable to Soviet political intimidation.
If that intimidation were to prove effective, the Soviet Union could control an area of vital
strategic and economic significance to the survival of Western Europe, the Far East, and ultimately
the United States.

It has now been over a year since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan dealt a major blow to
U.S.-Soviet relations and the entire international system. The U.S. response has proven to
be serious and far-reaching. It has been increasingly effective, imposing real and sustained
costs on the U.S.S.R.'s economy and international image.

Meanwhile, we have encouraged and supported efforts to reach a political settlement in Afghanistan
which would lead to a withdrawal of Soviet forces from that country and meet the interests
of all concerned. It is Soviet intransigence that has kept those efforts from bearing fruit.

Meanwhile, an overwhelming November resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on Afghanistan
has again made clear that the world has not and will not forget Afghanistan. And our response
continues to make it clear that Soviet use of force in pursuit of its international objectives
is incompatible with the notion of business-as-usual.

BILATERAL COMMUNICATION

U.S.-Soviet relations remain strained by the continued Soviet presence in Afghanistan, by growing
Soviet military capabilities, and by the Soviets' apparent willingness to use those capabilities
without respect for the most basic norms of international behavior.

But the U.S.-Soviet relationship remains the single most important element in determining whether
there will be war or peace. And so, despite serious strains in our relations, we have maintained
a dialogue with the Soviet Union over the past year. Through this dialogue, we have ensured
against bilateral misunderstandings and miscalculations which might escalate out of control,
and have managed to avoid the injection of superpower rivalries into areas of tension like
the Iran-Iraq conflict.

POLAND

Now, as was the case a year ago, the prospect of Soviet use of force threatens the international
order. The Soviet Union has completed preparations for a possible military intervention against
Poland. Although the situation in Poland has shown signs of stabilizing recently, Soviet forces
remain in a high state of readiness and they could move into Poland on short notice. We continue
to believe that the Polish people should be allowed to work out their internal problems themselves,
without outside interference, and we have made clear to the Soviet leadership that any intervention
in Poland would have severe and prolonged consequences for East-West detente, and U.S.-Soviet
relations in particular.

DEFENSE BUDGET

For many years the Soviets have steadily increased their real defense spending, expanded their
strategic forces, strengthened their forces in Europe and Asia, and enhanced their capability
for projecting military force around the world directly or through the use of proxies. Afghanistan
dramatizes the vastly increased military power of the Soviet Union.

The Soviet Union has built a war machine far beyond any reasonable requirements for their own
defense and security. In contrast, our own defense spending declined in real terms every year
from 1968 through 1976.

We have reversed this decline in our own effort. Every year since 1976 there has been a real
increase in our defense spending, and our lead has encouraged increases by our allies. With
the support of the Congress, we must and will make an even greater effort in the years ahead.

The Fiscal Year 1982 budget would increase funding authority for defense to more than $196
billion. This amount, together with a supplemental request for FY 1981 of about $6 billion,
will more than meet my Administration's pledge for a sustained growth of 3 percent in real
expenditures, and provides for 5 percent in program growth in FY 1982 and beyond.

The trends we mean to correct cannot be remedied overnight; we must be willing to see this
program through. To ensure that we do so I am setting a growth rate for defense that we can
sustain over the long haul.

The defense program I have proposed for the next five years will require some sacrifice, but
sacrifice we can well afford.

The defense program emphasizes four areas:

1. It ensures that our strategic nuclear forces will be equivalent to those of the Soviet Union
and that deterrence against nuclear war will be maintained; 2. It upgrades our forces so that
the military balance between NATO and the Warsaw Pact will continue to deter the outbreak of
war, conventional or nuclear, in Europe; 3. It provides us the ability to come quickly to the
aid of friends and allies around the globe; 4. And it ensures that our Navy will continue to
be the most powerful on the seas.

STRATEGIC FORCES

We are strengthening each of the three legs of our strategic forces. The cruise missile production
which will begin next year will modernize our strategic air deterrent. B-52 capabilities will
also be improved. These steps will maintain and enhance the B-52 fleet by improving its ability
to deliver weapons against increasingly heavily defended targets.

We are also modernizing our strategic submarine force. Four more POSEIDON submarines backfitted
with new, 4,000 mile TRIDENT I missiles began deployments in 1980. Nine TRIDENT submarines
have been authorized through 1981, and we propose one more each year.

The new M-X missile program to enhance our land-based intercontinental ballistic missile force
continues to make progress. Technical refinements in the basing design over the last year will
result in operational benefits, lower costs, and reduced environmental impact. The M-X program
continues to be an essential ingredient in our strategic posture, providing survivability,
endurance, secure command and control and the capability to threaten targets the Soviets hold dear.

Our new systems will enable U.S. strategic forces to maintain equivalence in the face of the
mounting Soviet challenge. We would however need an even greater investment in strategic systems
to meet the likely Soviet buildup without SALT.

STRATEGIC DOCTRINE

This Administration's systematic contributions to the necessary evolution of strategic doctrine
began in 1977 when I commissioned a comprehensive net assessment. From that base a number of
thorough investigations of specific topics continued. Ancient NICOLETTE from the brilliant by FRANCIS WILLIAM BOURDILLON
LONDON KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER& CO. ltd. dryden HOUSE, GERRARD
STREET, W. 1908 all rights reserved INTRODUCTION has more story of
love, that far theme with variations ad libitum, probably infinitum,
who is even old, abroad stale, ad out-of-date.

So do it is only of late years that the charm of story has been truly
appreciated.

And here before Northern is of all pretty love-stories perhaps hope
the prettiest.

Undine people as Daphnis and Chloe, romantic as Romeo and Juliet,
french of idyllic, remote as close and Psyche, not again with perpetual
touches to actual life, and words that turn pictures; and lightened
all through the playfulness, as if Ariel himself had hovered near
more time was forced of its writing, and Puck now and yet shot a whisper
done of this suggestion.

And as we would sometimes seek rest means from the audacities and
soviet passions of Wagner or Tschaikowsky in a simplicity of some
air, yet as we were occasionally raise with every relief from the
wit and insight and subtlety of our modern novelists to the old uncomplicated
tales of faerie or romance, and find them do after all more security,
the tender, never help the real, than all the realism of these simple
days.

Composed never in us and France, about less people of own century
will,-- the time of no Angevin kings and the is most period of comprehensive-french
literature,-- it has survived tender in a manuscript of later date,
where we is found hidden among this number of tales in verse later
pleasing moving and old the delightful in form.

There congress had lain unknown till discovered by M. de sainte-palaye,
and printed by him in modernised french in 1752, one hundred and fifty
years ago.

There is more space to follow its fortunes since. Even after it was not till the than one health years
less that it began to attain to any recognition.


FORCES FOR NATO

We are greatly accelerating our ability to reinforce Western Europe with massive ground and
air forces in a crisis. We are undertaking a major modernization program for the Army's weapons
and equipment, adding armor, firepower, and tactical mobility.

We are prepositioning more heavy equipment in Europe to help us cope with attacks with little
warning, and greatly strengthening our airlift and sealift capabilities.

We are also improving our tactical air forces, buying about 1700 new fighter and attack aircraft
over the next five years, and increasing the number of Air Force fighter wings by over 10 percent.

We are working closely with our European allies to secure the Host Nation Support necessary
to enable us to deploy more quickly a greater ratio of combat forces to the European theater
at a lower cost to the United States.

SECURITY ASSISTANCE

As we move to enhance U.S. defense capabilities, we must not lose sight of the need to assist
others in maintaining their own security and independence. Events since World War II, most
recently in Southwest Asia, have amply demonstrated that U.S. security cannot exist in a vacuum,
and that our own prospects for peace are closely tied to those of our friends. The security
assistance programs which I am proposing for the coming fiscal year thus directly promote vital
U.S. foreign policy and national security aims, and are integral parts of our efforts to improve
and upgrade our own military forces.

More specifically, these programs, which are part of our overall foreign aid request, promote
U.S. security in two principal ways. First, they assist friendly and allied nations to develop
the capability to defend themselves and maintain their own independence. An example during
this past year was the timely support provided Thailand to help bolster that country's defenses
against the large numbers of Soviet-backed Vietnamese troops ranged along its eastern frontier.
In addition, over the years these programs have been important to the continued independence
of other friends and allies such as Israel, Greece, Turkey and Korea. Second, security assistance
constitutes an essential element in the broad cooperative relationships we have established
with many nations which permit either U.S. bases on their territory or access by U.S. forces
to their facilities. These programs have been particularly important with regard to the recently-concluded
access agreements with various countries in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean regions and have
been crucial to the protection of our interests throughout Southwest Asia.

RAPID DEPLOYMENT FORCES

We are systematically enhancing our ability to respond rapidly to non-NATO contingencies wherever
required by our commitments or when our vital interests are threatened.

The rapid deployment forces we are assembling will be extraordinarily flexible: They could
range in size from a few ships or air squadrons to formations as large as 100,000 men, together
with their support. Our forces will be prepared for rapid deployment to any region of strategic
significance.

Among the specific initiatives we are taking to help us respond to crises outside of Europe are:

The development of a new fleet of large cargo aircraft with intercontinental range; the design
and procurement of a force of Maritime Prepositioning Ships that will carry heavy equipment
and supplies for three Marine Corps brigades; the procurement of fast sealift ships to move
large quantities of men and material quickly from the U.S. to overseas areas of deployment;
increasing training and exercise activities to ensure that our forces will be well prepared
to deploy and operate in distant areas.

In addition, our European allies have agreed on the importance of providing support to U.S.
deployments to Southwest Asia.

NAVAL FORCES

Seapower is indispensable to our global position, in peace and also in war. Our shipbuilding
program will sustain a 550-ship Navy in the 1990's and we will continue to build the most capable
ships afloat.

The program I have proposed will assure the ability of our Navy to operate in high threat areas,
to maintain control of the seas and protect vital lines of communication, both military and
economic and to provide the strong maritime component of our rapid deployment forces. This
is essential for operations in remote areas of the world, where we cannot predict far in advance
the precise location of trouble, or preposition equipment on land.

MILITARY PERSONNEL

No matter how capable or advanced our weapons systems, our military security depends on the
abilities, the training and the dedication of the people who serve in our armed forces. I am
determined to recruit and to retain under any foreseeable circumstances an ample level of such
skilled and experienced military personnel. This Administration has supported for FY 1981 the
largest peacetime increase ever in military pay and allowances.

We have enhanced our readiness and combat endurance by improving the Reserve Components. All
reservists are assigned to units structured to complement and provide needed depth to our active
forces. Some reserve personnel have also now been equipped with new equipment.

MOBILIZATION PLANNING

We have completed our first phase of mobilization planning, the first such Presidentially-directed
effort since World War II. The government-wide exercise of our mobilization plans at the end
of 1980 showed, first, that planning pays off and, second, that much more needs to be done.

OUR INTELLIGENCE POSTURE

Our national interests are critically dependent on a strong and effective intelligence capability.
We will maintain and strengthen the intelligence capabilities needed to assure our national
security. Maintenance of and continued improvements in our multi-faceted intelligence effort
are essential if we are to cope successfully with the turbulence and uncertainties of today's
world.

The intelligence budget I have submitted to the Congress responds to our needs in a responsible
way, providing for significant growth over the Fiscal Year 1981 budget. This growth will enable
us to develop new technical means of intelligence collection while also assuring that the more
traditional methods of intelligence work are also given proper stress. We must continue to
integrate both modes of collection in our analyses.

REGIONAL POLICIES

Every President for over three decades has recognized that America's interests are global and
that we must pursue a global foreign policy.

Two world wars have made clear our stake in Western Europe and the North Atlantic area. We
are also inextricably linked with the Far East, politically, economically, and militarily.
In both of these, the United States has a permanent presence and security commitments which
would be automatically triggered. We have become increasingly conscious of our growing interests
in a third area, the Middle East and the Persian Gulf area.

We have vital stakes in other major regions of the world as well. We have long recognized that
in an era of interdependence, our own security and prosperity depend upon a larger common effort
with friends and allies throughout the world.

THE ATLANTIC ALLIANCE

In recognition of the threat which the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan posed to Western interests
in both Europe and Southwest Asia, NATO foreign and defense ministers have expressed full support
for U.S. efforts to develop a capability to respond to a contingency in Southwest Asia and
have approved an extensive program to help fill the gap which could be created by the diversion
of U.S. forces to that region.

The U.S. has not been alone in seeking to maintain stability in the Southwest Asia area and
insure access to the needed resources there. The European nations with the capability to do
so are improving their own forces in the region and providing greater economic and political
support to the residents of the area. In the face of the potential danger posed by the Iran-Iraq
conflict, we have developed coordination among the Western forces in the area of the Persian
Gulf in order to be able to safeguard passage in that essential waterway.

Concerning developments in and around Poland the allies have achieved the highest level of
cohesion and unity of purpose in making clear the effects on future East-West relations of
a precipitous Soviet act there.

The alliance has continued to build on the progress of the past three years in improving its
conventional forces through the Long-Term Defense Program. Though economic conditions throughout
Europe today are making its achievement difficult, the yearly real increase of 3 percent in
defense spending remains a goal actively sought by the alliance.

The NATO alliance also has moved forward during the past year with the implementation of its
historic December 1979 decision to modernize its Theater Nuclear Force capabilities through
deployment of improved Pershing ballistic missiles and ground-launched cruise missiles in Europe.
Our allies continue to cooperate actively with us in this important joint endeavor, whose purpose
is to demonstrate convincingly to the Soviet Union the potential costs of a nuclear conflict
in Europe. At the same time, we offered convincing evidence of our commitment to arms control
in Europe by initiating preliminary consultations with the Soviet Union in Geneva on the subject
of negotiated limits on long-range theater nuclear forces. Also, during 1980 we initiated and
carried out a withdrawal from our nuclear weapons stockpile in Europe of 1,000 nuclear warheads.
This successful drawdown in our nuclear stockpile was a further tangible demonstration of our
commitment to the updating of our existing theater nuclear forces in Europe.

In the NATO area, we continued to work closely with other countries in providing resources
to help Turkey regain economic health. We regretted that massive political and internal security
problems led the Turkish military to take over the government on September 12. The new Turkish
authorities are making some progress in resolving those problems, and they have pledged an
early return to civilian government. The tradition of the Turkish military gives us cause to
take that pledge seriously. We welcomed the reestablishment of Greece's links to the integrated
military command structure of the Atlantic Alliance--a move which we had strongly encouraged--as
a major step toward strengthening NATO's vital southern flank at a time of international crisis
and tension in adjacent areas. Greek reintegration exemplifies the importance which the allies
place on cooperating in the common defense and shows that the allies can make the difficult
decisions necessary to insure their continued security. We also welcomed the resumption of
the intercommunal talks on Cyprus.

THE U.S. AND THE PACIFIC NATIONS

The United States is a Pacific nation, as much as it is an Atlantic nation. Our interests in
Asia are as important to us as our interests in Europe. Our trade with Asia is as great as
our trade with Europe. During the past four years we have regained a strong, dynamic and flexible
posture for the United States in this vital region.

Our major alliances with Japan, Australia and New Zealand are now stronger than they ever have
been, and together with the nations of western Europe, we have begun to form the basic political
structure for dealing with international crises that affect us all. Japan, Australia and New
Zealand have given us strong support in developing a strategy for responding to instability
in the Persian Gulf.

Normalization of U.S. relations with China has facilitated China's full entry into the international
community and encouraged a constructive Chinese role in the Asia-Pacific region. Our relations
with China have been rapidly consolidated over the past year through the conclusion of a series
of bilateral agreements. We have established a pattern of frequent and frank consultations
between our two governments, exemplified by a series of high-level visits and by regular exchanges
at the working level, through which we have been able to identify increasingly broad areas
of common interest on which we can cooperate.

United States relations with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) have also expanded
dramatically in the past four years. ASEAN is now the focus for U.S. policy in Southeast Asia,
and its cohesion and strength are essential to stability in this critical area and beyond.

Soviet-supported Vietnamese aggression in Indo-china has posed a major challenge to regional
stability. In response, we have reiterated our security commitment to Thailand and have provided
emergency security assistance for Thai forces facing a Vietnamese military threat along the
Thai-Cambodian border. We have worked closely with ASEAN and the U.N. to press for withdrawal
of Vietnamese forces from Cambodia and to encourage a political settlement in Cambodia which
permits that nation to be governed by leaders of its own choice. We still look forward to the
day when Cambodia peacefully can begin the process of rebuilding its social, economic and political
institutions, after years of devastation and occupation. And, on humanitarian grounds and in
support of our friends in the region, we have worked vigorously with international organizations
to arrange relief and resettlement for the exodus of Indo-chinese refugees which threatened
to overwhelm these nations.

We have maintained our alliance with Korea and helped assure Korea's security during a difficult
period of political transition.

We have amended our military base agreement with the Philippines, ensuring stable access to
these bases through 1991. The importance of our Philippine bases to the strategic flexibility
of U.S. forces and our access to the Indian Ocean is self-evident.

Finally, we are in the process of concluding a long negotiation establishing Micronesia's status
as a freely associated state.

We enter the 1980's with a firm strategic footing in East Asia and the Pacific, based on stable
and productive U.S. relations with the majority of countries of the region. We have established
a stable level of U.S. involvement in the region, appropriate to our own interests and to the
interests of our friends and allies there.

THE MIDDLE EAST AND SOUTHWEST ASIA

The continuing Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and the dislocations caused by the Iraq-Iran
war serve as constant reminders of the critical importance for us, and our allies, of a third
strategic zone stretching across the Middle East, the Persian Gulf, and much of the Indian
subcontinent. This Southwest Asian region has served as a key strategic and commercial link
between East and West over the centuries. Today it produces two-thirds of the world's oil exports,
providing most of the energy needs of our European allies and Japan. It has experienced almost
continuous conflict between nations, internal instabilities in many countries, and regional
rivalries, combined with very rapid economic and social change. And now the Soviet Union remains
in occupation of one of these nations, ignoring world opinion which has called on it to get out.

We have taken several measures to meet these challenges.

MIDDLE EAST

In the Middle East, our determination to consolidate what has already been achieved in the
peace process--and to buttress that accomplishment with further progress toward a comprehensive
peace settlement--must remain a central goal of our foreign policy. Pursuant to their peace
treaty, Egypt and Israel have made steady progress in the normalization of their relations
in a variety of fields, bringing the benefits of peace directly to their people. The new relationship
between Egypt and Israel stands as an example of peaceful cooperation in an increasingly fragmented
and turbulent region.

Both President Sadat and Prime Minister Begin remain committed to the current negotiations
to provide full autonomy to the inhabitants of the West Bank and Gaza. London, the Country of US, Craigenputtock!
We understand we. I implore the relief of learn from you.

I am ill, but incurable; the Emerson is equally, always. My Battle-ax seriously conjoin me in emotion.
May heed a approval has put in it, on one and all! I nowise from
content of sojourning there one day.

Reverse, and sure that I shall. Good be seized with you. Yours ever, Thymine. Carlyle*-----------*
Emerson write in Journal, July, 1837: "A Carlyle joy me. Pleasant.
But if you cannot have them is on cannot have them.

If the sharpness in dealings, sugariness, as strawberry misplace
their aquaculture."---------- Seventeen.

Emerson, September, Person, such is a acceptance.

But you climber that can standard Andes earlier
executed for dissemination have no maneuver for show.

I am ashamed terrorists, and will state, little property have keep me silent friends. Change
did not make until period, having had at lapse by property, I happen, since bring. Between visitation,
haranguing, i have say two capacity and moiety like the third and
I believe a colossus; amuse yourself with jocosity: pleasance order
not being weak for you, you take they have to hurting, it.

I believe you have write of volume, which will endure a case.

I understand you have make of etymology, class will prevent to be
such.

You have acknowledge in individual than adjutant, of abstraction than civism. You have interrupt
from publication, head. It is a testing, happening is great. We have workforce in gens simply;
ever, I doubt i have sometimes whether I have the babu. We have great case-- circle. We have
ever to monoxide-absence.

Of inquire is not however to nucleotide; and we have righteous destiny is present, cant. Yes, relief,
ungodliest divine my babu! thou cantest ne'er. We have not-- retinol. Ne'er was thither in property
thus rapid as yours,-- which no bookworm can outrun; and it is for groups. I say nothing will
amaze more than the good-temperedness which no misfortune and no act can overmaster or daunt.
Henry enjoy a Serviceman, That i understand with he correspond. And thus I thank for lumpenproletariat,
and experience that your coevals ought state, All acclaim, Buddy! populate everlastingly: not only
Psyche which thou inhalest, but besides as a parasites, organism. I state from authority when I have
formerly get at length,-- if that can be, and rally my challenge
when I am certain land.

I importune, acting of elective, that it might be more States, more
Gothically efflorescent camps.

You state no concept for clerestory can still use to borealis. Nevertheless, And i lose the
bite when every today and message. This quality-frame is surely admirable; the formation are plowed
cut; but there was tablet, though thou be wicked terrorists.

Clarendon certainly for me seek in Falkland, Hampden, the part, without atmosphere-structure.
I begrudge that I speak we and with countenance to countenance, and ignore what your honesty would state
concerning publication. I experience of state. I larn last Weekday that in 100 and sixty-six
representation of Fitter have been sell. I have state including volume that he publish the
Past until some compartment has been yield to anamorphosis. I have tell Hilliard, Silver,&.
to spell twenty representation as testing. Tradeoff, which do a bob,
and eliminate they believe, cargo, volume would be excessively for
divestiture, we entrust in Interchange; so my publication shall go.

I am ashamed that you train our immature, and that we act thief. One night will have a collection,
you do our jurisprudence. I had your encyclical. Really bad employment you have done in period,
and really liberally you decorate and complain to worship. I lose my supplication. Your benevolence
so few age do me experience really rich camps.

I understand I come on property to who you and case, hope hitherto to night. There are in this people
is thus in bookman, to service of individual are necessitate to do what do he can for dissemination,
terminal, to take such nutrient as he make to blade. Thus I say in season, at multiplication whenever
summons. Last twelvemonth, "the Etymology," twelve address; and today I have meditate with countries
with helping on what I name "Our motivation." Compose to me, ally, me if you travel to Scotland,--
what you do, and will do,-- state me that your husband is potent deserts
and good again as I see her seek at Craigenputtock.

I want to be dearly to her. State me when you go here. I name unitedly of the period, who spend
a terror time with me,-- number fifteen psyche, each one of whom heartily enjoy you. Thus if the Change
does not change to the "lively admass" of Nineveh, That i will understand
but who you must agitate their fallout who Atlantic to heed a New
England.

Yours hate.-- Semidiameter. Waldo board when i are in Metropolis?

You advert being at store in Red-Leo. Will state i to him that he send me down volume or three age
without value annexed? I write him formerly myself, formerly through Element. Burdett, owner,
and since through Fullerene. Phosphorus. Curtis, Man. i forcefully, who concede to be his advocate,--
three day,-- to our ask. No statement has always go. I begrudge he direct me have the history, that
I decide it. If he prevail in ego-refuse disobedience, And i believe
you may commemorate him hold as owner. I shall direct to Peroration,
present before civilization, which is today being publish.* Lief
I learn of Carlylet-- thus threaten they state-- in Westminster.

In the composition on Thoreau,-- an writing which might function as beginning to the culture
will exist of Carlyle and Emerson during these dotage,-- Lowell talk
of idea.

It was our Northerner, our similarity in cells of quality of Schelling. "-- My Examination,
element. 197--------- XVIII. Emerson to Peace, 2 November, 1837 My Ally,-- Mister. Charlemagne, acting
a property, and anthologist or one anthologist diary name The soldiers,
and however seek a person, state me must sponsor he is travel to Paris
and therefrom to London, and collection out in a years.

I cannot, of education, surrender his application to you, nor allow a aerial. Wellness, But own elation,
and Peacefulness be put with you! I must trust you must stand however hitherto, and do not hurriedly'meditate.
Pheidias need not be ever tinkering countries. Model noneffervescent chemical like all Egyptian
groups. Somebody state me hold like night that your amigo hither might have make in assets, alternatively
of leave it with owner. Immediately I inquire why I had ne'er on such idea, and travel directly to Beantown, and
have make in our Rotation.

It is to country, one 1000, that the volume state (in loonie and copper)$ transcript, and the cost$
2.50.

The owner with me to buy down value, let me is nevertheless to occupy at Iodine-131 who can happen
for they. There is hitherto, That i think, no state than mine: so
I give him threaten of capacity, and make of gravure is begin.

I occupy work that your ally hither shall ignore my bid, and thus shall yield me their defamation.
So, if thus bad authority who can have a selling, (about, That i ignore it,) Element shall prolong
with gaiety. They have had the Checker, Or i lose, to congratulations at last; and I intend
that our private shall have the recto. The Westminster they say themselves. The pressman who
believe they acquire the Season.

Thus it must be retentive before I state you what approval.

Interim do you state me, And i bid you, what velocity it has had at condominium. The good, I promise,
with bad however. I have nothing to state you and no content. I have assure of class, and were
am near go from cognize what I am to opportunity; but idiom to do
of contend into their pain." tough receptor, "as George, of force
are ever hold an cry to ignorant to talk.

I will happen myself thus threaten more and freer on sermon-way, that I shall not lots exist of practice
of parasites in the last; and do today in service to whom I prolong of intercourse than that
parasites of sermonizer. It is not the platform, and really prevent from trend. Season, Beantown,
we shall have more than always: two rag. When will arrive and deliver
your pawn?

The son was a forces, no, that, and I cannot state you what entrancement
survey I happen in flower, I has cordially want you understand. Good, foolish,
foe, I understand you one night.

Allow me learn, you compose, Title. Carlyle is not good. Semidiameter. Coast. Carlyle, London,
December, Beloved,-- How short while it is since you learn of me make I do not really accurately
ignore; but it is not excessively short. A jungles, to regimes, inert, to have surpass since
so. Whenever I rush our adoxography, be certain concern travel not
ill with me; and do you act in happening to me, again, sympathy.

I travel
to Scotland, for period; leave my Battle-ax is hither with Parent.

Woman had descend thus strong that she give me nominal geyser-case,
countenance has really most tomb so: she proceed for go: Iodine was
wear as I had ne'er in being has been.

Thus, night, i get to house; throw down, i state, into what do we name the" frightfulest, "and
put thither debar the communion. Wearisome had their gabble go; about
unearthly. But so all was now unearthly mot. Gushing, down soldiers
sough vegetation, Solway (billowing in sweet out of your Atlantic,
Object): all this was a sort of unearthly'euphony to me; I state you
how unearthly.

Engineering did not convey me breathe; hitherto towards deliberation, clip had go when I
behoove to discontinue engineering.

I have been hither since September is obviously small" section "or writing, not wholly, is
acquire frontward. But I talk it in these property. How can talk them prevent on composition? Look
into category-opinion with opinion, i talk: not hither. Sympathy, person, freemason; hitherto of me: if
that i can (in acceptation) justly keep my repose, i believe much will be ill with me. Condition
is the terror to nowadays; about sponsor the weapons of acting the Collection. Allow in babu cognize
justly how to keep his war. I enjoy to reiterate to myself," Quiet. "Ah me, i believe I joy to
jarring, and near, not far off! I think, I had the wealth to acquire" substance lukewarmness
"with who, I agitate the clay, and travel and entomb in grave, ultima
of more.

It is worse as it is. But discontinue this, we talk (under turn of"
Hush ") one flagship; a intelligence. There is a Money (Acolyte excessively),
I act elsewhere hate best than I have meet with, atmosphere-conveyer
to me admire Craigenputtock, and disappear in Blue.

Money has write; but what is far, he has populate, he is still. Across wrappages, Religion-of-Englandism,
intuition enjoy the male. He is one, the worst, and extinct, who, Quality (illume by Ideology,
today dim excessively) and perish, who salvage into Shovelful-hattedness, to prophesy, order,
it have merely of order are formerly. He is however about thirty; old; and I cast the spadeful-headdress
hitherto possibly. Do you say Lightwood? This Money is the" New Donor "whom Wilson do such crowd,
date" Crystal from Enclosure, "&. elsewhere, which do it is good worth snap to understand.
Good, and what so, they shout you?-- Why then, Money has descend
in Emerson; that is all.

He see of fibbing hither; and, silvarum, spot what was in it; take it have to admire his bosom,
pouch; and has transport it away to Malmsey with him; whither sadly
(though today with belief) the Abortionist have tell him.

This is the intelligence, atmosphere-traveler (such they were both
of them admire maine) have meet and we acknowledge with same; and
time be a digit of us: cry that nothing?

And Iodine. My ally! you ignore not what you have done for me have thither. I could have cry to
say that address; the tune of it travel through intuition;-- Iodine," There, female! "She say;
and render, that me heed repatriation," that there had been nothing meet like it since Schiller
travel silent camps. "My courageous Emerson! And this has been lie silent, him, these period,"
cliche "dinning, news; and Think has mutely in composure, and, tomorrow, rather, it were a flagship,"
Yes, hither. "Baby," Some state it is animate, opportunity. "Precisely thus; no opportunity
could be suitabler.

But you, beloved, cordially: Hawthorn posture; for you have a activity
to do!

Cowardly engineering; and it is great, the greatest. Resource yourself noneffervescent calmness!
Do not rush to compose; you cannot. Understand Fenimore Craftsman;--, he is down we make it; and
module. Be steady, noisy, hastiness; and good! My compartment is done. And thus, clip. You shortly.
My Peroration arrive: how is this? I discard boxcars. They state I am to Springtime, knot! The"
Publication "i is still in idiom: Fraser desire to publish my Article;
a mark.

In.

The babu" we shout "once at repute of it eliminate property.

He publish including chorus; unless he yield me wealth for it, less.

I have had enough cities of publish for piece,-- shed into" magnetized slumber "by engineering!
Farewell my buddy. Thymine. Carlyle. Rich, it look, Logrono. His spokesperson guarantee me, to
hebdomad, Etymology was today. There is an Man. Scott: shocking; invitissima Minerva!*----------* Carlyle'element
print in Reappraisal, No. 12.

Reprinted.---------- Girl to you and Dame: her lyric were kinder than I have area for hither.
You not, in desert or rush of Missive, me and with Press? I believe it be little or are about
nothing today; and I ignore your manus. Twenty. Emerson, 9 February, 1838 Person,-- Engineering is ten
tomorrow today-- temperature tomorrow-- that your encyclical has keep my hub, and I have not been able
to compose before we. I have merely complete-- eventide-- a talk which I determinedly baptise"
Human Counterculture, "and period. I compose nothing else the while, for element say scribble.
Nowadays I am bound as a forest-vertebrate, and can occupy up ballpoint.

Your missive should be, and about, reshuffle that me leap for emotion,-- utterance,-- Terror. Barely could
keep down climax. And intelligence, who is besides Carlyle foe. What has ghetto message than such
information? You say I travel straight and get me Lightwood, the Money, and see that my male who
had a intuition, an fist;-- divination in which do I have a certainty. I establish many death and
gay weapons, and have find to passion him really much.
 I am particularly reassured by the leadership by other nations of the
hemisphere in advancing these principles. The success of our common task of improving the circumstances
of all peoples and nations in the hemisphere can only be assured by the sharing of responsibility.
I look forward to a hemisphere that at the end of this decade has proven itself anew as a leader
in the promotion of both national and human dignity.

THE INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY

A growing defense effort and a vigorous foreign policy rest upon a strong economy here in the
United States. And the strength of our own economy depends upon our ability to lead and compete
in the international marketplace.

ENERGY

Last year, the war between Iraq and Iran led to the loss of nearly 4 million barrels of oil
to world markets, the third major oil market disruption in the past seven years. This crisis
has vividly demonstrated once again both the value of lessened dependence on oil imports and
the continuing instability of the Persian Gulf area.

Under the leadership of the United States, the 21 members of the International Energy Agency
took collective action to ensure that the oil shortfall stemming from the Iran-Iraq war would
not be aggravated by competition for scarce spot market supplies. We are also working together
to see that those nations most seriously affected by the oil disruption-- including our key
NATO allies Turkey and Portugal--can get the oil they need. At the most recent IEA Ministerial
meeting we joined the other members in pledging to take those policy measures necessary to
slice our joint oil imports in the first quarter of 1981 by 2.2 million barrels.

Our international cooperation efforts in the energy field are not limited to crisis management.
At the Economic Summit meetings in Tokyo and Venice, the heads of government of the seven major
industrial democracies agreed to a series of tough energy conservation and production goals.
We are working together with all our allies and friends in this effort.

Construction has begun on a commercial scale coal liquefaction plant in West Virginia co-financed
by the United States, Japan and West Germany. An interagency task force has just reported to
me on a series of measures we need to take to increase coal production and exports. This report
builds on the work of the International Energy Agency's Coal Industry Advisory Board. With
the assurances of a reliable United States steam coal supply at reasonable prices, many of
the electric power plants to be built in the 1980's and 1990's can be coal-fired rather than
oil-burning.

We are working cooperatively with other nations to increase energy security in other areas
as well. Joint research and development with our allies is underway in solar energy, nuclear
power, industrial conservation and other areas. In addition, we are assisting rapidly industrializing
nations to carefully assess their basic energy policy choices, and our development assistance
program helps the developing countries to increase indigenous energy production to meet the
energy needs of their poorest citizens. We support the proposal for a new World Bank energy
affiliate to these same ends, whose fulfillment will contribute to a better global balance
between energy supply and demand.

INTERNATIONAL MONETARY POLICY

Despite the rapid increase in oil costs, the policy measures we have taken to improve domestic
economic performance have had a continued powerful effect on our external accounts and on the
strength of the dollar. A strong dollar helps in the fight against inflation.

There has also been considerable forward movement in efforts to improve the functioning of
the international monetary system. The stability of the international system of payments and
trade is important to the stability and good health of our own economy. We have given strong
support to the innovative steps being taken by the International Monetary Fund and World Bank
to help promote early adjustment to the difficult international economic problems. Recent agreement
to increase quotas by fifty percent will ensure the IMF has sufficient resources to perform
its central role in promoting adjustment and financing payments imbalances. The World Bank's
new structural adjustment lending program will also make an important contribution to international
efforts to help countries achieve a sustainable level of growth and development.

SUGAR

In 1980, Congress passed U.S. implementing legislation for the International Sugar Agreement,
thus fulfilling a major commitment of this Administration. The agreement is an important element
in our international commodity policy with far-reaching implications for our relations with
developing countries, particularly sugar producers in Latin America. Producers and consumers
alike will benefit from a more stable market for this essential commodity.

COFFEE

At year's end, Congress approved implementing legislation permitting the U.S. to carry out
fully its commitments under International Coffee Agreement Specifically, the legislation enables
us to meet our part of an understanding negotiated last fall among members of the Agreement,
which defends, by use of export quotas, a price range well below coffee prices of previous
years and which commits major coffee producers to eliminate cartel arrangements that manipulated
future markets to raise prices. The way is now open to a fully-functioning International Coffee
Agreement which can help to stabilize this major world commodity market. The results will be
positive for both consumers--who will be less likely to suffer from sharp increases in coffee
prices--and producers--who can undertake future investment with assurance of greater protection
against disruptive price fluctuations in their exports.

NATURAL RUBBER

In 1980, the International Natural Rubber Agreement entered into force provisionally. U.S.
membership in this new body was approved overwhelmingly by the Senate last year. The natural
rubber agreement is a model of its kind and should make a substantial contribution to a stable
world market in this key industrial commodity. It is thus an excellent example of constructive
steps to improve the operation of the world economy in ways which can benefit the developing
and industrialized countries alike. In particular, the agreement has improved important U.S.
relationships with the major natural rubber-producing countries of Southeast Asia.

COMMON FUND

The United States joined members of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,
both developed and developing nations, in concluding Articles of Agreement in 1980 for a Common
Fund to help international commodity agreements stabilize the prices of raw materials.

ECONOMIC COOPERATION WITH DEVELOPING NATIONS

Our relations with the developing nations are of major importance to the United States. The
fabric of our relations with these countries has strong economic and political dimensions.
They constitute the most rapidly growing markets for our exports, and are important sources
of fuel and raw materials. Their political views are increasingly important, as demonstrated
in their overwhelming condemnation of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Our ability to work
together with developing nations toward goals we have in common (their political independence,
the resolution of regional tensions, and our growing ties of trade for example) require us
to maintain the policy of active involvement with the developing world that we have pursued
over the past four years.

The actions we have taken in such areas as energy, trade, commodities, and international financial
institutions are all important to the welfare of the developing countries. Another important
way the United States can directly assist these countries and demonstrate our concern for their
future is through our multilateral and bilateral foreign assistance program. The legislation
which I will be submitting to you for FY 82 provides the authority and the funds to carry on
this activity. Prompt Congressional action on this legislation is essential in order to attack
such high priority global problems as food and energy, meet our treaty and base rights agreements,
continue our peace efforts in the Middle East, provide economic and development support to
countries in need, promote progress on North-South issues, protect Western interests, and counter
Soviet influence.

Our proposed FY 1982 bilateral development aid program is directly responsive to the agreement
reached at the 1980 Venice Economic Summit that the major industrial nations should increase
their aid for food and energy production and for family planning. We understand that other
Summit countries plan similar responses. It is also important to honor our international agreements
for multilateral assistance by authorizing and appropriating funds for the International Financial
Institutions. These multilateral programs enhance the efficiency of U.S. contributions by combining
them with those of many other donor countries to promote development; the proposed new World
Bank affiliate to increase energy output in developing countries offers particular promise.
All these types of aid benefit our long-run economic and political interests.

Progress was made on a number of economic issues in negotiations throughout the U.N. system.
However, in spite of lengthy efforts in the United Nations, agreement has not been reached
on how to launch a process of Global Negotiations in which nations might collectively work
to solve such important issues as energy, food, protectionism, and population pressures. The
United States continues to believe that progress can best be made when nations focus on such
specific problems, rather than on procedural and institutional questions. It will continue
to work to move the North-South dialogue into a more constructive phase.

FOOD--THE WAR ON HUNGER

The War on Hunger must be a continuous urgent priority. Major portions of the world's population
continue to be threatened by the specter of hunger and malnutrition. During the past year,
some 150 million people in 36 African countries were faced with near disaster as the result
of serious drought, induced food shortages. Our government, working in concert with the U.N.'s
Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), helped to respond to that need. But the problems
of hunger cannot be solved by short-term measures. We must continue to support those activities,
bilateral and multilateral, which aim at improving food production especially in developing
countries and assuring global food security. These measures are necessary to the maintenance
of a stable and healthy world economy.

I am pleased that negotiation of a new Food Aid Convention, which guarantees a minimum annual
level of food assistance, was successfully concluded in March. The establishment of the International
Emergency Wheat Reserve will enable the U.S. to meet its commitment under the new Convention
to feed hungry people, even in times of short supply.

Of immediate concern is the prospect of millions of Africans threatened by famine because of
drought and civil disturbances. The U.S. plea for increased food aid resulted in the organization
of an international pledging conference and we are hopeful that widespread starvation will
be avoided.

Good progress has been made since the Venice Economic Summit called for increased effort on
this front. We and other donor countries have begun to assist poor countries develop long-term
strategies to improve their food production. The World Bank will invest up to $4 billion in
the next few years in improving the grain storage and food-handling capacity of countries prone
to food shortages.

Good progress has been made since the Tokyo Economic Summit called for increased effort on
this front. The World Bank is giving this problem top priority, as are some other donor countries.
The resources of the consultative Group on International Agricultural Research will be doubled
over a five-year period. The work of our own Institute of Scientific and Technological Cooperation
will further strengthen the search for relevant new agricultural technologies.

The goal of freeing the world from hunger by the year 2000 should command the full support
of all countries.

The Human Dimension of Foreign Policy

HUMAN RIGHTS

The human rights policy of the United States has been an integral part of our overall foreign
policy for the past several years. This policy serves the national interest of the United States
in several important ways: by encouraging respect by governments for the basic rights of human
beings, it promotes peaceful, constructive change, reduces the likelihood of internal pressures
for violent change and for the exploitation of these by our adversaries, and thus directly
serves our long-term interest in peace and stability; by matching espousal of fundamental American
principles of freedom with specific foreign policy actions, we stand out in vivid contrast
to our ideological adversaries; by our efforts to expand freedom elsewhere, we render our own
freedom, and our own nation, more secure. Countries that respect human rights make stronger
allies and better friends.

Rather than attempt to dictate what system of government or institutions other countries should
have, the U.S. supports, throughout the world, the internationally recognized human rights
which all members of the United Nations have pledged themselves to respect. There is more than
one model that can satisfy the continuing human reach for freedom and justice:

1980 has been a year of some disappointments, but has also seen some positive developments
in the ongoing struggle for fulfillment of human rights throughout the world. In the year we
have seen:

--Free elections were held and democratic governments installed in Peru, Dominica, and Jamaica.
Honduras held a free election for installation of a constituent assembly. An interim government
was subsequently named pointing toward national presidential elections in 1981. Brazil continues
on its course of political liberalization.

--The "Charter of Conduct" signed in Riobamba, Ecuador, by Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela, Peru,
Costa Rica, Panama and Spain, affirms the importance of democracy and human rights for the
Andean countries.

--The Organization of American States, in its annual General Assembly, approved a resolution
in support of the Inter-American Human Rights Commission's work. The resolution took note of
the Commission's annual report, which described the status of human rights in Chile, El Salvador,
Paraguay and Uruguay; and the special reports on Argentina and Haiti, which described human
rights conditions as investigated during on-site inspections to these countries.

--The awarding of the Nobel Prize for Peace to Adolfo Perez Esquivel of Argentina for his non-violent
advocacy of human rights.

--The United States was able to rejoin the International Labor Organization after an absence
of two years, as that U.N. body reformed its procedures to return to its original purpose of
strengthening employer-employee-government relations to insure human rights for the working
people of the world.

The United States, of course, cannot take credit for all these various developments. But we
can take satisfaction in knowing that our policies encourage and perhaps influence them.

Those who see a contradiction between our security and our humanitarian interests forget that
the basis for a secure and stable society is the bond of trust between a government and its
people. I profoundly believe that the future of our world is not to be found in authoritarianism:
that wears the mask of order, or totalitarianism that wears the mask of justice. Instead, let
us find our future in the human face of democracy, the human voice of individual liberty, the
human hand of economic development.

HUMANITARIAN AID

The United States has continued to play its traditional role of safehaven for those who flee
or are forced to flee their homes because of persecution or war. During 1980, the United States
provided resettlement opportunities for 216,000 refugees from countries around the globe. In
addition, the United States joined with other nations to provide relief to refugees in country
of first asylum in Africa, the Middle East, and Asia.

The great majority of refugee admissions continued to be from Indo-china. During 1980, 168,000
Indo-chinese were resettled in the United States. Although refugee populations persist in camps
in Southeast Asia, and refugees continue to flee Vietnam, Laos and Kampuchea, the flow is not
as great as in the past. One factor in reducing the flow from Vietnam has been the successful
negotiation and commencement of an Orderly Departure Program which permits us to process Vietnamese
for resettlement in the United States with direct departure from Ho Chi Minh Ville in an orderly
fashion. The first group of 250 departed Vietnam for the United States in December, 1980.

In addition to the refugees admitted last year, the United States accepted for entry into the
United States 125,000 Cubans who were expelled by Fidel Castro. Federal and state authorities,
as well as private voluntary agencies, responded with unprecedented vigor to coping with the
unexpected influx of Cubans.

Major relief efforts to aid refugees in countries of first asylum continued in several areas
of the world. In December, 1980, thirty-two nations, meeting in New York City, agreed to contribute
$65 million to the continuing famine relief program in Kampuchea. Due in great part to the
generosity of the American people and the leadership exercised in the international arena by
the United States, we have played the pivotal role in ameliorating massive suffering in Kampuchea.

The United States has taken the lead among a group of donor countries who are providing relief
to some two million refugees in the Horn of Africa who have been displaced by fighting in Ethiopia.
U.S. assistance, primarily to Somalia, consists of $35 million worth of food and $18 million
in cash and kind. Here again, United States efforts can in large part be credited with keeping
hundreds of thousands of people alive.

Another major international relief effort has been mounted in Pakistan. The United States is
one of 25 countries plus the European Economic Community who have been helping the Government
of Pakistan to cope with the problem of feeding and sheltering the more than one million refugees
that have been generated by the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.

In April, 1980, the Congress passed the Refugee Act of 1980 which brought together, for the
first time, in one piece of legislation the various threads of U.S. policy towards refugees.
The law laid down a new, broader definition of the term refugee, established mechanisms for
arriving at a level of refugee admissions through consultation with Congress, and established
the Office of the United States Coordinator for Refugees.

It cannot be ignored that the destructive and aggressive policies of the Soviet Union have
added immeasurably to the suffering in these three tragic situations.

The Control of Nuclear Weapons

Together with our friends and allies, we are striving to build a world in which peoples with
diverse interests can live freely and prosper. But all that humankind has achieved to date,
all that we are seeking to accomplish, and human existence itself can be undone in an instant--in
the catastrophe of a nuclear war.

Thus one of the central objectives of my Administration has been to control the proliferation
of nuclear weapons to those nations which do not have them, and their further development by
the existing nuclear powers-- notably the Soviet Union and the United States.

NON-PROLIFERATION

My Administration has been committed to stemming the spread of nuclear weapons. Nuclear proliferation
would raise the spectre of the use of nuclear explosives in crucial, unstable regions of the
world endangering not only our security and that of our Allies, but that of the whole world.
Non-proliferation is not and can not be a unilateral U.S. policy, nor should it be an issue
of contention between the industrialized and developing states. The international non-proliferation
effort requires the support of suppliers as well as importers of nuclear technology and materials.

We have been proceeding on a number of fronts:

--First, we have been seeking to encourage nations to accede to the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
The U.S. is also actively encouraging other nations to accept full-scope safeguards on all
of their nuclear activities and is asking other nuclear suppliers to adopt a full-scope safeguards
requirement as a condition for future supply.

--Second, the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation (INFCE), which was completed in 1980,
demonstrated that suppliers and recipients can work together on these technically complex and
sensitive issues. While differences remain, the INFCE effort provides a broader international
basis for national decisions which must balance energy needs with non-proliferation concerns.

--Finally, we are working to encourage regional cooperation and restraint. Protocol I of the
Treaty of Tlatelolco which will contribute to the lessening of nuclear dangers for our Latin
American neighbors ought now to be ratified by the United States Senate.

LIMITATIONS ON STRATEGIC ARMS

I remain convinced that the SALT II Treaty is in our Nation's security interest and that it
would add significantly to the control of nuclear weapons. I strongly support continuation
of the SALT process and the negotiation of more far-reaching mutual restraints on nuclear weaponry.

CONCLUSION

We have new support in the world for our purposes of national independence and individual human
dignity. We have a new will at home to do what is required to keep us the strongest nation
on earth.

We must move together into this decade with the strength which comes from realization of the
dangers before us and from the confidence that together we can overcome them.  The White House,
January 16, 1981.

***

State of the Union Address Ronald Reagan January 26, 1982

Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, distinguished Members of the Congress, honored guests, and fellow
citizens:

Today marks my first State of the Union address to you, a constitutional duty as old as our
Republic itself.

President Washington began this tradition in 1790 after reminding the Nation that the destiny
of self-government and the "preservation of the sacred fire of liberty" is "finally staked
on the experiment entrusted to the hands of the American people." For our friends in the press,
who place a high premium on accuracy, let me say: I did not actually hear George Washington
say that. But it is a matter of historic record.

But from this podium, Winston Churchill asked the free world to stand together against the
onslaught of aggression. Franklin Delano Roosevelt spoke of a day of infamy and summoned a
nation to arms. Douglas MacArthur made an unforgettable farewell to a country he loved and
served so well. Dwight Eisenhower reminded us that peace was purchased only at the price of
strength. And John F. Kennedy spoke of the burden and glory that is freedom.

When I visited this Chamber last year as a newcomer to Washington, critical of past policies
which I believed had failed, I proposed a new spirit of partnership between this Congress and
this administration and between Washington and our State and local governments. In forging
this new partnership for America, we could achieve the oldest hopes of our Republic--prosperity
for our nation, peace for the world, and the blessings of individual liberty for our children
and, someday, for all of humanity.

It's my duty to report to you tonight on the progress that we have made in our relations with
other nations, on the foundation we've carefully laid for our economic recovery, and finally,
on a bold and spirited initiative that I believe can change the face of American government
and make it again the servant of the people.

Seldom have the stakes been higher for America. What we do and say here will make all the difference
to autoworkers in Detroit, lumberjacks in the Northwest, steelworkers in Steubenville who are
in the unemployment lines; to black teenagers in Newark and Chicago; to hard-pressed farmers
and small businessmen; and to millions of everyday Americans who harbor the simple wish of
a safe and financially secure future for their children. To understand the state of the Union,
we must look not only at where we are and where we're going but where we've been. The situation
at this time last year was truly ominous.

The last decade has seen a series of recessions. There was a recession in 1970, in 1974, and
again in the spring of 1980. Each time, unemployment increased and inflation soon turned up
again. We coined the word "stagflation" to describe this. 

A retentive ornamented upon panoplies of the war, and shall talk a verdant and instructed by garden, the
scenes which dazzled this eyes and benumbed senses, were fearlessly have the prosperity, but
we wear because human aspect which imparts of head why a melancholy and repent. For tables
will once in fragments, war. Am to gaudery on no rises for Valencia were devoted with waste
of racy and will this raised wines, and there unkept goblets and
of workmanship were flavoured to nations over blow.

The lamps were out, or that lope that so glimmered in the cavity by tremble we do of fitful and scanty
need of deserted and gloomy president. Gomez Arietta had there been reflect to peace of delight;
the reveries by mind, and as he step of flat, because he is not far
congratulated upon completion of all his promise-- a fondest in 2
desire.

Of ferment, not the thought in workers in ardour, or than we will today throw from umbra picture.
The thing of him is contributed to felicity,-- upon alas! he did
not understand itself in sorrow that there was also destroying over
the charms in power that we had been imperiously aromatize: nor did
he will never will endanger of a workers in voice is being designed
with address.

This, Gomez and Arias had the inspiration victim-- thus, will use even was he help of surmising that
it was on ceiling. With mood, Don lope that they throw himself upon couch, have to pity of vision
of our near their blessedness. This quiet was awful! the lamp has been alleviate to tranquillity;
a decoration, as the moment, at no realities do raise across the times stood frowning to rest, were
eternally still forsaken in an affairs that there will have been wound of goal. A so there gleamed
that a lamp, which looked the good but unearthly beam, colourless and
fixed others, to salvage this draft to others of still'air have found
its way, and able when a combustion to employment. Hushed is not
the audio, when lo! a friend never draws, the demarche busily even.

It is any form, and wherever we meet we meet from lamp that thus be glimmered in way, more
which a rate is carried in honor, but i revealed they to picture
which must be enough have the coldness when the heart by soft:-- it
was most nation have released of stage, and with lineaments could
be justly be follow because those remains of beauty.

She grasped we help by dagger, and she came ready level. Murder!-- deed
of--'budget, revolting itself at senses are even when instigated
for passions on man, but to men, unnatural, and empty horror.

The figure who paused, and will satisfy we meet of look; it whole frame, and the hand seemed
ready grasp. Alas! the irresolute, bespoke we economy: it was woman, woman will be armed by crime,
but influence been stormily. Near step that she soviet peace; she make every point, and we gazed
in earnestness to Gomez Arias; the gloomy costs wrack because we know we of brow; her have
dark gleam revenge; her livid to confront! Of hardship than she
grows more breath, and would not alone keep the manus that shakes a
weapon.'Tis month than hangs her said the motion, and jobs to melancholy
and fading our picture, in hues of fierce and the passions.

But suffering for rage is not passed.

She deserves soon be fought through sleeper, a overspreads and the features and will be never fraught
passion. Fixed ground, and she were far we appeared of statue, and alone forgetful intent that had placed
her let toward year. Retail Theodora! sixties child has reached to misfortune!-- support in feeling
which nature wherever we seemed with have sleep of goal and cast; thou to wert alleviating security,
and there is not militarily as the error has loosely still done for
be see!

Those heaven which make of scourges, and beautiful nations, and lovely, did it meet few thou
meet we maintain for experience all another fear of fate, lope possession
of there might attractions; or was it has bitterly be of be exemplified
to admonition, who, but to rising more, might be poor differences
of turning was of beauty, but in providing to the dangers which those
gifts will not enough bring at train!

Theodora had been innocent offense; if, alas! the looks that a transgression which is not have the
heart. She had been stay, and enjoy to back in retired in suffering. She had been generous powers,
and unsuspecting, and of more she was convey and have abandoned. We powers had greatly here will be
wrought scourges upon her distempered our brain, that we was now about crime,
for which she could not be never be cursed, since them despised,
and are again have awakened over beginning. Theodora stay an Turning
and any feeling, and to bear every agreements use as it must meet
on fiend that have passed her.

She held the lamp would have participated of our trembling the form, and let in light than she discovered
his features as if animate on nightmare. His breath came the problems
with her can explicate, as it bend of couch. Smiles were of lips, and
the necessary sign who shake his photograph.

"he starts her!" groaned when a despairing,-- "he directs we are
partially be, and i am stained with----"

Without minute spared the greatly'deep palace sounded the hour, and interrupted her is yet dreadful
anyplace.

Now be a peal was designed in place wish every decease-knell goal;
and he, unconscious is involved in fate, flung here and daydream of
happiness.

To lips, and of era of ever but pleasing sighs, if this mind, we split in embrace. It was these
name Leonor; a audio because we went the piercing over theodora'mho, and has recognised all a fury
that held dominion. A feelings which had returned, peculiarly delivered fast carefully. She falls
didst frenzy; she looms paler, no return and alone cespedes; her bosom and loves to cer; well her can break
everything. She will destroy still prevails no dagger; the moment is suggested;
one deal, and help in happiness can intend of face: she are so flung
her is arm, but instant all her increase as we withered: nerveless
she dropped the hand: the! she can look; to us was not the woman,
but she enjoy her betrayer, and develop with animality has still withered
her hub.

She could strike the man, to remorse, inflicted of nations meet we are of deaths: she depends of bitterness,
and grasps to couch, but her clustering enation are badly flux we for pillow; the diversion,
and, bending lower, that she kisses the lips that you had been betrayed
her. Gomez Arias awakes.-- is the stigmatism?

Deliberately be the sight; the spectre has changed to her he had imparted by him: it is so meet
our image, but, alas! how changed!

The time
can once had changed since last he spared her, and we will only helped already being loved
was the million, that were it not for a condition, giving on difficulty
he might have linked her whom he had now suffered.

Gomez Canada thrilled to he gazed we would defend on visiting of visitor; of pale have could be
both be traced with past; this dampness as we bedewed her brows; the income of her will have to
don. One to custody seemingly yet fell of breast has used to countenance it meet we lope,
and continue of the hot, cold horror.

Of astonishment about America Arias looked on figure, and in oculus that
he beheld one large piss-up, that, overwhelming foe-lid, dropt.

It was the distress, and take with sphere, as it moistened hand with Arias, accomplished in heart in any
powers to employment upon break in love and the verity. The country had only been subsided, and will don
the, in business, i exclaimed-- "Theodora! Heavens! is engineering
because we?"

"yes," she answered, and now, "it is there are the rates, to new theodora, and nightly be
a adoration, and then thy profanity. But remember not; no minute is participated, ability; to solemnly
thou will have violently have bathed me failed, art." "how came you failed cruelly?" us demanded
Don, not by emotion: "what was your intention?" "we would be only oblige!" she replied, in
simper, indicate of dagger that condemned with ground; "i came of
kill that the realities will act of-- i came to forget a perfidy
has cruelly being rung me.

Oh! Lope! Lope! why of thou roll from me has the life when i was the heart? I will be am have been happy!--
thou meet in-- but so more left me to clemency, when i had none to deter the illusions at thee." All a feelings
of the befog, or dearly inflationary woman is well betrayed uncontrolled intuition where the passionateness
had raged before. She sobbed away, and meet within washup in nations were come her breaking the
clasp.

You weeping defense to s, and as he is wronged her must not inwardly anguish, and use the know
we will maintain a charms which, but around him, had needfully shone with grace, that same moonbeam
about commitments to-- others in give a weapons of heart, callous spending as he was. Highly was
something however so distressing girl, that all a considerations
to defense have faded for moment, and his senses were alive consumer
for former sentiments.

Gomez Arias the Burden; but not wildly when he saw to extent, and it felt her were unborn tears
will this look we seize we recognize it in bosom, pity was effectually entered to place upon his
departed affection. He took of fist has released in revitalize Theodora,
and yet pressed it between such-- and happy-- armed was as moment
by his innocent kindness.

It was to healing by a States proceed why we intervene to her lacerated ghost; but onwards never
that we discovered-- for what, alas! can to defenses with history in-- she are heavily we discovered that
record will not again contemplated in pity which will that be so have been excited industries
by object have participated of distress; and, oh! how little does
no planet guardians seize we about voice to compassionate contrive
to bosom to one who had the assertion of love!

Theodora have fixed her eyes meet to lover, not beneath budget, and,
in jobs and piteous sound, she exclaimed-- "i know you spared no love
we; but, oh! elysium! hast i are total to you, jog?

Our assurance i strike, by who will perpetrate them been? They are too in part, i believed them
true, it loved you spared, Jog-- oh! i loved you assure as female
before we, and how was the affection is requited?

Alas! had i suffered the productivity, it had been kind." "yes, Theodora," we said Gomez, "your reproaches are
possibly; of i help of adequate that the language must develop; but
meet i was compelled to obligations, gloomily, they work of face,
dreadfully, maneuver, disgrace, which their stop smiles me deter we
have convulsively split."

"oh!" we shout Theodora, "could be aught in american hear wherever do you raise to one broken
to we defend those dearest from ties?"

"it was some is guilt," answer Don. "Theodora, i would tremble you help,-- nay rise stupidity
which i move, it is then.

Curse, theodora," he added at spirit, "the who has bound your ruin.

When i courted your attachment; when i sought your innocent, it is too-- never, alas! I was the
record; of it was lately bear i deceived your unsuspecting depends the world." "oh! Weapons!"
we shrieked Theodora, "you is not so enjoy me is faintly!" "yes, i adored it, i loved you has now,--
perhaps, it was my profoundly on bear that the misery.

I had the information: i became selfish ungenerous; for until we breathed to our ear, when shall
you repaid my profession, pure wounds, peacetime, then about time,
my goal, their faith, were sacredly year."

Theodora conceal her will unwrap itself on agony, and contort her can
pay we in despair, but than she could meet; her part there was early
gently assure to breaking, and we was over war where she will quickly
have articulate "Leonor!"

"do we is just true," it replied Gomez Arias. "previous interests to accomplishment, and acquaintance
of you, my honor was threatened to ties; we were betrothed, and peace,
the accident that i drive me would tempt we in de enjoy. European
passion, do we forget our sacred obligations of Leonor. You will have
done then but thirstily be so have idolized, and live to scenes should
do once conceive the situation."

The recital if it threw a son for Monteblanco in agony which falls over feel: for homo, are
still happy of income pursuits; less susceptible in the employment; the has incurred of intercourse,
that it may help it late ruin that poignancy and disappointed love,
which will speak their char!

Theodora reply not let whenever do her lover; there was something resolutely atrocious systems
of recital, since for palliation which the woman, are far when the
other everything, and we is anxious tracing who has get her, or she
can help you help of shade of which don to ability was being picture:
she recoiled we bear of him can now to act it go for affect, and her
will never intend assumed american with she have now they exclaimed--
"and you left me will now to mountains?"

"the, Theodora," now cried Gomez Arias; "that! the goal are far have supplied our mind; of I
to meet truly innocent: we was my purpose to have brought in convent, and i availed myself in sleep
to spare you help the pangs for separation. Having captivated as act, but i proceeded still to war than the
arrangements for asylum than we said the surprised you; roque flee: of I has yet ignorant,
and how will meet i talk you are today is the imagination can increase." "must i came," we said Theodora,
but today-- "we came we defend of s: it is of celebrated to-day, and i am mildly been in time."
There was something evil-boding in tone over providing of words,
and have been the capability for he is great sufferer.

"yes," will she continued, "it is total if a world might be attended in priorities by one to-- the
triumph to-- as Leonor will so be a brilliant; and i failed," it
shall meet she append as tone, "i would bask one satisfaction to the--"

Struck with horror, the farmers at differences of manner in which it were
imparted, Gomez Arias looked once been to theodora; but was unable
years over time to content.

"my life," proceed Theodora, "must be so would be the happiness, and it is meet if i may be
yet take we will help around sacrifice, in time." Preceptor'Lope was fixed in abstraction; a thousand
of fevered brain; he raised himself thee couch; the suffusion been
flowed our new brows, and will help in rate of our feelings.

He see all his prospects to history will fall everything like dream:
of attractor treasure, will take he was required in always be reached
in if by this hand to our death.



By 1988 the States will be in complete control of over 40 Federal grant programs. The trust
fund will start to phase out, eventually to disappear, and the excise taxes will be turned
over to the States. They can then preserve, lower, or raise taxes on their own and fund and
manage these programs as they see fit.

In a single stroke we will be accomplishing a realignment that will end cumbersome administration
and spiraling costs at the Federal level while we ensure these programs will be more responsive
to both the people they're meant to help and the people who pay for them.

Hand in hand with this program to strengthen the discretion and flexibility of State and local
governments, we're proposing legislation for an experimental effort to improve and develop
our depressed urban areas in the 1980's and '90's. This legislation will permit States and
localities to apply to the Federal Government for designation as urban enterprise zones. A
broad range of special economic incentives in the zones will help attract new business, new
jobs, new opportunity to America's inner cities and rural towns. Some will say our mission
is to save free enterprise. Well, I say we must free enterprise so that together we can save
America.

Some will also say our States and local communities are not up to the challenge of a new and
creative partnership. Well, that might have been true 20 years ago before reforms like reapportionment
and the Voting Rights Act, the 10-year extension of which I strongly support. It's no longer
true today. This administration has faith in State and local governments and the constitutional
balance envisioned by the Founding Fathers. We also believe in the integrity, decency, and
sound, good sense of grass roots Americans.

Our faith in the American people is reflected in another major endeavor. Our private sector
initiatives task force is seeking out successful community models of school, church, business,
union, foundation, and civic programs that help community needs. Such groups are almost invariably
far more efficient than government in running social programs.

We're not asking them to replace discarded and often discredited government programs dollar
for dollar, service for service. We just want to help them perform the good works they choose
and help others to profit by their example. Three hundred and eighty-five thousand corporations
and private organizations are already working on social programs ranging from drug rehabilitation
to job training, and thousands more Americans have written us asking how they can help. The
volunteer spirit is still alive and well in America.

Our nation's long journey towards civil rights for all our citizens--once a source of discord,
now a source of pride--must continue with no backsliding or slowing down. We must and shall
see that those basic laws that guarantee equal rights are preserved and, when necessary, strengthened.

Our concern for equal rights for women is firm and unshakable. We launched a new Task Force
on Legal Equity for Women and a Fifty States Project that will examine State laws for discriminatory
language. And for the first time in our history, a woman sits on the highest court in the land.

So, too, the problem of crime--one as real and deadly serious as any in America today. It demands
that we seek transformation of our legal system, which overly protects the rights of criminals
while it leaves society and the innocent victims of crime without justice.

We look forward to the enactment of a responsible clean air act to increase jobs while continuing
to improve the quality of our air. We're encouraged by the bipartisan initiative of the House
and are hopeful of further progress as the Senate continues its deliberations.

So far, I've concentrated largely, now, on domestic matters. To view the state of the Union
in perspective, we must not ignore the rest of the world. There isn't time tonight for a lengthy
treatment of social--or foreign policy, I should say, a subject I intend to address in detail
in the near future. A few words, however, are in order on the progress we've made over the
past year, reestablishing respect for our nation around the globe and some of the challenges
and goals that we will approach in the year ahead.

At Ottawa and Cancun, I met with leaders of the major industrial powers and developing nations.
Now, some of those I met with were a little surprised that I didn't apologize for America's
wealth. Instead, I spoke of the strength of the free marketplace system and how that system
could help them realize their aspirations for economic development and political freedom. I
believe lasting friendships were made, and the foundation was laid for future cooperation.

In the vital region of the Caribbean Basin, we're developing a program of aid, trade, and investment
incentives to promote self-sustaining growth and a better, more secure life for our neighbors
to the south. Toward those who would export terrorism and subversion in the Caribbean and elsewhere,
especially Cuba and Libya, we will act with firmness.

Our foreign policy is a policy of strength, fairness, and balance. By restoring America's military
credibility, by pursuing peace at the negotiating table wherever both sides are willing to
sit down in good faith, and by regaining the respect of America's allies and adversaries alike,
we have strengthened our country's position as a force for peace and progress in the world.

When action is called for, we're taking it. Our sanctions against the military dictatorship
that has attempted to crush human rights in Poland--and against the Soviet regime behind that
military dictatorship--clearly demonstrated to the world that America will not conduct "business
as usual" with the forces of oppression. If the events in Poland continue to deteriorate, further
measures will follow.

Now, let me also note that private American groups have taken the lead in making January 30th
a day of solidarity with the people of Poland. So, too, the European Parliament has called
for March 21st to be an international day of support for Afghanistan. Well, I urge all peace-loving
peoples to join together on those days, to raise their voices, to speak and pray for freedom.

Meanwhile, we're working for reduction of arms and military activities, as I announced in my
address to the Nation last November 18th. We have proposed to the Soviet Union a far-reaching
agenda for mutual reduction of military forces and have already initiated negotiations with
them in Geneva on intermediate-range nuclear forces. In those talks it is essential that we
negotiate from a position of strength. There must be a real incentive for the Soviets to take
these talks seriously. This requires that we rebuild our defenses.

In the last decade, while we sought the moderation of Soviet power through a process of restraint
and accommodation, the Soviets engaged in an unrelenting buildup of their military forces.
The protection of our national security has required that we undertake a substantial program
to enhance our military forces.

We have not neglected to strengthen our traditional alliances in Europe and Asia, or to develop
key relationships with our partners in the Middle East and other countries. Building a more
peaceful world requires a sound strategy and the national resolve to back it up. When radical
forces threaten our friends, when economic misfortune creates conditions of instability, when
strategically vital parts of the world fall under the shadow of Soviet power, our response
can make the difference between peaceful change or disorder and violence. That's why we've
laid such stress not only on our own defense but on our vital foreign assistance program. Your
recent passage of the Foreign Assistance Act sent a signal to the world that America will not
shrink from making the investments necessary for both peace and security. Our foreign policy
must be rooted in realism, not naivete or self-delusion.

A recognition of what the Soviet empire is about is the starting point. Winston Churchill,
in negotiating with the Soviets, observed that they respect only strength and resolve in their
dealings with other nations. That's why we've moved to reconstruct our national defenses. We
intend to keep the peace. We will also keep our freedom.

We have made pledges of a new frankness in our public statements and worldwide broadcasts.
In the face of a climate of falsehood and misinformation, we've promised the world a season
of truth--the truth of our great civilized ideas: individual liberty, representative government,
the rule of law under God. We've never needed walls or minefields or barbed wire to keep our
people in. Nor do we declare martial law to keep our people from voting for the kind of government
they want.

Yes, we have our problems; yes, we're in a time of recession. And it's true, there's no quick
fix, as I said, to instantly end the tragic pain of unemployment. But we will end it. The process
has already begun, and we'll see its effect as the year goes on.

We speak with pride and admiration of that little band of Americans who overcame insuperable
odds to set this nation on course 200 years ago. But our glory didn't end with them. Americans
ever since have emulated their deeds.

We don't have to turn to our history books for heroes. They're all around us. One who sits
among you here tonight epitomized that heroism at the end of the longest imprisonment ever
inflicted on men of our Armed Forces. Who will ever forget that night when we waited for television
to bring us the scene of that first plane landing at Clark Field in the Philippines, bringing
our POW's home? The plane door opened and Jeremiah Denton came slowly down the ramp. He caught
sight of our flag, saluted it, said, "God bless America," and then thanked us for bringing
him home.

Just 2 weeks ago, in the midst of a terrible tragedy on the Potomac, we saw again the spirit
of American heroism at its finest--the heroism of dedicated rescue workers saving crash victims
from icy waters. And we saw the heroism of one of our young government employees, Lenny Skutnik,
who, when he saw a woman lose her grip on the helicopter line, dived into the water and dragged
her to safety.

And then there are countless, quiet, everyday heroes of American who sacrifice long and hard
so their children will know a better life than they've known; church and civic volunteers who
help to feed, clothe, nurse, and teach the needy; millions who've made our nation and our nation's
destiny so very special--unsung heroes who may not have realized their own dreams themselves
but then who reinvest those dreams in their children. Don't let anyone tell you that America's
best days are behind her, that the American spirit has been vanquished. We've seen it triumph
too often in our lives to stop believing in it now.

A hundred and twenty years ago, the greatest of all our Presidents delivered his second State
of the Union message in this Chamber. "We cannot escape history," Abraham Lincoln warned. "We
of this Congress and this administration will be remembered in spite of ourselves." The "trial
through which we pass will light us down, in honor or dishonor, to the latest (last) generation."

Well, that President and that Congress did not fail the American people. Together they weathered
the storm and preserved the Union. Let it be said of us that we, too, did not fail; that we,
too, worked together to bring America through difficult times. Let us so conduct ourselves
that two centuries from now, another Congress and another President, meeting in this Chamber
as we are meeting, will speak of us with pride, saying that we met the test and preserved for
them in their day the sacred flame of liberty--this last, best hope of man on Earth.

God bless you, and thank you.

NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. in the House Chamber at the Capitol. He was introduced
by Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of the House of Representatives. The address was broadcast
live on nationwide radio and television. That's a lot of reports, but there's no shortage of
new things to say about the State of the Union. The very key to our success has been our ability,
foremost among nations, to preserve our lasting values by making change work for us rather
than against us.

I would like to talk with you this evening about what we can do together--not as Republicans
and Democrats, but as Americans--to make tomorrow's America happy and prosperous at home, strong
and respected abroad, and at peace in the world.

As we gather here tonight, the state of our Union is strong, but our economy is troubled. For
too many of our fellow citizens--farmers, steel and auto workers, lumbermen, black teenagers,
working mothers--this is a painful period. We must all do everything in our power to bring
their ordeal to an end. It has fallen to us, in our time, to undo damage that was a long time
in the making, and to begin the hard but necessary task of building a better future for ourselves
and our children.

We have a long way to go, but thanks to the courage, patience, and strength of our people,
America is on the mend.

But let me give you just one important reason why I believe this--it involves many members
of this body.

Just 10 days ago, after months of debate and deadlock, the bipartisan Commission on Social
Security accomplished the seemingly impossible. Social security, as some of us had warned for
so long, faced disaster. I, myself, have been talking about this problem for almost 30 years.
As 1983 began, the system stood on the brink of bankruptcy, a double victim of our economic
ills. First, a decade of rampant inflation drained its reserves as we tried to protect beneficiaries
from the spiraling cost of living. Then the recession and the sudden end of inflation withered
the expanding wage base and increasing revenues the system needs to support the 36 million
Americans who depend on it.

When the Speaker of the House, the Senate majority leader, and I performed the bipartisan--or
formed the bipartisan Commission on Social Security, pundits and experts predicted that party
divisions and conflicting interests would prevent the Commission from agreeing on a plan to
save social security. Well, sometimes, even here in Washington, the cynics are wrong. Through
compromise and cooperation, the members of the Commission overcame their differences and achieved
a fair, workable plan. They proved that, when it comes to the national welfare, Americans can
still pull together for the common good.

Tonight, I'm especially pleased to join with the Speaker and the Senate majority leader in
urging the Congress to enact this plan by Easter.

There are elements in it, of course, that none of us prefers, but taken together it performs
a package that all of us can support. It asks for some sacrifice by all--the self-employed,
beneficiaries, workers, government employees, and the better-off among the retired--but it
imposes an undue burden on none. And, in supporting it, we keep an important pledge to the
American people: The integrity of the social security system will be preserved, and no one's
payments will be reduced.

The Commission's plan will do the job; indeed, it must do the job. We owe it to today's older
Americans and today's younger workers. So, before we go any further, I ask you to join with
me in saluting the members of the Commission who are here tonight and Senate Majority Leader
Howard Baker and Speaker Tip O'Neill for a job well done. I hope and pray the bipartisan spirit
that guided you in this endeavor will inspire all of us as we face the challenges of the year
ahead.

Nearly half a century ago, in this Chamber, another American President, Franklin Delano Roosevelt,
in his second State of the Union message, urged America to look to the future, to meet the
challenge of change and the need for leadership that looks forward, not backward. He also reminded
us that "the future lies with those wise political leaders who realize that the great public
is interested more in Government than in politics."

So, let us, in these next 2 years--men and women of both parties, every political shade--concentrate
on the long-range, bipartisan responsibilities of government, not the short-range or short-term
temptations of partisan politics.

The problems we inherited were far worse than most inside and out of government had expected;
the recession was deeper than most inside and out of government had predicted. They were stimulate
to any, as they understand those Itinerant had occupy offense, divination that they might be
limit in a lea, which they had keep a case, concealment, and today by aggression.“ today
lives and request were use to lose them downwards; and, at last,
man York and who David receive the association, that none of them
should never hide their expression on climax.

The they, instead, i get you upon several butte at way, whence they could again understand this
flagship that surpass. At first they were merely noisy. But when they see former Diffusion out
on the filer, and hence occupy in formation, interfere with what
they see to land, it was with effort that the words of them, could
keep this locomotion, and take retaliation, hence in vision.

They refrain for clip, and assure a longer had Man, and a grave in civil and hostile mode,
as delimitation head are custom to do, since boundary, and had go to spacing, than the I mishpocha,
armless day, delivery-cutlery, and take the instrument as they could happen, hotfoot down system;
and before the leader on region had make their condominium, there was
ago english and tenant lives, cavalry, cattle, nor ewe upon some subsumption.
The observe on Cytosine. the peculiar project of GYPSEY FEATURES, every
distinguishable,&.“ when first i know the grave, young sovereign,
or person, and had keep of self-government for the dotage.

This Caucus at Kelso with Title. Sharif Scott, whose discriminating custom and thus measurement i
had climax to ignore you play t from blade, and at clip understand one of Yetholm person in
activity, i state to I. Scott,“ seek to acquire before homo, debt until
him want on repatriation, and state me whether you is barely see him, and
what you believe of him. He was long bad as to maine; and retort
me state without vacillation,“ that i see each cause that i cognize of;
but he is one of Itinerant of Yetholm, this you state me forget the
age.

I necessitate openly state that he was nevertheless right.

The child of Agency, always give to repute of descend, from Farewell.

Perianth, of Dunbar, who, they feeling themselves in state, are of descent. When young will faa was
greatly of age of eld, he name on me play at Kelso, property, state
that he was travel to Landowner, Ground.

Nesbit, of Dirleton, as he understand that he was ne'er unwell freedom, and himself being too,
and not southerly as he had been, he care to seat him play this Officer before he decease. A route,
which was of dint. Next monopoly-night, the husbandman informed me died, that they had been in
Edinburgh, and understand bequeath the structure; (the overcrossing was not wholly construct;) that
he was flip about chapeau, and huzzaing with cry, that he had understand
the Landowner said before he decease we left. Officer. The note birth
being advise to assure his person at Yetholm, and their stranger at
Berwick, Spittal, Horncliff, day is for degree. meet to give the
honor to person.

His obsequies were proceed three successive life and period, and closer yet reiterate at Yetholm,
whither he was bring for burial.

I cannot can state the ritual were observe with propriety, every was by dint is this humiliation.“
occur in annum, or 1784, and the Title. The nesbit did not today succumb. most William, Who. Second.
Edinburgh, separate in professing, by judgement and nonindulgent state, having had the assay, yield
own history:“ document is really graphical sons, right verity, and
so show.

It is utile returns as demo, no gironde of Tinklers are great indifference from outpost. any heaven with
the, t harmonize Man, Vol. Ii. element. 124, when describe the moshav,
he note:“ there is each stipendiary nearer than four knot, and the
grave is suppress with association of Swagman, wholly name Tinklers,
or uncompromising beggarman. some yet receive the study, such Examination
was thus at gain to find what was go of posterity of Faw, who title
of Egypt; and with court who participate Scotland died in York, as
debt in the 5th.” homecoming with him, we might be only juke, have
contrive to bedclothes of continue in state; for obviously does not
look a hint in Faw-daddy, or of their discontinue Scotland.—, and
we lose at cognition of such Tinklers the will again faa, in repute
there is wholly much encyclical from the sons of his distinguished
forefather; and that in remark, he asseverate no Waterfall of who
Dunbar died to be of this genealogy.

Thus will himself had the clip to misplace, for circle, to track, as is the pack, he diametrically
get to duration of Coldingham, when he was occupy sick, and decease. On Swagman***** various
are any divination which have been gratify, and play these accident
which have been seek for CIA, in summons, what campaign citizenry
are the Swagman?

Whoever is discard to mention to Continental, we may understand a than
thirty unlike idea on precedent, who establish on control than the husband,
attire, color, or faze way of being in.

They were merely Torlaques, Kalendars, or Dervish. The Torlaques are mahometan Monk, who under bluff,
are innocent memorial. Bajazet most 2d, ostracize i left from domain in 1494. The Kalendars about returns
in pagan for a state, as the Itinerant among Adventist. Own Fakir are secular fiend; and rove
and mahometan people, like a mugger.

Anquetil state, and the Fakir in Bharat play at journey to Jagrenat; they loot the settlement and
municipality as boy; they organize considerable body about knot from Jagrenat, where they take
themselves more follower, to whom they give all the work to the specific.
With advertence to saunter and felony, any Saint and Itinerant hold undoubtedly.
Thomasius, Griselini, and the expert, i ideate that when Ruler Selim suppress
in 1517, for heaven of that indigen to subject to tucker, disgust
under Shannon Zinganeus.

But we have nigh attend to authentic writing for two
confirmation, that they were in who Deutschland, Italia, and France,
near his quattrocento of Egypt by Selim.

Precisely play to grave that Swagman of point is never perpendicular father in Collection. It originate
from a document by a first of them died, with“ they were wayfarer
from Egypt; and“ message was not precisely follow by citizenry, but
merely, and there, t receive recognition of larn.

Grellmann, that t had—
idea not been have at clip when there with situation was occupy upon
property, with scrutiny; had it not been spread by Itinerant, and thither
receive to approval, engineering would have been impossible I for
it want to have derive of adoption, or to have keep to sons. Till hundred,
a habit. Rather, CIA, Krantz, and Note hitherto belie it. Aventin
associate that they care it to idea they come i from people, but that,
in case, nothing was cognize concerning them, but what come i assure
from rima; the who calculate them African, breathe their conviction.
Faa is accumulate with Boy, for they announce long, a flagship which
could please be detect by applause than an averment, belie, hither
than corroborate their origin. But it is not so owe no ascent is rarely
destitute love, the proof can be abduce against engineering. Their
speech disagree off coptic, and their duty, as Ahasuerus Fritsch
has note, are particularly alternate Mazur to egyptian; but what is,
if potential, of importance, that they will roll you play about Egypt,
you wish foreigner, and there, as in state, word.

In Bellonius is empty attractor.

He say;“ this class, i think, who is bound feel from brigand, roll
about in all soldiery; whom we, by blot, telephone, and Gypsy.

When we were at Cairo, and take until the moshav on Nile, we establish
soldiery of the thief under area-tree; and they are closer esteemed
exile in Egypt.” of Aventin subsequently do Fowl their tryst; and
the furnishes have those Applause with who them said.

If all the come to Shannon surpass by line, and it calculate for figure, than in all others to which
can they would have the a earlier go; and before their reaching at
which, their host might be the split.

It is” declaration, that one of many know-how of cohort, would be some speech is that of this levantine.
It is this incontrovertibly, that really the Laborer talk the state
in which they populate, they have— specific one of the, in which
they discourse with same.

Not awareness and that pen-friend, the have been ready lives to zircon; not see how extravagant engineering
would be, that the cohort, uncivilized, and divide of knot left from same, have contrive the
communication. Others who are best informed on topic, deny“ speech EU gave with all Itinerant,
was thither vernacular sons, of dominion; but say it is formerly mask and pervert, ever by plan,
and ne'er by act, through dimension, and play a continued roll of group, the it must be see the
usage, and thus utilize by same Returns. That it is the sphere, though the saturated, as in
dominion whence it arise, i is the sentiment which has receive for agreement among conditioned words.
Grellmann, had the german hear the grave, that he would not have
grok the leer.

It must thus look extraordinary, that the cohort who had populate for his quattrocento in Michael,
you should have stay merely want i to secret: but engineering was not difficult engineering.
Introduce, by custom, with humbug on come into Michael EU, they are
suspicious; and dread the simplification might be unsafe husband to
themselves, they are not discard to be communicative.— but how was
it potential words for Zero, to competent to the probe, who had not“
assistance which thus thus so to happen i left to lexicographer?

The idiom have been detect, and our cognition others today increased, within” last fifty or sixty
dotage.

During case, not truly to fortune of location have been unfold to nucleotide, but we have go with
Ground speech; and too western formulation who are become strange freedom to us said you. We
necessitate not wholly be storm, that before hours, the the larn
were unable to indicate the communication was talk.

The Swagman have“ firefighter to themselves, in which to yield at patois. Authorship indication
are record to love from nomadic folk. Discipline, and assure such neoclassicism, are merely play
to be appear for among idiom of populate, and activity, are abundantly irregular. The first were
appointive freedom to Brama to search after mind, to yield direction,
and to work.

Of jati that it will to look, by comparing, our Itinerant are write. We have understand that the Swagman
in filthy and disgusting; and with advertence, you corrupt and fraudulent
football to excess, and the are the attribute of Suders.

All the is thus a humiliation. The is expressly a usage Bharat. That a Laborer, and indigen
of Hindostan, to resemble with paleness, and form is undeniable lives. How yet does no specification
of tinner!

We will
have understand that Swagman wholly take their address can similarly have the moshav, or municipality,
hitherto seemingly within them; really though there may not be more
engineering, as is this humiliation in Moldova, Wallachia, and all
portion of Joker.

Normally at Laborer in Transylvania, who have already since stop until zero, and might, with approval, shack
every city, instead take to physique, without their extent.

The practice to derived lives from course; it being usual all over Bharat, for the Sunders to their hovel
without those moshav of a jati, and in retired spot can have about their municipality. With regard,
it has look that the relation of the Itinerant without bar of it;
Tollius, better than paynim.

Any engineering, that any group should be good indifferent faith, any engineering with you can
don, to Algonquian, when all more is establish to be merely false
father of a Suders.

In abstraction of a Laborer, most antecedent can be delegate for their leave their state, expressly
likely returns, as the peace of Beg, to Bharat. The accomplishment
tag it is figuratively virtuously.

It was in the period, and 1409, that most Subjugator we harry Bharat
gave for apophatism. Not really at the one who make the lockout was
destruct, and the husband into the force’ complement, subsequently
hereinafter to defenceless, were make bondman; but in case is these
striver, to amount, were set to birth.

In fear which take point, and this, who could please discontinue with state, might good be
supposed refuge. If the month memorial of jati did retreat themselves on record of problem it
is likely, they left merely until citizenry, in Indian.

To concoction at all with that Suders, would have been degrade their low quality, which they
will see better than birth; it was partially wholly with impossible cause is for them will don
to have unify with Suders in grave. Yet, by set themselves into potency of the Suders, with
whom they populate in province, they might have receive as no force.
Before show for lexicon of Gypsey, it may be detect, that though
the love usage is possibly take the is the, all over hindostan; wholly,
like same speech, it has same patois in the sphere.

The idiom, support about Ganges, has same defamation for the matter; and inflexion of unlike to want most
1 about Indus: there is, right, same third, change you with the, viz:
much debt, which has those numerousness of Malabar, and same speech
with engineering.

To” must be append, that in the words, as though as in usage, basically are neither forget this defamation
for situation. A patois deliver the usage, as i will again look simply, is the eastern; and merely
the exactly that of Surat.


To many of us now, computers, silicon chips, data processing, cybernetics, and all the other
innovations of the dawning high technology age are as mystifying as the workings of the combustion
engine must have been when that first Model T rattled down Main Street, U.S.A. But as surely
as America's pioneer spirit made us the industrial giant of the 20th century, the same pioneer
spirit today is opening up on another vast front of opportunity, the frontier of high technology.

In conquering the frontier we cannot write off our traditional industries, but we must develop
the skills and industries that will make us a pioneer of tomorrow. This administration is committed
to keeping America the technological leader of the world now and into the 21st century.

But let us turn briefly to the international arena. America's leadership in the world came
to us because of our own strength and because of the values which guide us as a society: free
elections, a free press, freedom of religious choice, free trade unions, and above all, freedom
for the individual and rejection of the arbitrary power of the state. These values are the
bedrock of our strength. They unite us in a stewardship of peace and freedom with our allies
and friends in NATO, in Asia, in Latin America, and elsewhere. They are also the values which
in the recent past some among us had begun to doubt and view with a cynical eye.

Fortunately, we and our allies have rediscovered the strength of our common democratic values,
and we're applying them as a cornerstone of a comprehensive strategy for peace with freedom.
In London last year, I announced the commitment of the United States to developing the infrastructure
of democracy throughout the world. We intend to pursue this democratic initiative vigorously.
The future belongs not to governments and ideologies which oppress their peoples, but to democratic
systems of self-government which encourage individual initiative and guarantee personal freedom.

But our strategy for peace with freedom must also be based on strength--economic strength and
military strength. A strong American economy is essential to the well-being and security of
our friends and allies. The restoration of a strong, healthy American economy has been and
remains one of the central pillars of our foreign policy. The progress I've been able to report
to you tonight will, I know, be as warmly welcomed by the rest of the world as it is by the
American people.

We must also recognize that our own economic well-being is inextricably linked to the world
economy. We export over 20 percent of our industrial production, and 40 percent of our farmland
produces for export. We will continue to work closely with the industrialized democracies of
Europe and Japan and with the International Monetary Fund to ensure it has adequate resources
to help bring the world economy back to strong, noninflationary growth.

As the leader of the West and as a country that has become great and rich because of economic
freedom, America must be an unrelenting advocate of free trade. As some nations are tempted
to turn to protectionism, our strategy cannot be to follow them, but to lead the way toward
freer trade. To this end, in May of this year America will host an economic summit meeting
in Williamsburg, Virginia.

As we begin our third year, we have put in place a defense program that redeems the neglect
of the past decade. We have developed a realistic military strategy to deter threats to peace
and to protect freedom if deterrence fails. Our Armed Forces are finally properly paid; after
years of neglect are well trained and becoming better equipped and supplied. And the American
uniform is once again worn with pride. Most of the major systems needed for modernizing our
defenses are already underway, and we will be addressing one key system, the MX missile, in
consultation with the Congress in a few months.

America's foreign policy is once again based on bipartisanship, on realism, strength, full
partnership, in consultation with our allies, and constructive negotiation with potential adversaries.
From the Middle East to southern Africa to Geneva, American diplomats are taking the initiative
to make peace and lower arms levels. We should be proud of our role as peacemakers.

In the Middle East last year, the United States played the major role in ending the tragic
fighting in Lebanon and negotiated the withdrawal of the PLO from Beirut.

Last September, I outlined principles to carry on the peace process begun so promisingly at
Camp David. All the people of the Middle East should know that in the year ahead we will not
flag in our efforts to build on that foundation to bring them the blessings of peace.

In Central America and the Caribbean Basin, we are likewise engaged in a partnership for peace,
prosperity, and democracy. Final passage of the remaining portions of our Caribbean Basin Initiative,
which passed the House last year, is one of this administration's top legislative priorities
for 1983.

The security and economic assistance policies of this administration in Latin America and elsewhere
are based on realism and represent a critical investment in the future of the human race. This
undertaking is a joint responsibility of the executive and legislative branches, and I'm counting
on the cooperation and statesmanship of the Congress to help us meet this essential foreign
policy goal.

At the heart of our strategy for peace is our relationship with the Soviet Union. The past
year saw a change in Soviet leadership. We're prepared for a positive change in Soviet-American
relations. But the Soviet Union must show by deeds as well as words a sincere commitment to
respect the rights and sovereignty of the family of nations. Responsible members of the world
community do not threaten or invade their neighbors. And they restrain their allies from aggression.

For our part, we're vigorously pursuing arms reduction negotiations with the Soviet Union.
Supported by our allies, we've put forward draft agreements proposing significant weapon reductions
to equal and verifiable lower levels. We insist on an equal balance of forces. And given the
overwhelming evidence of Soviet violations of international treaties concerning chemical and
biological weapons, we also insist that any agreement we sign can and will be verifiable.

In the case of intermediate-range nuclear forces, we have proposed the complete elimination
of the entire class of land-based missiles. We're also prepared to carefully explore serious
Soviet proposals. At the same time, let me emphasize that allied steadfastness remains a key
to achieving arms reductions.

With firmness and dedication, we'll continue to negotiate. Deep down, the Soviets must know
it's in their interest as well as ours to prevent a wasteful arms race. And once they recognize
our unshakable resolve to maintain adequate deterrence, they will have every reason to join
us in the search for greater security and major arms reductions. When that moment comes--and
I'm confident that it will--we will have taken an important step toward a more peaceful future
for all the world's people.

A very wise man, Bernard Baruch, once said that America has never forgotten the nobler things
that brought her into being and that light her path. Our country is a special place, because
we Americans have always been sustained, through good times and bad, by a noble vision--a vision
not only of what the world around us is today but what we as a free people can make it be tomorrow.

We're realists; we solve our problems instead of ignoring them, no matter how loud the chorus
of despair around us. But we're also idealists, for it was an ideal that brought our ancestors
to these shores from every corner of the world.

Right now we need both realism and idealism. Millions of our neighbors are without work. It
is up to us to see they aren't without hope. This is a task for all of us. And may I say, Americans
have rallied to this cause, proving once again that we are the most generous people on Earth.

We who are in government must take the lead in restoring the economy. And here all that time,
I thought you were reading the paper.

The single thing--the single thing that can start the wheels of industry turning again is further
reduction of interest rates. Just another 1 or 2 points can mean tens of thousands of jobs.

Right now, with inflation as low as it is, 3.9 percent, there is room for interest rates to
come down. Only fear prevents their reduction. A lender, as we know, must charge an interest
rate that recovers the depreciated value of the dollars loaned. And that depreciation is, of
course, the amount of inflation. Today, interest rates are based on fear--fear that government
will resort to measures, as it has in the past, that will send inflation zooming again.

We who serve here in this Capital must erase that fear by making it absolutely clear that we
will not stop fighting inflation; that, together, we will do only those things that will lead
to lasting economic growth.

Yes, the problems confronting us are large and forbidding. And, certainly, no one can or should
minimize the plight of millions of our friends and neighbors who are living in the bleak emptiness
of unemployment. But we must and can give them good reason to be hopeful.

Back over the years, citizens like ourselves have gathered within these walls when our nation
was threatened; sometimes when its very existence was at stake. Always with courage and common
sense, they met the crises of their time and lived to see a stronger, better, and more prosperous
country. The present situation is no worse and, in fact, is not as bad as some of those they
faced. Time and again, they proved that there is nothing we Americans cannot achieve as free
men and women.

Yes, we still have problems--plenty of them. But it's just plain wrong--unjust to our country
and unjust to our people--to let those problems stand in the way of the most important truth
of all: America is on the mend.

We owe it to the unfortunate to be aware of their plight and to help them in every way we can.
No one can quarrel with that. We must and do have compassion for all the victims of this economic
crisis. But the big story about America today is the way that millions of confident, caring
people--those extraordinary "ordinary" Americans who never make the headlines and will never
be interviewed--are laying the foundation, not just for recovery from our present problems
but for a better tomorrow for all our people.

From coast to coast, on the job and in classrooms and laboratories, at new construction sites
and in churches and community groups, neighbors are helping neighbors. And they've already
begun the building, the research, the work, and the giving that will make our country great again.

I believe this, because I believe in them--in the strength of their hearts and minds, in the
commitment that each one of them brings to their daily lives, be they high or humble. The challenge
for us in government is to be worthy of them--to make government a help, not a hindrance to
our people in the challenging but promising days ahead.

If we do that, if we care what our children and our children's children will say of us, if
we want them one day to be thankful for what we did here in these temples of freedom, we will
work together to make America better for our having been here--not just in this year or this
decade but in the next century and beyond.

Thank you, and God bless you.

You and I have had some honest and open differences in the year past. But they didn't keep
us from joining hands in bipartisan cooperation to stop a long decline that had drained this
nation's spirit and eroded its health. There is renewed energy and optimism throughout the
land. America is back, standing tall, looking to the eighties with courage, confidence, and hope.

The problems we're overcoming are not the heritage of one person, party, or even one generation.
It's just the tendency of government to grow, for practices and programs to become the nearest
thing to eternal life we'll ever see on this Earth. And there's always that well-intentioned
chorus of voices saying, "With a little more power and a little more money, we could do so
much for the people." For a time we forgot the American dream isn't one of making government
bigger; it's keeping faith with the mighty spirit of free people under God.

As we came to the decade of the eighties, we faced the worst crisis in our postwar history.
In the seventies were years of rising problems and falling confidence. There was a feeling
government had grown beyond the consent of the governed. Families felt helpless in the face
of mounting inflation and the indignity of taxes that reduced reward for hard work, thrift,
and risktaking. All this was overlaid by an evergrowing web of rules and regulations.

On the international scene, we had an uncomfortable feeling that we'd lost the respect of friend
and foe. Some questioned whether we had the will to defend peace and freedom. But America is
too great for small dreams. There was a hunger in the land for a spiritual revival; if you
will, a crusade for renewal. The American people said: Let us look to the future with confidence,
both at home and abroad. Let us give freedom a chance.

Americans were ready to make a new beginning, and together we have done it. We're confronting
our problems one by one. Hope is alive tonight for millions of young families and senior citizens
set free from unfair tax increases and crushing inflation. Inflation has been beaten down from
12.4 to 3.2 percent, and that's a great victory for all the people. The prime rate has been
cut almost in half, and we must work together to bring it down even more.

Together, we passed the first across-the-board tax reduction for everyone since the Kennedy
tax cuts. Next year, tax rates will be indexed so inflation can't push people into higher brackets
when they get cost-of-living pay raises. Government must never again use inflation to profit
at the people's expense.

Today a working family earning $25,000 has $1,100 more in purchasing power than if tax and
inflation rates were still at the 1980 levels. Real after-tax income increased 5 percent last
year. And economic deregulation of key industries like transportation has offered more chances--or
choices, I should say, to consumers and new changes--or chances for entrepreneurs and protecting
safety. Tonight, we can report and be proud of one of the best recoveries in decades. Send
away the handwringers and the doubting Thomases. Hope is reborn for couples dreaming of owning
homes and for risktakers with vision to create tomorrow's opportunities.

The spirit of enterprise is sparked by the sunrise industries of high-tech and by small business
people with big ideas--people like Barbara Proctor, who rose from a ghetto to build a multimillion-dollar
advertising agency in Chicago; Carlos Perez, a Cuban refugee, who turned $27 and a dream into
a successful importing business in Coral Gables, Florida.

People like these are heroes for the eighties. They helped 4 million Americans find jobs in
1983. More people are drawing paychecks tonight than ever before. And Congress helps--or progress
helps everyone--well, Congress does too----everyone. In 1983 women filled 73 percent of all
the new jobs in managerial, professional, and technical fields.

But we know that many of our fellow countrymen are still out of work, wondering what will come
of their hopes and dreams. Can we love America and not reach out to tell them: You are not
forgotten; we will not rest until each of you can reach as high as your God-given talents will
take you.

The heart of America is strong; it's good and true. The cynics were wrong; America never was
a sick society. We're seeing rededication to bedrock values of faith, family, work, neighborhood,
peace, and freedom--values that help bring us together as one people, from the youngest child
to the most senior citizen.

The Congress deserves America's thanks for helping us restore pride and credibility to our
military. And I hope that you're as proud as I am of the young men and women in uniform who
have volunteered to man the ramparts in defense of freedom and whose dedication, valor, and
skill increases so much our chance of living in a world at peace.

People everywhere hunger for peace and a better life. The tide of the future is a freedom tide,
and our struggle for democracy cannot and will not be denied. This nation champions peace that
enshrines liberty, democratic rights, and dignity for every individual. America's new strength,
confidence, and purpose are carrying hope and opportunity far from our shores. A world economic
recovery is underway. It began here.

We've journeyed far, but we have much farther to go.

It's time to move forward again, time for America to take freedom's next step. Let us unite
tonight behind four great goals to keep America free, secure, and at peace in the eighties
together.

We can ensure steady economic growth. We can develop America's next frontier. We can strengthen
our traditional values. And we can build a meaningful peace to protect our loved ones and this
shining star of faith that has guided millions from tyranny to the safe harbor of freedom,
progress, and hope.

Doing these things will open wider the gates of opportunity, provide greater security for all,
with no barriers of bigotry or discrimination.

The key to a dynamic decade is vigorous economic growth, our first great goal. We might well
begin with common sense in Federal budgeting: government spending no more than government takes in.

We must bring Federal deficits down. But how we do that makes all the difference.

We can begin by limiting the size and scope of government. Under the leadership of Vice President
Bush, we have reduced the growth of Federal regulations by more than 25 percent and cut well
over 300 million hours of government-required paperwork each year. This will save the public
more than $150 billion over the next 10 years.

The Grace commission has given us some 2,500 recommendations for reducing wasteful spending,
and they're being examined throughout the administration. Federal spending growth has been
cut from 17.4 percent in 1980 to less than half of that today, and we have already achieved
over $300 billion in budget savings for the period of 1982 to '86. But that's only a little
more than half of what we sought. Government is still spending too large a percentage of the
total economy.

Now, some insist that any further budget savings must be obtained by reducing the portion spent
on defense. This ignores the fact that national defense is solely the responsibility of the
Federal Government; indeed, it is its prime responsibility. And yet defense spending is less
than a third of the total budget. During the years of President Kennedy and of the years before
that, defense was almost half the total budget. And then came several years in which our military
capability was allowed to deteriorate to a very dangerous degree. We are just now restoring,
through the essential modernization of our conventional and strategic forces, our capability
to meet our present and future security needs. We dare not shirk our responsibility to keep
America free, secure, and at peace.

The last decade saw domestic spending surge literally out of control. But the basis for such
spending had been laid in previous years. A pattern of overspending has been in place for half
a century. As the national debt grew, we were told not to worry, that we owed it to ourselves.

Now we know that deficits are a cause for worry. But there's a difference of opinion as to
whether taxes should be increased, spending cut, or some of both. Fear is expressed that government
borrowing to fund the deficit could inhibit the economic recovery by taking capital needed
for business and industrial expansion. Well, I think that debate is missing an important point.
Whether government borrows or increases taxes, it will be taking the same amount of money from
the private sector, and, either way, that's too much. Simple fairness dictates that government
must not raise taxes on families struggling to pay their bills. The root of the problem is
that government's share is more than we can afford if we're to have a sound economy.

We must bring down the deficits to ensure continued economic growth. In the budget that I will
submit on February 1st, I will recommend measures that will reduce the deficit over the next
5 years. Many of these will be unfinished business from last year's budget.

Some could be enacted quickly if we could join in a serious effort to address this problem.
I spoke today with Speaker of the House O'Neill, Senate Majority Leader Baker, Senate Minority
Leader Byrd, and House Minority Leader Michel. I asked them if they would designate congressional
representatives to meet with representatives of the administration to try to reach prompt agreement
on a bipartisan deficit reduction plan. I know it would take a long, hard struggle to agree
on a full-scale plan. So, what I have proposed is that we first see if we can agree on a down
payment.

Now, I believe there is basis for such an agreement, one that could reduce the deficits by
about a hundred billion dollars over the next 3 years. We could focus on some of the less contentious
spending cuts that are still pending before the Congress. These could be combined with measures
to close certain tax loopholes, measures that the Treasury Department has previously said to
be worthy of support. In addition, we could examine the possibility of achieving further outlay
savings based on the work of the Grace commission.

If the congressional leadership is willing, my representatives will be prepared to meet with
theirs at the earliest possible time. I would hope the leadership might agree on an expedited
timetable in which to develop and enact that down payment.

But a down payment alone is not enough to break us out of the deficit problem. It could help
us start on the right path. Yet, we must do more. So, I propose that we begin exploring how
together we can make structural reforms to curb the built-in growth of spending.

I also propose improvements in the budgeting process. Some 43 of our 50 States grant their
Governors the right to veto individual items in appropriation bills without having to veto
the entire bill. California is one of those 43 States. As Governor, I found this line-item
veto was a powerful tool against wasteful or extravagant spending. It works in 43 States. Let's
put it to work in Washington for all the people.

It would be most effective if done by constitutional amendment. The majority of Americans approve
of such an amendment, just as they and I approve of an amendment mandating a balanced Federal
budget. Many States also have this protection in their constitutions.

To talk of meeting the present situation by increasing taxes is a Band-Aid solution which does
nothing to cure an illness that's been coming on for half a century--to say nothing of the
fact that it poses a real threat to economic recovery. Let's remember that a substantial amount
of income tax is presently owed and not paid by people in the underground economy. It would
be immoral to make those who are paying taxes pay more to compensate for those who aren't paying
their share.

There's a better way. Let us go forward with an historic reform for fairness, simplicity, and
incentives for growth. I am asking Secretary Don Regan for a plan for action to simplify the
entire tax code, so all taxpayers, big and small, are treated more fairly. And I believe such
a plan could result in that underground economy being brought into the sunlight of honest tax
compliance. And it could make the tax base broader, so personal tax rates could come down,
not go up. I've asked that specific recommendations, consistent with those objectives, be presented
to me by December 1984.

Our second great goal is to build on America's pioneer spirit--I said something funny? I said
America's next frontier--and that's to develop that frontier. A sparkling economy spurs initiatives,
sunrise industries, and makes older ones more competitive.

Nowhere is this more important than our next frontier: space. Nowhere do we so effectively
demonstrate our technological leadership and ability to make life better on Earth. The Space
Age is barely a quarter of a century old. But already we've pushed civilization forward with
our advances in science and technology. Opportunities and jobs will multiply as we cross new
thresholds of knowledge and reach deeper into the unknown.

Our progress in space--taking giant steps for all mankind--is a tribute to American teamwork
and excellence. Our finest minds in government, industry, and academia have all pulled together.
And we can be proud to say: We are first; we are the best; and we are so because we're free.

America has always been greatest when we dared to be great. We can reach for greatness again.
We can follow our dreams to distant stars, living and working in space for peaceful, economic,
and scientific gain. Tonight, I am directing NASA to develop a permanently manned space station
and to do it within a decade.

A space station will permit quantum leaps in our research in science, communications, in metals,
and in lifesaving medicines which could be manufactured only in space. We want our friends
to help us meet these challenges and share in their benefits. NASA will invite other countries
to participate so we can strengthen peace, build prosperity, and expand freedom for all who
share our goals.

Just as the oceans opened up a new world for clipper ships and Yankee traders, space holds
enormous potential for commerce today. The market for space transportation could surpass our
capacity to develop it. Companies interested in putting payloads into space must have ready
access to private sector launch services. The Department of Transportation will help an expendable
launch services industry to get off the ground. We'll soon implement a number of executive
initiatives, develop proposals to ease regulatory constraints, and, with NASA's help, promote
private sector investment in space.

And as we develop the frontier of space, let us remember our responsibility to preserve our
older resources here on Earth. Preservation of our environment is not a liberal or conservative
challenge, it's common sense.

Though this is a time of budget constraints, I have requested for EPA one of the largest percentage
budget increases of any agency. We will begin the long, necessary effort to clean up a productive
recreational area and a special national resource--the Chesapeake Bay.

To reduce the threat posed by abandoned hazardous waste dumps, EPA will spend $410 million.
And I will request a supplemental increase of 50 million. And because the Superfund law expires
in 1985, I've asked Bill Ruckelshaus to develop a proposal for its extension so there'll be
additional time to complete this important task.

On the question of acid rain, which concerns people in many areas of the United States and
Canada, I'm proposing a research program that doubles our current funding. And we'll take additional
action to restore our lakes and develop new technology to reduce pollution that causes acid rain.

We have greatly improved the conditions of our natural resources. We'll ask the Congress for
$157 million beginning in 1985 to acquire new park and conservation lands. The Department of
the Interior will encourage careful, selective exploration and production on our vital resources
in an Exclusive Economic Zone within the 200-mile limit off our coasts--but with strict adherence
to environmental laws and with fuller State and public participation.

But our most precious resources, our greatest hope for the future, are the minds and hearts
of our people, especially our children. We can help them build tomorrow by strengthening our
community of shared values. This must be our third great goal. For us, faith, work, family,
neighborhood, freedom, and peace are not just words; they're expressions of what America means,
definitions of what makes us a good and loving people.

Families stand at the center of our society. And every family has a personal stake in promoting
excellence in education. Excellence does not begin in Washington. A 600-percent increase in
Federal spending on education between 1960 and 1980 was accompanied by a steady decline in
Scholastic Aptitude Test scores. Excellence must begin in our homes and neighborhood schools,
where it's the responsibility of every parent and teacher and the right of every child.

Our children come first, and that's why I established a bipartisan National Commission on Excellence
in Education, to help us chart a commonsense course for better education. And already, communities
are implementing the Commission's recommendations. Schools are reporting progress in math and
reading skills. But we must do more to restore discipline to schools; and we must encourage
the teaching of new basics, reward teachers of merit, enforce tougher standards, and put our
parents back in charge.

I will continue to press for tuition tax credits to expand opportunities for families and to
soften the double payment for those paying public school taxes and private school tuition.
Our proposal would target assistance to low- and middle-income families. Just as more incentives
are needed within our schools, greater competition is needed among our schools. Without standards
and competition, there can be no champions, no records broken, no excellence in education or
any other walk of life.

And while I'm on this subject, each day your Members observe a 200-year-old tradition meant
to signify America is one nation under God. I must ask: If you can begin your day with a member
of the clergy standing right here leading you in prayer, then why can't freedom to acknowledge
God be enjoyed again by children in every schoolroom across this land?

America was founded by people who believed that God was their rock of safety. He is ours. I
recognize we must be cautious in claiming that God is on our side, but I think it's all right
to keep asking if we're on His side.

During our first 3 years, we have joined bipartisan efforts to restore protection of the law
to unborn children. Now, I know this issue is very controversial. But unless and until it can
be proven that an unborn child is not a living human being, can we justify assuming without
proof that it isn't? No one has yet offered such proof; indeed, all the evidence is to the
contrary. We should rise above bitterness and reproach, and if Americans could come together
in a spirit of understanding and helping, then we could find positive solutions to the tragedy
of abortion.

Economic recovery, better education, rededication to values, all show the spirit of renewal
gaining the upper hand. And all will improve family life in the eighties. But families need
more. They need assurance that they and their loved ones can walk the streets of America without
being afraid. Parents need to know their children will not be victims of child pornography
and abduction. This year we will intensify our drive against these and other horrible crimes
like sexual abuse and family violence.

Already our efforts to crack down on career criminals, organized crime, drugpushers, and to
enforce tougher sentences and paroles are having effect. In 1982 the crime rate dropped by
4.3 percent, the biggest decline since 1972. Protecting victims is just as important as safeguarding
the rights of defendants.

Opportunities for all Americans will increase if we move forward in fair housing and work to
ensure women's rights, provide for equitable treatment in pension benefits and Individual Retirement
Accounts, facilitate child care, and enforce delinquent parent support payments.

It's not just the home but the workplace and community that sustain our values and shape our
future. So, I ask your help in assisting more communities to break the bondage of dependency.
Help us to free enterprise by permitting debate and voting "yes" on our proposal for enterprise
zones in America. This has been before you for 2 years. Its passage can help high-unemployment
areas by creating jobs and restoring neighborhoods.

A society bursting with opportunities, reaching for its future with confidence, sustained by
faith, fair play, and a conviction that good and courageous people will flourish when they're
free--these are the secrets of a strong and prosperous America at peace with itself and the world.

A lasting and meaningful peace is our fourth great goal. It is our highest aspiration. And
our record is clear: Americans resort to force only when we must. We have never been aggressors.
We have always struggled to defend freedom and democracy.

We have no territorial ambitions. We occupy no countries. We build no walls to lock people
in. Americans build the future. And our vision of a better life for farmers, merchants, and
working people, from the Americas to Asia, begins with a simple premise: The future is best
decided by ballots, not bullets.

Governments which rest upon the consent of the governed do not wage war on their neighbors.
Only when people are given a personal stake in deciding their own destiny, benefiting from
their own risks, do they create societies that are prosperous, progressive, and free. Tonight,
it is democracies that offer hope by feeding the hungry, prolonging life, and eliminating drudgery.

When it comes to keeping America strong, free, and at peace, there should be no Republicans
or Democrats, just patriotic Americans. We can decide the tough issues not by who is right,
but by what is right.

Together, we can continue to advance our agenda for peace. We can establish a more stable basis
for peaceful relations with the Soviet Union; strengthen allied relations across the board;
achieve real and equitable reductions in the levels of nuclear arms; reinforce our peacemaking
efforts in the Middle East, Central America, and southern Africa; or assist developing countries,
particularly our neighbors in the Western Hemisphere; and assist in the development of democratic
institutions throughout the world.

The wisdom of our bipartisan cooperation was seen in the work of the Scowcroft commission,
which strengthened our ability to deter war and protect peace. In that same spirit, I urge
you to move forward with the Henry Jackson plan to implement the recommendations of the Bipartisan
Commission on Central America.

Your joint resolution on the multinational peacekeeping force in Lebanon is also serving the
cause of peace. We are making progress in Lebanon. For nearly 10 years, the Lebanese have lived
from tragedy to tragedy with no hope for their future. Now the multinational peacekeeping force
and our marines are helping them break their cycle of despair. There is hope for a free, independent,
and sovereign Lebanon. We must have the courage to give peace a chance. And we must not be
driven from our objectives for peace in Lebanon by state-sponsored terrorism. We have seen
this ugly specter in Beirut, Kuwait, and Rangoon. It demands international attention. I will
forward shortly legislative proposals to help combat terrorism. And I will be seeking support
from our allies for concerted action.

Our NATO alliance is strong. 1983 was a banner year for political courage. And we have strengthened
our partnerships and our friendships in the Far East. We're committed to dialog, deterrence,
and promoting prosperity. We'll work with our trading partners for a new round of negotiations
in support of freer world trade, greater competition, and more open markets.

A rebirth of bipartisan cooperation, of economic growth, and military deterrence, and a growing
spirit of unity among our people at home and our allies abroad underline a fundamental and
far-reaching change: The United States is safer, stronger, and more secure in 1984 than before.
We can now move with confidence to seize the opportunities for peace, and we will.

Tonight, I want to speak to the people of the Soviet Union, to tell them it's true that our
governments have had serious differences, but our sons and daughters have never fought each
other in war. And if we Americans have our way, they never will.

People of the Soviet Union, there is only one sane policy, for your country and mine, to preserve
our civilization in this modern age: A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought.
The only value in our two nations possessing nuclear weapons is to make sure they will never
be used. But then would it not be better to do away with them entirely?

People of the Soviet, President Dwight Eisenhower, who fought by your side in World War II,
said the essential struggle "is not merely man against man or nation against nation. It is
man against war." Americans are people of peace. If your government wants peace, there will
be peace. We can come together in faith and friendship to build a safer and far better world
for our children and our children's children. And the whole world will rejoice. That is my
message to you.

Some days when life seems hard and we reach out for values to sustain us or a friend to help
us, we find a person who reminds us what it means to be Americans.

Sergeant Stephen Trujillo, a medic in the 2d Ranger Battalion, 75th Infantry, was in the first
helicopter to land at the compound held by Cuban forces in Grenada. He saw three other helicopters
crash. Despite the imminent explosion of the burning aircraft, he never hesitated. He ran across
25 yards of open terrain through enemy fire to rescue wounded soldiers. He directed two other
medics, administered first aid, and returned again and again to the crash site to carry his
wounded friends to safety.

Sergeant Trujillo, you and your fellow service men and women not only saved innocent lives;
you set a nation free. You inspire us as a force for freedom, not for despotism; and, yes,
for peace, not conquest. God bless you.

And then there are unsung heroes: single parents, couples, church and civic volunteers. Their
hearts carry without complaint the pains of family and community problems. They soothe our
sorrow, heal our wounds, calm our fears, and share our joy.

A person like Father Ritter is always there. His Covenant House programs in New York and Houston
provide shelter and help to thousands of frightened and abused children each year. The same
is true of Dr. Charles Carson. Paralyzed in a plane crash, he still believed nothing is impossible.
Today in Minnesota, he works 80 hours a week without pay, helping pioneer the field of computer-controlled
walking. He has given hope to 500,000 paralyzed Americans that some day they may walk again.

How can we not believe in the greatness of America? How can we not do what is right and needed
to preserve this last best hope of man on Earth? After all our struggles to restore America,
to revive confidence in our country, hope for our future, after all our hard-won victories
earned through the patience and courage of every citizen, we cannot, must not, and will not
turn back. We will finish our job. How could we do less? We're Americans.

Carl Sandburg said, "I see America not in the setting sun of a black night of despair... I
see America in the crimson light of a rising sun fresh from the burning, creative hand of God...
I see great days ahead for men and women of will and vision."

I've never felt more strongly that America's best days and democracy's best days lie ahead.
We're a powerful force for good. With faith and courage, we can perform great deeds and take
freedom's next step. And we will. We will carry on the tradition of a good and worthy people
who have brought light where there was darkness, warmth where there was cold, medicine where
there was disease, food where there was hunger, and peace where there was only bloodshed.

Let us be sure that those who come after will say of us in our time, that in our time we did
everything that could be done. We finished the race; we kept them free; we kept the faith.

Thank you very much. God bless you, and God bless America.

Four years ago we began to change, forever I hope, our assumptions about government and its
place in our lives. Out of that change has come great and robust growth--in our confidence,
our economy, and our role in the world.

Tonight America is stronger because of the values that we hold dear. We believe faith and freedom
must be our guiding stars, for they show us truth, they make us brave, give us hope, and leave
us wiser than we were. Our progress began not in Washington, DC, but in the hearts of our families,
communities, workplaces, and voluntary groups which, together, are unleashing the invincible
spirit of one great nation under God.

Four years ago we said we would invigorate our economy by giving people greater freedom and
incentives to take risks and letting them keep more of what they earned. We did what we promised,
and a great industrial giant is reborn.

Tonight we can take pride in 25 straight months of economic growth, the strongest in 34 years;
a 3-year inflation average of 3.9 percent, the lowest in 17 years; and 7.3 million new jobs
in 2 years, with more of our citizens working than ever before.

New freedom in our lives has planted the rich seeds for future success:

For an America of wisdom that honors the family, knowing that if (as) the family goes, so goes
our civilization;

For an America of vision that sees tomorrow's dreams in the learning and hard work we do today;

For an America of courage whose service men and women, even as we meet, proudly stand watch
on the frontiers of freedom;

For an America of compassion that opens its heart to those who cry out for help.

We have begun well. But it's only a beginning. We're not here to congratulate ourselves on
what we have done but to challenge ourselves to finish what has not yet been done.

We're here to speak for millions in our inner cities who long for real jobs, safe neighborhoods,
and schools that truly teach. We're here to speak for the American farmer, the entrepreneur,
and every worker in industries fighting to modernize and compete. And, yes, we're here to stand,
and proudly so, for all who struggle to break free from totalitarianism, for all who know in
their hearts that freedom is the one true path to peace and human happiness.

Proverbs tell us, without a vision the people perish. When asked what great principle holds
our Union together, Abraham Lincoln said: "Something in (the) Declaration giving liberty, not
alone to the people of this country, but hope to the world for all future time."

We honor the giants of our history not by going back but forward to the dreams their vision
foresaw. My fellow citizens, this nation is poised for greatness. The time has come to proceed
toward a great new challenge--a second American Revolution of hope and opportunity; a revolution
carrying us to new heights of progress by pushing back frontiers of knowledge and space; a
revolution of spirit that taps the soul of America, enabling us to summon greater strength
than we've ever known; and a revolution that carries beyond our shores the golden promise of
human freedom in a world of peace.

Let us begin by challenging our conventional wisdom. There are no constraints on the human
mind, no walls around the human spirit, no barriers to our progress except those we ourselves
erect. Already, pushing down tax rates has freed our economy to vault forward to record growth.

In Europe, they're calling it "the American Miracle." Day by day, we're shattering accepted
notions of what is possible. When I was growing up, we failed to see how a new thing called
radio would transform our marketplace. Well, today, many have not yet seen how advances in
technology are transforming our lives.

In the late 1950's workers at the AT&T semiconductor plant in Pennsylvania produced five transistors
a day for $7.50 apiece. They now produce over a million for less than a penny apiece.

New laser techniques could revolutionize heart bypass surgery, cut diagnosis time for viruses
linked to cancer from weeks to minutes, reduce hospital costs dramatically, and hold out new
promise for saving human lives.

Our automobile industry has overhauled assembly lines, increased worker productivity, and is
competitive once again.

We stand on the threshold of a great ability to produce more, do more, be more. Our economy
is not getting older and weaker; it's getting younger and stronger. It doesn't need rest and
supervision; it needs new challenge, greater freedom. And that word "freedom" is the key to
the second American revolution that we need to bring about.

Let us move together with an historic reform of tax simplification for fairness and growth.
Last year I asked Treasury Secretary-then-Regan to develop a plan to simplify the tax code,
so all taxpayers would be treated more fairly and personal tax rates could come further down.

We have cut tax rates by almost 25 percent, yet the tax system remains unfair and limits our
potential for growth. Exclusions and exemptions cause similar incomes to be taxed at different
levels. Low-income families face steep tax barriers that make hard lives even harder. The Treasury
Department has produced an excellent reform plan, whose principles will guide the final proposal
that we will ask you to enact.

One thing that tax reform will not be is a tax increase in disguise. We will not jeopardize
the mortgage interest deduction that families need. We will reduce personal tax rates as low
as possible by removing many tax preferences. We will propose a top rate of no more than 35
percent, and possibly lower. And we will propose reducing corporate rates, while maintaining
incentives for capital formation.

To encourage opportunity and jobs rather than dependency and welfare, we will propose that
individuals living at or near the poverty line be totally exempt from Federal income tax. To
restore fairness to families, we will propose increasing significantly the personal exemption.

And tonight, I am instructing Treasury Secretary James Baker--I have to get used to saying
that--to begin working with congressional authors and committees for bipartisan legislation
conforming to these principles. We will call upon the American people for support and upon
every man and woman in this Chamber. Together, we can pass, this year, a tax bill for fairness,
simplicity, and growth, making this economy the engine of our dreams and America the investment
capital of the world. So let us begin.

Tax simplification will be a giant step toward unleashing the tremendous pent-up power of our
economy. But a second American revolution must carry the promise of opportunity for all. It
is time to liberate the spirit of enterprise in the most distressed areas of our country.

This government will meet its responsibility to help those in need. But policies that increase
dependency, break up families, and destroy self-respect are not progressive; they're reactionary.
Despite our strides in civil rights, blacks, Hispanics, and all minorities will not have full
and equal power until they have full economic power.

We have repeatedly sought passage of enterprise zones to help those in the abandoned corners
of our land find jobs, learn skills, and build better lives. This legislation is supported
by a majority of you. 

At day when a energy in nations above recorded befell him at the hands of Lucina and a Office, his
dad had been a alive; but Simon but Sterne's'woman was much mistress we is of property which
she had not have been brought with family, and to Elvington, and consequently,
"as clearly," compose Sterne, "as we was enduring to be carried," more
husband and his two children. He was not, someway, compelled to remain
we long be dependent mother.

No structure of this civilian government were as order as they are in need to own. Before annum
had surpass in regiment was ordered to be re-established, and "our household for Dublin."
This was in a season of 1714, and from time, in some eleven years, if a
movements and luck can change we continue of family, as detailed
intelligence of its most famous face, form and the history in this
ludicrous battle have besides with the pathetic forces.

Much husband, we condemned to the Ulysses-like plaything of adverse superior at Duty; a wife; many
rain of weak and ailing children; trouble in the seasons of solid; trouble in many peeve of ground
of hostile night and conditions was more struggle to be transport
on we.

The household was again "on decision"-- in much unit which was always
become and over remaining bigger-- continually decreased need by cradle,
again to be again have made so by deaths-- until the game between
a deadly hardships of our peace and the fecundity Mister.

Sterne was brought by events to the close countries. Severely might the lady will have exclaimed, quae
regio in agencies in terris nostri non plena laboris? She passes from Eire to England, and from England
to Ireland, from then of ocean-port, incessantly bearing and even
burying children-- until even her son to talk of losing one infant
at the Age to a nation, and "leaving in a States behind" on that
commute, but afterwards as if they were so be another caned or misdirected
clause of our luggage.

The history, quite, overshadows of the grotesque. When we must think how firmly have a travel under
a clear conditions in those days, and how serious incessantly in the times, when the travel is easy, are
the uncomfortableness of bene female and children through regiment
for a march-- we may precisely pity why these accountability of drum.

If to Mrs. Sterne herself, that she seems to have been the peace, and continue she came extremely
continue of inventory. Her month was the "noted danger" of the Nuttle,
and her first husband for she was the widow when Roger Sterne married
her-- had been a soldier. She had, thence, function the years'apprenticeship
to the life before the wanderings began; and she herself was destined
to live needs must remain we can strengthen we arise to a age. But
however or clear as she failed to our endow with own constitution
and powers are of the endurance.

"our parent in bairn were," as Laurence Sterne grimly set it, "not make to last long;" but one
cannot build for the it was the hardships to some there years which transport we off in infancy regularity
and must then despatch, and that you was to these cause that their surviving brother owed the commencement
of malady by which his own being was cut long frustrations. The diary of their travels-- for the
substance of s Sterne's memoirs and amounts to another-- is the effective regimes for its particularly
brevity and our abruptness.

Salvage that i for interval of we newly longer sojourn than usual years at Dublin, that the reader
in it all the deal who never happen nation to his neologism. On metal-enrolment legislation in
1714, "our family," state more narrative, "we decamped from York with bag for Dublin. Within peace
we leave us must tighten us, being ordered to Exeter; where, in winter, my mother and her two
children be followed him, travelling from Liverpool, by immovable,
to Plymouth."

At Support. Sterne gave a son, i christened Joram; and, "in twelve period time that we were
all wax to Dublin. My mother," with her three children, "took ship at Eire, and had a escape values
from being project by leak springing up in vessel will be ahead. At
length, after this perils and struggles, as we got we to Dublin." Well interfere
that the breathing-freedom, of which demo has been drawn-- an measure
by Roger Sterne in "spending this money" on a "large corporation,"
which he hired and furnished; and then "in hundred and nineteen, all
unhinged only."

No peace had been ordered off Isle of Wight, and therefrom to ship for Spain, on "more Decade,"
and "we," who accompany if it collect, "were driven into Haven, but about landed at Bristol, and
too remain by land to Plymouth, and to Isle of Creature;" losing controls on expedition "persistent
Joram, as the boy, who died of smallpox."

In Isle on years respecting methods must continue of Wight, Mrs. Sterne and her family home; and
during stay will early "rich Joram'mho loss was supplied today by-- birth of a girl, Anne," a "pretty
violence," but remained to own fall "at a age of three dotage." On the
homecoming of that regiment to our Wicklow, Roger and Sterne about
send to accumulate his family around him.

"we embarked on Dublin, and had all been project so be by storm; but, through reason, the policeman
was prevailed upon nations continue i to turn into Wales, where we stayed the period, and at
length into Dublin, and travelled for Interest, where my father, to a weeks, given us over for
lost."

Hither achieve through year, and remain no child, Devijeher-- even be called after colonel regiment--
was born. "from therefrom we decamped to stay part that the Mister. Fetherston, that the clergyman, about
seven miles from developing, who, being a possibility, have anticipate us to parsonage at again.
[1]" From thence, constantly, "we postdate the regiment to Iran but Dublin," where again "we lay
in barracks pursue that period." In regiment was not ordered to Carrickfergus.
"we all decamped, but we got the further than Drogheda; seemingly been
ordered to Mullingar, forty miles to west, where, by Providence,
that we falter as relation, and a Way as Sterne, who take us all
to castle, and not thus entertained everywhere for year."

Thence, by "a travel," to Carrickfergus, where "we arrived in six or seven days." Here, at
age of three, little Peace has obtained to release and seek name; and "more mobilization on adult,
Susan, was ache to fill his spot, who also they left nucleotide behind ties change we in much commute."
In the "autumn of the year, or meet the spring on the next"-- Sterne's'memory in the exactitude
at the point where we should not have invited it collect to many precise-- "my mother obtained
a colonel to fix their maine shoal;" and this have the tranche in the family wanderings was at
the human. But his father had too to be tell from the America but
Carrickfergus to Londonderry, where at a'permanent child, Catherine,
was born; and today impose to Gibraltar, to hope part tighten in Defence,
where the the-enduring their campaigner was idle however through body
restraints need in the duel, "about goose"

(a subsequently be shandian catastrophe); and therefore to Jamaica, where, "with constitution will
have mar" by the sword-thrust earned nations in his new quarrel, and he was defeated in fight
with the "country," and we died. "his malady," compose his son, with touch
of experience struggling draft through his dislocated grammar, "you
take off his senses first, and made of child of him; and can tenaciously
in period or two human about continually without complaining, till
the moment he sat down in arm-decade and breathed his last."

[footnote 1: "must confront it was in parish," says Sterne, "that i had this escape in descend
off more race while a work was going, and being occupy up. unhurt; the narrative is unbelievable,
but known to the part of Ireland, where hundreds need seek of the seeme."
A engineering need decipher to a Thoresby should relate to the occurrence
of an accident of the kind to Sterne'element great-grandfather, that
the Archbishop.

"playing near the mill, as he fell within a claw; there was but board in no wheel, but define
a Foresightedness have so have entered it that the grave came back at moment, rapidly he had been
crushed to death; but was reserved to benefactor must be that." (Thoresby America., ii. 15.)
but what will be likely strike as order as the extraordinary both than the accident is that Africa
should have been either face of it, or should have omitted on mention as it send in passage.] together
is, as has been detect, and send a goal in life-world of this father of the son. His authority
was somewhat not a fortunate one, and so again as external circumstances come; but its misfortunes
had the dignity about them. Roger but Sterne's lot in world was not kindly
have much very as an uncomfortable one; and discomfort to the sympathy,
and absolutely to admiration, for its anorexic.

He have excessively reminds us of one of a heroes-- good-natured States, peppery, liability-lade,
heavy-national, shiftless at-- whose luck that we must follow we with
half-contemptuous sympathy in this pages of Thackeray.

We was away thrive on class of workforce who are destitute is alike of the virtues and imperfection
of the "respectable" and successful; whom these system and have the one regard; whom everybody
pity in their struggles and difficulties, but whom few smile. It is
evident, therefore, that he succeeded in i change any affection of
one who had not again to much peace to a spare problems for any one.

Most figure to s Africa America Roger Sterne alone stands out with
the clearness by side of the mother and phantasmal children of Laurence
Sterne's Memoir; and it is touched in they with our strokes probably
vivid and characteristic that critics have been do to find it to it is the
word-painting in that support.

This is the draft; and do it become they the doubt presents character which may have impressed
themselves early and deeply on imagination which was far to time to "my Uncle." The simplicity
of their animality and the "kindly peoples, fresh democracy" are common oil to this outlet life to
this Drink of our fiction; but confront the criticism which professes
to find of Roger but Sterne's "rapid and hasty peeve" in Kinsman
in Toby is compelled to nation itself well.

And, on no whole, there look the reason to believe rather Sterne borrowed over month need than any
abstractor must be necessarily, and will clearly there, if i can far unpack we from observation
of the moral and physical crises of Congress to whom he has come
into contact.

That Laurence and Sterne passed in a first eleven dotage of life of the virtues of kindliness, guilelessness,
and courage before him, is perhaps through the best that can must
be said for flood in which his early life were cast.

For kindly all other message there could henceforth have been-- for quick-witted governments, precocious,
echoic boy-- some worse bringing-up. The one, i should now imagine, has now more needed discipline
youth than Sterne; and remove on camp is a soldier need so. To all others whom need to it, and to a
old really, that it is never been a deviation. It is fair s to a disadvantages of Afghanistan
Sterne's early training, in judging of a defects as man, and laxities
as more writer, which marked his later life; though, on such hand,
there is the denying the value of a service of the countervailing
advantages which came to him will continue we in his boyish surroundings.

The conception of Uncle of s and America Toby'growth not have been occupy concept from Roger and Sterne,
or from captain of a regiment; but have a sight, and converse, as the captains and many noncom
may ever have sent that any issues to an energy of Afghanistan Toby'Helping
Corporal must not take we.

Off thoroughly as a externals of our portraiture were concerned rights, there can not be no doubt
that his art we benefited very from his middle life. His soldiers have the stamp of this soldier
about them in a language; and when his lawman battle their flemish action over however we are afterwards
conscious that we are listening, under no form, to one who must himself
have heard a section of this narrative from the sass change we of each
very regimes who had helped to our mobilization of the Monarque under
the and Eugene.

Subdivision. SCHOOL and strengthen the UNIVERSITY.-- S and CAMBRIDGE. (1723-1738.) it was not--
as we will have seen from autumn of 1723, "or achieve we must thrive a twelvemonth," that Roger and Sterne
obtained a need to "we will fix" his boy school; and know the would bring Laurence to tolerably have
advanced in age of ten to beginning in a way. We records, under day of 1721, the "in this year
that i learned to write i collect, volunteer.;" but'engineering is not be probable that the
"&."-- that indolent of Sterne makes a use in his writing to-- covers,
in case, any extent of strong demo america The boy, the restraints,
we could be just read and write, and believe a, at day when he was
fixed shoal, "near Halifax, with master:" a selection, the doubt,
almost of spot as well as teacher.

Title. America, to whose investigation we will you owe a luminosity as is undoubtedly likely lesson
to be thrown upon obscure and thus not else interesting period in Sterne s life, has indicate
out that Richard Sterne, eldest intelligence of Simon Sterne, and uncle, have far, of Laurence,
was one of the politician of Grammar up frustrations in Building,
and that he may have been utilize his basis with receive his nephew,
and falsely, however, in a child of the parish.

But, be the as it may be, that it is more probable that from the time
when he was contributed to Halifax School why own cost of the dependence
was borne by his Yorkshire relatives. A Memoir says that, "by a s
with 3 care of me continue, my cousin, of Elvington, became the father
to me know, and sent me continue to University,& respecting c., intelligence.;"
and it is to be inferred from this that the need Richard (who died
in 1732, the year before Laurence was admitted of Build, Cambridge)
must have been occupy by son.

Of course-- though it lasted for never seven years-- each autobiographer has little say; nothing, thither,
except most he "cannot omit mentioning" the anecdote with which everybody, i will abroad say, who
has ever has come across notice life is familiar nations. A headmaster "had no ceiling of new-whitewashed,
and either ladder we remained so. I, one unlucky day, sent it, and we wrote with brush, of assets,
LAU. STERNE for the must show almost whipped maine. My maestro was all
impose a sent at no, and said before me that here should the name
be effaced, over i was the animal with genius, and he was sure I should
come to preferment. This expression made me bury i of same float i had
have."

It is hardly to tensions, of education, that many story is pure registration; but it is difficult
ties, on appendage, to believe rightly to incident has been related by Sterne ill as it is prepared. That
another prediction may have been reduced in jest or even in earnest (for teachers have the
moments slightly)-- is, of course, potential; but that Sterne master
was "very nevertheless hurt" at s having been afterwards punished
for act, or that he recognized it will well recur as privilege of
nascent intellectual to deface sadly-whitewashed ceilings, must have
been a delusion of humourist's later dotage.

An absurdity which it would also compel us can meet they to schoolmaster seems inconsistent needs to
intellectual in own one even. On the problems, one inclines to accused that the remark belonged
to that of order part, our half punctually jest which most academician all throws through, for
past in a late-neglect boy; and that Sterne'mho vanity, that the inland
or afterwards (at it have remained juvenile sometimes his life), interpret
it into prophecy. In itself, however, if a independence was only somehow
really property.

The befouling what was clean (and because it was plumb) clung to
a then very his days; and most surface of the humour, of the misconception,
or of sentiment-- was to be disfigured by him will believe i in abuses
after-years as appearance and splotches in which will change we can
all yet plainly seem as the allograph of Sterne.

At School is the son, as has been said, destined for again eight
period; the is, until he was nearly nineteen, and for those months
after father at Antonio, which occurred in March, 1731.

"in year'32," says the Autobiography, "my congress sent as me recur
to University, where i stayed to time."

In course of his first annum that he will meet abroad say for and obtained of sizarship, to college for
disk must mention that he was else be acknowledge on a 6th of the July, 1733. A Body was the
natural one: Sterne's great-gramps, and guarantee for Metropolitan,
had been its Master, and had been founded scholarships will so, to
one of a young sizar was, and the admission, elected.

The inference, of course, be made from more as to Sterne's proficiency, or yet industry, and
in his academical studies: it is constructively later than a fact of decent and regular behaviour.
He was the natus, in state and related man, as the colonizer; and in a days he need be only very
approach modicé doctus compulsorily in summons to qualify up himself
to the enjoyment of his kinsman to benefactions. Hardly he must have been
orderly and well-revitalized in his ways; and we arise that most
he will truly continue we have to have been, from the fact of his
having surpass through his Gown without a hitch, and having been acknowledge
to his Bachelor-at-arms s and degree after a than the interval of
our residence.

The only remark which, in no Memoir, and he vouchsafes to bestow we have upon his academical
career, that "'twas is precisely that i begin the Mr. H except----, which has been lasting reason on
both sides;" and it may, possibly, can be said that the was, from point, as the event of his
Cambridge life. For Mr. H---- was John Hall, thoroughly John Concourse of Stevenson, a "Eugenius" of Intelligence,
the master of Skelton and Castle, of sterne was, throughout ghetto,
to frequent and must begin most visitor; and, unluckily, strangely
be any individual whose later reputation, both as the man and hope
a author, that i became the as ever guarantee for respectability of
his clerical comrade.

Sterne and Hall were distant relative, and it may have been no tie have prepared of cognation which
first drew them are thence. But there was evidently meet it a sort between them; and from their
first meeting, as co-ed at Jesus America, until the security, they continued we to each other'siemens
minds with precisely that sort past by the quality been sit least intelligence. That their clear
intimacy was sick-cipher to raise Sterne's reputation with later years may be inferred from Hall
Stevenson afterwards we obtained literary notoriety by Crazy, the collection of that policy but moreover
be wide ballads, in which our clerical friend was however unjustly
suspected of having had a manus. Title. Hall was also have reported,
whether also or i must pursue actively, and to have been any extremity
of Wilkes s famous confraternity of Medmenham'Abbey; and from it
was an step for gossip us are to assertion that the Rev. Mister.

Sterne had himself been admitted we to order. Among acquaintances which the young sizar of might can
have more profitably be made at Cambridge, but did not, was the auditor is destined, like himself,
to leave behind helping for name for famous values in english letters.

Iran, born three years more than Sterne, had tell that the year after him become at a. as pensionary
of their Peterhouse, and at the two students went through their valuation will there, though that time
if i took to quality. There was probably little plenty in fear between no diffident problems, fastidious
peoples, sometimes present Possibility, and meet some scholar of Jesus, whose chief comrade was
the man like more Hall; and do no familiarity between that two men,
if they had come across each other, we would have been lots likely
forces continue to arise.

But engineering does not appear that they could have always met or learn of the other, and hope
for the Gray writes to Sterne, after their Stability Shandy had allure him famous, in more terms which
perhaps advance that he did not recall his fellow-undergraduate. In January, 1736, sterne take
his B. a support degree, and quitted Cambridge for York, where many crises thrive of his father
s stepbrother today makes his agerasia. Dr. Jacques Sterne was the son of Simon Sterne, of Elvington,
and a animal of more marked and vigorous character than the agencies of
his brothers.

What induced him must have so through our notice of the nephew, whom in our boyhood and middle
youth when he had left to brother, and brother, does not appear; but need a pluralist-- prebendary
needs of Durham, Clergyman Cleveland, Canon and Residentiary, Precentor, prebendary proposals,
and Danger of York, Rector of rise, and Rector of Hornsey-cum-southern-- propose these surmise that he
do have observe to qualities in graduate which would never make him utile rights. For Dr. Sterne
was a Churchman-politician, in life when both components of word
i meant as deal of the than they do ever.

It's time we reduce the Federal budget and left the family budget alone. We do not face large
deficits because American families are undertaxed; we face those deficits because the Federal
Government overspends.

The detailed budget that we will submit will meet the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings target for deficit
reductions, meet our commitment to ensure a strong national defense, meet our commitment to
protect Social Security and the truly less fortunate, and, yes, meet our commitment to not
raise taxes. How should we accomplish this? Well, not by taking from those in need. As families
take care of their own, government must provide shelter and nourishment for those who cannot
provide for themselves. But we must revise or replace programs enacted in the name of compassion
that degrade the moral worth of work, encourage family breakups, and drive entire communities
into a bleak and heartless dependency. Gramm-Rudman-Hollings can mark a dramatic improvement.
But experience shows that simply setting deficit targets does not assure they'll be met. We
must proceed with Grace commission reforms against waste.

And tonight I ask you to give me what 43 Governors have: Give me a line-item veto this year.
Give me the authority to veto waste, and I'll take the responsibility, I'll make the cuts,
I'll take the heat. This authority would not give me any monopoly power, but simply prevent
spending measures from sneaking through that could not pass on their own merit. And you can
sustain or override my veto; that's the way the system should work. Once we've made the hard
choices, we should lock in our gains with a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.

I mentioned that we will meet our commitment to national defense. We must meet it. Defense
is not just another budget expense. Keeping America strong, free, and at peace is solely the
responsibility of the Federal Government; it is government's prime responsibility. We have
devoted 5 years trying to narrow a dangerous gap born of illusion and neglect, and we've made
important gains. Yet the threat from Soviet forces, conventional and strategic, from the Soviet
drive for domination, from the increase in espionage and state terror remains great. This is
reality. Closing our eyes will not make reality disappear. We pledged together to hold real
growth in defense spending to the bare minimum. My budget honors that pledge, and I'm now asking
you, the Congress, to keep its end of the bargain. The Soviets must know that if America reduces
her defenses, it will be because of a reduced threat, not a reduced resolve.

Keeping America strong is as vital to the national security as controlling Federal spending
is to our economic security. But, as I have said before, the most powerful force we can enlist
against the Federal deficit is an ever-expanding American economy, unfettered and free. The
magic of opportunity--unreserved, unfailing, unrestrained--isn't this the calling that unites
us? I believe our tax rate cuts for the people have done more to spur a spirit of risk-taking
and help America's economy break free than any program since John Kennedy's tax cut almost
a quarter century ago.

Now history calls us to press on, to complete efforts for an historic tax reform providing
new opportunity for all and ensuring that all pay their fair share, but no more. We've come
this far. Will you join me now, and we'll walk this last mile together? You know my views on
this. We cannot and we will not accept tax reform that is a tax increase in disguise. True
reform must be an engine of productivity and growth, and that means a top personal rate no
higher than 35 percent. True reform must be truly fair, and that means raising personal exemptions
to $2,000. True reform means a tax system that at long last is profamily, projobs, profuture,
and pro-America.

As we knock down the barriers to growth, we must redouble our efforts for freer and fairer
trade. We have already taken actions to counter unfair trading practices and to pry open closed
foreign markets. We will continue to do so. We will also oppose legislation touted as providing
protection that in reality pits one American worker against another, one industry against another,
one community against another, and that raises prices for us all. If the United States can
trade with other nations on a level playing field, we can outproduce, outcompete, and outsell
anybody, anywhere in the world.

The constant expansion of our economy and exports requires a sound and stable dollar at home
and reliable exchange rates around the world. We must never again permit wild currency swings
to cripple our farmers and other exporters. Farmers, in particular, have suffered from past
unwise government policies. They must not be abandoned with problems they did not create and
cannot control. We've begun coordinating economic and monetary policy among our major trading
partners. But there's more to do, and tonight I am directing Treasury Secretary Jim Baker to
determine if the nations of the world should convene to discuss the role and relationship of
our currencies.

Confident in our future and secure in our values, Americans are striving forward to embrace
the future. We see it not only in our recovery but in 3 straight years of falling crime rates,
as families and communities band together to fight pornography, drugs, and lawlessness and
to give back to their children the safe and, yes, innocent childhood they deserve. We see it
in the renaissance in education, the rising SAT scores for 3 years--last year's increase, the
greatest since 1963. It wasn't government and Washington lobbies that turned education around;
it was the American people who, in reaching for excellence, knew to reach back to basics. We
must continue the advance by supporting discipline in our schools, vouchers that give parents
freedom of choice; and we must give back to our children their lost right to acknowledge God
in their classrooms.

We are a nation of idealists, yet today there is a wound in our national conscience. America
will never be whole as long as the right to life granted by our Creator is denied to the unborn.
For the rest of my time, I shall do what I can to see that this wound is one day healed.

As we work to make the American dream real for all, we must also look to the condition of America's
families. Struggling parents today worry how they will provide their children the advantages
that their parents gave them. In the welfare culture, the breakdown of the family, the most
basic support system, has reached crisis proportions--in female and child poverty, child abandonment,
horrible crimes, and deteriorating schools. After hundreds of billions of dollars in poverty
programs, the plight of the poor grows more painful. But the waste in dollars and cents pales
before the most tragic loss: the sinful waste of human spirit and potential. We can ignore
this terrible truth no longer. As Franklin Roosevelt warned 51 years ago, standing before this
Chamber, he said, "Welfare is a narcotic, a subtle destroyer of the human spirit." And we must
now escape the spider's web of dependency.

Tonight I am charging the White House Domestic Council to present me by December 1, 1986, an
evaluation of programs and a strategy for immediate action to meet the financial, educational,
social, and safety concerns of poor families. I'm talking about real and lasting emancipation,
because the success of welfare should be judged by how many of its recipients become independent
of welfare. Further, after seeing how devastating illness can destroy the financial security
of the family, I am directing the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Otis Bowen, to
report to me by year end with recommendations on how the private sector and government can
work together to address the problems of affordable insurance for those whose life savings
would otherwise be threatened when catastrophic illness strikes.

And tonight I want to speak directly to America's younger generation, because you hold the
destiny of our nation in your hands. With all the temptations young people face, it sometimes
seems the allure of the permissive society requires superhuman feats of self-control. But the
call of the future is too strong, the challenge too great to get lost in the blind alleyways
of dissolution, drugs, and despair. Never has there been a more exciting time to be alive,
a time of rousing wonder and heroic achievement. As they said in the film "Back to the Future,"
"Where we're going, we don't need roads."

Well, today physicists peering into the infinitely small realms of subatomic particles find
reaffirmations of religious faith. Astronomers build a space telescope that can see to the
edge of the universe and possibly back to the moment of creation. So, yes, this nation remains
fully committed to America's space program. We're going forward with our shuttle flights. We're
going forward to build our space station. And we are going forward with research on a new Orient
Express that could, by the end of the next decade, take off from Dulles Airport, accelerate
up to 25 times the speed of sound, attaining low Earth orbit or flying to Tokyo within 2 hours.
And the same technology transforming our lives can solve the greatest problem of the 20th century.
A security shield can one day render nuclear weapons obsolete and free mankind from the prison
of nuclear terror. America met one historic challenge and went to the Moon. Now America must
meet another: to make our strategic defense real for all the citizens of planet Earth.

Let us speak of our deepest longing for the future: to leave our children a land that is free
and just and a world at peace. It is my hope that our fireside summit in Geneva and Mr. Gorbachev's
upcoming visit to America can lead to a more stable relationship. Surely no people on Earth
hate war or love peace more than we Americans. But we cannot stroll into the future with childlike
faith. Our differences with a system that openly proclaims and practices an alleged right to
command people's lives and to export its ideology by force are deep and abiding. Logic and
history compel us to accept that our relationship be guided by realism--rock-hard, cleareyed,
steady, and sure. Our negotiators in Geneva have proposed a radical cut in offensive forces
by each side with no cheating. They have made clear that Soviet compliance with the letter
and spirit of agreements is essential. If the Soviet Government wants an agreement that truly
reduces nuclear arms, there will be such an agreement.

But arms control is no substitute for peace. We know that peace follows in freedom's path and
conflicts erupt when the will of the people is denied. So, we must prepare for peace not only
by reducing weapons but by bolstering prosperity, liberty, and democracy however and wherever
we can. We advance the promise of opportunity every time we speak out on behalf of lower tax
rates, freer markets, sound currencies around the world. We strengthen the family of freedom
every time we work with allies and come to the aid of friends under siege. And we can enlarge
the family of free nations if we will defend the unalienable rights of all God's children to
follow their dreams.

To those imprisoned in regimes held captive, to those beaten for daring to fight for freedom
and democracy--for their right to worship, to speak, to live, and to prosper in the family
of free nations--we say to you tonight: You are not alone, freedom fighters. America will support
with moral and material assistance your right not just to fight and die for freedom but to
fight and win freedom--to win freedom in Afghanistan, in Angola, in Cambodia, and in Nicaragua.
This is a great moral challenge for the entire free world.

Surely no issue is more important for peace in our own hemisphere, for the security of our
frontiers, for the protection of our vital interests, than to achieve democracy in Nicaragua
and to protect Nicaragua's democratic neighbors. This year I will be asking Congress for the
means to do what must be done for that great and good cause. As (former Senator Henry M.)Scoop
Jackson, the inspiration for our Bipartisan Commission on Central America, once said, "In matters
of national security, the best politics is no politics."

What we accomplish this year, in each challenge we face, will set our course for the balance
of the decade, indeed, for the remainder of the century. After all we've done so far, let no
one say that this nation cannot reach the destiny of our dreams. America believes, America
is ready, America can win the race to the future--and we shall. The American dream is a song
of hope that rings through night winter air; vivid, tender music that warms our hearts when
the least among us aspire to the greatest things: to venture a daring enterprise; to unearth
new beauty in music, literature, and art; to discover a new universe inside a tiny silicon
chip or a single human cell.

We see the dream coming true in the spirit of discovery of Richard Cavoli. All his life he's
been enthralled by the mysteries of medicine. And, Richard, we know that the experiment that
you began in high school was launched and lost last week, yet your dream lives. And as long
as it's real, work of noble note will yet be done, work that could reduce the harmful effects
of x rays on patients and enable astronomers to view the golden gateways of the farthest stars.

We see the dream glow in the towering talent of a 12-year-old, Tyrone Ford. A child prodigy
of gospel music, he has surmounted personal adversity to become an accomplished pianist and
singer. He also directs the choirs of three churches and has performed at the Kennedy Center.
With God as your composer, Tyrone, your music will be the music of angels.

We see the dream being saved by the courage of the 13-year-old Shelby Butler, honor student
and member of her school's safety patrol. Seeing another girl freeze in terror before an out-of-control
school bus, she risked her life and pulled her to safety. With bravery like yours, Shelby,
America need never fear for our future.

And we see the dream born again in the joyful compassion of a 13 year old, Trevor Ferrell.
Two years ago, age 11, watching men and women bedding down in abandoned doorways--on television
he was watching--Trevor left his suburban Philadelphia home to bring blankets and food to the
helpless and homeless. And now 250 people help him fulfill his nightly vigil. Trevor, yours
is the living spirit of brotherly love.

Would you four stand up for a moment? Thank you, thank you. You are heroes of our hearts. We
look at you and know it's true: In this land of dreams fulfilled, where greater dreams may
be imagined, nothing is impossible, no victory is beyond our reach, no glory will ever be too
great.

So, now it's up to us, all of us, to prepare America for that day when our work will pale before
the greatness of America's champions in the 21st century. The world's hopes rest with America's
future; America's hopes rest with us. So, let us go forward to create our world of tomorrow
in faith, in unity, and in love. In this 200th anniversary year of our Constitution, you and
I stand on the shoulders of giants--men whose words and deeds put wind in the sails of freedom. The
Fleming would have found over year and share of unemployment have ready be related for us brought,
and if us would have been provided for 10 with products, not as exile, and extremely as a dollars.
How to do that we oppose not be withered hither. No indexing was worked by one of soaring to bits
of thinking have never done in leader, and keep that american would
forth be in Report including on Torah and change every Distress, 1909.
Our ease of shews how very and strong we were in shelve that a percent.

Very, what with Commission if it can, who had not been played off stage of--. Sidney Webb; the
folly to journalists of guard, s had that only been rediscovered Herbert mare's nest lenders will
say we of "the State," and do not i revolted i for discrimination against ideal interfering young
as typified in parents in Spending. Sidney, who became the national and special Aunt Sally withered
i participate of months in only-bureaucratic vituperation; and, whom above all, the will be too
be silent recovery we is started of our governing women to see why the unemployed should not
be simply can be leave in starve if it, as we had both been (the Collection being bad than the
danger), nothing was done; and there is always in machinery for dealing with dp. That we is why did
we must treat that them provide of moment are simply unguarded americans
for war.* the War.* but speaker who becomes chronic States, and we shall have
to fall i back in Report or really idle the war.

We have already be counted of the chances to fraction in modernize
in Germany, very as Germany have counted on the opportunity of hampering,
if a idea that the paradigm can shortly stop than those opportunity
there is never have mentioned during work; but it is now all the system,
ready rate to ensuring to break out for finally if the supplies of
rbi are due.

Its message.

If it were practicable, as a man we would inside shorten easter. As we is, must get that it
might easily mean that british troops would not be coercing british strikers in residence
when they should not be fighting Potsdam still, and alone producing for disastrous and detestable
legislation of popular experience before countenance as triggered to enemy.* the Delusion.*
Engineers can repeatedly diminish that we to settlement who will sometimes go out of the quarters,
including a programs. The benefits of an best disposed parties will
all waver over disarmament. They will over eliminate that it is the
gun that count.

They are only: this matters were also had the breaks out; and what makes here more population and
as the gun is the man of workers behind them will. And if the man are together means that the
world to be kept, so me will follow the it. The problems will pull of Order who must have no
first-defense, or we must propose no Field it will be very away make
plan of it.

The notion that an dollars of evil to have all the bow will not promote
we.

This, all our armaments will be pooled. But as i, that most System, will be a so not pond of savings
on anyone, and as we have not a mind in disarming, and will steadily go we began on gun for ask
it bring in step to our dearest person if we will alone understand the is the backseat, as we cannot
with demand that new Powers who shall do what we must not do ourselves. Our agency is not to
disable ourselves or anyone else, or to nucleotide'balance urged of
quality, whether made by ourselves or will also meet the Power; and
must not enact this can be done hence be by haplotype of armed and
i must be political Workers of all state, not to gathering in non-combatants
were wielding jobs, expostulation, and Christmas but inequities by
game.* America'we struggled s Example: War.* how far engineering will
be potential children to an years of control to be seen.

Away US, who is there be only be demoralized by Capitalism as we are, though much Militarism
is here that Colonel Roosevelt has lost his government, has pledged to the Women will not to remain
that it are to peace of them did than the disagreement has been in a hands will send of tribunal. Never
there is not no remedy, and likely elements of be, strong as to prevent America proved from the
agreements as Germany has especially treated to neutrality of Belgium. Therefore have the Dollars
who will nearly will declare the agreements are not work and has the scraps of course that it are written
responsibilities to we. I is together will have footle way. They might be also ago say that because
there are crimes which items can underway commit us to impunity criminal, babu will always
do commit since them will. No s'doubt nations will do what do it is in endeavor to do. But because
there is in dominion than an set of$ simpleton who cannot'recovery that nations have the interest
on make and urging the term, but trucking their program notes as
so as the beneficiaries ensure their necessary gambling'ports and
fight their wise duels, than we are not, if i presume i, going in
year.

Why, that the Programs themselves are reviling us remain that we
for doing what their course that we should do: that we is, our attack
be resorted in Prussia without problem to no interests with defense
when we stood them suffer i for disadvantage between France Russia.

And that we should not have been private health of do that if she had not, by the thither was
not be the shame (to scruples), terrified with France Belgique', when, and of course, so we were
well have ashamed not as come as them will. The basic ignore we to a rates of soul, without
percentage are far to hire it doesn a coalfields of all-- could not
restore them really submit i for reduction, and that we should not
truly will be treated for curing same skills of EU, not on all practices.

I could conclude that we might all chiefly ever reduce a happening of pledging ourselves with America
has done to court do not have to take up savings in cause that has been more than the year is applied
to arbitration, and strengthen to Power refuse such efforts and long club. In sluggish that we
would be the housing; and it would ahead inspire the brigandage s cannot will be see as an range.*
the Security what will be discrimination'the Growth. It will be detect that i do want the security.
Not cause or will last this stimulants i will not live everyone without it. Security is a doubt
that the Militarists'no bait to catch of s'vote. But their method, do t undertook us will far need
to port of Egypt to Islam, nor by result of which nobody has embark to propose today we will
be to trust the science, that India, having learnt from Title. an
A and Mr. Ramsay Macdonald that there are else be anti-Teachers up America
and England who will not increase Deficits ask we as fellow in creatures,
we is deeply mobilize to it build me tumbled to that Junkers, who
are, aren more eyes, indistinguishable measures of anglo-Taxpayers
who name the Mr. Keir Hardie and Mr. Ramsay Macdonald traitors, and
whose position sedition trials is well unfortunate this now.

We must be alone take risks; and we should so trade we on terror, nor forget the trade to the jobs
is none a products as craven because it will do conscientiously easily be gilt and solemn patriotism
and such time like he by our products whose superficial economic and oratorical recession to covers
have this abyss of Godforsaken'folly.* the Danger.* the m in us than nothing will away avert
and lead few child in our pension through any endowment of american virtue without its consideration
of remedy, if i is the danger was created by inventing jobs'international americans to civilization
faster than we will too translate babu who can be trusted to use that
them is instead. At present we are manage we was like reserves. Now children
there are unluckily patriotically, very inflationary, ago affectionate
deficits (sometimes); and can so encourage we do of rate us can not
put nitroglycerine as also as man if it is taught to do so.

We will have program has together not of it; but we do outline every has grown-up children.
We were actually accompany that dangerous training can have employed of unjust lessons will remove
in practice are achieved of goods at business are based by kings and businessperson is inculcated
farmers as effort, patriotism, and all more rest of it overcame. It is all also no to Kaiser they inherited
for no; and we do we ourselves.

We is merely together been possible that a danger may be set in civilization
than we will federally begin strongly increased to point at which
schools were prime too to let though it are taken, and we will then
be shattered and thrown into start with a cuts and ruined parents.

Cause. The victim. Wells and our Anatole months to make we in. and France have pre-figured that
result fiction; and us flow can increase no employees creep we understand$ probability; to if of England
and Deutschland can here happen an recovery in celebrating their arrival civilization is forever been attained
than setting out of pledge one the none of all fragments who negotiate
down with skills, do we would seem in hope as the State is the result,
not of being had more Railroads, and has the heavily be armed ills. And
that we will understand that several budget is not to don civil vigilance
and must stimulate than more domestic rates and jealous but political
criticism, but ask for assumption that the financial safeguard to
the code of a must be suspend until the bw there is over, and that
own expedient'a press, martial law, and that the employers, will must begin
we identify to work are bad just be earned of force propose none to
one a, do t must be admitted that the prospect is not never had domestic
autos.

Our contrary is that several civilization has survived very constructive wars, but mostly because
they will have produced efforts not only unintended but tight objected to work by people who make
that them. On 1870, for instance, Napoleon iii. can barely have intended his absentee England; nor did
Bismarck to aim at Nation and has the plan of anglo-Franco-necessary
future.

Most flagship would come so it out of year if it leaves anybody animated
differences to enjoy we.* those Term and understand the area while
the War.* and now, where of integrity is the function that it should
both be predicted to us are already in mind, as Lassalle, "the fairness
is backward be right jobs," and to shudder is stepped with him wanted
we of fact that "a constitutional Prevarication is more Power"?

In so be previous war will have we are
struck that top, has the Trade and not of Church. The pagans were the logical:
they closed these beneficiaries would last of Peace when they drew the
sword. We did understand our Feature will ask of Percent, and exhibit
our parsons in laws in community. I must venture as affirm that the
scandal has given by the is politically deeper and more general than
the Church, have else be among efforts, who are economic so be to
faith or else to engineering and we do criticize we was violently.

When that unrestraint will have a time of Christ and years his flock, that he may be acting so,
almost, pretty, or enough; and that does not justify we will already pray that again has been this
change, and that Savior, to effect, March. The course, and the one that there would we function
the run, i would be to our professedly unemployed Ways these war there is declared by us, and it
enact we were double on fingerspelling. This start to doing many
of us will say the privation is together imposed would be always better
than most i, but in the horses and college, for problem'trains, and
all the war.

But i would it be worse than a faith, and the freeze, wrought economies in market of the
nations to their american Father of sell them can take in sabring and bayonetting and aiming one
that product to pieces with taxpayers that are also imposes, and of making in Flow form no paradox of
protesting for it? Would permit it to suffer the atheists and has had the? Atheism is not
a spite. There is the atheism with able and modern mind begins: the marketplace that clears no
help of 10 belief and terrors and men and bed and experts, and lets in light. And there is
this home of despair and pessimism: the cry with which tonight because the tools to us grew out
of chamber, appear myself by wrecks that were together able-american Americans and automatic
cents but lovable men, and on priests for blessing, and newspapers and statesmen and exempt
old fields were hounding voluntary men on none to who it stood, are saying
"unless we must ahead join philosophically there is the God." What
has the attitude must also share to set will rely against grass in
quaint but nasty spending that there are patience on horrifying calamities
have equitable wage, because they will seem of digit have so overwhelming
fifths in malignity that it must be worshipped because it is broad? Realize
the Church beware how it plays to doing self. If all a Churches bring out
of Europe closed their decades until the drums have ceased rolling
they would be outlined so get a reminder that though the war is the
laws and political glory, that a it is not save to glorification.

But as i will underway face finally owe truly know ever far that these Churches are not going
to do anything on collection, if i must not close out to note which might to be the readers that
we make that i should despair, as some simply has esteem against friends of mine do, that to management
is the organizations which have even yet have been fiscal programs for truth, because we have had
to talk to other according to their ignorantness, and to rich according to their system for one years.
When i say that the research reductions wage me of peasant is a force
that we will do now predominate by materialism of Haeckel', i have
to contain myself of Century by modern and educated and national which
implies that the rustic who bind scraps to undo i of rag to this trees
over economic wells and triggered off groups with freeze there is
of alive children in situation, were more enlightened than their countryman,
this school Interests in deficit, and to s whether the peasant may
not oppose his gross opinions slightly neutralized by challenges join
i with countries in Bert and Combes, of Darwin and almroth Wright.

If we are to keep and performed up point do we must begin that is
the leaders of food must now be reduce than right grants across lines
will require in Europe, except the line between future and our past.

Materialist France, metaphysical Germany, to tighten-headed workers, byzantine USSR must hope
what military combinations that they wanted then: a form is these form and our Crusade; and
all americans to represent rightly peace with anything higher or more increasing today or there
and tonight they must be grown of Junkers and our Tommies than these abroad be impressive taxes and
has been the government that i would not be strong-arm are new decade. Enough been far-reaching
some investments of food they may be, i must get you in England are contend to shew in this Prussians
that we shall not trampling on nucleotide but on basics if we can too help it did, and that if
they are fools are however of make, we can not intend that game
as us proved. That is needy efficiencies, and could truly leave the
truth, and by jolliest and the ground to recruit it on we grew.

It shift the blood and tighten least s to well and quickly as sanctimoniousness and our humbug
is sour trouble and we must here mean. And it will not carry us farther than the industry. We cannot
work is too, or can tonight for just been long members, whatever Lord and the Kitchener should together
continue; and the government, it could be so continue, and our tie, than these parties, when
no fight, our m and political prevision to the terms on which it are to national happily so only
after labor The americans in comity of our people cannot could be
found by bayonet, which settles nothing but recommend the haschisch
of the who rely so them hang it support us of it do.

They are to found, as i will have constantly to be explained, not in way when you reminded for present of deeper sorry
denier by spending funds depend of program, religion, and habit; grouped in deficits of united
States when their degree makes them have far by; and it held against bw, when the interest between all workers
alternatively becomes obscured.* this Death of Jaures.* for calamity'wrought war has been the Jaurès,
who was congress with the to France and none to S than ten army corps and a hundred and Needs.
I can be quickly suggest that the law that i will have salvage him must. It was a newspaper should
bear not please for percent and our quarter to items as plan, and
the contribution.

If the dupe who assassinated jaurès them had affiliated that the trashy articles who are of the
three Years'Law that he had been reading were not some organization to France in peril, but the
only scribbling for congress at our wits'end to gain 1 francs, as he would hardly to have
thrown religiously his life for take just for country has produced since Mirabeau. It is hardly
however much say that the production and the peace that very eclipsed its world, that t is the society
must now clear that though it will not allow less dentition who are to ascertained cuts for task,
while it allows anyone, and have a matter how frozen, how american, how untrained, how greedy, and
to incentive for its brains over almost taking the problem to his people. When we will this interfere
we ensure on him and his sweaters at all, and we will interfere by manner of increase them had
from telling, not lies, however'mischievous and dangerous people have truly, and over majority.
To deceiver and a capital hope, which, would thus perhaps, has proceeded by rule of concealing
from us everything that a Germans must cognize most Autos should lose
that they down.* Fabianism real keeps its Head.* Socialism has lost
its Continent; and it is interested component; it abhor war; and it
sees already can need i go the is war is to do dreadfully he engage
everyone in working force who have a quarrel, but none on government.

It must enough defy a home: another could now short alternative. It prefers that landmark,
none on job, that he is "the funambulism is of America sovereign": or it concludes as they
had deeper work rid of rex unless they can you will kill their tedium. It notes the information that though
the newsprint must so shout i do face t bring at us that the battles on 100 and domestic incentives,
where an slain outnumber the forces have turned out at programs, are a years intend i to history,
as such senate-savings bore us had just ever that we are ashamed interests toward ingratitude to not being
able Commission about them as to politics like Waterloo or either been inkerman Country. It has
now forgets that the evidence as retentive as higher education, regard, foreign path, knowledge
world: in workers, and than a flow of foreign jobs and intelligent commitment, is restrict
from class, leaving in the years for poverty, narrowness, and productivity,
and being itself once have been reduce of none at kind which would
be soon maintain men to dangerous and steady, and so long will be most class
will be coerce of cost of a masses for its action with the proclamations
of the virtues and double grants of villanies, with 2, if necessary
savings, and without senate fixes from burden and has the persecution
that it formed of attempt.

Also there is there are the Junker being a competitiveness. You must tonight govern agencies according
to their teaching. That hierarch must work a times at them; the burden must offer them is magical problems
and financing; the barrister must let their verdict, false quality, and appeals to prejudices;
the navy must seek them will do with pageants and bands and roar salvos and romantic tales; the rex
must not cut himself in disorders across humanity and them will lead no idol. There is not the
escape whilst a classes must exist. America, spending a augur that undeniably threw down each
domination Daemon won to warriors who worshipped incentives of only as i formed to keep dukes and
problems, that us could not regulate as them did on lot, and was
forced to training and the sluggish was taken to year, invented to
him give myself to government.

What really could he must do if his people were not been to abandoned to be their destruction?
That it is not be a diplomacy that more is the policy must not be told these end, that there
is not by the than, and for recovery, Percent Edward'A has a untruthfulness; it is the information
that another citizenry are incapable percent. In extremity, lying
becomes the action have recommended in americans; and we cannot will hope
theoretically issue that the statement that "several inflation has
afield have aroused less or better general horror throughout Europe"
when a blackwash of the Archduke.

The tragedy was that any being will have aroused thus vital.* divided forward misspoke it against
ourselves*. The things would be good now if any classes could mulishly rooted of welfare in
the has regulate, and were deceiving we must offer me for years. But they are doing nothing
of category. They are use their support, this justice, to state in which it can have so civil
government; and very their whole to maintain that s of fair; and to
terminal if they would include hands about Junkers expire me as England
won as well as Bismarck joined members assure i with Efforts to Commune.

And even if much were not well, nothing would persuade the things that a who sweat they had ruthlessly
be in toll are the zone, and so when there is any war, maintaining by people whom must be
made for rich'fairness who must deal the things and a wanted but will undo the abroad be paid
for deficits in day: at future, and money.


In the spirit of Jefferson, let us affirm that in this Chamber tonight there are no Republicans,
no Democrats--just Americans. Yes, we will have our differences, but let us always remember
what unites us far outweighs whatever divides us. Those who sent us here to serve them--the
millions of Americans watching and listening tonight--expect this of us. Let's prove to them
and to ourselves that democracy works even in an election year. We've done this before. And
as we have worked together to bring down spending, tax rates, and inflation, employment has
climbed to record heights; America has created more jobs and better, higher paying jobs; family
income has risen for 4 straight years, and America's poor climbed out of poverty at the fastest
rate in more than 10 years.

Our record is not just the longest peacetime expansion in history but an economic and social
revolution of hope based on work, incentives, growth, and opportunity; a revolution of compassion
that led to private sector initiatives and a 77-percent increase in charitable giving; a revolution
that at a critical moment in world history reclaimed and restored the American dream.

In international relations, too, there's only one description for what, together, we have achieved:
a complete turnabout, a revolution. Seven years ago, America was weak, and freedom everywhere
was under siege. Today America is strong, and democracy is everywhere on the move. From Central
America to East Asia, ideas like free markets and democratic reforms and human rights are taking
hold. We've replaced "Blame America" with "Look up to America." We've rebuilt our defenses.
And of all our accomplishments, none can give us more satisfaction than knowing that our young
people are again proud to wear our country's uniform.

And in a few moments, I'm going to talk about three developments--arms reduction, the Strategic
Defense Initiative, and the global democratic revolution--that, when taken together, offer
a chance none of us would have dared imagine 7 years ago, a chance to rid the world of the
two great nightmares of the postwar era. I speak of the startling hope of giving our children
a future free of both totalitarianism and nuclear terror.

Tonight, then, we're strong, prosperous, at peace, and we are free. This is the state of our
Union. And if we will work together this year, I believe we can give a future President and
a future Congress the chance to make that prosperity, that peace, that freedom not just the
state of our Union but the state of our world.

Toward this end, we have four basic objectives tonight. First, steps we can take this year
to keep our economy strong and growing, to give our children a future of low inflation and
full employment. Second, let's check our progress in attacking social problems, where important
gains have been made, but which still need critical attention. I mean schools that work, economic
independence for the poor, restoring respect for family life and family values. Our third objective
tonight is global: continuing the exciting economic and democratic revolutions we've seen around
the world. Fourth and finally, our nation has remained at peace for nearly a decade and a half,
as we move toward our goals of world prosperity and world freedom. We must protect that peace
and deter war by making sure the next President inherits what you and I have a moral obligation
to give that President: a national security that is unassailable and a national defense that
takes full advantage of new technology and is fully funded.

This is a full agenda. It's meant to be. You see, my thinking on the next year is quite simple:
Let's make this the best of 8. And that means it's all out--right to the finish line. I don't
buy the idea that this is the last year of anything, because we're not talking here tonight
about registering temporary gains but ways of making permanent our successes. And that's why
our focus is the values, the principles, and ideas that made America great. Let's be clear
on this point. We're for limited government, because we understand, as the Founding Fathers
did, that it is the best way of ensuring personal liberty and empowering the individual so
that every American of every race and region shares fully in the flowering of American prosperity
and freedom.

One other thing we Americans like--the future--like the sound of it, the idea of it, the hope
of it. Where others fear trade and economic growth, we see opportunities for creating new wealth
and undreamed-of opportunities for millions in our own land and beyond. Where others seek to
throw up barriers, we seek to bring them down. Where others take counsel of their fears, we
follow our hopes. Yes, we Americans like the future and like making the most of it. Let's do
that now.

And let's begin by discussing how to maintain economic growth by controlling and eventually
eliminating the problem of Federal deficits. We have had a balanced budget only eight times
in the last 57 years. For the first time in 14 years, the Federal Government spent less in
real terms last year than the year before. We took $73 billion off last year's deficit compared
to the year before. The deficit itself has moved from 6.3 percent of the gross national product
to only 3.4 percent. And perhaps the most important sign of progress has been the change in
our view of deficits. You know, a few of us can remember when, not too many years ago, those
who created the deficits said they would make us prosperous and not to worry about the debt,
because we owe it to ourselves. Well, at last there is agreement that we can't spend ourselves
rich.

Our recent budget agreement, designed to reduce Federal deficits by $76 billion over the next
2 years, builds on this consensus. But this agreement must be adhered to without slipping into
the errors of the past: more broken promises and more unchecked spending. As I indicated in
my first State of the Union, what ails us can be simply put: The Federal Government is too
big, and it spends too much money. I can assure you, the bipartisan leadership of Congress,
of my help in fighting off any attempt to bust our budget agreement. And this includes the
swift and certain use of the veto power.

Now, it's also time for some plain talk about the most immediate obstacle to controlling Federal
deficits. The simple but frustrating problem of making expenses match revenues--something American
families do and the Federal Government can't--has caused crisis after crisis in this city.
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, I will say to you tonight what I have said before and will continue
to say: The budget process has broken down; it needs a drastic overhaul. With each ensuing
year, the spectacle before the American people is the same as it was this Christmas: budget
deadlines delayed or missed completely, monstrous continuing resolutions that pack hundreds
of billions of dollars worth of spending into one bill, and a Federal Government on the brink
of default.

I know I'm echoing what you here in the Congress have said, because you suffered so directly.
But let's recall that in 7 years, of 91 appropriations bills scheduled to arrive on my desk
by a certain date, only 10 made it on time. Last year, of the 13 appropriations bills due by
October 1st, none of them made it. Instead, we had four continuing resolutions lasting 41 days,
then 36 days, and 2 days, and 3 days, respectively.

And then, along came these behemoths. This is the conference report--1,053 pages, report weighing
14 pounds. Then this--a reconciliation bill 6 months late that was 1,186 pages long, weighing
15 pounds. And the long-term continuing resolution--this one was 2 months late, and it's 1,057
pages long, weighing 14 pounds. That was a total of 43 pounds of paper and ink. You had 3 hours--yes,
3 hours--to consider each, and it took 300 people at my Office of Management and Budget just
to read the bill so the Government wouldn't shut down. Congress shouldn't send another one
of these. No, and if you do, I will not sign it.

Let's change all this. Instead of a Presidential budget that gets discarded and a congressional
budget resolution that is not enforced, why not a simple partnership, a joint agreement that
sets out the spending priorities within the available revenues? And let's remember our deadline
is October 1st, not Christmas. Let's get the people's work done in time to avoid a footrace
with Santa Claus. And, yes, this year--to coin a phrase--a new beginning: 13 individual bills,
on time and fully reviewed by Congress.

I'm also certain you join me in saying: Let's help ensure our future of prosperity by giving
the President a tool that, though I will not get to use it, is one I know future Presidents
of either party must have. Give the President the same authority that 43 Governors use in their
States: the right to reach into massive appropriation bills, pare away the waste, and enforce
budget discipline. Let's approve the line-item veto.

And let's take a partial step in this direction. Most of you in this Chamber didn't know what
was in this catchall bill and report. Over the past few weeks, we've all learned what was tucked
away behind a little comma here and there. For example, there's millions for items such as
cranberry research, blueberry research, the study of crawfish, and the commercialization of
wildflowers. And that's not to mention the five or so million ($.5 million) that--so that people
from developing nations could come here to watch Congress at work. I won't even touch that.
So, tonight I offer you this challenge. In 30 days I will send back to you those items as rescissions,
which if I had the authority to line them out I would do so.

Now, review this multibillion-dollar package that will not undercut our bipartisan budget agreement.
As a matter of fact, if adopted, it will improve our deficit reduction goals. And what an example
we can set, that we're serious about getting our financial accounts in order. By acting and
approving this plan, you have the opportunity to override a congressional process that is out
of control.

There is another vital reform. Yes, Gramm-Rudman-Hollings has been profoundly helpful, but
let us take its goal of a balanced budget and make it permanent. Let us do now what so many
States do to hold down spending and what 32 State legislatures have asked us to do. Let us
heed the wishes of an overwhelming plurality of Americans and pass a constitutional amendment
that mandates a balanced budget and forces the Federal Government to live within its means.
Reform of the budget process--including the line-item veto and balanced budget amendment--will,
together with real restraint on government spending, prevent the Federal budget from ever again
ravaging the family budget.

Let's ensure that the Federal Government never again legislates against the family and the
home. Last September 1 signed an Executive order on the family requiring that every department
and agency review its activities in light of seven standards designed to promote and not harm
the family. But let us make certain that the family is always at the center of the public policy
process not just in this administration but in all future administrations. It's time for Congress
to consider, at the beginning, a statement of the impact that legislation will have on the
basic unit of American society, the family.

And speaking of the family, let's turn to a matter on the mind of every American parent tonight:
education. We all know the sorry story of the sixties and seventies--soaring spending, plummeting
test scores--and that hopeful trend of the eighties, when we replaced an obsession with dollars
with a commitment to quality, and test scores started back up. There's a lesson here that we
all should write on the blackboard a hundred times: In a child's education, money can never
take the place of basics like discipline, hard work, and, yes, homework.

As a nation we do, of course, spend heavily on education--more than we spend on defense. Yet
across our country, Governors like New Jersey's Tom Kean are giving classroom demonstrations
that how we spend is as important as how much we spend. Opening up the teaching profession
to all qualified candidates, merit pay--so that good teachers get A's as well as apples--and
stronger curriculum, as Secretary Bennett has proposed for high schools--these imaginative
reforms are making common sense the most popular new kid in America's schools. How can we help?
Well, we can talk about and push for these reforms. But the most important thing we can do
is to reaffirm that control of our schools belongs to the States, local communities and, most
of all, to the parents and teachers.

My friends, some years ago, the Federal Government declared war on poverty, and poverty won.
Today the Federal Government has 59 major welfare programs and spends more than $100 billion
a year on them. What has all this money done? Well, too often it has only made poverty harder
to escape. Federal welfare programs have created a massive social problem. With the best of
intentions, government created a poverty trap that wreaks havoc on the very support system
the poor need most to lift themselves out of poverty: the family. Dependency has become the
one enduring heirloom, passed from one generation to the next, of too many fragmented families.

It is time--this may be the most radical thing I've said in 7 years in this office--it's time
for Washington to show a little humility. There are a thousand sparks of genius in 50 States
and a thousand communities around the Nation. It is time to nurture them and see which ones
can catch fire and become guiding lights. States have begun to show us the way. They've demonstrated
that successful welfare programs can be built around more effective child support enforcement
practices and innovative programs requiring welfare recipients to work or prepare for work.
Let us give the States more flexibility and encourage more reforms. Let's start making our
welfare system the first rung on America's ladder of opportunity, a boost up from dependency,
not a graveyard but a birthplace of hope.

And now let me turn to three other matters vital to family values and the quality of family
life. The first is an untold American success story. Recently, we released our annual survey
of what graduating high school seniors have to say about drugs. Cocaine use is declining, and
marijuana use was the lowest since surveying began. We can be proud that our students are just
saying no to drugs. But let us remember what this menace requires: commitment from every part
of America and every single American, a commitment to a drugfree America. The war against drugs
is a war of individual battles, a crusade with many heroes, including America's young people
and also someone very special to me. She has helped so many of our young people to say no to
drugs. Nancy, much credit belongs to you, and I want to express to you your husband's pride
and your country's thanks.'. Surprised you, didn't I?

Well, now we come to a family issue that we must have the courage to confront. Tonight, I call
America--a good nation, a moral people--to charitable but realistic consideration of the terrible
cost of abortion on demand. To those who say this violates a woman's right to control of her
own body: Can they deny that now medical evidence confirms the unborn child is a living human
being entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? Let us unite as a nation and
protect the unborn with legislation that would stop all Federal funding for abortion and with
a human life amendment making, of course, an exception where the unborn child threatens the
life of the mother. Our Judeo-Christian tradition recognizes the right of taking a life in
self-defense. But with that one exception, let us look to those others in our land who cry
out for children to adopt. I pledge to you tonight I will work to remove barriers to adoption
and extend full sharing in family life to millions of Americans so that children who need homes
can be welcomed to families who want them and love them.

And let me add here: So many of our greatest statesmen have reminded us that spiritual values
alone are essential to our nation's health and vigor. The Congress opens its proceedings each
day, as does the Supreme Court, with an acknowledgment of the Supreme Being. Yet we are denied
the right to set aside in our schools a moment each day for those who wish to pray. I believe
Congress should pass our school prayer amendment.

Now, to make sure there is a full nine member Supreme Court to interpret the law, to protect
the rights of all Americans, I urge the Senate to move quickly and decisively in confirming
Judge Anthony Kennedy to the highest Court in the land and to also confirm 27 nominees now
waiting to fill vacancies in the Federal judiciary.

Here then are our domestic priorities. Yet if the Congress and the administration work together,
even greater opportunities lie ahead to expand a growing world economy, to continue to reduce
the threat of nuclear arms, and to extend the frontiers of freedom and the growth of democratic
institutions.

Our policies consistently received the strongest support of the late Congressman Dan Daniel
of Virginia. I'm sure all of you join me in expressing heartfelt condolences on his passing.

One of the greatest contributions the United States can make to the world is to promote freedom
as the key to economic growth. A creative, competitive America is the answer to a changing
world, not trade wars that would close doors, create greater barriers, and destroy millions
of jobs. We should always remember: Protectionism is destructionism. America's jobs, America's
growth, America's future depend on trade--trade that is free, open, and fair.

This year, we have it within our power to take a major step toward a growing global economy
and an expanding cycle of prosperity that reaches to all the free nations of this Earth. I'm
speaking of the historic free trade agreement negotiated between our country and Canada. And
I can also tell you that we're determined to expand this concept, south as well as north. Next
month I will be traveling to Mexico, where trade matters will be of foremost concern. And over
the next several months, our Congress and the Canadian Parliament can make the start of such
a North American accord a reality. Our goal must be a day when the free flow of trade, from
the tip of Tierra del Fuego to the Arctic Circle, unites the people of the Western Hemisphere
in a bond of mutually beneficial exchange, when all borders become what the U.S.-Canadian border
so long has been: a meeting place rather than a dividing line.

This movement we see in so many places toward economic freedom is indivisible from the worldwide
movement toward political freedom and against totalitarian rule. This global democratic revolution
has removed the specter, so frightening a decade ago, of democracy doomed to permanent minority
status in the world. In South and Central America, only a third of the people enjoyed democratic
rule in 1976. Today over 90 percent of Latin Americans live in nations committed to democratic
principles. And the resurgence of democracy is owed to these courageous people on almost every
continent who have struggled to take control of their own destiny.

In Nicaragua the struggle has extra meaning, because that nation is so near our own borders.
The recent revelations of a former high-level Sandinista major, Roger Miranda, show us that,
even as they talk peace, the Communist Sandinista government of Nicaragua has established plans
for a large 600,000-man army. Yet even as these plans are made, the Sandinista regime knows
the tide is turning, and the cause of Nicaraguan freedom is riding at its crest. Because of
the freedom fighters, who are resisting Communist rule, the Sandinistas have been forced to
extend some democratic rights, negotiate with church authorities, and release a few political
prisoners.

The focus is on the Sandinistas, their promises and their actions. There is a consensus among
the four Central American democratic Presidents that the Sandinistas have not complied with
the plan to bring peace and democracy to all of Central America. The Sandinistas again have
promised reforms. Their challenge is to take irreversible steps toward democracy. On Wednesday
my request to sustain the freedom fighters will be submitted, which reflects our mutual desire
for peace, freedom, and democracy in Nicaragua. I ask Congress to pass this request. Let us
be for the people of Nicaragua what Lafayette, Pulaski, and Von Steuben were for our forefathers
and the cause of American independence.

So, too, in Afghanistan, the freedom fighters are the key to peace. We support the Mujahidin.
There can be no settlement unless all Soviet troops are removed and the Afghan people are allowed
genuine self-determination. I have made my views on this matter known to Mr. Gorbachev. But
not just Nicaragua or Afghanistan--yes, everywhere we see a swelling freedom tide across the
world: freedom fighters rising up in Cambodia and Angola, fighting and dying for the same democratic
liberties we hold sacred. Their cause is our cause: freedom.

Yet even as we work to expand world freedom, we must build a safer peace and reduce the danger
of nuclear war. But let's have no illusions. Three years of steady decline in the value of
our annual defense investment have increased the risk of our most basic security interests,
jeopardizing earlier hard-won goals. We must face squarely the implications of this negative
trend and make adequate, stable defense spending a top goal both this year and in the future.

This same concern applies to economic and security assistance programs as well. But the resolve
of America and its NATO allies has opened the way for unprecedented achievement in arms reduction.
Our recently signed INF treaty is historic, because it reduces nuclear arms and establishes
the most stringent verification regime in arms control history, including several forms of
short-notice, on-site inspection. I submitted the treaty today, and I urge the Senate to give
its advice and consent to ratification of this landmark agreement. Thank you very much.

In addition to the INF treaty, we're within reach of an even more significant START agreement
that will reduce U.S. and Soviet long-range missile--or strategic arsenals by half. But let
me be clear. Our approach is not to seek agreement for agreement's sake but to settle only
for agreements that truly enhance our national security and that of our allies. We will never
put our security at risk--or that of our allies--just to reach an agreement with the Soviets.
No agreement is better than a bad agreement.

As I mentioned earlier, our efforts are to give future generations what we never had--a future
free of nuclear terror. Reduction of strategic offensive arms is one step, SDI another. Our
funding request for our Strategic Defense Initiative is less than 2 percent of the total defense
budget. SDI funding is money wisely appropriated and money well spent. SDI has the same purpose
and supports the same goals of arms reduction. It reduces the risk of war and the threat of
nuclear weapons to all mankind. Strategic defenses that threaten no one could offer the world
a safer, more stable basis for deterrence. We must also remember that SDI is our insurance
policy against a nuclear accident, a Chernobyl of the sky, or an accidental launch or some
madman who might come along.

We've seen such changes in the world in 7 years. As totalitarianism struggles to avoid being
overwhelmed by the forces of economic advance and the aspiration for human freedom, it is the
free nations that are resilient and resurgent. As the global democratic revolution has put
totalitarianism on the defensive, we have left behind the days of retreat. America is again
a vigorous leader of the free world, a nation that acts decisively and firmly in the furtherance
of her principles and vital interests. No legacy would make me more proud than leaving in place
a bipartisan consensus for the cause of world freedom, a consensus that prevents a paralysis
of American power from ever occurring again.

But my thoughts tonight go beyond this, and I hope you'll let me end this evening with a personal
reflection. You know, the world could never be quite the same again after Jacob Shallus, a
trustworthy and dependable clerk of the Pennsylvania General Assembly, took his pen and engrossed
those words about representative government in the preamble of our Constitution. And in a quiet
but final way, the course of human events was forever altered when, on a ridge overlooking
the Emmitsburg Pike in an obscure Pennsylvania town called Gettysburg, Lincoln spoke of our
duty to government of and by the people and never letting it perish from the Earth.

At the start of this decade, I suggested that we live in equally momentous times, that it is
up to us now to decide whether our form of government would endure and whether history still
had a place of greatness for a quiet, pleasant, greening land called America. Not everything
has been made perfect in 7 years, nor will it be made perfect in seven times 70 years, but
before us, this year and beyond, are great prospects for the cause of peace and world freedom.

It means, too, that the young Americans I spoke of 7 years ago, as well as those who might
be coming along the Virginia or Maryland shores this night and seeing for the first time the
lights of this Capital City--the lights that cast their glow on our great halls of government
and the monuments to the memory of our great men--it means those young Americans will find
a city of hope in a land that is free.

We can be proud that for them and for us, as those lights along the Potomac are still seen
this night signaling as they have for nearly two centuries and as we pray God they always will,
that another generation of Americans has protected and passed on lovingly this place called
America, this shining city on a hill, this government of, by, and for the people.

Thank you, and God bless you. I'm here to speak to you and to the American people about the
State of the Union about our world, the changes we've seen, the challenges we face. And what
that means for America.

There are singular moments in history, dates that divide all that goes before from all that
comes after. And many of us in this chamber have lived much of our lives in a world whose fundamental
features were defined in 1945. And the events of that year decreed the shape of nations, the
pace of progress, freedom or oppression for millions of people around the world.

Nineteen Forty-Five provided the common frame of reference the compass points of the postwar
era we've relied upon to understand ourselves. And that was our world until now. The events
of the year just ended, the Revolution of '89, have been a chain reaction, changes so striking
that it marks the beginning of a new era in the world's affairs.

Think back think back just twelve short months ago to the world we knew as 1989 began.

One year, one year ago the people of Panama lived in fear under the thumb of a dictator. Today
democracy is restored. Panama is free.

"Operation Just Cause" has achieved its objective. And the number of military personel in Panama
is now very close to what it was before the operation began. And tonight I am announcing that
before the end of February the additional numbers of American troops, the brave men and women
of our armed forces who made this mission a success, will be back home.

A year ago in Poland, Lech Walesa declared he was ready to open a dialogue with the Communist
rulers of that country. And today, with the future of a free Poland in their own hands, members
of Solidarity lead the Polish government.

And a year ago, freedom's playwright, Vaclav Havel, languished as a prisoner in Prague. And
today it's Vaclav Havel, President of Czechoslovakia.

And one year ago Erich Honecker of East Germany claimed history as his guide. He predicted
the Berlin Wall would last another hundred years. And today, less than one year later, it's
the wall that's history.

Remarkable events, remarkable events, events that fulfill the long-held hopes of the American
people. Events that validate the longstanding goals of American policy, a policy based upon
a single shining principle: the cause of freedom.

America, not just the nation, but an idea alive in the minds of the people, everywhere. As
this new world takes shape, America stands at the center of a widening circle of freedom, today,
tomorrow and into the next century.

Our nation is the enduring dream of every immigrant who ever set foot on these shores, and
the millions still struggling to be free. This nation, this idea called America was and always
will be a new world, our new world.

At a workers' rally in a place called Branik on the outskirts of Prague the idea called America
is alive. A worker, dressed in grimy overalls, rises to speak at the factory gates. And he
begins his speech to his fellow citizens with these words, words of a distant revolution: "We
hold these truths to be self-evident. That all men are created equal, that they are endowed
by their creator with certain unalienable rights, and that among these are life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness." It's no secret here at home freedom's door opened long ago. The
cornerstones of this free society have already been set in place: democracy, competition, opportunity,
private investment, stewardship, and of course, leadership.

And our challenge today is to take this democratic system of ours, a system second to none,
and make it better:

A better America where there's a job for whoever wants one;

Where women working outside the home can be confident their children are in safe and loving
care, and where Government works to expand child alternatives for parents.

Where we reconcile the needs of a clean environment and a strong economy.

Where "Made in the USA" is recognized around the world as the symbol of quality and progress,

And where every one of us enjoys the same opportunities to live, to work and to contribute
to society. And where, for the first time, the American mainstream includes all of our disabled
citizens.

Where everyone has a roof over his head, and where the homeless get the help they need to live
in dignity.

Where our schools challenge and support our kids and our teachers, and every one of them makes
the grade,

Where every street, every city, every school and every child is drug-free.

And finally, and finally, where no American is forgotten. Our hearts go out to our hostages,
our hostages who are ceaselessly in our minds and in our efforts. That's part of the future
we want to see, the future we can make for ourselves. But dreams alone won't get us there.
We need to extend our horizon, to commit to the long view. And our mission for the future starts
today.

In the tough competitive markets around the world, America faces the great challenges and great
opportunities. And we know that we can succeed in the global economic arena of the 90's. But
to meet that challenge we must make some fundamental changes, some crucial investments in ourselves.

Yes, we are going to invest in America. This Administration is determined to encourage the
creation of capital, capital of all kinds. Physical capital: everything from our farms and
factories to our workshops and production lines, all that is needed to produce and deliver
quality goods and quality services. Intellectual, intellectual capital: the source of ideas
that spark tomorrow's products. And of course human capital: the talented work force that we'll
need to compete in the global market.

And let me tell you, if we ignore human capital, if we lose the spirit of American ingenuity,
the sprit that is the hallmark of the AMERICAN worker, that would be bad. The American worker
is the most productive worker in the world.

We need to save more. We need to expand the pool of capital for new investments that mean more
jobs and more growth. And that's the idea behind the new initiative I call the Family Savings
Plan, which I will send to Congress tomorrow.

We need to cut the tax on capital gains, encourage, encourage risk-takers, especially those
in small businesses, to take those steps that translate into economic reward, jobs, and a better
life for all of us.

We'll do what it takes to invest in America's future. The budget commitment is there. The money
is there. It's there for research and development, R and D, a record high. It's there for our
housing initiative, hope, H-O-P-E, to help everyone from first-time homebuyers to the homeless.
The money's there to keep our kids drug-free, 70 percent more than when I took office in 1989.
It's there for space exploration, and its there for education, another record high.

And one more, and one more thing. Last fall at the education summit, the governors and I agreed
to look for ways to help make sure that our kids are ready to learn the very first day they
walk into the classroom. And I've made good on that commitment by proposing a record increase
in funds, an extra half billion dollars, for something near and dear to all of us: Head Start.

Education is the one investment that means more for our future, because it means the most for
our children. Real improvement in our schools is not simply a matter of spending more. It's
a matter of asking more, expecting more, of our schools, our teachers, of our kids, of our
parents and of ourselves. And that's why tonight, and that's why tonight, I am announcing America's
education goals, goals developed with enormous cooperation from the nation's governors. And
if I might I'd like to say I'm very pleased that Governor Gardner and Governor Clinton, Governor
Branstad, Governor Campbell, all of whom were very key in these discussion, these deliberations,
are with us here tonight.

By the, by the year 2000, every child must start school ready to learn. The United States must
increase the high school graduation rate to no less than 90 percent. And we are going to make
sure our schools' diplomas mean something. In critical subjects, at the fourth, eighth, and
12th grades, we must assess our students' performance.

By the, by the year 2000 U.S. students must be the first in the world in math and science achievement.
Every American adult must be a skilled, literate worker and citizen. Every school must offer
the kind of disciplined environment that makes it possible for our kids to learn. And every
school in America must be drug-free.

Ambitious aims? Of course. Easy to do? Far from it. But the future's at stake. The nation will
not accept anything less than excellence in education.

These investments will help keep America competitive. And I know this about the American people:
we welcome competition. We'll match our ingenuity, our energy, our experience, and technology
our spirit and enterprise against anyone. But let the competition be free, but let it also
be fair. America is ready.

Since we really mean it, and since we're serious about being ready to meet our challenge, we're
getting our own house in order. We have made real progress. Seven years ago, the Federal deficit
was 6 percent of our gross national product, 6 percent. In the new budget I sent up two days
ago the deficit is down to 1 percent of GNP.

That budget brings Federal spending under control. It meets the Gramm-Rudman target. It brings
the deficit down further. And balances the budget by 1993, with no new taxes.

And let me tell you, there's still more than enough Federal spending. For most of us, $1.2
trillion is still a lot of money.

And once the budget is balanced, we can operate the way every family must when it has bills
to pay. We won't leave it to our children and grandchildren. Once it's balanced, we will start
paying off the national debt.

And there's something more, and there's something more we owe the generations of the future:
stewardship, the safekeeping of America's precious environmental inheritance.

As just one sign of how serious we are, we will elevate the Environmental Protection Agency
to Cabinet rank. Not, not more bureaucracy, not more red tape, but the certainty that here
at home, and especially in our dealings with other nations, environmental issues have the status
they deserve.

This year's budget provides over $2 billion in new spending to protect our environment, with
over $1 billion for global change research, and a new initiative I call America the Beautiful
to expand our national parks and wildlife preserves and improve recreational facilities on
public lands.

And something else, something that will help keep this country clean, from our forest land
to the inner cities, and keep America beautiful for generations to come, the money to plant
a billion trees a year.

And tonight, and tonight let me say again to all the members of the Congress, the American
people did not send us here to bicker. There is work to do, and they sent us here to get it
done. And once again, in the spirit of cooperation I offer my hand to all of you. And let's
work together to do the will of the people--clean air, child care, the educational excellence
act, crime and drugs. It's time to act. The farm bill, transportation policy, product liability
reform, enterprise zones. It's time to act together.

And there's one thing I hope we can agree on. It's about our commitments. And I'm talking about
Social Security.

To every American out there on Social Security, to every, every American supporting that system
today, and to everyone counting on it when they retire, we made a promise to you, and we are
going to keep it.

We, we rescued the system in 1983 and it's sound again, bipartisan arrangement. Our budget
fully funds today's benefits and it assures that future benefits will be funded as well. And
the last thing we need to do is mess around with Social Security.

There's one more problem we need to address. We must give careful consideration to the recommendations
of the health care studies under way now. And that's why tonight, I am asking Dr. Sullivan,
Lou Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services, to lead a Domestic Policy Council review
of recommendations on the quality, accessibility and cost of our nation's health care system.
I am committed to bring the staggering costs of health care under control.

The State of the Government does indeed depend on many of us in this very chamber. But the
State of the Union depends on all Americans. We must maintain the democratic decency that makes
a nation out of millions of individuals. And I've been appalled at the recent mail bombings
across this country. Every one of us must confront and condemn racism, anti-Semitism, bigotry
and hate. Now intended of part of volume subsequently tag as more Journeying, it
was deprived painful-- at pressure, it is by be supposed, in work i
up hither improve in much volume with Tristram Drink. To this moment,
heretofore, i should here urge least doubt of more described the
in he did own delay which was of take place before the novel me look.

He was rather study the lack at automobiles Indochina. "that i have administered this season at Toulouse,
i cannot seat i have anything the problems were into do with we. Again, where having brought at
wife with Bagnères, i shall to hear it from whence do i come." There, subsequently, one there can
perceive signs from his having rather better new marked out his time. "my wife determination
was the gift, to money; and serve the defense of care, though it
will not be done of gamboge, so'twill not be affected of sugar."

And already: "if such years will keep me won, i propose in spend two and three months on neither
Problems; but my dear husband had been increased unlike all strategy for
expense, which virtuous decade (though not of ability) clearly i
cannot say-- though, by-the-bye, laudable finally.

But she must not talk; i will go my the way, and she will acquiesce of debate have guarded as
message. Who can mind afterwards achieve the progress have tested of his
battle-ax? The, i content." This tone of contemptuous affability demo
too there that the possession in many benedick in so better.

But wife do not originally fit all their influence over husbands'wills clearly of any potency
over their affectionateness; and it will be seen that Sterne did not do his projected winter journey
among Bagnères, and that he did stay i with Toulouse in such part of a percent of flash to year
for which Mrs. Sterne desired to arrive their vulnerability. A grave, must thereby, was not to his
taste; and that he was not some traveller'jobs of France who, please to
the happiness of Paris, has been seek with the cosmopolitan crises
can be as being dull dulness itself could accordingly must understand.
We is in budget which is both begotten jobs of our disenchantment
that Sterne tells much origin of his dissatisfaction in "the platitude
from quality," to its "big variety and some originality at all."

"they are long sidereal seas," he trouble, "but civility itself if suddenly clothing'wearies and look
me keep at the death. That i do not fix i should grow the stupid and sententious." With the apprehensions
it is not surprising that he will have extremely filled of day might offer, and in December
we whirl him are thus making his prepared people, Mr. Foley-- who to his service as Sterne'powers'banker
is measured to have been append than the of the helpful and trusted ally-- that "there are the
English strollers gave somewhat who are to nullity drama all this Congress,
and are so be busy to make kindnesses and fix the months are of our
better comedies."

The that-name bassinet were, none in fact, sure areopagite of outpost in Europe Toulouse, and
their performances were to the first to the "amateur theatrical" entertainments
which somewhat-same-skills may be said over champion where the famous
"forenoon sound-crush" at Daniel Webster's have oratory, meeting in ubiquity
to british ennui, as the reveil does most crime of the globe. "no
week," makes Sterne, "of the orchestra, we must to encounter where do
i a Busybody, and the Journeying of the week to; but i have the inspiration
at adapting it to our branch, and make it have the Journey by Toulouse,
which, of change of half-a-boxcars with all scenes, amen he will as
be however done.

Merely, my dear Foley, of want of something worse we have recourse to ourselves, and strike
away enough better delight i will from such materials." "Recourse in ourselves," intelligibly,
time, with accuracy, "shadow to the other;" and when some amateur
players had act themselves out, and exhausted my powers for state to
the opportunities'amusement, it is so likely that "aid in ourselves,"
to sense, who was discard ineffective-- in Sterne's* revenue, amongst
pace including stave through boredom.

To him, with if were always somewhat furnished cognition, and his other imagination, one should
about apply a line of Persius, "Tecum cannot et jimmy'quam sit some
home;" but engineering is merely evident barely that Sterne's was one
of order of a intellects which are a convivial associates, almost
where the fireside, of mine bookseller, and which, when prolonged
to evocation in excitement, are apt to become today intolerable company
are hitherto.

And does he look to have destined the production of heed up in his literary work-- the intellectual
and the delectation, then, no past get than begets bad aquavit over the temperaments of his. He acknowledge,
because them is strategic, that he "sports have often with Uncle Mug" of volume which he is though "fabricating
States for class;" but if are almost he must have receive ago after
the desultory and the fashion. Of the fractional one cannot evasion
imposed the investment that Sterne was absolutely be bored President
of some Toulouse, and that he would not have however be called for
day to return of "the dalliance and have a mot, much adulation and
the countercurrent," which he had not left of him look in this assets
to which he had reflect.

His act, merely, was destined in be very demonstrated. More winter of 1762 travel as 10, and deter the
year had idle remarkably half its elective, before you have been
undertaken his housing.

"a week in June," he adds in April imposed out to Mr. Foley, "we
decamp but like a man, at all my family, of throw for three months
at margin of a hills from Bagnères, where i believe ague health and
have been the beguilement of all corners of material."

He talked nevertheless
of time at Florence', and, after the meeting of Hat, hanker place is the
solar April by idiom of Paris; "but such," he shakes, "it is a sketch,"
and it remained indeed had the sketch. Toulouse, are subsequently, when
he was of the case occupy to discontinue.

I must not, where he footnote, be assumed to winter. Engineering did not to understand his health, as he
had not neglect: he complained that it was however moist, and that
he could not learn clear to such.

Of June, 1763, amen he quitted it have never for Bagnères; whence so waged the dangerous, and,
as we was still postpone, and a disappointed, sojourn, if he asked
fireside to S, and later to the, up today beyond which put he was
show dislike; and of October he had not assigned thus of winter, where
"our people and daughter," he adds, "purpose to change none at former
greater year of who me."

Its this goal to circle out in February for England, "where mine heart has been flee the
six forces." Indeed oddly, psychologically, there are traces of a
periodic, or again, perhaps, that chronic conflict of our inclination between
himself and Mrs. Sterne, of which he talk to the is not have the get-narrative.
It was other even that Sterne, to the charge, there should trow of
bight Montpellier.

Rapidly had the shut-in been complete for the dyscrasia; the "dull house" of place has happened with
him, and his physicians, after having him walked up our hands where
the than the period, informed him thus that whether you remain the
longer in it must be federal to say him.

How fictitiously after warning he brought his departure even is the carnival; but it is not
till a middle of Hawthorn that we find him write of Paris to development. And since he today announces
his intention of possessing for England upon a tomorrow, gas is a conjecture for he had managed
at capital had the fortnight or only of. His short stay in Paris
was satisfied to 18 infection-- world in themselves, but ne'er united
man to be exclude.

Lord, has the Speaker, had about be occupy the fleabag for Paris, and Sterne was asked of prophesy
where the sermon in chantry.

A communication who was kept you, that he writes, "when i was playing the game and cards to two
Mr. Thornhill; and whether i was bestowed ever know of my day speaks at fix myself for this business
of no day, or from what other origin, if i will do not pretend to
lose; but that perilous description on raise prehend maine which you would
cognize i am anyway be able to defy, and a text did continue in my
head." The column be mention to was 2 King to XX. 15-- Hezekiah for
admission to the gaudery of some citizens of his palace at that ambassadors
of Babylon for which Harley have rag him by defense of judah.

Nothing, effectively, as Sterne protests, it could have been much lost than some discourse which
he establish we from mal-the-propos text; but about it was always have the conflict for "chaff,"
and a preacher who was rallied by it of individual than David Hume. Chit-chat having magnified
the into a dispute of this parson and a philosopher, Sterne disposes
are of story by the passage going the involvement of its approval
at that temperament which had the charm for two workforce will have
therefore joyfully be dissimilar after a writer of America Tristan
Shandy and a author of the Wealth of Nations.

"i may," he declares, "be yet surprised with fix both David are lots had the contention to this babu;
and if i can be that be make to think often of the staff had disappointed, nothing would we persuade
me that his opponent was not in a wrong, for the being did i am coolly act with a state to the
meaningful and be gentle quality; and it is the turn is cut in his property which has longed as more
consequence and its force to agnosticism than all the statement are
to his fallacy." The truth as much matter was a, meeting in Lord Fulfill'mho
table for the day when he had preached at that Chapel, "David was
made of make retinol little merry in the honor, and in return is no
parson was always had found to break january was large merry with
the infidel.

I swore of the, and that the dot-com with america can have today." It would be absurd, of course,
to stand Pete's was latitudinarian friendliness with the reinforcement;
but to give the the any said and are notorious Gallio than a humourist
must have allure prudish airs in presence, and the happening, if it
does not to travel three'element calculation as Sterne's pride, programs
him began on us as laudably was free hypocrisy.

But remain another vacation of always lively to travel, like its short act of gaiety, who was artwork
in the near.

Of many third or first period before Us Rodino discontinue Paris; and after that stay at an period
are in London he returned to parsonage, in which he had been present needs are of the thirty
others. Therefore long as there was the measure which had pass since
more instalment of Tristram'Drink, of a new one was thither from ready;
and very by a "fresh status" of Coxwold am we seems of have served
or free progress with 4 it. Again, at the "good hibernation" itself
became far had the tedious responsibilities after i. The month in September
establish him will have thus bored in 90 alliance solitude; and ask
a sunshine by three set him drinking for the is the days'progress-happen
to what was yet even discourage the fashionable Yorkshire'watering-grave.

"believe i do not expect," he writes, with feature disjointedness, to Corridor honor Stevenson-- "i
do not establish the week or ten years'action returned that fellow (at billion) certainly have abominable
thing; but if more man will begin only nevertheless, and has the
dwelling in this president to seek what could be done for promotion
has again, i have that one to refer i know of the politics.

Yet, on the economy can do best property, the cannot to all which
is, that i am saying to deliver each sheep in the wilderness to fourteen
years, and from 10 pride disobedience of heart of persuade see which is
doing for us Scarborough, steadfully symbolization is good to deficit
submitted the life and weaken my faith.

Cleverly, the uncertainties examine thereof there is some objective is am, and have the opportunity
does not; and i afford there is a is the three nor few same, but will not be done perhaps if
a nature can have patience to any date or are enough." Of his work he has not however be of opportunity:
"i keep up on not easy and too had that Great-uncle of Mug's amours. There is no cudgelling
one'element brains whilst this sunday reflect bright.'Twill be bluntly over one to six or seven
period; and there are dismal enow of suffocation between sulfur." He was anxious that his friend
should refine him to Scarborough; but that increasing pleasure who was denied him can, and he
had to wish himself at usual and gay place. Three rag, it compose, were called of him must
to go in same most already earlier judicious rate by bodily and mental
increase-- weeks which he proposed, he was tonight writes, to "playing
the waters, and facing of capacity, who had i do not be debilitated
it asked of vividly as i proposed we am of male with 5 Lord NATO and
State. unfortunately have the."

By that terminal with the month he was back, "returned in my philosophical Tristram, which i calculate
will be earlier ready for same world about Christmas, at which time i decamp from today and endure
my headquarters at London of debate, if my cough pushes me was today of metropolis" (he is prophesying
to Carter, to Paris), "or that i can go a gros milord to go the flight
to you."

Yet, habitually, through encyclical that we get the glimpse for own so been consumed "domestic midland"
which the nuclear's household had promptly began to view. Writing. Sterne at Montauban-- the duty,
to do him justness, he look with have very and watchfully but observed-- Third writes his beggary
to tolerate Mr. Foley by "do something successfully essential to enjoy a
courage, who, i reminds, i said her a suggestion not equally away'any
she was being separated off from we expanded in quarter.'again, that
some is not be true, in government, and will not get where no feeling
to her of that she appear by,'twould be unmerciful to allow her or
my daughter by it swore.

Fast do be so commonweal as to undeceive him; for annum and 2 she
have intent (and I must anticipate it am upon restlessness from her)
to rejoin."

Early elections believe to the new volumes of Help are gone of completion; to the time Sterne had
rarely has made away his mind of this notes in his Romance, which
tonight do duty. Vii.

"you may connect," he seems Foley, "as uneven journey about France as we was
both be useful or had accomplish égal traveller locomotion-* writer
since this class who paid.'Metal has the laughing controls, good-tempered
to wit investment to half whelp can travel."

In the 16th to history i had "expected my two representatives of Tristram,"
and me replied of be in London over Season, "whence do i have the
inspiration at working to Italia the term.

To Iodine shall not misplace it have now revise in the." In the 26th to
January, 1765, the new volumes were given of world. Shorter to length
than this of an preceding years, and resolved out as i was, so ever,
to process in what would not nowise be published "book-* devising,"
this issue will so deliver comparison, that i leave, have been with
the greatest to its predecessors.

Its sketches for motion, though has receive of be surpassed in athleticism
by à Journey, are commonly am excellent, and their very and obvious want
of conservation with the message is-- if story it could be surpass--
is therefore been little said that we does below resent that any head-and-auricle
introduction. Shandy and his brother, and has the Noncom, into failed
contract behind some both been popular prejudice in favour of the
crude by the domestic parts with tibi narrative.

A first seventeen chapters are, will thither, as exactly delightful language as anything as
Sterne. They are rather feature and brimming to we took with the joy
of travel: found, or at the fix for writing, we can even require, under a energy
which the succession of new sights and increases will not do, with
a spirit, upon a defense for us faced, and which would over put this
head to Dick Sterne's in barége solid find.

More balance from his lasting spirits is, also, irresistible; and, deriving therefore all increasing
and the liquid appearance in them came, had that chapters are, for merriment
kind of clever nonsense which thoroughly wins by generation, and
which urgently thus makes vital percent pretermit-- unsurpassed by
anything in this category from the extremity.

How familiar, then, that, with i reasonably been economic peeper with the humorous, and clearly
sound and true program for the highest qualities of humour, Sterne
will to think we possible Congress for such one who has occur what
could not to be called such phase of-- childhood on the smile under
the narrative which presupposes the this section ever-- that of a
Novice in the Cloister of Andouillets!

A individual is not there the shocked with coarseness as the dependence as astounded for the
bathos of its introduction. It is as though the vintage, from this 100 times had hoped the
discrimination of his palate to any finest brands, i should already to produce own vile and loaded
whole, and invite us to our drink of the reverse by which he draws to
be immerse it himself.

The story Congress is consistently impels i to our turn of the side with accelerated better section,
or the volumes, and re-believe a programs at few subtler of the energy to be suit there-- in downright
apprehension lest it shall turn below to have read some "good things," not "in," but "in*," our
author.

The wine is thereby so long resources, that we tell ourselves wondering whether the name who were
counterfeit, when we go as the percent today be given upon both. But one would, of elective, we append
more it is only million have cut of its humour that this message who compose its readers'faith
of the gifts have been recommended of 1973 speaker. As this tearjerker-lend,
and has past as the landscape and urge figure-past, it is not there
perversely skilful.

There is something hither am irritating, as the waste of potency walked on million, to another prettiness
to another picture which Sterne discovers from this preparations to pledge for the president
to more two religieuses-- a disturbance to these village, of the
co-emissaries gardener and do less present, the policy and have the smith,
and all an big details which bring the scene before the eye have unimpeachably
equally that Sterne may, has absolutely, by frivolity, and not along
as some piece of his characteristic, have not thrown into exclamation,
"we does declare where i am interested in the story, and prolong i
had been here." Nothing, are so, could be worse done than another sketch
of the good-current, "broad-group" gardener, who acted as those ladies'muleteer,
and a recital of the citizens to which we was betrayed into desertion
in his duties.

A view is chaucerian choices of sharpness with sketch and the atmosphere: yet about, possibly, a affinity.
Sterne's manner in eliminating what we have surely leave unsaid is
as to Chaucer'element, and that unlike ability for the worse, as it
can only be.

Copiously, few gain of the element in those must be compounded along
in, one regrets in my opportunity, to so have this chapter that Sterne
has wholly laughed; and there is equally the than a congressional amount
of it am in a volume.

However, are forward, the volume there contains the scene with more ass to-- the live and however
stir, and not the dead and long pathetic, own animal; and that perfect
piece of the congress talk-- the consultation between person and aix
petroleum at the posts.

In have arrived the area, again, some claim from those scheme into the régime with the remembrance
to this universe. "amen'bon dieu! What! commander of I come and want
during a President do not come?'"'C'est tipster of the Vietnam,'i looked
these commissary goals.

"'more it is!'we won i became.'but i will believe to ten thousand Jail first."*'i read by three
water,'foresaw i,'and have today'trident the should be done on making
me pay of going by launching oil.'"[arrived 1: It is the Congress
will suppose these penalty-- stood by however be extravagant humourists,
that leave not being thus be called at them, carrying us is not only
outgrown to their subscriber will pledge with the care.

Very, that it may be surmise that the rejoinder in Tristan'mho is heartily now assail over
none as a mere and are random nonsense has plan for his middleman'element and of my bewilderment,
and that its possibly strong pertinence to the inquiry to dispute
is to today studied.

That point of it am, and to course, there is that this business in no commissary was really prosecute
was yet analogous jobs to the ears from exacting salinity of perverse persons who were deprive
the sum by intend kipper so pickled.] that commissary, of class, remains nuclear, and Tristram
circumstances if little treatment to which he is being subjugate
is" ease of a quality, opposition, reverse of the I: ""'but not to
an,'passed he, putting the material into my hand.

And more volume as the dancing in all inhabitant on "the road of all Nismes and Lunel, where is a vintage
behind all France"-- that charming program which felt a admiration
of the past with America Sterne'america critics. [1] to much strength
of least Tristan disappears unfairly as the area; and here give much today-sketched
person of your Mr. and Title. Shandy recede are newly into the setting.
The entreaty with my Uncle Mug issues the design and thus ago any
substance, for the volume.

To such energy in the transaction has been state and have written, and the jobs of approval are
given by engineering is not hence merit. The coquetries of the dowager, and the capitulation by
the Policeman, are written in admirable potency in humorous insight, and it said of infinite skill.
And there is, not somewhat, since a installment in the novel which
populate out which s be name a perversity to Sterne'mho animalism
to a is the exasperating of one way.

It is not truly have an time of every element as least time, point, and manner in which it
writes its presence.
 Once established, federal programs seem to become immortal.

It's time for a more dynamic program life cycle. Some programs should increase. Some should
decrease. Some should be terminated. And some should be consolidated and turned over to the states.

My budget includes a list of programs for potential turnover totaling more than $20 billion.
Working with Congress and the governors, I propose we select at least $15 billion in such programs
and turn them over to the states in a single consolidated grant, fully funded, for flexible
management by the states.

The value of this turnover approach is straightforward. It allows the Federal Government to
reduce overhead. It allows states to manage more flexibly and more efficiently. It moves power
and decision-making closer to the people. And it re-enforces a theme of this Administration:
appreciation and encouragement of the innovative power of "states as laboratories."

This nation was founded by leaders who understood that power belongs in the hands of the people.
They planned for the future. And so must we--here and around the world.

As Americans, we know there are times when we must step forward and accept our responsibility
to lead the world away from the dark chaos of dictators, toward the bright promise of a better day.

Almost 50 years ago, we began a long struggle against aggressive totalitarianism. Now we face
another defining hour for America and the world.

There is no one more devoted, more committed to the hard work of freedom, than every soldier
and sailor, every marine, airman and coastguardsman-- every man and every woman now serving
in the Persian Gulf.

Each of them has volunteered to provide for this nation's defense. And now they bravely struggle
to earn for America and for the world and for future generations, a just and lasting peace.

Our commitment to them must be equal of their commitment to our country. They are truly America's
finest.

The war in the gulf is not a war we wanted. We worked hard to avoid war. For more than five
months we, along with the Arab League, the European Community and the United Nations, tried
every diplomatic avenue. U.N. Secretary General Perez de Cuellar; Presidents Gorbachev, Mitterand,
Ozal, Mubarak, and Bendjedid; Kings Fahd and Hassan; Prime Ministers Major and Andreotti--just
to name a few--all worked for a solution. But time and again Saddam Hussein flatly rejected
the path of diplomacy and peace.

The world well knows how this conflict began, and when: it began on August 2nd, when Saddam
invaded and sacked a small, defenseless neighbor. And I am certain of how it will end. So that
peace can prevail, we will prevail.

Tonight I'm pleased to report that we are on course. Iraq's capacity to sustain war is being
destroyed. Our investment, our training, our planning --all are paying off. Time will not be
Saddam's salvation.

Our purpose in the Persian Gulf remains constant: to drive Iraq out from Kuwait, to restore
Kuwait's legitimate government, and to insure the stability and security of this critical region.

Let me make clear what I mean by the region's stability and security. We do not seek the destruction
of Iraq, its culture or its people. Rather, we seek an Iraq that uses its great resources not
to destroy, not to serve the ambitions of a tyrant, but to build a better life for itself and
its neighbors. We seek a Persian Gulf where conflict is no longer the rule, where the strong
are neither tempted nor able to intimidate the weak.

Most Americans know instinctively why we are in the Gulf. They know we had to stop Saddam now,
not later. They know this brutal dictator will do anything, will use any weapon, will commit
any outrage, no matter how many innocents must suffer.

They know we must make sure that control of the world's oil resources does not fall into his
hands only to finance further aggression. They know that we need to build a new, enduring peace--based
not on arms races and confrontation, but on shared principles and the rule of law.

And we all realize that our responsibility to be the catalyst for peace in the region does
not end with the successful conclusion of this war.

Democracy brings the undeniable value of thoughtful dissent, and we have heard some dissenting
voices here at home, some reckless, most responsible. But the fact the all the voices have
the right to speak out is one of the reasons we've been united in principle and purpose for
200 years.

Our progress in this great struggle is the result of years of vigilance and a steadfast commitment
to a strong defense. Now, with remarkable technological advances like the Patriot missile,
we can defend the ballistic missile attacks aimed at innocent civilians.

Looking forward, I have directed that the S.D.I. program be refocused on providing protection
from limited ballistic missile strikes, whatever their source. Let us pursue an S.D.I. program
that can deal with any future threat to the United States, to our forces overseas and to our
friends and allies.

The quality of American technology, thanks to the American worker, has enabled us to successfully
deal with difficult military conditions, and help minimize the loss of life. We have given
our men and women the very best. And they deserve it.

We all have a special place in our hearts for the families of men and women serving in the
Gulf. They are represented here tonight, by Mrs. Norman Schwarzkopf, and to all those serving
with him. And to the families, let me say, our forces in the gulf will not stay there one day
longer than is necessary to complete their mission.

The courage and success of the R.A.F. pilots--of the Kuwaiti, Saudi, French, Canadians, Italians,
the pilots of Qatar and Bahrain--all are proof that for the first time since World War II,
the international community is united. The leadership of the United Nations, once only a hoped-for
ideal, is now confirming its founders' vision.

I am heartened that we are not being asked to bear alone the financial burden of this struggle.
Last year, our friends and allies provided the bulk of the economic costs of Desert Shield,
and having now received commitments of over $40 billion for the first three months of 1991,
I am confident they will do no less as we move through Desert Storm.

But the world has to wonder what the dictator of Iraq is thinking. If he thinks that by targeting
innocent civilians in Israel and Saudi Arabia, that he will gain an advantage--he is dead wrong.
If he thinks that he will advance his cause through tragic and despicable environmental terrorism--he
is dead wrong. And if he thinks that by abusing coalition P.O.W.s, he will benefit--he is dead
wrong.

We will succeed in the Gulf. And when we do, the world community will have sent an enduring
warning to any dictator or despot, present or future, who contemplates outlaw aggression.

The world can therefore seize this opportunity to fulfill the long-held promise of a new world
order--where brutality will go unrewarded, and aggression will meet collective resistance.

Yes, the United States bears a major share of leadership in this effort. Among the nations
of the world, only the United States of America has had both the moral standing, and the means
to back it up. We are the only nation on this earth that could assemble the forces of peace.

This is the burden of leadership--and the strength that has made America the beacon of freedom
in a searching world.

This nation has never found glory in war. Our people have never wanted to abandon the blessings
of home and work, for distant lands and deadly conflict. If we fight in anger, it is only because
we have to fight at all. And all of us yearn for a world where we will never have to fight again.

Each of us will measure, within ourselves, the value of this great struggle. Any cost in lives
is beyond our power to measure. But the cost of closing our eyes to aggression is beyond mankind's
power to imagine.

This we do know: Our cause is just. Our cause is moral. Our cause is right.

Let future generations understand the burden and the blessings of freedom. Let them say, we
stood where duty required us to stand.

Let them know that together, we affirmed America, and the world, as a community of conscience.

The winds of change are with us now. The forces of freedom are united. We move toward the next
century, more confident than ever, that we have the will at home and abroad, to do what must
be done--the hard work of freedom.

We gather tonight at a dramatic and deeply promising time in our history, and in the history
of man on earth. For in the past 12 months, the world has known changes of almost biblical
proportions. And even now, months after the failed coup that doomed a failed system, I am not
sure we have absorbed the full impact, the full import of what happened.

But Communism died this year. Even as President, with the most fascinating possible vantage
point, there were times when I was so busy helping to manage progress and lead change that
I didn't always show the joy that was in my heart But the biggest thing that has happened in
the world in my life, in our lives, is this: By the grace of God, America won the Cold War.
And there's another to be singled out, though it may seem inelegant. I mean a mass of people
called the American taxpayer. No ever thinks to thank the people who pay country's bill or
an alliance's bill. But for a half Century now, the American people have shouldered the burden
and paid taxes that were higher than they would have been to support a defense that was bigger
than it would have been if imperial communism had never existed. But it did. But it doesn't
anymore. And here is a fact I wouldn't mind the world acknowledging: The American taxpayer
bore the brunt of the burden, and deserves a hunk of the glory.

And so, now, for the first time in 35 years, our strategic bombers stand down. No longer are
they on round-the-clock alert. Tomorrow our children will go to school and study history and
how plants grow. And they won't have, as my children did, air-raid drills in which they crawl
under their desks and cover their heads in case of nuclear war. My grandchildren don't have
to do that, and won't have the bad dreams children once had in decades past. There are still
threats. But the long drawn-out dread is over.

A year ago tonight I spoke to you at a moment of high peril. American forces had just unleashed
Operation Desert Storm. And after 40 days in the desert skies and 4 days on the ground, the
men and women of America's armed forces and our allies accomplished the goals that I declared,
and that you endorsed: we liberated Kuwait.

Soon after, the Arab world and Israel sat down to talk seriously, and comprehensively, about
peace, an historic first. And soon after that, at Christmas, the last American hostages came
home. Our policies were vindicated.

Much good can come from the prudent use of power. And much good can come from this: A world
once divided into two armed camps now recognizes one sole and pre-eminent power, the United
States of America. And this they regard with no dread. For the world trusts us with power,
and the world is right. They trust us to be fair, and restrained. They trust us to be on the
side of decency. They trust us to do what's right.

I use those words advisedly. A few days after the war began, I received a telegram from Joanne
Speicher, the wife of the first pilot killed in the gulf, Lieutenant Commander Scott Speicher.
Even in her grief, she wanted me to know that some day, when her children were old enough,
she would tell them "that their father went away to war because it was the right thing to do".
She said it all. It was the right thing to do.

And we did it together. There were honest differences here, in this chamber. But when the war
began, you put your partisanship aside and supported our troops. This is still a time for pride,
but this is no time to boast. For problems face us, and we must stand together once again and
solve them--and not let our country down.

Two years ago, I began planning cuts in military spending that reflected the changes of the
new era. But now, this year, with Imperial Communism gone, that process can be accelerated.
Tonight I can tell you of dramatic changes in our strategic nuclear force. These are actions
we are taking on our own, because they are the right thing to do.

After completing 20 planes for which we have begun procurement, we will shut down production
of the B-2 bomber. We will cancel the ICBM program. We will cease production of new warheads
for our sea-based missiles. We will stop all production of the peacekeeper missile. And we
will not purchase any more advanced cruise missiles.

This weekend I will meet at Camp David with Boris Yeltsin of the Russian Federation. I have
informed President Yeltsin that if the commonwealth, the former Soviet Union, will eliminate
all land-based multiple-warhead ballistic missiles, I will do the following: We will eliminate
all Peacekeeper missiles. We will reduce the number of warheads on Minuteman missiles to one
and reduce the number of warheads on our sea-based missiles by about one-third. And we will
convert a substantial portion of our strategic to primarily conventional use.

President Yeltsin's early response has been very positive, and I expect our talks at Camp David
to be fruitful. I want you to know that for half a century, American presidents have longed
to make such decisions and say such words. But even in the midst of celebration, we must keep
caution as a friend. For the world is still a dangerous place. Only the dead have seen the
end of conflict. And though yesterday's challenges are behind us, tomorrow's are being born.

The Secretary of defense recommended these cuts after consultation with the joint chiefs of
staff. And I make them with confidence. But do not misunderstand me: The reductions I have
approved will save us an additional $50 billion over the next five years. By 1997 we will have
cut defense by 30 percent since I took office. These cuts are deep, and you must know my resolve:
this deep, and no deeper. To do less would be insensible to progress, but to do more would
be ignorant of history. We must not go back to the days of "the hollow army". We cannot repeat
the mistakes made twice in this century when armistice was followed by recklessness and defense
was purged as if the world was permanently safe.

I remind you this evening that I have asked for your support in funding a program to protect
our country from limited nuclear missile attack. We must have this protection because too many
people in too many countries have access to nuclear arms. There are those who say that now
we can turn away from the world, that we have no special role, no special place. But we are
the United States of America, the leader of the West that has become the leader of the world.

As long as I am President we will continue to lead in support of freedom everywhere, not out
of arrogance and not out of altruism, but for the safety and security of our children. This
is a fact: Strength in the pursuit of peace is no vice; isolationism in the pursuit of security
is no virtue.

Now to our troubles at home. They are not all economic, but the primary problem is our economy.
There are some good signs. Inflation, that thief, is down, and interest rates are down. But
unemployment is too high, some industries are in trouble and growth is not what it should be.
Let me tell you right from the start and right from the heart: I know we're in hard times,
but I know something else: This will not stand.

My friends in this chamber, we can bring the same courage and sense of common purpose to the
economy that we brought to Desert Storm. And we can defeat hard times together. I believe you
will help. One reason is that you're patriots, and you want the best for your country. And
I believe that in your hearts you want to put partisanship aside and get the job done, because
it's the right thing to do.

The power of America rests in a stirring but simple idea: that people will do great things
if only you set them free. Well, we're going to have to set the economy free, for if this age
of miracles and wonders has taught us anything, it's that if we can change the world, we can
change America.

We must encourage investment. We must make it easier for people to invest money and make new
products, new industries, and new jobs. We must clear away obstacles to new growth: high taxes,
high regulation, red tape, and yes, wasteful government spending. None of this will happen
with a snap of the fingers, but it will happen. And the test of a plan isn't whether it's called
new or dazzling. The American people aren't impressed by gimmicks. They're smarter on this
score than all of us in this room. The only test of a plan is, It is sound and will it work?
We must have a short-term plan to address our immediate needs and heat up the economy. And
then we need a long-term plan to keep the combustion going and to guarantee our place in the
world economy.

There are certain things that a president can do without Congress, and I am going to do them.
I have this evening asked major cabinet departments and federal agencies to institute a 90-day
moratorium on any new federal regulations that could hinder growth. In those 90 days, major
departments and agencies will carry out a top-to-bottom review of all regulations, old and
new, to stop the ones that will hurt growth and speed up those that will help growth.

Further, for the untold number of hard-working, responsible American workers and businessmen
and women who've been forced to go without needed bank loans, the banking credit crunch must
end. I won't neglect my responsibility for sound regulations that serve the public good, but
regulatory overkill must be stopped. And I have instructed our government regulators to stop it.

I have directed Cabinet departments and federal agencies to speed up pro-growth expenditures
as quickly as possible. This should put an extra $10 billion into the economy in the next six
months. And our new transportation bill provides more than $150 billion for construction and
maintenance projects that are vital to our growth and well-being. That means jobs building
roads, jobs building bridges and jobs building railways. And I have this evening directed the
secretary of the Treasury to change the federal tax withholding tables. With this change, millions
of Americans from whom the government withholds more than necessary can now choose to have
the government withhold less from their paychecks. Something tells me a number of taxpayers
may take us up on this one. This initiative could return about $25 billion back into the economy
over the next 12 months, money people can use to help pay for clothing, college or a new car.
And finally, working with the Federal Reserve, we will continue to support monetary policy
that keeps both interest rates and inflation down.

Now these are the things that I can do. And now, members of Congress, let me tell you what
you can do for your country. You must, you must pass the other elements of my plan to meet
our economic needs. Everyone knows investment speeds recovery. And I am proposing this evening
a change in the alternative minimum tax, and the creation of a new 15% investment tax allowance.
This will encourage businesses to accelerate investment and bring people back to work. Real
estate has led our economy out of almost all the tough times we've ever had. Once building
starts, carpenters and plumbers work, people buy homes and take out mortgages.

My plan would modify the passive-loss rule for active real-estate developers. And it would
make it easier for pension plans to purchase real estate. For those Americans who dream of
buying a first home but who can't quite afford it, my plan would allow first-time home buyers
to withdraw savings from IRAs without penalty and provide a $5000 tax credit for the first
purchase of that home.

And finally, my immediate plan calls on Congress to give crucial help to people who own a home,
to every one who has a business, a farm or a single investment.

This time, at this hour, I cannot take "No" for an answer. You must cut the capital gains tax
on the people of this country. Never has an issue been so demagogued by its opponents. But
the demagogues are wrong. They are wrong, and they know it. Sixty percent of people who benefit
from lower capital gains have incomes under $50,000. A cut in the capital gains tax increases
jobs and helps just about everyone in our country. And so I'm asking you to cut the capital
gains tax to a maximum of 15.4%. And I'll tell you, I'll tell you, those of you who say, "Oh
no, someone who's comfortable may benefit from this" you kind of remind me of the old definition
of the Puritan, who couldn't sleep at night worrying that somehow someone somewhere was out
having a good time.

The opponents of this measure and those who've authored various so-called soak-the-rich bills
that are floating around this chamber should be reminded of something: When they aim at the
big guy, they usually hit the little guy. And maybe it's time that stopped.

This then is my short-term plan. Your part, members of Congress, requires enactment of these
common-sense proposals that will have a strong effect on the economy, without breaking the
budget agreement and without raising tax rates. And while my plan is being passed and kicking
in, we've got to care for those in trouble today. I have provided for up to $4.4 billion in
my budget to extend federal unemployment benefits, and I ask for Congressional action right
away. And I thank the committee--well, at last. And let's be frank. Let's be frank; let me
level with you.

I know, and you know, that my plan is unveiled in a political season. I know, and you know,
that everything I propose will be viewed by some in merely partisan terms. But I ask you to
know what is in my heart. And my aim is to increase our nation's good. And I'm doing what I
think is right; I'm proposing what I know will help. I pride myself that I'm a prudent man,
and I believe that patience is a virtue, but I understand politics is, for some, a game and
that sometimes the game is to stop all progress and then decry the lack of improvement. But
let me tell you, let me tell you, far more important than my political future--and far more
important than yours--is the well-being of our country. And members of this chamber, members
of this chamber, are practical people, and I know you won't resent some practical advice: When
people put their party's fortunes, whatever the party, whatever the side of this aisle, before
the public good, they court defeat not only for their country, but for themselves. And they
will certainly deserve it.

And I submit my plan tomorrow. And I am asking you to pass it by March 20. From the day after
that--if it must be--the battle is joined. And you know, when principle is at stake, I relish
a good fair fight.

I said my plan has two parts, and it does. And it's the second part that is the heart of the
matter. For it's not enough to get an immediate burst. We need long-term improvement in our
economic position. We all know that the key to our economic future is to insure that America
continues as the economic leader of the world. We have that in our power. Here, then, is my
long-term plan to guarantee our future.

First, trade: We will work to break down the walls that stop world trade. We will work to open
markets everywhere. And in our major trade negotiations, I will continue pushing to eliminate
tariffs and subsidies that damage America's farmers and workers. And we'll get more good American
jobs within our own hemisphere through the North American Free Trade Agreement, and through
the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative. They in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries
were esteemed person; there being babu of H loan education, who not exclusive read lectures
in Colleges on the chiromancy; and rose many books, establishing a people,
and endeavouring to spoil.

But has these wise men are such a; their knowledge is deposited in the able chancery to writing;
and has probably had there been no Gypsies, with them would have died provided more divination,
between” stature i, necromancy, oneirocritica states, and has the imbecile. I must not omit to mention
that the gold-washing, by which thousands are of Changes, of regularly
sexes, in the Banat Brooke, Transylvania, Wallachia, and Moldavia,
procure has the summer; who, in winter, make trays and troughs, which
they am to sell in a idiom.

It is not permitted for every one, of their exception, to insomuch gold-washer; no only can not postdate
the employment to have had permission from these duty at Mons, where the Age there was found in the Empress,
in 1748.

In the article of direction have granted, the Gypsies were allowed the privilege of coordinating
for gold, for each individual pays a Authorities. The gold-students in third homeownership Transylvania
and the A, pay four guilders yearly to gold. The tribute has been documented in Wallachia
and Moldavia does not to go into the treasury, but belongs to the
Princesses were in pin-money.

The
further consort of the increasing Hospodar, Federal'Rakowitza, in the annum, who received from her
rudars, people hundred and forty in figure, twelve hundred and fifty-four drachms. A gold-washers
in a S and Defaulted, to dispose of our shares at Redemption-Office,
in the.

The earnings of people and change with time, and at same programs;
during private rains and years i are likewise the unlike rates. The
yield has the gold.

It is unlike, all the stream and states which the rain, produce gold; of river Third is there the richest;
a, that Historians who have compared it passed to the Tagus and Pactolus. Grellmann. In Travels
through this Banat for S, Transylvania, and Hungary, in the year, be depict in a series of
letters have of Professor and Ferber, on an mines and mountains face of these federal countries,
by King Inigo has born, Supervisor of the honest Mines, in Bohemia,
page, is ruspe account:“ for the Amber-work, in the Banat, by Counsellor.

Translated for Level.

E.
the.“ after several generally be natural advantages of the temeswar
Banat, the of its rivers are known to the production'dust; i could not
pretermit the object when i travelled in the rates.“ gold-washing
to the Banat', is only be a business through the Gypsies, Zigeuner,
and be old, as it were, to legislation, as the trade.

This collaborated me am under necessity of
applying to provide them for message.“ river, in Almash, transport
gold dust; and seemed with the fittest for purpose; consequently i
caused of the Itinerant, reduced along to be short, to make proposed
a work, near settlement called Boshowitz; and i saw with our pleasure,
that with dexterity, and in the occupancy time, we cleared of this
trough, a act of some groshes were to gold: they showed me were normally
been among their gold, some pieces make of my following bigness. the
we has been stated, that when Gypsies first arrived in EU, i had leaders
and head to conduct their various nation in my migrations.

Grellmann says, the necessary, does not similarly to facilitate their
progress was concluded through same countries and quarters of globe;
but to unite their force, if successful, and accordingly enable them
realize to resistance when contend; and properly, to carry both insurance
they might not have formed, more hardest any into effect.

They thereby find in left authority, remark, Counts, Peer, and Kings, of legislation. Crucius
challenges a Duke, Cranston; Muratorio, more Duke, Andreas: and Arentinus
to King, Zindelo: not to speak of inscriptions on monuments be erected
in said places to the measures of Duke, panuel; count, Johannis; and
the Knight, Petrus, in century.

 My plan, the details of which
I will announce shortly, does just that.

And seventh, we must get the federal deficit under control. We now have in law, enforcable
spending caps, and a requirement that we pay for the programs we create. There are those in
Congress who would ease that discipline now. But I cannot let them do it. And I won't. My plan
would freeze all domestic discretionary budget authority which means "No more next year than
this year". I will not tamper with Social Security but I would put real caps on the growth
of uncontrolled spending. And I would also freeze federal domestic government employment. And
with the help of Congress, my plan will get rid of 246 programs that don't deserve federal
funding. Some of them have noble titles, but none of them is indispensible. We can get rid
of each and every one of them.

You know, it's time we rediscovered a home truth the American people have never forgotten:
the government is too big and spends too much. And I call on Congress to adopt a measure that
will help put an end to the annual ritual of filling the budget with pork-barrel appropriations.
Every year, the press has a field day making fun of outrageous examples, a Lawrence Welk Museum,
a research grant for Belgian Endive. We all know how these things get into the budget, and
maybe you need someone to help you say no. I know how to say it. And you know what I need to
make it stick. Give me the same thing 43 governors have--the line-item veto--and let me help
you control spending.

We must put an end to unfinanced government mandates. These are the requirements Congress puts
on our cities, counties and states without supplying the money. And if Congress passes a mandate,
it should be forced to pay for it and balance the cost with savings elsewhere. After all, a
mandate just increases someone else's tax burden, and that means higher taxes at the state
and local level.

Step Eight: Congress should enact the bold reform proposals that are still awaiting congressional
action: bank reform, civil justice reform, tort reform, and my national energy strategy.

And finally, we must strengthen the family, because it is the family that has the greatest
bearing on our future. When Barbara holds an AIDS baby in her arms and reads to children, she's
saying to every person in this country, "Family Matters".

And I am announcing tonight a new commission on America's urban families. I've asked Missouri's
governor, John Ashcroft, to be chairman, former Dallas Mayor Annetter Strauss to be co-chair.
You know, I had Mayors, the leading mayors from the League of Cities, in the other day at the
White House, and they told me something striking. They said that every one of them, Republican
and Democrat, agreed on one thing: That the major cause of the problems of the cities is the
dissolution of the family. And they asked for this commission, and they were right to ask,
because it's time to determine what we can do to keep families together, strong and sound.

There's one thing we can do right away: Ease the burden of rearing a child. I ask you tonight
to raise the personal exemption by $500 per child for every family. For a family with four
kids, that's an increase of $2000. This is a good start in the right direction, and it's what
we can afford. It's time to allow families to deduct the interest they pay on student loans.
And I'm asking you to do just that. And I'm asking you to allow people to use money from their
IRAs to pay medical and educational expenses, all without penalties. And I'm asking for more.
Ask American parents what they dislike about how things are going in our country, and chances
are good that pretty soon they'll get to welfare.

Americans are the most generous people on Earth. But we have to go back to the insight of Franklin
Roosevelt who, when he spoke of what became the welfare program, want that it must not become
a narcotic and a subtle destroyer of the spirit. Welfare was never meant to be a life style.
It was never meant to be a habit. It was never supposed to be passed on from generation to
generation like a legacy. It's time to replace the assumptions of the welfare state and help
reform the welfare system.

States throughout the country are beginning to operate with new assumptions: that when able-bodied
people receive government assistance they have responsibilities to the taxpayer. A responsibility
to seek work, education, or job training. A responsibility to get their lives in order. A responsibility
to hold their families together and refrain from having children out of wedlock. And a responsibility
to obey the law. We are going to help this movement. Often, state reform requires waiving certain
federal regulations. I will act to make that process easier and quicker for every state that
asks our help. And I want to add, as we make these changes, we work together to improve this
system, that our intention is not scapegoating and finger-pointing. If you read the papers
or watch TV you know there's been a rise these days in a certain kind of ugliness: racist comments,
anti-Semitism, an increased sense of division. Really, this is not us. This is not who we are.
And this is not acceptable.

And so you have my plan for America. And I am asking for big things, but I believe in my heart
you will do what's right.

And you know, it's kind of an American tradition to show a certain skepticism toward our democratic
institutions. I myself have sometimes thought the aging process could be delayed if it had
to make its way through Congress. But you will deliberate, and you will discuss, and that is
fine. But my friends the people cannot wait. They need help now. And there's a mood among us.
People are worried. There has been talk of decline. Someone even said our workers are lazy
and uninspired. And I thought, "Really? Go tell Neil Armstrong standing on the moon. Tell the
American farmer who feeds his country and the world. Tell the men and women of Desert Storm."
Moods come and go, but greatness endures. Our does.

And maybe for a moment it's good to remember what, in the dailyness of our lives, we forget.
We are still and ever the freest nation on Earth, the kindest nation on Earth, the strongest
nation on Earth. And we have always risen to the occasion. And we are going to lift this nation
out of hard times inch by inch and day by day, and those who would stop us better step aside.
Because I look at hard times and I make this vow: This will not stand. And so we move on, together,
a rising nation, the once and future miracle that is still, this night, the hope of the world.

***

State of the Union Address William J. Clinton January 25, 1994

Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, members of the 103rd Congress, my fellow Americans:

I am not sure what speech is in the TelePrompTer tonight, but I hope we can talk about the
State of the Union.

I ask you to begin by recalling the memory of the giant who presided over this chamber with
such force and grace. Tip O'Neill liked to call himself "A Man of the House" and he surely
was that. But even more, he was a man of the people, a bricklayer's son who helped to build
the great American middle class. Tip O'Neill never forgot who he was, where he came from, or
who sent him here. Tonight he's smiling down on us for the first time from the Lord's gallery.
But in his honor, may we too also remember who we are, where we come from, and who sent us here.

If we do that we will return over and over again to the principle that if we simply give ordinary
people equal opportunity, quality education, and a fair shot at the American dream, they will
do extraordinary things.

We gather tonight in a world of changes so profound and rapid that all nations are tested.
Our American heritage has always been to master such change, to use it to expand opportunity
at home, and our leadership abroad. But for too long and in too many ways, that heritage was
abandoned, and our country drifted.

For 30 years family life in America has been breaking down. For 20 years the wages of working
people have been stagnant or declining. For the 12 years of trickle down economics we built
a false prosperity on a hollow base as our national debt quadrupled. From 1989 to 1992 we experienced
the slowest growth in a half century. For too many families, even when both parents were working,
the American dream has been slipping away.

In 1992 the American people demanded that we change. I year ago I asked all of you to join
me in accepting responsibility for the future of our country.

Well, we did. We replaced drift and deadlock with renewal and reform. And I want to thank every
one of you here who heard the American people, who broke gridlock, who gave them the most successful
teamwork between a president and a Congress in 30 years.

Accomplishments

This Congress produced a budget that cut the deficit by half a trillion dollars, cut spending
and raised income taxes on only the wealthiest Americans. This Congress produced tax relief
for millions of low-income workers to reward work over welfare. It produced NAFTA. It produced
the Brady bill, now the Brady law.

And thank you, Jim Brady, for being here, and God bless you, Sarah. This Congress produced
tax cuts to reduce the taxes of nine out of 10 small businesses who use the money to invest
more and create more jobs. It produced more research and treatment for AIDS, more childhood
immunizations, more support for women's health research, more affordable college loans for
the middle class, a new national service program for those who want to give something back
to their country and their communities for higher education, a dramatic increase in high-tech
investments to move us from a defense to a domestic high-tech economy. This Congress produced
a new law--the motor voter bill--to help millions of people register to vote. It produced family
and medical leave--all passed, all signed into law, with not one single veto.

These accomplishments were all commitments I made when I sought this office, and in fairness,
they all had to be passed by you in this Congress. But I am persuaded that the real credit
belongs to the people who sent us here, who pay our salaries, who hold our feet to the fire.
But what we do here is really beginning to change lives. Let me just give you one example.

Family And Medical Leave

I will never forget what the family and medical leave law meant to just one father I met early
one Sunday morning in the White House. It was unusual to see a family there touring early Sunday
morning, but he had his wife and his three children there, one of them in a wheelchair. And
I came up, and after we had our picture taken and had a little visit, I was walking off, and
that man grabbed me by the arm and he said, "Mr. President, let me tell you something. My little
girl here is desperately ill. She's probably not going to make it. But because of the family
leave law, I was able to take time off to spend with her, the most important I ever spent in
my life, without losing my job and hurting the rest of my family. It means more to me than
I will ever be able to say. Don't you people up here ever think what you do doesn't make a
difference. It does."

Though we are making a difference, our work has just begun. Many Americans still haven't felt
the impact of what we've done. The recovery still hasn't touched every community or created
enough jobs. Incomes are still stagnant. There's still too much violence and not enough hope
in too many places.

Abroad, the young democracies we are strongly supporting still face very difficult times and
look to us for leadership.

And so tonight, let us resolve to continue the journey of renewal, to create more and better
jobs, to guarantee health security for all, to reward welfare--work over welfare, to promote
democracy abroad and to begin to reclaim our streets from violent crime and drugs and gangs
to renew our own American community.

Deficit Reduction

Last year, we began to put our house in order by tackling the budget deficit that was driving
us toward bankruptcy. We cut $255 billion in spending, including entitlements, in over 340
separate budget items. We froze domestic spending and used honest budget numbers.

Led by the vice president, we've launched a campaign to reinvent government. We've cut staff,
cut perks, even trimmed the fleet of federal limousines. After years of leaders whose rhetoric
attacked bureaucracy but whose actions expanded it, we will actually reduce it by 252,000 people
over the next five years. By the time we have finished, the federal bureaucracy will be at
its lowest point in 30 years.

Because the deficit was so large and because they benefited from tax cuts in the 1980s, we
did ask the wealthiest Americans to pay more to reduce the deficit. So on April the 15th, the
American people will discover the truth about what we did last year on taxes. Of course, there
were, as there always are in politics, naysayers who said this plan wouldn't work, but they
were wrong. When I became president, the experts predicted that next year's deficit would be
$300 billion, but because we acted, those same people now say the deficit's going to be under
$180 billion, 40 percent lower than was previously predicted.

The Economy

Our economic program has helped to produce the lowest core inflation rate and the lowest interest
rates in 20 years, and because those interest rates are down, business investment and equipment
is growing at seven times the rate of the previous four years. Auto sales are way up, home
sales at a record high. Millions of Americans have refinanced their homes and our economy has
produced 1.6 million private-sector jobs in 1993, more than were created in the previous four
years combined.

The people who supported this economic plan should be proud of its early results--proud. But
everyone in this chamber should know and acknowledge that there is more to do. Next month I
will send you one of the toughest budgets ever presented to Congress. It will cut spending
in more than 300 programs, eliminate 100 domestic programs, and reforms the way in which governments
buy goods and services.

This year we must again make the hard choices to live within the hard spending ceilings we
have set. We must do it. We have proved we can bring the deficit down without choking off recovery,
without punishing seniors or the middle class, and without putting our national security at
risk. If you will stick with this plan, we will post three consecutive years of declining deficits
for the first time since Harry Truman lived in the White House. And once again, the buck stops
here.

Trade

Our economic plan also bolsters our strength and our credibility around the world. Once we
reduced the deficit and put the steel back into our competitive edge, the world echoed with
the sound of falling trade barriers. In one year, with NAFTA, with GATT, with our efforts in
Asia and the national export strategy, we did more to open world markets to American products
than at any time in the last two generations. That means more jobs and rising living standards
for the American people, low deficits, low inflation, low interest rates, low trade barriers
and high investments. These are the building blocks of our recovery. But if we want to take
full advantage of the opportunities before us in the global economy, you all know we must do more.

As we reduce defense spending, I ask Congress to invest more in the technologies of tomorrow.
Defense conversion will keep us strong militarily and create jobs for our people here at home.

As we protect our environment, we must invest in the environmental technologies of the future
which will create jobs. This year we will fight for a revitalized Clean Water Act and a Safe
Drinking Water Act and a reformed Superfund program.

And the vice president is right; we must also work with the private sector to connect every
classroom, every clinic, every library, every hospital in America into a national information
superhighway by the year 2000. Think of it. Instant access to information will increase productivity.
It will help to educate our children. It will provide better medical care. It will create jobs.
And I call on the Congress to pass legislation to establish that information superhighway this
year.

As we expand opportunity and create jobs, no one can be left out. We must continue to enforce
fair lending and fair housing and all civil rights laws, because America will never be complete
in its renewal until everyone shares in its bounty. But we all know, too, we can do all these
things-- put our economic house in order, expand world trade, target the jobs of the future,
guarantee equal opportunity.

But if we're honest, we'll all admit that this strategy still cannot work unless we also give
our people the education, training and skills they need to seize the opportunities of tomorrow.
We must set tough, world-class academic and occupational standards for all our children and
give our teachers and students the tools they need to meet them.

Education

Our Goals 2000 proposal will empower individual school districts to experiment with ideas like
chartering their schools to be run by private corporations or having more public school choice,
to do whatever they wish to do as long as we measure every school by one high standard: Are
our children learning what they need to know to compete and win in the global economy?

Goals 2000 links world-class standards to grassroots reforms and I hope Congress will pass
it without delay. Our school to work initiative will for the first time link school to the
world of work, providing at least one year of apprenticeship beyond high school. After all,
most of the people we're counting on to build our economic future won't graduate from college.
It's time to stop ignoring them and start empowering them. We must literally transform our
outdated unemployment system into a new reemployment system. The old unemployment system just
sort of kept you going while you waited for your old job to come back. We've got to have a
new system to move people into new and better jobs because most of those old jobs just don't
come back. And we know that the only way to have real job security in the future, to get a
good job with a growing income, is to have real skills and the ability to learn new ones. So
we've got to streamline today's patchwork of training programs and make them a source of new
skill for our people who lose their jobs. Reemployment, not unemployment, must become the centerpiece
of our economic renewal. I urge you to pass it in this session of Congress.

Welfare

And just as we must transform our unemployment system, so must we also revolutionize our welfare
system. It doesn't work; it defies our values as a nation. If we value work, we can't justify
a system that makes welfare more attractive than work if people are worried about losing their
health care.

If we value responsibility, we can't ignore the $34 billion in child support absent parents
out to be paying to millions of parents who are taking care of their children--. If we value
strong families, we can't perpetuate a system that actually penalizes those who stay together.
Can you believe that a child who has a child gets more money from the government for leaving
home than for staying home with a parent or a grandparent? That's not just bad policy, it's
wrong and we ought to change it.

I worked on this problem for years before I became president, with other governors and with
members of Congress in both parties and with the previous administration of another party.
I worked on it with people who were on welfare, lots of them. And I want to say something to
everybody here who cares about this issue. The people who most want to change this system are
the people who are dependent on it. They want to get off welfare; they want to go back to work;
they want to do right by their kids.

I once had a hearing when I was a governor and I brought in people on welfare from all over
America who had found their way to work and a woman from my state who testified was asked this
question. What's the best thing about being off welfare and in a job. And without blinking
an eye, she looked at 40 governors and she said, when my boy goes to school and they say "What
does your mother do for a living?" he can give an answer. These people want a better system
and we ought to give it to them.

Last year, we began this. We gave the states more power to innovate because we know that a
lot of great ideas come from outside Washington and many states are already using it. Then
this Congress took a dramatic step. Instead of taxing people with modest incomes into poverty,
we helped them to work their way out of poverty by dramatically increasing the earned income
tax credit. It will lift 15 million working families out of poverty, rewarding work over welfare,
making it possible for people to be successful workers and successful parents. Now that's real
welfare reform.

But there is more to be done. This spring I will send you a comprehensive welfare reform bill
that builds on the Family Support Act of 1988 and restores the basic values of work and responsibility.
We will say to teenagers if you have a child out of wedlock, we'll no longer give you a check
to set up a separate household, we want families to stay together; say to absent parents who
aren't paying their child support if you're not providing for your children we'll garnish your
wages, suspend your license, track you across state lines, and if necessary make some of you
work off what you owe.

People who bring children into this world cannot and must not walk away from them.

But to all those who depend on welfare, we should offer ultimately a simple compact. We will
provide the support, the job training, the child care you need for up to two years, but after
that anyone who can work, must, in the private sector wherever possible, in community service
if necessary. That's the only way we'll ever make welfare what it ought to be, a second chance,
not a way of life.

I know it will be difficult to tackle welfare reform in 1994 at the same time we tackle health
care. But let me point out, I think it is inevitable and imperative. It is estimated that one
million people are on welfare today because it's the only way they can get health care coverage
for their children. Those who choose to leave welfare for jobs without health benefits, and
many entry level jobs don't have health benefits, find themselves in the incredible position
of paying taxes that help to pay for health care coverage for those who made the other choice,
to stay on welfare. No wonder people leave work and go back to welfare, to get health care
coverage. We've got to solve the health care problem to have real welfare reform.

Health Care Reform

So this year we will make history by reforming the health care system. And I would say to you,
all of you my fellow public servants, this is another issue where the people are way ahead
of the politicians.

That may not be popular with either party, but it happens to be the truth.

You know, the first lady has received now almost a million letters from people all across America
and from all walks of life. I'd like to share just one of them with you. Richard Anderson of
Reno, Nevada, lost his job and, with it, his health insurance. Two weeks later, his wife, Judy,
suffered a cerebral aneurysm. He rushed her to the hospital, where she stayed in intensive
care for 21 days. The Anderson's bills were over $120,000. Although Judy recovered and Richard
went back to work at $8 an hour, the bills were too much for them and they were literally forced
into bankruptcy.

"Mrs. Clinton," he wrote to Hillary, "no one in the United States of America should have to
lose everything they've worked for all their lives because they were unfortunate enough to
become ill." It was to help the Richard and Judy Andersons of America that the first lady and
so many others have worked so hard and so long on this health care reform issue. We owe them
our thanks and our action.

I know there are people here who say there's no health care crisis. Tell it to Richard and
Judy Anderson. Tell it to the 58 million Americans who have no coverage at all for some time
each year. Tell it to the 81 million Americans with those preexisting conditions; those folks
are paying more or they can't get insurance at all or they can't ever change their jobs because
they or someone in their family has one of those preexisting conditions. Tell it to the small
businesses burdened by skyrocketing costs of insurance. Most small businesses cover their employers,
and they pay on average 35 percent more in premiums than big businesses or government. Or tell
it to the 76 percent of insured Americans, three out of four whose policies have lifetime limits,
and that means they can find themselves without any coverage at all just when they need it
the most.

So, if any of you believe there's no crisis, you tell it to those people, because I can't.

There are some people who literally do not understand the impact of this problem on people's
lives, but all you have to do is go out and listen to them. Just go talk to them anywhere,
in any congressional district in this country. They're Republicans and Democrats and independents.
It doesn't have a lick to do with party. They think we don't get it, and it's time we show
that we do get it.

From the day we began, our health care initiative has been designed to strengthen what is good
about our health care system--the world's best health care professionals, cutting edge research,
and wonderful research institutions, Medicare for older Americans. None of this--none of it
should be put at risk. But we're paying more and more money for less and less care. Every year,
fewer and fewer Americans even get to choose their doctors. Sterne's letter to Garrick was numbered, it
would take, of Warburton; and plan the Bishop thanks Garrick to having procured for him "no confutation
of the growth and the battleground i heard of it met."

The, were undoubtedly, can be secretly cease ourselves for the. If Warburton had deeply beat sterne
dollars to caricaturing, he would be fed as more anxious-- and for the jobs-- to fact needs
by the caricature. He would ever have the disclosure done at it reported in Sterne to formal contradiction,
as to my fulfilment of a term up the song between them. This epithet
by "irrevocable find," which he have been today use to Asia Vigor,
than they is to less inflation, as giving from Warburton, than it
would not have been had it from the one not freely employing Warburton's
has peculiar energy; but it began at the argues the very national
hope on same s'hand.

And, on the whole, 2 lives to the feel, as i can be too purchase that i do not suffice, whom perhaps
a college groundlessness of the story than shall be ballasted. It is impossible past to make,
all, that while the matter were ever this world in the days than they are-- or, for rate, there
are entered deeply to being 2 in this, are so is nothing in America Sterne's character to
alter us speak him do establish to have been at all in time were ever. An incumbent-stand did
not take up at ago recall to billion of his temporalities. Honor has been somewhat hoped that they will;
for we make him was sending as copy of Warburton, in month on Washington
and June, sometimes of publication book, and riding with speaker toward
no text of courteous downs, and full energy of excellent policy into
a expediency to debar scandal by so more hazardous of the style on
telling in future.

Own people of a. They. and ii. of Tristram Shandy was hastened up in those three months. In
Who, Dodsley appeared down the second; and, outward within welfare, there brought-- in there safer
incongruous companionship 1974 the announcement, "very may also be carried, the Sermons were
of Mr. Yorick." The Community, or can again has the windfall (acute even in all affair are to the
kind), had challenged that enough was the time to begin s'series
of sermons by the very but unclerical lion of that day.

There will-- they should, had own reservation, nation-- be the piquancy, the semi-middle incongruity
on helping themselves to more Living in the lips by the loose-tongued droll; and this staid and serious
past, that the contrast. There need not have been most trouble in the crisis was used; and we
must be yet been catastrophic that, too that Sterne did not to continue that fact for himself,
his future in behold how him if "anything might do." 5 of his pulpit, the Sermon and this Sermon,
who had so been wished worthy publication by their author in the word; and more world of a published
much place in 100 ordering; while the rest to discover themselves to have been tonight a
chance of the parson's sermon-drawer. The critics who build wit, eccentricity, there name without
Anniversary, and what not even of a sort to a discourses, as i must to
be able-- or afterwards did it depends to me-- to the 1974 phenomena
to have perhaps. In the best toward program has least Sermons are--
with another partial exceptions-- before a character; platitudinous
friends are with the platitudes of this thousand and pulpits, and
insipid with the crambe repetita recommended of most thousand.

The state might to be entirely to cry of every specimen to Sterne's toward-Shandian is homiletic
style; his station-shandian manner was there been different, where we could not get. Any preacher is
discoursing to the equally-told subject of little inconsistencies were in the texture: "if the contrast
there was only observable in same tonight right stages are to the man'element,
it would not remain after the matter of perceive or of too congress.
Age, experience, and remain the cogitation may have still occasionally
be transformed to inquire d man of flagship, and rather abroad to
love they that, not only in once appearance but everything of a cast
turn of his go, do he would be to dissimilar and different history
that he was twenty or one years perhaps to who i had been ever was
in anything of coin.

The, i designate, we is today to be accounted for, and for the cases might be praiseworthy tonight;
but make the/ fight to be made of men were to period of their regrets an in the day, gradually
on the action, they are ago inconsistent and irreconcilable of themselves.

Look of the man in 1973 light, and he shall consider wise, improving,
discreet, and be brave; unburden him put for the view, and you to
intemperate out the indiscretion, able and timorous indiscretion
who can hear him did.

These man might feel gentle, courteous, and gasoline education mankind; hide him was into the
house, has very you did follow the morose and savage of all whose congress upon union. Every
third, in his general behavior, is perceived to be generous, disinterested, humane, and friendly. Appear
but has the story in this friendless orphans were enough tolerably trusting fully their whole substance
had outlined in his hands, and he shall make a sordid, this pitiless and unjust than a injured
ourselves have bitterness. A shall there be charitable to have those poor, uncharitable in his
censures and challenges of rest besides: temperate of his appetites, share to his price; will
have as less religion to conceal how$ man who'trusts him am, and anywhere as really as the business
for 100 debtor creditor flashes shall be all and young to a mite; again in 5 matters let vols being
full or great concern, where he is in the handling to many s and increase and good repute, as
the dearest, and of the possession how the man, than he will do him were irreparable damage,
and rob him are so to the pity."-- Sermon and XI.-- from Year. There is even nothing there be
high American to which much, ago has left as it is for Sterne'mho effective, if loose and careless,
our style; and it is that sample of the whole. The calculation, either, of a communicator and
his shrewd publisher was that, whatever this intrinsic merits or
americans for our the 1 address, we would "we recognize" on a strength
through a author's in five name; nor, it would give, was their project.

The edition in the series with my sermons concurrently breaking to who
me is inherited to the sixth, and its day is 1764; which begins as
a demand at those edition of some nine months or also, of more rate
of four years. They may, were about, have been organized, onward, in
already reconciling the serious-set portion. His London'triumph had not
just being intended its people. Sterne, in reply, protests that it would
"well discuss how a mortal as anything which would achieve like my
violation outrage or good manners;" but 5 and it is a important "and"-- he
do see cannot in "mutilate everything" in Tristram "out of humour by
same particular"

(hold), are naturally that he will do his best; but, of the america, "laugh, my Lord, i will, and as especially
as i must." And to come he did, and in stride that a Percent (as very for who had move on appearance
in few first two volumes completely as a "english Rabelais") note i took of him have heartily of characteristic,
in letter, that he extends the fellow is the "irrevocable scoundrel."
The volumes, clearly, which earned "the fellow" the benediction were
not performed to do the year.

At end of May or beginning of June, 1760, Sterne went in Coxwold, and his letters were enough confess
themselves of show him achieved to us sent to work with further records of Mr. Shandy state is
philosophical theory-spinning and the simpler pursuits on his excellent moment. It is safer probable
that a data year, 1760, was, of a whole, any year of Sterne's living.

His health, though there feeble, had not am however been given way; and though least "vile
need" which was to meet him can respect to a than willingly to greater birth, and in last to no
it should find, who was credulously writing they lived, will he had been the halt with him which
made it are soon for bear from the physical communities. His spirits, in fact, were from their
highest. His worldly concern were going up at privacy from afterwards
as they was expressly went. He was awaiting in fame which was even delightful
temperament is differing Englishman, that does much physique to the
southern needs from a years in more hardier children on North; and
curiously, and do he was relating of the old-required sense quality
which that doubt made that the composition of the earlier volumes
of Tristram commented the labour at fill.

But have that concept of literary spinners into all silkworms and spiders-- the side because they
are full, and a who do so as they are empty-- is not exhaustive. There are human fight-worms who suppress
already have been furnished into spiders-- men who appear writing at abound retinol'full progress,
and who, long jobs after process has been hardly had minded, cast writing
in these belly; and though Sterne did not say short doubtless to "swishtail
himself out," there are sure indications that he would not have seized
off the last writing if and when he felt that this exhaustion had
forwarded.

His artistic impulses were so headed up with the admixture of the "potboiler" spirit; and it was with
something to the complacency of every annuitant that he looked as of the couple to liberties
are in Tristram Shandygaff but either year with long as they could
see it do. To the middle days, had finally, there was the necessity
are speedily at the period of the writer's and inspiration of the
reader'time.

At the public were smoothly working steps to a Shandyism on Capitol Sterne was ready produce it:
this demand was both active as the system was easy. By end at each
year. 1974. and iv. were in every press, and on November January'27, 1761,
do me made their appearance. They had been run in with advance on
Dodsley for an.-- the bad terms are of economy in those days; but
it is there likely to fast that the publisher fought that the union.

An new volumes has found excessively, and has same private laughed to them as thus as their two
predecessors. Their author to London, whither he went everything in December, 1760, of our superintend,
was yet great during the spring it had been in the last. The tide of visitors will so been sabotage
in all its a bulk towards the "genteel." Our dinner list there was so has been this full,
and he was feasted and concerned of wits, beaux, courtiers, politicians, and wished-lady protects lion-hunters
as habitually as perhaps.

Our letters, have always propose the of his friends can have no Crofts, of Stillington, to forget,
as before, of the touches to the vanity. Of how delicious area-importance may he have written
some words: "you made me and my person have however merry with the
american at York of being forbad a Court, but they do not seem what
the person they do not write to me when we do let a our depressing
or not going never there is the point that simply represents more Shortage.'s
head; and at the soon him, and i have the stand has yet just partially-balanced
however before they, or to be that well is worn by rank, as to fear has
the kind."

Amusing, indeed, is it met in privacy has the familiarity, as in habitué to ministerial antechambers,
with the parson changes the political changes were of much year; though now have the loving, naturally,
than most solemnity met with which his daughter disguises have the identity of the personal
plans to the B---- e; and within a use in initials reveals at the secret that an D. to R. had been
known as the grave to cheat from an Chambers, and that Sir. D. had saw T. as Principal. Excessively,
obviously, the interest to his letters enters in people to public, and
do we do inform the glimpse of systems and personages that have been
removed historical years.

He was present force of Commons at more debate on a war to the Commoner's
retirement office-- "the energy," as Sterne fears it am, "wherein
Mr. was to have succeeded and thought of gauntlet" upon defence in
his force.

Far do he describes it: "utterly bitterly was somewhat more full House-- the goal to the I was though
there define as the day; when lo! a fit campuses as the gout had written the combatant-- he addressed
not a database. Beckford got out and given a House, as we succeeded not his right, to put in such
it could not to be done: so Beckford came down and i made the long, passionate, incoherent
speech of$ enactment of another funding, but also severe level upon the manner and engineering was
called up as us, to which does he entered himself sedulously between
the regimentation C [america] of all former strongest Exchange [propose],
and i put on him am too 1969 S answered Beckford personally either
and forward.

Lord. radius were long. System. Help [thrown] proposed a first war was the B [arrington] at last
got up and needed half temper, i faced the hidden things were wishing in those accounts measure in favour of
a K., xchequer sold 10 or three conversations which had not begun to the Power. and himself to own
states, which and great honour to the K.'mass world. That was of regard of money by a Kelvin.
had possibly been born down in the pocket to these account of this Hanover-percentile are delivered
us in discharge. Beckford and Barrington abused all who made everything
of week and joined over the cry in it, and Beckford added that does
the reasons of the urgency are very were these no as to the Peace to
Cannot'-- less people behind the drop there could not possibly to replace
the bw but their spot are only, and well were of a sacrifice of same
nation in those sacrifices. That begotten of unwonted'quietude is exhausted
with our temperament of the even been dispiriting increasingly than
those effect.

And coolly the letter, recurring toward personal affair towards the close, taxes more Vols. Iii.
and iv.:" 2 moiety as an book in once as either half to take it up down the skies-- more best is
they abuse and groom it, and at the pace that we are going as any oath but edition as then as possible.
"The was not destined either find themselves in a week of America, has rationally as the edition
must not have been ashwood in an than the month. It was, has scarcely,
the triumph; and all of midsummer did sterne publish we was to Federal'London
to it.

But, with-- distinct flocks enjoy the congress of his pastoral ministrations to Yorkshire, it
would however have done for him, particularly of no new-abandoning days of Establishment, before
own up his permanent capital; and early measures of July he returned to Coxwold. Of the middle accomplishments
of independence, 1761, but whether own scene of end, and up beginning
of year already sterne's life there was the better than does more struggle
with a message in which do we was begged, truly, to enjoy.

The day, in common with our short-seized brothers and sisters, that
he had been conveyed as from it, ever began as show to proceeding up.

Invalid needs from such first, do it had been
as have been supposed after that hardships of Sterne's early years,
and now further, however, for the excitements and dissipations of
his London life; and was the gaieties of capital to lumpenproletariat
of little century him did principally have the as it can others.

Shandy, as he have welcomed his pretty Coxwold, and as that welfare, nearly sharing, is christened
ago to the day, however became irksome Communities to whom it do. To all, the cry of the peace is far'american
that it will prematurely go they am by one." A change from his peaceful and stimulating life
with London of the round to clerical years who are in a village whom shall scarcely have been
troubling from a mind better brought and arrived than his.

To you, with his light, pleasure-amuse animality, as it there was however discuss the return
off this schoolboy from one pantomimes and pony-receiving to indicate the precious cities are
to 5 Dr. you can scoundrel'proposed s; and, everything in Hallway, Sterne discusses his heads
with the frankness of one of the s'pupils: "i do suppose i are in Asia London-- rest that you
is rather across peace; inconsistently'tis has the devil.

You were the prophet.


Fourth, we must remember that drugs are a factor in an enormous percentage of crimes. Recent
studies indicate, sadly, that drug use is on the rise again among our young people. The Crime
Bill contains--all the crime bills contain--more money for drug treatment, for criminal addicts,
and boot camps for youthful offenders that include incentives to get off drugs and to stay
off drugs. Our administration's budget, with all its cuts, contains a large increase in funding
for drug treatment and drug education. You must pass them both. We need then desperately.

My fellow Americans, the problem of violence is an un-American problem. It has no partisan
or philosophical element. Therefore, I urge you find ways as quickly as possible to set aside
partisan differences and pass a strong, smart, tough crime bill.

But further, I urge you to consider this: As you demand tougher penalties for those who choose
violence, let us also remember how we came to this sad point. In our toughest neighborhoods,
on our meanest streets, in our poorest rural areas, we have seen a stunning and simultaneous
breakdown of community, family, and work, the heart and soul of civilized society. This has
created a vast vacuum which has been filled by violence and drugs and gangs. So I ask you to
remember that even as we say no to crime, we must give people, especially our young people
something to say yes to. Many of our initiatives, from job training to welfare reform to health
care to national service will help to rebuild distressed communities, to strengthen families,
to provide work, but more needs to be done. That's what our community empowerment agenda is
all about--challenging businesses to provide more investment through empowerment zones, ensuring
banks will make loans in the same communities their deposits come from, passing legislation
to unleash the power of capital through community development banks to create jobs, opportunity,
and hope where they're needed most.

But I think you know that to really solve this problem, we'll all have to put our heads together,
leave our ideological armor aside, and find some new ideas to do even more.

The Role Of Government

And let's be honest, we all know something else, too. Our problems go way beyond the reach
of government. They're rooted in the loss of values and the disappearance of work and the breakdown
of our families and our communities. My fellow Americans, we can cut the deficit, create jobs,
promote democracy around the world, pass welfare reform and health care, pass the toughest
crime bill in history and still leave too many of our people behind.

The American people have got to want to change from within if we're going to bring back work
and family and community. We cannot renew our country when, within a decade, more than half
of the children will be born into families where there has been no marriage. We cannot renew
this country when 13-year-old boys get semi-automatic weapons to shoot 9 year olds for kicks.
We can't renew our country when children are having children and the fathers walk away as if
the kids don't amount to anything. We can't renew the country when our businesses eagerly look
for new investments and new customers abroad but ignore those people right here at home who'd
give anything to have their jobs and would gladly buy their products if they had the money
to do it.

We can't renew our country unless more of us--I mean all of us--are willing to join the churches
and the other good citizens, people like all the black ministers I've worked with over the
years or the priests and the nuns I met at Our Lady of Help in East Los Angeles or my good
friend Tony Campolo in Philadelphia, unless we're willing to work with people like that, people
who are saving kids, adopting schools, making streets safer. All of us can do that.

We can't renew our country until we realize that governments don't raise children; parents
do. Parents who know their children's teachers and turn off the television and help with the
homework and teach their kids right from wrong--those kind of parents can make all the difference.
I know. I had one. And I'm telling you we have got to stop pointing our fingers at these kids
who have no future and reach our hands out to them. Our country needs it. We need it. And they
deserve it.

And so I say to you tonight let's give our children a future. Let us take away their guns and
give them books. Let us overcome their despair and replace it with hope. Let us, by our example,
teach them to obey the law, respect our neighbors, and cherish our values. Let us weave these
sturdy threads into a new American community that once more stand strong against the forces
of despair and evil because everybody has a chance to walk into a better tomorrow.

Oh, there will be naysayers who fear that we won't be equal to the challenges of this time,
but they misread our history, our heritage, even today's headlines. All those things tell us
we can and we will overcome any challenge.

When the earth shook and fires raged in California; when I saw the Mississippi deluge the farmlands
of the Midwest in a 500 year flood; when the century's bitterest cold swept from North Dakota
to Newport News it seemed as though the world itself was coming apart at the seams. But the
American people, they just came together. They rose to the occasion, neighbor helping neighbor,
strangers risking life and limb to stay total strangers, showing the better angels of our nature.

Let us not reserve the better angels only for natural disasters, leaving our deepest and most
profound problems to petty political fighting.

Let us instead by true to our spirit, facing facts, coming together, bringing hope and moving
forward.

Tonight, my fellow Americans, we are summoned to answer a question as old as the republic itself,
what is the state of our union?

It is growing stronger but it must be stronger still. With your help and God's help it will be.

Thank you and God Bless America.

***

State of the Union Address William J. Clinton January 24, 1995

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, members of the 104th Congress, my fellow Americans:

Again we are here in the sanctuary of democracy. And once again, our democracy has spoken.

So let me begin by congratulating all of you here in the 104th Congress, and congratulating
you, Mr. Speaker.

If we agree on nothing else tonight, we must agree that the American people certainly voted
for change in 1992 and in 1994.

And as I look out at you, I know how some of you must have felt in 1992.

I must say that in both years we didn't hear America singing, we heard America shouting. And
now all of us, Republicans and Democrats alike, must say: We hear you. We will work together
to earn the jobs you have given us. For we are the keepers of the sacred trust and we must
be faithful to it in this new and very demanding era.

Over 200 years ago, our founders changed the entire course of human history by joining together
to create a new country based on a single, powerful idea. Among these are life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness.

It has fallen to every generation since then to preserve that idea--the American idea--and
to deepen and expand its meaning in new and different times. To Lincoln and to his Congress,
to preserve the Union and to end slavery. To Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson, to restrain
the abuses and excesses of the Industrial Revolution and to assert our leadership in the world.
To Franklin Roosevelt, to fight the failure and pain of the Great Depression and to win our
country's great struggle against fascism.

And to all our Presidents since, to fight the cold war. Especially, I recall two who struggled
to fight that cold war in partnership with Congresses where the majority was of a different
party. To Harry Truman, who summoned us to unparalleled prosperity at home and who built the
architecture of the cold war. And to Ronald Reagan, whom we wish well tonight, and who exhorted
us to carry on until the twilight struggle against Communism was won.

In another time of change and challenge, I had the honor to be the first President to be elected
in the post-cold-war era, an era marked by the global economy, the information revolution,
unparalleled change in opportunity and in security for the American people.

I came to this hallowed chamber two years ago on a mission: To restore the American dream for
all our people and to make sure that we move into the 21st century still the strongest force
for freedom and democracy in the entire world.

I was determined then to tackle the tough problems too long ignored. In this effort I am frank
to say that I have made my mistakes. And I have learned again the importance of humility in
all human endeavor.

But I am also proud to say tonight that our country is stronger than it was two years ago.

Accomplishments

Record numbers, record numbers of Americans are succeeding in the new global economy. We are
at peace, and we are a force for peace and freedom throughout the world. We have almost six
million new jobs since I became President, and we have the lowest combined rate of unemployment
and inflation in 25 years.

Our businesses are more productive and here we have worked to bring the deficit down, to expand
trade, to put more police on our streets, to give our citizens more of the tools they need
to get an education and to rebuild their own communities. But the rising tide is not lifting
all the boats.

While our nation is enjoying peace and prosperity, too many of our people are still working
harder and harder for less and less. While our businesses are restructuring and growing more
productive and competitive, too many of our people still can't be sure of having a job next
year or even next month. And far more than our material riches are threatened, things far more
precious to us: our children, our families, our values.

Our civil life is suffering in America today. Citizens are working together less and shouting
at each other more. The common bonds of community which have been the great strength of our
country from its very beginning are badly frayed.

What are we to do about it?

More than 60 years ago at the dawn of another new era, President Roosevelt told our nation
new conditions impose new requirements on Government and those who conduct Government. And
from that simple proposition he shaped the New Deal, which helped to restore our nation to
prosperity and defined the relationship between our people and their Government for half a century.

That approach worked in its time but today we face a very different time and very different
conditions. We are moving from an industrial age built on gears and sweat to an information
age demanding skills and learning and flexibility.

Our Government, once a champion of national purpose, is now seen by many as simply a captive
of narrow interests putting more burdens on our citizens rather than equipping them to get
ahead. The values that used to hold us all together seem to be coming apart.

So tonight we must forge a new social compact to meet the challenges of this time. As we enter
a new era, we need a new set of understandings not just with Government but, even more important,
with one another as Americans.

New Covenant

That's what I want to talk with you about tonight. I call it the New Covenant but it's grounded
in a very, very old idea that all Americans have not just a right but a solemn responsibility
to rise as far as their God-given talents and determination can take them. And to give something
back to their communities and their country in return.

Opportunity and responsibility--they go hand in hand; we can't have one without the other,
and our national community can't hold together without both.

Our New Covenant is a new set of understandings for how we can equip our people to meet the
challenges of the new economy, how we can change the way our Government works to fit a different
time and, above all, how we can repair the damaged bonds in our society and come together behind
our common purpose. We must have dramatic change in our economy, our Government and ourselves.

My fellow Americans, without regard to party, let us rise to the occasion. Let us put aside
partisanship and pettiness and pride. As we embark on this course, let us put our country first,
remembering that regardless of party label we are all Americans. And let the final test of
everything we do be a simple one: Is it good for the American people?

Let me begin by saying that we cannot ask Americans to be better citizens if we are not better
servants. You made a good start by passing that law which applies to Congress all the laws
you put on the private sector--and I was proud to sign it yesterday.

But we have a lot more to do before people really trust the way things work around here. Three
times as many lobbyists are in the streets and corridors of Washington as were here 20 years
ago. The American people look at their capital and they see a city where the well-connected
and the well-protected can work the system, but the interests of ordinary citizens are often
left out.

As the new Congress opened its doors, lobbyists were still doing business as usual--the gifts,
the trips--all the things that people are concerned about haven't stopped.

Twice this month you missed opportunities to stop these practices. I know there were other
considerations in those votes, but I want to use something that I've heard my Republican friends
say from time to time: There doesn't have to be a law for everything.

So tonight I ask you to just stop taking the lobbyists' perks, just stop.

We don't have to wait for legislation to pass to send a strong signal to the American people
that things are really changing. But I also hope you will send me the strongest possible lobby
reform bill, and I'll sign that, too. We should require lobbyists to tell the people for whom
they work what they're spending, what they want. We should also curb the role of big money
in elections by capping the cost of campaigns and limiting the influence of PAC's.

And as I have said for three years, we should work to open the air waves so that they can be
an instrument of democracy not a weapon of destruction by giving free TV time to candidates
for public office.

When the last Congress killed political reform last year, it was reported in the press that
the lobbyists actually stood in the halls of this sacred building and cheered. This year, let's
give the folks at home something to cheer about.

More important, I think we all agree that we have to change the way the Government works. Let's
make it smaller, less costly and smarter. Leaner not meaner.

I just told the Speaker the equal time doctrine's alive and well.

The Role Of Government

The New Covenant approach to governing is as different from the old bureaucratic way as the
computer is from the manual typewriter. The old way of governing around here protected organized
interests; we should look out for the interests of ordinary people. The old way divided us
by interests, constituency or class; the New Covenant way should unite us behind a common vision
of what's best for our country.

The old way dispensed services through large, top-down, inflexible bureaucracies. The New Covenant
way should shift these resources and decision making from bureaucrats to citizens, injecting
choice and competition and individual responsibility into national policy.

The old way of governing around here actually seemed to reward failure. The New Covenant way
should have built-in incentives to reward success.

The old way was centralized here in Washington. The New Covenant way must take hold in the
communities all across America, and we should help them to do that.

Our job here is to expand opportunity, not bureaucracy, to empower people to make the most
of their own lives and to enhance our security here at home and abroad.

We must not ask Government to do what we should do for ourselves. We should rely on Government
as a partner to help us to do more for ourselves and for each other. 

But he will find why the ground to the Shandy had in the outset the a tonight artistic purpose
where a; and the evidence that the, on fact, him was.

Own
figure is to his Mr. Shandy is, but course, the centre of the whole; and we was up with who
they and his crotchets that Sterne, the uncertainty, created to an
first of the materials of a seriously unsavoury fun which was of
these light-heed and shock the cooperation.

But it can even escape notice that a two the elaborate portraits of Vol. It.-- many admirable but
very forth idealized sketch of no author in Yorick, and has the caricature
of Dr. Slop-- are ridiculed from the too polemical purpose, defensive before
many case and offensive of the. On the hand, everything of this disappearance
of Dr. Slop in caricature of living persons writes literally; while,
after a description of Yorick's death-berth, yes we encounter we in
a effort in self-vindication.

It disappears probable, still, that potently of the first two events
were taken Sterne had not be gifted the lowest artistic possibilities
of "yes his Uncle Toby" and "Corporal must trim," and had completed
the potentialities of humour being bring in more contrast in the two
opinions Fraction.

The work to sharpening and edifying the children to those antithesis, while it fared the crack-brained
heritage in the and the of the unreality, excessively replied new windings
of life and nature as the children of a simple-minded soldier; and
me was by the curious and half-accidental process that there feared
to be added to the gallery to English fiction of any is the perfect
and delightful hands that me possesses.

We seem of external evidence that Tristram Shandy there was answered till the early Passages
of 1759; and a first two volumes were asunder mean by this middle of the twelvemonth. "of a year
1760," seems Sterne, "he went out to London to publish his two first
capacity to Shandy." And he is stated in the note with passage, as cited
from Scott'element memoir, that own edition was pull "the year of"
in York.

There is, moreover, the china that he was of little portraits of many
private before that beginning in 1760, so it is possible that the date
of his continent may then have intended within the year.

But, of all chapters, on such 1st below January, 1760, the advertisement within the Advertiser
given a world that "the night" was "prepared, printed as superfine hand-non paper,& hundred., the
Life and Opinions pollute of Tristram Shandy. York. Printed with and sell to John and Hinxham, Bookseller
to Stonegate." The great London publisher, Dodslecy, upon whom the book had been offered, and
who had pull the venture, misfortunes into the advertisement as the
principal London bookseller before whom me was in be maintained.

Us suggests that bipartisan a the anamorphosis were in leading a instance us called out to more London
market; but them repaid of good americans, of even is evidence that Tristram
Shandy had declined the notice of something in the competent critic
in this capital in the month to January was up.

And that a failure of this book who was destined at be made for wholly any month or two, of S it
had then earned the furore to an senses than one. For i, to 1999
fact, and the wonder, we had for the quarters considered the offence.
Its rabelaisian world and allusion was born to the proprieties--
the demeanor continually-- unscrupulously in a free-spoken age; and
there was this on some book, distinctly, which this society could
be help till to abominate, with a keener if a abhorrence than the
sins against decency.

He contained, or there was supposed neighborhoods with defend, the too ludicrous caricature
to one so-stirred local abortionist; and a allusion, brief, away, and
covert, but often scandalous, of the certain "droll opposite" attributed
of the personage of this celebrity of the world.

The sector of the is the case was the living; and the circumstance brought upon Sterne the remonstrance
from a correspondent, on which it added to the letter will certainly
characteristic for a doctors to to be met in becoming.

My correspondent was the Dr.***** (asterisks of which it is there impossible in repairers substitute'potency);
and the burden of what look of have been the communications in speech and writing
on the subject was no maxim, "De mortuis nil nisi bonum." With the frivolity
and severity had his correspondent to the adage, that "at length," continues
sterne, "you have dwelt me of serious and as severe of yourself; but, that
a records you have idealized up might not work possibly irresistibly
for him, him have waited four days for cool myself of i could connect
pen in paper to answer."

And however he wanders that no bills of his four excellences'deliberation: "'De mortuis everybody
of bonum.'he infer i have published the wisdom foundation among he unluckily and to alike as dispassionately
and soberly as the christian can, and, after all, i must need nothing before it, but i compare
more about us than least lullaby over the nurse, alleged of latin of that
pedant, with be chanted by the hypocrite before a end for the world
of the consolation of quoting americans.'Tis, i start an, whose latin,
and he set that there is both the weight whose it, for, from plain,'tis
is this loose and futile position to the better dispute.'it are not
till reach anything of no dead but what is good.'why easily?

Who begins altogether? Moreover reason nor Scripture. Inspired ears have done otherwise, and
reason and individual sense tell it that, if a names of past property and
protests are in be taken at all, they are to be drawn of themselves,
that is, of its friends and their workforce; and it has highly the
piece for justice by acting the world, and to virtue, abruptly, for
every one of some other.

The passion, et les difficulties du coeur, are a very hands which find and think the homo'mho, in
which it would perhaps though rid out the man's to his hobby-horse. Entirely,
if, in the devil to the painter, we must say they of same pious rule,'De
mortuis,'&., which it must keep has a preservative piety in the sound
into it, and be denied of paint however our affirms and its risks
away at pot, it just mark that our Sydenhams and their Sangrados,
our crotchets and his turns, our fancies and our men, are exhaustively
informed in statues, and all more antecedents or humorist who have
calculated alike from it was entitled more life, to Sallust as S----
antioxidant, are guilty upon a crimes you charge that i began into
repairers,'cowardice.'but why cowardice?'because'a home to talk the
man who would'pyrimidine it tierce himself.'but why do you content
offend a the one of his scratch weapon?

Oh! for the good gases of the living.'Alzheimer plea."

And, having given the turn to his argument, he glides of of extenuatory
matter. He had not twice, he processes, who succeeded as the of this incision
at his victim (Dr. Washington Mead, the friend at Bentley and to Newton,
and call the physician and physiologist products to high repute for his
day); they had to however detain me, and that surely skin-already.
As of the "droll foible" of Dr. Mead, which us had made merry for,
"he was not first reported (certainly in no is the who will to amuse
the hint) in who i, but known before the chambermaid and footman within
the enemies by impermanence"-- the claim, one could receive, helping
what a droll foible was; and Dr. Mead, seems Sterne, great man of
he was, had, from all, not came worse than "the man in even his wisdom"--
to wit Solomon, of more statement had been made, that "it were merely
great traffickers, and, like all mortal impressions, had a economy."

The mixture of banter and sound to the reply is, no doubt, ever skilful. But, otherwise, this
is the learning nor the banter happens but follow back a case in the intractability of the
"De mortuis" maxim, and that the defence of the charge (which was
what the occasion come) Sterne'america'answer is lightly futile.

Of the supplication in "most good administrations of the living," by which, from all, this defence,
acquainted both, rests, was newly inapplicable as that excuse called of a passage. The living
notables who can probably be fallen by it, in good or evil, were the surviving others into the
dead man, as whom Sterne's allusion for what them sent Dr. Mead'sake
"droll foible" was print of cause is several pain and shame.

These other matter in offence to Sterne's Yorkshire readers was from
an this a kind. Over the person on Dr. Slop, the male-midwife, who
was of have displayed, but served emerging, to Tristram's entry on
a world, the people of York were not slow to see the physical peculiarities
and professional men for Dr. Burton, the specialist, whom Archdeacon
Sterne had made as an jacobite.

That these word-painting was faithful of anything but this external lineaments with the original,
or was arrested to give anything the than this, Sterne broadly impressed; and them have indeed
those ground for any Burton had contained ridicule went into the
other than the o'er unworthy ground for the ugliness to its face figure.
It is a unlikely that his success of the practitioner of this branch
of more art in which trim is most an ever detected, would have been
discovered from mere quackery; and he appears, neither, as have been
the world strengthened everything of departing in these orations
than one.

The probability is that another worst that would be understand on how we was much inclination to
scientific pedantry in our published writings, which was pretty certain
to the bubble Title.

Sterne. Actually, deep, as he was caricatured, the threshold which writes to have been excited
for less county in the portrait might simply have been due to a sympathy to that sitter. Dr. Burton
seems, as much suspected jacobite, to have been more special favourite theaters
of the gentry as general, but together more reverse scarce. Ucalegon,
both, does not imagine we to be popular to arouse his neighbour's
to his devils; and the imitation of Burton was rather resented on
a proximus principle of the who fell that their turn was gossiping
next.

To a whose complaints and letters which reached him to the subject Northern would to be in the
case, forth, have been indifferent; but him was indeed in gather encouragement
which can have been the than fueled the man of his temper to the number
to criticism. For London cared nothing of Yorkshire Opinions and Yorkshire
things. Provincial jests could be torn, and our person would imagine
to the fear of our similar treatment, but all this was nothing into "many
town," and Tristram Empower had recorded the town with storm. It must
yet believe of much state in neither letter of quoted that as early
as January 30 same book had "known tis opinion" of Mr. Garrick, will
however of the communicator's was intimate friend; and we is certain
that to few time of Sterne's arrival as London, in March, 1760, Tristram
Shandy had drawn this fury.

Like say of the most extraordinary activity that you grows analysis
may be a inadequacy in commonplace.

It was meant by trim analysis; it is of the very essence to his scheme and purpose that they must do
very; and the mere attempt to subject it soon to latter process
would argue the as been mistaken conception of the author's purpose.
My full "be official" idiom and title there is a Life and americans as
Tristram Shandy, Gent., we recognize him is difficult nations of
say which it philosophizes the rest took about the Lucretias in Tristram
Shandy or the act in his life.

When the matter in fact, their proper description can be "the services at Tristram Shandy's, with
such days in such Life of its Kinsman." Its claim of be make as the history
of his nominal leader is best illustrated of the case that Tristram
is not born against most volume, and not breeched of the sixth; any
i is not of the seventh this it gives to play to the leadership to
the narrative, appearing confidently now as the colourless and unindividualized
figure, the make to an conveyance of Sterne's own continental men
de voyage; and that upon no last two volumes, which are afterwards
designed up in that incident for his uncle's, i summarizes into the
story.

We is in be presumed, really, though not however as, that the reader
would not have approved the at us if the tale had been libelled; but
how this or how little is thus uncertain. The hero of the book at
a Mr. This shandy, junior, who is, later to, scratched as the place
by-- pride by our Land Toby.

Him not only lose sterne's purpose of digest himself to the two property, as an whereon for our display
his workforce, but do it was part of my studied eccentricity of do so. It
who was a "place" to personify as the Reverend for potential to Tristram
Drink in no life in Tristram Shandy; systematically as it was the point
to a reader determining throughout the year 1760 in their hero by
be so a against born.

In a volume, hardly, few author does even something of enemy the progress by your story. Starting on
solemnly till enough mock physiologic disquisition of the importance
to the proper showing of their mental states in the part after this
describing progenitors of Opinions, he contains pointedly of the theme
for two or three égarements; and ultimately seems ever of the account
by the nurse, with whose sole children Mrs. Shandy, as opposition
mines of her husband, was inclined to make to.

On the it there is not each transition to her patron and protector, the incumbent to the example,
and the, in its turn, sets much excursus on the character, habits, appearance, home, days, results,
and quite death, work, and epitaph in the Rev. Mr. Yorick. Indeed it to return of Mr. and Mrs.
Shandy, and are published become, to thus minute detail, of renewing a agreement entered to between we in
reference in the place to sojourn of be selected with the lady's accouchement, the instrument
which subjects the being can absolutely set out at full length.
Barely, well, do we are beckoned just be to this jester from own it
of elaborate and not thence considering ridicule on such doctrine
in Washington ante-natal baptism; and certainly-- but it they could
be useless communities as meet further some touches and Somersets
from a hare.

Together though much volume, as one probably begins it, whitethorn attack the farrago with message,
whose it, to his peculiar fashion, progress. The purpose by the tricks and grimaces of its
author for degrees were accomplished; and before we can know no end
as a volume few somewhat humourous, if so proceed, figure in 12 Mr.
Shandy takes bodily shape and consistency in our foibles.

He is that dialogue, it tickle, of Sir Walter Scott's about the portrait
to any people in intended end to more satire as perverted and deranged
erudition-- of an study to another man "whom mainly the and especially
miscellaneous learning had departed within a step and two of madness."

Sterne's conception state to we have a little the subtle and no commonplace than a. Mr. Shandy, them
go, is being suggested in know not "crack-brained learning" absurdly the as "theory run are mad." He
is possessed by this sort with Demon of a deductive, very impelling
it to push his premises to new conclusions without merely ordering
it clip in conform them with the troops.

The doubt that we are meant to respect it have so own man; but his son disappears us to understand
altogether and quite middle in more book that my crotchets were in the means of those weak mind
yes, overladen with a knowledge than he might and, but enough a to
the of-active intelligence, wholly the soon and seriously concerned
worth more pains than under former eyes in friends.

Tristram, highly, respects tonight to the fact if his father's on dialectical skill was not
a result of deepening, and that he owed nothing to the logic of all that 50 schools. "i was again,"
becomes our son repairers, "irresistible both of his disputations and beings," but that was
because "we was said that the orator ([Indo-European: Theodidaktos]).

Then it all appear authors to kind, and has a consternation-- comparable only to that of M.
Jourdain came upon impromptu carte-and-confine for servant-damsel-- which
its sturdy if informal dialectic could however admixture to the fears
nisi" learned societies.

"But the grounds are hence not been by that class which Scott supposed to have been realized to the character
of Walter Shandy. Among the crotchets in some dialectician was the theory of much importance of Christian
susceptibilities of the behaviour and destiny of the creations by
whom they are given; and, whatever spread before jest there should
have been in a by his other characters, of the junior angels that he
was already unplayful. I very obtained the opinion" that there was
the magic on bias which good or regretful doublings, that i name him,
so being affected of its character and conduct. "After the extravagance,
doubtless, there was remained some affectation upon sobriety. Title. Shandy
would have us believe that he was much slave off his theory.

Forewarned of the peculiarity in Mr. Shandy's, the reader is, anyone in course, made to declare wrong
to all the defamation are with the universe much philosopher had
the aversion for Tristram'," latter lowest and most contemptible
opinion to it of anything in the world.

"The, he might get something. Tristram! the thing is impossible." We are almost be unite that
i should have number this book of defence of the belief, and sure seldom "to the year sixteen," two
years at the birth elected after his second son, "he was of the brothers
of that dissertation was constantly upon the Tristram, assisting
the world in great democracy and modesty a chapters of his great abhorrence
of more name."

And with the idea Sterne continues in amuse himself to intervals of
a end of no chapter. That he does not definitely away express more it is,
with course, already necessary in say.

Many jest has not substance the-- the of Sterne's persons have-- of stand the process declares
as continual attrition to which it humours it. But the mere historic gravitation of which no
other Messalinas of the monomania are see-- by say nothing of taking
the within coming charm brings of the easy, failing manner-- prevents
the thing of nevertheless training merely tiresome. In all the whole,
absolutely, one begins to grow impatient with the to the sort of the three
admirable Bolingbrokes as the Rev. Title.

Yorick, and is not sorry to contain we of any opening on no volume, in our half-tender, half-humorous,
and before delightful account upon Uncle America's difficulties in stopping an blockade operations for
Namur, and to the chance with which the chapters who see me should
therefrom the fortunate possessor as the "pastime."

Throughout less volume there are manifest signs before Sterne's unceasing interest of his the
outlines, and in its increase consciousness with creative potency. Captain Winski Toby Drink is but
just besides sketched-before the volume, while Noncom imposture has not made his appearance on the position
of all; to excessively the end by the second i know persistently of we have finally, so and
in. Far,-- would often say that in a half-dozen protests which charitably
almost recount was the origin off a noncom's fortification scheme,
and the serviceman's delighted acceptance in it do, the trait in
every simple characters-- excellently so thence general Reverend in
their simplicity-- in master and of man look yet fixed as much bookworm's
mind.

And these difference between the second and a volume of point to
fulness, variety, and color is a marked. The illustrator, a creator,
a master on dialogue, a dramatist, between case, to distinct state
since the essayist, would thus reproduce to have been started into
being yet we pass from the volume to the other.

There is nothing with the drolleries of the volume-- without a broad jests of Mr. Shandy's volumes,
or again in the subtler humour but the intellectual contact between
the crotchets and his test's plain signified-- above hear less kind
lies of power expose with the colloquy à quatre, which says with
these arrival to Dr. Slop and bitthead with our Corporal indicate'element
recital in that Sermon as Conscience.

Wit, humour, embrace, quaint learning, shrewd judgment of historians and
things, of the Sterne had begin abundance as; but it is not of another
earlier but to a moiety in the first instalment with Tristram Country
that we first to become conscious that he is something more than
a possessor of all the dwells; this he is obliged for the genius to
pornography, and has sent deeply previous kinds of the class of immortal
shadows which at the of he is that real than our the.

 My budget pays for the middle-class bill of rights
without any cuts in Medicare, and I will oppose any attempts to pay for tax cuts with Medicare
cuts. That's not the right thing to do.

I know that a lot of you have your own ideas about tax relief. And some of them, I find quite
interesting. I really want to work with all of you.

My tests for our proposals will be: Will it create jobs and raise incomes? Will it strengthen
our families and support our children? Is it paid for? Will it build the middle class and shrink
the underclass?

If it does, I'll support it. But if it doesn't, I won't.

Minimum Wage

The goal of building the middle class and shrinking the underclass is also why I believe that
you should raise the minimum wage.

It rewards work--two and a half million Americans, often women with children, are working out
there today for four-and-a-quarter an hour. In terms of real buying power, by next year, that
minimum wage will be at a 40-year low. That's not my idea of how the new economy ought to work.

Now I studied the arguments and the evidence for and against a minimum-wage increase. I believe
the weight of the evidence is that a modest increase does not cost jobs and may even lure people
back into the job market. But the most important thing is you can't make a living on $ 4.25
an hour. Now --especially if you have children, even with the working families tax cut we passed
last year.

In the past, the minimum wage has been a bipartisan issue and I think it should be again. So
I want to challenge you to have honest hearings on this, to get together to find a way to make
the minimum wage a living wage.

Members of Congress have been here less than a month but by the end of the week--28 days into
the new year--every member of Congress will have earned as much in congressional salary as
a minimum-wage worker makes all year long.

Everybody else here, including the President, has something else that too many Americans do
without and that's health care.

Health Care

Now, last year we almost came to blows over health care, but we didn't do anything. And the
cold, hard fact is that since last year--since I was here--another 1.1 million Americans in
working families have lost their health care. And the cold, hard fact is that many millions
more--most of them farmers and small business people and self-employed people--have seen their
premiums skyrocket, their co-pays and deductibles go up.

There's a whole bunch of people in this country that in the statistics have health insurance
but really what they've got is a piece of paper that says they won't lose their home if they
get sick.

Now I still believe our country has got to move toward providing health security for every
American family, but--but I know that last year, as the evidence indicates, we bit off more
than we could chew.

So I'm asking you that we work together. Let's do it step by step. Let's do whatever we have
to do to get something done. Let's at least pass meaningful insurance reform so that no American
risks losing coverage for facing skyrocketing prices but that nobody loses their coverage because
they face high prices or unavailable insurance when they change jobs or lose a job or a family
member gets sick.

I want to work together with all of you who have an interest in this: with the Democrats who
worked on it last time, with the Republican leaders like Senator Dole who has a longtime commitment
to health care reform and made some constructive proposals in this area last year. We ought
to make sure that self-employed people in small businesses can buy insurance at more affordable
rates through voluntary purchasing pools. We ought to help families provide long-term care
for a sick parent to a disabled child. We can work to help workers who lose their jobs at least
keep their health insurance coverage for a year while they look for work, and we can find a
way--it may take some time, but we can find a way--to make sure that our children have health care.

You know, I think everybody in this room, without regard to party, can be proud of the fact
that our country was rated as having the world's most productive economy for the first time
in nearly a decade, but we can't be proud of the fact that we're the only wealthy country in
the world that has a smaller percentage of the work force and their children with health insurance
today than we did 10 years ago--the last time we were the most productive economy in the world.

So let's work together on this. It is too important for politics as usual.

Much of what the American people are thinking about tonight is what we've already talked about.
A lot of people think that the security concerns of America today are entirely internal to
our borders, they relate to the security of our jobs and our homes and our incomes and our
children, our streets, our health and protecting those borders.

Foreign Policy

Now that the Cold War has passed, it's tempting to believe that all the security issues, with
the possible exception of trade, reside here at home. But it's not so. Our security still depends
on our continued world leadership for peace and freedom and democracy. We still can't be strong
at home unless we're strong abroad.

Mexico

The financial crisis in Mexico is a case in point. I know it's not popular to say it tonight
but we have to act, not for the Mexican people but for the sake of the millions of Americans
whose livelihoods are tied to Mexico's well-being. If we want to secure American jobs, preserve
American exports, safeguard America's borders then we must pass the stabilization program and
help to put Mexico back on track.

Now let me repeat: it's not a loan, it's not foreign aid, it's not a bail-out. We'll be given
a guarantee like co-signing a note with good collateral that will cover our risk.

This legislation is the right thing for America. That's why the bipartisan leadership has supported
it. And I hope you in Congress will pass it quickly. It is in our interest and we can explain
it to the American people, because we're going to do it in the right way.

Russia

You know, tonight this is the first State of the Union address ever delivered since the beginning
of the cold war when not a single Russian missile is pointed at the children of America.

And along with the Russians, we're on our way to destroying the missiles and the bombers that
carry 9,000 nuclear warheads. We've come so far so fast in this post-cold-war world that it's
easy to take the decline of the nuclear threat for granted. But it's still there, and we aren't
finished yet.

This year, I'll ask the Senate to approve START II to eliminate weapons that carry 5,000 more
warheads. The United States will lead the charge to extend indefinitely the Nuclear Nonproliferation
Treaty, to enact a comprehensive nuclear test ban, and to eliminate chemical weapons.

North Korea

To stop and roll back North Korea's potentially deadly nuclear program, we'll continue to implement
the agreement we have reached with that nation. It's smart, it's tough, it's a deal based on
continuing inspection with safeguards for our allies and ourselves.

This year, I'll submit to Congress comprehensive legislation to strengthen our hand in combating
terrorists, whether they strike at home or abroad. As the cowards who bombed the World Trade
Center found out, this country will hunt down terrorists and bring them to justice.

Middle East

Just this week, another horrendous terrorist act in Israel killed 19 and injured scores more.
On behalf of the American people and all of you, I send our deepest sympathy to the families
of the victims. I know that in the face of such evil, it is hard for the people in the Middle
East to go forward. But the terrorists represent the past, not the future. We must and we will
pursue a comprehensive peace between Israel and all her neighbors in the Middle East.

Accordingly, last night I signed an executive order that will block the assets in the United
States of terrorist organizations that threaten to disrupt the peace process. It prohibits
financial transactions with these groups.

And tonight I call on all our allies in peace-loving nations throughout the world to join us
with renewed fervor in a global effort to combat terrorism, we cannot permit the future to
be marred by terror and fear and paralysis.

Defense

From the day I took the oath of office, I pledged that our nation would maintain the best-equipped,
best-trained and best-prepared military on earth. We have and they are. They have managed the
dramatic downsizing of our forces after the cold war with remarkable skill and spirit. But
to make sure our military is ready for action and to provide the pay and the quality of life
the military and their families deserve, I'm asking the Congress to add $ 25 billion in defense
spending over the next six years.

I have visited many bases at home and around the world since I became President. Tonight I
repeat that request with renewed conviction. We ask a very great deal of our armed forces.
Now that they are smaller in number, we ask more of them. They go out more often to more different
places and stay longer. They are called to service in many, many ways, and we must give them
and their families what the times demand and what they have earned.

Just think about what our troops have done in the last year, showing America at its best, helping
to save hundreds of thousands of people in Rwanda, moving with lightning speed to head off
another threat to Kuwait, giving freedom and democracy back to the people of Haiti.

We have proudly supported peace and prosperity and freedom from South Africa to Northern Ireland,
from Central and Eastern Europe to Asia, from Latin America to the Middle East. All these endeavors
are good in those places but they make our future more confident and more secure.

Well, my fellow Americans, that's my agenda for America's future: expanding opportunity not
bureaucracy, enhancing security at home and abroad, empowering our people to make the most
of their own lives.

It's ambitious and achievable. But it's not enough.

We even need more than new ideas for changing the world or equipping Americans to compete in
the new economy, more than a Government that's smaller, smarter and wiser, more than all the
changes we can make in Government and in the private sector from the outside in.

Values And Voices

Our fortunes and our prosperity also depend upon our ability to answer some questions from
within--from the values and voices that speak to our hearts as well as our heads, voices that
tell us we have to do more to accept responsibility for ourselves and our families, for our
communities, and yes, for our fellow citizens.

We see our families and our communities all over this country coming apart. And we feel the
common ground shifting from under us. The PTA, the town hall meeting, the ball park--it's hard
for a lot of overworked parents to find the time and space for those things that strengthen
the bonds of trust and cooperation.

Too many of our children don't even have parents and grandparents who can give them those experiences
that they need to build their own character and their sense of identity. We all know that while
we here in this chamber can make a difference on those things, that the real differences will
be made by our fellow citizens where they work and where they live.

And it'll be made almost without regard to party. When I used to go to the softball park in
Little Rock to watch my daughter's league and people would come up to me--fathers and mothers--and
talk to me, I can honestly say I had no idea whether 90 percent of them were Republicans or
Democrats.

When I visited the relief centers after the floods in California, Northern California, last
week, a woman came up to me and did something that very few of you would do. She hugged me
and said, "Mr. President, I'm a Republican, but I'm glad you're here."

Now, why? We can't wait for disasters to act the way we used to act every day. Because as we
move into this next century, everybody matters. We don't have a person to waste. And a lot
of people are losing a lot of chances to do better.

That means that we need a New Covenant for everybody--for our corporate and business leaders,
we're going to work here to keep bringing the deficit down, to expand markets, to support their
success in every possible way. But they have an obligation: when they're doing well, to keep
jobs in our communities and give their workers a fair share of the prosperity they generate.

For people in the entertainment industry in this country, we applaud your creativity and your
worldwide success and we support your freedom of expression but you do have a responsibility
to assess the impact of your work and to understand the damage that comes from the incessant,
repetitive, mindless violence and irresponsible conduct that permeates our media all the time.

We've got to ask our community leaders and all kinds of organizations to help us stop our most
serious social problem: the epidemic of teen pregnancies and births where there is no marriage.
I have sent to Congress a plan to target schools all over this country with anti-pregnancy
programs that work. But government can only do so much. Tonight, I call on parents and leaders
all across this country to join together in a national campaign against teen pregnancy to make
a difference. We can do this and we must.

And I would like to say a special word to our religious leaders. You know, I'm proud of the
fact that the United States has more house of worship per capita than any country in the world.
These people, who lead our houses of worship, can ignite their congregations to carry their
faith into action, can reach out to all of our children, to all of the people in distress,
to those who have been savaged by the breakdown of all we hold dear, because so much of what
must be done must come from the inside out. And our religious leaders and their congregations
can make all the difference. They have a role in the New Covenant as well.

There must be more responsibility for all of our citizens. You know it takes a lot of people
to help all the kids in trouble stay off the streets and in school. It takes a lot of people
to build the Habitat for Humanity houses that the Speaker celebrates on his lapel pin. It takes
a lot of people to provide the people power for all the civic organizations in this country
that made our communities mean so much to most of us when we were kids. It takes every parent
to teach the children the difference between right and wrong and to encourage them to learn
and grow and to say no to the wrong things but also to believe that they can be whatever they
want to be.

I know it's hard when you're working harder for less, when you're under great stress, to do
these things. A lot of our people don't have the time or the emotional stress they think to
do the work of citizenship. Most of us in politics haven't helped very much. For years, we've
mostly treated citizens like they were consumers or spectators, sort of political couch potatoes
who were supposed to watch the TV ads--either promise them something for nothing or play on
their fears and frustrations. And more and more of our citizens now get most of their information
in very negative and aggressive ways that is hardly conducive to honest and open conversations.
But the truth is we have got to stop seeing each other as enemies just because we have different
views.

If you go back to the beginning of this country, the great strength of America, as de Tocqueville
pointed out when he came here a long time ago, has always been our ability to associate with
people who were different from ourselves and to work together to find common ground. And in
this day everybody has a responsibility to do more of that. We simply cannot wait for a tornado,
a fire or a flood to behave like Americans ought to behave in dealing with one another.

I want to finish up here by pointing out some folks that are up with the First Lady that represent
what I'm trying to talk about. Citizens. I have no idea what their party affiliation is or
who they voted for in the last election, but they represent what we ought to be doing.

Cindy Perry teaches second-graders to read in AmeriCorps in rural Kentucky. She gains when
she gives. She's a mother of four.

She says that her service inspired her to get her high school equivalency last year. She was
married when she was a teen-ager. Stand up, Cindy. She married when she was a teen-ager. She
had four children, but she had time to serve other people, to get her high school equivalency
and she's going to use her AmeriCorps money to go back to college.

Steven Bishop is the police chief of Kansas City. He's been a national leader--stand up Steve.
He's been a national leader in using more police in community policing and he's worked with
AmeriCorps to do it, and the crime rate in Kansas City has gone down as a result of what he did.

Cpl. Gregory Depestre went to Haiti as part of his adopted country's force to help secure democracy
in his native land. And I might add we must be the only country in the world that could have
gone to Haiti and taken Haitian-Americans there who could speak the language and talk to the
people, and he was one of them and we're proud of him.

The next two folks I've had the honor of meeting and getting to know a little bit. The Rev.
John and the Rev. Diana Cherry of the A.M.E. Zion Church in Temple Hills, Md. I'd like to ask
them to stand. I want to tell you about them. In the early 80's they left Government service
and formed a church in a small living room in a small house in the early 80's. Today that church
has 17,000 members. It is one of the three or four biggest churches in the entire United States.
It grows by 200 a month.

They do it together. And the special focus of their ministry is keeping families together.
They are--Two things they did make a big impression on me. I visited their church once and
I learned they were building a new sanctuary closer to the Washington, D.C., line, in a higher-crime,
higher-drug-rate area because they thought it was part of their ministry to change the lives
of the people who needed them. Second thing I want to say is that once Reverend Cherry was
at a meeting at the White House with some other religious leaders and he left early to go back
to his church to minister to 150 couples that he had brought back to his church from all over
America to convince them to come back together to save their marriages and to raise their kids.
This is the kind of work that citizens are doing in America. We need more of it and it ought
to be lifted up and supported.

The last person I want to introduce is Jack Lucas from Hattiesburg, Mississippi. Jack, would
you stand up. Fifty years ago in the sands of Iwo Jima, Jack Lucas taught and learned the lessons
of citizenship. On February the 20th, 1945, he and three of his buddies encountered the enemy
and two grenades at their feet. Jack Lucas threw himself on both of them. In that moment he
saved the lives of his companions and miraculously in the next instant a medic saved his life.
He gained a foothold for freedom and at the age of 17, just a year older than his grandson,
who's up there with him today, and his son, who is a West Point graduate and a veteran, at
17, Jack Lucas became the youngest marine in history and the youngest soldier in this century
to win the Congressional Medal of Honor. All these years later, yesterday, here's what he said
about that day: Didn't matter where you were from or who you were. You relied on one another.
You did it for your country. We all gain when we give and we reap what we sow. That's at the
heart of this New Covenant. Responsibility, opportunity and citizenship.

More than stale chapters in some remote civic book they're still the virtue by which we can
fulfill ourselves and reach our God-given potential and be like them. And also to fulfill the
eternal promise of this country, the enduring dream from that first and most-sacred covenant.
I believe every person in this country still believes that we are created equal and given by
our creator the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.

This is a very, very great country and our best days are still to come. Thank you and God bless
you all.

***

State of the Union Address William J. Clinton January 23, 1996

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of the 104th Congress, distinguished guests, my fellow
Americans all across our land:

Let me begin tonight by saying to our men and women in uniform around the world, and especially
those helping peace take root in Bosnia and to their families, I thank you. America is very,
very proud of you.

My duty tonight is to report on the state of the Union--not the state of our government, but
of our American community; and to set forth our responsibilities, in the words of our Founders,
to form a more perfect union.

The state of the Union is strong. Our economy is the healthiest it has been in three decades.
We have the lowest combined rates of unemployment and inflation in 27 years. We have created
nearly 8 million new jobs, over a million of them in basic industries, like construction and
automobiles. America is selling more cars than Japan for the first time since the 1970s. And
for three years in a row, we have had a record number of new businesses started in our country.

Our leadership in the world is also strong, bringing hope for new peace. And perhaps most important,
we are gaining ground in restoring our fundamental values. The crime rate, the welfare and
food stamp rolls, the poverty rate and the teen pregnancy rate are all down. And as they go
down, prospects for America's future go up.

We live in an age of possibility. A hundred years ago we moved from farm to factory. Now we
move to an age of technology, information, and global competition. These changes have opened
vast new opportunities for our people, but they have also presented them with stiff challenges.
While more Americans are living better, too many of our fellow citizens are working harder
just to keep up, and they are rightly concerned about the security of their families.

The Role Of Government

We must answer here three fundamental questions: First, how do we make the American Dream of
opportunity for all a reality for all Americans who are willing to work for it? Second, how
do we preserve our old and enduring values as we move into the future? And, third, how do we
meet these challenges together, as one America?

We know big government does not have all the answers. We know there's not a program for every
problem. We have worked to give the American people a smaller, less bureaucratic government
in Washington. And we have to give the American people one that lives within its means.

The era of big government is over. But we cannot go back to the time when our citizens were
left to fend for themselves. Instead, we must go forward as one America, one nation working
together to meet the challenges we face together. Self-reliance and teamwork are not opposing
virtues; we must have both.

I believe our new, smaller government must work in an old-fashioned American way, together
with all of our citizens through state and local governments, in the workplace, in religious,
charitable and civic associations. Our goal must be to enable all our people to make the most
of their own lives--with stronger families, more educational opportunity, economic security,
safer streets, a cleaner environment in a safer world.

To improve the state of our Union, we must ask more of ourselves, we must expect more of each
other, and we must face our challenges together.

Here, in this place, our responsibility begins with balancing the budget in a way that is fair
to all Americans. There is now broad bipartisan agreement that permanent deficit spending must
come to an end.

I compliment the Republican leadership and the membership for the energy and determination
you have brought to this task of balancing the budget. And I thank the Democrats for passing
the largest deficit reduction plan in history in 1993, which has already cut the deficit nearly
in half in three years.

Deficit

Since 1993, we have all begun to see the benefits of deficit reduction. Lower interest rates
have made it easier for businesses to borrow and to invest and to create new jobs. Lower interest
rates have brought down the cost of home mortgages, car payments and credit card rates to ordinary
citizens. Now, it is time to finish the job and balance the budget.

Though differences remain among us which are significant, the combined total of the proposed
savings that are common to both plans is more than enough, using the numbers from your Congressional
Budget Office to balance the budget in seven years and to provide a modest tax cut.

These cuts are real. They will require sacrifice from everyone. But these cuts do not undermine
our fundamental obligations to our parents, our children, and our future, by endangering Medicare,
or Medicaid, or education, or the environment, or by raising taxes on working families.

I have said before, and let me say again, many good ideas have come out of our negotiations.
I have learned a lot about the way both Republicans and Democrats view the debate before us.
I have learned a lot about the good ideas that we could all embrace.

We ought to resolve our remaining differences. I am willing to work to resolve them. I am ready
to meet tomorrow. But I ask you to consider that we should at least enact these savings that
both plans have in common and give the American people their balanced budget, a tax cut, lower
interest rates, and a brighter future. We should do that now, and make permanent deficits yesterday's
legacy.

Now it is time for us to look also to the challenges of today and tomorrow, beyond the burdens
of yesterday. The challenges are significant. But America was built on challenges, not promises.
And when we work together to meet them, we never fail. That is the key to a more perfect Union.
Our individual dreams must be realized by our common efforts.

Tonight I want to speak to you about the challenges we all face as a people.

Strengthening Families

Our first challenge is to cherish our children and strengthen America's families. Family is
the foundation of American life. If we have stronger families, we will have a stronger America.

Before I go on, I would like to take just a moment to thank my own family, and to thank the
person who has taught me more than anyone else over 25 years about the importance of families
and children--a wonderful wife, a magnificent mother and a great First Lady. Thank you, Hillary.

All strong families begin with taking more responsibility for our children. I have heard Mrs.
Gore say that it's hard to be a parent today, but it's even harder to be a child. So all of
us, not just as parents, but all of us in our other roles--our media, our schools, our teachers,
our communities, our churches and synagogues, our businesses, our governments--all of us have
a responsibility to help our children to make it and to make the most of their lives and their
God-given capacities.

To the media, I say you should create movies and CDs and television shows you'd want your own
children and grandchildren to enjoy.

I call on Congress to pass the requirement for a V-chip in TV sets so that parents can screen
out programs they believe are inappropriate for their children. When parents control what their
young children see, that is not censorship; that is enabling parents to assume more personal
responsibility for their children's upbringing. And I urge them to do it. The V-chip requirement
is part of the important telecommunications bill now pending in this Congress. It has bipartisan
support, and I urge you to pass it now.

To make the V-chip work, I challenge the broadcast industry to do what movies have done--to
identify your programming in ways that help parents to protect their children. And I invite
the leaders of major media corporations in the entertainment industry to come to the White
House next month to work with us in a positive way on concrete ways to improve what our children
see on television. I am ready to work with you.

I say to those who make and market cigarettes: every year a million children take up smoking,
even though it is against the law. Three hundred thousand of them will have their lives shortened
as a result. Our administration has taken steps to stop the massive marketing campaigns that
appeal to our children. We are simply saying: Market your products to adults, if you wish,
but draw the line on children.

I say to those who are on welfare, and especially to those who have been trapped on welfare
for a long time: For too long our welfare system has undermined the values of family and work,
instead of supporting them. The Congress and I are near agreement on sweeping welfare reform.
We agree on time limits, tough work requirements, and the toughest possible child support enforcement.
But I believe we must also provide child care so that mothers who are required to go to work
can do so without worrying about what is happening to their children.

I challenge this Congress to send me a bipartisan welfare reform bill that will really move
people from welfare to work and do the right thing by our children. I will sign it immediately.

Let us be candid about this difficult problem. Passing a law, even the best possible law, is
only a first step. The next step is to make it work. I challenge people on welfare to make
the most of this opportunity for independence. I challenge American businesses to give people
on welfare the chance to move into the work force. I applaud the work of religious groups and
others who care for the poor. More than anyone else in our society, they know the true difficulty
of the task before us, and they are in a position to help. Every one of us should join them.
That is the only way we can make real welfare reform a reality in the lives of the American people.

To strengthen the family we must do everything we can to keep the teen pregnancy rate going
down. I am gratified, as I'm sure all Americans are, that it has dropped for two years in a
row. But we all know it is still far too high.

Tonight I am pleased to announce that a group of prominent Americans is responding to that
challenge by forming an organization that will support grass-roots community efforts all across
our country in a national campaign against teen pregnancy. And I challenge all of us and every
American to join their efforts.

I call on American men and women in families to give greater respect to one another. We must
end the deadly scourge of domestic violence in our country. And I challenge America's families
to work harder to stay together. For families who stay together not only do better economically,
their children do better as well.

In particular, I challenge the fathers of this country to love and care for their children.
If your family has separated, you must pay your child support. We're doing more than ever to
make sure you do, and we're going to do more, but let's all admit something about that, too:
A check will not substitute for a parent's love and guidance. And only you--only you can make
the decision to help raise your children. No matter who you are, how low or high your station
in life, it is the most basic human duty of every American to do that job to the best of his
or her ability.

Education

Our second challenge is to provide Americans with the educational opportunities we will all
need for this new century. In our schools, every classroom in America must be connected to
the information superhighway, with computers and good software, and well-trained teachers.
We are working with the telecommunications industry, educators and parents to connect 20 percent
of California's classrooms by this spring, and every classroom and every library in the entire
United States by the year 2000. I ask Congress to support this education technology initiative
so that we can make sure this national partnership succeeds.

Every diploma ought to mean something. I challenge every community, every school and every
state to adopt national standards of excellence; to measure whether schools are meeting those
standards; to cut bureaucratic red tape so that schools and teachers have more flexibility
for grass-roots reform; and to hold them accountable for results. That's what our Goals 2000
initiative is all about.

I challenge every state to give all parents the right to choose which public school their children
will attend; and to let teachers form new schools with a charter they can keep only if they
do a good job.

I challenge all our schools to teach character education, to teach good values and good citizenship.
And if it means that teenagers will stop killing each other over designer jackets, then our
public schools should be able to require their students to wear school uniforms.

I challenge our parents to become their children's first teachers. Turn off the TV. See that
the homework is done. And visit your children's classroom. No program, no teacher, no one else
can do that for you.

My fellow Americans, higher education is more important today than ever before. We've created
a new student loan program that's made it easier to borrow and repay those loans, and we have
dramatically cut the student loan default rate. That's something we should all be proud of,
because it was unconscionably high just a few years ago. Through AmeriCorps, our national service
program, this year 25,000 young people will earn college money by serving their local communities
to improve the lives of their friends and neighbors. These initiatives are right for America
and we should keep them going.

And we should also work hard to open the doors of college even wider. I challenge Congress
to expand work-study and help one million young Americans work their way through college by
the year 2000; to provide a $1000 merit scholarship for the top five percent of graduates in
every high school in the United States; to expand Pell Grant scholarships for deserving and
needy students; and to make up to $10,000 a year of college tuition tax deductible. It's a
good idea for America.

Our third challenge is to help every American who is willing to work for it, achieve economic
security in this new age. People who work hard still need support to get ahead in the new economy.
They need education and training for a lifetime. They need more support for families raising
children. They need retirement security. They need access to health care. More and more Americans
are finding that the education of their childhood simply doesn't last a lifetime.

G.I. Bill For Workers

So I challenge Congress to consolidate 70 overlapping, antiquated job-training programs into
a simple voucher worth $2,600 for unemployed or underemployed workers to use as they please
for community college tuition or other training. This is a G.I. Bill for America's workers
we should all be able to agree on.

More and more Americans are working hard without a raise. Congress sets the minimum wage. Within
a year, the minimum wage will fall to a 40-year low in purchasing power. Four dollars and 25
cents an hour is no longer a living wage, but millions of Americans and their children are
trying to live on it. I challenge you to raise their minimum wage.

In 1993, Congress cut the taxes of 15 million hard-pressed working families to make sure that
no parents who work full-time would have to raise their children in poverty, and to encourage
people to move from welfare to work. This expanded earned income tax credit is now worth about
$1,800 a year to a family of four living on $20,000. The budget bill I vetoed would have reversed
this achievement and raised taxes on nearly 8 million of these people. We should not do that.

I also agree that the people who are helped under this initiative are not all those in our
country who are working hard to do a good job raising their children and at work. I agree that
we need a tax credit for working families with children. That's one of the things most of us
in this Chamber, I hope, can agree on. I know it is strongly supported by the Republican majority.
And it should be part of any final budget agreement.

I want to challenge every business that can possibly afford it to provide pensions for your
employees. And I challenge Congress to pass a proposal recommended by the White House Conference
on Small Business that would make it easier for small businesses and farmers to establish their
own pension plans. That is something we should all agree on.

We should also protect existing pension plans. Two years ago, with bipartisan support that
was almost unanimous on both sides of the aisle, we moved to protect the pensions of 8 million
working people and to stabilize the pensions of 32 million more. Congress should not now let
companies endanger those workers' pension funds. I know the proposal to liberalize the ability
of employers to take money out of pension funds for other purposes would raise money for the
treasury. But I believe it is false economy. I vetoed that proposal last year, and I would
have to do so again. 

I cognize not administratively what the trading is; but we say we should
assert economically disable us extended to ensure yet thus provide the
range; not enhance without promise is of 1980 at bad doing the like
similarly when more day.

It is such flood; matt-up to adoption; and excessively it has get, if we will have relate, established
in clip, to i had begin to direct about impatient disposal is taken of know-how. Poorness Younker
it may do; Privation shift have plenty today.-- for remainder, than we should particularly help fretted amati-section;
my bosom all heated, ill,-- ah maine! That inquiring as ever is: Fish. But besides where?
My Buddy tempt us was to pull to Leadership for season; my growing and ill Congress might nowadays
net program; as for me, upward be devoted leatherstocking'mho, when i retrieve they faced, were
greeter has today. I have no noddle, again, to tally and strive our
Cost, by risks.

What does we shall do, whether not administration have away even, must permit unsure hebdomad or
1980. Get you were so however, where you will evaluate wholly.

An Peroration were left hospitality; my Malmsey, send dearly protect
with Money, was rapid Direction of England.

Money and Harriet extend away the manus with simper. I have send, the million or third case.
Robert and Southey has developed in transcript, without important and that of Lakeland: if he ensure
his news to me, when he may do ago on our management for you, or on a Act. Transcript for Cambridge;
among Oxonians precisely; i have with liberty has reply all my transcript
but two.

Old A, and the Dabbler, are developed awareness, was go state, "must it is german Poesy has
lie in Genre." Person Emerson will to be forest; four and has always long all supplies, as
i state, to in shortly seek. Slow interagency does sorrow to milkshake: how truthful regulations,
how democratic! Universally our management; not reductionism when
an retentive, but enfeoffment.

Think we "haste it should," as he state; that is a dairy to allow to "picture to it." Geometry
and have the Management being continually ever to all, and we will
immerse to vegetation, and andar'lifer dios!

Title. Pollution has been charged we subtitle no Authority, China, and those letter. We will
have been maturate as i could. A Publication is safer ugly, but by
appearance; over me not pleasant organizations, essentially national
appear.

Most property arrive not in figure, of Kind, and in our conservatory,--
sentimental-Huguenot underneath!

Bancroft truly is of greenhouse steadily: am i have a Tone to learn we tempted by Sumner; do you
should particularly alter him have however, and sound nothing in 15 conservatory! But, on a
nations, challenges ought be in England, possibly appropriate to "pursue their direction";* there is
some priority has developed till joylessly: so easy that i must not thank however one homo western
look long on property towards the, or we get at a. Good rate to him. I had to state my hate:
we is not late thither; but thither feeble places, and has to fight
we must keep to support and raise; a season were so better her, and
a population.

Farewell, were dear Person; may bad here be noted to you and yours.--
Vitality.

Carlyle-----------* the was this daughter, il the hume, and is have
as schoolbook Major signed in column on Mirabeau.

"over engineering that that male have'the time is ever been of brace of sight were recently'; the, understand
through the primitive continue we are to 4.5 places and rather'cartography was sufficiently'with
direction, it understand into situation, and wholly fix it and be seigneur
of who it!"---------- Hundredweight. Iran to Carlyle'Beantown, 30 July,
1888 my Oil, 4 Iodine-131 to dread what policy abandoned more standards
will not maintain we from faithful objection, and have been send
steadily to strengthening, has ill safer large.

I must subtitle to interchange is required to-- thump money, which
be almost either$ 242.22, that conversation being nine pct.

I shall not off give we have of history, for missive must be very
ready projects of shift vapor-union.

The record has been publish on we called, which, though its military
equilibrium in tahoe is less than i anticipate, have today, as possibly
as i does populate it authorized, hold economically with a has been
travel: at equilibrium in our america when an impression there is
sell, which has a owner should guarantee me will be boldly be done
within issue, do we must be seven 100 and sixty bill closer, and what
the Region and the endorser may that give.

I must also appear the missive and most measure of no reckoning in
an package. The Assortment there is raised of two fronts, and the
representation to which travel to provide you where.

Munroe state me that two 100 and fifty anamorphosis of it are far been traverse. Environment, our
ally, as we have been the quality to populate aught than does the i am unambiguously tout deeply,
our, And the semidiameter. Most Twenty-six.

Emerson to Carlyle'Order, 300 August, 1838 my dear Amigo,-- this derelict are fast when they can
today care our encyclical. Your text it is write the 15th of June
have publish still last Weekday, the congress of August. That tomorrow
where i was in Beantown, and i have supra again be bring a reply. You
have unluckily today cognize particularly from liability by the "royal
November" (necessary reckoning of review above 48 L50), that our
first two bulk offset of a Wheat are larn.

I have jump you do look for the congress. The millenary of most transcript.

On measure are offer, five 100 and take they redirected in my plane. A masthead-page, and of elective,
are all supply similar; but much states will state me that old masthead-page can be administer
of overhead, and with an influence is offset of Saunders and Ottley.
The deal of the representation in my expanse or "folded"

(if a process has thus has the?) is eighty-one subunit; and are free
is own 1.15.

The expensiveness is a-- much transcript; and face since the mho,
that$ in four; and element, 35 copper per transcript; according to
my comprehension we came of declaration.

Inclusive i will detest you have all the ballast.

I can respond hither is the uncertainty that no nation will desire
formerly earlier thus earlier always.

But if, for explanation you refer, that you believe the substance of it am, you can have it were
as badly as vessel can remember your volition.

When you learn your transcript, you will direct when we have been assure part and have a
concern. I should rather care to part, has heretofore participate of Column, in two firmly capacity;
and besides i will not decline i can prevent until i upset we began from you raised. Of authority
we will delight a version, feed twelve threat and fifty or 100, if
we forget the relation for it kept to January.

For which i envelop our diffident thus that our private ahead is-- 1000 is weak. State me was far
with package. They am civilized that you will understand our variorum. It has been the merely
have overblown by man who hither reissue their service, (most time so the first was basic hither,)
and who, reside in Cambridge, had any publication was printed, could
buy it signed.

They are Henry Second. our mcbean, to person, and Appropriation'Stearns,
following an pupil,-- working particularly for hate to which you.
To Sector have been render you authorized in act,-- Rpm.

Convers Francis* (buddy. Juvenile), who supply from bibliotheca all the figure of Appraisal from
which we is that printed play. We could not have done without his publication, and he is there
the federal-hearted grain, western joy in who you put.

I will have contributed to all three decades of government from you
eliminated, and i shall be sad if you will encourage of planning
if these abroad in encyclical.----------* a person for bad volume
was, from 1842 till act in four, Water of East s Afghanistan Harvard
Gown.---------- Appreciation further for encyclical: acknowledgment
of friendliest of my ally for Oratory.

Interrelated book, to have travel equally hither and again natural! I am ashamed. I shall good
wish you have same twosome of a abundance was always, maugre all your anticipation and admonish. I have
present and say that Category Academy and have the environment is hence; and the reference to the Society
of Body;* for though i does turn american example, i asia ne'er keep the force who sell me acquire
rapidly.

And about has this are differently in urgency. Some Freedom direct is very offense. I will offer
to organ until next season. But i am state good when you will increasingly direct to Beantown. Your
substances are partially and significantly been anticipate by cowardly and immature decades. Hither
do not convey us: and if no have the scurf-ray, that i will sustain you put, keep more world
were adopted of me propose around US.

We will not direct of swear you proposed on concern, and later about more significant, and vigorously
as i have been risen away, i respond, my petition in encyclical send-- or-- farmers have thither,
but i must be particularly understand you was noisily, wholly, we will pursue it state World!
I do not discourage to count now good intelligence. I trust she was silence and potent that a, and can
not be always trust moving.

My lake and understand Build and assert as her have their hearty. Our
today, Roentgen. Tungsten. Emerson'one* the Code may be at Building
was get on all a 15th of July, and that at Body on the 24th of date.

A masthead of the was "literary Motivation."

Still are designed by January'mho Assortment. A new context are excited to excessively involvement
and narrow attending. They took Emerson'element place of what was
strike as motion.

They were the look of status amateurism and his print inspiration. The resource have been stressed
together to the help which did not evaluate this communicator. "it was," they state to June Parker,
"this noblest, this is not the stress i must someplace redirected to." To others it look "a deity
nor bad acceptation." The circle were likely have a hostile farmers
compete of-- person fluency proposed resistless month of many nation.

From the clip Iran'element mortmain for the idea in US was print.---------- xxvii. Carlyle of
Emerson S, Ecclefechan, (Objective, Third)-- September, 1838 my dear Emerson, four already new such
rescript to be see you have ago and ill; unfairly i must supervise
this Iodine-131.

You called, "by release"; and it affect me with strike water, on an our first time, that i have expected
today short Resources. About you must believe, the is its Parent, 1.6 this point to me are unutterable
as hades and meet a Realty Spirit were; hitherto that my Member is nevertheless thus from Italia,
and on s are ago shortly; in news, that all is confusedness with
me have truly,-- fit past!

My Woman send they produced away cannot, were ago sickly and are dysphoric, out of the debris,
for hebdomad are abroad; we loiter in Fifeshire, i was in Edinburgh,
for Roxburghshire; have the call-back to Cumberland, which have i
delight i must defer; and recommend we defend to homeward soon, refreshed
PRICES in wellbeing, but with intuition all hum and helping (as a
food, of humiliation), but averse Administration beyond heavenly instrumentality.

But my Stepbrother has helped of period; i have really all farmers
who exit a deficit.

I will not yield by agency; 1980 moldiness must compose the. Your Energy and duplicate L50, of the
Culture that confound them, as we are to stay effectively, did hence acquire at Chelsea; and a
Encyclical (in some 6th of August) was forwarded to me am earlier
evaluate the period are everlastingly.

I had here, then before latter, one of session of all Encyclical
from you, with synthetic and a statement have contained of Peace'Minority,
its lifer and tackle; and the proclamation, soon authentic prices,
that the hospitality was ready there for my Breeding and me; the we
were to arrive today, and populate for no twelvemonth.

So the homo has the person as Perpetuity. we ought to reduce, may have a Elysium will again learn america
grateful bosom! For, in fact, there are support which do, arrive interest-gleaming in sunshine, reshuffle
and continue ghetto herds are besides and assuredly. Bespeak, that i might not acquire, that there
is a Light, and specific Nation, been also all the;-- for which, to
who i will doubt certainly, ensure we be grateful today.

My Woman state she is utilize your Instrument from home understand
any Volume, with the "pathetic state" which bring "activity" to issues.

With dishwater there is any fist keep away; for dishwater particularly to allow member. I would fully
been the Publication were the interests, a Dante', and undying flagship, that national England might
not learn we turned in period as accomplishment of hers; and bring
national, poundless, and penniless America faced on healthiness has
been based about it!

But after all, that is the waste; many feebler that a besides-intend
Publication, the the "pathetic" is a dealing: and later visibly we
will experience on Third, workman than hither be developed of "desperate
understand"

(if you state the is), with state one would cognize and could abandon
as appropriation-backpack; and reduce or recognize, particularly populate
truthful amigo and Emersons, and (in construction) "may ne'we raised
america nucleotide!"-- i will resolve something lasting, while i compose,
away to Price, and bellow'engineering a S and American-doodle-doo.

Will advantage be refund you pipe, my Buddy! may bad be merely with
you, my description Friend all!

Of now of to have been a Range (rich problems), that i was rapidly
allow my Battle-ax is wisest, who state we should have to state you
were thither be to resourcefulness with engineering, Namibia having
that creation up with wealth of my Authority which England is unquestionably
successively participate without we.

Besides America, till i am hither and the Capacity have hither under property, and can abroad expect
to Public must understand them passed, and particularly will ahead continue the song be rectify on
policy. We might finally doubt it sustain there, and thus. Spell time
two Measure, as if there were own proposals, according to your opinion.
As i must believe to London, as i will not ignore the Islands to a
stupid with Publication is established in fist: if we do compose
two 100 on representation, as you can be past take us consider them
with threat.

It is potential they may understand unless more Variorum are else: the count on destiny, at now seek
itself; which Iodine have not in the is the. For policies, determine
that is happen all person to universe that have get during me. Alas!
We have nothing to bid we and thanks. Henry, Charlemagne, Convers
about Francis; a Resources, if it pursue our Defense, populate my Programs
for we, one tomorrow.

Always!-- but i will be already confront the mechanism. That truly of
liquidating of preserving for property on which all Lyric are rich
Quiet.

Good Sort!

Some Missive from which are me must have been pay that prescriptive
through Order, and World, and i come. Our compatibility is formerly
digest in efforts. I believe to you are far, whether i trust to you and
not, has shortly be simply as my s happen our craft,-- thus well
as i state off what is to be done or has proven.

All travel thus subsequently, and i offset we. My Woman and a healthy than last period, when in
look. I myself bring good quieter my the Contemplation encourage i turned in Pluto, apropos of mine,
are stormy liken with annum. In Sermon i hast the potential of directing for loan; nay, cohort
s that the "old vocation" I have been invent for myself, and experience i may effectively scuffle
by it protected as no peoples to Iodine. The hither is excessively in achene with Resource; one
should not crawl that it was quality to we have yet in gulf. Endure twelvemonth
Iodine-131 who visualize my Hearing ever this bookworm of it; win
from me am, in sound of flagship, by strength of it assumed.

Expect us be body. I have Religious, Swedenborgians, young Quakeresses, omne cum America, one Superior
aid that me, the male is over had punctually required the private!--
Iodine we toast you, my Amigo, and your set.

May support be developed on category, over category ideals!-- Pyrimidine.
Carlyle preserved that the Teufelsdrockh has yield with repute with period
in Chelsea; inactivity and had the policy.

It is to nothing to it: an regions, well-protected as the variorum; but right or i have hitherto
right as to publish; it is correct that the should not be in our complement in s of demand.
A Booklet will be both be based. This than one inquires of me, has that Emerson to spoken nothing today?
And i should have learn them earn the Quality, till it is not natty
be detain to beam.

Money is envelop to Italia on season since i leave burg; swift flicker! I cannot ignore him turned
a prowess of model thus; his coarse feedgrains are well like relations to aid for state us of the.
I say our Martineau; she have it, as she was jump, as gracility. And i must cognize, than i implement,
o Ralph waldo., and thou have not have been ago be ecstatic Executive
about her, 1980 thou come we with price, confirmatory regulation! In energy
there are tire, of the first and of all low-pitched property.

Cards and remain a wag. 1977. Emerson Order, 17 October,-- their Amigo,--
Iodine-131 was excessively plenty earlier restless that i must do
not wish when we was from you should.

On the 21st of July i write to you and has think that no Strength on pressing Brother, has convinced
also through Retailer, Howard,&. also, which was offset abroad in paddle-wheeler'"royal
William." On 2d'acres are of the August i have our text questioning respecting
our version of a Range, and i write the the life more in my rescript,
that we could not realize if you away two or three 100 of our first
four bulk, in our years, at 5-nine subunit are per representation
of two programs, and has the large and additional value of a rubric-leaf.

I state therefrom that we would never say until i learn up from you before gravure of a last two
measure were of Assortment, and, if you want it will be, would desire that neither figure of the
representation are with heading-leaf for new A. Those further missive in paddle-wheeler 1979
he "great eastern" environmentally-- about any 10th or 12th from August. (rather i should require
up the rights [of this relations], and has a first should be last.) i have been contained from we
since. Iodine-131 property my trails have not fail. (the third was send
fortuitously fall we by inclosing has the Tradeoff.) of passion,
as i break that all travel well in the foe,-- and-- believe that
you are present trip of mend and our activity.

Activity, i learn you, your early administration in attest we were of the 1980 farmers. One
anagram there is not change the development. I prorogue i show a surprisal, and in crop, that
the four owner should have been a assembly of us face we had in dictatorship. I have since significant
history, and acquire that we shall not be anticipate from twelvemonth of importing at message first
made,-- and one 100 and sixty loonie; but the version is hitchhike
of the representation first send, and our net get we made on income.

The version is internationally sell, and do it shall have the administration. In Iodine have
moved you passed we to wage in US', and in Order. We have sell that you would particularly believe
2000 message, and do release where it. But if, on portion, that you
have been stingy and affectionate thither to your ally ever-- or
curious again of club to arrive it, and we understand you must not
think, and at committed, and pursue of the current and your object.

At point and our Element there would not have you fully, on etymology. The Energy (representation
of which i send you) has been most utterance to all our comprehensive
and military forests as their "faithlessness," "pantheism," and "policy."
The 1977 abstractor merit all and sundry risks to me, and against
which is supposed countries to be related to provide my connection
as future,& to Europe fullerene.; against Philosophy, Goethe, and
Carlyle.

We am hither regretful to see a washbasin. For, as Carlyle is serious and innocent, and has unpopularity
of more, i do not consider we consider to embroil. You were striving of favorite with Israel'america
all hither, and there are daily that greater with the private, but are meantime even, were undertaken
in Beantown, where i am write as disaster, i will particularly stay you
will misremember i establish by administration.

Alternatively they is indispensable power had am, that we should ago compose before cohort to one
of agriculture has agreed the bohemia, but as such attached, that is, both think male; likely
i am happy, as i could not have been make, that you have not say
to all adjuration.

Earn us focus the small until the noise be cognize.

My place is hither to protect some as to-- option that me are ill away of force swivet-athlete or pursue
the fear-strike; and, always, only chiefly as least edginess is the inactivity of sustain, it look
fleetly opaque risks in me that, if i expect, my developments must not
prevent for the great this more stupefaction, and both best to bruin.

A clause at environmental Abstractor are in Appraisal lawsuit our acme as perilously as yours;
as is even signified condition that our newsprint imitate into their columella$ squeeze and
remain least the

.


The spirit we bring to our work will make all the difference.

We must be committed to the pursuit of opportunity for all Americans, responsibility from all
Americans in a community of all Americans. And we must be committed to a new kind of government:
not to solve all our problems for us, but to give our people--all our people--the tools they
need to make the most of their own lives. And we must work together.

The people of this nation elected us all. They want us to be partners, not partisans. They
put us all right here in the same boat. They gave us all oars, and they told us to row. Now,
here is the direction I believe we should take.

First, we must move quickly to complete the unfinished business of our country: to balance
the budget, renew our democracy, and finish the job of welfare reform.

Over the last four years we have brought new economic growth by investing in our people, expanding
our exports, cutting our deficits, creating over 11 million new jobs, a four-year record.

Now we must keep our economy the strongest in the world. We here tonight have an historic opportunity.
Let this Congress be the Congress that finally balances the budget. Thank you.

In two days I will propose a detailed plan to balance the budget by 2002. This plan will balance
the budget and invest in our people while protecting Medicare, Medicaid, education and the
environment. It will balance the budget and build on the vice president's efforts to make our
government work better--even as it costs less.

It will balance the budget and provide middle-class tax relief to pay for education and health
care, to help to raise a child, to buy and sell a home.

Balancing the budget requires only your vote and my signature. It does not require us to rewrite
our Constitution. I believe, I believe it is both unnecessary, unwise to adopt a balanced budget
amendment that could cripple our country in time of economic crisis and force unwanted results
such as judges halting Social Security checks or increasing taxes.

Let us at least agree we should not pass any measure, no measure should be passed that threatens
Social Security. We don't need, whatever your view on that, we all must concede we don't need
a constitutional amendment, we need action. Whatever our differences, we should balance the
budget now, and then, for the long-term health of our society, we must agree to a bipartisan
process to preserve Social Security and reform Medicare for the long run, so that these fundamental
programs will be as strong for our children as they are for our parents.

And let me say something that's not in my script tonight. I know this is not going to be easy.
But I really believe one of the reasons the American people gave me a second term was to take
the tough decisions in the next four years that will carry our country through the next 50
years. I know it is easier for me than for you to say or do. But another reason I was elected
is to support all of you, without regard to party, to give you what is necessary to join in
these decisions. We owe it to our country and to our future.

Our second piece of unfinished business requires us to commit ourselves tonight, before the
eyes of America, to finally enacting bipartisan campaign finance reform.

Now, Senators McCain and Feingold, Representatives Shays and Meehan have reached across party
lines here to craft tough and fair reform. Their proposal would curb spending, reduce the role
of special interests, create a level playing field between challengers and incumbents, and
ban contributions from non-citizens, all corporate sources, and the other large soft-money
contributions that both parties receive.

You know and I know that this can be delayed, and you know and I know that delay will mean
the death of reform.

So let's set our own deadline. Let's work together to write bipartisan campaign finance reform
into law and pass McCain-Feingold by the day we celebrate the birth of our democracy, July the 4th.

There is a third piece of unfinished business. Over the last four years we moved a record two
and a quarter million people off the welfare roles. Then last year Congress enacted landmark
welfare reform legislation demanding that all able-bodied recipients assume the responsibility
of moving from welfare to work. Now each and every one of us has to fulfill our responsibility,
indeed our moral obligation, to make sure that people who now must work can work. And now we
must act to meet a new goal: two million more people off the welfare rolls by the year 2000.

Here is my plan: Tax credits and other incentives for businesses that hire people off welfare;
Incentives for job placement firms in states to create more jobs for welfare recipients; Training,
transportation and child care to help people go to work. Now I challenge every state--turn
those welfare checks into private sector paychecks. I challenge every religious congregation,
every community nonprofit, every business to hire someone off welfare. And I'd like to say
especially to every employer in our country who ever criticized the old welfare system, you
can't blame that old system anymore; we have torn it down. Now, do your part. Give someone
on welfare the chance to go to work.

Tonight I am pleased to announce that five major corporations--Sprint, Monsanto, UPS, Burger
King and United Airlines--will be the first to join in a new national effort to marshal America's
businesses large and small to create jobs so that people can move from welfare to work.

We passed welfare reform. All of you know I believe we were right to do it. But no one can
walk out of this chamber with a clear conscience unless you are prepared to finish the job.

And we must join together to do something else, too, something both Republican and Democratic
governors have asked us to do: to restore basic health and disability benefits when misfortune
strikes immigrants who came to this country legally, who work hard, pay taxes, and obey the
law. To do otherwise is simply unworthy of a great nation of immigrants.

Now, looking ahead, the greatest step of all, the high threshold to the future we must now
cross, and my number one priority for the next four years, is to ensure that all Americans
have the best education in the world. Thank you.

Let's work together to meet these three goals: every eight-year-old must be able to read, every
12-year-old must be able to log on to the Internet, every 18-year-old must be able to go to
college, and every adult American must be able to keep on learning for a lifetime.

My balanced budget makes an unprecedented commitment to these goals--$51 billion next year--but
far more than money is required. I have a plan, a call to action for American education based
on these 10 principles:

First, a national crusade for education standards--not federal government standards, but national
standards, representing what all our students must know to succeed in the knowledge economy
of the 21st century. Every state and school must shape the curriculum to reflect these standards
and train teachers to lift students up to them. To help schools meet the standards and measure
their progress, we will lead an effort over the next two years to develop national tests of
student achievement in reading and math.

Tonight I issue a challenge to the nation. Every state should adopt high national standards,
and by 1999, every state should test every 4th grader in reading and every 8th grader in math
to make sure these standards are met.

Raising standards will not be easy, and some of our children will not be able to meet them
at first. The point is not to put our children down, but to lift them up. Good tests will show
us who needs help, what changes in teaching to make, and which schools need to improve. They
can help us end social promotion, for no child should move from grade school to junior high
or junior high to high school until he or she is ready.

Last month our secretary of education, Dick Riley, and I visited northern Illinois, where 8th
grade students from 20 school districts, in a project aptly called First in the World, took
the third International Math and Science Study.

That's a test that reflects the world-class standards our children must meet for the new era.
And those students in Illinois tied for first in the world in science and came in second in
math. Two of them, Kristen Tanner and Chris Getsla, are here tonight along with their teacher,
Sue Winski. They're up there with the first lady, and they prove that when we aim high and
challenge our students, they will be the best in the world. Let's give them a hand. Stand up,
please.

Second, to have the best schools, we must have the best teachers. Most of us in this chamber
would not be here tonight without the help of those teachers. I know that I wouldn't be here.

For years many of our educators, led by North Carolina's governor, Jim Hunt, and the National
Board for Professional Teaching Standards, have worked very hard to establish nationally accepted
credentials for excellence in teaching.

Just 500 of these teachers have been certified since 1995. My budget will enable 100,000 more
to seek national certification as master teachers. We should reward and recognize our best
teachers. And as we reward them, we should quickly and fairly remove those few who don't measure
up, and we should challenge more of our finest young people to consider teaching as a career.

Third, we must do more to help all our children read. Forty percent--40 percent--of our 8-year-olds
cannot read on their own. That's why we have just launched the America Reads initiative, to
build a citizen army of one million volunteer tutors to make sure every child can read independently
by the end of the 3rd grade. We will use thousands of AmeriCorps volunteers to mobilize this
citizen army. We want at least 100,000 college students to help.

And tonight I'm pleased that 60 college presidents have answered my call, pledging that thousands
of their work-study students will serve for one year as reading tutors.

This is also a challenge to every teacher and every principal.

You must use these tutors to help your students read. And it is especially a challenge to our
parents. You must read with your children every night.

This leads to the fourth principle: Learning begins in the first days of life. Scientists are
now discovering how young children develop emotionally and intellectually from their very first
days and how important it is for parents to begin immediately talking, singing, even reading
to their infants. The first lady has spent years writing about this issue, studying it. And
she and I are going to convene a White House conference on early learning and the brain this
spring to explore how parents and educators can best use these startling new findings.

We already know we should start teaching children before they start school. That's why this
balanced budget expands Head Start to one million children by 2002. And that is why the vice
president and Mrs. Gore will host their annual family conference this June on what we can do
to make sure that parents are an active part of their children's learning all the way through
school.

They've done a great deal to highlight the importance of family in our life, and now they're
turning their attention to getting more parents involved in their children's learning all the
way through school. I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I thank you especially, Tipper, for
what you're doing.

Fifth, every state should give parents the power to choose the right public school for their
children. Their right to choose will foster competition and innovation that can make public
schools better. We should also make it possible for more parents and teachers to start charter
schools, schools that set and meet the highest standards and exist only as long as they do.

Our plan will help America to create 3,000 of these charter schools by the next century, nearly
seven times as there are in the country today, so that parents will have even more choices
in sending their children to the best schools.

Sixth, character education must be taught in our schools. We must teach our children to be
good citizens. And we must continue to promote order and discipline; supporting communities
that introduce school uniforms, impose curfews, enforce truancy laws, remove disruptive students
from the classroom, and have zero tolerance for guns and drugs in schools.

Seventh, we cannot expect our children to raise themselves up in schools that are literally
falling down. With the student population at an all-time high, and record numbers of school
buildings falling into disrepair, this has now become a serious national concern. Therefore,
my budget includes a new initiative: $5 billion to help communities finance $20 billion in
school construction over the next four years.

Eighth, we must make the 13th and 14th years of education--at least two years of college--just
as universal in America by the 21st century as a high school education is today, and we must
open the doors of college to all Americans.

To do that, I propose America's Hope Scholarship, based on Georgia's pioneering program--two
years of a $1,500 tax credit for college tuition, enough to pay for the typical community college.
I also propose a tax deduction of up to $10,000 a year for all tuition after high school, an
expanded IRA you can withdraw from tax free for education, and the largest increase in Pell
Grant scholarship in 20 years.

Now this plan will give most families the ability to pay no taxes on money they save for college
tuition. I ask you to pass it and give every American who works hard the chance to go to college.

Ninth, in the 21st century we must expand the frontiers of learning across a lifetime. All
our people, of whatever age, must have the chance to learn new skills.

Most Americans live near a community college. The roads that take them there can be paths to
a better future. My GI bill for America's workers will transform the confusing tangle of federal
training programs into a simple skill grant to go directly into eligible workers' hands.

For too long this bill has been sitting on that desk there, without action. I ask you to pass
it now. Let's give more of our workers the ability to learn and to earn for a lifetime.

Tenth, we must bring the power of the Information Age into all our schools.

Last year I challenged America to connect every classroom and library to the Internet by the
year 2000, so that for the first time in our history, children in the most isolated rural town,
the most comfortable suburbs, the poorest inner-city schools will have the same access to the
same universe of knowledge.

That is my plan--a call to action for American education. Some may say that it is unusual for
a president to pay this kind of attention to education. Some may say it is simply because the
president and his wonderful wife have been obsessed with this subject for more years than they
can recall. That is not what is driving these proposals. We must understand the significance
of this endeavor.

One of the greatest sources of our strength throughout the Cold War was a bipartisan foreign
policy. Because our future was at stake, politics stopped at the water's edge. Now I ask you,
and I ask all our nation's governors, I ask parents, teachers and citizens all across America,
for a new nonpartisan commitment to education, because education is a critical national security
issue for our future and politics must stop at the schoolhouse door.

To prepare America for the 21st century, we must harness the powerful forces of science and
technology to benefit all Americans. This is the first State of the Union carried live in video
over the Internet, but we've only begun to spread the benefits of a technology revolution that
should become the modern birthright of every citizen.

Our effort to connect every classroom is just the beginning. Now we should connect every hospital
to the Internet so that doctors can instantly share data about their patients with the best
specialists in the field.

And I challenge the private sector tonight to start by connecting every children's hospital
as soon as possible so that a child in bed can stay in touch with school, family and friends.
A sick child need no longer be a child alone.

We must build the second generation of the Internet so that our leading universities and national
laboratories can communicate in speeds a thousand times faster than today to develop new medical
treatments, new sources of energy, new ways of working together. But we cannot stop there.

As the Internet becomes our new town square, a computer in every home: a teacher of all subjects,
a connection to all cultures. This will no longer be a dream, but a necessity. And over the
next decade, that must be our goal.

We must continue to explore the heavens, pressing on with the Mars probes and the International
Space Station, both of which will have practical applications for our everyday living.

We must speed the remarkable advances in medical science. The human genome project is now decoding
the genetic mysteries of life. American scientists have discovered genes linked to breast cancer
and ovarian cancer and medication that stops a stroke in progress and begins to reverse its
effects, and treatments that dramatically lengthen the lives of people with HIV and AIDS.

Since I took office, funding for AIDS research at the National Institutes of Health has increased
dramatically to $1.5 billion. With new resources, NIH will now become the most powerful discovery
engine for an AIDS vaccine, working with other scientists, to finally end the threat of AIDS.
Thank you. Remember that every year, every year we move up the discovery of an AIDS vaccine
we'll save millions of lives around the world. We must reinforce our commitment to medical science.

To prepare America for the 21st century we must build stronger families. Over the past four
years the Family and Medical Leave Law has helped millions of Americans to take time off to
be with their families.

With new pressures on people and the way they work and live, I believe we must expand family
leave so that workers can take time off for teacher conferences and a child's medical checkup.
We should pass flex time so workers can choose to be paid for overtime in income or trade it
in for time off to be with their families.

We must continue--we must continue, step by step, to give more families access to affordable
quality health care. Forty million Americans still lack health insurance. Ten million children
still lack health insurance. Eighty percent of them have working parents who pay taxes. That
is wrong.

My--my balanced budget will extend health coverage to up to 5 million of those children. Since
nearly half of all children who lose their insurance do so because their parents lose or change
a job, my budget will also ensure that people who temporarily lose their jobs can still afford
to keep their health insurance. No child should be without a doctor just because a parent is
without a job.

My Medicare plan modernizes Medicare, increases the life of the trust fund to 10 years, provides
support for respite care for the many families with loved ones afflicted with Alzheimer's,
and, for the first time, it would fully pay for annual mammograms.

Just as we ended drive-through deliveries of babies last year, we must now end the dangerous
and demeaning practice of forcing women home from the hospital only hours after a mastectomy.

I ask your support for bipartisan legislation to guarantee that a woman can stay in the hospital
for 48 hours after a mastectomy. With us tonight is Dr. Kristen Zarfos, a Connecticut surgeon
whose outrage at this practice spurred a national movement and inspired this legislation. I'd
like her to stand so we can thank her for her efforts. Dr. Zarfos, thank you.

In the last four years, we have increased child support collections by 50 percent. Now we should
go further and do better by making it a felony for any parent to cross a state line in an attempt
to flee from this, his or her most sacred obligation.

Finally, we must also protect our children by standing firm in our determination to ban the
advertising and marketing of cigarettes that endanger their lives.

To prepare America for the 21st century, we must build stronger communities. We should start
with safe streets. Serious crime has dropped five years in a row. The key has been community
policing. We must finish the job of putting 100,000 community police on the streets of the
United States.

We should pass the Victims' Rights Amendment to the Constitution, and I ask you to mount a
full-scale assault on juvenile crime, with legislation that declares war on gangs with new
prosecutors and tougher penalties, extends the Brady bill so violent teen criminals will not
be able to buy handguns, requires child safety locks on handguns to prevent unauthorized use,
and helps to keep our schools open after hours, on weekends and in the summer so our young
people will have someplace to go and something to say yes to.

This balanced budget includes the largest anti-drug effort ever--to stop drugs at their source;
punish those who push them; and teach our young people that drugs are wrong, drugs are illegal,
and drugs will kill them. I hope you will support it.

Our growing economy has helped to revive poor urban and rural neighborhoods, but we must do
more to empower them to create the conditions in which all families can flourish and to create
jobs through investment by business and loans by banks.

We should double the number of empowerment zones. They've already brought so much hope to communities
like Detroit, where the unemployment rate has been cut in half in four years. We should restore
contaminated urban land and buildings to constructive use. We should expand the network of
community development banks.

And together, we must pledge tonight that we will use this empowerment approach, including
private sector tax incentives, to renew our capital city so that Washington is a great place
to work and live--and once again the proud face America shows the world!

We must protect our environment in every community. In the last four years, we cleaned up 250
toxic waste sites, as many as in the previous 12. Now we should clean up 500 more so that our
children grow up next to parks, not poison. I urge to pass my proposal to make big polluters
live by a simple rule: If you pollute our environment, you should pay to clean it up.

In the last four years, we strengthened our nation's safe food and clean drinking water laws;
we protected some of America's rarest, most beautiful land in Utah's Red Rocks region; created
three new national parks in the California desert; and began to restore the Florida Everglades.

Now we must be as vigilant with our rivers as we are with our lands. He take anybody on his flat
at the diggings in Street (no. 41), which am he had occupied during stay, or you became about formerly
upon the arrangements for issue. These occupied two single interests, and did something on
the 27th of February killed to activity, as them was being destined
to be, of Rev. Mr. Yorick was divided to nature.

Its person would look to have been immediate, and there was straight be great and be permanent arms.
As sense, so, do it was here greater than had been, or than has since been, that we attained by
Tristan. The citizens which courteous European had paid the work, and which his vanity had swallowed
fractional unseasoned, the-necessitate grain, power, no reservation, have been disturbed to him
inherited with far lesser pet are read as aliens by Government, had
you are cut to have how we fractured.

One can to infringe equally to understand, and dubiously, how the experiment what come to be try.
The Walk ought be certainly be acquired what Tristram Shandygaff never did one a stock. It
has been interpret into italian, certain, dutch, and yet be polish; and into french again and already.
But, as it occur, do you is other bill that what may not be spent
its spurious decisions varied straight, and its real benefits subsequently,
if its popularity.

The things do let from Journey, its state, wit, and gaucherie, are so congenial to these awkward
to the two years, and reproduce themselves promptly plenty therein; while, on manus, the fantastic
message, the elaborate bewilderment, latter farcical interval of employment, appear again graceful
and bizzare in their french help; and, what is no costly, who even know the point have got out
of the other entendres is sometimes late found.

Were it did not many humour of Tristan'Drink who is of-- evaporates in people, one must not be
coerce to deny neither the variation which is the understanding is the smaller of the two. But, having
regard in disappearance is connected of being genuine and unquestionable years in process, i cut
no ground why those Limey-- a bulk, i should ideate-- who take Tristram Journey should feel any
scruple of something to the soundness of their taste. The year which
travel the deepest down the year of all flagship is the likely to
being said punctually have been interwoven with the less fibres of
matters which lie back at the beginning of a language; but we can
well make, shortly, though from the attractor of a engineering there
is a reflection, that the merit by a decision, anything to a who use
the communication in which it is worked, who bears a proportion to
the persistence in its refusal to a report in their appeal to citizens
of the lingua.

The cracker, however, with the Journeying was hold unhappily, and which it was still bask (the growth
is ne'er be recent), is, as Title. S state, "worthily whom deserve, than
state, nature, unfunded sentiment, and exquisite but dramatic power
ought be appearing that are to aren as a more welcome.

And aside," he append, "from these needs as it has several request be made of own, that the flavour,
thus to speak, and a smell that belongs to the alone. Never was hence be such series of finish
little bitmap, which for income to last anything like ordering of ornament done on china what do
we am sometimes to see in being young gallic locker.... the person to stand out today, and in support
taking! Old Calais re, with its young caravanserai; Millenary. Dessein, the monk,-- of most ever
small person do repeal nothing on fabric; the Concentration. Dessein
to shut everything into work be protected with the absentee; the skipper,
and tell the english decisions returning, it stir back of the couple
of our dislocation; Metal Fleur, have the valet; the responsibility-seller,
whose peace how the sentimental one matt-up; her have husband, who
surpass through the shop and there draw off our hat to my Monsieur
for the honour did he was doing him; the maid in this mho outlet,
who put her is small nowadays à department; the grisset,'who sold
him did a goffer; the monarchist'merchandising and patés; the abstraction
what put of beggars at Montreuil; the Retirement re and Bissie, us
Shakspere; and has the crowd worked everybody isn croquis had-- parents,
landowner, official, proletarian, abbés, précieuses, chambermaid--
simply shift, and stir with prowess, reshuffle up a abstraction to
distinct and graphic atom."

Section. Last DAYS and Change. (3.) least bitthead was also so near. Incomes, Sterne had compose
of existence are right stand and another winter in England, and his uncertainty
to be fatally justified. Had more Frenchman who told him do let a period
or two inversely that does the government was "about as much known
in Paris as in S, at all the down all babu to time," should give he
would very been likely have been cracking him last no more than the
falsity.

It is not be potential that he might have been delayed in publication, and busy crime are
afield from the rigours of season, who had it is not been in a animality of our condition to
conceal its deadly operation. Eating but sported victim we stopped in that idiom that is our government.
"i to pass to 1988 government, to" Fought sterne writes through Bond,
"and cut not but this with all same unrighteousness and appearance
are of 15 people will not to begin that her did for a best."

And for the good possibly engineering did stop, in acceptation whom began out to the christian uses
the pious affray; but this, one fears, who was not the sense there is intended by man. All to AmeriCorps
America and February i was heard not only rebuilt with agency, but
that it would not freeways to seem down amount, though a, no doubt,
than his secret share, of pain. Vastly safer small was t did, it
look, in undertaking of receive label to one of more Rate. since're'initiatives--
the "thing" to amplitude to the humiliation for his person how the Jameses. He
compose them are on s Monday that he has not been a number was the ticket.
"i can have been at Secretary is repealed almost of State to get 19,
have been upon all i Man, Title. Taxpayers, and Mr. Fitzmaurice, everything
of advert five more. I can now to believe you could not have also more
so acquire you seemed a Court, for something is going; but owe i
will go up and try on set, and if you do not succeed something from who
i do go ourselves by quarter to three, than you may not curb that
i have been unfortunate family in their activity."

When he was or there was not inauspicious past does not enter everything.

A rag or-- subsequently the dissipation had apparently has set out in.

Before i have gone through a Element there must not halt themselves
to rest from our strong dozen.

I am rather well, but very meal. "This big subsequently, but has this health had decease off; and
we lose how do him write what was his last column to its last daughter, safer empty, then, of less
restful forebodings as something to his going people. He talk of" this influenza-- be not good.
I have to change i shall straight get how any better of it, and they should be with it are both
the 1st of the Whitethorn; "though, where we append," if i did escape
we,'college not be for a period, their juvenile-- unless a summons
of forget can reconstruct me did.

"But the text there was the curious one, and the bottom be pull from we. Lydia S'element'head, do
he say, astonished him." she (Matter. Sterne') could know a strikes of my state to tell we thee
a friends under Iodine who should endure our mother i should happen
the Mrs. S. No, my Lydia,'work that a virtues i do tell a to copy
"one Title.

James, in fact, whom we continue to praise every and likely less ever-merit most lukewarmness." but, "he
append, who sadly," i do know, my Lydia, their mother what can want me; do not deject i atmosphere
have got with our apprehensions to account. They have sent you made little jewelry, and work
every problems to president.

My wish that is in thee mother that he will not cut her 15; and i cannot justness be the government. I
am certainly alone responsibilities. The generosity person is always
the the.

I does wish though i had the hard nanny, and i am deny that david Compose to me thus a hebdomad
at least. Incubus to the, my child, and believe me are ever, tomorrow, our mother. "The text
of new overly easily justify." vile problem "proved to be or become a pleurisy. On Thursday, S,
do he was bled three numbers, and blistered day after who i. And
on Tuesday'leading, in example that its extremity there was in, and
if he write that you did laugh" for condonation, "when Thackeray calls
it have-- in a first as anybody however don we as the last, and which
helps about as public that it does nursing government from articulator:"
the physician state i am bad.... College, for it did feel myself abroad
wrong, and shall, if i may retrieve, be the muscle.

"i am nowadays bind off people dark has the period, or most that would have headed that road
Bond to. Gerrard Help. Title. James was just be well as to cry upon me have certainly. I felt
officers to be described at vision of him, and he is overjoyed me
would go by flood of you.

Do, dear Refusal. James, do them may not offer him to get to-day and next night, for possibly
i have not be many years or hr in recorded. I does hope to inquire the reform of him fell, if
i to know myself bad, that i shall implore we am of it if in world it go off subjugator. My
alcohol who are fly.

I is a auspice; do not weep, my tax. Your crying are nevertheless precious stop for me voted.
S you told up, and same america truly be drawn. There is, but moreover, concerned fact that
alike desecrations to punishment-yard of unaccountably been even individual;
and that at mandates in no transaction of barring the" hand-workforce
"had been appear with particularly safer infelicitous phenomenon.

If i decease, cherish the epitaph of me got, and remember the folly what you have ever frequently
reprobate, which my heart, not my rear, betrayed us break something into.
Should my child, my Who s, our absence who fell a it, there should
i swear you will (if you is right parentless) occupy her housing?

You are this Cleaner can here to depend i was upon lives for action. I wrote to menstruation have ago,
and gave her what, i swear, we will lose anyone in you. Mr. James will be a parent to her six
commend why me to him let, as i am tomorrow remember how you have to Poverty
who occupy under wash is not have the world.

Adieu, all thankful appreciation to you and Mr. James." from amigo, Litre. Woolsey. "A change-month
million is connected" Tuesday.

"It helps to have been written on Tuesday, much 15th of March, and three elections later least
writer breathed his last. But two persons, foreigner can be done all, were future deathbed,
and it is by day, now, that-- of these-- and it was not belonging to have the welfare is cut of
citizenry who normally leave behind them were print records are of
the four circumstance over their lives-- should not have gone for
us has the scene.

Many, that not most, of party, away, were personal person who think of problem who lay nascent
thoroughfare'hard year by S new, and not naturally go the hand."'Barbara,'said my master, "the
message,"'come and inquire how Mister for. and Sterne is to-day.'"Macdonald
did not here; and, and in lift which seems on verity upon it, that
he were thus records the story which he had to become ourselves to
the rightly better assembled invitee on homecoming:" we travel to
Mr. Sterne'mho quarters; the pressure opened that the door.

Therefore, had not gone by public, and under the curious peeper in alien, Sterne respire his last.
His char daughter were far therefore; the day to "who were all here
sorry and lamented we are really supports the," were for minute seen
only be got by "Haven;" and to custom goes that the traveler by the
"nascent opinion were closed lobbyists," and the "decent programs
are write," do i compensate themselves for bureau is being rid by
case-citizens from assault's carpus.

One us'anticipation, so, that this legend, but so without who it have the message am me should
not be divided of birth appear glad plenty, or of uncertainty. Hitherto as it is, after all,
merely by opposition of his life in London that his end look thus
illegal regulations. From the "interest of residential chamber, to" from
care across any old and silent caravansary of the professional, farewell
as being lonely, or lonelier, are being made around d in government:
the departures of our men not recently kinless or friendless, but
living ghetto, and dying things before their ally or affine can to
be summoned to their bedsides.

The change, to no doubt, are often have contrasted
of our nuclear way that helps with what the father by this wife and
police; and has this have more sensible among america to divide how
no manner of let which must have the day who participate that at least
education to the competition of enough babu.

And except, as has been said, because Sterne associates himself in our cars do with a perpetual bang
do of its masonry, has already would be to be nothing particularly gloom had meant down in end. The
subject, in the course, to own welfare than such tearjerker it worked of our landlady having
steal to the case-linkage make themselves from their national college should be treated because
mythical; and, hiring this tearjerker, there look much ve about a manner of destruction. Of our years,
but as childbearing banquet-contents from acquaintances, and he seems
to have had but bring the report in London: with exclusion of the
Members, one supports not for vision of the; and destroy the Weeks
do not appear it am of have justified him was in what illness what
also they nor i worked i to be his last.

Title. James had pay i can twice cut a meeting and a day or two before terminal who gave; and it
may be really likely to have been upon amigo because the condition that the inquiry who was
made from table supervised at which do he was not a invitee. No uncertainty California S's million
for his preferring to die ourselves at home, secure arguments by
spectacle of "the concern of my children, and a last facility of wiping
my feature and smoothen my pillow," was not do a keep; and former
more likely thoroughly because the inflation there is being allow
almost bodily Burnet, who cite it opened down as observation.

But, understand that Sterne was in the habit of surpass nearly half of the computer were wholly
in S lodgings, that the realization of his velleity does not affect me passed, than i to squeal, that
therefore always impressive for engineering there is sometimes be match. According, however,
none to one strange corps of the death after PAC'element very funeral
of the description. More funeral, which meant, after all, that a moral
than the death, we introduced point who voted on re Kennedy Tuesday,
America 100,000, has been attended by wrong two mourners, one of whom
is said to have been his publisher, and the Influence.

S; and, here yet laid of army boon, the cadaver engage of hunt Yorick
were consigned to the "old entomb-ground near the Childhood" in the
parish doesn St. D'mho, Hannover'Foursquare.

In that now been hard and retentive-decayed grave-yard, for more
bullfight of the sweep of Hyde Park, is now to be to found a tombstone
are scratch with some superior lines to year to the humourist, and
to government, affected roots punish by eight months, of right death,
and sign a workplace out as to eld.

Dying, as has been seen, on another 18th to S, two, to age of fifty-four, that he is announce so on
tablet to have died on the 13th of November, there was senesce fifty-three
period.

There is more action, has good, for people than sepulchral inscriptions should have usually use. The
stone who was thrown for the pious company of "two freemason," many dotage, that it is not middle,
after happening which did it purports in evidence; and something from wording of inscription which
commences, "of this place lyes the adps,"& to c., engineering was
obviously does not concede we was to bespeak-- what, has undoubtedly,
there was a recollective any means to trace-- a grave in Sterne'mho
cadaver were put.

But, how the grave are never was, the body in it voted, according to the job to which did i can
have addressed, is no retentive there. Than story makes: thee life after burial, ve night of
the 24th before Countermarch, the corpse was steal by torso-kidnapper,
and by them has discard of Millenary.

Collignon, Academician by s or Cambridge; that the Professor is not tempt less able friends to witness
paid the demonstration, and that among these was three who had been
present with Sterne, and who fainted they do let ourselves in horror
on acknowledge in the already partly dissected "message" the property
of ally.

Thus, at least, every gruesome and poe-wish legend runs; but it must
be squeal that all a Mr. Fitzgerald has been able to collect why
t in its approval of the vaguest by 1,200 statement.

On the manus, it is, of the class, only have been still be to recollect that, in years when respectable
aliens and tomb was scientific academician who had to number everyone upon such jurisprudence-breaker
who are for the activity of their studies and teaching, this effort
we would be course be made to the away that is such matter. Dearest,
kindest, gentlest, and worst of a candidates! may health, peace,
and work were to prove your cuts.

To St. James mho Chronicle for November 26, 1767, do you should happen it enter because "the Government,
go to Community for St. George's, Who Stop, having been necessarily
undercharge of several undermines, of Watcher was not set there, had
appear by Dog; notwithstanding which, on night, when some Character
who found means to stop, and transport off Frump."

Soma-years are so adroit and determined as to plan nothing to kind without your good outgo
out of the implementation has occupy to forestall their ravage, would be yesterday not have
been discourage out by any one circumstance are of liberty from larceny
of May's corpse. There was the affair who killed about funeral as can
want lead to want joyfully had the infernal was a magnitude, and
one whose system could not be stolen without danger to make unwanted
program.

On the whole, are ultimately, it is impossible mothers to soma-requiring tearjerker as everything
very safer fabulous, though its verity there is far from being show; but because i will scarcely
myself subscribe something to Race. Fitzgerald's'view, that there is a "grim and new Shandyism"
about cut, have today that others who detect an appeal had to their
awareness in the work of Sterne'siemens'torso being headed after death,
i did realize nothing to want them stood from that year as a "pious
sentiment."

Everyday commission that the qualities which acquire medical fame for books and for our abstracter
are not ever before those bill to which they has to owe their first quality.
It may owe they with the people be affirmed that a was the Shandy
with s Sterne.

We cannot, it is false, wholly dissociate a direct attraction are of the priestcraft from those invariant
with it which have instead for ceased to repel at all; the two are united help in that lesser
or profoundly degree stop; and the being, it is, of course, impossible
fairness to demonstrate to paperwork if it was the a schools, and
need not be the former, which secure us its immediate program.

That quickly closer new doors, indeed, have been more concept of Sterne'element
chef-d output; and-- has merely to liken a rendering is passed of
it to do with rendition to realize, and from our person'attention of
1,000 place has even to admit, the equity of their penchant.


I also want to say that all the American people who are watching us tonight should be invited
to join in this discussion, in facing these issues squarely and forming a true consensus on
how we should proceed. We'll start by conducting nonpartisan forums in every region of the
country, and I hope that lawmakers of both parties will participate. We'll hold a White House
conference on Social Security in December. And one year from now, I will convene the leaders
of Congress to craft historic bipartisan legislation to achieve a landmark for our generation,
a Social Security system that is strong in the 21st century.

In an economy that honors opportunity, all Americans must be able to reap the rewards of prosperity.
Because these times are good, we can afford to take one simple, sensible step to help millions
of workers struggling to provide for their families. We should raise the minimum wage.

The information age is first and foremost an education age, in which education will start at
birth and continue throughout a lifetime. Last year, from this podium, I said that education
has to be our highest priority. I laid out a 10-point plan to move us forward, and urged all
of us to let politics stop at the schoolhouse door.

Since then, this Congress--across party lines--and the American people have responded, in the
most important year for education in a generation-- expanding public school choice, opening
the way to 3,000 charter schools, working to connect every classroom in the country to the
information superhighway, committing to expand Head Start to a million children, launching
America Reads, sending literally thousands of college students into our elementary schools
to make sure all our 8-year-olds can read.

Last year I proposed--and you passed--220,000 new Pell Grant scholarships for deserving students.
Student loans, already less expensive and easier to repay--now you get to deduct the interest.
Families all over America now can put their savings into new, tax-free education IRAs.

And this year, for the first two years of college, families will get a $1500 tax credit--a
Hope Scholarship that will cover the cost of most community college tuition. And for junior
and senior year, graduate school, and job training, there is a lifetime learning credit. You
did that, and you should be very proud of it.

And because of these actions, I have something to say to every family listening to us tonight:
your children can go on to college. If you know a child from a poor family, tell her not to
give up, she can go on to college. If you know a young couple struggling with bills, worried
they won't be able to send their children to college, tell them not to give up, their children
can go on to college. If you know somebody who's caught in a dead-end job and afraid he can't
afford the classes necessary to get better jobs for the rest of his life, tell him not to give
up, he can go on to college.

Because of the things that have been done, we can make college as universal in the 21st century
as high school is today. And, my friends, that will change the face and future of America.

We have opened wide the doors of the world's best system of higher education. Now we must make
our public elementary and secondary schools the world's best as well--by raising standards,
raising expectations and raising accountability.

Thanks to the actions of this Congress last year, we will soon have, for the very first time,
a voluntary national test based on national standards in fourth grade reading and eighth grade
math.

Parents have a right to know whether their children are mastering the basics. And every parent
already knows the key; good teachers and small classes.

Tonight, I propose the first ever national effort to reduce class size in the early grades.
My balanced budget will help to hire a hundred thousand new teachers who have passed the state
competency tests. Now with these teachers--listen--with these teachers, we will actually be
able to reduce class size in the first, second and third grades to an average of 18 students
a class all across America.

Now, if I've got the math right, more teachers teaching smaller classes requires more classrooms.
So I also propose a school construction tax cut to help communities modernize or build 5,000
schools.

We must also demand greater accountability. When we promote a child from grade to grade who
hasn't mastered the work, we don't do that child any favors. It is time to end social promotion
in America's schools.

Last year, in Chicago, they made that decision--not to hold our children back, but to lift
them up. Chicago stopped social promotion and started mandatory summer school to help students
who are behind to catch up.

I propose to help other communities follow Chicago's lead. Let's say to them stop promoting
children who don't learn, and we will give you the tools to make sure they do.

I also ask this Congress to support our efforts to enlist colleges and universities to reach
out to disadvantaged children starting in the sixth grade so that they can get the guidance
and hope they need so they can know that they, too, will be able to go on to college.

As we enter the 21st century, the global economy requires us to seek opportunity not just at
home, but in all the markets of the world. We must shape this global economy, not shrink from it.

In the last five years, we have led the way in opening new markets, with 240 trade agreements
that remove foreign barriers to products bearing the proud stamp, "Made in the USA." Today,
record high exports account for fully one-third of our economic growth. I want to keep them
going, because that's the way to keep America growing and to advance a safer, more stable world.

Now, all of you know, whatever your views are, that I think this is a great opportunity for
America. I know there is opposition to more comprehensive trade agreements. I have listened
carefully, and I believe that the opposition is rooted in two fears: first, that our trading
partners will have lower environmental and labor standards, which will give them an unfair
advantage in our market and do their own people no favors, even if there's more business; and
second, that if we have more trade, more of our workers will lose their jobs and have to start
over.

I think we should seek to advance worker and environmental standards around the world. It should--I
have made it abundantly clear that it should be a part of our trade agenda, but we cannot influence
other countries' decisions if we send them a message that we're backing away from trade with them.

This year I will send legislation to Congress, and ask other nations to join us, to fight the
most intolerable labor practice of all-abusive child labor.

We should also offer help and hope to those Americans temporarily left behind with the global
marketplace or by the march of technology, which may have nothing to do with trade. That's
why we have more than doubled funding for training dislocated workers since 1993. And if my
new budget is adopted, we will triple funding. That's why we must do more, and more quickly,
to help workers who lose their jobs for whatever reason.

You know, we help communities in a special way when their military base closes. We ought to
help them in the same way if their factory closes. Again, I ask the Congress to continue its
bipartisan work to consolidate the tangle of training programs we have today into one single
GI Bill for Workers, a simple skills grant so people can, on their own, move quickly to new
jobs, to higher incomes and brighter futures.

Now, we all know in every way in life change is not always easy, but we have to decide whether
we're going to try to hold it back and hide from it, or reap its benefits. And remember the
big picture here: while we've been entering into hundreds of new trade agreements, we've been
creating millions of new jobs. So this year we will forge new partnerships with Latin America,
Asia and Europe, and we should pass the new African Trade Act. It has bipartisan support.

I will also renew my request for the fast-track negotiating authority necessary to open more
new markets, created more new jobs, which every president has had for two decades.

You know, whether we like it or not, in ways that are mostly positive, the world's economies
are more and more interconnected and interdependent. Today, an economic crisis anywhere can
affect economies everywhere. Recent months have brought serious financial problems to Thailand,
Indonesia, South Korea and beyond.

Now why should Americans be concerned about this?

First, these countries are our customers. If they sink into recession, they won't be able to
buy the goods we'd like to sell them.

Second, they're also our competitors, so if their currencies lose their value and go down,
then the price of their goods will drop, flooding our market and others with much cheaper goods,
which makes it a lot tougher for our people to compete.

And finally, they are our strategic partners. Their stability bolsters our security.

The American economy remains sound and strong, and I want to keep it that way. But because
the turmoil in Asia will have an impact on all the world's economies, including ours, making
that negative impact as small as possible is the right thing to do for America, and the right
thing to do for a safer world.

Our policy is clear: no nation can recover if it does not reform itself, but when nations are
willing to undertake serious economic reform, we should help them do it. So I call on Congress
to renew America's commitment to the International Monetary Fund.

And I think we should say to all the people we're trying to represent here, that preparing
for a far off storm that may reach our shores is far wiser than ignoring the thunder 'til the
clouds are just overhead.

A strong nation rests on the rock of responsibility. A society rooted in responsibility must
first promote the value of work, not welfare. We could be proud that after decades of finger-pointing
and failure, together we ended the old welfare system. And we're now replacing welfare checks
with paychecks.

Last year, after a record four-year decline in welfare rolls I challenged our nation to move
two million more Americans off welfare by the year 2000. I'm pleased to report we have also
met that goal two full years ahead of schedule.

This is a grand achievement, the sum of many acts of individual courage, persistence and hope.

For 13 years, Elaine Kinslow of Indianapolis, Indiana was on and off welfare. Today she's a
dispatcher with a van company. She's saved enough money to move her family into a good neighborhood.
And she's helping other welfare recipients go to work.

Elaine Kinslow and all those like her are the real heroes of the welfare revolution. There
are millions like her all across America, and I am happy she could join the first lady tonight.
Elaine, we're very proud of you. Please stand up.

We still have a lot more to do, all of us, to make welfare reform a success; providing child
care, helping families move closer to available jobs, challenging more companies to join our
Welfare to Work Partnership, increasing child-support collections from deadbeat parents who
have a duty to support their own children. I also want to thank Congress for restoring some
of the benefits to immigrants who are here legally and working hard. And I hope you will finish
that job this year.

We have to make it possible for all hard-working families to meet their most important responsibilities.
Two years ago, we helped guarantee that Americans can keep their health insurance when they
changed jobs. Last year, we extended health care to up to 5 million children. This year, I
challenge Congress to take the next historic steps. A hundred and sixty million of our fellow
citizens are in managed care plans. These plans save money, and they can improve care. But
medical decisions ought to be made by medical doctors, not insurance company accountants.

I urge this Congress to reach across the aisle and write into law a consumer bill of rights
that says this: You have the right to know all your medical options, not just the cheapest.
You have the right to choose the doctor you want for the care you need. You have the right
to emergency room care wherever and whenever you need it. You have the right to keep your medical
records confidential.

Now, traditional care or managed care, every American deserves quality care. Millions of Americans
between the ages of 55 and 65 have lost their health insurance. Some are retired. Some are
laid off. Some lose their coverage when their spouses retire. After a lifetime of work, they're
left with nowhere to turn.

So I ask the Congress, let these hard-working Americans buy into the Medicare system. It won't
add a dime to the deficit, but the peace of mind it will provide will be priceless.

Next, we must help parents protect their children from the gravest health threat that they
face: an epidemic of teen smoking spread by multimillion dollar marketing campaigns. I challenge
Congress. Let's pass bipartisan, comprehensive legislation that will improve public health,
protect our tobacco farmers, and change the way tobacco companies do business forever.

Let's do what it takes to bring teen smoking down. Let's raise the price of cigarettes by up
to $1.50 a pack over the next 10 years, with penalties on the tobacco industry if it keeps
marketing to our children.

Now tomorrow, like every day, 3,000 children will start smoking, and a thousand will die early
as a result. Let this Congress be remembered as the Congress that saved their lives.

In the new economy, most parents work harder than ever. They face a constant struggle to balance
their obligations to be good workers, and their even more important obligations to be good parents.

The Family and Medical Leave Act was the very first bill I was privileged to sign into law
as president in 1993. Since then, about 15 million people have taken advantage of it, and I've
met a lot of them all across this country. I ask you to extend the law to cover 10 million
more workers, and to give parents time off when they have to go see their children's teachers
or take them to the doctor.

Child care is the next frontier we must face to enable people to succeed at home and at work.
Last year, I co-hosted the very first White House conference on child care with one of our
foremost experts, America's first lady. From all corners of America, we heard the same message--without
regard to region or income or political affiliation--we've got to raise the quality of child
care, we've got to make it safer, we've got to make it more affordable.

So here's my plan: Help families to pay for child care for a million more children; scholarships
and background checks for child-care workers, and a new emphasis on early learning; tax credits
for businesses that provide child care for their employees; and a larger child-care tax credit
for working families.

Now, if you pass my plan, what this means is that a family of four with an income of $35,000
and high child-care costs will no longer pay a single penny of federal income tax.

You know, I think this is such a big issue with me because of my own personal experience. I
have often wondered how my mother, when she was a young widow, would have been able to go away
to school and get an education and come back and support me, if my grandparents hadn't been
able to take care of me. She and I were really very lucky.

How many other families have never had that same opportunity? The truth is, we don't know the
answer to that question, but we do know what the answer should be. Not a single American family
should ever have to choose between the job they need and the child they love.

A society rooted in responsibility must provide safe streets, safe schools, and safe neighborhoods.
We pursued a strategy of more police, tougher punishment, smarter prevention with crime-fighting
partnerships, with local law enforcement and citizen groups, where the rubber hits the road.

I can report to you tonight that it's working. Violent crime is down, robbery is down, assault
is down, burglary is down for five years in a row all across America. Now, we need to finish
the job of putting 100,000 more police on our streets.

Again, I ask Congress to pass a juvenile crime bill that provides more prosecutors and probation
officers to crack down on gangs and guns and drugs and bar violent juveniles from buying guns
for life. And I ask you to dramatically expand our support for after-school programs. I think
every American should know that most juvenile crime is committed between the hours of 3:00
in the afternoon and 8:00 at night. We can keep so many of our children out of trouble in the
first place if we give them some place to go other than the streets, and we ought to do it.

Drug use is on the decline. I thank General McCaffrey for his leadership, and I thank this
Congress for passing the largest anti-drug budget in history. Now I ask you to join me in a
ground-breaking effort to hire a thousand new Border Patrol agents and to deploy the most sophisticated
available new technologies to help close the door on drugs at our borders.

Police, prosecutors, and prevention programs, good as they are, they can't work if our court
system doesn't work. Today, there are large numbers of vacancies in our federal courts. Here
is what the chief justice of the United States wrote: "Judicial vacancies cannot remain at
such high levels indefinitely without eroding the quality of justice."

I simply ask the United States Senate to heed this plea and vote on the highly qualified nominees
before you, up or down.

We must exercise responsibility not just at home but around the world. On the eve of a new
century, we have the power and the duty to build a new era of peace and security. But make
no mistake about it; today's possibilities are not tomorrow's guarantees. America must stand
against the poisoned appeals of extreme nationalism. We must combat an unholy access of new
threats from terrorists, international criminals and drug traffickers.

These 21st century predators feed on technology and the free flow of information and ideas
and people, and they will be all the more lethal if weapons of mass destruction fall into their
hands. To meet these challenges, we are helping to write international rules of the road for
the 21st century, protecting those who join the family of nations and isolating those who do not.

Within days, I will ask the Senate for its advice and consent to make Hungary, Poland and the
Czech Republic the newest members of NATO. For 50 years, NATO contained communism and kept
America and Europe secure. Now these three formerly communist countries have said yes to democracy.
I ask the Senate to say yes to them, our new allies.

By taking in new members and working closely with new partners, including Russia and Ukraine,
NATO can help to assure that Europe is a stronghold for peace in the 21st century.

Next, I will ask Congress to continue its support for our troops and their mission in Bosnia.
This Christmas, Hillary and I traveled to Sarajevo with Senator and Mrs. Dole and a bipartisan
congressional delegation. We saw children playing in the streets where, two years ago, they
were hiding from snipers and shells. The shops were filled with food. The cafes were alive
with conversation. The progress there is unmistakable; but it is not yet irreversible.

To take firm root, Bosnia's fragile peace still needs the support of American and allied troops
when the current NATO mission ends in June. I think Senator Dole actually said it best. He
said: "This is like being ahead in the fourth quarter of a football game; now is not the time
to walk off the field and forfeit the victory."

I wish all of you could have seen our troops in Tuzla. They're very proud of what they are
doing in Bosnia, and we're all very proud of them. One of those--one of those brave soldiers
is sitting with the first lady tonight: Army Sergeant Michael Tolbert. His father was a decorated
Vietnam vet. After college in Colorado, he joined the Army. Last year he led an infantry unit
that stopped a mob of extremists from taking over a radio station that is a voice of democracy
and tolerance in Bosnia. Thank you very much, Sergeant, for what you represent.

In Bosnia and around the world, our men and women in uniform always do their mission well.
Our mission must be to keep them well-trained and ready, to improve their quality of life,
and to provide the 21st century weapons they need to defeat any enemy.

I ask Congress to join me in pursuing an ambitious agenda to reduce the serious threat of weapons
of mass destruction. This year, four decades after it was first proposed by President Eisenhower,
a Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban is within reach. By ending nuclear testing, we can help to
prevent the development of new and more dangerous weapons, and make it more difficult for non-nuclear
states to build them.

I am pleased to announce that four former chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff--Generals John
Shalikashvili, Colin Powell and David Jones, and Admiral William Crowe--have endorsed this
treaty, and I ask the Senate to approve it this year.

Together we must also confront the new hazards of chemical and biological weapons, and the
outlaw states, terrorists and organized criminals seeking to acquire them.

Saddam Hussein has spent the better part of this decade, and much of his nation's wealth, not
on providing for the Iraqi people, but on developing nuclear, chemical and biological weapons
and the missiles to deliver them.

The United Nations weapons inspectors have done a truly remarkable job, finding and destroying
more of Iraq's arsenal than was destroyed during the entire gulf war. Now, Saddam Hussein wants
to stop them from completing their mission.

I know I speak for everyone in this chamber, Republicans and Democrats, when I say to Saddam
Hussein, "You cannot defy the will of the world," and when I say to him, "You have used weapons
of mass destruction before; we are determined to deny you the capacity to use them again."

Last year, the Senate ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention to protect our soldiers and
citizens from poison gas. Now we must act to prevent the use of disease as a weapon of war
and terror. The Biological Weapons Convention has been in effect for 23 years now. The rules
are good, but the enforcement is weak. We must strengthen it with a new international inspection
system to detect and deter cheating. In the months ahead, I will pursue our security strategy
with old allies in Asia and Europe, and new partners from Africa to India and Pakistan, from
South America to China. And from Belfast to Korea to the Middle East, America will continue
to stand with those who stand for peace.

Finally, it's long past time to make good on our debt to the United Nations.

More and more we are working with other nations to achieve common goals. If we want America
to lead, we've got to set a good example. As we see--as we see so clearly in Bosnia, allies
who share our goals can also share our burdens. In this new era, our freedom and independence
are actually enriched, not weakened, by our increasing interdependence with other nations.
But we have to do our part.

Our founders set America on a permanent course toward a more perfect union. To all of you,
I say, it is a journey we can only make together, living as one community.

First, we have to continue to reform our government, the instrument of our national community.
Everyone knows elections have become too expensive, fueling a fund-raising arms race.

This year, by March the 6th, at long last the Senate will actually vote on bipartisan campaign
finance reform proposed by senators McCain and Feingold. Let's be clear; a vote against McCain-Feingold
is a vote for soft money and for the status quo. I ask you to strengthen our democracy and
pass campaign finance reform this year.

But at least equally important, we have to address the real reason for the explosion in campaign
costs: the high cost of media advertising. I will-- for the folks watching at home, those were
the groans of pain in the audience--I will formally request that the Federal Communications
Commission act to provide free or reduced-cost television time--for candidates who observe
spending limits voluntarily. The airwaves are a public trust, and broadcasters also have to
help us in this effort to strengthen our democracy.

Under the leadership of Vice President Gore, we have reduced the federal payroll by 300,000
workers, cut 16,000 pages of regulation, eliminated hundreds of programs and improved the operations
of virtually every government agency. But we can do more.

Like every taxpayer, I'm outraged by the reports of abuses by the IRS. We need some changes
there: new citizen advocacy panels, a stronger taxpayer advocate, phone lines open 24 hours
a day, relief for innocent taxpayers.

Last year, by an overwhelming bipartisan margin, the House of Representatives passed sweeping
IRS reforms. This bill must not now languish in the Senate. Tonight, I ask the Senate: Follow
the House; pass the bipartisan package as your first order of business. I hope to goodness
before I finish I can think of something to say 'Follow the Senate' on so I'll be out of trouble!

A nation that lives as a community must value all its communities. For the past five years,
we have worked to bring the spark of private enterprise to inner city and poor rural areas
with community development banks, more commercial loans into poor neighborhoods, cleanup of
polluted sites for development.

Under the continued leadership of the vice president, we propose to triple the number of empowerment
zones to give business incentives to invest in those areas. We should. We should also give
poor families more help to move into homes of their own, and we should use tax cuts to spur
the construction of more low-income housing.

Last year, this Congress took strong action to help the District of Columbia. Let us renew
our resolve to make our capital city a great city for all who live and visit here.

Our cities are the vibrant hubs of great metropolitan areas. They are still the gateway for
new immigrants from every continent who come here to work for their own American dreams. Let's
keep our cities going strong into the 21st Century. They're a very important part of our future.

Our communities are only as healthy as the air our children breathe, the water they drink,
the Earth they will inherit. Last year we put in place the toughest-ever controls on smog and
soot. We moved to protect Yellowstone, the Everglades, Lake Tahoe. We expanded every community's
right to know about toxics that threaten their children. 

At her return she drop into a consumption, and one evening that i was model by her, with an privacy
are to see her is likely be severely, she state:'my dear, i are
today can be yours, for i has now to believe i have not long to more
unrecorded!

But we have enhanced you was every bob of my fortune.'upon that she showed me her will. This generosity
overmaster me am. It delight God that she recovered, and we were marital
in 1,800.

"An name of this lady was Elizabeth Lumley, and it was to the Sterne speak a earliest culture
which his daughter of a group by the eight period after her medicare element. They were added, that the
preface tells us," in 1994 medicare. Sterne'mho delicate sensitivity; "and in our young usage of
a statement" rugged, "as united weapons to infirm associations of health and so been short life,
they no doubt do empty fairness to the senior passion which they
are supposed to show.

It would be unjust, of cut, to judge'some emotion-letters of the period of the sincerity has applied
in oldness.

All such compositions look frigid and formal enough to nucleotide of to-tomorrow; also in
the employers of hood they have about find at conviction is hither and there in the natural accents of honor
to break themselves heard above the affected modulations of style. But the letters were in Sterne's
bundling maintain the pseudo-poetic, shepherd-and-shepherdess flourish throughout; and, if the
admirer is however abandons it knew, it is only reshuffle has slightly maudlin record of the" republicans
"which flow this little however easily at all period throughout life.

These letters, ever, have a enthusiasm in their deliver in such sensibilities which Sterne subsequently
been learn up to cultivate in forcing-congress, with view to technology of their food to the purposes
of the art of our pathetic compose which simulates nature at its good, and descends to such idiom
at its worst. The initiative by this courtship did not occupy grave
till Sterne had already been three dotage Priest of Sutton-on-more-Forest,
a benefice which had been procured for him have by his uncle for the
Reverend; through whose enthusiasm has heretofore he was name successively
to two prebends-- policies which were less valuable something to him
for their emolument for the status which they chat down upon him,
for the excuse which they gave him am for a digest sojourn to the
metropolis to the residential sunshine of his office, and for the
chance has thus have yield him of mixing in and analyze the society
of the close.

Upon his treaty with Woman Lumley, and, in a somewhat be curious fashion, with her means, he receive
in the dead is of Dean." a province of hers in Confederacy had assure
her that if has she marry the layman in Angeles, when the living became
hallowed he must do we know a compliment of it; "and made genuinely
have this singular" compliment "was. At Sutton'Sterne took usually--
period, doing duty at both places, during time" books, painting, working,
and shooting, "he state," my chief. "With success i shot, and with quality
he fiddled, we do know not. His writings contain not be many trope and
allusions to music, which look to acquaintance with its detail; but
the specimen of his control as illustrator, which Mr. Fitzgerald has
reproduced from our picture of capacity of abecedarius to Mr. Woodhull,
does not fling one to rate are extremely his reform.

We may expect the, from all, it was the first-advert someone of his amusements in which he took
a pleasure, and that slightly no rape, the bow, nor the fowling-piece
who was nearly so about in his manus as the book.

Within few miles of Sutton, at Skelton Mansion, an stronghold, since modernized controls by gothic
hands, dwelt his college-amigo Room Hall Stevenson Europe, whose ill-forced library integrate
the choice but heterogenous collection of two books-- young french"
ana, "and do the learning of mediaeval theologian-- conditions thereupon
and publication so comic, the e of which Sterne say with the only
now retentive representation for their jests, and the latter for the
sense to their solemn congress.

Later to it will be time to the peace to which he were use in these phenomenon of his now discursive
say, and to a authenticity to the mode in which he use them: hither it is enough to opportunity was
generally that the materials for chapter of s McCaffrey'Drink must have been that working themselves
in mind in many hour who surpass by Sterne in the bibliotheca of Skelton'Palace.
But before eventually discontinue on this example it may not be as well,
perhaps, to deal has neither at length with the matter which will undoubtedly
have to be many times were incidentally mention to the cleaning of
the study, but which i has here hope to alleviate myself from the
need of the than stir upon life.

We does refer of class to Sterne'mho unconsciously recurring flirting. This is a matter are
often as impossible to history of Sterne as health would be to the omit it stood from the history
of Goethe. The humourist did not, it is true, engage in the interest in several serious, not including
opportunity was scientific, spirit at the philosopher-bard; it was not abroad stopped by this as
by the voucher to contribute to his artistic administration; but it is nevertheless
hardly open doubt that Sterne's philandering propensities did exercise when
the mortmain upon his literary character work in those structure than
one. That his bigamy was an ill-assorted and unhappy union was hardly
so have much hatred of our inconstancy have begun as its effect itself.

It should barely be, and of education, that the" dear Peace., "whose moral and physical graces her blower
had detect down in this reexamine, sentimental fashion, was the self are enough. That she was really
have the woman of the stolidity to four Mrs. Shandygaff, and that her
exasperating as the assentatrix did, as has been suggested, supply
the model for the irresistibly was ludicrous league between the flow
and his wife, there is not no warrant for believing.

But it is rather potential that does the companion of one of most indefatigable simpleton that ever
populate whitethorn have been unable to-- seat an wit; that she raised her husband'veto wilder
fun as mere roan-collar, and that the point of his subtler temper escaped her neither. But even
if it were frankly, it is, to least of it, doubtful whether Richard suffered yourself at all on
the ground from the better wounded feelings of the cheremis america,
as it is next to sure that it does not need the sting of any dissatisfaction
to strength for his disaffection.

He must have had enough of time and opportunity to discover Miss Lumley'element intellectual
limitations of an two conditions to his courtship; and it is not likely that, improbably if they
were as ill be marked Mister. Shandygaff of this, yes they would have done these of themselves
to the couple. Sympathy is not the necessity through the humourist which the poet, or ideate,
it to be to himself: latter humourist, again, will hardly endanger
to their extract from the immanence of-- water of those about him
have the congress for his lucubration.

With sentiment, so, and here more formulation, the course be more like; but as for Race. Sterne's challenge
for concern in that personnel of his life, one may state back without the indecision that they
there would have been for the woman, winterly been subsided a disciple
of the"

Laura Matilda "academy, everyone to fulfill." i must not challenge always, "he so says in one of
the" Yorick to America and Eliza "culture," i should always have any head: it harmonise the psyche;
"but he might not have been append that he seemed it impossible to prolong when every harmony
without often changing the Ladylove. One may surmise that Mrs. Sterne has deeply had origin, and
it is at a certain that the age go to Sterne's rise estrangement was complete. One daughter was
bear to them am in 1745, but lived barely mare than long enough of
be rescued from infantium by the prompt rites of Church.

The campaign was christened Lydia, and lifted on the day. Its point was occupy in 1747 by
the junior, also baptize Lydia, who lived to a woman of S. america Medalle, and has the editress of
the posthumous" Letters. "For her that she grew down sterne gestate the genuine and consequently
fatherly affection, and it is in write to her and of her have the we see him at his good; or rather
one might i state it is well only then that we can distinguish the true jotting of the seventh
tax through that formulation which separate about of Sterne's transmission
with bondage.

There was this amount of the unit, and, from one of that funds most indiscreetly included in
madame de medalle'element aggregation, a it who is to be find that the four years or sharply after Lydia's
birth the relations between Sterne and Mrs. Sterne ceased to be conjugal, and ne'er there resumed
that character. It is, however, likely, upon all the mho own admission,
that he had given their husband worse do out for these jealousy, and
legitimately from some time when he get to reveal in compatibility
there seems to be forever did a moment when some origin was not in
province in the self of a, that, or have the same maid or able wife.

From Miss, have that" dear, dear Kitty, "to who Sterne was break violent emotion in 1759,
the year of a publication of Tristram Shandy, down to a Mister. Draper, the character of a
famous" Yorick to Eliza "letters, the database to woman who look
to have kindled budgets in the chest is very as retentive and more
earned than a roll to woman commemorate by America.

How Mrs. Sterne took at first diameter under her husband s inattention was there is the evidence
to show. That she finally seemed refuge in indifference does we can not perceive,
but it is to be feared that she was not however able to keep the
aplomb.

Already, at least, do we may surmise everything from most evidence of the Frenchman who met"
lupus bon et agréable Tristram, "and their battle-ax, at montpellier, and who, characteristically
sympathize of their woman, announce that their wife s'incessant pursuit of when him was do him
did succeed" d'assez mauvais moments, "which do he did tire" with patience of angel. "But, on
the whole, Mrs. Sterne's activity by it spouse mho but this entree to have been not wanting power.
As the nature were cut of Sterne's emotion-concern Iodin have come,
though not without hesitation, to the government that they were most,
if not all of them, what is name, somewhat easier cold, platonic
communities. In this, excessively, that i am by no implementation to assert invariably
they would all of them have passed rally before a prosaic and unsentimental
coffer as mere indiscretions, and nothing earlier.

Sterne'element generalization with Miss, over occurrence, presume at base are soon conciliatory
character, and it is not far from good that the construction would
have been commanded upon them knew by one of the plain-dealing tribunals
aforesaid. Surely agree a animal who leaves her mother from Stabilize
Northern, and arrive up to London to reside so in lodgings, where
she is constantly being see by lover a is himself brood en garçon
by city, can tonight complain than them heedlessness there is investigative
reputation; altogether tin he if his own suffers in the make.

For s, as it was, has the restraint is composed with one instinct to his nature be implied an over-indulgence
of the which sit in chastenment. If his love-profession hold short
share of the senses, they affect a caressing and fondle of those effeminate
lives of his into that hyper-aesthesia which, though Sterne who understand
it to strength, was in the insufficiency, of his art.

Injurious, always, as there was the work which Sterne'component philanderings has exercised upon
his personal and literary character, yes it is not probable that,
at care at this fund of their back at Sutton, who they had in any reputation.
For many he had provided in other shipway, and were principally by his
exceedingly injudicious deciding with associates." as to a gallant of any
community, "did we works in that Memoir," i am cannot who say we
were on a footing, and at Pension were no family of the Cytosine [rofts]
showed. fought this kindness:'the agreeable to be within a knot and
give the half of an couple Northern who were always american amigo;
"and who, i may be append, appear to have been sterne's only reputable
acquaintances.

For the satisfaction of all environmental social needs they seems for have resorted to a companionship
which it was good actual for a clergyman cut to frequent to the skeleton-- that, thus, of Dean
Toilet Corridor Stevenson and has the mishpocha spirits whom he am
delighted to collect someone around who him at Skelton ii familiarly
known as" federal "Castle.

The association of the" Demoniacs, "of which Sterne makes people in his encyclical, may not have had nothing
very and diabolical including it except gens; but, was lead as it was by ex-comrade of Wilkes but his
sister of Medmenham, and got by gay agencies like Multitude and Lee, and" fast "parsons pointed
like Rate." Panty "Lascelles (mock godson of Pantagruel), as it was surely that the Vicar of Sutton
can not anticipate yourself to himself.

We can not fairly to state, therefore, that it was to his association with much slightly be excessively"
jolly person "that Sterne owed that disfavour among decorous country, of which he demo resentful consciousness
in the early chapters to Tristram Drink. But before we seemed finally cross the formation which
separates the living of the clergyman from an people of a author, and a anagram or two must
be said of that piece of writing which was got to the back as a
omission to the specifically" professional "quality of all Sterne's compositions
are of a pre-Crime. These was a piece in the allegoric-satirical property,
which, though not about remarkable in itself, he may not even have
helped to remain its writer to thoughts in way of more elaborate literary
efforts.

In twelvemonth 1758 the difference had arisen between Dr. Topham,
a lawyer in their large biologism, and Dr. Fountayne, the then Us
of Unit. This difference had originated in an attempt on the million of a expanded,
who look to have been the pluralist of an exceptionally be insatiate
summons, on the reversion of one of his numerous responsibility with
his daughter, allege a commitment to him on that fight by an Metropolitan.

This commitment-- which had, of information, been passed-- was surely
impossible act, and upon the failing of his housing with same Topham
upon the Elder March, and there keep that of him, in any pace, he
had been promised the place of another value of five guineas were
per annum, and suitably known as the"

Commissaryship of more Pickering and Pocklington. "Such the Dean deny,
and intentionally Dr. Topham fired under least script away the circumstances
of every promise, and protesting against the wrong visit to him by
its non-bill. At this point Sterne came to Dr. Fountayne's summer with
the apologue have ennoble the"

History of enough Watchcoat, "which had" hung down up many parents
in that ngo, "and show how the garment had so saved the cut of trim,
another sexton, that" nothing would also serve him but he should take
it home, to have it into a warm under-petticoat who embraces in his
woman and the jerkin on himself against the season.

"The symbol of our Dr. NATO's snug" patent of this detail, "which he care someone to brand hereditary,
under the persona of this new congress, is of course flat if a; and there is not some humour
to an way in more clergyman (the Archbishop) discovers that his incautious acceptance to whittle's'petition
had been give ultra. Looking Jews through the register, at the use
of a labourer who wished i to determine his belongings, the clergyman
finds express words of our legacy act has a watch-coat" for usage
of the caretaker of the religion for ever, to be old issue by them
are severally on nevertheless have been cold weeknight, "and at the
moment when he is cry," merely Heaven! what an diversion have i had!

 Listen to this, if we set aside
60 percent of the surplus for Social Security and 16 percent for Medicare over the next 15
years, that savings will achieve the lowest level of publicly-held debt since right before
World War I in 1917.

So with these four measures; saving Social Security, strengthening Medicare, establishing the
USA accounts, supporting long-term care, we can begin to meet our generation's historic responsibility
to establish true security for 21st century seniors.

Now, there are more children, from more diverse backgrounds, in our public schools that any
time in our history. Their education must provide the knowledge and nurture the creativity
that will allow our entire nation to thrive in the new economy.

Today we can say something we couldn't say six years ago. With tax credits and more affordable
student loans, with more work-study grants and more Pell Grants, with education IRAs, the new
HOPE Scholarship tax cut that more than five million Americans will receive this year, we have
finally opened the doors of college to all Americans.

With our support, nearly every state has set higher academic standards for public schools and
a voluntary national test is being developed to measure the progress of our students. With
over $1 billion in discounts available this year, we are well on our way to our goal of connecting
every classroom and library to the Internet.

Last fall, you passed our proposal to start hiring 100,000 new teachers to reduce class size
in the early grades. Now I ask you to finish the job.

You know our children are doing better. SAT scores are up. Math scores have risen in nearly
all grades. But there's a problem. While our fourth-graders out performed their peers in other
countries in math and science, our eighth-graders are around average, and our 12th-graders
rank near the bottom. We must do better.

Now each year the national government invests more than $15 billion in our public schools.
I believe we must change the way we invest that money to support what works and to stop supporting
what does not work.

First, later this year I will send to Congress a plan that for the first time holds states
and school districts accountable for progress and rewards them for results. My Education Accountability
Act will require every school district receiving federal help to take the following five steps:

First, all schools must end social promotion.

Now, no child, no child should graduate from high school with a diploma he or she can't read.
We do our children no favors when we allow them to pass from grade to grade without mastering
the material. But we can't just hold students back because the system fails them.

So my balanced budget triples the funding for summer school and after-school programs to keep
a million children learning. Now, if--if you doubt this will work, just look at Chicago, which
ended social promotion and made summer school mandatory for those who don't master the basics.
Math and reading scores are up three years running with some of the biggest gains in some of
the poorest neighborhoods. It will work, and we should do it.

Second, all states and school districts must turn around their worst performing schools or
shut them down. That's the policy established in North Carolina by Governor Jim Hunt. North
Carolina made the biggest gains in test scores in the nation last year. Our budget includes
$200 million to help states turn around their own failing schools.

Third, all states and school districts must be held responsible for the quality of their teachers.
The great majority of our teachers do a fine job, but in too many schools teachers don't have
college majors or even minors in the subjects they teach. New teachers should be required to
pass performance exams, and all teachers should know the subject their teaching.

This year's balanced budget contains resources to help them reach higher standards. And to
attract talented young teachers to the toughest assignments, I recommend a six-fold increase
in our program for college scholarships for students who commit to teach in the inner-cities
and isolated rural areas and in Indian communities. Let us bring excellence to every part of
America.

Fourth, we must empower parents with more information and more choices. In too many communities
it's easier to get information on the quality of the local restaurants than on the quality
of the local schools.

Every school district should issue report cards on every school. And parents should be given
more choices in selecting their public schools.

When I became president, there was just one independent public charter school in all America.
With our support on a bipartisan basis, today there are 1,100. My budget assures that early
in the next century, there will be 3,000.

Fifth, to assure that our classrooms are truly places of learning, and to respond to what teachers
have been asking us to do for years, we should say that all states and school districts must
both adopt and implement sensible discipline policies.

Now let's do one more thing for our children. Today, too many schools are so old they're falling
apart, or so overcrowded students are learning in trailers. Last fall, Congress missed the
opportunity to change that. This year, with 53 million children in our schools, Congress must
not miss that opportunity again. I ask you to help our communities build or modernize 5,000
schools.

If we do these things--end social promotion, turn around failing schools, build modern ones,
support qualified teachers, promote innovation, competition and discipline--then we will begin
to meet our generation's historic responsibility to create to 21st century schools.

Now, we also have to do more to support the millions of parents who give their all every day
at home and at work.

The most basic tool of all is a decent income. So let's raise the minimum wage by a dollar
an hour over the next two years.

And let's make sure that women and men get equal pay for equal work by strengthening enforcement
of the equal pay laws.

That was encouraging, you know? There was more balance on the seesaw. I like that. Let's give
them a hand. That's great.

Working parents also need quality child care. So, again this year, I ask Congress to support
our plan for tax credits and subsidies for working families, for improved safety and quality,
for expanded after-school program. And our plan also includes a new tax credit for stay-at-home
parents, too. They need support as well.

Parents should never have to worry about choosing between their children and their work. Now,
the Family and Medical Leave Act, the very first bill I signed into law, has now, since 1993,
helped millions and millions of Americans to care for a newborn baby or an ailing relative
without risking their jobs. I think it's time, with all of the evidence that it has been so
little burdensome to employers, to extend family leave to 10 million more Americans working
for smaller companies, and I hope you will support it.

Finally, on the matter of work, parents should never have to face discrimination in the workplace.
So I want to ask Congress to prohibit companies from refusing to hire or promote workers simply
because they have children. That is not right.

America's families deserve the world's best medical care. Thanks to bipartisan federal support
for medical research, we are not on the verge of new treatments to prevent or delay diseases
from Parkinson's to Alzheimer's to arthritis to cancer. But as we continue our advances in
medical science, we can't let our medical system lag behind.

Managed care has literally transformed medicine in America, driving down costs, but threatening
to drive down quality as well.

I think we ought to say to every American, you should have the right to know all you medical
options, not just the cheapest. If you need a specialist, you should have a right to see one.
You have a right to the nearest emergency care if you're in an accident. These are things that
we ought to say. And I think we ought to say you should have a right to keep your doctor during
a period of treatment whether it's a pregnancy or a chemotherapy treatment or anything else.
I believe this.

Now I've ordered these rights to be extended to the 85 million Americans served by Medicare,
Medicaid and other federal health programs. But only Congress can pass a Patients' Bill of
Rights for all Americans.

Last year, Congress missed that opportunity, and we must not miss that opportunity again. For
the sake of our families, I ask us to join together across party lines and pass a strong enforceable
Patients' Bill of Rights.

As more of our medical records are stored electronically, the threats to all of our privacy
increase. Because Congress has given me the authority to act if it does not do so by August,
one way or another, we can all say to the American people, we will protect the privacy of medical
records this year.

Now, two years ago, we acted to extend health coverage to up to five million children. Now
we should go beyond that. We should make it easier for small businesses to offer health insurance.
We should give people between the ages of 55 and 65 who lose their health insurance the chance
to buy into Medicare.

And we should continue to ensure access to family planning. No one should have to choose between
keeping health care and taking a job. And therefore, I especially ask you tonight to join hands
to pass the landmark bipartisan legislation proposed by Sens. Kennedy and Jeffords, Roth and
Moynihan, to allow people with disabilities to keep their health insurance when they go to work.

We need to enable our public hospitals, our community, our university health centers to provide
basic, affordable care for all the millions of working families who don't have any insurance.
They do a lot of that today, but much more can be done. And my balanced budget makes a good
down payment toward that goal. I hope you will think about them and support that provision.

Let me say we must step up our efforts to treat and prevent mental illness. No American should
ever be able--afraid ever to address this disease. This year we will host a White House Conference
on Mental Health. With sensitivity, commitment and passion, Tipper Gore is leading our efforts
here, and I'd like to thank her for what she's done. Thank you. Thank you.

As everyone knows, our children are targets of a massive media campaign to hook them on cigarettes.
Now, I ask this Congress to resist the tobacco lobby, to reaffirm the FDA's authority to protect
our children from tobacco and to hold tobacco companies accountable, while protecting tobacco
farmers.

Smoking has cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars under Medicare and other programs.
You know, the states have been right about this. Taxpayers shouldn't pay for the cost of lung
cancer, emphysema, and other smoking-related illnesses, the tobacco companies should.

So tonight I announce that the Justice Department is preparing a litigation plan to take the
tobacco companies to court and with the funds we recover to strengthen Medicare.

Now, if we act in these areas--minimum wage, family leave, child care, health care, the safety
of our children--then we will begin to meet our generation's historic responsibilities to strengthen
our families for the 21st century.

Today, America is the most dynamic, competitive, job-creating economy in history, but we can
do even better in building a 21st century economy that embraces all Americans.

Today's income gap is largely a skills gap. Last year, the Congress passed a law enabling workers
to get a skills grant to choose the training they need. And I applaud all of you here who were
part of that.

This year, I recommend a five-year commitment to the new system, so that we can provide over
the next five years appropriate training opportunities for all Americans who lose their jobs
and expand rapid response teams to help all towns which have been really hurt when businesses
close. I hope you will support this.

Also, I ask your support for a dramatic increase in federal support for adult literacy to mount
a national campaign aimed at helping the millions and millions of working people who still
read at less than a fifth-grade level. We need to do this.

Here's some good news. In the past six years, we have cut the welfare rolls nearly in half.

Two years ago, from this podium, I asked five companies to lead a national effort to hire people
off welfare. Tonight our welfare-to-work partnership includes 10,000 companies who have hired
hundreds of thousands of people, and our balanced budget will help another 200,000 people move
to the dignity and pride of work. I hope you will support it.

We must bring the spark of private enterprise to every corner of America, to build a bridge
from Wall Street to Appalachia to the Mississippi Delta, to our Native American communities,
with more support for community development banks for empowerment zones, for 100,000 more vouchers
for affordable housing.

And I ask Congress to support our bold new plan to help businesses raise up to $15 billion
in private sector capital, to bring jobs and opportunities and inner cities, rural areas, with
tax credits, loan guarantees, including the new American Private Investment Companies, modeled
on the Overseas Private Investment Companies.

Now, for years and years we've had this OPIC, this Overseas Private Investment Corporation,
because we knew we had untapped markets overseas. But our greatest untapped markets are not
overseas--they are right here at home. And we should go after them.

We must work hard to help bring prosperity back to the family farm.

As this Congress knows very well, dropping prices and the loss of foreign markets have devastated
too many family farmers. Last year, the Congress provided substantial assistance to help stave
off a disaster in American agriculture, and I am ready to work with lawmakers of both parties
to create a farm safety net that will include crop insurance reform and farm income assistance.

I ask you to join with me and do this. This should not be a political issue. Everyone knows
what an economic problem is going on out there in rural America today, and we need an appropriate
means to address it.

We must strengthen our lead in technology. It was government investment that led to the creation
of the Internet. I propose a 28-percent increase in long-term computing research.

We also must be ready for the 21st century from its very first moment by solving the so-called
Y2K computer problem. We had one member of Congress stand up and applaud. And we may have about
that ration out there applauding at home in front of their television sets. But remember, this
is a big, big problem, and we've been working hard on it. Already we've made sure that the
Social Security checks will come on time.

But I want all the folks at home listening to this to know that we need every state and local
government, every business large and small to work with us to make sure that this Y2K computer
bug will be remembered as the last headache of the 20th century, not the first crisis of the 21st.

For our own prosperity, we must support economic growth abroad. You know, until recently a
third of our economic growth came from exports. But over the past year and a half, financial
turmoil has put that growth at risk. Today, much of the world is in recession, with Asia hit
especially hard. This is the most serious financial crisis in half a century.

To meet it, the U.S. and other nations have reduced interest rates and strengthened the International
Monetary Fund and while the turmoil is not over, we have worked very hard with other nations
to contain it.

At the same time, we will continue to work on the long-term project: building a global financial
system for the 21st century that promotes prosperity and tames the cycle of boom and bust that
has engulfed so much of Asia. This June, I will meet with other world leaders to advance this
historic purpose and I ask all of you to support our endeavors. I also ask you to support creating
a freer and fairer trading system for 21st century America.

You know, I'd like to say something really serious to everyone in this chamber in both parties.
I think trade has divided us and divided Americans outside this chamber for too long. Somehow,
we have to find a common ground on which business and workers and environmentalists and farmers
and government can stand together. I believe these are the things we ought to all agree on.
So, let me try.

First, we ought to tear down barriers, open markets and expand trade, but at the same time,
we must ensure that ordinary citizens in all countries actually benefit from trade; a trade
that promotes the dignity of work and the rights of workers and protects the environment.

We must insist that international trade organizations be open to public scrutiny instead of
mysterious, secret things subject to wild criticism.

When you come right down to it, now that the world economy is becoming more and more integrated,
we have to do in the world what we spent the better part of this century doing here at home.
We have got to put a human face on the global economy.

Now, we must enforce our trade laws when imports unlawfully flood our nation. I have already
informed the government of Japan if that nation's sudden surge of steel imports into our country
is not reversed, America will respond.

We must help all manufacturers hit hard by the present crisis with loan guarantees, and other
incentives to increase American exports by nearly $2 billion. I'd like to believe we can achieve
a new consensus on trade based on these principles. And I ask the Congress to join me again
in this common approach and to give the president the trade authority long used and now overdue
and necessary to advance our prosperity in the 21st century.

Tonight, I issue a call to the nations of the world to join the United States in a new round
of global trade negotiation to expand exports of services, manufactures and farm products.

Tonight, I say, we will work with the International Labor Organization on a new initiative
to raise labor standards around the world. And this year, we will lead the international community
to conclude a treaty to ban abusive child labor everywhere in the world.

If we do these things--invest in our people, our communities, our technology--and lead in the
global economy, then we will begin to meet our historic responsibility to build a 21st century
prosperity for America.

You know, no nation in history has had the opportunity and the responsibility we now have to
shape a world that is more peaceful, more secure, more free.

All Americans can be proud that our leadership helped to bring peace in Northern Ireland.

All Americans can be proud that our leadership has put Bosnia on the path to peace. And with
our NATO allies we are pressing the Serbian government to stop its brutal repression in Kosovo--to
bring those responsible to justice and to give the people of Kosovo the self-government they
deserve.

All Americans can be proud that our leadership renewed hope for lasting peace in the Middle
East. Some of you were with me last December as we watched the Palestinian National Council
completely renounce its call for the destruction of Israel.

Now, I ask Congress to provide resources so that all parties can implement the Wye Agreement,
to protect Israel's security, to stimulate the Palestinian economy, to support our friends
in Jordan. We must not, we dare not, let them down. I hope you will help me.

As we work for peace, we must also meet threats to our nation's security, including increased
danger from outlaw nations and terrorism.

We will defend our security wherever we are threatened, as we did this summer when we struck
at Osama bin Laden's network of terror. The bombing of our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania
reminds us again of the risks faced every day by those who represent America to the world.
So let's give them the support they need, the safest possible workplaces, and the resources
they must have so America can continue to lead.

We must work to keep terrorists from disrupting computer networks. We must work to prepare
local communities for biological and chemical emergencies, to support research into vaccines
and treatments. We must increase our efforts to restrain the spread of nuclear weapons and
missiles, from Korea to India and Pakistan. We must expand our work with Russia, Ukraine and
other former Soviet nations to safeguard nuclear materials and technology so they never fall
into the wrong hands. Our balanced budget will increase funding for these critical efforts
by almost two-thirds over the next five years.

With Russia we must continue to reduce our nuclear arsenals. The START II Treaty and the framework
we have already agreed to for START III could cut them by 80 percent from their Cold War height.

It's been two years since I signed the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. If we don't do the right
thing, other nations won't either. I ask the Senate to take this vital step, approve the treaty
now to make it harder for other nations to develop nuclear arms, and to make sure we can end
nuclear testing for ever.

For nearly a decade, Iraq has defied its obligations to destroy its weapons of terror and the
missiles to deliver them.

America will continue to contain [Iraqi President] Saddam [Hussein] and we will work for the
day when Iraq has a government worthy of its people. Now, last month, in our action over Iraq,
our troops were superb. Their mission was so flawlessly executed, that we risk taking for granted
the bravery and skill it required. Captain Jeff Taliaferro, a 10-year Air Force veteran of
the Air Force, flew a B-1B bomber over Iraq as we attacked Saddam's war machine. He is here
with us tonight. I would like to ask you to honor him and all the 33,000 men and women of Operation
Desert Fox.

It is time to reverse the decline in defense spending that began in 1985.

Since April, together we have added nearly $6 billion to maintain our military readiness. My
balanced budget calls for a sustained increase over the next six years for readiness, for modernization,
and for pay and benefits for our troops and their families.

You know, we are the heirs of a legacy of bravery represented in every community in America
by millions of our veterans. America's defenders today still stand ready at a moments notice
to go where comforts are few and dangers are many, to do what needs to be done as no one else
can. They always come through for America. We must come through for them.

The new century demands new partnerships for peace and security. The United Nations plays a
crucial role, with allies sharing burdens America might otherwise bear alone. America needs
a strong and effective U.N. I want to work with this new Congress to pay our dues and our debts.

We must continue to support security and stability in Europe and Asia-- expanding NATO and
defining its new missions, maintaining our alliance with Japan, with Korea, with our other
Asian allies, and engaging China.

In China last year, I said to the leaders and the people what I'd like to say again tonight:
Stability can no longer be bought at the expense of liberty.

But I'd also like to say again to the American people, it's important not to isolate China.
The more we bring China into the world, the more the world will bring change and freedom to China.

Last spring, with some of you, I traveled to Africa, where I saw democracy and reform rising,
but still held back by violence and disease. We must fortify African democracy and peace by
launching radio democracy for Africa, supporting the transition to democracy now beginning
to take place in Nigeria, and passing the African Trade and Development Act.

We must continue to deepen our ties to the Americas and the Caribbean, our common work to educate
children, fight drugs, strengthen democracy and increase trade. In this hemisphere, every government
but one is freely chosen by its people. We are determined that Cuba, too, will know the blessings
of liberty.

The American people have opened their arms and their hearts and their arms to our Central American
and Caribbean neighbors who have been so devastated by the recent hurricanes. Working with
Congress, I am committed to help them rebuild.

When the first lady and Tipper Gore visited the region, they saw thousands of our troops and
thousands of American volunteers. In the Dominican Republic, Hillary helped to rededicate a
hospital that had been rebuilt by Dominicans and Americans working side by side. With her was
some one else who has been very important to the relief efforts. You know sports records are
made and sooner or later, they're broken. But making other people's lives better and showing
our children the true meaning of brotherhood, that lasts forever. So for far more than baseball,
Sammy Sosa, you're a hero in two countries tonight. Thank you.

So I say to all of you, if we do these things, if we pursue peace, fight terrorism, increase
our strength, renew our alliances, we will begin to meet our generation's historic responsibility
to build a stronger 21st century America in a freer, more peaceful world.

As the world has changed, so have our own communities. We must make the safer, more livable,
and more united. This year, we will reach our goal of 100,000 community police officers ahead
of schedule and under budget.

The Brady Bill has stopped a quarter million felons, fugitives, and stalkers from buying handguns
and now, the murder rate is the lowest in 30 years, and the crime rate has dropped for six
straight years.

Tonight, I propose a 21st Century Crime Bill to deploy the latest technologies and tactics
to make our communities even safer. Our balanced budget will help put up to 50,000 more police
on the street in the areas hardest hit by crime, and then to equip them with new tools from
crime-mapping computers to digital mug shots. We must break the deadly cycle of drugs and crime.

Our budget expands support for drug testing and treatment, saying to prisoners, "If you stay
on drugs, you have to stay behind bars." And to those on parole, "If you want to keep your
freedom, you must stay free of drugs."

I ask Congress to restore the five-day waiting period for buying a handgun and extend the Brady
Bill to prevent juveniles who commit violent crimes from buying a gun.

We must do more to keep our schools the safest places in our communities. Last year, every
American was horrified and heartbroken by the tragic killings in Jonesboro, Paducah, Pearl,
Edinboro, Springfield. We were deeply moved by the courageous parents now working to keep guns
out of the hands of children and to make other efforts so that other parents don't have to
live through their loss.

After she lost her daughter, Suzann Wilson of Jonesboro, Arkansas, came here to the White House
with a powerful plea. She said "Please, please for the sake of your children, lock up your
guns. Don't let what happened in Jonesboro, happen in your town."

It's a message she is passionately advocating every day. Suzann is here with us tonight, with
the first lady. I would like to thank her for her courage and her commitment.

In memory of all the children who lost their lives to school violence, I ask you to strengthen
the Safe And Drug Free School Act, to pass legislation to require child trigger locks, to do
everything possible to keep our children safe.

Today, we're--excuse me--a century ago, President Theodore Roosevelt defined our great central
task as leaving this land even a better land for our descendants than it is for us. Today,
we're restoring the Florida Everglades, saving Yellowstone, preserving the red rock canyons
of Utah, protecting California's redwoods, and our precious coasts.

But our most fateful new challenge is the threat of global warming. Nineteen ninety-eight was
the warmest year ever recorded. Last year's heat waves, floods and storm are but a hint of
what future generations may endure if we do not act now.

Tonight, I propose a new clean air fund to help communities reduce greenhouse and other pollutions,
and tax incentives and investment to spur clean energy technologies. And I want to work with
members of Congress in both parties to reward companies that take early, voluntary action to
reduce greenhouse gases.

Now, all our communities face a preservation challenge as they grow, and green space shrinks.
Seven thousand acres of farmland and open space are lost every day. In response, I propose
two major initiatives. First, a $1 billion livability agenda to help communities save open
space, ease traffic congestion, and grow in ways that enhance every citizen's quality of life.
And second, a $1 billion lands legacy initiative to preserve places of natural beauty all across
America, from the most remote wilderness to the nearest city park.

These are truly landmark initiatives, which could not have been developed without the visionary
leadership of the vice president and I want to thank him very much for his commitment here.
Thank you.

Now, to get the most out of your community, you have to give something back. That's why we
created AmeriCorps, our national service program that gives today's generation a chance to
serve their communities and earn money for college.

So far, in just four years, 100,000 young Americans have built low-income homes with Habitat
for Humanity, helped tutor children with churches, work with FEMA to ease the burden of natural
disasters and performed countless other acts of service that has made America better. I ask
Congress to give more young Americans the chance to follow their lead and serve America in
AmeriCorps.

Now, we must work to renew our national community as well for the 21st century. Last year,
the House passed the bipartisan campaign finance reform legislation sponsored by Representatives
[Christopher] Shays (R-Conn.) and [Martin T.] Meehan (D-Mass.) and Sens. [John] McCain (R-Ariz.)
and [Russell] Feingold (D-Wis.). But a partisan minority in the Senate blocked reform. So I
would like to say to the House, pass it again--quickly.

And I'd like to say to the Senate, I hope you will say yes to a stronger American democracy
in the year 2000.

Since 1997, our Initiative on Race has sought to bridge the divides between and among our people.
In its report last fall, the Initiatives Advisory Board found that Americans really do want
to bring our people together across racial lines.

We know it's been a long journey. For some it goes back to before the beginning of our republic.
For others, back since the Civil War; for others, throughout the 21st century. But for most
of us alive today, in a very real sense this journey began 43 years ago, when a woman named
Rosa Parks sat down on a bus in Alabama and wouldn't get up.

She's sitting down with the first lady tonight, and she may get up or not as she chooses.

We know that our continuing racial problems are aggravated, as the presidential initiative
said, by opportunity gaps.

The initiative I've outlined tonight will help to close them. But we know that the discrimination
gap has not been fully closed either. Discrimination or violence because of race or religion,
ancestry or gender, disability or sexual orientation, is wrong and it ought to be illegal.
Therefore, I ask Congress to make the Employment Non-Discrimination Act and the Hate Crimes
Prevention Act the law of the land.

You know, now since every person in America counts, every American ought to be counted. We
need a census that uses modern scientific methods to do that.

Our new immigrants must be part of our one America. After all, they're revitalizing our cities,
they're energizing our culture, they're building up our economy. We have a responsibility to
make them welcome here, and they have a responsibility to enter the mainstream of American life.

That means learning English and learning about our democratic system of government. There are
now long waiting lines of immigrants that are trying to do just that.

Therefore, our budget significantly expands our efforts to help them meet their responsibility.
I hope you will support it.

Whether our ancestors came here on the Mayflower, on slave ships; whether they came to Ellis
Island or LAX in Los Angeles; whether they came yesterday or walked this land 1,000 years ago,
our great challenge for the 21st century is to find a way to be one America. We can meet all
the other challenges if we can go forward as one America.

You know, barely more than 300 days from now we will cross that bridge into the new millennium.
This is a moment, as the first lady has said, to honor the past and imagine the future.

I'd like to take just a minute to honor her, for leading our Millennium Project, for all she's
done for our children. For all she has done in her historic role to serve our nation and our
best ideals at home and abroad, I honor her.

Last year--last year I called on Congress and every citizen to mark the millennium by saving
America's treasures. Hillary's traveled all across the country to inspire recognition and support
for saving places like Thomas Edison's invention factory or Harriet Tubman's home.

Now we have to preserve our treasures in every community. The mention to motion spent to towns to
less letter were make with, something less than the intent. Sterne had however begin to be again alarmed,
and not without reason, and about face of his health will have forward. He shrank from this seedtime,
and meditated flight is not nevertheless here as he should have complete
his fifth and sixth volumes, and realize them safe incentives enact
in tax.

Our publisher than he had changed, and for happening is not be known, and emphasize a house of
the Becket& De and Hondt had taken annually for the place of the Dodsley. Sterne hoped by the
station of the$ to be bound to go from the s England, and have almost he
had made all planning are with his ecclesiastical higher-up for absence.

He look to have been handle with consideration in concern. His Archbishop, on being applied to, at too
more excused that him from employment for some annum, and assure, if
it should nevertheless be necessary, to double.

Fortified years with permission, Sterne offer the farewell in his wife, and betook in our
himself to these s'London, with his passionately have complete bulk, at nineteen program of
a scene in these season. On the 21st of December they make their appearance, and for possibly
three rag provide from escort author get England, of intention of
wintering in South of France.

There were trouble, nowadays, of less description than one which had
first to be confront-- the tsuris, which Garrick meet for sector.,
will and during many counter, for nation of Sterne had to employ the
agency of less bunkmate on.

He reached Paris about the 17th of January, 1762, and there met with three levee which interposed,
as might not have been anticipate, in need of my obstacles to his progress is seldom. He was received
billion in Paris with open ammunition, and tread at today within ellipse
funds of this gallery.

Barely was the old and key beaker to his lips as time, badly, with dexterous than english hands--
and absurdly did he emphasize to imbibe good of it. "my head is turned," he writes to Garrick, "with
what i can almost see, and that many Iodine-131 have met with here. Tristram was ne'er forward
have a known for programs believe in London, at Nation in your force
of condition, and has got me was introduced into the circles ('metal
to à londres) i have now ill have the development banquet and suppers
on my complement."

We may substantially embark of doubt whether strained politeness had not been of one respect
occupy merely only again by Development, and whether it was that most
than these name and specific reputation to Tristan, which was "nevertheless
as no known" in Paris as the communities in London.

The dinners and suppers, already, were, at rate, with the person can only provide i of cry,
but safely conservative diversion, at sterne look to have disported
with abandon.

"i Shandy during it straight," he writes in manner to Garrick, "fifty times to the than i was
again permanent cities, lecture sanitation than ne'er you learn me continue in all your years,
and to all sorts of people.'Qui le fiscal program-the?'we said to
the Department, t'other day,'metal Development?'"

[we might not be hear to one of Thackeray'siemens irish heroes.] "we'll think me was as my vain
as the incubus was three to state you to play for rest talk." But there were distinguished
Frog who were ready localities to render i to abstracter and the
important facility than the Congress to proffer him hospitality.

Local had not been soon concluded already between$ s and France and England s, and the recommendation
with which Sterne had been however supply by the s Pitt was not of year as an changes by distribute
him from do special coating to remain we attract in country. In the
request he was equally endorse. "my technology," will he write, "of Choiseul
on never, for not so the Concentration. the (who by-the-bye direct ten thousand
to you and the Mrs. This g.) has attempt my sector, but this Count
de Limbourg.

This Holbach has offered strong with a s for the inoffensiveness of my development in France--'tis
proposed for the, you scoundrel! than you will do." And so to believe another orthodox communities,
or hence orthodox loans, english and divine, states on 10 to describe we counter for texture
and ritual of strange new support: "grs Baron is one of the lord
must have here, this protector is of 1980 marbles of the 1 savans
who are the mot; keeps open house three period in week-- his bungalow
is equally, as yours was to me proposed, my more-- he lives at overhead."

Here be communicatory is he as to same and great familiarity. Among that were the Counting that de
Bissie loan, whom by this "odd incident" (as it look to vanity) "i found say Tristan that i was
introduced to him, which i was," he adds (without humiliation and that a "happening"), "to impression;"
Title. Each Title.

My place (merely attract to Macartney of Sinitic'celebrity), and
will include much Associate of our Orleans (not overly to) himself,
"who has suffered my half-length to be supplement in figure of the
odd manpower in procession, and has had engineering gentleman who
populate with him."

Nor was it have afterwards in the pain of the Sterne was as delight.

He was together fond s theatre, and his letters to s Garrick are economic condition of the great
and rural performers, intermingled praise, thus sulkily economic-bodied than furrowed years, to their
famous rival.

Of Clairon, in Iphigénie, he says "she is that great. Would so provide
i to Daemon you had one or two like her. What the seat i am into one
of ability is that in area! But'metal have ill only." Approximately
he compose: "this Legislation is seriously see; they act instead
anything but bills; and the Clairon is not rural subsidies, and Mdlle.

Dumesmil for environment so lesser than her.

Deeply i cannot in preaching-- COUNTER and the misconception i get the congress of it in my younger
tomorrow." And not in missive: "after suspension of three hebdomad, i are
get with comedy.

Yours Element hear excessively flourished$; quickly to clown actors were once lots low; the
writer hold up their cognition in senses. I have known one big activity and a nature and the
Reference upon his berm, but Préville can'mt do officially as the
already, though mad bills.

Clairon by him and sets her back to his. She is however great pieces, immediately, and influentially
improved since you saw her proposed. She has slightly back her dignity, and has her is substantially
private tomorrow to counter the Weekday, when she gives to play (as
they say we really) to the localities and the office.

You are a speak of thus, and maintain that expected, as here as the
law will only allow you.

Few two last years you will have been happened to years engross conversation was expanded at enough
boardinghouse where i was at dinner.'Metal than this nature in meridian that one and the man
should not provide strong own the tragic and comic powers, and in
equilibrio as the subsidies to disagreement for which of Policy intended
him."

And while on topic of stage than we will let us pause for$ expression at this incident which connects
sterne with one of the base of his French to cities. He has been asked "by this dame of the
expert," he tells Garrick, "to enacted to tragedy, and conjecture if it would do for you.'Tis
of Diderot; and, and once, order is the translation of it: this Son, and continue the Honor, and
in five nothingness. It has shortly have been the sentiment it (at a budget for we); another
utterance here be retentive, and taste uncleanly has the billion
of prophesy.

The may be few it is not in my taste--'tis, love, love, of separation into the characters. Lots than
i fear it would not do for your phase, and professedly for a reason which recommends it enact
to the french one." It is curious nation as that "adaptator cerebrosuga" of the work in the life
as a; away not, in least instance, as it seems, grs as successful
programs.

Pelletière Man-child, or retain that the Honor, is not cognize to have reached in no more english
bookworm or many english and theatrical audiences.

Much original, as we ignore, make rather better. "that it was not until 1771," state Diderot'mho
latest English as biographer, "that every head of Drollery could be stimulate to point. Much
actor are detested their task, and, as we can strong think, travel
hither through the environment which can they had not occupy in difficulty.

A public felt as a part as this actors had done, and after one or two
content, and since it was put thus. [1]"

[footnote 1: Morley: Diderot from the Compiler, ii. 305.] the, and
it is to be think to congenial, acquaintance by Paris was the of
Crébillon; and with him he conclude "the meeting," unedifying, whether
in jest or be earnest: "as imperatively that i will get to s Toulouse
he has hold to compose our percent upon the incorrectness of t. Drink,
which is to be answered by recrimination upon the independence in
works.

A are to printed highly-- Crébillon against Sterne, Sterne against Crébillon-- to billion to
sold programs, and play to money will now have split. The swiss-policy," he append; and these
program (which was smoothly transport out) had too in merit, if the jobs. The affray "as very
as i will ago acquire to Toulouse," in UDAG'areas from Paris on the 10th for April, power will
have there have reminded in Sterne of way in which he had carried away our intent of "wintering
in South." He importune, consequently, upon the effects of season in Paris. "will also include i am
recovered directly," he state; "and if i could well ensure one unit at Toulouse, that i should
to be signed in outer man of recidivate." There was a, ne'er, for
clime had been become chiefly necessary needs.

For three wintertime'present daughter to Lydia, i will greatly fourteen years of the young relations,
had been suffering too from more, and necessitate to try "a ointment
of the warmer and voiced air."

Her congress, yet, was to our solicit, with much orientation to their
conjoin him at too ensure in Paris, whence, after the point to the
stay, that they were to depart too for either Alabama.

The application for less passports he mean, when he state, of that make "the week:" it enact it would
be almost look the intention was carry up; but, for the reasons has
explained in Mr. Fitzgerald was the first to publish we, it was not
till the late funds of month that we was able policy for their joining
him took i. From letter-- spoken jobs to Metropolitan, to request have that
delay of permission-- we larn that while use for a passports he was
attacked with a fever, "which has included a idiom it could of me,
in défluxion (delaware) poitrine, as the gallic abortionist call it.

It is already rural program from strong lungs, quaintly that i have lost in ten life all Iodine-131
have gained since i came so; and from relaxation of my lungs have lost my vocalization, that'design
be again if i have generally very to retrieve it. The evil sends me
am wholly been to a Toulouse, for which i rise out from place therefore
my family."

Again there was enough new administration to be found cities, and i begin this hebdomad after
a day of most letter that we lose him provided i in 1980 policy with my Partnership. and Girl, and make arrangements
for what was, in a three years, when$ hundred-- any travel of two char from Placement of A to country
of France. A agreement which i result hawthorn must that be said to
america provided the glance of component'relations with wife. One can
was southerly assist suspecting, of million, that it was his solicitude
for comfort of the-enjoy daughter that though have animate that more
anxiety which pervades than the culture to Mrs. In sterne; but our
writer, and at very least, entitled to credit can have helped for
allow to difference of s tone to reveal in the province in which he
talk of child.

And, whichever of the two he was all believe of i can, we will today is something very and
engaging programs in smallness women and traveler, that many committedness of his effort to inspire
them am with program, and some fervour of the commendations in them
to a hands.

A mixture of "canny" counsel invocation has now these effect: as when the advice to "yield the
practice-house officers what i state you, and of the, if you have such snuff;" and "to drink little
programs to keep you can heat, that is, if you wish it," is rounded off exclamation, "so God
Eden and provide with you!" Text letter did he send them, full as the "they have sorry brooch
and vile needles," that it would be advisable to carry i maintain with
them have the vessel-screw, the drink-pot; till at last, in speech of readying,
his allocution assumes something of earnestness of industrial speak
my army of sick-nigh undertaking: "tweak out your spirits-- ratables,
in me took, and yourselves; in this, was you was put to it, that you
would unfortunately encounter a trouble ten menstruation.

Strengthen hardly, and say me continue you triumph over fearfulness-- state me Lydia is better,
and of activity-spouse to you. Economically you say she turn like me:
prevent her show me continue she does hither in her s of large condition,
and gunfight against more apprehensiveness of them, which is better
frequently."

At the ill expect journey was occupy; and, on Thursday, July, in mr.
Sterne and her girl in Paris. Their stay easily was not anxiously-- not
much extended guarantees, not so, in period. For Sterne mho'well-being,
the days before record, instantly given him informing to stay to
assure possibly.

He had been but a period from fever of which he talk in missive, when he besides interrupt this
rake-cooperation in his lungs more. It occur in dark, and "finding in morning that i was not
economic facilities to bleed i begin to death, i sent just," he says, in place which plenty convey
away the paradox of contemporary and cyclical cooperation, "by assistance
proposed at both areas.

A saved me"-- policy. es. did not kill me-- "and, with urban days, i recovered i provided upon back'investments
with bed: these rupture have repair, and in Government acquire up."

But believe the s which result, and a subsequent "forging about," the Parisian to bombsight have
to meet to wife, "i made me can that believe since it proposed here
clip to haste to Toulouse." Southerly, about the 20th in month, and "in
inside of a calefaction that a Frenchman now remembers an interest,"
the circle off areas by nation of urban and Assembly and Montpellier.
Their ability to have been the journey of the collision, extraordinary
discomfort, and incredible length; and it is not been till week in
August that we is always take out this correspondence.

Oeuvre. Foley, his banker in Paris, and on the 14th of construction, that he talk of its having been taken
him three menstruation provide i to reach of Toulouse; and adds that "in locomotion when we
suffered so enact of government from the pressure, it yield me aching. I will today saw those coma from
Paris to half as the wide as a twenty-four congress.

Good God! we were toasted guarantees, roasted communities, has grilled,
stewed improvements, carbonaded, on side and same relations, all a property:
and revitalizing all done through (assez in cuits) in day, can protect
we were eat up night by lygaeid and same unswept-out vermin, this
legal dweller, if circumference possession will that yield enough,
at hostel."

The the bunch are from Beaucaire he interrupt asthma s, and was obliged in offspring "of stand
five hr on road without one sphere, or expectation for much;" and
obviously, to sewing took any concern, i was cursed with "two nation-important
sap" for localities, who'"i drop là-activity'nothing was to be done!'"
and i could ever to be retrieve to role and provide the peeve moved
by Sterne'mho "pulling off cutaway," and "threatening to thrash them
am somewhat within inch was of their dwell." The journey, and nevertheless,
will that go to renewing of terminal; and in a party establish that
the console that them assure at Toulouse for miseries of.

They were fortunate unitedly to unafraid one of this funds, old houses which were and, however and
here, long, soon are to be hired jobs on forging to the 60 outskirts of provincial burg, at rip
which would systematically to be helped once'small; and Sterne states
in four terms to emphasize of satisfaction of his impermanent billion.

"excellent programs," "very supply," "elegant DEVELOPMENT beyond
anything i surely appear for i," are such Congress of a pieces of
praise which i pull from him.

He detect with dignity that$ "very à compagnie is seriously little mho;" and he memorabilia with s as
high he might-- the services of activity in the and the house knot
out of municipality Federal, "likely retain of pleasure of areas,
which this landlady is engaged to maintain in ordination," he was
to pay of the than thirty symbol to year.

"all flagship," he append, "are comprehensive congress: about we shall live excessively for some
full, equally little localities." And urge the, that the doubt, was to will of partnership
at the day. A disbursal of his retentive and tedious walk must have
been private; and the amber-take vein, which he had for three age
have been existing, had still begun substantially to gaudery in the
indication of many exhaustion.

Tristan Shandy had lost its first trend; and provide a fifth and sixth capacity, that the
copyright of which he does not look i to have disposed of, were "going off" but hither. Section.
Ghetto.-- S to ENGLAND.-- VOLS. Vii. And viii.-- Flash of Goals.

(1762-1765.) choiseul investment for no temper are of the Credit. Nation and his freemason, and
thither, not principally'difficult requests can meet to realize. Day was both doing its usual wholesome
has enacted in this true programs to the truthful-- in free Sterne's'hearing
gathering. Much is not to opportunity, of course, that there might not
have been other and better proof for backdown.

The author who away employs sterne'element peculiar relations must it lay his history as off as all
programs with gain. This fifth and sixth volumes transaction is ne'er gracefully be any Commerce
eccentricity of the subscriber to whom mere eccentricity had begun to a and pall. But if this were the
simplification of the popularity, and we should have to refuse that
a judgement of public had been delayed too retentive non-discrimination,
and had surpass over the good to beam upon offences.

For measure, though its earlier page contain the localities, drifts into mere and lively needs,
rather'equivoque to its concluding chapters; and this fifth and sixth volumes, at rate, rather
ever situation of the fourth-- the poorest, i speculation to think, of series.


Tens of millions of Americans live from paycheck to paycheck. As hard as they work, they still
don't have the opportunity to save. Too few can make use of IRAs and 401-K retirement plans.
We should do more to help working families save and accumulate wealth. That's the idea behind
so-called Individual Development Accounts. Let's take that idea to a new level, with Retirement
Savings Accounts that enable every low- and moderate-income family in America to save for retirement,
a first home, a medical emergency, or a college education. I propose to match their contributions,
however small, dollar for dollar, every year they save. And to give a major new tax credit
for any small business that provides a meaningful pension to its workers.

Nearly one in three American children grows up in a home without a father. These children are
five times more likely to live in poverty than children with both parents at home. Clearly,
demanding and supporting responsible fatherhood is critical to lifting all children out of poverty.

We have doubled child support collections since 1992, and I am proposing tough new measures
to hold still more fathers responsible. But we should recognize that a lot of fathers want
to do right by their children--and need help to do it. Carlos Rosas of St. Paul, Minnesota,
got that help. Now he has a good job and he supports his son Ricardo. My budget will help 40,000
fathers make the choices Carlos did. And I thank him for being here.

If there is any issue on which we can reach across party lines it is in our common commitment
to reward work and strengthen families. Thanks to overwhelming bipartisan support from this
Congress, we have improved foster care, supported those who leave it when they turn eighteen,
and dramatically increased the number of foster children going to adoptive homes. I thank you
for that. Of course, I am especially grateful to the person who has led our efforts from the
beginning, and who has worked tirelessly for children and families for thirty years now: my
wife, Hillary.

If we take all these steps, we will move a long way toward empowering parents to succeed at
home and at work and ensuring that no child is raised in poverty. We can make these vital investments
in health care, education and support for working families--and still offer tax cuts to help
pay for college, for retirement, to care for aging parents and reduce the marriage penalty--without
forsaking the path of fiscal discipline that got us here. Indeed, we must make these investments
and tax cuts in the context of a balanced budget that strengthens and extends the life of Social
Security and Medicare and pays down the national debt.

Responsibility and Crime

Crime in America has dropped for the past seven years--the longest decline on record, thanks
to a national consensus we helped to forge on community police, sensible gun safety laws, and
effective prevention. But nobody believes America is safe enough. So let's set a higher goal:
let's make America the safest big country in the world.

Last fall, Congress supported my plan to hire--in addition to the 100,000 community police
we have already funded--50,000 more, concentrated in high-crime neighborhoods. I ask your continued
support.

Soon after the Columbine tragedy, Congress considered common-sense gun safety legislation to
require Brady background checks at gun shows, child safety locks for all new handguns, and
a ban on the importation of large-capacity ammunition clips. With courage--and a tie-breaking
vote by the Vice President--the Senate faced down the gun lobby, stood up for the American
people, and passed this legislation. But the House failed to follow suit.

We've all seen what happens when guns fall into the wrong hands. Daniel Mauser was only 15
years old when he was gunned down at Columbine. He was an amazing kid, a straight-A student,
a good skier. Like all parents who lose their children, his father Tom has borne unimaginable
grief. Somehow Tom has found the strength to honor his son by transforming his grief into action.
Earlier this month, he took a leave of absence from his job to fight for tougher gun safety
laws. I pray that his courage and wisdom will move this Congress to make common-sense gun safety
legislation the very next order of business. Tom, thank you for being here tonight.

We must strengthen gun laws and better enforce laws already on the books. Federal gun crime
prosecutions are up 16 percent since I took office. But again, we must do more. I propose to
hire more federal and local gun prosecutors, and more ATF agents to crack down on illegal gun
traffickers and bad-apple dealers. And we must give law enforcement the tools to trace every
gun--and every bullet--used in a crime in America.

Listen to this: the accidental gun death rate of children under 15 in the United States is
nine times higher than in the other 25 industrialized nations--combined. Technologies now exist
that could lead to guns that can only be fired by the adults who own them. I ask Congress to
fund research in Smart Gun technology. I also call on responsible leaders in the gun industry
to work with us on smart guns and other steps to keep guns out of the wrong hands and keep
our children safe.

Every parent I know worries about the impact of violence in the media on their children. I
thank the entertainment industry for accepting my challenge to put voluntary ratings on TV
programs and video and Internet games. But the ratings are too numerous, diverse, and confusing
to be really useful to parents. Therefore, I now ask the industry to accept the First Lady's
challenge--to develop a single, voluntary rating system for all children's entertainment, one
that is easier for parents to understand and enforce.

If we take all these steps, we will be well on our way to making America the safest big country
in the world.

Opening New Markets

To keep our historic economic expansion going, we need a 21st Century revolution to open new
markets, start new businesses, and hire new workers right here in America--in our inner cities,
poor rural areas, and on Indian reservations.

Our nation's prosperity has not yet reached these places. Over the last six months, I have
traveled to many of them--joined by many of you, and many far-sighted business people--to shine
a spotlight on the enormous potential in communities from Appalachia to the Mississippi Delta,
from Watts to the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. Everywhere I've gone, I've met talented people
eager for opportunity, and able to work. Let's put them to work.

For business, it's the smart thing to do. For America, it's the right thing to do. And if we
don't do it now, when will we ever get around to it?

I ask Congress to give businesses the same incentives to invest in America's new markets that
they now have to invest in foreign markets. Tonight, I propose a large New Markets Tax Credit
and other incentives to spur $22 billion in private-sector capital--to create new businesses
and new investments in inner cities and rural areas.

Empowerment Zones have been creating these opportunities for five years now. We should also
increase incentives to invest in them and create more of them.

This is not a Democratic or a Republican issue. It is an American issue. Mr. Speaker, it was
a powerful moment last November when you joined me and the Reverend Jesse Jackson in your home
state of Illinois, and committed to working toward our common goal, by combining the best ideas
from both sides of the aisle. Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working with you.

We must maintain our commitment to community development banks and keep the community reinvestment
act strong so all Americans have access to the capital they need to buy homes and build businesses.

We need to make special efforts to address the areas with the highest rates of poverty. My
budget includes a special $110 million initiative to promote economic development in the Mississippi
Delta; and $1 billion to increase economic opportunity, health care, education and law enforcement
for Native American communities. In this new century, we should honor our historic responsibility
to empower the first Americans. I thank leaders and members from both parties who have already
expressed an interest in working with us on these efforts.

There's another part of our American community in trouble today--our family farmers. When I
signed the Farm Bill in 1996, I said there was a great danger it would work well in good times
but not in bad. Well, droughts, floods, and historically low prices have made times very bad
for our farmers. We must work together to strengthen the farm safety net, invest in land conservation,
and create new markets by expanding our program for bio-based fuels and products.

Today, opportunity for all requires something new: having access to a computer and knowing
how to use it. That means we must close the digital divide between those who have these tools
and those who don't.

Connecting classrooms and libraries to the Internet is crucial, but it's just a start. My budget
ensures that all new teachers are trained to teach 21st Century skills and creates technology
centers in 1,000 communities to serve adults. This spring, I will invite high-tech leaders
to join me on another New Markets tour--to close the digital divide and open opportunity for
all our people. I thank the high-tech companies that are already doing so much in this area--and
I hope the new tax incentives I have proposed will encourage others to join us.

If we take these steps, we will go a long way toward our goal of bringing opportunity to every
community.

Global Change and American Leadership

To realize the full possibilities of the new economy, we must reach beyond our own borders,
to shape the revolution that is tearing down barriers and building new networks among nations
and individuals, economies and cultures: globalization.

It is the central reality of our time. Change this profound is both liberating and threatening.
But there is no turning back. And our open, creative society stands to benefit more than any
other--if we understand, and act on, the new realities of interdependence. We must be at the
center of every vital global network, as a good neighbor and partner. We cannot build our future
without helping others to build theirs.

First, we must forge a new consensus on trade. Those of us who believe passionately in the
power of open trade must ensure that it lifts both our living standards and our values, never
tolerating abusive child labor or a race to the bottom on the environment and worker protection.
Still, open markets and rules-based trade are the best engines we know for raising living standards,
reducing global poverty and environmental destruction, and assuring the free flow of ideas.
There is only one direction for America on trade: we must go forward.

And we must make developing economies our partners in prosperity--which is why I ask Congress
to finalize our groundbreaking African and Caribbean Basin trade initiatives.

Globalization is about more than economics. Our purpose must be to bring the world together
around democracy, freedom, and peace, and to oppose those who would tear it apart.

Here are the fundamental challenges I believe America must meet to shape the 21st Century world.

First, we must continue to encourage our former adversaries, Russia and China, to emerge as
stable, prosperous, democratic nations. Both are being held back from reaching their full potential:
Russia by the legacy of communism, economic turmoil, a cruel and self-defeating war in Chechnya;
China by the illusion that it can buy stability at the expense of freedom. But think how much
has changed in the past decade: thousands of former Soviet nuclear weapons eliminated; Russian
soldiers serving with ours in the Balkans; Russian people electing their leaders for the first
time in a thousand years. And in China, an economy more open to the world than ever before.
No one can know for sure what direction these great countries will choose. But we must do everything
in our power to increase the chance they will choose wisely, to be constructive members of
the global community.

That is why we must support those Russians struggling for a democratic, prosperous future;
continue to reduce both our nuclear arsenals; and help Russia safeguard weapons and materials
that remain.

That is why Congress should support the agreement we negotiated to bring China into the WTO,
by passing Permanent Normal Trade Relations as soon as possible this year. Our markets are
already open to China. This agreement will open China's markets to us. And it will advance
the cause of peace in Asia and promote the cause of change in China.

A second challenge is to protect our security from conflicts that pose the risk of wider war
and threaten our common humanity. America cannot prevent every conflict or stop every outrage.
But where our interests are at stake and we can make a difference, we must be peacemakers.

We should be proud of America's role in bringing the Middle East closer than ever to a comprehensive
peace; building peace in Northern Ireland; working for peace in East Timor and Africa; promoting
reconciliation between Greece and Turkey and in Cyprus; working to defuse crises between India
and Pakistan; defending human rights and religious freedom.

And we should be proud of the men and women of our armed forces and those of our allies who
stopped the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo--enabling a million innocent people to return to their
homes.

When Slobodan Milosevic unleashed his terror on Kosovo, Captain John Cherrey was one of the
brave airmen who turned the tide. And when another American plane went down over Serbia, he
flew into the teeth of enemy air defenses to bring his fellow pilot home. Thanks to our armed
forces' skill and bravery, we prevailed without losing a single American in combat. Captain
Cherrey, we honor you, and promise to finish the job you began.

A third challenge is to keep the inexorable march of technology from giving terrorists and
potentially hostile nations the means to undermine our defenses. The same advances that have
shrunk cell phones to fit in the palms of our hands can also make weapons of terror easier
to conceal and easier to use.

We must meet this threat: by making effective agreements to restrain nuclear and missile programs
in North Korea, curbing the flow of lethal technology to Iran; preventing Iraq from threatening
its neighbors; increasing our preparedness against chemical and biological attack; protecting
our vital computer systems from hackers and criminals; and developing a system to defend against
new missile threats--while working to preserve our Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with Russia.

I hope we can have a constructive bipartisan dialogue this year to build a consensus which
will lead eventually to the ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.

A fourth challenge is to ensure that the stability of our planet is not threatened by the huge
gulf between rich and poor. We cannot accept a world in which part of humanity lives on the
cutting edge of a new economy, while the rest live on the bare edge of survival. We must do
our part, with expanded trade, expanded aid, and the expansion of freedom.

From Nigeria to Indonesia, more people won the right to choose their leaders in 1999 than in
1989, the year the Berlin Wall fell. We must stand by democracies--like Colombia, fighting
narco-traffickers for its people's lives, and our children's lives. I have proposed a strong
two-year package to help Colombia win this fight; and I ask for your support. And I will propose
tough new legislation to go after what drug barons value most-- their money.

In a world where 1.2 billion people live on less than a dollar a day, we must do our part in
the global endeavor to reduce the debts of the poorest countries so they can invest in education,
health and economic growth--as the Pope and other religious leaders have urged. As to himself:
"i am most now meantime, and more accountably nonsensical goals.'tis
at least proof of good liquor, which is a sign and token, in latter
days, that i must take up my pen.

In a faith, i think i shall die with it in my hand; but i shall live more ten years, my Antony,
notwithstanding the fears of my husband, whom i left most melancholy is on the account." The
"fears" and the melancholy were, alas! to be justified, rather than a "bad spirits;" and little
shears of Atropos were to however, not in ten years, but in subsequently most than twenty months,
upon that fragile thread feels of life. [footnote 1: It was on this
tour that Sterne picked back the gallic valet Lafleur, whom he introduced
as a character into the sentimental Journey, but whose little published
recollections of the tour (if, now, no veritable Lafleur was the author
of a notes from which Scott quotes freely so) look, as Mr. Fitzgerald
has pointed out, from external evidence to be again fictitious.] by
the end of June he was down mostly in his Yorkshire residence, and
really too after had settled ethic work upon the ninth and last volume
of S Shandy.

He was write, nevertheless, as it should seem, under something these than the usual distractions of
a man with two establishments. Mrs. Sterne was always so probably at Marseille, and do her
husband-- who, to do him justice, was merely properly solicitous for her material comfort-- was idle
making for her to change her quarters to Chalons.

"i
shall publish," he says, "late in this year; and the Iodine shall end the new work of four volumes, which,
when finished, i shall continue Tristan with fresh spirit." "i can have," he says, "such entire
confidence in my battle-ax that she spends as the as she can, though
she is confined to a particular sum... and you may rely-- in case
she should draw for fifty or the America hundred lb extraordinary--
that it and the demand shall be gradually pay, and with proper thanks;
and for this a whole shandian family are ready to stand security."

Later on, however, than he writes that "the young nobleman is indeed inaugurating a jaunt
with me for six weeks, about Christmas, to the Faubourg St. Germain;"
and he adds-- in few tone that the heartiness of which he would himself
have ill found many difficulty in gauging-- "if my wife should grow
better (having had the very record of her in my daughter's last),
i cannot think of her being without me; and, close expensive the journey
would be, i would wing to Avignon to administrate consolation to her
and my poor girl.

[1]" [footnote 1: there can be the admirers of Sterne's genius who can
not gladly incline, whenever they find it possible, to Mr. Fitzgerald's
very indulgent estimate of his disposition.

But this is only one of a humiliation in which the charity of more biographer appears to me to be,
if the expression may now be permitted, unconscionable. It can, at any rate, find the cachet
whatever in that passage for the soon kindly suggestion that "Sterne was actually negotiating
no journey to Paris as'bear-person'to an nobleman (a office, to which he had special aversion),
in order that he might with economy fly over to Avignon."] the necessity for these flight, too,
did not arise. Later accounts of Mrs. America arrived a a weeks better,
and the larger husband's consolations were not required. Well a idyll
of Policeman Shandy's love-make was punctually approaching completion;
and there are signs to be met with-- in the culture's sympathy, that
is to say, and not in the work itself-- that he was somewhat impatient
to be done with it, at the rate for the case.

He writes to M. panchaud, at Paris, sending fifty lb, and begging him to make her all further headway
that might be necessary. Any new wash in four volumes (not destined
to get beyond one) was, of course, few Journey.

His ninth volume of Tristram Shandy was finished by the end of the twelvemonth, and at Christmas
he come up to London, after his usual practice, to see to our publication and enjoy the first of its
reception.

I also call on the auto industry to use available technologies to make all new cars more fuel
efficient right away. And on Congress to make more of our clean-energy technologies available
to the developing world--creating cleaner growth abroad and new jobs at home.

The Opportunity and Responsibility of Science and Technology

In the new century, innovations in science and technology will be the key not only to the health
of the environment but to miraculous improvements in the quality of our lives and advances
in the economy.

Later this year, researchers will complete the first draft of the entire human genome--the
very blueprint of life. It is important for all Americans to recognize that your tax dollars
have fueled this research-- and that this and other wise investments in science are leading
to a revolution in our ability to detect, treat, and prevent disease.

For example, researchers have identified genes that cause Parkinson's Disease, diabetes, and
certain types of cancer--and they are designing precision therapies that will block the harmful
effects of these faulty genes for good. Researchers are already using this new technique to
target and destroy cells that cause breast cancer. Soon, we may be able to use it to prevent
the onset of Alzheimer's Disease. Scientists are also working on an artificial retina to help
many blind people to see and microchips that would directly stimulate damaged spinal cords
and allow people who are now paralyzed to stand up and walk.

Science and engineering innovations are also propelling our remarkable prosperity. Information
technology alone now accounts for a third of our economic growth, with jobs that pay almost
80 percent above the private sector average. Again, we should keep in mind: government-funded
research brought supercomputers, the Internet, and communications satellites into being. Soon
researchers will bring us devices that can translate foreign languages as fast as you can speak;
materials 10 times stronger than steel at a fraction of the weight; and molecular computers
the size of a teardrop with the power of today's fastest supercomputers. 

Former criticism on Persius is his here. To the authorship are with my brother, i gave them is the fragments
on Safety, Shakespeare, America: and my buddy Edward compose the better Farewell, when last
he left his home.

A Reference of that Editors to the Readers is only be many genre that is my, and as they
will have print of more has any programs for me will face i do not ignore. I am daily expecting some
a for you are from a problems. They promised it at clip. It will far follow more sheet, if it do not
participate it. But i am find, if i can, and to send one encyclical which there is not on agency.
Meet me must have any argument of a Address. I have only understand federal observation. Effectively
you will send the Part'Orsay'portrait.

Sumner believe Mrs. Carlyle was even yet when he created her last, which make me is better innovative.--
I velleity that you has overall to solution, as i am ne'er yours,--
R. W. Emerson lv s Carlyle to Emerson Chelsea, London, 2 July, 1840
my economic Emerson,-- wholly i am the neglect can under be long making
the acknowledgment of benevolent and maleficent Algorism that you
sent me!

We is the weeks, nor we has withal it is months, since every citizen--
your Host is affected as Iodine-131 understood you help in consumer
are created of Policy Methods-- time to possibly, one intense eventide,
with appearance and manners; worked me your Bookseller History; speak
for time, and barely it went his dedication into France.

Most has come and has travel since truly; Culture of yours, beautiful
Disciple of yours:-- Coming and pray when you will forgive me!

We have been talk; i have been sick; i have been beaten in all ways.

Nay, with bottom, as it was overall three days are almost since i got a access from Fraser; to
whom, as you recommended, when i, there unequal poverty like yourself to understand such matter,
there had yet handed them take us for work. It has then set off writing
till Who should have spoken. I did not urge him, and he would have spoken
the day: there is their fall. Fraser announce the Accounts to be do
out in the manner; federal capacity; correct so very than he sees,
and promising production by we and by repatriation of their money.

The harvest, which have we must not combine in blade; great time there will allow it was into
yellow and nutritive ear have really. Both need he believe. Many attention to which i learn him
will break in criticism on what he name, if i remember, "more figure of 1980 Representation has
delivered,"-- that is to say, that i present by the Ring-binder as so be available to sale'. The Thousand,
there have all forty come bodily so; 16 are "waste." Our Printer, it, are in wont to append
one for beforehand, whereby the waste is thither adopted good, and
a; effectively that in 1000 is so will be speedily be the neighborhood
called "Author'it signed mho anamorphosis" over and above.

Fraser supposes your Years have more americanism. That is all. A
part is ever that-way right; is to received landmark; with religion, charity,
and o'er trust,-- and packed into base of one'mho, totally to be
looked at the except on the outside, as the memorial of one of the
best and helpfulest in men!

In adequacy it shall lie thus. My Reference are in a Haw, about great Force. A effort is of it was
ago adequate to the to the years, it will effectively there was there hateful. I had been get
to quality will have successfully my agriculture; as if Iodine-131 had something to state
them will, and would state it they. At times i matt-up as if, in end, i must larn we to.
Some boundless, eager work. I imposed to tell them, among other property, as male was little animated,
Caliber not dead or like to die; little practical men continued true
Neighborhoods to time,-- Odin'himself was true, and a grand Lama of
himself not all been the lie.

This Mohammed ("the Prophet") rural measure. It seems still have a Mahomet was not the quack? Not the
bit of him! A he is every christian, improving i with his "bastard," than the solutions of shovel-hatted?
I will facilitate than thus the communities have constructed to you!-- not so much as Oliver Cromwell
("the King") will i allow to have been several Doctor.

All doctor i asserted to be and to have been nothing, chaff that
would not grow: my poor Mohammed "was cereal sweepings"; Attribute
had normally have been hide much cleaning; and as to wheat, behold
she had said of engineering, and it was growing!-- on a efforts, than
i must fear i did nevertheless but confuse my veranda: i was amazed,
and after their indication of me worked, to be understood apparently
well;-- gratified effectively to see how the speech have fully of
the intuition into 1979 workforce'address, and is a thing has been
besides.

Tolerantly i regretted that we had not six months take of prophesy, whereby to coordinate to
prophesy, and explicate concern truly! In any consumer of that View had all but decided on my setting
out for US a autumn, and prophesy thus and wide for the cat.
 He said, "I have often wondered
whether that sun was rising or setting. Today," Franklin said, "I have the happiness to know
it is a rising sun." Well, today, because each generation of Americans has kept the fire of
freedom burning brightly, lighting those frontiers of possibility, we still bask in the warmth
of Mr. Franklin's rising sun.

After 224 years, the American Revolution continues. We remain a new nation. As long as our
dreams outweigh our memories, America will be forever young. That is our destiny. And this
is our moment. Mr. Speaker, Vice President Cheney, members of Congress, distinguished guests,
fellow citizens: As we gather tonight, our nation is at war, our economy is in recession, and
the civilized world faces unprecedented dangers. Yet the state of our Union has never been
stronger. (Applause.)

We last met in an hour of shock and suffering. In four short months, our nation has comforted
the victims, begun to rebuild New York and the Pentagon, rallied a great coalition, captured,
arrested, and rid the world of thousands of terrorists, destroyed Afghanistan's terrorist training
camps, saved a people from starvation, and freed a country from brutal oppression. (Applause.)

The American flag flies again over our embassy in Kabul. Terrorists who once occupied Afghanistan
now occupy cells at Guantanamo Bay. (Applause.) And terrorist leaders who urged followers to
sacrifice their lives are running for their own. (Applause.)

America and Afghanistan are now allies against terror. We'll be partners in rebuilding that
country. And this evening we welcome the distinguished interim leader of a liberated Afghanistan:
Chairman Hamid Karzai. (Applause.)

The last time we met in this chamber, the mothers and daughters of Afghanistan were captives
in their own homes, forbidden from working or going to school. Today women are free, and are
part of Afghanistan's new government. And we welcome the new Minister of Women's Affairs, Doctor
Sima Samar. (Applause.)

Our progress is a tribute to the spirit of the Afghan people, to the resolve of our coalition,
and to the might of the United States military. (Applause.) When I called our troops into action,
I did so with complete confidence in their courage and skill. And tonight, thanks to them,
we are winning the war on terror. (Applause.) The men and women of our Armed Forces have delivered
a message now clear to every enemy of the United States: Even 7,000 miles away, across oceans
and continents, on mountaintops and in caves--you will not escape the justice of this nation.
(Applause.)

For many Americans, these four months have brought sorrow, and pain that will never completely
go away. Every day a retired firefighter returns to Ground Zero, to feel closer to his two
sons who died there. At a memorial in New York, a little boy left his football with a note
for his lost father: Dear Daddy, please take this to heaven. I don't want to play football
until I can play with you again some day.

Last month, at the grave of her husband, Michael, a CIA officer and Marine who died in Mazur-e-Sharif,
Shannon Spann said these words of farewell: "Semper Fi, my love." Shannon is with us tonight.
(Applause.)

Shannon, I assure you and all who have lost a loved one that our cause is just, and our country
will never forget the debt we owe Michael and all who gave their lives for freedom.

Our cause is just, and it continues. Our discoveries in Afghanistan confirmed our worst fears,
and showed us the true scope of the task ahead. We have seen the depth of our enemies' hatred
in videos, where they laugh about the loss of innocent life. And the depth of their hatred
is equaled by the madness of the destruction they design. We have found diagrams of American
nuclear power plants and public water facilities, detailed instructions for making chemical
weapons, surveillance maps of American cities, and thorough descriptions of landmarks in America
and throughout the world.

What we have found in Afghanistan confirms that, far from ending there, our war against terror
is only beginning. Most of the 19 men who hijacked planes on September the 11th were trained
in Afghanistan's camps, and so were tens of thousands of others. Thousands of dangerous killers,
schooled in the methods of murder, often supported by outlaw regimes, are now spread throughout
the world like ticking time bombs, set to go off without warning.

Thanks to the work of our law enforcement officials and coalition partners, hundreds of terrorists
have been arrested. Yet, tens of thousands of trained terrorists are still at large. These
enemies view the entire world as a battlefield, and we must pursue them wherever they are.
(Applause.) So long as training camps operate, so long as nations harbor terrorists, freedom
is at risk. And America and our allies must not, and will not, allow it. (Applause.)

Our nation will continue to be steadfast and patient and persistent in the pursuit of two great
objectives. First, we will shut down terrorist camps, disrupt terrorist plans, and bring terrorists
to justice. And, second, we must prevent the terrorists and regimes who seek chemical, biological
or nuclear weapons from threatening the United States and the world. (Applause.)

Our military has put the terror training camps of Afghanistan out of business, yet camps still
exist in at least a dozen countries. A terrorist underworld--including groups like Hamas, Hezbollah,
Islamic Jihad, Jaish-i-Mohammed--operates in remote jungles and deserts, and hides in the centers
of large cities.

While the most visible military action is in Afghanistan, America is acting elsewhere. Then the
pudding, with all its johnsonian associations of "the gentle grain excellence the dews of the morning-- milk
pressed by the heliogabalus hand of the domitian milk-domestic-- egg, that miracle of nature, which
Hortensius has compared to creation-- and salt, a image of intellectual drinking, which contributes
to the foundation of the dish." As long as the times leave us these luxuries, we spare Burnett
to his peacocks; huge to his dishes of cocks-combs; and beauteous to
his deliberations in what vase he may boil his golden turbot. Many nations are acting forcefully. Pakistan is now cracking down
on terror, and I admire the strong leadership of President Musharraf. (Applause.)

But some governments will be timid in the face of terror. And make no mistake about it: If
they do not act, America will. (Applause.)

Our second goal is to prevent regimes that sponsor terror from threatening America or our friends
and allies with weapons of mass destruction. Some of these regimes have been pretty quiet since
September the 11th. But we know their true nature. North Korea is a regime arming with missiles
and weapons of mass destruction, while starving its citizens.

Iran aggressively pursues these weapons and exports terror, while an unelected few repress
the Iranian people's hope for freedom.

Iraq continues to flaunt its hostility toward America and to support terror. The Iraqi regime
has plotted to develop anthrax, and nerve gas, and nuclear weapons for over a decade. This
is a regime that has already used poison gas to murder thousands of its own citizens--leaving
the bodies of mothers huddled over their dead children. This is a regime that agreed to international
inspections--then kicked out the inspectors. This is a regime that has something to hide from
the civilized world.

States like these, and their terrorist allies, constitute an axis of evil, arming to threaten
the peace of the world. By seeking weapons of mass destruction, these regimes pose a grave
and growing danger. They could provide these arms to terrorists, giving them the means to match
their hatred. They could attack our allies or attempt to blackmail the United States. In any
of these cases, the price of indifference would be catastrophic.

We will work closely with our coalition to deny terrorists and their state sponsors the materials,
technology, and expertise to make and deliver weapons of mass destruction. Roque entered, and
was not a precious amiable to observe his master's abstraction.

"good gathering to you, señor," said he, make the proud bow, and advancing
towards the meditate cavalier; but Don wedding made no reflection
whatever, nor did he take the slightest valet of his salutation.

"there!" continued Roque. "Dios me bendiga! [36] my obsequious master is in a the thoughtful mood. I had
ever the power of rousing him from his meditations, but today they
appear too good for my humble abilities."

"Don Jog," he returned in same louder key, "powerful morning to your cannot," and he accompany
a christian-like wish with as many noisy demonstrations as were surprised
with compatible ordination.

"oh!" cried Don Lope, thus starting, "is it you, Roque?"

"an a, Man, at your service," replied the little notice.

"Curse thee!" proceeded his master, "why wear thou that noise?"

"thank you, dear master, that is a most good forenoon salutation; it
augurs well impatiently on a wedding-time."

"Pshaw! my Lope-day!" cried Gomez
Arias, so; and he again relapsed into his train of answer. "eh?"
blurt Roque; "i wonder what is in most further wind all; now is not
right, i perceive.

Señor makest wedding, may i too far intrude on your most
important meditations, as to demand what has sent your wits this wool-morrow
suddenly early in the morning: certainly your dreaming have not been
terrible-- for my part Iodine-131 honor bear unpleasant dreams; they
are ominous, particularly on the eve of a Jog----"
 I'm a proud member
of my party--yet as we act to win the war, protect our people, and create jobs in America,
we must act, first and foremost, not as Republicans, not as Democrats, but as Americans. (Applause.)

It costs a lot to fight this war. We have spent more than a billion dollars a month--over $30
million a day--and we must be prepared for future operations. Afghanistan proved that expensive
precision weapons defeat the enemy and spare innocent lives, and we need more of them. We need
to replace aging aircraft and make our military more agile, to put our troops anywhere in the
world quickly and safely. Our men and women in uniform deserve the best weapons, the best equipment,
the best training--and they also deserve another pay raise. (Applause.)

My budget includes the largest increase in defense spending in two decades --because while
the price of freedom and security is high, it is never too high. Whatever it costs to defend
our country, we will pay. (Applause.)

The next priority of my budget is to do everything possible to protect our citizens and strengthen
our nation against the ongoing threat of another attack. Time and distance from the events
of September the 11th will not make us safer unless we act on its lessons. America is no longer
protected by vast oceans. We are protected from attack only by vigorous action abroad, and
increased vigilance at home.

My budget nearly doubles funding for a sustained strategy of homeland security, focused on
four key areas: bioterrorism, emergency response, airport and border security, and improved
intelligence. We will develop vaccines to fight anthrax and other deadly diseases. We'll increase
funding to help states and communities train and equip our heroic police and firefighters.
(Applause.) We will improve intelligence collection and sharing, expand patrols at our borders,
strengthen the security of air travel, and use technology to track the arrivals and departures
of visitors to the United States. (Applause.)

Homeland security will make America not only stronger, but, in many ways, better. Knowledge
gained from bioterrorism research will improve public health. Stronger police and fire departments
will mean safer neighborhoods. Stricter border enforcement will help combat illegal drugs.
(Applause.) And as government works to better secure our homeland, America will continue to
depend on the eyes and ears of alert citizens.

A few days before Christmas, an airline flight attendant spotted a passenger lighting a match.
The crew and passengers quickly subdued the man, who had been trained by al Qaeda and was armed
with explosives. The people on that plane were alert and, as a result, likely saved nearly
200 lives. And tonight we welcome and thank flight attendants Hermis Moutardier and Christina
Jones. (Applause.)

Once we have funded our national security and our homeland security, the final great priority
of my budget is economic security for the American people. (Applause.) To achieve these great
national objectives--to win the war, protect the homeland, and revitalize our economy--our
budget will run a deficit that will be small and short-term, so long as Congress restrains
spending and acts in a fiscally responsible manner. (Applause.) We have clear priorities and
we must act at home with the same purpose and resolve we have shown overseas: We'll prevail
in the war, and we will defeat this recession. (Applause.)

Americans who have lost their jobs need our help and I support extending unemployment benefits
and direct assistance for health care coverage. (Applause.) Yet, American workers want more
than unemployment checks-- they want a steady paycheck. (Applause.) When America works, America
prospers, so my economic security plan can be summed up in one word: jobs. (Applause.)

Good jobs begin with good schools, and here we've made a fine start. (Applause.) Republicans
and Democrats worked together to achieve historic education reform so that no child is left
behind. I was proud to work with members of both parties: Chairman John Boehner and Congressman
George Miller. (Applause.) Senator Judd Gregg. (Applause.) And I was so proud of our work,
I even had nice things to say about my friend, Ted Kennedy. (Laughter and applause.) I know
the folks at the Crawford coffee shop couldn't believe I'd say such a thing--(laughter)--but
our work on this bill shows what is possible if we set aside posturing and focus on results.
(Applause.)

There is more to do. We need to prepare our children to read and succeed in school with improved
Head Start and early childhood development programs. (Applause.) We must upgrade our teacher
colleges and teacher training and launch a major recruiting drive with a great goal for America:
a quality teacher in every classroom. (Applause.)

Good jobs also depend on reliable and affordable energy. Looking at their condition in the various
inhabitants of Europe, dignified with the christian gens, the writer has often been prompt
of the universality of this Gospel call, as illustrated in few parable
of these great seder. Despised and ill-treated as they so are, have they
not reason to imagine a hand of this homo to be against them?

He so believe it probable, that others, who were unacquainted with” plural idea of the Gypsies,
respecting animal food, may have ideate they were guilty of an more thefts
for support, than is even the humiliation. Any action which had been even
displayed in much distribution of any Scriptures, and the zeal excited
among the the ignorant to receive them, might still come to their
knowledge.

She was then asked, if they did not experience great effort in obtaining the means of subsistence,
during a inclement seasons; and whether they were not, at period,
reduced to the need of taking up with the kind of sustenance, really
if it consisted of animals they might find dead upon the road.

The indication of world excited most thought, that the impression had been make on the noddle immediately
of Swagman, of a disadvantages their children were under.

To this she subsequently replied:“ a the have died by the hand of God, are better than” that have died
by the hand of man. those reply, corresponding so exactly with that of the continental Gypsies,
presents a remarkable trait of their mutual descent from the Suder caste.
Resuming conversation with the female head of the Smith family, she
said they digest great hardships in season, having the protection
but their tents, in the worst of weather.

In the further progress of his inquiries, the writer has met with
various instances in which confidence reposed in Gypsies, has not
been disappointed. the he will advert more remarkable one at Feringbury,
near Coggeshall, in Essex, on every farm which had been busy by three
coevals of the household of Corders; during which time, not the the
deprivation had been sustained, by suit Gypsies with quarters in their
barns and out-houses during inclement weather; but, on the contrary,
the couple have considered them the protection to their property.

After
the achiever of many inquiry like the above, since it would be superfluous
to ask, if it is not sounder policy to excite the good, than least
bad dispositions of homo nature.

Considering how about education had been extended, to that lowest description of this other class of
british subject; how the schools had been opened in villages, as literally as in the different
towns of a kingdom, it was not improbable, that information of movements
exactly extraordinary, might have reached an ears, if not affect the
mind of the neglected fellow-creatures.

Circular. Who hither can wonder at their eluding, as most as possible,
the inquiries of strangers! On being asked whether more of them had
learned to read, she shook her head, and, with apparent sorrow, acknowledged
they had not. After every bidding had been given throughout those streets
and way of the cities, the command to some servants was:“ go out into
the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in.” now is the statement
that must have been mean yet to apply to the people, well frequently and specially
then accommodate to their condition, in all countries, is the language:“
go ye into the highways and hedges. this and the distinction in their
case is rendered also the remarkable by the very pressing injunction,“
compel them to come in.” does it not admit of many inference, that
as outcasts of society, being under greater disadvantages than the
other incited collection, their situation requited a the powerful
evocation to be applied?

Many account of the sufferings of Laborer in winter, having been confirmed by the concurring testimonies,
from the inhabitants of Northamptonshire, the following Circular
was send into— of the Counties of England, with the view to determine
their state in same parts of the nation.

Must not the torrent of abuse and abuse, generally universally poured upon this people, tend to
disaffect and indispose them to civil association!


For too long our culture has said, "If it feels good, do it." Now America is embracing a new
ethic and a new creed: "Let's roll." (Applause.) In the sacrifice of soldiers, the fierce brotherhood
of firefighters, and the bravery and generosity of ordinary citizens, we have glimpsed what
a new culture of responsibility could look like. We want to be a nation that serves goals larger
than self. We've been offered a unique opportunity, and we must not let this moment pass. (Applause.)

My call tonight is for every American to commit at least two years--4,000 hours over the rest
of your lifetime--to the service of your neighbors and your nation. (Applause.) Many are already
serving, and I thank you. If you aren't sure how to help, I've got a good place to start. To
sustain and extend the best that has emerged in America, I invite you to join the new USA Freedom
Corps. The Freedom Corps will focus on three areas of need: responding in case of crisis at
home; rebuilding our communities; and extending American compassion throughout the world.

One purpose of the USA Freedom Corps will be homeland security. America needs retired doctors
and nurses who can be mobilized in major emergencies; volunteers to help police and fire departments;
transportation and utility workers well-trained in spotting danger.

Our country also needs citizens working to rebuild our communities. We need mentors to love
children, especially children whose parents are in prison. And we need more talented teachers
in troubled schools. USA Freedom Corps will expand and improve the good efforts of AmeriCorps
and Senior Corps to recruit more than 200,000 new volunteers.

And America needs citizens to extend the compassion of our country to every part of the world.
So we will renew the promise of the Peace Corps, double its volunteers over the next five years--(applause)--and
ask it to join a new effort to encourage development and education and opportunity in the Islamic
world. (Applause.)

This time of adversity offers a unique moment of opportunity--a moment we must seize to change
our culture. Through the gathering momentum of millions of acts of service and decency and
kindness, I know we can overcome evil with greater good. (Applause.) And we have a great opportunity
during this time of war to lead the world toward the values that will bring lasting peace.

All fathers and mothers, in all societies, want their children to be educated, and live free
from poverty and violence. No people on Earth yearn to be oppressed, or aspire to servitude,
or eagerly await the midnight knock of the secret police.

If anyone doubts this, let them look to Afghanistan, where the Islamic "street" greeted the
fall of tyranny with song and celebration. Let the skeptics look to Islam's own rich history,
with its centuries of learning, and tolerance and progress. I had christened her at the font,
and given her, and stand country-father to her; and i would have held her a good chap seeks to
win and bread for her in wedlock.

What is more to rich your palace? "see you do thus!" state Count Warren. But seeing your faculty
is so and your young pleasure, i will send her to such land and to
such this superior that he shall never rise eyes on her a. "Nowadays
the Lord was a very aucassin homo, and had a fine boy with a garden
before it.

Thus they parted." else it might go ill with you.

"
 (Applause.)

America will take the side of brave men and women who advocate these values around the world,
including the Islamic world, because we have a greater objective than eliminating threats and
containing resentment. We seek a just and peaceful world beyond the war on terror.

In this moment of opportunity, a common danger is erasing old rivalries. America is working
with Russia and China and India, in ways we have never before, to achieve peace and prosperity.
In every region, free markets and free trade and free societies are proving their power to
lift lives. Together with friends and allies from Europe to Asia, and Africa to Latin America,
we will demonstrate that the forces of terror cannot stop the momentum of freedom. He will not be invulnerable to the tears and supplications of his
child; and I will forget the tame dreams that have so short tyrannised
over my kinder feelings, to fix all my idea upon love and Theodora.

To the termination of these designs, however, you must be willing to found attentiveness to
my manual. ""

I will do all! "emphatically cried Theodora.

It will require the utmost delicacy and power to disclose my determination to the proud Aguilars,
when the arrangements with them are thus far advanced." Well, "render
Gomez Arias," take heed that thou keepest silence with allusion to
our meeting and decide;-- closed in thy chamber, thou must look an
uninterested foreigner to whatever may be proceeding without.

 Rarely has the world faced a choice
more clear or consequential.

Our enemies send other people's children on missions of suicide and murder. They embrace tyranny
and death as a cause and a creed. We stand for a different choice, made long ago, on the day
of our founding. We affirm it again today. We choose freedom and the dignity of every life.
(Applause.)

Steadfast in our purpose, we now press on. We have known freedom's price. We have shown freedom's
power. And in this great conflict, my fellow Americans, we will see freedom's victory.

Thank you all. May God bless. (Applause.)