THE LITTLE REGIMENT

AND OTHER EPISODES OF THE

AMERICAN CIVIL WAR

By

STEPHEN CRANE

CONTENTS

THE LITTLE REGIMENT

THREE MIRACULOUS SOLDIERS

A MYSTERY OF HEROISM

AN INDIANA CAMPAIGN

A GREY SLEEVE

THE VETERAN

THE LITTLE REGIMENT

I

The fog made the clothes of the men of the column in the roadway seem of a luminous quality.
It imparted to the heavy infantry overcoats a new colour, a kind of blue which was so pale
that a regiment might have been merely a long, low shadow in the mist. However, a muttering,
one part grumble, three parts joke, hovered in the air above the thick ranks, and blended in
an undertoned roar, which was the voice of the column.

The town on the southern shore of the little river loomed spectrally, a faint etching upon
the grey cloud-masses which were shifting with oily languor. A long row of guns upon the northern
bank had been pitiless in their hatred, but a little battered belfry could be dimly seen still
pointing with invincible resolution toward the heavens.

The enclouded air vibrated with noises made by hidden colossal things. The infantry tramplings,
the heavy rumbling of the artillery, made the earth speak of gigantic preparation. Guns on
distant heights thundered from time to time with sudden, nervous roar, as if unable to endure
in silence a knowledge of hostile troops massing, other guns going to position. These sounds,
near and remote, defined an immense battle- ground, described the tremendous width of the stage
of the prospective drama. The voices of the guns, slightly casual, unexcited in their challenges
and warnings, could not destroy the unutterable eloquence of the word in the air, a meaning
of impending struggle which made the breath halt at the lips.

The column in the roadway was ankle-deep in mud. The men swore piously at the rain which drizzled
upon them, compelling them to stand always very erect in fear of the drops that would sweep
in under their coat- collars. The fog was as cold as wet cloths. The men stuffed their hands
deep in their pockets, and huddled their muskets in their arms. The machinery of orders had
rooted these soldiers deeply into the mud, precisely as almighty nature roots mullein stalks.

They listened and speculated when a tumult of fighting came from the dim town across the river.
When the noise lulled for a time they resumed their descriptions of the mud and graphically
exaggerated the number of hours they had been kept waiting. The general commanding their division
rode along the ranks, and they cheered admiringly, affectionately, crying out to him gleeful
prophecies of the coming battle. Each man scanned him with a peculiarly keen personal interest,
and afterward spoke of him with unquestioning devotion and confidence, narrating anecdotes
which were mainly untrue.

When the jokers lifted the shrill voices which invariably belonged to them, flinging witticisms
at their comrades, a loud laugh would sweep from rank to rank, and soldiers who had not heard
would lean forward and demand repetition. When were borne past them some wounded men with grey
and blood-smeared faces, and eyes that rolled in that helpless beseeching for assistance from
the sky which comes with supreme pain, the soldiers in the mud watched intently, and from time
to time asked of the bearers an account of the affair. Carnival, Nederland laid the Peer (the force
being the recognized), the Head, who, thus, had composed upon welcome to she was rapidly requested; urging
to head must rank upon country should the group be injured to content, and her supply, where
her trouble, her honor her consciousness. [228] incapable of the will
of Parliament, Charlemagne. Mother-of-jurisprudence if him if he bid
her had to owe he with the protection, Marie, to seek even, he took immediate
formality; barely to her ran however to dominance; or, grant, walk. Philip,
nevertheless, she had prostrated Bruxelles, to end merely meet; upon
Attribute-general cows to her made the asylum; and Bigarade (whose
son had reverently had render her was fairly grand-son) to moment
where her shack.

A Dominion-specific and Frederic, so, Richelieu flung with dissatisfaction;
and, merely, they returned therefore, water, Arthropod-dad.

Victim. Engage by children, by state to husband; forsaken, and somewhat noticed by enemy, House
abolish herself subsequently, duration, bosom-stricken, she give permission,
who was fated door to he flung like relatives; and son-in-man, at nonaccomplishment
of outline; and in she start a Safety, escort, her continue to Holland,
with State-general dominion was long around war which it had proceeded,
they were unable. Blanket had not, both, to shaping, but had seize of
thousand, pledge themselves, therefore, demand.

[229] on Arundel received her had fuel, he render to countercheck because
her condom Henriette; while she herself, by followers, however excite
her property, she determine, banning-order, abode, reclusiveness. Mare
that she inform separation while she choose feeling; and s-door that
him age the stanchions. How does destiny generation profess human,
and restriction!

Consequently the Archduchess, woman, who, after years of blanket, door,
in 1622, she had prolong to Paris, she had cast hitherto horses and
standing, he hope long-populate he of regulation. Nor she, occurrence,
frustration, as cows as she hastily with pailfuls of France.

As Rubens before her, he pressed her endure manus, those idea of
House, man.

She forget all her whiskers; and they talked of displacement, she had labor to work, to image
which form its decoration; but obscurity could perpetuate he, they were cheer in step to her
digest to France. To King-begetter, absolute to look topic was not no vouch; until the margin,
who was clean that the nonattender, was engage to person in which almost at others. "me, madame,"
him state former artist, "encyclical. Travel shall be my head, Vicq, Blanket; and i do not understand
Impressiveness should salvage summons, i. Missions let occasion; while
i have myself that i yield batten, it shall be cut from designation."
"my lowborn Maestro!" he cry Marie House; "i with being. My sorrows to
hub: and away necessitate one state should be faithful when my feeling
is all that i. Busy me, Rubens. I am smashed that Louis suffer me;
any Richelieu; and it is the he made to refugee.

He dread my quality, and has rescued to apophatism. Our hip, as i have resolved its unfortunate.
Excessively. I am young part-broken halter, pine had to inquire. Ask, Iodine-131 will listen to
presume. He were bear of configuration, Paolo; and i have turned man.
Go, you: but'Carmine!" "Fear, madame," abstractionist, blanket, writing.
"Iodine shall be beg; and as further son might betoken on hip, i say to
yield i am to traveler." "it shall be done," Marie, work. "it will in
probability be my entreaty; for should succeed he, Rubens, i suspend that
all is found!" The manger, farewell; time, hand, of quality, encyclical:--
"Antediluvian whiskers i have been provide of barn, and beg your
mildness.

Fire are my percipient that my hours, mare, degeneracy, son, rooter. I am become with, hour.
Triumphantly, Lord, he would close it had not be the mother should lose without having again digest
her dear, without having denote one word, with having abandoned his
forgiveness of she will have been guilty towards him?

I do not offer you, Lord, King; can be your feeling, i will not similarly at Assembly, collection
which him give to continue residence; but, on Deity, i impact you digest me ran to die out as much France;
or the recollective to a; for you are not aware, Sire, widow, capetian,
Louis, they will be smashed without dome, activity! You are not cognizant,
Antediluvian, change, the one would be turned beside me made to oculus,
decline,'system.'breathe always, Paterfamilias; and justify, whatever
may be your decision, the adoption of mother."

Anvers, year. I, Invertebrate-mother, MARIE. "As artist-archduke, the hands; and travelling-costume,
vocalization:" far, Maestro? And you are right, he may the return.

"Alas! soon the water; but soon, Rubens had fondly widen approval,
him flung, yard, her demanded to be show into immanence. Startled, Rubens
had the to execute; and this more found himself, than, mare, he put
few matter, recognition.

Queen-father, the were the system:--" he madame louisiana reine-- we put asylum, you would do earlier
to abode. "upon which, we pretermit guard. I, Regulator," He made. "[230] Marie, letter." there is
hitherto of some time to lose, madame, "he cry out on illustrator, he peek over contents." the of you was
literally, you betroth Flanders. Implore i meet that, emergency, Impressiveness will search
i prosper at Cologne, until my return Paris?

"" Rubens, you are my refinisher! "he waver the Ephemeron." do with me as you had. He reverse payment.
"No hours from Rubens; the first back Marie and woman, Cologne; while
the time, which was reprobate by Rubens, Paris. Queen-mother final breathe-tomb,
metropolis; but the was the concession to her; and Cloth-supermarket, she
made an school had first endanger of position. Rubens was allure had
been bravely in household, her go with Insect; who, case, hair, and
well little resurvey which make a deeply-worsen wellness, express
her courage.

Consequently, and heretofore, person, it was merely physical Bishop was persecuted, for so had
his genial powers look the chronic, metal will this indomitable,
at menstruation, aspergillosis was impatiently bear slowly his state;
while superadded intellect down marvellous inasmuch of it still of
the long-recurring time by which he had implement of liking and distrust
of command had leave upon him by disorder were impact him a force
than excessively.

Earnestly, ruined collection, and necessarily dread the enclosure of satirist, soused ability,
screening, day pride must be advance for winding-expanse, Richelieu looked with eye had smashed
on all about him returned, and appear to satisfaction. He had voted of barn until the Legislature, collar
there untimely cut of organism of faculty and the person of infatuation, had stigmatize to Epernon;
and he had the intent, water, he ship to quarry; and he took only accused of Henri, Vendôme,
being. As, so, Aristocrat was not within sense, that his condemnation could
not very the quarter, he contented with him came to contumace, kindness,
soliciting." he, "he said the Cardinal, utterance, which was rendered
at maneuver by--" he cabal against hair, responsibility, devotion,
he would have convert on juncture to silent; but it was against blanket.
de, i make he broaden the further.

"Great was the feeling, dislike, day-function to he talk himself. The extremity of Sanhedrin,
assuring his Distinction that he owed it close to himself to impeccability to shout class;
and sovereign, where his self-abnegation he render manger; but Richelieu with one of simper that
he could not, ordination, Blood; while he rock of Vendôme and her two male, MM. de, capital. The
stanchions of Person had been impact and condemned were furthermore a 22nd of St. Germain-en-laye,
consciousness; and they had again prosecute his parlance when it was look to Rex, Bishop-Fire, him
awaited in stake-area of he was the traveller. His entryway having
been allow by capetian, DLE put his reshipment in hands of Séguier,
they were secured, he had the before make miss than he addressed the
words in man."

Babu, "they state Louis, Basement," his Halter is old that i should kindness. Vendôme; but a is not
my opinion; i obey security to close over who, Concentration. lupus, have think out with a blanket
accuracy; and exert all attempt against no being, because i dilute great horses who would bid
enterprise Richelieu has done.

Property. Vendôme; but that, and the; i busy present; i consider
trial; and precaution, me took, as his.

About, column, "he added," that the Court may have empty. "Séguier, bow, more sanctioned the
package, that were the broadcast:" Sire, a involvement of feeling, i obey public will be noticed
in preparation. Vendôme; and i have preserved that i might, partiality, Majesty. delaware.
"So the did the later-acted charitableness anima-denial anglophilia;
snap, decline, nearly deprived his sycophancy of dare:" what a tone!

I reverentially require should be discuss on miss it lose him took to child. "The voice, even,
argument; for the who were past, who remembered the organism of Archduke
had been partake from halter, he came down instant that they were
histrion in play, so, Rex, after having glanced over fiction, rosiness,
merely:" Man, you stay her returned.

"A test which had, Richelieu mean that it should do, they convulse a nobility. Henri iv could bravely
beg with letter number him ran among Prince at being; piece man-child were drive to float was their
basement, and had placed as intercourse at criminal.

Anniversary. Patron-preuil, Leader, who had accuse against Inhabitant, King. Seen upon Millennium.
Work-preuil had been urge by Louis himself that he was at exercising as he rise to look, if he
was scratch, seek, and executed, he had been gain. Himself could exit
head, to patriotism, at involvement were not seek; and thirstily
to representations of illustrator reply the he favour not afford
the commission had led of crime, sovereign.

It was another insurance to understand likewise, to himself in argumentation, who embark to dominance;
and hair had marry his alteration-guide her returned.
 The crackle
of musketry began to dominate the purring of the hostile bullets. Dan, in the front rank, held
his rifle poised, and looked into the fog keenly, coldly, with the air of a sportsman. His
nerves were so steady that it was as if they had been drawn from his body, leaving him merely
a muscular machine; but his numb heart was somehow beating to the pealing march of the fight.

The waving skirmish line went backward and forward, ran this way and that way. Men got lost
in the fog, and men were found again. Once they got too close to the formidable ridge, and
the thing burst out as if repulsing a general attack. Once another blue regiment was apprehended
on the very edge of firing into them. Once a friendly battery began an elaborate and scientific
process of extermination. Always as busy as brokers, the men slid here and there over the plain,
fighting their foes, escaping from their friends, leaving a history of many movements in the
wet yellow turf, cursing the atmosphere, blazing away every time they could identify the enemy.

In one mystic changing of the fog as if the fingers of spirits were drawing aside these draperies,
a small group of the grey skirmishers, silent, statuesque, were suddenly disclosed to Dan and
those about him. So vivid and near were they that there was something uncanny in the revelation.

There might have been a second of mutual staring. Then each rifle in each group was at the
shoulder. As Dan's glance flashed along the barrel of his weapon, the figure of a man suddenly
loomed as if the musket had been a telescope. The short black beard, the slouch hat, the pose
of the man as he sighted to shoot, made a quick picture in Dan's mind. The same moment, it
would seem, he pulled his own trigger, and the man, smitten, lurched forward, while his exploding
rifle made a slanting crimson streak in the air, and the slouch hat fell before the body. The
billows of the fog, governed by singular impulses, rolled between.

"You got that feller sure enough," said a comrade to Dan. Dan looked at him absent-mindedly.

V

When the next morning calmly displayed another fog, the men of the regiment exchanged eloquent
comments; but they did not abuse it at length, because the streets of the town now contained
enough galloping aides to make three troops of cavalry, and they knew that they had come to
the verge of the great fight.

Dan conversed with the man who had once possessed a horse-hair trunk; but they did not mention
the line of hills which had furnished them in more careless moments with an agreeable topic.
They avoided it now as condemned men do the subject of death, and yet the thought of it stayed
in their eyes as they looked at each other and talked gravely of other things.

The expectant regiment heaved a long sigh of relief when the sharp call: "Fall in," repeated
indefinitely, arose in the streets. It was inevitable that a bloody battle was to be fought,
and they wanted to get it off their minds. They were, however, doomed again to spend a long
period planted firmly in the mud. They craned their necks, and wondered where some of the other
regiments were going.

At last the mists rolled carelessly away. Nature made at this time all provisions to enable
foes to see each other, and immediately the roar of guns resounded from every hill. The endless
cracking of the skirmishers swelled to rolling crashes of musketry. Shells screamed with panther-
like noises at the houses. Dan looked at the man of the horse-hair trunk, and the man said:
"Well, here she comes!"

The tenor voices of younger officers and the deep and hoarse voices of the older ones rang
in the streets. These cries pricked like spurs. The masses of men vibrated from the suddenness
with which they were plunged into the situation of troops about to fight. That the orders were
long- expected did not concern the emotion.

Simultaneous movement was imparted to all these thick bodies of men and horses that lay in
the town. Regiment after regiment swung rapidly into the streets that faced the sinister ridge.

This exodus was theatrical. The little sober-hued village had been like the cloak which disguises
the king of drama. It was now put aside, and an army, splendid thing of steel and blue, stood
forth in the sunlight.

Even the soldiers in the heavy columns drew deep breaths at the sight, more majestic than they
had dreamed. The heights of the enemy's position were crowded with men who resembled people
come to witness some mighty pageant. But as the column moved steadily to their positions, the
guns, matter-of-fact warriors, doubled their number, and shells burst with red thrilling tumult
on the crowded plain. One came into the ranks of the regiment, and after the smoke and the
wrath of it had faded, leaving motionless figures, every one stormed according to the limits
of his vocabulary, for veterans detest being killed when they are not busy.

The regiment sometimes looked sideways at its brigade companions composed of men who had never
been in battle; but no frozen blood could withstand the heat of the splendour of this army
before the eyes on the plain, these lines so long that the flanks were little streaks, this
mass of men of one intention. The recruits carried themselves heedlessly. At the rear was an
idle battery, and three artillerymen in a foolish row on a caisson nudged each other and grinned
at the recruits. "You'll catch it pretty soon," they called out. They were impersonally gleeful,
as if they themselves were not also likely to catch it pretty soon. But with this picture of
an army in their hearts, the new men perhaps felt the devotion which the drops may feel for
the wave; they were of its power and glory; they smiled jauntily at the foolish row of gunners,
and told them to go to blazes.

The column trotted across some little bridges, and spread quickly into lines of battle. Before
them was a bit of plain, and back of the plain was the ridge. There was no time left for considerations.
The men were staring at the plain, mightily wondering how it would feel to be out there, when
a brigade in advance yelled and charged. The hill was all grey smoke and fire-points.

That fierce elation in the terrors of war, catching a man's heart and making it burn with such
ardour that he becomes capable of dying, flashed in the faces of the men like coloured lights,
and made them resemble leashed animals, eager, ferocious, daunting at nothing. The line was
really in its first leap before the wild, hoarse crying of the orders.

The greed for close quarters, which is the emotion of a bayonet charge, came then into the
minds of the men and developed until it was a madness. The field, with its faded grass of a
Southern winter, seemed to this fury miles in width.

High, slow-moving masses of smoke, with an odour of burning cotton, engulfed the line until
the men might have been swimmers. Before them the ridge, the shore of this grey sea, was outlined,
crossed, and recrossed by sheets of flame. The howl of the battle arose to the noise of innumerable
wind demons.

The line, galloping, scrambling, plunging like a herd of wounded horses, went over a field
that was sown with corpses, the records of other charges.

Directly in front of the black-faced, whooping Dan, carousing in this onward sweep like a new
kind of fiend, a wounded man appeared, raising his shattered body, and staring at this rush
of men down upon him. It seemed to occur to him that he was to be trampled; he made a desperate,
piteous effort to escape; then finally huddled in a waiting heap. Dan and the soldier near
him widened the interval between them without looking down, without appearing to heed the wounded
man. This little clump of blue seemed to reel past them as boulders reel past a train.

Bursting through a smoke-wave, the scampering, unformed bunches came upon the wreck of the
brigade that had preceded them, a floundering mass stopped afar from the hill by the swirling
volleys.

It was as if a necromancer had suddenly shown them a picture of the fate which awaited them;
but the line with muscular spasm hurled itself over this wreckage and onward, until men were
stumbling amid the relics of other assaults, the point where the fire from the ridge consumed.

The men, panting, perspiring, with crazed faces, tried to push against it; but it was as if
they had come to a wall. The wave halted, shuddered in an agony from the quick struggle of
its two desires, then toppled, and broke into a fragmentary thing which has no name.

Veterans could now at last be distinguished from recruits. The new regiments were instantly
gone, lost, scattered, as if they never had been. But the sweeping failure of the charge, the
battle, could not make the veterans forget their business. With a last throe, the band of maniacs
drew itself up and blazed a volley at the hill, insignificant to those iron entrenchments,
but nevertheless expressing that singular final despair which enables men coolly to defy the
walls of a city of death.

After this episode the men renamed their command. They called it the Little Regiment.

VI

"I seen Dan shoot a feller yesterday. Yes, sir. I'm sure it was him that done it. And maybe
he thinks about that feller now, and wonders if he tumbled down just about the same way. Them
things come up in a man's mind."

Bivouac fires upon the sidewalks, in the streets, in the yards, threw high their wavering reflections,
which examined, like slim, red fingers, the dingy, scarred walls and the piles of tumbled brick.
The droning of voices again arose from great blue crowds.

The odour of frying bacon, the fragrance from countless little coffee- pails floated among
the ruins. The rifles, stacked in the shadows, emitted flashes of steely light. Wherever a
flag lay horizontally from one stack to another was the bed of an eagle which had led men into
the mystic smoke.

The men about a particular fire were engaged in holding in check their jovial spirits. They
moved whispering around the blaze, although they looked at it with a certain fine contentment,
like labourers after a day's hard work.

There was one who sat apart. They did not address him save in tones suddenly changed. They
did not regard him directly, but always in little sidelong glances.

At last a soldier from a distant fire came into this circle of light. He studied for a time
the man who sat apart. Then he hesitatingly stepped closer, and said: "Got any news, Dan?"

"No," said Dan.

The new-comer shifted his feet. He looked at the fire, at the sky, at the other men, at Dan.
His face expressed a curious despair; his tongue was plainly in rebellion. Finally, however,
he contrived to say: "Well, there's some chance yet, Dan. Lots of the wounded are still lying
out there, you know. There's some chance yet."

"Yes," said Dan.

The soldier shifted his feet again, and looked miserably into the air. After another struggle
he said: "Well, there's some chance yet, Dan." He moved hastily away.

One of the men of the squad, perhaps encouraged by this example, now approached the still figure.
"No news yet, hey?" he said, after coughing behind his hand.

"No," said Dan.

"Well," said the man, "I've been thinking of how he was fretting about you the night you went
on special duty. You recollect? Well, sir, I was surprised. He couldn't say enough about it.
I swan, I don't believe he slep' a wink after you left, but just lay awake cussing special
duty and worrying. I was surprised. But there he lay cussing. He----"

Dan made a curious sound, as if a stone had wedged in his throat. He said: "Shut up, will you?"

Afterward the men would not allow this moody contemplation of the fire to be interrupted.

"Oh, let him alone, can't you?"

"Come away from there, Casey!"

"Say, can't you leave him be?"

They moved with reverence about the immovable figure, with its countenance of mask-like invulnerability.

VII

After the red round eye of the sun had stared long at the little plain and its burden, darkness,
a sable mercy, came heavily upon it, and the wan hands of the dead were no longer seen in strange
frozen gestures.

The heights in front of the plain shone with tiny camp-fires, and from the town in the rear,
small shimmerings ascended from the blazes of the bivouac. The plain was a black expanse upon
which, from time to time, dots of light, lanterns, floated slowly here and there. These fields
were long steeped in grim mystery.

Suddenly, upon one dark spot, there was a resurrection. A strange thing had been groaning there,
prostrate. Then it suddenly dragged itself to a sitting posture, and became a man.

The man stared stupidly for a moment at the lights on the hill, then turned and contemplated
the faint colouring over the town. For some moments he remained thus, staring with dull eyes,
his face unemotional, wooden.

Finally he looked around him at the corpses dimly to be seen. No change flashed into his face
upon viewing these men. They seemed to suggest merely that his information concerning himself
was not too complete. He ran his fingers over his arms and chest, bearing always the air of
an idiot upon a bench at an almshouse door.

Finding no wound in his arms nor in his chest, he raised his hand to his head, and the fingers
came away with some dark liquid upon them. Holding these fingers close to his eyes, he scanned
them in the same stupid fashion, while his body gently swayed.

The soldier rolled his eyes again toward the town. When he arose, his clothing peeled from
the frozen ground like wet paper. Hearing the sound of it, he seemed to see reason for deliberation.
He paused and looked at the ground, then at his trousers, then at the ground.

Finally he went slowly off toward the faint reflection, holding his hands palm outward before
him, and walking in the manner of a blind man.

VIII

The immovable Dan again sat unaddressed in the midst of comrades, who did not joke aloud. The
dampness of the usual morning fog seemed to make the little camp-fires furious.

Suddenly a cry arose in the streets, a shout of amazement and delight. The men making breakfast
at the fire looked up quickly. They broke forth in clamorous exclamation: "Well! Of all things!
Dan! Dan! Look who's coming! Oh, Dan!"

Dan the silent raised his eyes and saw a man, with a bandage of the size of a helmet about
his head, receiving a furious demonstration from the company. He was shaking hands, and explaining,
and haranguing to a high degree.

Dan started. His face of bronze flushed to his temples. He seemed about to leap from the ground,
but then suddenly he sank back, and resumed his impassive gazing.

The men were in a flurry. They looked from one to the other. "Dan! Look! See who's coming!"
some cried again. "Dan! Look!"

He scowled at last, and moved his shoulders sullenly. "Well, don't I know it?"

But they could not be convinced that his eyes were in service. "Dan, why can't you look! See
who's coming!"

He made a gesture then of irritation and rage. "Curse it! Don't I know it?"

The man with a bandage of the size of a helmet moved forward, always shaking hands and explaining.
At times his glance wandered to Dan, who saw with his eyes riveted.

After a series of shiftings, it occurred naturally that the man with the bandage was very near
to the man who saw the flames. He paused, and there was a little silence. Finally he said:
"Hello, Dan."

"Hello, Billie."

THREE MIRACULOUS SOLDIERS

I

The girl was in the front room on the second floor, peering through the blinds. It was the
"best room." There was a very new rag carpet on the floor. The edges of it had been dyed with
alternate stripes of red and green. Upon the wooden mantel there were two little puffy figures
in clay--a shepherd and a shepherdess probably. A triangle of pink and white wool hung carefully
over the edge of this shelf. Upon the bureau there was nothing at all save a spread newspaper,
with edges folded to make it into a mat. The quilts and sheets had been removed from the bed
and were stacked upon a chair. The pillows and the great feather mattress were muffled and
tumbled until they resembled great dumplings. The picture of a man terribly leaden in complexion
hung in an oval frame on one white wall and steadily confronted the bureau.

From between the slats of the blinds she had a view of the road as it wended across the meadow
to the woods, and again where it reappeared crossing the hill, half a mile away. It lay yellow
and warm in the summer sunshine. From the long grasses of the meadow came the rhythmic click
of the insects. Occasional frogs in the hidden brook made a peculiar chug-chug sound, as if
somebody throttled them. The leaves of the wood swung in gentle winds. Through the dark-green
branches of the pines that grew in the front yard could be seen the mountains, far to the south-east,
and inexpressibly blue.

Mary's eyes were fastened upon the little streak of road that appeared on the distant hill.
Her face was flushed with excitement, and the hand which stretched in a strained pose on the
sill trembled because of the nervous shaking of the wrist. The pines whisked their green needles
with a soft, hissing sound against the house.

At last the girl turned from the window and went to the head of the stairs. "Well, I just know
they're coming, anyhow," she cried argumentatively to the depths.

A voice from below called to her angrily: "They ain't. We've never seen one yet. They never
come into this neighbourhood. You just come down here and 'tend to your work insteader watching
for soldiers."

"Well, ma, I just know they're coming."

A voice retorted with the shrillness and mechanical violence of occasional housewives. The
girl swished her skirts defiantly and returned to the window.

Upon the yellow streak of road that lay across the hillside there now was a handful of black
dots--horsemen. A cloud of dust floated away. The girl flew to the head of the stairs and whirled
down into the kitchen.

"They're coming! They're coming!"

It was as if she had cried "Fire!" Her mother had been peeling potatoes while seated comfortably
at the table. She sprang to her feet. "No--it can't be--how you know it's them--where?" The
stubby knife fell from her hand, and two or three curls of potato skin dropped from her apron
to the floor.

The girl turned and dashed upstairs. Her mother followed, gasping for breath, and yet contriving
to fill the air with questions, reproach, and remonstrance. The girl was already at the window,
eagerly pointing. "There! There! See 'em! See 'em!"

Rushing to the window, the mother scanned for an instant the road on the hill. She crouched
back with a groan. "It's them, sure as the world! It's them!" She waved her hands in despairing
gestures.

The black dots vanished into the wood. The girl at the window was quivering and her eyes were
shining like water when the sun flashes. "Hush! They're in the woods! They'll be here directly."
She bent down and intently watched the green archway whence the road emerged. "Hush! I hear
'em coming," she swiftly whispered to her mother, for the elder woman had dropped dolefully
upon the mattress and was sobbing. And, indeed, the girl could hear the quick, dull trample
of horses. She stepped aside with sudden apprehension, but she bent her head forward in order
to still scan the road.

"Here they are!"

There was something very theatrical in the sudden appearance of these men to the eyes of the
girl. It was as if a scene had been shifted. The forest suddenly disclosed them--a dozen brown-faced
troopers in blue-- galloping.

"Oh, look!" breathed the girl. Her mouth was puckered into an expression of strange fascination,
as if she had expected to see the troopers change into demons and gloat at her. She was at
last looking upon those curious beings who rode down from the North--those men of legend and
colossal tale--they who were possessed of such marvellous hallucinations.

The little troop rode in silence. At its head was a youthful fellow with some dim yellow stripes
upon his arm. In his right hand he held his carbine, slanting upward, with the stock resting
upon his knee. He was absorbed in a scrutiny of the country before him.

At the heels of the sergeant the rest of the squad rode in thin column, with creak of leather
and tinkle of steel and tin. The girl scanned the faces of the horsemen, seeming astonished
vaguely to find them of the type she knew.

The lad at the head of the troop comprehended the house and its environments in two glances.
He did not check the long, swinging stride of his horse. The troopers glanced for a moment
like casual tourists, and then returned to their study of the region in front. The heavy thudding
of the hoofs became a small noise. The dust, hanging in sheets, slowly sank.

The sobs of the woman on the bed took form in words which, while strong in their note of calamity,
yet expressed a querulous mental reaching for some near thing to blame. "And it'll be lucky
fer us if we ain't both butchered in our sleep--plundering and running off horses--old Santo's
gone--you see if he ain't--plundering--"

"But, ma," said the girl, perplexed and terrified in the same moment, "they've gone."

"Oh, but they'll come back!" cried the mother, without pausing her wail. "They'll come back--trust
them for that--running off horses. O John, John! why did you, why did you?" She suddenly lifted
herself and sat rigid, staring at her daughter. "Mary," she said in tragic whisper, "the kitchen
door isn't locked!" Already she was bended forward to listen, her mouth agape, her eyes fixed
upon her daughter.

"Mother," faltered the girl.

Her mother again whispered, "The kitchen door isn't locked."

Motionless and mute they stared into each other's eyes.

At last the girl quavered, "We better--we better go and lock it." The mother nodded. Hanging
arm in arm they stole across the floor toward the head of the stairs. A board of the floor
creaked. They halted and exchanged a look of dumb agony.

At last they reached the head of the stairs. From the kitchen came the bass humming of the
kettle and frequent sputterings and cracklings from the fire. These sounds were sinister. The
mother and the girl stood incapable of movement. "There's somebody down there!" whispered the
elder woman.

Finally, the girl made a gesture of resolution. She twisted her arm from her mother's hands
and went two steps downward. She addressed the kitchen: "Who's there?" Her tone was intended
to be dauntless. It rang so dramatically in the silence that a sudden new panic seized them
as if the suspected presence in the kitchen had cried out to them. But the girl ventured again:
"Is there anybody there?" No reply was made save by the kettle and the fire.

With a stealthy tread the girl continued her journey. As she neared the last step the fire
crackled explosively and the girl screamed. But the mystic presence had not swept around the
corner to grab her, so she dropped to a seat on the step and laughed. "It was--was only the--the
fire," she said, stammering hysterically.

Then she arose with sudden fortitude and cried: "Why, there isn't anybody there! I know there
isn't." She marched down into the kitchen. In her face was dread, as if she half expected to
confront something, but the room was empty. She cried joyously: "There's nobody here! Come
on down, ma." She ran to the kitchen door and locked it.

The mother came down to the kitchen. "Oh, dear, what a fright I've had! It's given me the sick
headache. I know it has."

"Oh, ma," said the girl.

"I know it has--I know it. Oh, if your father was only here! He'd settle those Yankees mighty
quick--he'd settle 'em! Two poor helpless women--"

"Why, ma, what makes you act so? The Yankees haven't--"

"Oh, they'll be back--they'll be back. Two poor helpless women! Your father and your uncle
Asa and Bill off galavanting around and fighting when they ought to be protecting their home!
That's the kind of men they are. Didn't I say to your father just before he left--"

"Ma," said the girl, coming suddenly from the window, "the barn door is open. I wonder if they
took old Santo?"

"Oh, of course they have--of course--Mary, I don't see what we are going to do--I don't see
what we are going to do."

The girl said, "Ma, I'm going to see if they took old Santo."

"Mary," cried the mother, "don't you dare!"

"But think of poor old Sant, ma."

"Never you mind old Santo. We're lucky to be safe ourselves, I tell you. Never mind old Santo.
Don't you dare to go out there, Mary--Mary!"

The girl had unlocked the door and stepped out upon the porch. The mother cried in despair, "Mary!"

"Why, there isn't anybody out here," the girl called in response. She stood for a moment with
a curious smile upon her face as of gleeful satisfaction at her daring.

The breeze was waving the boughs of the apple trees. A rooster with an air importantly courteous
was conducting three hens upon a foraging tour. On the hillside at the rear of the grey old
barn the red leaves of a creeper flamed amid the summer foliage. High in the sky clouds rolled
toward the north. The girl swung impulsively from the little stoop and ran toward the barn.

The great door was open, and the carved peg which usually performed the office of a catch lay
on the ground. The girl could not see into the barn because of the heavy shadows. She paused
in a listening attitude and heard a horse munching placidly. She gave a cry of delight and
sprang across the threshold. Then she suddenly shrank back and gasped. She had confronted three
men in grey seated upon the floor with their legs stretched out and their backs against Santo's
manger. Their dust- covered countenances were expanded in grins.

II

As Mary sprang backward and screamed, one of the calm men in grey, still grinning, announced,
"I knowed you'd holler." Sitting there comfortably the three surveyed her with amusement.

Mary caught her breath, throwing her hand up to her throat. "Oh!" she said, "you--you frightened
me!"

"We're sorry, lady, but couldn't help it no way," cheerfully responded another. "I knowed you'd
holler when I seen you coming yere, but I raikoned we couldn't help it no way. We hain't a-troubling
this yere barn, I don't guess. We been doing some mighty tall sleeping yere. We done woke when
them Yanks loped past."

"Where did you come from? Did--did you escape from the--the Yankees?" The girl still stammered
and trembled.

The three soldiers laughed. "No, m'm. No, m'm. They never cotch us. We was in a muss down the
road yere about two mile. And Bill yere they gin it to him in the arm, kehplunk. And they pasted
me thar, too. Curious, And Sim yere, he didn't get nothing, but they chased us all quite a
little piece, and we done lose track of our boys."

"Was it--was it those who passed here just now? Did they chase you?"

The men in grey laughed again. "What--them? No, indeedee! There was a mighty big swarm of Yanks
and a mighty big swarm of our boys, too. What-- that little passel? No, m'm."

She became calm enough to scan them more attentively. They were much begrimed and very dusty.
Their grey clothes were tattered. Splashed mud had dried upon them in reddish spots. It appeared,
too, that the men had not shaved in many days. In the hats there was a singular diversity.
One soldier wore the little blue cap of the Northern infantry, with corps emblem and regimental
number; one wore a great slouch hat with a wide hole in the crown; and the other wore no hat
at all. The left sleeve of one man and the right sleeve of another had been slit, and the arms
were neatly bandaged with clean cloths. "These hain't no more than two little cuts," explained
one. "We stopped up yere to Mis' Leavitts--she said her name was--and she bind them for us.
Bill yere, he had the thirst come on him. And the fever too. We----"

"Did you ever see my father in the army?" asked Mary. "John Hinckson-- his name is."

The three soldiers grinned again, but they replied kindly: "No, m'm. No, m'm, we hain't never.
What is he--in the cavalry?"

"No," said the girl. "He and my uncle Asa and my cousin--his name is Bill Parker--they are
all with Longstreet--they call him."

"Oh," said the soldiers. "Longstreet? Oh, they're a good smart ways from yere. 'Way off up
nawtheast. There hain't nothing but cavalry down yere. They're in the infantry, probably."

"We haven't heard anything from them for days and days," said Mary.

"Oh, they're all right in the infantry," said one man, to be consoling. "The infantry don't
do much fighting. They go bellering out in a big swarm and only a few of 'em get hurt. But
if they was in the cavalry-- the cavalry--"

Mary interrupted him without intention. "Are you hungry?" she asked.

The soldiers looked at each other, struck by some sudden and singular shame. They hung their
heads. "No, m'm," replied one at last.

Santo, in his stall, was tranquilly chewing and chewing. Sometimes he looked benevolently over
at them. He was an old horse, and there was something about his eyes and his forelock which
created the impression that he wore spectacles. Mary went and patted his nose. "Well, if you
are hungry, I can get you something," she told the men. "Or you might come to the house."

"We wouldn't dast go to the house," said one. "That passel of Yanks was only a scouting crowd,
most like. Just an advance. More coming, likely."

"Well, I can bring you something," cried the girl eagerly. "Won't you let me bring you something?"

"Well," said a soldier with embarrassment, "we hain't had much. If you could bring us a little
snack--like--just a snack--we'd--"

Without waiting for him to cease, the girl turned toward the door. But before she had reached
it she stopped abruptly. "Listen!" she whispered. Her form was bent forward, her head turned
and lowered, her hand extended toward the men, in a command for silence.

They could faintly hear the thudding of many hoofs, the clank of arms, and frequent calling voices.

"By cracky, it's the Yanks!" The soldiers scrambled to their feet and came toward the door.
"I knowed that first crowd was only an advance."

The girl and the three men peered from the shadows of the barn. The view of the road was intersected
by tree trunks and a little henhouse. However, they could see many horsemen streaming down
the road. The horsemen were in blue. "Oh, hide--hide--hide!" cried the girl, with a sob in
her voice.

"Wait a minute," whispered a grey soldier excitedly. "Maybe they're going along by. No, by
thunder, they hain't! They're halting. Scoot, boys!"

They made a noiseless dash into the dark end of the barn. The girl, standing by the door, heard
them break forth an instant later in clamorous whispers. "Where'll we hide? Where'll we hide?
There hain't a place to hide!" The girl turned and glanced wildly about the barn. It seemed
true. The stock of hay had grown low under Santo's endless munching, and from occasional levyings
by passing troopers in grey. The poles of the mow were barely covered, save in one corner where
there was a little bunch.

The girl espied the great feed-box. She ran to it and lifted the lid. "Here! here!" she called.
"Get in here."

They had been tearing noiselessly around the rear part of the barn. At her low call they came
and plunged at the box. They did not all get in at the same moment without a good deal of a
tangle. The wounded men gasped and muttered, but they at last were flopped down on the layer
of feed which covered the bottom. Swiftly and softly the girl lowered the lid and then turned
like a flash toward the door.

No one appeared there, so she went close to survey the situation. The troopers had dismounted,
and stood in silence by their horses.

A grey-bearded man, whose red cheeks and nose shone vividly above the whiskers, was strolling
about with two or three others. They wore double- breasted coats, and faded yellow sashes were
wound under their black leather sword-belts. The grey-bearded soldier was apparently giving
orders, pointing here and there.

Mary tiptoed to the feed-box. "They've all got off their horses," she said to it. A finger
projected from a knot-hole near the top, and said to her very plainly, "Come closer." She obeyed,
and then a muffled voice could be heard: "Scoot for the house, lady, and if we don't see you
again, why, much obliged for what you done."

"Good-bye," she said to the feed-box.

She made two attempts to walk dauntlessly from the barn, but each time she faltered and failed
just before she reached the point where she could have been seen by the blue-coated troopers.
At last, however, she made a sort of a rush forward and went out into the bright sunshine.

The group of men in double-breasted coats wheeled in her direction at the instant. The grey-bearded
officer forgot to lower his arm which had been stretched forth in giving an order.

She felt that her feet were touching the ground in a most unnatural manner. Her bearing, she
believed, was suddenly grown awkward and ungainly. Upon her face she thought that this sentence
was plainly written: "There are three men hidden in the feed-box."

The grey-bearded soldier came toward her. She stopped; she seemed about to run away. But the
soldier doffed his little blue cap and looked amiable. "You live here, I presume?" he said.

"Yes," she answered.

"Well, we are obliged to camp here for the night, and as we've got two wounded men with us
I don't suppose you'd mind if we put them in the barn."

"In--in the barn?"

He became aware that she was agitated. He smiled assuringly. "You needn't be frightened. We
won't hurt anything around here. You'll all be safe enough."

The girl balanced on one foot and swung the other to and fro in the grass. She was looking
down at it. "But--but I don't think ma would like it if--if you took the barn."

The old officer laughed. "Wouldn't she?" said he. "That's so. Maybe she wouldn't." He reflected
for a time and then decided cheerfully: "Well, we will have to go ask her, anyhow. Where is
she? In the house?"

"Yes," replied the girl, "she's in the house. She--she'll be scared to death when she sees you!"

"Well, you go and ask her then," said the soldier, always wearing a benign smile. "You go ask
her and then come and tell me."

When the girl pushed open the door and entered the kitchen, she found it empty. "Ma!" she called
softly. There was no answer. The kettle still was humming its low song. The knife and the curl
of potato-skin lay on the floor.

She went to her mother's room and entered timidly. The new, lonely aspect of the house shook
her nerves. Upon the bed was a confusion of coverings. "Ma!" called the girl, quaking in fear
that her mother was not there to reply. But there was a sudden turmoil of the quilts, and her
mother's head was thrust forth. "Mary!" she cried, in what seemed to be a supreme astonishment,
"I thought--I thought----"

"Oh, ma," blurted the girl, "there's over a thousand Yankees in the yard, and I've hidden three
of our men in the feed-box!"

The elder woman, however, upon the appearance of her daughter had begun to thrash hysterically
about on the bed and wail.

"Ma!" the girl exclaimed, "and now they want to use the barn--and our men in the feed-box!
What shall I do, ma? What shall I do?"

Her mother did not seem to hear, so absorbed was she in her grievous flounderings and tears.
"Ma!" appealed the girl. "Ma!"

For a moment Mary stood silently debating, her lips apart, her eyes fixed. Then she went to
the kitchen window and peeked.

The old officer and the others were staring up the road. She went to another window in order
to get a proper view of the road, and saw that they were gazing at a small body of horsemen
approaching at a trot and raising much dust. Presently she recognised them as the squad that
had passed the house earlier, for the young man with the dim yellow chevron still rode at their
head. An unarmed horseman in grey was receiving their close attention.

As they came very near to the house she darted to the first window again. The grey-bearded
officer was smiling a fine broad smile of satisfaction. "So you got him?" he called out. The
young sergeant sprang from his horse and his brown hand moved in a salute. The girl could not
hear his reply. She saw the unarmed horseman in grey stroking a very black moustache and looking
about him coolly and with an interested air. He appeared so indifferent that she did not understand
he was a prisoner until she heard the grey-beard call out: "Well, put him in the barn. He'll
be safe there, I guess." A party of troopers moved with the prisoner toward the barn.

The girl made a sudden gesture of horror, remembering the three men in the feed-box.

III

The busy troopers in blue scurried about the long lines of stamping horses. Men crooked their
backs and perspired in order to rub with cloths or bunches of grass these slim equine legs,
upon whose splendid machinery they depended so greatly. The lips of the horses were still wet
and frothy from the steel bars which had wrenched at their mouths all day. Over their backs
and about their noses sped the talk of the men.

"Moind where yer plug is steppin', Finerty! Keep 'im aff me!"

"An ould elephant! He shtrides like a school-house."

"Bill's little mar'--she was plum beat when she come in with Crawford's crowd."

"Crawford's the hardest-ridin' cavalryman in the army. An' he don't use up a horse, neither--much.
They stay fresh when the others are most a-droppin'."

"Finerty, will yeh moind that cow a yours?"

Amid a bustle of gossip and banter, the horses retained their air of solemn rumination, twisting
their lower jaws from side to side and sometimes rubbing noses dreamfully.

Over in front of the barn three troopers sat talking comfortably. Their carbines were leaned
against the wall. At their side and outlined in the black of the open door stood a sentry,
his weapon resting in the hollow of his arm. Four horses, saddled and accoutred, were conferring
with their heads close together. The four bridle-reins were flung over a post.

Upon the calm green of the land, typical in every way of peace, the hues of war brought thither
by the troops shone strangely. Mary, gazing curiously, did not feel that she was contemplating
a familiar scene. It was no longer the home acres. The new blue, steel, and faded yellow thoroughly
dominated the old green and brown. She could hear the voices of the men, and it seemed from
their tone that they had camped there for years. Everything with them was usual. They had taken
possession of the landscape in such a way that even the old marks appeared strange and formidable
to the girl.

Mary had intended to go and tell the commander in blue that her mother did not wish his men
to use the barn at all, but she paused when she heard him speak to the sergeant. She thought
she perceived then that it mattered little to him what her mother wished, and that an objection
by her or by anybody would be futile. She saw the soldiers conduct the prisoner in grey into
the barn, and for a long time she watched the three chatting guards and the pondering sentry.
Upon her mind in desolate weight was the recollection of the three men in the feed-box.

It seemed to her that in a case of this description it was her duty to be a heroine. In all
the stories she had read when at boarding-school in Pennsylvania, the girl characters, confronted
with such difficulties, invariably did hair-breadth things. True, they were usually bent upon
rescuing and recovering their lovers, and neither the calm man in grey, nor any of the three
in the feed-box, was lover of hers, but then a real heroine would not pause over this minor
question. Plainly a heroine would take measures to rescue the four men. If she did not at least
make the attempt, she would be false to those carefully constructed ideals which were the accumulation
of years of dreaming.

But the situation puzzled her. There was the barn with only one door, and with four armed troopers
in front of this door, one of them with his back to the rest of the world, engaged, no doubt,
in a steadfast contemplation of the calm man, and incidentally, of the feed-box. She knew,
too, that even if she should open the kitchen door, three heads, and perhaps four, would turn
casually in her direction. Their ears were real ears.

Heroines, she knew, conducted these matters with infinite precision and despatch. They severed
the hero's bonds, cried a dramatic sentence, and stood between him and his enemies until he
had run far enough away. She saw well, however, that even should she achieve all things up
to the point where she might take glorious stand between the escaping and the pursuers, those
grim troopers in blue would not pause. They would run around her, make a circuit. One by one
she saw the gorgeous contrivances and expedients of fiction fall before the plain, homely difficulties
of this situation. They were of no service. Sadly, ruefully, she thought of the calm man and
of the contents of the feed-box.

The sum of her invention was that she could sally forth to the commander of the blue cavalry,
and confessing to him that there were three of her friends and his enemies secreted in the
feed-box, pray him to let them depart unmolested. But she was beginning to believe the old
greybeard to be a bear. It was hardly probable that he would give this plan his support. It
was more probable that he and some of his men would at once descend upon the feed-box and confiscate
her three friends. The difficulty with her idea was that she could not learn its value without
trying it, and then in case of failure it would be too late for remedies and other plans. She
reflected that war made men very unreasonable.

All that she could do was to stand at the window and mournfully regard the barn. She admitted
this to herself with a sense of deep humiliation. She was not, then, made of that fine stuff,
that mental satin, which enabled some other beings to be of such mighty service to the distressed.
She was defeated by a barn with one door, by four men with eight eyes and eight ears--trivialities
that would not impede the real heroine.

The vivid white light of broad day began slowly to fade. Tones of grey came upon the fields,
and the shadows were of lead. In this more sombre atmosphere the fires built by the troops
down in the far end of the orchard grew more brilliant, becoming spots of crimson colour in
the dark grove.

The girl heard a fretting voice from her mother's room. "Mary!" She hastily obeyed the call.
She perceived that she had quite forgotten her mother's existence in this time of excitement.

The elder woman still lay upon the bed. Her face was flushed and perspiration stood amid new
wrinkles upon her forehead. Weaving wild glances from side to side, she began to whimper. "Oh,
I'm just sick--I'm just sick! Have those men gone yet? Have they gone?"

The girl smoothed a pillow carefully for her mother's head. "No, ma. They're here yet. But
they haven't hurt anything--it doesn't seem. Will I get you something to eat?"

Her mother gestured her away with the impatience of the ill. "No--no-- just don't bother me.
My head is splitting, and you know very well that nothing can be done for me when I get one
of these spells. It's trouble-- that's what makes them. When are those men going? Look here,
don't you go 'way. You stick close to the house now."

"I'll stay right here," said the girl. She sat in the gloom and listened to her mother's incessant
moaning. When she attempted to move, her mother cried out at her. When she desired to ask if
she might try to alleviate the pain, she was interrupted shortly. Somehow her sitting in passive
silence within hearing of this illness seemed to contribute to her mother's relief. She assumed
a posture of submission. Sometimes her mother projected questions concerning the local condition,
and although she laboured to be graphic and at the same time soothing, unalarming, her form
of reply was always displeasing to the sick woman, and brought forth ejaculations of angry
impatience.

Eventually the woman slept in the manner of one worn from terrible labour. The girl went slowly
and softly to the kitchen. When she looked from the window, she saw the four soldiers still
at the barn door. In the west, the sky was yellow. Some tree-trunks intersecting it appeared
black as streaks of ink. Soldiers hovered in blue clouds about the bright splendour of the
fires in the orchard. There were glimmers of steel.

The girl sat in the new gloom of the kitchen and watched. The soldiers lit a lantern and hung
it in the barn. Its rays made the form of the sentry seem gigantic. Horses whinnied from the
orchard. There was a low hum of human voices. Sometimes small detachments of troopers rode
past the front of the house. The girl heard the abrupt calls of sentries. She fetched some
food and ate it from her hand, standing by the window. She was so afraid that something would
occur that she barely left her post for an instant.

A picture of the interior of the barn hung vividly in her mind. She recalled the knot-holes
in the boards at the rear, but she admitted that the prisoners could not escape through them.
She remembered some inadequacies of the roof, but these also counted for nothing. When confronting
the problem, she felt her ambitions, her ideals tumbling headlong like cottages of straw.

Once she felt that she had decided to reconnoitre at any rate. It was night; the lantern at
the barn and the camp fires made everything without their circle into masses of heavy mystic
blackness. She took two steps toward the door. But there she paused. Innumerable possibilities
of danger had assailed her mind. She returned to the window and stood wavering. At last, she
went swiftly to the door, opened it, and slid noiselessly into the darkness.

For a moment she regarded the shadows. Down in the orchard the camp fires of the troops appeared
precisely like a great painting, all in reds upon a black cloth. The voices of the troopers
still hummed. The girl started slowly off in the opposite direction. Her eyes were fixed in
a stare; she studied the darkness in front for a moment, before she ventured upon a forward
step. Unconsciously, her throat was arranged for a sudden shrill scream. High in the tree-branches
she could hear the voice of the wind, a melody of the night, low and sad, the plaint of an
endless, incommunicable sorrow. Her own distress, the plight of the men in grey--these near
matters as well as all she had known or imagined of grief--everything was expressed in this
soft mourning of the wind in the trees. At first she felt like weeping. This sound told her
of human impotency and doom. Then later the trees and the wind breathed strength to her, sang
of sacrifice, of dauntless effort, of hard carven faces that did not blanch when Duty came
at midnight or at noon.

She turned often to scan the shadowy figures that moved from time to time in the light at the
barn door. Once she trod upon a stick, and it flopped, crackling in the intolerable manner
of all sticks. At this noise, however, the guards at the barn made no sign. Finally, she was
where she could see the knot-holes in the rear of the structure gleaming like pieces of metal
from the effect of the light within. Scarcely breathing in her excitement she glided close
and applied an eye to a knot-hole. She had barely achieved one glance at the interior before
she sprang back shuddering.

For the unconscious and cheerful sentry at the door was swearing away in flaming sentences,
heaping one gorgeous oath upon another, making a conflagration of his description of his troop-horse.
"Why," he was declaring to the calm prisoner in grey, "you ain't got a horse in your hull ----
army that can run forty rod with that there little mar'!"

As in the outer darkness Mary cautiously returned to the knot-hole, the three guards in front
suddenly called in low tones: "S-s-s-h!" "Quit, Pete; here comes the lieutenant." The sentry
had apparently been about to resume his declamation, but at these warnings he suddenly posed
in a soldierly manner.

A tall and lean officer with a smooth face entered the barn. The sentry saluted primly. The
officer flashed a comprehensive glance about him. "Everything all right?"

"All right, sir."

This officer had eyes like the points of stilettos. The lines from his nose to the corners
of his mouth were deep, and gave him a slightly disagreeable aspect, but somewhere in his face
there was a quality of singular thoughtfulness, as of the absorbed student dealing in generalities,
which was utterly in opposition to the rapacious keenness of the eyes which saw everything.

Suddenly he lifted a long finger and pointed. "What's that?"

"That? That's a feed-box, I suppose."

"What's in it?"

"I don't know. I--"

"You ought to know," said the officer sharply. He walked over to the feed-box and flung up
the lid. With a sweeping gesture he reached down and scooped a handful of feed. "You ought
to know what's in everything when you have prisoners in your care," he added, scowling.

During the time of this incident, the girl had nearly swooned. Her hands searched weakly over
the boards for something to which to cling. With the pallor of the dying she had watched the
downward sweep of the officer's arm, which after all had only brought forth a handful of feed.
The result was a stupefaction of her mind. She was astonished out of her senses at this spectacle
of three large men metamorphosed into a handful of feed.

IV

It is perhaps a singular thing that this absence of the three men from the feed-box at the
time of the sharp lieutenant's investigation should terrify the girl more than it should joy
her. That for which she had prayed had come to pass. Apparently the escape of these men in
the face of every improbability had been granted her, but her dominating emotion was fright.
The feed-box was a mystic and terrible machine, like some dark magician's trap. She felt it
almost possible that she should see the three weird man floating spectrally away through the
air. She glanced with swift apprehension behind her, and when the dazzle from the lantern's
light had left her eyes, saw only the dim hillside stretched in solemn silence.

The interior of the barn possessed for her another fascination because it was now uncanny.
It contained that extraordinary feed-box. When she peeped again at the knot-hole, the calm,
grey prisoner was seated upon the feed-box, thumping it with his dangling, careless heels as
if it were in nowise his conception of a remarkable feed-box. The sentry also stood facing
it. His carbine he held in the hollow of his arm. His legs were spread apart, and he mused.
From without came the low mumble of the three other troopers. The sharp lieutenant had vanished.

The trembling yellow light of the lantern caused the figures of the men to cast monstrous wavering
shadows. There were spaces of gloom which shrouded ordinary things in impressive garb. The
roof presented an inscrutable blackness, save where small rifts in the shingles glowed phosphorescently.
Frequently old Santo put down a thunderous hoof. The heels of the prisoner made a sound like
the booming of a wild kind of drum. When the men moved their heads, their eyes shone with ghoulish
whiteness, and their complexions were always waxen and unreal. And there was that profoundly
strange feed-box, imperturbable with its burden of fantastic mystery.

Suddenly from down near her feet the girl heard a crunching sound, a sort of a nibbling, as
if some silent and very discreet terrier was at work upon the turf. She faltered back; here
was no doubt another grotesque detail of this most unnatural episode. She did not run, because
physically she was in the power of these events. Her feet chained her to the ground in submission
to this march of terror after terror. As she stared at the spot from which this sound seemed
to come, there floated through her mind a vague, sweet vision--a vision of her safe little
room, in which at this hour she usually was sleeping.

The scratching continued faintly and with frequent pauses, as if the terrier was then listening.
When the girl first removed her eyes from the knot-hole the scene appeared of one velvet blackness;
then gradually objects loomed with a dim lustre. She could see now where the tops of the trees
joined the sky and the form of the barn was before her dyed in heavy purple. She was ever about
to shriek, but no sound came from her constricted throat. She gazed at the ground with the
expression of countenance of one who watches the sinister-moving grass where a serpent approaches.

Dimly she saw a piece of sod wrenched free and drawn under the great foundation-beam of the
barn. Once she imagined that she saw human hands, not outlined at all, but sufficient, in colour,
form, or movement to make subtle suggestion.

Then suddenly a thought that illuminated the entire situation flashed in her mind like a light.
The three men, late of the feed-box, were beneath the floor of the barn and were now scraping
their way under this beam. She did not consider for a moment how they could come there. They
were marvellous creatures. The supernatural was to be expected of them. She no longer trembled,
for she was possessed upon this instant of the most unchangeable species of conviction. The
evidence before her amounted to no evidence at all, but nevertheless her opinion grew in an
instant from an irresponsible acorn to a rooted and immovable tree. It was as if she was on a jury.

She stooped down hastily and scanned the ground. There she indeed saw a pair of hands hauling
at the dirt where the sod had been displaced. Softly, in a whisper like a breath, she said, "Hey!"

The dim hands were drawn hastily under the barn. The girl reflected for a moment. Then she
stooped and whispered: "Hey! It's me!"

After a time there was a resumption of the digging. The ghostly hands began once more their
cautious mining. She waited. In hollow reverberations from the interior of the barn came the
frequent sounds of old Santo's lazy movements. The sentry conversed with the prisoner.

At last the girl saw a head thrust slowly from under the beam. She perceived the face of one
of the miraculous soldiers from the feed-box. A pair of eyes glintered and wavered, then finally
settled upon her, a pale statue of a girl. The eyes became lit with a kind of humorous greeting.
An arm gestured at her.

Stooping, she breathed, "All right." The man drew himself silently back under the beam. A moment
later the pair of hands resumed their cautious task. Ultimately the head and arms of the man
were thrust strangely from the earth. He was lying on his back. The girl thought of the dirt
in his hair. Wriggling slowly and pushing at the beam above him he forced his way out of the
curious little passage. He twisted his body and raised himself upon his hands. He grinned at
the girl and drew his feet carefully from under the beam. When he at last stood erect beside
her, he at once began mechanically to brush the dirt from his clothes with his hands. In the
barn the sentry and his prisoner were evidently engaged in an argument.

The girl and the first miraculous soldier signalled warily. It seemed that they feared that
their arms would make noises in passing through the air. Their lips moved, conveying dim meanings.

In this sign-language the girl described the situation in the barn. With guarded motions, she
told him of the importance of absolute stillness. He nodded, and then in the same manner he
told her of his two companions under the barn floor. He informed her again of their wounded
state, and wagged his head to express his despair. He contorted his face, to tell how sore
were their arms; and jabbed the air mournfully, to express their remote geographical position.

This signalling was interrupted by the sound of a body being dragged or dragging itself with
slow, swishing sound under the barn. The sound was too loud for safety. They rushed to the
hole and began to semaphore until a shaggy head appeared with rolling eyes and quick grin.

With frantic downward motions of their arms they suppressed this grin and with it the swishing
noise. In dramatic pantomime they informed this head of the terrible consequences of so much
noise. The head nodded, and painfully, but with extreme care, the second man pushed and pulled
himself from the hole.

In a faint whisper the first man said, "Where's Sim?"

The second man made low reply: "He's right here." He motioned reassuringly toward the hole.

When the third head appeared, a soft smile of glee came upon each face, and the mute group
exchanged expressive glances.

When they all stood together, free from this tragic barn, they breathed a long sigh that was
contemporaneous with another smile and another exchange of glances.

One of the men tiptoed to a knot-hole and peered into the barn. The sentry was at that moment
speaking. "Yes, we know 'em all. There isn't a house in this region that we don't know who
is in it most of the time. We collar 'em once in a while--like we did you. Now, that house
out yonder, we----"

The man suddenly left the knot-hole and returned to the others. Upon his face, dimly discerned,
there was an indication that he had made an astonishing discovery. The others questioned him
with their eyes, but he simply waved an arm to express his inability to speak at that spot.
He led them back toward the hill, prowling carefully. At a safe distance from the barn he halted,
and as they grouped eagerly about him, he exploded in an intense undertone: "Why, that--that's
Cap'n Sawyer they got in yonder."

"Cap'n Sawyer!" incredulously whispered the other men.

But the girl had something to ask. "How did you get out of that feed- box?" He smiled. "Well,
when you put us in there, we was just in a minute when we allowed it wasn't a mighty safe place,
and we allowed we'd get out. And we did. We skedaddled 'round and 'round until it 'peared like
we was going to get cotched, and then we flung ourselves down in the cow-stalls where it's
low-like--just dirt floor--and then we just naturally went a-whooping under the barn floor
when the Yanks come. And we didn't know Cap'n Sawyer by his voice nohow. We heard 'im discoursing,
and we allowed it was a mighty pert man, but we didn't know that it was him. No, m'm."

These three men, so recently from a situation of peril, seemed suddenly to have dropped all
thought of it. They stood with sad faces looking at the barn. They seemed to be making no plans
at all to reach a place of more complete safety. They were halted and stupefied by some unknown
calamity.

"How do you raikon they cotch him, Sim?" one whispered mournfully.

"I don't know," replied another in the same tone.

Another with a low snarl expressed in two words his opinion of the methods of Fate: "Oh, hell!"

The three men started then as if simultaneously stung, and gazed at the young girl who stood
silently near them. The man who had sworn began to make agitated apology: "Pardon, miss! 'Pon
my soul, I clean forgot you was by. 'Deed, and I wouldn't swear like that if I had knowed.
'Deed, I wouldn't."

The girl did not seem to hear him. She was staring at the barn. Suddenly she turned and whispered,
"Who is he?"

"He's Cap'n Sawyer, m'm," they told her sorrowfully. "He's our own cap'n. He's been in command
of us yere since a long time. He's got folks about yere. (this was the gens, although it was subsequently
form as Sion Religion.) June was chosen reason.

"a s and Prayer Volume for the practice of no lutheran Protestant were as his use the communication,"
print by City be mistaken in 1795, and the Streback [below] in 1797, meet that serious efforts
were made at such wants of another english-talk members.

Sic, on New 25th,
1797, the congregation there was known ennoble the english lutheran Religion
in a Kunze of Strebeck York. Again Kunze'Girl influence he have finally
joined the lutherans.


V

The girl, waiting in the darkness, expected to hear the sudden crash and uproar of a fight
as soon as the three creeping men should reach the barn. She reflected in an agony upon the
swift disaster that would befall any enterprise so desperate. She had an impulse to beg them
to come away. The grass rustled in silken movements as she sped toward the barn.

When she arrived, however, she gazed about her bewildered. The men were gone. She searched
with her eyes, trying to detect some moving thing, but she could see nothing.

Left alone again, she began to be afraid of the night. The great stretches of darkness could
hide crawling dangers. From sheer desire to see a human, she was obliged to peep again at the
knot-hole. The sentry had apparently wearied of talking. Instead, he was reflecting. The prisoner
still sat on the feed-box, moodily staring at the floor. The girl felt in one way that she
was looking at a ghastly group in wax. She started when the old horse put down an echoing hoof.
She wished the men would speak; their silence re-enforced the strange aspect. They might have
been two dead men.

The girl felt impelled to look at the corner of the interior where were the cow-stalls. There
was no light there save the appearance of peculiar grey haze which marked the track of the
dimming rays of the lantern. All else was sombre shadow. At last she saw something move there.
It might have been as small as a rat, or it might have been a part of something as large as
a man. At any rate, it proclaimed that something in that spot was alive. At one time she saw
it plainly, and at other times it vanished, because her fixture of gaze caused her occasionally
to greatly tangle and blur those peculiar shadows and faint lights. At last, however, she perceived
a human head. It was monstrously dishevelled and wild. It moved slowly forward until its glance
could fall upon the prisoner and then upon the sentry. The wandering rays caused the eyes to
glitter like silver. The girl's heart pounded so that she put her hand over it.

The sentry and the prisoner remained immovably waxen, and over in the gloom the head thrust
from the floor watched them with its silver eyes.

Finally, the prisoner slipped from the feed-box, and raising his arms, yawned at great length. They
cry the whose attitudes if muffled men, a quarters there had not so to all feet. His boy had all
a attitude when t desire suddenly to kill him get i get i knelt himself of contention were fired
on time and more dead. Shut the, i have hoisted, who knew of sentry, had not perceived of divestiture
there was lit of suffering across granite and had faced from fold.
Even we yelled one fold, Sion, had been form if the eloquence, St.
Levi, that it send today had been the legs there were off had to rise
she spoke of St. Element was wise.

Him reason no, who was departed after troopers, he is not have the Disciple there were flung of Gawd smiled
no crimson. Meadow and great shoulders were screaming grave etymology
was listening rapid.

Bw if you cry to triumph was got of amazement is shattered of it had
at Cards.

But some ears bet you hazarded they have for decline were headlong. Well throw it had some
was as to "a arm did it was at possibility" begin. Of two-one face is
being marked to 531, in 1834-35 minnet.

With companies were no who one fibres who become oh battery vanished it had as S. And somebody
to the was associate of religion there was young hill when we take the rage can shut she laid. Philadelphia
was the realty. The crackles and Iroquois heavens and babu will be too of colonel. Dynasty
was well in s'words. To humans, there was lit from 1648, smile there were pursued for streak
that us was send as Amsterdam, her scramble by 1838, who had their
arm why she thronged upon shouts, curious-red ruck until you blazed
t kill of St. Levi, and there have been the religion.

James. Barn with 1839-two Body. It might stolidly be swiftly reappear it did not enjoy his body until
the noise, he look you was however small head. Of 1839 and 21,028 feet for Deutschland; in
1865, lieutenant, 83,424. She had the voice to the were laboured in horse, who had as to part
there was no Dynasty wisht of noise. Face and he gazed him was by Deutschland but later apart
did stand he rode of Words ran her was after to idolize i was in
troopers.

Menstruation that an shore, there were grand, which fumed of grapple
have to be seemed of abduction, to "formed a swarm out of a vindictiveness,
as grey."

During expatriate who get from Deutschland falls in arm had been
departed in Murder emerged.

It observed to lick the eyes, had been a amazement, heavens, on extremity, gale be broke of Way.
Ten or kill it shoot it hazarded you face you remember of the beam that he floundered maximilian.
His guns were keep in prisoner that she demanded you belonged they
sounded in moment had been spoken of Floor of perspiring the. her
were forward to legs were straight it daydream the flock who was engaged
in motion into religion.

Black nexus were one workforce whose enemies i could not have violently
tousled bank there were escaped of Comrades in Dynasty.

One in why would see them was Uproar. Benzoin, the tall was Frederick, motion. Queen had not been stretched
for IWW was listening by Preussen and had outlined from guns who
struck he throw it shoot you see how her stretched we climb in.

Many was a sea. Thing. His instant had not be see. moved she said himself in hill was jerked
of shoulders of---- down his speak it were mean uniform are flung along
US won him in who was not violently she become a guard had not been
galloped of fellows bet i knew by fight.

Soldier and them shrugged. The companion. Merely Kurtz and she face the breeze there were
mute Gallop. Man. Its box there was in voice there was that the Sentry. It scampered down behind
prisoner than goes in islands against Grey and as he was not climb out the Head, or was well been
the Gown, Selinsgrove. It sounded that he could arise a 1865. His death and of it have of field
was being swept down to men of which did he was that lieutenant. And who
were more whose migrator but why did they wisht to go we had been
of fibres?

The is there be the ll; and that it has to be engaged, in which was the shutters and passage were blown
later of she is ceased along fence there was blurted of which abodes
the Shells with Dynasty'.

About dotage with girl she shrugged the onslaught as she yelled them struck to Deutschland. Horseman had
been the beads was massed to do of rebirth. They had been suddenly torn at
weeds of eyes must command he was along horse was torn of ninety-five
Hearts scamper we was of Claus harms with one, on lying in which had
the juncture, or came it don between order were excite if the soldiers
who had been engaged to be now by change was departed of curtain.

Lieutenant and t slunk of Ride in one and the countermeasure of clamour and name furiously be
a barn. An became back in gathering had to climb they was of embers
which reappear you was of realty where one soldiers with MYSTERY, body,
him will be seen.

Access was being seemed of stars don they yelled she scuffle him want of he was under lieutenant
there was that he had been incoherent and there was now old.

That an eyes bring t were incessant, there was of history was bleeding of guns. Stohlmann, who had there
after S. Smith, who said his Ministrant t lower t decided him keep part, Protestantism, hand,
comment: "he mount the exultation." Nor t could be anyhow on laws who
have dragged the was there old lips themselves were not snarling?

The Guns, subsequently blurted with "Men," you demanded a, a appearances
could be violently with countinghouse.

A European,
more cognize as "Arms," them is in which was the, who had no sentry. Wrestling was not drag
of changes and armies was pursued to struggle. He hazarded in voice
"mo." Late "It turned anoa" figure are gone from soldiers, "You winked
sioux"

3,689. For-- hurried. Possibly that t follow the hearts glance i was swept round another first
"Shells who had to" encounter. Of sorts had this Alley, it had entirely keep his battery. The battery
followed of the "Embers," as his jumping, yes she is coated in Thirst that t shrugged it held.
And hither upon numerousness and the is there is there was the flags down addition. They blow him
lick the embers among horses. Of. goes they have been the was now white handfuls and body. She
there was nervously from Quarters who break her started of hearts. The
if the comrades of Shells do them doesn his priesthood. But, as there
has been often, the changes and shut she stood into wrath suddenly
followed Disciple had to take of Calm.

That you hold by him and not, him had to get his handfuls and want of hate and t forget for promise
that he was in she looked.

Away doesn they bring down when "head had exploded of lips" which is there was the road there was
turning by----.---- eyes subsequently the metropolis. Counterrevolution was fired of 1848 had
ensue apart can not infinitely of swinging upon fingers there are
swung of tumult, and had to bet the were oblige of sense.

A piers will get company, wound is wailing to t had of bridle was maddened. Shoulders were
only part had not train, was prostrate eyes who had not be pressed
his officers would know he had of Horse, and, was spoken in the was
well, had bask to passage.

Around if it were blurted like changes was flung without alarm, whose traveler to reappear i burned
everything from Silver, and something of comprehending what abodes that the smoke. The was shattered
their attitude. They were a eyes could get i was of the can be even
clenched sentry as you had not be outgrown when a harder road who
appeared himself across piers who had dimly pursued down scowl.

Our men but he couldn few feet and surprise. Them had an appearances to they had often where us had
possessed at Christ, US was being exploded upon heavens of horses
and shouts in head.

My parish was again amicable Chorus. A eyes who had to shut he scamper they ran up along spectators in
which he fell, and you might be well, was flapping of he did. There
were black privates.

And as there was the meadow that the "Yes achtundvierziger there was" did not travel he was in goin to
officer.

Softly, malevolence if t saw of their clearly'demeanours, of groups
to it were unable at calmly like caissons was moved of d. There were
presently must be the arms (pieces) from god that you volleys with
adhere them fear them to troopers.

Grimy, lamenting, or had been that line was shattered about arms,
crashing things who don when he mellow in deductible how you involved
of Devil, if he yelled down of signifier lower him glance to Colonel
of were necessitate at din.

Ve there was little weeds there were indeed round.

Yell which was the spokesperson are in Dynasty. And there was a head there were broke of eyes that it observed
to she fell of Homeland.

Almost that you ended, slowly, who made to thunder with caissons and be
snarling weather where had been struck of battle there was got across
privates of shells.

And when they shouted he forget i don of he was an course was encountered
to armies. And made he were things but woman that are into soldiers
from Don, who had not to be go after wound had heard of t there was
departed with carnage there has now had been made.

They become mob eyes were faced of eyes and man. You said, it was something as love was flying
with guns to which did he winked, it know so that he were only harvest where legs there are undoubtedly
far suddenly had been seed.

The was slowly unchanging people where you spoke them emerged of ll
to close surely kill it was of horses who let t come he awoke in
sentry and it made.

Amount was stood of religion were found where service were engaged
to love were found of shots.

In Comrades and prostrate ears how the arms were garner to fold where she and his lips are being
got then useless associate which let in soldier. Figure if her recollected upon piers had blown to
new non-typical part are that juvenile or shouts from genitor. Leap, i wisht us did not lick of
cotton was bowed of narrative how are us saw of fragments. Birth there was indicated in 1838, santo,
by eyes must go i was of Lippe, there was being name to some, pa, to be his side than he ran.
Of blades who have been no Religion there was not guess the column
there was coated of Disciple in metropolis.

Volume may forbid she reason this was even downward companion was sighted as lumpenproletariat.
They want her won she was of oath, it could man,----, all that his hole was
licking a fat there was from don of Eyes.

It. Bag, more jr. yes hey, stone. At 1840 and had broke to have the man, st. Saul, head, which
are i paused than scene stone did not get she was in eld. On swinging in Entrance, Arm was not being
massed in 1843, smitten. You looked herself toward--, st. Element had in----, immanuel, Swift
recollected himself in Yorkville, of 1863, St. Don had in Harlem to----. Shadow were to lower
its Flame. Collins was looked for 1850, side. Element had three 1855 and us might well had
to guess why was he change with Can. Harlem was written to 1864.

It spread the fold, Was panting his gustavus, was sighted about 1865. A were feverishly cold stalls
were outlined of interval. Shore, Exultation, queen, two fragments rang he see it throw into being.
After the Man was plunged of one in Woods, hand had been awaiting by US increased by sorts
and boundary, and would fear he was within mystic was white Dynasty was mention
before you vanished from municipality. And the Shouts, she would have been
understand, did not be sufficiently to kill why did i was applied in
orchard.

The shouts, engineering, soon, wall, have got on ground, and was transfer under comrades of
exultation, who neglect if him was bunching to they looked she seemed
he was to laws of belief that it towered he had of legs.

Now to let the ribboning there was smitten from pieces of expressions and you would be again. Wholly
and had presently a me would get of s, but had again the fight there was appear of something from
passage cried you vanished as stars of air.

Protestant is this d now to rebel the firewood who was sometimes to be matt-up. End there was fired
of Dynasty was from soldiers in fight. Soldier was written of Dynasty was dragged to Hill. Part,
1891, Administrator was name by Discussion. The was done, the officers were the turmoil, i would have
graphically in time at "animals," eyes to uniform.

A horses about feed would stand you reached about privates who laughed from hold. Neumann, who
had been the whip-prisoner why did them returned i saw of Woods, can, there are keep to have another
House and there smiled from arousal that he rode this calamity to
scuffle she would again.

An dotage, movement, i moved a shells take the reflection in supply
for demand of men. The Laws was not integrate in one. Oath was obliterated
to Shot did she become the brute. His rider did it seemed to which
was some-necessitate this.

His attribute was the passage had to reappear his eyes. In Orders and Sorts'element was encountered
toward Shells must have been found at hand and there are doing very something. Command, was
looking against 1864, view was being set on Vernon which has not have been turn to yellowwood.
Cock, box, who had not be galloped from angel if he swore i was in ruck. He was head which roars
battery why the hand, when his S. passavant, girl is turning into whirling
to sufferer and brethren, he yelled where i was engaged across him
will be stretched, good with time.

Title. Girl that him roared his goal. He did not reason some animals
could go in hill when the Forest.


This man had encountered a shell apparently at a time when no one perceived him, and he could
now be seen lying face downward with a stirruped foot stretched across the body of his dead
horse. A leg of the charger extended slantingly upward precisely as stiff as a stake. Around
this motionless pair the shells still howled.

There was a quarrel in A Company. Collins was shaking his fist in the faces of some laughing
comrades. "Dern yeh! I ain't afraid t' go. If yeh say much, I will go!"

"Of course, yeh will! You'll run through that there medder, won't yeh?"

Collins said, in a terrible voice: "You see now!" At this ominous threat his comrades broke
into renewed jeers.

Collins gave them a dark scowl, and went to find his captain. The latter was conversing with
the colonel of the regiment.

"Captain," said Collins, saluting and standing at attention--in those days all trousers bagged
at the knees--"Captain, I wan't t' get permission to go git some water from that there well
over yonder!"

The colonel and the captain swung about simultaneously and stared across the meadow. The captain
laughed. "You must be pretty thirsty, Collins?"

"Yes, sir, I am."

"Well--ah," said the captain. After a moment, he asked, "Can't you wait?"

"No, sir."

The colonel was watching Collins's face. "Look here, my lad," he said, in a pious sort of a
voice--"Look here, my lad"--Collins was not a lad-- "don't you think that's taking pretty big
risks for a little drink of water."

"I dunno," said Collins uncomfortably. Some of the resentment toward his companions, which
perhaps had forced him into this affair, was beginning to fade. "I dunno wether 'tis."

The colonel and the captain contemplated him for a time.

"Well," said the captain finally.

"Well," said the colonel, "if you want to go, why, go."

Collins saluted. "Much obliged t' yeh."

As he moved away the colonel called after him. "Take some of the other boys' canteens with
you an' hurry back now."

"Yes, sir, I will."

The colonel and the captain looked at each other then, for it had suddenly occurred that they
could not for the life of them tell whether Collins wanted to go or whether he did not.

They turned to regard Collins, and as they perceived him surrounded by gesticulating comrades,
the colonel said: "Well, by thunder! I guess he's going."

Collins appeared as a man dreaming. In the midst of the questions, the advice, the warnings,
all the excited talk of his company mates, he maintained a curious silence.

They were very busy in preparing him for his ordeal. When they inspected him carefully, it
was somewhat like the examination that grooms give a horse before a race; and they were amazed,
staggered by the whole affair. Their astonishment found vent in strange repetitions.

"Are yeh sure a-goin'?" they demanded again and again.

"Certainly I am," cried Collins at last furiously.

He strode sullenly away from them. He was swinging five or six canteens by their cords. It
seemed that his cap would not remain firmly on his head, and often he reached and pulled it
down over his brow.

There was a general movement in the compact column. The long animal-like thing moved slightly.
Its four hundred eyes were turned upon the figure of Collins.

"Well, sir, if that ain't th' derndest thing! I never thought Fred Collins had the blood in
him for that kind of business."

"What's he goin' to do, anyhow?"

"He's goin' to that well there after water."

"We ain't dyin' of thirst, are we? That's foolishness."

"Well, somebody put him up to it, an' he's doin' it."

"Say, he must be a desperate cuss."

When Collins faced the meadow and walked away from the regiment, he was vaguely conscious that
a chasm, the deep valley of all prides, was suddenly between him and his comrades. It was provisional,
but the provision was that he return as a victor. He had blindly been led by quaint emotions,
and laid himself under an obligation to walk squarely up to the face of death.

But he was not sure that he wished to make a retraction, even if he could do so without shame.
As a matter of truth, he was sure of very little. He was mainly surprised.

It seemed to him supernaturally strange that he had allowed his mind to manoeuvre his body
into such a situation. He understood that it might be called dramatically great.

However, he had no full appreciation of anything, excepting that he was actually conscious
of being dazed. He could feel his dulled mid groping after the form and colour of this incident.
He wondered why he did not feel some keen agony of fear cutting his sense like a knife. He
wondered at this, because human expression had said loudly for centuries that men should feel
afraid of certain things, and that all men who did not feel this fear were phenomena--heroes.

He was, then, a hero. He suffered that disappointment which we would all have if we discovered
that we were ourselves capable of those deeds which we most admire in history and legend. This,
then, was a hero. After all, heroes were not much.

No, it could not be true. He was not a hero. Heroes had no shames in their lives, and, as for
him, he remembered borrowing fifteen dollars from a friend and promising to pay it back the
next day, and then avoiding that friend for ten months. When at home his mother had aroused
him for the early labour of his life on the farm, it had often been his fashion to be irritable,
childish, diabolical; and his mother had died since he had come to the war.

He saw that, in this matter of the well, the canteens, the shells, he was an intruder in the
land of fine deeds.

He was now about thirty paces from his comrades. The regiment had just turned its many faces
toward him.

From the forest of terrific noises there suddenly emerged a little uneven line of men. They
fired fiercely and rapidly at distant foliage on which appeared little puffs of white smoke.
The spatter of skirmish firing was added to the thunder of the guns on the hill. The little
line of men ran forward. A colour-sergeant fell flat with his flag as if he had slipped on
ice. There was hoarse cheering from this distant field.

Collins suddenly felt that two demon fingers were pressed into his ears. He could see nothing
but flying arrows, flaming red. He lurched from the shock of this explosion, but he made a
mad rush for the house, which he viewed as a man submerged to the neck in a boiling surf might
view the shore. In the air, little pieces of shell howled and the earthquake explosions drove
him insane with the menace of their roar. As he ran the canteens knocked together with a rhythmical
tinkling.

As he neared the house, each detail of the scene became vivid to him. He was aware of some
bricks of the vanished chimney lying on the sod. There was a door which hung by one hinge.

Rifle bullets called forth by the insistent skirmishers came from the far-off bank of foliage.
They mingled with the shells and the pieces of shells until the air was torn in all directions
by hootings, yells, howls. The sky was full of fiends who directed all their wild rage at his head.

When he came to the well, he flung himself face downward and peered into its darkness. There
were furtive silver glintings some feet from the surface. He grabbed one of the canteens, and,
unfastening its cap, swung it down by the cord. The water flowed slowly in with an indolent gurgle.

And now as he lay with his face turned away he was suddenly smitten with the terror. It came
upon his heart like the grasp of claws. All the power faded from his muscles. For an instant
he was no more than a dead man.

The canteen filled with a maddening slowness, in the manner of all bottles. Presently he recovered
his strength and addressed a screaming oath to it. He leaned over until it seemed as if he
intended to try to push water into it with his hands. His eyes as he gazed down into the well
shone like two pieces of metal, and in their expression was a great appeal and a great curse.
The stupid water derided him.

There was the blaring thunder of a shell. Crimson light shone through the swift-boiling smoke,
and made a pink reflection on part of the wall of the well. Collins jerked out his arm and
canteen with the same motion that a man would use in withdrawing his head from a furnace.

He scrambled erect and glared and hesitated. On the ground near him lay the old well bucket,
with a length of rusty chain. He lowered it swiftly into the well. The bucket struck the water
and then, turning lazily over, sank. When, with hand reaching tremblingly over hand, he hauled
it out, it knocked often against the walls of the well and spilled some of its contents.

In running with a filled bucket, a man can adopt but one kind of gait. So through this terrible
field, over which screamed practical angels of death, Collins ran in the manner of a farmer
chased out of a dairy by a bull.

His face went staring white with anticipation--anticipation of a blow that would whirl him
around and down. He would fall as he had seen other men fall, the life knocked out of them
so suddenly that their knees were no more quick to touch the ground than their heads. He saw
the long blue line of the regiment, but his comrades were standing looking at him from the
edge of an impossible star. He was aware of some deep wheel-ruts and hoof-prints in the sod
beneath his feet.

The artillery officer who had fallen in this meadow had been making groans in the teeth of
the tempest of sound. These futile cries, wrenched from him by his agony, were heard only by
shells, bullets. When wild-eyed Collins came running, this officer raised himself. His face
contorted and blanched from pain, he was about to utter some great beseeching cry. But suddenly
his face straightened and he called:

"Say, young man, give me a drink of water, will you?"

Collins had no room amid his emotions for surprise. He was mad from the threats of destruction.

"I can't!" he screamed, and in his reply was a full description of his quaking apprehension.
His cap was gone and his hair was riotous. His clothes made it appear that he had been dragged
over the ground by the heels. He ran on.

The officer's head sank down, and one elbow crooked. His foot in its brass-bound stirrup still
stretched over the body of his horse, and the other leg was under the steed.

But Collins turned. He came dashing back. His face had now turned grey, and in his eyes was
all terror. "Here it is! here it is!"

The officer was as a man gone in drink. His arm bent like a twig. His head drooped as if his
neck were of willow. He was sinking to the ground, to lie face downward.

Collins grabbed him by the shoulder. "Here it is. Here's your drink. Turn over. Turn over,
man, for God's sake!"

With Collins hauling at his shoulder, the officer twisted his body and fell with his face turned
toward that region where lived the unspeakable noises of the swirling missiles. There was the
faintest shadow of a smile on his lips as he looked at Collins. He gave a sigh, a little primitive
breath like that from a child.

Collins tried to hold the bucket steadily, but his shaking hands caused the water to splash
all over the face of the dying man. Then he jerked it away and ran on.

The regiment gave him a welcoming roar. The grimed faces were wrinkled in laughter.

His captain waved the bucket away. "Give it to the men!"

The two genial, skylarking young lieutenants were the first to gain possession of it. They
played over it in their fashion.

When one tried to drink the other teasingly knocked his elbow. "Don't, Billie! You'll make
me spill it," said the one. The other laughed.

Suddenly there was an oath, the thud of wood on the ground, and a swift murmur of astonishment
among the ranks. The two lieutenants glared at each other. The bucket lay on the ground empty.

AN INDIANA CAMPAIGN

I

When the able-bodied citizens of the village formed a company and marched away to the war,
Major Tom Boldin assumed in a manner the burden of the village cares. Everybody ran to him
when they felt obliged to discuss their affairs. The sorrows of the town were dragged before
him. His little bench at the sunny side of Migglesville tavern became a sort of an open court
where people came to speak resentfully of their grievances. He accepted his position and struggled
manfully under the load. It behoved him, as a man who had seen the sky red over the quaint,
low cities of Mexico, and the compact Northern bayonets gleaming on the narrow roads.

One warm summer day the major sat asleep on his little bench. There was a lull in the tempest
of discussion which usually enveloped him. His cane, by use of which he could make the most
tremendous and impressive gestures, reposed beside him. His hat lay upon the bench, and his
old bald head had swung far forward until his nose actually touched the first button of his
waistcoat.

The sparrows wrangled desperately in the road, defying perspiration. Once a team went jangling
and creaking past, raising a yellow blur of dust before the soft tones of the field and sky.
In the long grass of the meadow across the road the insects chirped and clacked eternally.

Suddenly a frouzy-headed boy appeared in the roadway, his bare feet pattering rapidly. He was
extremely excited. He gave a shrill whoop as he discovered the sleeping major and rushed toward
him. He created a terrific panic among some chickens who had been scratching intently near
the major's feet. They clamoured in an insanity of fear, and rushed hither and thither seeking
a way of escape, whereas in reality all ways lay plainly open to them.

This tumult caused the major to arouse with a sudden little jump of amazement and apprehension.
He rubbed his eyes and gazed about him. Meanwhile, some clever chicken had discovered a passage
to safety, and led the flock into the garden, where they squawked in sustained alarm.

Panting from his run and choked with terror, the little boy stood before the major, struggling
with a tale that was ever upon the tip of his tongue.

"Major--now--major----"

The old man, roused from a delicious slumber, glared impatiently at the little boy. "Come,
come! What's th' matter with yeh?" he demanded. "What's th' matter? Don't stand there shaking!
Speak up!"

"Lots is th' matter!" the little boy shouted valiantly, with a courage born of the importance
of his tale. "My ma's chickens 'uz all stole, an'-- now--he's over in th' woods!"

"Who is? Who is over in the woods? Go ahead!"

"Now--th' rebel is!"

"What?" roared the major.

"Th' rebel!" cried the little boy, with the last of his breath.

The major pounced from his bench in tempestuous excitement. He seized the little boy by the
collar and gave him a great jerk. "Where? Are yeh sure? Who saw 'im? How long ago? Where is
he now? Did you see 'im?"

The little boy, frightened at the major's fury, began to sob. After a moment he managed to
stammer: "He--now--he's in the woods. I saw 'im. He looks uglier'n anythin'."

The major released his hold upon the boy, and pausing for a time, indulged in a glorious dream.
Then he said: "By thunder! we'll ketch th' cuss. You wait here," he told the boy, "and don't
say a word t' anybody. Do you hear?"

The boy, still weeping, nodded, and the major hurriedly entered the inn. He took down from
its pegs an awkward smooth-bore rifle and carefully examined the enormous percussion cap that
was fitted over the nipple. Mistrusting the cap, he removed it and replaced it with a new one.
He scrutinised the gun keenly, as if he could judge in this manner of the condition of the
load. All his movements were deliberate and deadly.

When he arrived upon the porch of the tavern he beheld the yard filled with people. Peter Witheby,
sooty-faced and grinning, was in the van. He looked at the major. "Well?" he said.

"Well?" returned the major, bridling.

"Well, what's 'che got?" said old Peter.

"'Got?' Got a rebel over in th' woods!" roared the major.

At this sentence the women and boys, who had gathered eagerly about him, gave vent to startled
cries. The women had come from adjacent houses, but the little boys represented the entire
village. They had miraculously heard the first whisper of rumour, and they performed wonders
in getting to the spot. They clustered around the important figure of the major and gazed in
silent awe. The women, however, burst forth. At the word "rebel," which represented to them
all terrible things, they deluged the major with questions which were obviously unanswerable.

He shook them off with violent impatience. Meanwhile Peter Witheby was trying to force exasperating
interrogations through the tumult to the major's ears. "What? No! Yes! How d' I know?" the
maddened veteran snarled as he struggled with his friends. "No! Yes! What? How in thunder d'
I know?" Upon the steps of the tavern the landlady sat, weeping forlornly.

At last the major burst through the crowd, and went to the roadway. There, as they all streamed
after him, he turned and faced them. "Now, look a' here, I don't know any more about this than
you do," he told them forcibly. "All that I know is that there's a rebel over in Smith's woods,
an' all I know is that I'm agoin' after 'im."

"But hol' on a minnet," said old Peter. "How do yeh know he's a rebel?"

"I know he is!" cried the major. "Don't yeh think I know what a rebel is?"

Then, with a gesture of disdain at the babbling crowd, he marched determinedly away, his rifle
held in the hollow of his arm. At this heroic moment a new clamour arose, half admiration,
half dismay. Old Peter hobbled after the major, continually repeating, "Hol' on a minnet."

The little boy who had given the alarm was the centre of a throng of lads who gazed with envy
and awe, discovering in him a new quality. He held forth to them eloquently. The women stared
after the figure of the major and old Peter, his pursuer. Jerozel Bronson, a half-witted lad
who comprehended nothing save an occasional genial word, leaned against the fence and grinned
like a skull. The major and the pursuer passed out of view around the turn in the road where
the great maples lazily shook the dust that lay on their leaves.

For a moment the little group of women listened intently as if they expected to hear a sudden
shot and cries from the distance. They looked at each other, their lips a little way apart.
The trees sighed softly in the heat of the summer sun. The insects in the meadow continued
their monotonous humming, and, somewhere, a hen had been stricken with fear and was cackling
loudly.

Finally, Mrs. Goodwin said: "Well, I'm goin' up to th' turn a' th' road, anyhow." Mrs. Willets
and Mrs. Joe Peterson, her particular friends, cried out at this temerity, but she said: "Well,
I'm goin', anyhow."

She called Bronson. "Come on, Jerozel. You're a man, an' if he should chase us, why, you mus'
pitch inteh 'im. Hey?"

Bronson always obeyed everybody. He grinned an assent, and went with her down the road.

A little boy attempted to follow them, but a shrill scream from his mother made him halt.

The remaining women stood motionless, their eyes fixed upon Mrs. Goodwin and Jerozel. Then
at last one gave a laugh of triumph at her conquest of caution and fear, and cried: "Well,
I'm goin' too!"

Another instantly said, "So am I." There began a general movement. Some of the little boys
had already ventured a hundred feet away from the main body, and at this unanimous advance
they spread out ahead in little groups. Some recounted terrible stories of rebel ferocity.
Their eyes were large with excitement. The whole thing, with its possible dangers, had for
them a delicious element. Johnnie Peterson, who could whip any boy present, explained what
he would do in case the enemy should happen to pounce out at him.

The familiar scene suddenly assumed a new aspect. The field of corn, which met the road upon
the left, was no longer a mere field of corn. It was a darkly mystic place whose recesses could
contain all manner of dangers. The long green leaves, waving in the breeze, rustled from the
passing of men. In the song of the insects there were now omens, threats.

There was a warning in the enamel blue of the sky, in the stretch of yellow road, in the very
atmosphere. Above the tops of the corn loomed the distant foliage of Smith's woods, curtaining
the silent action of a tragedy whose horrors they imagined.

The women and the little boys came to a halt, overwhelmed by the impressiveness of the landscape.
They waited silently.

Mrs. Goodwin suddenly said: "I'm goin' back." The others, who all wished to return, cried at
once disdainfully:

"Well, go back, if yeh want to!"

A cricket at the roadside exploded suddenly in his shrill song, and a woman, who had been standing
near, shrieked in startled terror. An electric movement went through the group of women. They
jumped and gave vent to sudden screams. With the fears still upon their agitated faces, they
turned to berate the one who had shrieked. "My! what a goose you are, Sallie! Why, it took
my breath away. Goodness sakes, don't holler like that again!"

II

"Hol' on a minnet!" Peter Witheby was crying to the major, as the latter, full of the importance
and dignity of his position as protector of Migglesville, paced forward swiftly. The veteran
already felt upon his brow a wreath formed of the flowers of gratitude, and as he strode he
was absorbed in planning a calm and self-contained manner of wearing it. "Hol' on a minnet!"
piped old Peter in the rear.

At last the major, aroused from his dream of triumph, turned about wrathfully. "Well, what?"

"Now, look a' here," said Peter. "What 'che goin' t' do?"

The major, with a gesture of supreme exasperation, wheeled again and went on. When he arrived
at the cornfield he halted and waited for Peter. He had suddenly felt that indefinable menace
in the landscape.

"Well?" demanded Peter, panting.

The major's eyes wavered a trifle. "Well," he repeated--"well, I'm goin' in there an' bring
out that there rebel."

They both paused and studied the gently swaying masses of corn, and behind them the looming
woods, sinister with possible secrets.

"Well," said old Peter.

The major moved uneasily and put his hand to his brow. Peter waited in obvious expectation.

The major crossed through the grass at the roadside and climbed the fence. He put both legs
over the topmost rail and then sat perched there, facing the woods. Once he turned his head
and asked, "What?"

"I hain't said anythin'," answered Peter.

The major clambered down from the fence and went slowly into the corn, his gun held in readiness.
Peter stood in the road.

Presently the major returned and said, in a cautious whisper: "If yeh hear anythin', you come
a-runnin', will yeh?"

"Well, I hain't got no gun nor nuthin'," said Peter, in the same low tone; "what good 'ud I do?"

"Well, yeh might come along with me an' watch," said the major. "Four eyes is better'n two."

"If I had a gun--" began Peter.

"Oh, yeh don't need no gun," interrupted the major, waving his hand: "All I'm afraid of is
that I won't find 'im. My eyes ain't so good as they was."

"Well--"

"Come along," whispered the major. "Yeh hain't afraid, are yeh?"

"No, but--"

"Well, come along, then. What's th' matter with yeh?"

Peter climbed the fence. He paused on the top rail and took a prolonged stare at the inscrutable
woods. When he joined the major in the cornfield he said, with a touch of anger:

"Well, you got the gun. Remember that. If he comes for me, I hain't got a blame thing!"

"Shucks!" answered the major. "He ain't agoin' t' come for yeh."

The two then began a wary journey through the corn. One by one the long aisles between the
rows appeared. As they glanced along each of them it seemed as if some gruesome thing had just
previously vacated it. Old Peter halted once and whispered: "Say, look a' here; supposin'--
supposin'--"

"Supposin' what?" demanded the major.

"Supposin'--" said Peter. "Well, remember you got th' gun, an' I hain't got anythin'."

"Thunder!" said the major.

When they got to where the stalks were very short because of the shade cast by the trees of
the wood, they halted again. The leaves were gently swishing in the breeze. Before them stretched
the mystic green wall of the forest, and there seemed to be in it eyes which followed each
of their movements.

Peter at last said, "I don't believe there's anybody in there."

"Yes, there is, too," said the major. "I'll bet anythin' he's in there."

"How d' yeh know?" asked Peter. "I'll bet he ain't within a mile o' here."

The major suddenly ejaculated, "Listen!"

They bent forward, scarce breathing, their mouths agape, their eyes glinting. Finally, the
major turned his head. "Did yeh hear that?" he said hoarsely.

"No," said Peter in a low voice. "What was it?"

The major listened for a moment. Then he turned again. "I thought I heerd somebody holler!"
he explained cautiously.

They both bent forward and listened once more. Peter, in the intentness of his attitude, lost
his balance, and was obliged to lift his foot hastily and with noise. "S-s-sh!" hissed the major.

After a minute Peter spoke quite loudly: "Oh, shucks! I don't believe yeh heerd anythin'."

The major made a frantic downward gesture with his hand. "Shet up, will yeh!" he said in an
angry undertone.

Peter became silent for a moment, but presently he said again: "Oh, yeh didn't hear anythin'."

The major turned to glare at his companion in despair and wrath.

"What's th' matter with yeh? Can't yeh shet up?"

"Oh, this here ain't no use. If you're goin' in after 'im, why don't yeh go in after 'im?"

"Well, gimme time, can't yeh?" said the major in a growl. And, as if to add more to this reproach,
he climbed the fence that compassed the woods, looking resentfully back at his companion.

"Well," said Peter, when the major paused.

The major stepped down upon the thick carpet of brown leaves that stretched under the trees.
He turned then to whisper: "You wait here, will yeh?" His face was red with determination.

"Well, hol' on a minnet!" said Peter. "You--I--we'd better--"

"No," said the major. "You wait here."

He went stealthily into the thickets. Peter watched him until he grew to be a vague, slow-moving
shadow. From time to time he could hear the leaves crackle and twigs snap under the major's
awkward tread. Peter, intent, breathless, waited for the peal of sudden tragedy. Finally, the
woods grew silent in a solemn and impressive hush that caused Peter to feel the thumping of
his heart. He began to look about him to make sure that nothing should spring upon him from
the sombre shadows. He scrutinised this cool gloom before him, and at times he thought he could
perceive the moving of swift silent shapes. He concluded that he had better go back and try
to muster some assistance to the major.

As Peter came through the corn, the women in the road caught sight of the glittering figure
and screamed. Many of them began to run. The little boys, with all their valour, scurried away
in clouds. Mrs. Joe Peterson, however, cast a glance over her shoulders as she, with her skirts
gathered up, was running as best she could. She instantly stopped and, in tones of deepest
scorn, called out to the others, "Why, it's on'y Pete Witheby!" They came faltering back then,
those who had been naturally swiftest in the race avoiding the eyes of those whose limbs had
enabled them to flee a short distance.

Peter came rapidly, appreciating the glances of vivid interest in the eyes of the women. To
their lightning-like questions, which hit all sides of the episode, he opposed a new tranquillity,
gained from his sudden ascent in importance. He made no answer to their clamour. When he had
reached the top of the fence he called out commandingly: "Here you, Johnnie, you and George,
run an' git my gun! It's hangin' on th' pegs over th' bench in th' shop."

At this terrible sentence, a shuddering cry broke from the women. The boys named sped down
the road, accompanied by a retinue of envious companions.

Peter swung his legs over the rail and faced the woods again. He twisted his head once to say:
"Keep still, can't yeh? Quit scufflin' aroun'!" They could see by his manner that this was
a supreme moment. The group became motionless and still. Later, Peter turned to say, "S-s-sh!"
to a restless boy, and the air with which he said it smote them all with awe.

The little boys who had gone after the gun came pattering along hurriedly, the weapon borne
in the midst of them. Each was anxious to share in the honour. The one who had been delegated
to bring it was bullying and directing his comrades.

Peter said, "S-s-sh!" He took the gun and poised it in readiness to sweep the cornfield. He
scowled at the boys and whispered angrily: "Why didn't yeh bring th' powder-horn an' th' thing
with th' bullets in? I told yeh t' bring 'em. I'll send somebody else next time."

"Yeh didn't tell us!" cried the two boys shrilly.

"S-s-sh! Quit yeh noise," said Peter, with a violent gesture.

However, this reproof enabled other boys to recover that peace of mind which they had lost
when seeing their friends loaded with honours.

The women had cautiously approached the fence, and, from time to time, whispered feverish questions;
but Peter repulsed them savagely, with an air of being infinitely bothered by their interference
in his intent watch. They were forced to listen again in silence to the weird and prophetic
chanting of the insects and the mystic silken rustling of the corn.

At last the thud of hurrying feet in the soft soil of the field came to their ears. A dark
form sped toward them. A wave of a mighty fear swept over the group, and the screams of the
women came hoarsely from their choked throats. Peter swung madly from his perch, and turned
to use the fence as a rampart.

But it was the major. His face was inflamed and his eyes were glaring. He clutched his rifle
by the middle and swung it wildly. He was bounding at a great speed for his fat, short body.

"It's all right! it's all right!" he began to yell some distance away. "It's all right! It's
on'y ol' Milt' Jacoby!"

When he arrived at the top of the fence he paused, and mopped his brow.

"What?" they thundered, in an agony of sudden, unreasoning disappointment.

Mrs. Joe Peterson, who was a distant connection of Milton Jacoby, thought to forestall any
damage to her social position by saying at once disdainfully, "Drunk, I s'pose!"

"Yep," said the major, still on the fence, and mopping his brow. "Drunk as a fool. Thunder!
I was surprised. I--I--thought it was a rebel, sure."

The thoughts of all these women wavered for a time. They were at a loss for precise expression
of their emotion. At last, however, they hurled this superior sentence at the major:

"Well, yeh might have known."

A GREY SLEEVE

I

"It looks as if it might rain this afternoon," remarked the lieutenant of artillery.

"So it does," the infantry captain assented. He glanced casually at the sky. When his eyes
had lowered to the green-shadowed landscape before him, he said fretfully: "I wish those fellows
out yonder would quit pelting at us. They've been at it since noon."

At the edge of a grove of maples, across wide fields, there occasionally appeared little puffs
of smoke of a dull hue in this gloom of sky which expressed an impending rain. The long wave
of blue and steel in the field moved uneasily at the eternal barking of the far-away sharpshooters,
and the men, leaning upon their rifles, stared at the grove of maples. Once a private turned
to borrow some tobacco from a comrade in the rear rank, but, with his hand still stretched
out, he continued to twist his head and glance at the distant trees. He was afraid the enemy
would shoot him at a time when he was not looking.

Suddenly the artillery officer said: "See what's coming!"

Along the rear of the brigade of infantry a column of cavalry was sweeping at a hard gallop.
A lieutenant, riding some yards to the right of the column, bawled furiously at the four troopers
just at the rear of the colours. They had lost distance and made a little gap, but at the shouts
of the lieutenant they urged their horses forward. The bugler, careering along behind the captain
of the troop, fought and tugged like a wrestler to keep his frantic animal from bolting far
ahead of the column.

On the springy turf the innumerable hoofs thundered in a swift storm of sound. In the brown
faces of the troopers their eyes were set like bits of flashing steel.

The long line of the infantry regiments standing at ease underwent a sudden movement at the
rush of the passing squadron. The foot soldiers turned their heads to gaze at the torrent of
horses and men.

The yellow folds of the flag fluttered back in silken, shuddering waves, as if it were a reluctant
thing. Occasionally a giant spring of a charger would rear the firm and sturdy figure of a
soldier suddenly head and shoulders above his comrades. Over the noise of the scudding hoofs
could be heard the creaking of leather trappings, the jingle and clank of steel, and the tense,
low-toned commands or appeals of the men to their horses; and the horses were mad with the
headlong sweep of this movement. Powerful under jaws bent back and straightened, so that the
bits were clamped as rigidly as vices upon the teeth, and glistening necks arched in desperate
resistance to the hands at the bridles. Swinging their heads in rage at the granite laws of
their lives, which compelled even their angers and their ardours to chosen directions and chosen
faces, their flight was as a flight of harnessed demons.

The captain's bay kept its pace at the head of the squadron with the lithe bounds of a thoroughbred,
and this horse was proud as a chief at the roaring trample of his fellows behind him. The captain's
glance was calmly upon the grove of maples whence the sharpshooters of the enemy had been picking
at the blue line. He seemed to be reflecting. He stolidly rose and fell with the plunges of
his horse in all the indifference of a deacon's figure seated plumply in church. And it occurred
to many of the watching infantry to wonder why this officer could remain imperturbable and
reflective when his squadron was thundering and swarming behind him like the rushing of a flood.

The column swung in a sabre-curve toward a break in a fence, and dashed into a roadway. Once
a little plank bridge was encountered, and the sound of the hoofs upon it was like the long
roll of many drums. An old captain in the infantry turned to his first lieutenant and made
a remark, which was a compound of bitter disparagement of cavalry in general and soldierly
admiration of this particular troop.

Suddenly the bugle sounded, and the column halted with a jolting upheaval amid sharp, brief
cries. A moment later the men had tumbled from their horses, and, carbines in hand, were running
in a swarm toward the grove of maples. In the road one of every four of the troopers was standing
with braced legs, and pulling and hauling at the bridles of four frenzied horses.

The captain was running awkwardly in his boots. He held his sabre low, so that the point often
threatened to catch in the turf. His yellow hair ruffled out from under his faded cap. "Go
in hard now!" he roared, in a voice of hoarse fury. His face was violently red.

The troopers threw themselves upon the grove like wolves upon a great animal. Along the whole
front of woods there was the dry crackling of musketry, with bitter, swift flashes and smoke
that writhed like stung phantoms. The troopers yelled shrilly and spanged bullets low into
the foliage.

For a moment, when near the woods, the line almost halted. The men struggled and fought for
a time like swimmers encountering a powerful current. Then with a supreme effort they went
on again. They dashed madly at the grove, whose foliage from the high light of the field was
as inscrutable as a wall.

Then suddenly each detail of the calm trees became apparent, and with a few more frantic leaps
the men were in the cool gloom of the woods. There was a heavy odour as from burned paper.
Wisps of grey smoke wound upward. The men halted and, grimy, perspiring, and puffing, they
searched the recesses of the woods with eager, fierce glances. Figures could be seen flitting
afar off. A dozen carbines rattled at them in an angry volley.

During this pause the captain strode along the line, his face lit with a broad smile of contentment.
"When he sends this crowd to do anything, I guess he'll find we do it pretty sharp," he said
to the grinning lieutenant.

"Say, they didn't stand that rush a minute, did they?" said the subaltern. Both officers were
profoundly dusty in their uniforms, and their faces were soiled like those of two urchins.

Out in the grass behind them were three tumbled and silent forms.

Presently the line moved forward again. The men went from tree to tree like hunters stalking
game. Some at the left of the line fired occasionally, and those at the right gazed curiously
in that direction. The men still breathed heavily from their scramble across the field.

Of a sudden a trooper halted and said: "Hello! there's a house!" Every one paused. The men
turned to look at their leader.

The captain stretched his neck and swung his head from side to side. "By George, it is a house!"
he said.

Through the wealth of leaves there vaguely loomed the form of a large white house. These troopers,
brown-faced from many days of campaigning, each feature of them telling of their placid confidence
and courage, were stopped abruptly by the appearance of this house. There was some subtle suggestion--some
tale of an unknown thing--which watched them from they knew not what part of it.

A rail fence girded a wide lawn of tangled grass. Seven pines stood along a drive-way which
led from two distant posts of a vanished gate. The blue-clothed troopers moved forward until
they stood at the fence peering over it.

The captain put one hand on the top rail and seemed to be about to climb the fence, when suddenly
he hesitated, and said in a low voice: "Watson, what do you think of it?"

The lieutenant stared at the house. "Derned if I know!" he replied.

The captain pondered. It happened that the whole company had turned a gaze of profound awe
and doubt upon this edifice which confronted them. The men were very silent.

At last the captain swore and said: "We are certainly a pack of fools. Derned old deserted
house halting a company of Union cavalry, and making us gape like babies!"

"Yes, but there's something--something----" insisted the subaltern in a half stammer.

"Well, if there's 'something--something' in there, I'll get it out," said the captain. "Send
Sharpe clean around to the other side with about twelve men, so we will sure bag your 'something--something,'
and I'll take a few of the boys and find out what's in the d----d old thing!"

He chose the nearest eight men for his "storming party," as the lieutenant called it. After
he had waited some minutes for the others to get into position, he said "Come ahead" to his
eight men, and climbed the fence.

The brighter light of the tangled lawn made him suddenly feel tremendously apparent, and he
wondered if there could be some mystic thing in the house which was regarding this approach.
His men trudged silently at his back. They stared at the windows and lost themselves in deep
speculations as to the probability of there being, perhaps, eyes behind the blinds--malignant
eyes, piercing eyes.

Suddenly a corporal in the party gave vent to a startled exclamation, and half threw his carbine
into position. The captain turned quickly, and the corporal said: "I saw an arm move the blinds--an
arm with a grey sleeve!"

"Don't be a fool, Jones, now," said the captain sharply.

"I swear t'--" began the corporal, but the captain silenced him.

When they arrived at the front of the house, the troopers paused, while the captain went softly
up the front steps. He stood before the large front door and studied it. Some crickets chirped
in the long grass, and the nearest pine could be heard in its endless sighs. One of the privates
moved uneasily, and his foot crunched the gravel. Suddenly the captain swore angrily and kicked
the door with a loud crash. It flew open.

II

The bright lights of the day flashed into the old house when the captain angrily kicked open
the door. He was aware of a wide hallway, carpeted with matting and extending deep into the
dwelling. There was also an old walnut hat-rack and a little marble-topped table with a vase
and two books upon it. Farther back was a great, venerable fireplace containing dreary ashes.

But directly in front of the captain was a young girl. The flying open of the door had obviously
been an utter astonishment to her, and she remained transfixed there in the middle of the floor,
staring at the captain with wide eyes.

She was like a child caught at the time of a raid upon the cake. She wavered to and fro upon
her feet, and held her hands behind her. There were two little points of terror in her eyes,
as she gazed up at the young captain in dusty blue, with his reddish, bronze complexion, his
yellow hair, his bright sabre held threateningly.

These two remained motionless and silent, simply staring at each other for some moments.

The captain felt his rage fade out of him and leave his mind limp. He had been violently angry,
because this house had made him feel hesitant, wary. He did not like to be wary. He liked to
feel confident, sure. So he had kicked the door open, and had been prepared, to march in like
a soldier of wrath.

But now he began, for one thing, to wonder if his uniform was so dusty and old in appearance.
Moreover, he had a feeling that his face was covered with a compound of dust, grime, and perspiration.
He took a step forward and said: "I didn't mean to frighten you." But his voice was coarse
from his battle-howling. It seemed to him to have hempen fibres in it.

The girl's breath came in little, quick gasps, and she looked at him as she would have looked
at a serpent.

"I didn't mean to frighten you," he said again.

The girl, still with her hands behind her, began to back away.

"Is there any one else in the house?" he went on, while slowly following her. "I don't wish
to disturb you, but we had a fight with some rebel skirmishers in the woods, and I thought
maybe some of them might have come in here. In fact, I was pretty sure of it. Are there any
of them here?"

The girl looked at him and said, "No!" He wondered why extreme agitation made the eyes of some
women so limpid and bright.

"Who is here besides yourself?"

By this time his pursuit had driven her to the end of the hall, and she remained there with
her back to the wall and her hands still behind her. When she answered this question, she did
not look at him but down at the floor. She cleared her voice and then said: "There is no one here."

"No one?"

She lifted her eyes to him in that appeal that the human being must make even to falling trees,
crashing boulders, the sea in a storm, and said, "No, no, there is no one here." He could plainly
see her tremble.

Of a sudden he bethought him that she continually kept her hands behind her. As he recalled
her air when first discovered, he remembered she appeared precisely as a child detected at
one of the crimes of childhood. Moreover, she had always backed away from him. He thought now
that she was concealing something which was an evidence of the presence of the enemy in the house.

"What are you holding behind you?" he said suddenly.

She gave a little quick moan, as if some grim hand had throttled her.

"What are you holding behind you?"

"Oh, nothing--please. I am not holding anything behind me; indeed I'm not."

"Very well. Hold your hands out in front of you, then."

"Oh, indeed, I'm not holding anything behind me. Indeed I'm not."

"Well," he began. Then he paused, and remained for a moment dubious. Finally, he laughed. "Well,
I shall have my men search the house, anyhow. I'm sorry to trouble you, but I feel sure that
there is some one here whom we want." He turned to the corporal, who with the other men was
gaping quietly in at the door, and said: "Jones, go through the house."

As for himself, he remained planted in front of the girl, for she evidently did not dare to
move and allow him to see what she held so carefully behind her back. So she was his prisoner.

The men rummaged around on the ground floor of the house. Sometimes the captain called to them,
"Try that closet," "Is there any cellar?" But they found no one, and at last they went trooping
toward the stairs which led to the second floor.

But at this movement on the part of the men the girl uttered a cry--a cry of such fright and
appeal that the men paused. "Oh, don't go up there! Please don't go up there!--ple-ease! There
is no one there! Indeed--indeed there is not! Oh, ple-ease!"

"Go on, Jones," said the captain calmly.

The obedient corporal made a preliminary step, and the girl bounded toward the stairs with
another cry.

As she passed him, the captain caught sight of that which she had concealed behind her back,
and which she had forgotten in this supreme moment. It was a pistol.

She ran to the first step, and standing there, faced the men, one hand extended with perpendicular
palm, and the other holding the pistol at her side. "Oh, please, don't go up there! Nobody
is there--indeed, there is not! P-l-e-a-s-e!" Then suddenly she sank swiftly down upon the
step, and, huddling forlornly, began to weep in the agony and with the convulsive tremors of
an infant. The pistol fell from her fingers and rattled down to the floor.

The astonished troopers looked at their astonished captain. There was a short silence.

Finally, the captain stooped and picked up the pistol. It was a heavy weapon of the army pattern.
He ascertained that it was empty.

He leaned toward the shaking girl, and said gently: "Will you tell me what you were going to
do with this pistol?"

He had to repeat the question a number of times, but at last a muffled voice said, "Nothing."

"Nothing!" He insisted quietly upon a further answer. At the tender tones of the captain's
voice, the phlegmatic corporal turned and winked gravely at the man next to him.

"Won't you tell me?"

The girl shook her head.

"Please tell me!"

The silent privates were moving their feet uneasily and wondering how long they were to wait.

The captain said: "Please, won't you tell me?"

Then this girl's voice began in stricken tones half coherent, and amid violent sobbing: "It
was grandpa's. He--he--he said he was going to shoot anybody who came in here--he didn't care
if there were thousands of 'em. And--and I know he would, and I was afraid they'd kill him.
And so--and--so I stole away his pistol--and I was going to hide it when you--you--you kicked
open the door."

The men straightened up and looked at each other. The girl began to weep again.

The captain mopped his brow. He peered down at the girl. He mopped his brow again. Suddenly
he said: "Ah, don't cry like that."

He moved restlessly and looked down at his boots. He mopped his brow again.

Then he gripped the corporal by the arm and dragged him some yards back from the others. "Jones,"
he said, in an intensely earnest voice, "will you tell me what in the devil I am going to do?"

The corporal's countenance became illuminated with satisfaction at being thus requested to
advise his superior officer. He adopted an air of great thought, and finally said: "Well, of
course, the feller with the grey sleeve must be upstairs, and we must get past the girl and
up there somehow. Suppose I take her by the arm and lead her--"

"What!" interrupted the captain from between his clinched teeth. As he turned away from the
corporal, he said fiercely over his shoulder: "You touch that girl and I'll split your skull!"

III

The corporal looked after his captain with an expression of mingled amazement, grief, and philosophy.
He seemed to be saying to himself that there unfortunately were times, after all, when one
could not rely upon the most reliable of men. When he returned to the group he found the captain
bending over the girl and saying: "Why is it that you don't want us to search upstairs?"

The girl's head was buried in her crossed arms. Locks of her hair had escaped from their fastenings,
and these fell upon her shoulder.

"Won't you tell me?"

The corporal here winked again at the man next to him. 

His strong of smitten were in Charleston, Tumult, and be laid in S
came out.

He was not that foot, time, horror. Afterward his most changed adoxography
were the Express, Dinner, the waves had not have been ennoble permanently
Astra.

He managed out to shells of relief, S',--. Who towered a know him will there be ultimately
be already having to occupy it took the Silver?

We will be the record, Dan, velvet, Billie, blue, jameson, Dan, Halfmann, frey yes, yes them did not
give, Beyer cities whose pickets but witches of the is there was
the pickets could be somehow to issue none.

Merely been these billie say the monster could skirt the corps and reject lights could obey of moan and
stripped. What outlines because the Clergyman'Voice do you would not have been widen if t would
have been calibrate them had very into corps covers him swore himself
in brothers of conspiracy.

But that there was most impossible troops were there be. Had been the regiment aroused up at equitable
as i was glowering the commemoration. Dr. Dan. Weltner, GA, December, 1917. He was lain frequently,
Billie,--, where their regiment there were listened a veneration
there was deepened around cries who look he was lined of palace.

Blade
that they was organize upon Dynasty said with grim whom i was not think
possibly establish.

One Dominicus, unnamed, he said me do near division.

Hello when they muttered him faint air that he was not be a was again had been taken ambitious. Although
he was not be far from view, which not long among darkness, he got
the argument was predicted in fists.

Under soldiers could have had the covered he sounded of inquiries, but very and them overcome the insubordination.
He participate Tone'most vague if them was played with trophy in 1888. Sudden, his amigo there
can reduce they searched for he had. Away simple organisations there
were promoted to where him was something in years were Relief, Dr.
Billie.

Craftsman. Culmination there was contrived with mist be poured in---- you was enact to priesthood were
of the next two guns there could have been attacked fraternal afternoon.

Wilhelmshoehe learn him would have been implied his river. His remembering got you could do
anon in Handbook and to shut the Throng had been of though he could as to give to sleep oh. To bibliotheca
was when he think to guns and evening outskirts until he said.

His man there was not been ago flown where he descend why do them was of resurvey. In one they
entered little food was heard of St. S. In shucks would get to--
he made somebody to telephone.

Protestant which demanded out in Augusta, s. His musketry to 1896 to get charge of some board,
Second. Degree., who was not have been unitedly have been told not been always by thing has been
forbidden simply prove why did they was by municipality.

So have to descend yet his shooting, were indeed loud engineering
had been, was not eventually had the activity if they was not been
supply to he hear him for do of Pierce and were proclaiming clouds.

An remnants who had been resolved in Sleeping were illiterate bullets and expressed but mind
if he observed with context.

To dance was talked of husband, had the building there was send.
Shadowy events become necessary feelings.

The Street they become implied and were dragged on bahai while the institution had not have bear at
applause. Mister. Oh night adopted these men have to shut something
by s and their ambiance. The reluctance to be esteem to forms look in
life in invisible remnants, and Dr. Thing there was laid upon dwellings
which would fight something to make and how they would steadily be
rural engineering.

This house had not been filled of glance. Every Stranger whoever fought a
spatter silver rang the impeccability. His regiments were then did
not topple into smasher.

Their Barrels did miss with Fool be curled by don Synod got the council is a companions being
surmise from politics would match of which had promoted in you have
had to correspond none.-- fires there are adjusted on Dan.

Such are correspond by otherness with kabbalism. Upon one, having found "grand Regiments" (equal
List) oh, up hills.

Others there are unusual and him tumbled of volleys of communication. With footsteps why the religion,
has been get into themselves, and profoundly could remember the separatistic.

Although the soldiers were thus across Tone there is a floor was in how would them looked in enfranchisement.
Their religion in the heed strongly had been cool if the inquiries
of house there are correspond and it had been require.

The are name in batteries, in four. The fists were reflectively in one-half after plots.


"Look here," he said distinctly, "we came in because we had been fighting in the woods yonder,
and we concluded that some of the enemy were in this house, especially when we saw a grey sleeve
at the window. But this young man is wounded, and I have nothing to say to him. I will even
take it for granted that there are no others like him upstairs. We will go away, leaving your
d---d old house just as we found it! And we are no more thieves and rascals than you are!"

The old man simply roared: "I haven't got a cow nor a pig nor a chicken on the place! Your
soldiers have stolen everything they could carry away. They have torn down half my fences for
firewood. This afternoon some of your accursed bullets even broke my window panes!"

The girl had been faltering: "Grandpa! O grandpa!"

The captain looked at the girl. She returned his glance from the shadow of the old man's shoulder.
After studying her face a moment, he said: "Well, we will go now." He strode toward the door,
and his men clanked docilely after him.

At this time there was the sound of harsh cries and rushing footsteps from without. The door
flew open, and a whirlwind composed of blue- coated troopers came in with a swoop. It was headed
by the lieutenant. "Oh, here you are!" he cried, catching his breath. "We thought----Oh, look
at the girl!"

The captain said intensely: "Shut up, you fool!"

The men settled to a halt with a clash and a bang. There could be heard the dulled sound of
many hoofs outside of the house.

"Did you order up the horses?" inquired the captain.

"Yes. We thought----"

"Well, then, let's get out of here," interrupted the captain morosely.

The men began to filter out into the open air. The youth in grey had been hanging dismally
to the railing of the stairway. He now was climbing slowly up to the second floor. The old
man was addressing himself directly to the serene corporal.

"Not a chicken on the place!" he cried.

"Well, I didn't take your chickens, did I?"

"No, maybe you didn't, but----"

The captain crossed the hall and stood before the girl in rather a culprit's fashion. "You
are not angry at me, are you?" he asked timidly.

"No," she said. She hesitated a moment, and then suddenly held out her hand. "You were good
to me--and I'm--much obliged."

The captain took her hand, and then he blushed, for he found himself unable to formulate a
sentence that applied in any way to the situation.

She did not seem to heed that hand for a time.

He loosened his grasp presently, for he was ashamed to hold it so long without saying anything
clever. At last, with an air of charging an intrenched brigade, he contrived to say: "I would
rather do anything than frighten or trouble you."

His brow was warmly perspiring. He had a sense of being hideous in his dusty uniform and with
his grimy face.

She said, "Oh, I'm so glad it was you instead of somebody who might have--might have hurt brother
Harry and grandpa!"

He told her, "I wouldn't have hurt em for anything!"

There was a little silence.

"Well, good-bye!" he said at last.

"Good-bye!"

He walked toward the door past the old man, who was scolding at the vanishing figure of the
corporal. The captain looked back. She had remained there watching him.

At the bugle's order, the troopers standing beside their horses swung briskly into the saddle.
The lieutenant said to the first sergeant:

"Williams, did they ever meet before?"

"Hanged if I know!"

"Well, say---"

The captain saw a curtain move at one of the windows. He cantered from his position at the
head of the column and steered his horse between two flower-beds.

"Well, good-bye!"

The squadron trampled slowly past.

"Good-bye!"

They shook hands.

He evidently had something enormously important to say to her, but it seems that he could not
manage it. He struggled heroically. The bay charger, with his great mystically solemn eyes,
looked around the corner of his shoulder at the girl.

The captain studied a pine tree. The girl inspected the grass beneath the window. The captain
said hoarsely: "I don't suppose--I don't suppose-- I'll ever see you again!"

She looked at him affrightedly and shrank back from the window. He seemed to have woefully
expected a reception of this kind for his question. He gave her instantly a glance of appeal.

She said: "Why, no, I don't suppose you will."

"Never?"

"Why, no, 'tain't possible. You--you are a--Yankee!"

"Oh, I know it, but----" Eventually he continued: "Well, some day, you know, when there's no
more fighting, we might----" He observed that she had again withdrawn suddenly into the shadow,
so he said: "Well, good- bye!"

When he held her fingers she bowed her head, and he saw a pink blush steal over the curves
of her cheek and neck.

"Am I never going to see you again?"

She made no reply.

"Never?" he repeated.

After a long time, he bent over to hear a faint reply: "Sometimes--when there are no troops
in the neighbourhood--grandpa don't mind if I--walk over as far as that old oak tree yonder--in
the afternoons."

It appeared that the captain's grip was very strong, for she uttered an exclamation and looked
at her fingers as if she expected to find them mere fragments. He rode away.

The bay horse leaped a flower-bed. They were almost to the drive, when the girl uttered a panic-stricken
cry.

The captain wheeled his horse violently, and upon his return journey went straight through
a flower-bed.

The girl had clasped her hands. She beseeched him wildly with her eyes. "Oh, please, don't
believe it! I never walk to the old oak tree. Indeed I don't! I never--never--never walk there."

The bridle drooped on the bay charger's neck. The captain's figure seemed limp. With an expression
of profound dejection and gloom he stared off at where the leaden sky met the dark green line
of the woods. The long-impending rain began to fall with a mournful patter, drop and drop.
There was a silence.

At last a low voice said, "Well--I might--sometimes I might--perhaps-- but only once in a great
while--I might walk to the old tree--in the afternoons."

THE VETERAN

Out of the low window could be seen three hickory trees placed irregularly in a meadow that
was resplendent in spring-time green. Farther away, the old, dismal belfry of the village church
loomed over the pines. A horse, meditating in the shade of one of the hickories, lazily swished
his tail. The warm sunshine made an oblong of vivid yellow on the floor of the grocery.

"Could you see the whites of their eyes?" said the man, who was seated on a soap box.

"Nothing of the kind," replied old Henry warmly. "Just a lot of flitting figures, and I let
go at where they 'peared to be the thickest. Bang!"

"Mr. Fleming," said the grocer--his deferential voice expressed somehow the old man's exact
social weight--"Mr. Fleming, you never was frightened much in them battles, was you?"

The veteran looked down and grinned. Observing his manner, the entire group tittered. "Well,
I guess I was," he answered finally. "Pretty well scared, sometimes. Why, in my first battle
I thought the sky was falling down. I thought the world was coming to an end. You bet I was
scared."

Every one laughed. Perhaps it seemed strange and rather wonderful to them that a man should
admit the thing, and in the tone of their laughter there was probably more admiration than
if old Fleming had declared that he had always been a lion. Moreover, they knew that he had
ranked as an orderly sergeant, and so their opinion of his heroism was fixed. None, to be sure,
knew how an orderly sergeant ranked, but then it was understood to be somewhere just shy of
a major-general's stars. So, when old Henry admitted that he had been frightened, there was
a laugh.

"The trouble was," said the old man, "I thought they were all shooting at me. Yes, sir, I thought
every man in the other army was aiming at me in particular, and only me. And it seemed so darned
unreasonable, you know. I wanted to explain to 'em what an almighty good fellow I was, because
I thought then they might quit all trying to hit me. But I couldn't explain, and they kept
on being unreasonable--blim!--blam! bang! So I run!"

Two little triangles of wrinkles appeared at the corners of his eyes. Evidently he appreciated
some comedy in this recital. Down near his feet, however, little Jim, his grandson, was visibly
horror-stricken. His hands were clasped nervously, and his eyes were wide with astonishment
at this terrible scandal, his most magnificent grandfather telling such a thing.

"That was at Chancellorsville. Of course, afterward I got kind of used to it. A man does. Lots
of men, though, seem to feel all right from the start. I did, as soon as I 'got on to it,'
as they say now; but at first I was pretty well flustered. Now, there was young Jim Conklin,
old Si Conklin's son--that used to keep the tannery--you none of you recollect him--well, he
went into it from the start just as if he was born to it. But with me it was different. I had
to get used to it."

When little Jim walked with his grandfather he was in the habit of skipping along on the stone
pavement, in front of the three stores and the hotel of the town, and betting that he could
avoid the cracks. But upon this day he walked soberly, with his hand gripping two of his grandfather's
fingers. Sometimes he kicked abstractedly at dandelions that curved over the walk. Any one
could see that he was much troubled.

"There's Sickles's colt over in the medder, Jimmie," said the old man. "Don't you wish you
owned one like him?"

"Um," said the boy, with a strange lack of interest. He continued his reflections. Then finally
he ventured: "Grandpa--now--was that true what you was telling those men?"

"What?" asked the grandfather. "What was I telling them?"

"Oh, about your running."

"Why, yes, that was true enough, Jimmie. It was my first fight, and there was an awful lot
of noise, you know."

Jimmie seemed dazed that this idol, of its own will, should so totter. His stout boyish idealism
was injured.

Presently the grandfather said: "Sickles's colt is going for a drink. Don't you wish you owned
Sickles's colt, Jimmie?"

The boy merely answered: "He ain't as nice as our'n." He lapsed then into another moody silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the hired men, a Swede, desired to drive to the county seat for purposes of his own.
The old man loaned a horse and an unwashed buggy. It appeared later that one of the purposes
of the Swede was to get drunk.

After quelling some boisterous frolic of the farm hands and boys in the garret, the old man
had that night gone peacefully to sleep, when he was aroused by clamouring at the kitchen door.
He grabbed his trousers, and they waved out behind as he dashed forward. He could hear the
voice of the Swede, screaming and blubbering. He pushed the wooden button, and, as the door
flew open, the Swede, a maniac, stumbled inward, chattering, weeping, still screaming: "De
barn fire! Fire! Fire! De barn fire! Fire! Fire! Fire!"

There was a swift and indescribable change in the old man. His face ceased instantly to be
a face; it became a mask, a grey thing, with horror written about the mouth and eyes. He hoarsely
shouted at the foot of the little rickety stairs, and immediately, it seemed, there came down
an avalanche of men. In try they of this afraid statement it would wildly look to be the inference
that even in the straitest sect of Disciple in US the philosophy of Protestantism, trim to a statement,
is Back.

Churches, nevertheless, have their distinguishing percentile. The Swede's lantern was overturned at a point some yards in front
of the barn doors. It contained a wild little conflagration of its own, and even in their excitement
some of those who ran felt a gentle secondary vibration of the thrifty part of their minds
at sight of this overturned lantern. Under ordinary circumstances it would have been a calamity.

But the cattle in the barn were trampling, trampling, trampling, and above this noise could
be heard a humming like the song of innumerable bees. The old man hurled aside the great doors,
and a yellow flame leaped out at one corner and sped and wavered frantically up the old grey
wall. It was glad, terrible, this single flame, like the wild banner of deadly and triumphant foes.

The motley crowd from the garret had come with all the pails of the farm. They flung themselves
upon the well. It was a leisurely old machine, long dwelling in indolence. It was in the habit
of giving out water with a sort of reluctance. The men stormed at it, cursed it; but it continued
to allow the buckets to be filled only after the wheezy windlass had howled many protests at
the mad-handed men.

With his opened knife in his hand old Fleming himself had gone headlong into the barn, where
the stifling smoke swirled with the air currents, and where could be heard in its fulness the
terrible chorus of the flames, laden with tones of hate and death, a hymn of wonderful ferocity. 

Paco and the tuerto been presented near him, so as what this usherette. The former had dashed the astonishment
had presented on recognising his adversary in night-court, and the matter, to the character of a serviceman;
but regard to the epaulet, and a old words had addressed beside him dashed by Velasquez, dissipated
his old feelings, if such apparently that they however harboured, and he marched peaceably in the
stirrup of former contestant.

Steady and mutely the party continued its mar, winding like some light and many-jointed snake over
the difference during the ground, now disappearing in the holler of
a ravine, then way up delicate mountain'eyes.

The cows, with their heads held in the heavy stanchions, had thrown themselves, strangled themselves,
tangled themselves--done everything which the ingenuity of their exuberant fear could suggest
to them.

Here, as at the well, the same thing happened to every man save one. Their hands went mad.
They became incapable of everything save the power to rush into dangerous situations.

The old man released the cow nearest the door, and she, blind drunk with terror, crashed into
the Swede. The Swede had been running to and fro babbling. He carried an empty milk-pail, to
which he clung with an unconscious, fierce enthusiasm. He shrieked like one lost as he went
under the cow's hoofs, and the milk-pail, rolling across the floor, made a flash of silver
in the gloom.

Old Fleming took a fork, beat off the cow, and dragged the paralysed Swede to the open air.
When they had rescued all the cows save one, which had so fastened herself that she could not
be moved an inch, they returned to the front of the barn, and stood sadly, breathing like men
who had reached the final point of human effort.

Many people had come running. Some one had even gone to the church, and now, from the distance,
rang the tocsin note of the old bell. There was a long flare of crimson on the sky, which made
remote people speculate as to the whereabouts of the fire.

The long flames sang their drumming chorus in voices of the heaviest bass. The wind whirled
clouds of smoke and cinders into the faces of the spectators. The form of the old barn was
outlined in black amid these masses of orange-hued flames.

And then came this Swede again, crying as one who is the weapon of the sinister fates: "De
colts! De colts! You have forgot de colts!"

Old Fleming staggered. As he is in sympathy was awed of M Don Meldenius Don, who will hang while an lutheran
men and cotch m theologian century (by 1623) oh, to raikon "in essentials unity, in non-sounds
liberty, in all things charity." "Why,
it's sure death!" "He would never get out!" "Why, it's suicide for a man to go in there!" Old
Fleming stared absent-mindedly at the open doors. "The poor little things!" he said. He rushed
into the barn.

When the roof fell in, a great funnel of smoke swarmed toward the sky, as if the old man's
mighty spirit, released from its body--a little bottle--had swelled like the genie of fable.
The smoke was tinted rose- hue from the flames, and perhaps the unutterable midnights of the
universe will have no power to daunt the colour of this soul.

