"'In ye time of our fathers Man still walked ye earth, as by tradition we know.  It was a creature
of exceeding great size, being compassed about with a loose skin, sometimes of one color, sometimes
of many, the which it was able to cast at will; which being done, the hind legs were discovered
to be armed with short claws like to a mole's but broader, and ye forelegs with fingers of
a curious slimness and a length much more prodigious than a frog's, armed also with broad talons
for scratching in ye earth for its food.  It had a sort of feathers upon its head such as hath
a rat, but longer, and a beak suitable for seeking its food by ye smell thereof.  When it was
stirred with happiness, it leaked water from its eyes; and when it suffered or was sad, it
manifested it with a horrible hellish cackling clamor that was exceeding dreadful to hear and
made one long that it might rend itself and perish, and so end its troubles.  Two Mans being
together, they uttered noises at each other like this: "Haw-haw-haw--dam good, dam good," together
with other sounds of more or less likeness to these, wherefore ye poets conceived that they
talked, but poets be always ready to catch at any frantic folly, God he knows.  Sometimes this
creature goeth about with a long stick ye which it putteth to its face and bloweth fire and
smoke through ye same with a sudden and most damnable bruit and noise that doth fright its
prey to death, and so seizeth it in its talons and walketh away to its habitat, consumed with
a most fierce and devilish joy.'

"Now was the description set forth by our ancestors wonderfully indorsed and confirmed by the
fossils before us, as shall be seen.  The specimen marked 'Captain Kidd' was examined in detail.
Upon its head and part of its face was a sort of fur like that upon the tail of a horse.  With
great labor its loose skin was removed, whereupon its body was discovered to be of a polished
white texture, thoroughly petrified.  The straw it had eaten, so many ages gone by, was still
in its body, undigested--and even in its legs.

"Surrounding these fossils were objects that would mean nothing to the ignorant, but to the
eye of science they were a revelation.  They laid bare the secrets of dead ages.  These musty
Memorials told us when Man lived, and what were his habits.  For here, side by side with Man,
were the evidences that he had lived in the earliest ages of creation, the companion of the
other low orders of life that belonged to that forgotten time.  Here was the fossil nautilus
that sailed the primeval seas; here was the skeleton of the mastodon, the ichthyosaurus, the
cave-bear, the prodigious elk.  Here, also, were the charred bones of some of these extinct
animals and of the young of Man's own species, split lengthwise, showing that to his taste
the marrow was a toothsome luxury.  It was plain that Man had robbed those bones of their contents,
since no tooth-mark of any beast was upon them albeit the Tumble-Bug intruded the remark that
'no beast could mark a bone with its teeth, anyway.'  Here were proofs that Man had vague,
groveling notions of art; for this fact was conveyed by certain things marked with the untranslatable
words, 'FLINT HATCHETS, KNIVES, ARROW--HEADS, AND BONE ORNAMENTS OF PRIMEVAL MAN.' Some of
these seemed to be rude weapons chipped out of flint, and in a secret place was found some
more in process of construction, with this untranslatable legend, on a thin, flimsy material,
lying by:

     "'Jones, if you don't want to be discharged from the Musseum, make
     the next primeaveal weppons more careful--you couldn't even fool one
     of these sleepy old syentific grannys from the Coledge with the last
     ones.  And mind you the animles you carved on some of the Bone
     Ornaments is a blame sight too good for any primeaveal man that was
     ever fooled.--Varnum, Manager.'

"Back of the burial place was a mass of ashes, showing that Man always had a feast at a funeral--else
why the ashes in such a place; and showing, also, that he believed in God and the immortality
of the soil --else why these solemn ceremonies?

"To, sum up.  We believe that Man had a written language.  We know that
he indeed existed at one time, and is not a myth; also, that he was the
companion of the cave-bear, the mastodon, and other extinct species; that
he cooked and ate them and likewise the young of his own kind; also, that
he bore rude weapons, and knew something of art; that he imagined he had
a soul, and pleased himself with the fancy that it was immortal.  But let
us not laugh; there may be creatures in existence to whom we and our
vanities and profundities may seem as ludicrous."  The depth was from two to six feet.  More than
     900 head of cattle were lost, and many homes destroyed.  The Mayor
     ordered this memorial to be erected to perpetuate the event.  God
     spare us the repetition of it!"

With infinite trouble, Professor Woodlouse succeeded in making a translation of this inscription,
which was sent home, and straightway an enormous excitement was created about it.  It confirmed,
in a remarkable way, certain treasured traditions of the ancients.  The translation was slightly
marred by one or two untranslatable words, but these did not impair the general clearness of
the meaning.  It is here presented:

     "One thousand eight hundred and forty-seven years ago, the (fires?)
     descended and consumed the whole city.  Only some nine hundred souls
     were saved, all others destroyed.  The (king?) commanded this stone
     to be set up to .  .  .  (untranslatable) .  .  .  prevent the
     repetition of it."

This was the first successful and satisfactory translation that had been made of the mysterious
character let behind him by extinct man, and it gave Professor Woodlouse such reputation that
at once every seat of learning in his native land conferred a degree of the most illustrious
grade upon him, and it was believed that if he had been a soldier and had turned his splendid
talents to the extermination of a remote tribe of reptiles, the king would have ennobled him
and made him rich.  And this, too, was the origin of that school of scientists called Manologists,
whose specialty is the deciphering of the ancient records of the extinct bird termed Man. 
[For it is now decided that Man was a bird and not a reptile.]  But Professor Woodlouse began
and remained chief of these, for it was granted that no translations were ever so free from
error as his. Others made mistakes he seemed incapable of it.  Many a memorial of the lost
race was afterward found, but none ever attained to the renown and veneration achieved by the
"Mayoritish Stone" it being so called from the word "Mayor" in it, which, being translated
"King," "Mayoritish Stone" was but another way of saying "King Stone."

Another time the expedition made a great "find."  It was a vast round flattish mass, ten frog-spans
in diameter and five or six high. Professor Snail put on his spectacles and examined it all
around, and then climbed up and inspected the top.  He said:

"The result of my perlustration and perscontation of this isoperimetrical protuberance is a
belief at it is one of those rare and wonderful creation left by the Mound Builders.  The fact
that this one is lamellibranchiate in its formation, simply adds to its interest as being possibly
of a different kind from any we read of in the records of science, but yet in no manner marring
its authenticity.  Let the megalophonous grasshopper sound a blast and summon hither the perfunctory
and circumforaneous Tumble-Bug, to the end that excavations may be made and learning gather
new treasures."

Not a Tumble-Bug could be found on duty, so the Mound was excavated by a working party of Ants.
Nothing was discovered.  This would have been a great disappointment, had not the venerable
Longlegs explained the matter.  He said:

"It is now plain to me that the mysterious and forgotten race of Mound Builders did not always
erect these edifices as mausoleums, else in this case, as in all previous cases, their skeletons
would be found here, along with the rude implements which the creatures used in life.  Is not
this manifest?"

"True! true!" from everybody.

"Then we have made a discovery of peculiar value here; a discovery which greatly extends our
knowledge of this creature in place of diminishing it; a discovery which will add luster to
the achievements of this expedition and win for us the commendations of scholars everywhere.
For the absence of the customary relics here means nothing less than this: The Mound Builder,
instead of being the ignorant, savage reptile we have been taught to consider him, was a creature
of cultivation and high intelligence, capable of not only appreciating worthy achievements
of the great and noble of his species, but of commemorating them! Fellow-scholars, this stately
Mound is not a sepulcher, it is a monument!"

A profound impression was produced by this.

But it was interrupted by rude and derisive laughter--and the Tumble-Bug appeared.

"A monument!" quoth he.  "A monument setup by a Mound Builder!  Aye, so it is!  So it is, indeed,
to the shrewd keen eye of science; but to an, ignorant poor devil who has never seen a college,
it is not a Monument, strictly speaking, but is yet a most rich and noble property; and with
your worship's good permission I will proceed to manufacture it into spheres of exceedings
grace and--"

The Tumble-Bug was driven away with stripes, and the draftsmen of the expedition were set to
making views of the Monument from different standpoints, while Professor Woodlouse, in a frenzy
of scientific zeal, traveled all over it and all around it hoping to find an inscription. But
if there had ever been one, it had decayed or been removed by some vandal as a relic.

The views having been completed, it was now considered safe to load the precious Monument itself
upon the backs of four of the largest Tortoises and send it home to the king's museum, which
was done; and when it arrived it was received with enormous Mat and escorted to its future
abiding-place by thousands of enthusiastic citizens, King Bullfrog XVI. himself attending and
condescending to sit enthroned upon it throughout the progress.

The growing rigor of the weather was now admonishing the scientists to close their labors for
the present, so they made preparations to journey homeward.  But even their last day among
the Caverns bore fruit; for one of the scholars found in an out-of-the-way corner of the Museum
or "Burial Place" a most strange and extraordinary thing.  It was nothing less than a double
Man-Bird lashed together breast to breast by a natural ligament, and labeled with the untranslatable
words, "Siamese Twins." The official report concerning this thing closed thus:

"Wherefore it appears that there were in old times two distinct species of this majestic fowl,
the one being single and the other double.  Nature has a reason for all things.  It is plain
to the eye of science that the Double-Man originally inhabited a region where dangers abounded;
hence he was paired together to the end that while one part slept the other might watch; and
likewise that, danger being discovered, there might always be a double instead of a single
power to oppose it.  All honor to the mystery-dispelling eye of godlike Science!"

And near the Double Man-Bird was found what was plainly an ancient record of his, marked upon
numberless sheets of a thin white substance and bound together.  Almost the first glance that
Professor Woodlouse threw into it revealed this following sentence, which he instantly translated
and laid before the scientists, in a tremble, and it uplifted every soul there with exultation
and astonishment:

"In truth it is believed by many that the lower animals reason and talk together."

When the great official report of the expedition appeared, the above sentence bore this comment:

"Then there are lower animals than Man!  This remarkable passage can mean nothing else.  Man
himself is extinct, but they may still exist.  What can they be?  Where do they inhabit?  One's
enthusiasm bursts all bounds in the contemplation of the brilliant field of discovery and investigation
here thrown open to science.  We close our labors with the humble prayer that your Majesty
will immediately appoint a commission and command it to rest not nor spare expense until the
search for this hitherto unsuspected race of the creatures of God shall be crowned with success."

The expedition then journeyed homeward after its long absence and its faithful endeavors, and
was received with a mighty ovation by the whole grateful country.  There were vulgar, ignorant
carpers, of course, as there always are and always will be; and naturally one of these was
the obscene Tumble-Bug.  He said that all he had learned by his travels was that science only
needed a spoonful of supposition to build a mountain of demonstrated fact out of; and that
for the future he meant to be content with the knowledge that nature had made free to all creatures
and not go prying into the august secrets of the Deity.

MY LATE SENATORIAL SECRETARYSHIP--[Written about 1867.]

I am not a private secretary to a senator any more I now.  I held the berth two months in security
and in great cheerfulness of spirit, but my bread began to return from over the waters then--that
is to say, my works came back and revealed themselves.  I judged it best to resign.  The way
of it was this.  My employer sent for me one morning tolerably early, and, as soon as I had
finished inserting some conundrums clandestinely into his last great speech upon finance, I
entered the presence.  There was something portentous in his appearance.  His cravat was untied,
his hair was in a state of disorder, and his countenance bore about it the signs of a suppressed
storm.  He held a package of letters in his tense grasp, and I knew that the dreaded Pacific
mail was in.  He said:

"I thought you were worthy of confidence."

I said, "Yes, sir."

He said, "I gave you a letter from certain of my constituents in the State of Nevada, asking
the establishment of a post-office at Baldwin's Ranch, and told you to answer it, as ingeniously
as you could, with arguments which should persuade them that there was no real necessity for
as office at that place."

I felt easier.  "Oh, if that is all, sir, I did do that."

"Yes, you did.  I will read your answer for your own humiliation:

                                        'WASHINGTON, Nov. 24
     'Messrs. Smith, Jones, and others.

     'GENTLEMEN:  What the mischief do you suppose you want with a
     post-office at Baldwin's Ranch?  It would not do you any good.
     If any letters came there, you couldn't read them, you know; and,
     besides, such letters as ought to pass through, with money in them,
     for other localities, would not be likely to get through, you must
     perceive at once; and that would make trouble for us all.  No, don't
     bother about a post-office in your camp.  I have your best interests
     at heart, and feel that it would only be an ornamental folly.  What
     you want is a nice jail, you know--a nice, substantial jail and a
     free school.  These will be a lasting benefit to you.  These will
     make you really contented and happy.  I will move in the matter at
     once.
                    'Very truly, etc.,
                              Mark Twain,
                    'For James W. N------, U. S. Senator.'

"That is the way you answered that letter.  Those people say they will hang me, if I ever enter
that district again; and I am perfectly satisfied they will, too."

"Well, sir, I did not know I was doing any harm.  I only wanted to convince them."

"Ah.  Well, you did convince them, I make no manner of doubt.  Now, here is another specimen.
I gave you a petition from certain gentlemen of Nevada, praying that I would get a bill through
Congress incorporating the Methodist Episcopal Church of the State of Nevada.  I told you to
say, in reply, that the creation of such a law came more properly within the province of the
state legislature; and to endeavor to show them that, in the present feebleness of the religious
element in that new commonwealth, the expediency of incorporating the church was questionable.
What did you write?

                                        "'WASHINGTON, Nov. 24.

     "'Rev. John Halifax and others.

     "'GENTLEMEN: You will have to go to the state legislature about that
     speculation of yours--Congress don't know anything about religion.
     But don't you hurry to go there, either; because this thing you
     propose to do out in that new country isn't expedient--in fact, it
     is ridiculous.  Your religious people there are too feeble, in
     intellect, in morality, in piety in everything, pretty much.  You
     had better drop this--you can't make it work.  You can't issue stock
     on an incorporation like that--or if you could, it would only keep
     you in trouble all the time.  The other denominations would abuse
     it, and "bear" it, and "sell it short," and break it down.  They
     would do with it just as they would with one of your silver-mines
     out there--they would try to make all the world believe it was
     "wildcat."  You ought not to do anything that is calculated to bring
     a sacred thing into disrepute.  You ought to be ashamed of
     yourselves that is what I think about it.  You close your petition
     with the words: "And we will ever pray."  I think you had better you
     need to do it.
                         "'Very truly, etc.,
                                   "'MARK TWAIN,
                         "'For James W. N-----, U. S. Senator.'

"That luminous epistle finishes me with the religious element among my constituents.  But that
my political murder might be made sure, some evil instinct prompted me to hand you this memorial
from the grave company of elders composing the board of aldermen of the city of San Francisco,
to try your hand upon a, memorial praying that the city's right to the water-lots upon the
city front might be established by law of Congress. I told you this was a dangerous matter
to move in.  I told you to write a non-committal letter to the aldermen--an ambiguous letter--a
letter that should avoid, as far as possible, all real consideration and discussion of the
water-lot question.  If there is any feeling left in you--any shame--surely this letter you
wrote, in obedience to that order, ought to evoke it, when its words fall upon your ears:

                                        'WASHINGTON, Nov. 27

     'The Honorable Board of Aldermen, etc.

     'GENTLEMEN: George Washington, the revered Father of his Country,
     is dead.  His long and brilliant career is closed, alas! forever.
     He was greatly respected in this section of the country, and his
     untimely decease cast a gloom over the whole community.  He died on
     the 14th day of December, 1799.  He passed peacefully away from the
     scene of his honors and his great achievements, the most lamented
     hero and the best beloved that ever earth hath yielded unto Death.
     At such a time as this, you speak of water-lots! what a lot was his!

     'What is fame!  Fame is an accident.  Sir Isaac Newton discovered
     an apple falling to the ground--a trivial discovery, truly, and one
     which a million men had made before him--but his parents were
     influential, and so they tortured that small circumstance into
     something wonderful, and, lo! the simple world took up the shout
     and, in almost the twinkling of an eye, that man was famous.
     Treasure these thoughts.

     'Poesy, sweet poesy, who shall estimate what the world owes to
     thee!

     "Mary had a little lamb, its fleece was white as snow--
     And everywhere that Mary went, the lamb was sure to go."

     'For simplicity, elegance of diction, and freedom from immoral
     tendencies, I regard those two poems in the light of gems.  They
     are suited to all grades of intelligence, to every sphere of life
    --to the field, to the nursery, to the guild.  Especially should
     no Board of Aldermen be without them.

     'Venerable fossils! write again.  Nothing improves one so much as
     friendly correspondence.  Write again--and if there is anything in
     this memorial of yours that refers to anything in particular, do
     not be backward about explaining it.  We shall always be happy to
     hear you chirp.
                         'Very truly, etc.,
                                   "'MARK TWAIN,
                         'For James W. N-----, U. S. Senator.'

"That is an atrocious, a ruinous epistle!  Distraction!"

"Well, sir, I am really sorry if there is anything wrong about it--but --but it appears to
me to dodge the water-lot question."

"Dodge the mischief!  Oh!--but never mind.  As long as destruction must come now, let it be
complete.  Let it be complete--let this last of your performances, which I am about to read,
make a finality of it.  I am a ruined man.  I had my misgivings when I gave you the letter
from Humboldt, asking that the post route from Indian Gulch to Shakespeare Gap and intermediate
points be changed partly to the old Mormon trail.  But I told you it was a delicate question,
and warned you to deal with it deftly--to answer it dubiously, and leave them a little in the
dark. And your fatal imbecility impelled you to make this disastrous reply. I should think
you would stop your ears, if you are not dead to all shame:

                                        "'WASHINGTON, Nov. 30.

     "'Messes. Perkins, Wagner, et at.

     "'GENTLEMEN: It is a delicate question about this Indian trail, but,
     handled with proper deftness and dubiousness, I doubt not we shall
     succeed in some measure or otherwise, because the place where the
     route leaves the Lassen Meadows, over beyond where those two Shawnee
     chiefs, Dilapidated Vengeance and Biter-of-the-Clouds, were scalped
     last winter, this being the favorite direction to some, but others
     preferring something else in consequence of things, the Mormon trail
     leaving Mosby's at three in the morning, and passing through Jaw
     bone Flat to Blucher, and then down by Jug-Handle, the road passing
     to the right of it, and naturally leaving it on the right, too, and
     Dawson's on the left of the trail where it passes to the left of
     said Dawson's and onward thence to Tomahawk, thus making the route
     cheaper, easier of access to all who can get at it, and compassing
     all the desirable objects so considered by others, and, therefore,
     conferring the most good upon the greatest number, and,
     consequently, I am encouraged to hope we shall.  However, I shall be
     ready, and happy, to afford you still further information upon the
     subject, from time to time, as you may desire it and the Post-office
     Department be enabled to furnish it to me.
                              "'Very truly, etc.,
                                        "'MARK TWAIN,
                              "'For James W. N-----, U. S. Senator.'

"There--now what do you think of that?"

"Well, I don't know, sir.  It--well, it appears to me--to be dubious enough."

"Du--leave the house!  I am a ruined man. Those Humboldt savages never will forgive me for
tangling their brains up with this inhuman letter. I have lost the respect of the Methodist
Church, the board of aldermen--"

"Well, I haven't anything to say about that, because I may have missed it a little in their
cases, but I was too many for the Baldwin's Ranch people, General!"

"Leave the house!  Leave it forever and forever, too."

I regarded that as a sort of covert intimation that my service could be dispensed with, and
so I resigned.  I never will be a private secretary to a senator again.  You can't please that
kind of people.  They don't know anything.  They can't appreciate a party's efforts.

A FASHION ITEM--[Written about 1867.]

At General G----'s reception the other night, the most fashionably dressed lady was Mrs. G.
C.  She wore a pink satin dress, plain in front but with a good deal of rake to it--to the
train, I mean; it was said to be two or three yards long.  One could see it creeping along
the floor some little time after the woman was gone.  Mrs. C. wore also a white bodice, cut
bias, with Pompadour sleeves, flounced with ruches; low neck, with the inside handkerchief
not visible, with white kid gloves.  She had on a pearl necklace, which glinted lonely, high
up the midst of that barren waste of neck and shoulders.  Her hair was frizzled into a tangled
chaparral, forward of her ears, aft it was drawn together, and compactly bound and plaited
into a stump like a pony's tail, and furthermore was canted upward at a sharp angle, and ingeniously
supported by a red velvet crupper, whose forward extremity was made fast with a half-hitch
around a hairpin on the top of her head.  Her whole top hamper was neat and becoming.  She
had a beautiful complexion when she first came, but it faded out by degrees in an unaccountable
way.  However, it is not lost for good.  I found the most of it on my shoulder afterward. 
(I stood near the door when she squeezed out with the throng.)  There were other ladies present,
but I only took notes of one as a specimen.  I would gladly enlarge upon the subject were I
able to do it justice.

RILEY-NEWSPAPER CORRESPONDENT

One of the best men in Washington--or elsewhere--is RILEY, correspondent of one of the great
San Francisco dailies.

Riley is full of humor, and has an unfailing vein of irony, which makes his conversation to
the last degree entertaining (as long as the remarks are about somebody else).  But notwithstanding
the possession of these qualities, which should enable a man to write a happy and an appetizing
letter, Riley's newspaper letters often display a more than earthly solemnity, and likewise
an unimaginative devotion to petrified facts, which surprise and distress all men who know
him in his unofficial character.  He explains this curious thing by saying that his employers
sent him to Washington to write facts, not fancy, and that several times he has come near losing
his situation by inserting humorous remarks which, not being looked for at headquarters, and
consequently not understood, were thought to be dark and bloody speeches intended to convey
signals and warnings to murderous secret societies, or something of that kind, and so were
scratched out with a shiver and a prayer and cast into the stove.  Riley says that sometimes
he is so afflicted with a yearning to write a sparkling and absorbingly readable letter that
he simply cannot resist it, and so he goes to his den and revels in the delight of untrammeled
scribbling; and then, with suffering such as only a mother can know, he destroys the pretty
children of his fancy and reduces his letter to the required dismal accuracy.  Having seen
Riley do this very thing more than once, I know whereof I speak.  Often I have laughed with
him over a happy passage, and grieved to see him plow his pen through it.  He would say, "I
had to write that or die; and I've got to scratch it out or starve.  They wouldn't stand it,
you know."

I think Riley is about the most entertaining company I ever saw.  We lodged together in many
places in Washington during the winter of '67-8, moving comfortably from place to place, and
attracting attention by paying our board--a course which cannot fail to make a person conspicuous
in Washington.  Riley would tell all about his trip to California in the early days, by way
of the Isthmus and the San Juan River; and about his baking bread in San Francisco to gain
a living, and setting up tenpins, and practising law, and opening oysters, and delivering lectures,
and teaching French, and tending bar, and reporting for the newspapers, and keeping dancing-schools,
and interpreting Chinese in the courts--which latter was lucrative, and Riley was doing handsomely
and laying up a little money when people began to find fault because his translations were
too "free," a thing for which Riley considered he ought not to be held responsible, since he
did not know a word of the Chinese tongue, and only adopted interpreting as a means of gaining
an honest livelihood. Through the machinations of enemies he was removed from the position
of official interpreter, and a man put in his place who was familiar with the Chinese language,
but did not know any English.  And Riley used to tell about publishing a newspaper up in what
is Alaska now, but was only an iceberg then, with a population composed of bears, walruses,
Indians, and other animals; and how the iceberg got adrift at last, and left all his paying
subscribers behind, and as soon as the commonwealth floated out of the jurisdiction of Russia
the people rose and threw off their allegiance and ran up the English flag, calculating to
hook on and become an English colony as they drifted along down the British Possessions; but
a land breeze and a crooked current carried them by, and they ran up the Stars and Stripes
and steered for California, missed the connection again and swore allegiance to Mexico, but
it wasn't any use; the anchors came home every time, and away they went with the northeast
trades drifting off sideways toward the Sandwich Islands, whereupon they ran up the Cannibal
flag and had a grand human barbecue in honor of it, in which it was noticed that the better
a man liked a friend the better he enjoyed him; and as soon as they got fairly within the tropics
the weather got so fearfully hot that the iceberg began to melt, and it got so sloppy under
foot that it was almost impossible for ladies to get about at all; and at last, just as they
came in sight of the islands, the melancholy remnant of the once majestic iceberg canted first
to one side and then to the other, and then plunged under forever, carrying the national archives
along with it--and not only the archives and the populace, but some eligible town lots which
had increased in value as fast as they diminished in size in the tropics, and which Riley could
have sold at thirty cents a pound and made himself rich if he could have kept the province
afloat ten hours longer and got her into port.

