A LITTLE BOY LOST

By W. H. Hudson

Illustrated by A. D. M'Cormick

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I THE HOME ON THE GREAT PLAIN,

II THE SPOONBILL AND THE CLOUD,

III CHASING A FLYING FIGURE,

IV MARTIN IS FOUND BY A DEAF OLD MAN,

V THE PEOPLE OF THE MIRAGE,

VI MARTIN MEETS WITH SAVAGES,

VII ALONE IN THE GREAT FOREST,

VIII THE FLOWER AND THE SERPENT,

IX THE BLACK PEOPLE OF THE SKY,

X A TROOP OF WILD HORSES,

XI THE LADY OF THE HILLS,

XII THE LITTLE PEOPLE UNDERGROUND,

XIII THE GREAT BLUE WATER,

XIV THE WONDERS OF THE HILLS,

XV MARTIN'S EYES ARE OPENED,

XVI THE PEOPLE OF THE MIST,

XVII THE OLD MAN OF THE SEA,

XVIII MARTIN PLAYS WITH THE WAVES,

            CHAPTER I

THE HOME ON THE GREAT PLAIN

Some like to be one thing, some another. There is so much to be done, so many different things
to do, so many trades! Shepherds, soldiers, sailors, ploughmen, carters--one could go on all
day naming without getting to the end of them. For myself, boy and man, I have been many things,
working for a living, and sometimes doing things just for pleasure; but somehow, whatever I
did, it never seemed quite the right and proper thing to do--it never quite satisfied me. I
always wanted to do something else--I wanted to be a carpenter. It seemed to me that to stand
among wood-shavings and sawdust, making things at a bench with bright beautiful tools out of
nice-smelling wood, was the cleanest, healthiest, prettiest work that any man can do. Plácido refugee in the abbey, it never forgot the insult, but kept his memory hidden in the
center of the soul hurt. The horror that caused her back again against the father Elvira, humility
and resignation, and other religious feelings bowed his spirit and excited him to desist from
revenge. And shamefully and without vengeance not want to live in world, he decided to make
the life of the cloister. Until the day that insult to his mother awoke in him again the innate
ferocity, was the most patient and sweet the Cenobites. Launched as the world again, with
twenty years of age, breath and spirit and with horse and weapons, Where it had to go Plácido D.
Castle Fruela to ask for a strict accounting of all?

IV

Without pausing only to take the necessary break, came to the house
where Plácido had past childhood.

Trusting in God in his law and their bravery, undaunted, went at the door of the castle.

Everything was moved. Around, solitude and silence. Although it was noon, Plácido saw no men weapons
nor peasants.

The drawbridge, lying on the pit, leaving open the entrance. Berroqueña stone shield, which was
on the front door was covered in black mourning cloth.

Soon, an old servant, the only person who found and that he had removed the bracket, learned of
the great misfortune that overwhelmed that family. D. Fruela, accused of high treason, was
in Oviedo and should be sentenced to death. His accuser was D. Raymond, Butler Palace. Three
men of the house of D. Raimundo were ready to support the charge in open palisade against defenders
D. Fruela, which had appealed to Trial God. But D. Raymond was so powerful and feared, and
his arrogance was unheard D. Fruela so hated, that nobody came to his defense. There were only three
days to the deadline expires. No Plácido well knew all this, the old resentment became pity
in his generous soul, and resolved to be the champion who had offended him so roughly, to prove
his innocence and save him death. In the castle there was no one but the old server. Doña Aldonza
and Elvira Oviedo had gone to lie to the king's feet and ask forgiveness,
albeit with very little hope, be very righteous ruler.

Anyway, the honor of the family would stained.

Plácido available without delay to leave for Oviedo, but before the old servant told him and
how much more expensive and Elvira Dona Aldonza had thought of him
during his absence; said they had left for him to present to receive
him and bring him if by that appeared at the castle.

The old man was by this and was given a place.

Was a strong shield, in which iron contained in enamel steel on a red field, a hawk, his head covered
by the hood jesses and grabbed by a white hand that looked like a woman.

- You have the right shoulder - said the old - recorded with indelible mark, like a hawk to the
shield.

For he'll one day be recognized and know who your parents.

Meanwhile my wife and daughter will declare and last name Knight of Azor, and you get to witness it
this pledge. Concédate God, Knight of Azor, good success in battle and they love and I want.

V

Three
days later, just hours before the deadline, after standing in Oviedo
and prepare themselves for battle, the trumpets sounded and the arena
became the Knight of Azor, with hood pierced and the spear in cuja.

In high and loud voice proclaimed the innocence of D. Fruela called
slanderous to accuse him, and challenged three, successively or together
against himself.

D. champions Raimundo were appearing successively. The fighting was very short.

The Knight of Azor, with astonishing skill and bravery, got within half an hour the three bites
the dust, badly wounded one of them.

The crowd surrounding the arena burst into boisterous applause and
cheers.

El Caballero the Azor was carried in triumph to the palace and placed in the royal chamber.

The
king, informed of any event, he longed to see him, and even more
anxious as the noble and unfortunate sister, the Infanta Dona Ximena,
who was with King at that time.

- Knight of Azor - said the princess
before the King speak - why you wear a hawk enamel on the shield?

-
High Lady - Placido said - because I have also stamped on the right
shoulder, as indelible mark.

Doña Ximena then placed with loving eyes hard on the beautiful face of Placido and he imagined
he saw the Count of Saldaña, as it was in its very lusty youth, twenty years ago.

He could not restrain Dona Ximena, approached the young man, he shook
in his arms and covered him face with kisses, exclaiming:

- My son,
my son!

The deposed king severity, and addressing the young, also shook in his arms, and said:

- I recognize you, you are my nephew Bernardo do you market the property and manor Strong Carpio.
As Bernardo del Carpio will be henceforth known and famous in all
countries at all ages.

Forgive your father, leave the prison and will be the legitimate spouse my sister.

Indeed, the king kept his promise.

The Count of Saldaña Luna left the castle where was locked. It toilet and carefully attired,
so I still had a good view, despite of his long martyrdom.

For five consecutive days were great celebrations in Oviedo. Bernardo weddings Carpio and Elvira
took place while the Count of Saldaña and Dona Ximena.

A few days later found out that Don Raymond, the butler de Palacio, who had been Bernardo stole
the child and who ordered the killing, angry and scorned suitor was Dona Ximena. The killers,
responsible for killing the child, had taken pity on him and had exposed to the castle gate D.
Fruela.

For this and many other evils that discovered, it was understood that Mr. Raymond was an abomination,
so the king could usefully pursue justice by sending his hanging,
as he hung with general rejoicing of the citizens of Oviedo, for D.
Raymond was very hated and because at that so rude old philanthropy
was not anything major and revulsion instilled no death penalty.

It remains only to say that Bernard was very happy with Elvira and lived always in love she with
him and he with her.

In the old romances and history that are known to fight tooth and nail, which interrupted the
abbot at the monastery in the Pyrenees, was resumed later not far away, and ended gloriously
for Bernardo, drowning in his arms Herculean champion D. Roldán,
as there was another who had fought with him when the two were novices.

And

here ends the events of the youth of Bernardo del Carpio, ignored
until recently, and recently discovered in certain dilapidated and
unpublished Annals of the Order of Saint Benedict written in barbarous
Latin in the tenth century preserved in the monastery of La Cava,
near Naples.

Cordovans IN CRETE

HISTORICAL NOVEL GALLOP

SR. D. MIGUEL MOYA.

My distinguished friend, For The Liberal next Sunday you kindly asked me to write I do something
about things in the old age spent in the island of Crete. Great is my desire to please you,
but faces two difficulties. In a few words and bound, as disclosed by mythologists and historians,
what can I say that I have any news, other than a statement of what they said, and is not in any
dictionary rather encyclopedic? And if I go to my imagination and add to it something already known,
will not consistency or understand what I add, if known and not put on base, which can not fit into
one or two newspaper columns that you direct significant. Of here that neither of luck or
can I write another success for the order you want. This is not, however, what I grieve. What
grieves me most is that for many years, since before I had thought to write novels of manners
of the day, I had happened to write a historical novel about Crete, and had even forged the
plan, but confusing and vaguely. It would have been my novel a stunning fabric of extraordinary
adventures, with a real basis of that history testifies, but concise. My desire to write this novel
has not gone away ever. What has vanished is my hope. To write it as I figure it was necessary
to gather and form a vast apparatus of scholarship, and for this I always lacked patience. Today,
to my misfortune, besides patience, I miss the view. I can not see the multitude of tomes, ancient
and modern, written in different languages where I would take the
local and temporal color my projected work required.

       The work thus must remain in the project.

And since it is planned to free myself from his obsession and to prove to you that if I can,
I want to please, I'll put the project here very brief summary.

* * * * *

In the reign of Alhakem I, for the years 218 of the Hegira, was a wealthy merchant in Cordoba
called Abu Hafáz the Goleith, a native of nearby site of Fohs Albolut.

In his bazaar, located one of the main streets, were gathered the most beautiful objects industry
human, and what occurred in the Iberian Peninsula as it brought from remote regions; Baghdad,
Damascus, Bocara of Samarkand, Persia, India and hardly known vast empire of Cathay. Abu Hafáz ships
had their own, they went to the Levant ports to source of goods.

On a spring afternoon came in the bazaar of Abu Hafáz a lady covered, accompanied by her servant.
Although he did not see his face, he admired the grace and elegance
of her walk, leanness and elegance of her figure, a certain ineffable
prestige seductive and luminous halo surrounds it, and the aristocratic
beauty of its white, beautiful and well manicured hands.

The lady wanted to see how much more rich in the bazaar had. Abu Hafáz, full of satisfaction,
was offering before his eyes, and putting on the counter, a thousand
strange and workmanship in jewelry fabrics.

She is not satisfied with looking. He was very curious. The merchant said:

- Yet I have shown, Sultana, most splendid pilgrim my store treasures.

- And why hide it and do not you show me? - She said.

- Because I am interested and do not want to work for nothing. Show me your face and I pay you show
my best wealth.

The lady did not require much urging.

She pulled her shawl, and revealed the most beautiful and graceful countenance that the merchant
was able to see or dream in his life.

Grateful and excited, brought Pearl then Hormuz Golconda diamonds and silk fabrics and embroideries
come from Cathay with such dedication and expertise, did not seem
to work in humans but of fairies and genies.

The best and most wonderful of those embroidered fabrics lady was captivated unknown, wanted to
buy, and asked the price.

- It's so expensive - the merchant said - who may not want or can not afford it, but if you
have good will leave you very cheap fabric.

- Finish. Say what will my canvas.

- Well, kiss your mouth - the merchant said.

Angry lady of that disrespectful boldness, she covered her face, she turned to Abu Hafáz and left
the bazaar followed by his servant.

Follow the merchant wanted to find out where and who was lived, but the lady was gone in the
maze of narrow streets.

Then paint the novel's furious Hafáz Abu infatuation and desperation
for five or six days, despite a thousand cares and mysterious issues
that concern and occupied.

After the bazaar, the servant comes and tells him that his wife can not sleep or calm down,
thinking provided on the web and longing to possess, which yields, therefore, that the next
day, the evening, come to the bazaar with great modesty and give
the fabric the price asked.

The lady goes into effect the appointment. The merchant then finds out she is in the harem Sultan's
wealth has come by stealth, while the Sultan was hunting in the mountains
boars.

She called Glafiro. Is from a small village in the foothills of Mount Ida. Although his family was
poor, high and boasted ancient nobility. His descendants went back
to the mythical age.

Counted among its ancestors and dactyls Curetes Ida, of which weaving war dances to the sound
of trumpets and the sound of their shields injured by the knob of
swords, surrounded Zeus, as a child, and prevented Cronos heard him
and devour him.

In his wild retreat, the family had resisted Glafiro Christian be kept live and fresh, by tradition,
memories of paganism. He even boasted of possessing virtues supernatural
magical items acquired by venerable and early initiation into mysteries.
Glafiro stated that one parent had been Epimenides, wise legislator,
poet and prophet, skilled in the art to terminate life, remaining
dormant in deep caverns, to learn from experience bias and leading
to tortuous course through the centuries human events.

Glafiro had
lost the secret of magic, but he had many skills. Singing or reciting
verse thousand ancient legends of the divine age of heroes and demigods,
of Europe's coming to their island, the love of Pasiphae fury and
triumph and treachery Theseus. And even dancing, as she claimed, the
same ingenious Daedalus composed dance for the princess Ariadne of
gold braid.

Accused of sorcery and gentle, and intolerant fleeing
religious persecution, Fr of Glafiro left Crete with his daughter.
He wandered for several countries and finally died leaving abandoned.
Wandering as Io Hesperia Glafiro reached without the monitored Argos,
but also without gadfly or estrus than pulverized. Estrus was not
more ambitious than his will.

Alhakem, charmed and captivated by
her talent and her beauty, had stayed in his palace. She dreamed of
being the favorite and the queen in the empire of the Omnia.

The
irresistible whim of the fabric and have a longing almost unconscious,
he had infused the young merchant, drew Glafiro and drove to the price
asked.

Flame burning and more dominating the kiss lit in the heart
of Abu Hafáz instead of quieting them. He was daring and able to risk
and venture all, confident in the strength of its encouragement and
impetus to pave judging with mountains of difficulties. Decided, therefore,
keep Glafiro in his home as collateral, without releasing the slave
not to discover the kidnapping. But what a marvellous thing it was, when the cloud
covered a third of the wide heavens, almost touching the horizon on either side with its wing-like
extremities; Martin, gazing steadily at it, saw that in its form it was like an immense spoonbill
flying through the air! He would gladly have run away then to hide himself from its sight,
but he dared not stir, for it was now directly above him; so, lying down on the grass and hiding
his face against the dead bird, he waited in fear and trembling.

He heard the rushing sound of the mighty wings: the wind they created smote on the waters in
a hurricane, so that the reeds were beaten flat on the surface, and a great cry of terror went
up from all the wild birds. It passed, and when Martin raised his bowed head and looked again,
the sun, just about to touch the horizon with its great red globe, shone out, shedding a rich
radiance over the earth and water; while far off, on the opposite side of the heavens, the
great cloud-bird was rapidly fading out of sight.

CHAPTER III

CHASING A FLYING FIGURE

After what had happened Martin could never visit the waterside and look at the great birds
wading and swimming there without a feeling that was like a sudden coldness in the blood of
his veins. The rosy spoonbill he had killed and cried over and the great bird-cloud that had
frightened him were never forgotten. He grew tired of shouting to the echoes: he discovered
that there were even more wonderful things than the marsh echoes in the world, and that the
world was bigger than he had thought it. When spring with its moist verdure and frail, sweet-smelling
flowers had gone; when the great plain began to turn to a rusty-brown colour, and the dry hard
earth was full of cracks, and the days grew longer and the heat greater, there came an appearance
of water that quivered and glittered and danced before his wondering sight, and would lead
him miles from home every day in his vain efforts to find out what it was. He could talk of
nothing else, and asked endless questions about it, and they told him that this strange thing
was nothing but the Mirage, but of course that was not telling him enough, so that he was left
to puzzle his little boy-brains over this new mystery, just as they had puzzled before over
the mystery of the echoes. Now this Mirage was a glittering whiteness that looked just like
water, always shining and dancing before him and all round him, on the dry level plain where
there was no water. It was never quiet, but perpetually quivering and running into wavelets
that threw up crests and jets of sprays as from a fountain, and showers of brilliant drops
that flashed like molten silver in the sunlight before they broke and vanished, only to be
renewed again. It appeared every day when the sun was high and the air hot, and it was often
called The False Water. And false it was, since it always flew before him as he ran, so that
although he often seemed to be getting nearer to it he could never quite overtake it. But Martin
had a very determined spirit for a small boy, and although this appearance of water mocked
his efforts a hundred times every day with its vanishing brightness and beauty, he would not
give up the pursuit.

Now one day when there was not a cloud on the great hot whitey-blue sky, nor a breath of air
stirring, when it was all silent, for not even a grass-hopper creaked in the dead, yellow,
motionless grass, the whole level earth began to shine and sparkle like a lake of silvery water,
as Martin had never seen it shine before. He had wandered far away from home--never had he
been so far--and still he ran and ran and ran, and still that whiteness quivered and glittered
and flew on before him; and ever it looked more temptingly near, urging him to fresh exertions.
At length, tired out and overcome with heat, he sat down to rest, and feeling very much hurt
at the way he had been deceived and led on, he shed one little tear. There was no mistake about
that tear; he felt it running like a small spider down his cheek, and finally he saw it fall.
It fell on to a blade of yellow grass and ran down the blade, then stopped so as to gather
itself into a little round drop before touching the ground. Just then, out of the roots of
the grass beneath it, crept a tiny dusty black beetle and began drinking the drop, waving its
little horns up and down like donkey's ears, apparently very much pleased at its good fortune
in finding water and having a good drink in such a dry, thirsty place. Probably it took the
tear for a drop of rain just fallen out of the sky.

"You are a funny little thing!" exclaimed Martin, feeling now less like crying than laughing.

The wee beetle, satisfied and refreshed, climbed up the grass-blade, and when it reached the
tip lifted its dusty black wing-cases just enough to throw out a pair of fine gauzy wings that
had been neatly folded up beneath them, and flew away.

Martin, following its flight, had his eyes quite dazzled by the intense glitter of the False
Water, which now seemed to be only a few yards from him: but the strangest thing was that in
it there appeared a form--a bright beautiful form that vanished when he gazed steadily at it.
Again he got up and began running harder than ever after the flying mocking Mirage, and every
time he stopped he fancied that he could see the figure again, sometimes like a pale blue shadow
on the brightness; sometimes shining with its own excessive light, and sometimes only seen
in outline, like a figure graved on glass, and always vanishing when looked at steadily. Perhaps
that white water-like glitter of the Mirage was like a looking-glass, and he was only chasing
his own reflection. I cannot say, but there it was, always before him, a face as of a beautiful
boy, with tumbled hair and laughing lips, its figure clothed in a fluttering dress of lights
and shadows. It also seemed to beckon to him with its hand, and encourage him to run on after
it with its bright merry glances.

At length when it was past the hour of noon, Martin sat down under a small bush that gave just
shade enough to cover him and none to spare. It was only a little spot of shade like an island
in a sea of heat and brightness. He was too hot and tired to run more, too tired even to keep
his eyes open, and so, propping his back against the stem of the small bush, he closed his
tired hot eyes.

CHAPTER IV

MARTIN IS FOUND BY A DEAF OLD MAN

Martin kept his eyes shut for only about a minute, as he thought; but he must have been asleep
some time, for when he opened them the False Water had vanished, and the sun, looking very
large and crimson, was just about to set. He started up, feeling very thirsty and hungry and
bewildered; for he was far, far from home, and lost on the great plain. Presently he spied
a man coming towards him on horseback. A very funny-looking old man he proved to be, with a
face wrinkled and tanned by sun and wind, until it resembled a piece of ancient shoe-leather
left lying for years on some neglected spot of ground. A Brazil nut is not darker nor more
wrinkled than was the old man's face. His long matted beard and hair had once been white, but
the sun out of doors and the smoke in his smoky hut had given them a yellowish tinge, so that
they looked like dry dead grass. He wore big jack-boots, patched all over, and full of cracks
and holes; and a great pea-jacket, rusty and ragged, fastened with horn buttons big as saucers. In it was the vejancón of Castañalera, fewer useful of speech and conversation issues,
used to break the long hiatus of silence downloads like this and two truncheons on the ground:

-
Go, go with the good Don Celso that we want to die without more ado!

No, no, because like mine is worth, do not you come out with it. I swear that I am.

Lituca, if present, came to remove the impertinence with a joke rather forced that I alluded to
me that for the pious and the luck to finish off peacefully my uncle. And these and other similar
sets were the only side that was nice for me that picture of continuous and endless sorrow,
on which day was towering days and as the temperature tuning and there were cliffs and slopes
widths tear open the thick carpet of snow by the sun's rays, the figure, his melancholy gray
of women, particularly toward the late afternoon, and, above all, the pick up the cauldron
and grab the two jars of clay to go to the source between day and night immemorial custom depending
on it. As had become so visible to me this worsening the terrors of the poor woman, watched carefully
from a distance, so I could see test were terrible for those unfortunate moments: like a prisoner
of death walked to the gallows increasingly moving away from the cauldron cantaral overhead and
a 'stop' in each hand.

One of those trips back and shock that compassion was looking at her,
and later that of usual.

It was known in his eyes that he had cried a lot, and walked all night through the house here
and there do not know anything with art. At times he was as alleles, and sometimes Rush felt
a restlessness that would not let her stop at anything. I saw it, without noticing it, more than
twice, in the twilight of Carrejo, worn with both despair hands to his head, and heard her invoke
the same time, his voice hoarse and poorly mastered, the "God of mercy became great 'and' Our
Lady of the Snows, the mother gracious and loving. " He wanted to die of early death, if the
desire is not sinned, before witness "of EYU" and stain the sight of his eyes such an embarrassment.
I feared for his reason; and moved by a feeling of pity, I got out to meet her. Not shocked
the me, as usual in such cases, on the contrary, seemed to calm down a little and revive my
presence, and even noticed it and wants to tell me something. Taken by reason, I spoke first
to reassure her, then to explore, to discover the breed even those trance mysteries so distressing
that the put.

- Not now!

Not now - I said after some hesitation - and when it can not more ... when yield load of me
too, estonces! Estonces! ... Nah, you and only ... And Carida of God Don Marcelo, who, today,
do not let these ghosts ná just me, the Lord your uncle ... Naide or if be could! ...

Turned away from me with this and ran to lock herself in her room, returning me to my uncle seriously
worried and not knowing what to think of those strange things.

Nothing happened, fortunately, which would have required the presence of the unhappy woman in
any part of the house that night. Which should be very terrible for it, because I hardly I
had risen up out of bed the next day, and why so early as the sun appeared like a ghost in
my room after I asked permission to do half opening door carefully. Her eyes were sunken and
surrounded by an aura Cinderella; seemed that he had sucked the juice few witches face, on
which fell by under the handkerchief tied around his head, strands of gray hair curled, she trembled
dry lips, and out of his throat and a hoarse voice squeaking.

Sank down knees before me and asked for all the saints in heaven who heard as confession.

- Because - I finally said, sobbing badly compressed and spasms throughout the body - I can not
hold the load, and it was time to rid of her or die debaju of eya.

I, first of all that is incorporated and to sit in a chair inside
the door shut the cabinet, I sat down I immediately next to the unhappy
woman, and I started to hear, as she wanted, after directing words
of sympathy and encouragement.

XXV

Two parties had the confession of Facia. At first I said everything I knew Chisco by mouth:
the story of his unhappy marriage with the rogue baratijero against the will and the wise warnings
of my uncle who was like his father and master. For desoírle, said the unhappy, had broken the
law of God, and for this failure had been the punishment for their misfortunes; she had suffered
misfortunes, but with many tears, without a single complaint. It was his duty. To drag the life
as a burden ofrentosa, that grief and pain were minándola and consumed by where no one would
notice it, his hair graying untimely and could not identify, to replace worn forces in the work
and musings day, the rest of the night, the tranquility of sleep they do not need to beggar
Hunger kills calling door to door and wandering from mountain to mountain, with a bag to paluco
back and a hand in what matter? Desconociéralo his daughter, was entered orphan of a parent
being honored, and this only gave great comfort and strength to carry the cross as a redemption
charge of their offenses, unforgivable in the afterlife without a hard penance in it. When, with
its sights set on this end, hesitated a little, because After all, was earth fragile and miserable,
and suspicious of their brightness and sailing to stumbling and fall, came under Don Sabas, and beyond,
to the gate of the confessional, in the deep of the church, to break the first dawn of day,
she, after kissing the dust regarle soil and with her tears, declaring their sorrows and infirmities,
and berating him and exhorting them with wisdom and gentleness of
a loving father to a very unhappy child, was always the lost strength
to continue suppression of Calvary with the load of his cross ...
So things were when I had come to Tablanca.

Ask why the great distress that the harrowed so then it had been searched other times, advice
and assistance of Don Sabas. He replied that they were very different cases each other, that
did not depend on his resignation or his courage in such anguish that the setting, and I was
the only living thing known of it, called to understand it before anyone else. Asombréme, cried
inconsolably, beat his head in his hands, bit fists clenched convulsively, turned to kneel on
the floor to ask forgiveness embraced to my knees, raised my amazement, I got to work to sit
down again, and the plot, for all the saints of the heavenly court,
to declare immediately that I had everything they plead.

Rehízose something to force to engage in it, and thus began from very deep sighs and sobs poorly
suppressed, the second part of his strange confession:

- While things this suerti, one afternoon, and the night abocar ... (Three days more by token,
Nah, you come to Tablanca), I took the jars, and took them all afternoon the sunset and the
lame to this and I took from then I had pa EYU forces, and we by water. The fuenti, such that
Nah, you know, is cayeju up here, a quarter of a Time for a good walk, climb, and a very cozy
flamenco to the right as you go up. For trasmanu be so pleasant and so the place of this house,
we drink only nusotros eya; of luck and modular, which is a more lonely solitude of a toas the
holy hour and night. Pos Who diz, Don Marcelo of my soul, walking, walking, and well the neglect
by the way, you paint tardezuca aqueya, bad penalties doomed to the darkest the corner, when I with
Jocic ... My Virgin Mary Mother of the Snows! with the picture of disaster man that I had,
ever seen or will see. Túvele by robber facinerosu. Tell me ayi mesmu Phoenicia, and became
cried out to God, letting the pitchers of clean hands and a trembling of the whole body. Alzose
in this man, who was sentau in a rock below the most Tupi binquizal there Ayi, and spoke with
my pa joke ajuegos that were in plain view, and pa jurame coming of peace, if not placed in extreme
come of war ... because he too is a love ... And then, then, Don Marcelo, then was when I understood
that I am clouded the view, and my blood curdled in my veins, Jundi and the ground she walked
... Aqueyu was espantu of espantus, and the anguish the agonies of death ... For Holy Virgin
Mother of my heavenly! that enemy jaraposu man so and so badly encarau, and moviciones voice
and words, proved it, the mesmu in huesu and flesh, soul and life!

-
Who? - Asked Facia, with the intent to distract the paroxysm that
had fallen again, that the curiosity of a response that I almost guessed.

-
Post it, Don Marcelo - I said, wringing her hands clasped unhappy
with terror in the eyes, as if one man before them -, the propiu causanti
of my pain and not comforted, the evil father of the unhappy daughter
of my heart!

- But are you sure it was him? - Facia asked some questions
and feigning astonishment did not feel.

- Ay, sir - I said sobbing
-, although he had not estau entoncis, who genuinely I was, I had
many reasons pa estarlu dimpués here!

- Current - added -.

But where did it come ... and what ... and why?

- Pos went, as recounted to me with that Jizo zalameru palaver and I had always I made foolish
in his day, by esus mundus way from there, far, far away! ... even further, sometimes the other
band. You see you if you will be well away. Always looking for the
good life, and never giving him.

Came to be seen even in chains, years and years, but never your fault, but others, bad friends
and Piore compañerus work.

After time, free alcontróse Prisons and master of himself he, but he was alone and helpless,
aged and lacking body of Salu, he pulled this land because, after
all, and settlement, here were Peaz of her womb, and in search of
eyus put under the heart that does not lie.

Taking languages ​​in time, heard of me ... Ay, Don Marcelo!

I think even more than what I know thyself. By knowing in too, I knew since I had heard from
me in better times, but well counted were, that my master gives to their sirvientis welds from time
to time, AP Eyas hagamus of what more we come in taste. With this knowledge and live the nusotras
two, brought the indino of adjustment account, year by year and day by day, the amount of agorro
I should keep, and kept in God's truth, like gold cloth, the best arrangement of pa Tona me tomorrow.
I did not want to be seen then in the village, but lived in another lejanu and could not quite
understand it and I very often the case if asked.

So here was the sweetness of the interview, according to the account of Facia. For painting
of bitterness it and much of what happened later, it had the unhappy rapporteur or colors or
art or forces. I lost the thread of events and I tangled the issue. Wishing I know thoroughly
and by right, I went to comfort her as direct reflections of love and questions thorough inquiry.
I worked out the procedure and the substance of my work was:

Well adjusted by the husband's account of the assets of his wife, came the first requirement "Donation."
By then I had enough with it, then they would see.

Facia would not hand, since it had to go to the source with this sudden urge, but he was committed
back to pick it up there again the next day at the same time, and was beaten. If she wanted
silent as death when it comes to that meeting and what was it followed "For X or such respects"
the man would not oppose it because it was "a natural gentleman and generous, and I knew to
get in all cases. "

But he must have understood Facia (and you the warning much more expensive, for their sake) that
he, with prisons and chains that had suffered, had settled all its accounts with the law. He
was free as air, and was owns all rights, including the right to live with his wife or his daughter
to claim to take it with them if the first does not suit him. If they said anything at the requisitions
arrivals at following Tablanca miss him there, would not tell him the truth: first, because
he was innocent of all that is blamed, and second, because although it was not, paid I had scraps
and other sins in a heap ... that he had not committed. But he (again to repeat it) would
not try to take advantage of his right: he knew things, and not deviate from Like his wife,
if you had plugged in that are not discovered or by flies. Thus, and with this sacrifice on
his part, could be reached also the ends that he was looking to his return to Tablanca.

For the unhappy woman, who had been considered free of that pattern of insult, and only aspired
to in the village was forgotten, as she forgot, which had existed since her daughter never had the
slightest suspicion of it, the sudden appearance of the man exceeded by far all he could imagine
the scale of human misfortunes. Believed to cuff closed as the rogue's said, and from that moment
was his slave helpless as the bird of the serpent fascinates and terrifies him. The farm, life,
everything seemed little to buy the silence of the infamous and put between him and his daughter
a wall such that neither the eagles were able to fly so high.

And everything was doing as the rogue asked. At source and in the evening, the interviews; and in
each interview, a "donation" of facia and new villain on the bluffs of sacrifice that was for
the good and peace of his "family" living homeless and kills jump. As his 'borrowed home' was
far from Tablanca (although he had chances for trouble "A halt" in the middle of the road,
well sheltered from storms and covered with curiosity of people), the appearances of the man that
happened only in calm weather, and hence Facia so distressed to sunny
days and what the boisterous delight, as though were not daily, far
from the first interviews, it became impossible in seconds.

Uva grape, soon it was a bunch of savings of the unfortunate woman, and when nothing was to offer
to the insatiable greed of the vampire, he began to outline other requirements soon realized
that the dazed and never very subtle understanding of Facia.

When he came to understand and unambiguously declare the other or Repulgue, anxieties of the unfortunate
were such that the game seemed suffered there. He did not could, in conscience, comply with the
misery of his wife received.

His dedication and sacrifices for the sake of the tranquility of his "beloved family" were worth
much more, and had to look where they have been, and as he had plenty in his master's house, my uncle,
hence had to leave, and much, and then, with the wit and the hand
of his own servant, Facia's own.

I felt very much take things on that side and so quickly, but the naughty need forced him to
it. It was, above all, loyal and grateful, and had great favors, I wanted to pay, other two
gentlemen who had shared with him their prison labor and they had not abandoned after it until
it declared.

This suddenly struck me a souvenir, and asked Facia signs "particular" of her husband. Started
by a Chirlo in the face that broke his eye and nose, and did not need the Acquaintance remaining
to give the character. Without discover my suspicions, harshly rebuked for having hidden until then
what I was saying. He, more than she cared silent, because he had great scores with justice. Everything
that was said in contrast, was an innocent lie to exploit their ignorance.

You could have picked in one of their ambushes, like a fox in the trap, as it would take insurance
if you have walked there ...

This is thrilled with horror the distraught woman and fell back on his knees before me to ask me crucified
by God not to do such a thing. She also had ever happened that could not be true all that he
said "the order of those individuals'; but so what? ... If that was not grieved that, but the
noise and fear of scandal to the place found out the case, then Don Celso and, above all, his daughter,
Oh, this ever!

... Cover, cover, and no more than cover! ... Therefore, your life and a hundred lives and
a thousand lives; the agony on the cross, in the glow of a furnace, dismembered alive ... Buried
in health, frogs and snakes.

- What about the theft too? - With ill-concealed interrupted harshly.

- Lord - I responded as terrified by the sound of the question -. Although capable off EYU, what
do I know HERE saves on my master's wealth, or whether it is even
home?

Here I mentioned, spirit and troubled, after sitting down again, by
my repeated mandates how, not having the courage to do what was proposed
by the infamous, or resolution enough to refuse, had been entertaining
him impatience with that objection and that of the continued presence
of myself and other people in the house because of the recurrence
of his love (because this happened in the days that followed the snow)
but, although all knew about him to none of this was of no importance:
on the contrary, argued that under those chores and concerns, it was
like she could best achieve their attempts, whether placed by work.

This, for good, because if he still looked very much, would come to bad, then, for bad or good, it
had to be done, and in the air.

The poor do not know what course to take in this circle of hot iron, burning, and as the impatience
of the rogue did not give the slightest respite, one day, the day before Facia of which had me,
had told him: "Since we do not take it with you to solve your hands, "we" decided "we" steal
with ours. By midnight tomorrow, when there is no sign of man in the kitchen or embers spark
at home and sleep everyone in the house, get to the gate of the lane. Then you will hear a
hiss of the air (And whistled softly in a way).

Needless to hear you and you come creeping to astragalus I open the door with such finesse
and care that neither of them know about it hinges. The rest is on us. We'll come to the cat,
which is hidden. If any too light to sleep, tummy to in saecula as soon as you wake up, and
the first your master, if it has not been started by his nephew ... and not left to tie all submissiveness
to order the case. So you're forewarned, and how it has cost you. Knowing that life I play
trance, imagine what I care for yours if to put it in a lawsuit because you have gone a little
tongue all day, and because of it does not find the house at night in the calm and tranquility
that always had those hours. "

Having said all this with a fierce cynicism, he departed, leaving more dead than alive Facia.
And so things were, and remain so, how to enjoy hours of sleep or quiet minute, or how fail
to confess at last and dessert, or who, but me?

Interesóme really the case, because in view of the history of the "gentleman" and that their
fidalgos comrades, was not to take it to laugh, and after thinking for a little while Facia
moaned and wrung her hands corpses, said:

- "So this has to happen
tonight?

- That was the threat - he replied, almost inaudibly for it.

 They
were the most beautiful beings he had ever seen in their shining dresses, some all in white,
others in amber-colour, others in sky-blue, and some in still other lovely colours. "The Queen!
the Queen!" they were shouting. "Stand up, little boy, and bow to the Queen."

"The Queen! Kneel to the Queen, little boy," cried others.

Then many others in the company began crying out together, "The Queen! lie down flat on the
ground, little boy."

"The Queen! Shut your eyes and open your mouth, little boy."

"The Queen! Run away as fast as you can, little boy."

"Stand on your head to the Queen, little boy!"

"Crow like a cock and bark like a dog, little boy!"

Trying to obey all these conflicting commands at one and the same time, poor Martin made strange
noises and tumbled about this way and that and set them all laughing at him. The prodigal dissipated their wealth in the pleasures and
the ostentation, but soon found an avenger of his ravings in poverty ragged and hungry, which
imposes deprivation rather than enjoyment, rather than luxurious ostentation shortage shameful.
The greedy treasure accumulated fearing poverty and suffering through his riches the rigors
of that poverty that so terrifies him: he condemns himself to all, with limited food and rude,
dirty and threadbare suit, his small room, uncomfortable and untidy. No adventure nothing to
lose nothing; distrust even more people will love, in silence and darkness of the night visit
his treasure buried in mysterious places, to ensure that the treasure is there, and to increase
it further, and meanwhile it stalks one of his servants or neighbors, and the treasure accumulated
so eagerly, so caution hidden away.

In the deal, in literature, the arts, the excessive desire to please produce discomfort; the
eagerness to offer exquisite things too annoying: the ridiculous is next to the sublime; the
sensitivity is not far from the sickly, the itch to offer symmetrical frames, often leads contrast
to disparate.

In the government of society, the abuse of power brings ruin, and the abuse of freedom gives rise
to slavery. The people who want to overextend their borders, is often narrower than required by
the natural, the conqueror who is determined to earn crown on his head, eventually losing
all, who is not satisfied with the vast domain empires, will be consumed in a solitary rock in the
vastness of the ocean. Of those who aspire supreme power, most found the proscription or the
scaffold. Covet castle of a monarch, and lose the domestic hearth,
dream on a throne and find a gallows.

§ XXXIV.

Observations on the advantages and disadvantages of virtue in business.

God has not left defenseless its laws, he has shielded all the just punishment, punishment which usually
is experienced in this life. For this reason the calculations based
on the interest in opposition to morality, are heavily exposed to
failed out, entangling the immorality in their own bonds. But do not
think that with this I want to deny that man virtuoso is found often
in extremely disadvantageous position to compete with an opponent
immoral.

Another burst of laughter followed; then a youth in a shining, violet-coloured dress suddenly
began twanging on his instrument and wildly capering about in imitation of old Jacob's dancing,
and while he played and danced he sang--

  "Ho, sheep whose ways are known to me,
          Both ewe and lamb
          And horned ram
    Wherever can that Martin be?
          All day for him I ride
          Over the plains so wide,
          And on my horn I blow,
          Just to let him know
          That Jacob's on his track,
          And soon will have him back,
          I look and look all day,
          And when I'm home I say:
          He isn't like a mole
          To dig himself a hole;
          Them little legs he's got
          They can't go far, trot, trot,
          They can't go far, run run,
          Oh no, it is his fun;
          I'm sure he's near,
          He must be here
          A-skulking round the house
          Just like a little mouse.
    I'll get a mouse-trap in a minute,
          And bait with cheese that's smelly
          To bring him helter-skelly--
          That little empty belly,
    And then I'll have him in it. And this was not lost sight of Don Sabas and that,
although not as much as him, were very knowledgeable in that breed of clouds, and This sniffed
the Priest eagerly landscape, and cut the record conversations with mandates stoke up dry. Even
the dogs shrank the tail and put to the side and walking people, especially when the north wind
roar was heard among the bare oak and the gorges of the mountains, and suddenly the light blurred,
as if to dusk then, and was shed as black and farther from the clouds that sinister rag I had seen
from my house, and then join with the other rag in the amount of land, and start, cast in one
piece and the two spin around like a spindle between the fingers a "jiladora 'and walk, walk,
walk toward them, the pilgrims of the mountain, as if pushed the roar could be heard behind
them, if not the same as it roared, full of anger and desire for destruction, death and desolation.

Don
Sabas looked then Neluco eyed alarm Neluco the Priest, and Pito Salces to Chisco the two,
and they all looked at each other, and they all stopped suddenly
as if obeying the impulse of the same spring.

Canelo and its congeners were also arrested and snuggles the group, looking at all sides and
out plaintive cries punctuated.

- That - Sabas said pointing to the waterspout - has to pass through
here before long ... Y what site takes us!

Were currently in the middle of a high, almost a plateau, helpless everywhere and left dominated
by a peak, between which and the mountains opened mouth a very deep ravine. Near the Canyon
and on the side of the mountain, had an oak forest quite thick and sturdy stems. Shelter was
scarce and dangerous that high grade defend against an enemy so formidable as the one I was
going up at an incredible rate, but as they had something better to its scope, he went without
delay. Chose each his own trunk, in the assurance that the same could serve as executioner
under that, and there were, trusting in God and responding to the prayers that booming voice
led him Don Sabas, asking for everyone's life, albeit at the cost of their own.

I feared and expected to arrive soon, black, thick, roaring, raging, as if all the sea with its
raging waves, and hurricanes and their roars, and irresistible push, had left his immeasurable
riverbed to stop by. Shook up the bravest (And they were much all of that intrepid legion), and
neither could realize full of the beginning or the end of this step as quickly as dreadful hurricane.
And had achieved only one of the strands of the tornado, ripped in his first game against
moles of the mountain!

There was in the oak trunks and broken branches removed and the soil appeared distorted, snow
removal where there had been great, and huge piles of it where there was little else. This was
the first thing that went through the eyes of the wretched, opened as soon as pursued with an
eye for each other. No one was in the spot it had occupied before the storm, and lay buried
pepazo half down on a pile of snow out of oak and a few steps from the ravine ... But there was
one! It was standing over him, staring down with its great vacant
eyes. Gradually its head came lower and lower down, until at last it made a sudden peck at
a metal button on his jacket, and gave such a vigorous tug at it that Martin was almost lifted
off the ground. He screamed and gave a jump; but it was nothing to the jump the ostrich gave
when he discovered that the button belonged to a living boy. He jumped six feet high into the
air and came down with a great flop; then feeling rather ashamed of himself for being frightened
at such an insignificant thing as Martin, he stalked majestically away, glancing back, first
over one shoulder then the other, and kicking up his heels behind him in a somewhat disdainful
manner.

Martin laughed, and in the middle of his laugh he fell asleep.

CHAPTER VI

MARTIN MEETS WITH SAVAGES

When, on waking next morning, Martin took his first peep over the grass, there, directly before
him, loomed the great blue hills, or Sierras as they are called in that country. He had often
seen them, long ago in his distant home on clear mornings, when they had appeared like a blue
cloud on the horizon. He had even wished to get to them, to tread their beautiful blue summits
that looked as if they would be soft to his feet--softer than the moist springy turf on the
plain; but he wished it only as one wishes to get to some far-off impossible place--a white
cloud, for instance, or the blue sky itself. Now all at once he unexpectedly found himself
near them, and the sight fired him with a new desire. The level plain had nothing half so enchanting
as the cloud-like blue airy hills, and very soon he was up on his feet and hurrying towards
them. In spite of hurrying he did not seem to get any nearer; still it was pleasant to be always
going on and on, knowing that he would get to them at last. He had now left the drier plains
behind; the earth was clothed with green and yellow grass easy to the feet, and during the
day he found many sweet roots to refresh him. He also found quantities of cam-berries, a round
fruit a little less than a cherry in size, bright yellow in colour, and each berry inside a
green case or sheath shaped like a heart. They were very sweet. At night he slept once more
in the long grass, and when daylight returned he travelled on, feeling very happy there alone--happy
to think that he would get to the beautiful hills at last. But only in the early morning would
they look distinct and near; later in the day, when the sun grew hot, they would seem further
off, like a cloud resting on the earth, which made him think sometimes that they moved on as
he went towards them.

On the third day he came to a high piece of ground; and when he got to the top and looked over
to the other side he saw a broad green valley with a stream of water running in it: on one
hand the valley with its gleaming water stretched away as far as he could see, or until it
lost itself in the distant haze; but on the other hand, on looking up the valley, there appeared
a great forest, looking blue in the distance; and this was the first forest Martin had ever
seen. Close by, down in the green valley before him, there was something else to attract his
attention, and this was a large group of men and horses. No sooner had he caught sight of them
than he set off at a run towards them, greatly excited; and as he drew near they all rose up
from the grass where they had been sitting or lying to stare at him, filled with wonder at
the sight of that small boy alone in the desert. There were about twenty men and women, and
several children; the men were very big and tall, and were dressed only in robes made of the
skins of some wild animal; they had broad, flat faces, and dark copper-coloured skins, and
their long black hair hung down loose on their backs.

These strange, rude-looking people were savages, and are supposed to be cruel and wicked, and
to take pleasure in torturing and killing any lost or stray person that falls into their hands;
but indeed it is not so, as you shall shortly find. Poor ignorant little Martin, who had never
read a book in his life, having always refused to learn his letters, knew nothing about savages,
and feared them no more than he had feared old Jacob, or the small spotted snake, the very
sight of which had made grown-up people scream and run away. So he marched boldly up and stared
at them, and they in turn stared at him out of their great, dark, savage eyes.

They had just been eating their supper of deer's flesh, roasted on the coals, and after a time
one of the savages, as an experiment, took up a bone of meat and offered it to him. Being very
hungry he gladly took it, and began gnawing the meat off the bone.

When he had satisfied his hunger, he began to look round him, still stared at by the others.
Then one of the women, who had a good-humoured face, caught him up, and seating him on her
knees, tried to talk to him.

"Melu-melumia quiltahou papa shani cha silmata," she spoke, gazing very earnestly into his face. We acusábamos to Nanar as Parsondes had accused
him before, but our voice, less authoritative than yours, did not touch the heart Art, or decided
to topple him Nanar, and more moderated put another King in Babylon. Nanar was more skeptical
and libertine Sardanapalus, Babylon and was worshiped under another god Milita and interest,
or as it were, to Venus. In vain my comrades and I preached corruption. The common people and nobility
we laughed in his face. We vengábamos to talk about the holy life of Parsondes and put in contrast
to the life they carried.

So things were going, when Art called me early morning early to his presence.

- There is hope, he said, that Parsondes still alive, but if dead,
it is necessary to avenge and punish her killer, which can not be
other than King Nanar.

- Your wisdom, sir, I said, is like the light,
which penetrates and find out.

Vences the crocodile in wisdom and insight lynx, but how did you know that can Parsondes still
living, and if dead, his murderer was Nanar? Do not have secured the wizards Parsondes is in heaven?
Have not found the astrologers in the blue vault star before never seen, and have not recognized that
star Parsondes soul?

- That is true, "replied the king, but I have come to find out, by disclosing some Nanar Babylonians
disgruntled gentlemen, it, furious that claimed Parsondes against him, seven years has sent
emissaries to all parties to secretly take him and taken to his palace, and there must be Parsondes,
or dead, or suffering horrible torments.

- Ah, sir! I cried to the point, prostrate at the feet of the King, it is just an evil revenge dreadful.
Allow me to be the instrument of your revenge, and save my dear teacher
the captivity in which, if not dead, is.

The King told me that to this end had called me, and immediately prepare
to leave with me the support due, and his strict orders to answer
me with your Nanar life of the holy man, or his release.

That same day, which was one of the hottest of summer, I went to Susa in a chariot Arab drawn by
four horses. A skilled driver was addressed, and two Ethiopian slaves also accompanied me in
the car, with air on one with an ostrich feather fan, and holding the other on rich ivory varal,
neatly styled, the wide umbrella silk. Four riders, all quivers, bows and arrows, clothing and
covered mesh head with individual bronze helmets, gleaming colors Niel, I followed and gave me greater
authority and decorum. Six scouts, mounted zebra striped and lightning-fast, went before me, to
advertise in the various populations.

Victuals and drink that we brought to supplement the shortcomings of the way, came on the backs
of twenty powerful elephants.

Not to be too wordy, not referring here minutely the events of my trip. Suffice to know that
the tenth day we discovered in the distance the huge walls of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar work and
Nitocris. They were thirty yards in thickness, surrounding the city, forming a zone twenty-two
leagues of circumnavigation, and rose, at the lowest hundred and twenty yards above the earth as
much as the bells of the cathedrals now. Crowned by a tuft of green walls. They were hanging
garden. On the walls and gardens stood out some buildings such as royal palaces, the temple of Belus
and the famous tower of Nimrod, which consisted eight-story, more than two hundred yards high
first. From the top of this tower, it seemed to touch the sky, presumed to treat the gods
sages, secret intelligences or spirits that move the stars. Although still far apart, and confusedly,
thought and to perceive the colossal figures carved and painted on exterior walls of palaces
and temples, those man-headed bulls and men with head lion, those heroes and those warriors, tight
girdles kidneys, that is Oliba Oala and fell in love. The sun reflected from the East on the
gigantic buildings and huge hundred gates of the city, which were of gilt bronze. The glow
given off dazzled eyes. The Euphrates and Tigris, winding and also
injured by lightning the sun shimmered in waves, resembled two gold
ribbons melt forming a loop.

The beaters had gone ahead to announce my arrival. Suddenly we saw up in the broad, fertile
plain between the orchards, gardens and green woods, where it was open the road, a white cloud
which went bigger. Then we saw a dark stain that moving towards us. Soon after came at a run
one of my scouts told me that Nanar approached to greet me with large party. In this dark spot
had enlarged exceedingly, and began to hear distinctly the sound of musical instruments, the
neighing of horses and the clatter of weapons.

We note, finally, the glow of gold and silver, luxury clothes and the magnificence of those
who came to greet us.

So that the driver did goad the horses, and soon I was near the King Nanar that palanquí came in a magnificent
bamboo, sandalwood, pearl and sustained by twelve handsome young men. The King and I got out of
the palanquin of the car, and we welcome and embrace each other with mutual cordiality.

King's robe was of cloth of gold, embroidered with multicolored silk. The embroidery is represented
all the flowers of the field and every bird of the air and all the stars of the ether. Wearing King
no less wonderful a tiara, bangles and bracelets, and earrings two round pearls each size
of a quail egg.

Her hair fell in curls over the back perfumed, and his beard was menudísimos curls, artistic
and symmetrically arranged. Her dress and delicate fragrance him goodbye. Despite my severely,
I could not but admire the fineness of the King Nanar, and confessed, back in myself, that was
the most comm'il faut that I had tried in my life.

The King I stayed in his palace, I gave lavish parties, and I was distracted in such a way that
almost made me forget the object of my mission. We had a concert and a dance, and a dinner
style that gave Baltasar many years later. I did not dare to ask King what he had done in Parsondes.
I did not understand that a man so excellent, that he entertained and regaled guests with elegance
and courtesy that, had been killed or had in hard captivity of my dear teacher.

Finally, one night I plucked up all my restraint and resolve, and told Nanar, on behalf the
King my master, who at the time was going to say where was the virtuoso Parsondes if not want
to lose the kingdom and life.

Nanar, instead of answering, he brought the point to all cantatrice the Bayadere and was in
the palace: it is understood that off-campus, harem or whatever you
call, reserved for their wives.

The Milita such priestesses moved from nine hundred, and were the most beautiful and skillful
that could hardly be found in all Asia. The girls came dancing, singing and playing flute, finger
cymbals and harps, it was a matter of taste to see them and hear them. I sat rapt. Nanar he said,
and here was the more my amazement:

- Behold the holy Parsondes among these women.

Parsondes, come here and greet your former student.

Went out from the center of that crowd one female, were it not for the beard, had could be confused
with women. He wore black painted eyebrows, eyelids blue, in order to shine more eyes and
cheeks covered with lipstick. It was all perfumed her dress was almost as rich as the King, his
effeminate and languid gait, his ears hung exquisite earrings, from his throat a necklace of pearls
encircled her forehead a wreath of flowers. It was the same Parsondes, who threw her arms around
his neck.

- I am, I said, well other than he was before.

Return, if you want to Susa, but do not say I live it, that wizards do not be offended, and to continue
taking a recent example of holiness to appeal. Nanar avenged my rough and unkempt making me
a prisoner under and sending me soaping and scrubbing with a scouring pad. After washing my continued
and perfuming twice a day, giving me a hitch, and forcing me to be with all these bright young
ladies, where I ended up forgetting my Zoroaster and austere preaching, and convinced that in
this life time we must have the best possible without engaging in
the lives of others.

Care Agenos kill the donkey, and none more so than who mixes in censoring
the vices of others, if only it lacks the opportunity to into them,
or when, if they have not fallen, it must be out of ignorance, bad
taste and rustiqueza.

I put my hands on the ears to hear such blasphemy from the mouth of that wise admirable. I was
desperate and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points and collar of shameless
rascal, but to avoid scandalous gossip, I decided to advise the school
of wizards to continue arguing that Parsondes had risen to the empyrean,
and to continue venerating his image, without discovering never before
flatly denying that he lived with Parsondes the dancers of Babylon
in the palace of Nanar.

In this awoke from my dream and I turned to find my poor house of
this court.

- I think, added our friend to finish his story, with
less wealth and less cost can the day Nanar seduce upbraideth Parsondes
that immorality and vices, moved, not charity, but of envy.

Those who are not sure of the virtue and fortitude of mind must therefore
be more lenient with Nanar.

Woe to him who boasts virtue without one probadísima!

Blessed are those who practice it and shut up!

THE PREHISTORIC BERMEJINO

OR BLUE SALAMANDER

I

I've always been fond of science. When young, I had a thousand other hobbies, but now I am
old, the prevailing scientific hobby and triumphs in my soul. Unfortunately or Fortunately it
happens to me something very singular. I like science inversely delas truths they are showing
exactly. So I just am interested in sciences, and inaccurate I love. Hence my penchant for
philosophy.

It is the truth that appeals to me, but the effort of speech, of subtlety and imagination which is
used to discover the truth, but undetected.

Once discovered truth, well proven and patent, usually leave me cold. Thus, a gallant young man,
when you go down the street in pursuit of a woman whose walk gracefully
and whose waist you excited, then come on, the look at his face and
sees that it is old, or one-eyed, or have nosed monkey.

The man would also be a cabinet if he knew the truth, but truth to be pretty. It quiet in their
possession and enjoyment would be silly. Better, then, we know little. What matters is knowing
enough to appear or be discerned the mystery, and never enough for an explanation or clarification.
Thus curiosity is aroused, comes alive fantasy and make up theories, dogmas and other witticisms,
entertain and comfort us during our earthly existence, all of which
would lack, being a thousand times more unhappy pure rude if we were
not present the mystery, or if we managed to unravel a pure business
his deep and true meaning.

Among these inexact sciences, which so delight me, there is a very in vogue now, which is subject my
favorite. I speak of prehistory.

I, not knowing whether I am right, divided into two parts this science. One that I would call geological
prehistory, is based on the discovery of skulls, cops, arrows and spears, stew and other gadgets,
involving scholars who are of an age very remote, called stone. This prehistoric amuses me so, and has,
I see far fewer sets you will hear that call philological prehistory, based on the study of
primitive language and documents written in them are preserved.

This is the prehistory makes me more grace.

What variety of opinions!

What acute guesswork! With what art are arranged and sorted facts to fit the system that shapes
every wise! And all civilization born in Egypt, and the Acadia in the center of Asia, and comes
from India, and a continent called Lemuria, which sank in the deep sea, the South, between Africa
and Asia, and from another continent, that between Europe and America and was called Atlantis.

On
the primitive language, as well as the primitive civilization, is still disputed. Up it was
a dispute over whether or were several languages: that is, whether the men began to spread around
the world Alal, or say, still speechless, and in flocks, and then were inventing different
languages ​​in different places, or whether they spoke before the
dispersion and all a single language.

My itching to browse induce me to read how many new books come out on this subject which are not
few, and the more wrong-headed they are, things looks the multitude
of the timid, the more I enjoy these books.

In recent days the books I read are contrary to the Aryans, the Egyptians, of the Semites and other
nations and castes, that went by the civilizing degree superior. If the old books have argued
that civilization, such as sunlight, spread from East to West, these new books claim that
spread in the opposite direction from West to East. All knowledge of the Magi from Iran and
from Shinar, from the Brahmins the banks of the Ganges, the priests of Isis and Osiris, of the initiated
in Samothrace and the towns of Phoenicia and Phrygia, is worth nothing compared to the knowledge
of certain Gauls primitive light whose center was in a prehistoric
Paris.

The Gauls and their bards and druids, poets and priests taught him everything but his own, science
and reflection was not confusing and I remember full of science possessed, in the center of fertile
and beautiful country now called France, before the coming of the Celts, men more primitive and excellent
call or protoscitas Hyperborean.

But what language they spoke these protoscitas or Hyperborean, the center and focus of civilization
was a Paris of the past six or seven thousand years at least?

Spoke the language Euskara, Basque populace. Where had they come? They had come from Atlantis,
which sank. What knowledge did they have? They had all the knowledge we have today and many more
that have been darkened by of fables and other trifles. Thus, the arimaspes, who had one eye
and looked the sky, astronomers were then, they already knew the telescope, and the arrow that
Abaris was riding from one end to another of the earth, was the balloon
or a device to fly and compass direction, etc.., etc., etc. It is
understood that the time of the arimaspes and the decadence Abaris
are Hyperborean civilization.

I confess that I loved this whole system. It is not my purpose to expose here. Step flying on it
and go to my issue.

Say, however, which I loved for two reasons. This is the first how much I like France. How is
natural that the seeds of European civilization was born and flourished from old, in that fertile
and rich garden soil at the privileged, not in Mesopotamia or on the banks of the Nile? And the
second reason, that I have friends in Gipuzkoa, which shall rejoice much if it is proved that their
language and caste were instrumental that he used to kill Providence barbarism, illuminating the
world and indoctrinate other nations.

Much rejoice at this, if still alive, as I wish, my learned friend of mine and D. Joaquin Irizar
and Moya, who has written remarkable works on the Basque language, throwing trip the Erros, Larramendis
and Astarloas! Something he will use the brand-new inventions give more force to your system, arranged
so that fit and fit in with the most perfect Catholic orthodoxy.

Anyway, for me it is clear that before the Celts penetrated into Spain, the Phoenicians, the
Greeks and other nations, was in Spain a civilized people, we call
the Iberians.

These people spread across our peninsula, and even had colonies in Sardinia, Italy and elsewhere,
as William Humboldt has shown. Were Basque and spoke the language Euskara. The most cultured
nation and state and illustrious among them was the republic of turdetanos, who, according
to the testimony of Strabo, had laws and cute lyrics and poems in
verse, had six thousand years old.

However, the alphabets and Turdetano Celtiberian that reconstructed and publishes Don Luis José
Velázquez, are very modern compared to the date cited above. These scripts are a reflection of
the Phoenician or Greek, and it should be assumed therefore, that
before coming to Spain Greeks and Phoenicians, had turdetanos its
own alphabet, which they wrote their poems and other works.

In my view, Mr. D. Manuel de Gongora y Martinez has had the glory of discovering the alphabet. See
inscriptions Antiques Osiris in prehistoric Andalucía, de la Cueva of signs and other caves and
hiding places, some of which are near the site of Villabermeja, a
place that I've tried to make famous as its most conspicuous inhabitant
D. Juan Fresco.

Within walking distance there is a site Villabermeja that the Laderon
last name, where every day discovered remains and relics of an ancient
and flourishing city.

The learned and sagacious antique D. Aureliano Fernandez War there was evidence Favència, time
of the Roman city that was called much earlier Vescio.

Don Juan Fresco, excited his curiosity and fueled his tireless activity,
since the Mr. Gongora, publishing in 1868 his Antiquities, put on
the track, has been to seek Cave written signs and other landmarks
that are near Vescio, and has found and assembled in much copy.

Emulate Champollion Figeac, Anquetil Duperron, Burnouf, Grotefend, Oppert and Lassen, my referral
D. Friend Juan Fresco believes he has decoded these primitive scrawl Iberian, such as those other
wise, the hieroglyphs, cuneiform writing and other recesses.

I'm not trying to advocate here by the discovery of my namesake and countryman and demonstrate
the obvious. This we will do it in your day. I will limit myself to relate a story that Don
Juan Fresco says he read some entries similar to the Cave of the signs. Understood letters,
it seems that the other is flat, because the language is almost primitive
Iberian Basque now.

I regret not give here the exact translation of the original text. Don Juan Fresco did not
want communicate it. I will, therefore, breaks the narrative with explanations and comments
interspersed that he has done. Not otherwise be understood.

The story is relatively modern, for, as my friend, have yet to discover legends and stories
in Proto-Iberian, oldest and most venerable Egyptian poem Pentaur about a feat or Rans Sesostris
II, and that the poems found by our known Mr. Layard diplomat in the library of Ashurbanipal
in Nineveh archaic poems and eight centuries BC, and translated most of the sacred language of the
Akkadians, then so dead like Latin with us now.

And this should not wonder, because according Roisel at The Atlantis, all culture comes from these,
before been in Chaldea, Assyria, in Egypt or at any point of the East.

It is unfortunate that we still have no documents of the Golden Age or Golden Age of Atlantic
Parisian literature of place some eight thousand years, or the emanation of that bética culture,
implemented by the banks of the Guadalquivir turdetanos.

The document found, deciphered, explained and commented by Don Juan Fresco is relatively time fresh,
as it were of yesterday morning. Iberian and indigenous culture had declined and Spain were full
of even Phoenician and Greek colonies. Those had already founded Zazinto Sagunto, and for over a century
they founded the Tyre to Malaga, Abdera, Hispalis and Gades.

It was for the years 1000, BC vulgar, on more or less.

II

Vescio was an important city of the Confederation of Turduli. At the time we mean, the vescianos
already had the same quality as the day their descendants have been
dictation bermejinos valid: almost all were blond and some candles.

Stood out among all as fair as well as handsome and dashing, elegant and noble young man Mutileder.
Sling shot and killed extraordinary ability to planes passing stones flying, riding on horseback, drove
a car like few war, he knew by heart best verses composed turdetanos and also very regular,
with a club in the powerful was a tremendous right hand man, with women was sweeter than a arropía
and more without gall a dove, ran like a deer, fighting tooth and nail as bears, and had another
crowd of clothes that were recommended. You can almost ensure that his only fault was being poor.

Mutileder,
lost his father and mother, had no urban land and rustic, lived as love staying with his uncles, and
Vescio did not know what used to make a living. Was a man, as they
say, without a job or benefit.

And was bordering on twenty-four, and tired of this life, and longing
to see the world, called blessing to his uncles, who were accompanied
by some the money, and also taking weapons and horse, Vescio left
to seek adventure and how to improve the condition.

As Mutileder presence was so beautiful, and it was also nice and happy, everywhere was very pleasing.
The bells sugetos of fancy and he was invited to dances and parties
and the funniest ladies and haughty eyes put her love, but he was
good, prudish and simpleton, and took out anything useful from this.

The money they gave him his uncles was consumed, and no new money
came to replace him. 

Thus, stopping in different populations, for
example, Igábron, passing then Síngilis today Genil, entering the
land of the turdetanos, and also stopping Ventipo, came to a place
of Bastulos Aratispi was then called, and I suspect he be the Alora
of our time, as famous for their games plains. There was Mutileder
a cousin who was a sun of beauty, with eighteen years of age, and
fairer than he, if fits. This premium is called Echeloría. His father,
widowed and very wealthy, the idolized.

Mutileder and Echeloría were
pure Iberian breed, without any mixture of Celts and Phoenicians.
Their families, or better say his family, he was one of them, he boasted,
not without reason, descent from the primitive Atlanteans who had
migrated many centuries ago, when sank into the sea of ​​Atlantis,
and, going a long sea, had led Egypt culture, civilization long before
the issue of Osiris, while others, known after the name of Hyperborean,
landing in France, had spread the light and founded flourishing States,
walking to the East to the mountains beyond Rifeas, and influencing,
Finally, in the awakening to political life and cult of the Aryans
and Semites.

In short, Echeloría and Mutileder were two illustrious
and worthy of being on their merits.

Just met, they loved ... What
say you loved? Fall in love to each of the other and the other one.

Echeloría's
father, who had nothing to dull, then noticed the girl's love and
tried to kill him, because the cousin had no other assets to his passionate
heart; but Echeloría was really in love, and the father, who at heart
was a blessed, agreed and resigned after Mutileder aspired to be his
son.

Both lovers swear eternal fidelity. "Rather die than be different,"
she said.

CHAPTER IX

THE BLACK PEOPLE OF THE SKY

Whether or not the great owl went on shouting O look! look! look! and asking What's that? and
Who's that? all night, Martin did not know. He was fast asleep until the morning sun shone
on his face and woke him, and as he had no clothes and shoes to put on he was soon up and out.
First he took a drink of water, then, feeling very hungry he went back to the place where he
had found the ripe fruit and made a very good breakfast. After that he set out once more through
the wood towards sunrise, still following the stream. Before long the wood became still more
open, and at last to his great joy he found that he had got clear of it, and was once more
on the great open plain. And now the hills were once more in sight--those great blue hills
where he wished to be, looking nearer and larger than before, but they still looked blue like
great banks of cloud and were a long distance away. But he was determined to get to them, to
climb up their steep sides, and by and by when he found the stream bent away to the south,
he left it so as to go on straight as he could to the hills. Away from the water-side the ground
was higher, and very flat and covered with dry yellow grass. Over this yellow plain he walked
for hours, resting at times, but finding no water and no sweet roots to quench his thirst,
until he was too tired to walk any further, and so he sat down on the dry grass under that
wide blue sky. There was not a cloud on it--nothing but the great globe of the sun above him;
and there was no wind and no motion in the yellow grass blades, and no sight or sound of any
living creature.

Martin lying on his back gazed up at the blue sky, keeping his eyes from the sun, which was
too bright for them, and after a time he did see something moving--a small black spot no bigger
than a fly moving in a circle. But he knew it was something big, but at so great a height from
the earth as to look like a fly. And then he caught sight of a second black speck, then another
and another, until he could make out a dozen or twenty, or more, all moving in wide circles
at that vast height.

Martin thought they must be the black people of the sky; he wondered why they were black and
not white, like white birds, or blue, and of other brilliant colours like the people of the Mirage.

Now it was impossible for Martin to lie like that, following those small black spots on the
hot blue sky as they wheeled round and round continuously, without giving his eyes a little
rest by shutting them at intervals. By-and-by he kept them shut a little too long; he fell
asleep, and when he woke he didn't wake fully in a moment; he remained lying motionless just
as before, with eyes still closed, but the lids just raised enough to enable him to see about
him. And the sight that met his eyes was very curious. He was no longer alone in that solitary
place. There were people all round him, dozens and scores of little black men about two feet
in height, of a very singular appearance. They had bald heads and thin hatchet faces, wrinkled
and warty, and long noses; and they all wore black silk clothes--coat, waistcoat and knickerbockers,
but without shoes and stockings; their thin black legs and feet were bare; nor did they have
anything on their bald heads. They were gathered round Martin in a circle, but a very wide
circle quite twenty to thirty feet away from him, and some were walking about, others standing
alone or in groups, talking together, and all looking at Martin. I
was well supplied with arms and ammunition; Chisco too, and me living at home, and to Chorcos,
and take care to tell me in time for him to stay to ensure the pretext the serious condition
of Mr. Celso. No longer fancy that, instead of waiting for the robbers in the doorway of the house,
they could put together an ambush in the immediate rocks it and shoot at close range as the door
is placed along the three. But this plan was less "Conclusive" than the other, and was exposed
to bankruptcy that they could get out faces of the assailants, much as we attend to justice, by all divine
and human laws. Still yet will weigh and would measure both plans if the case came in due time,
and opt for the better.

This and more I pondered mechanically by tacking inside the house after have fired the doctor.
Dando, suddenly, well, the point then, I decided to see how he was my uncle of his mortal anguish.
But I went in his room without a trace before one of the glass in the door into the sunshine
through the dining room. The continued darkening sky and the sparkling snow thickens. I liked
the symptom. My uncle, though between continuous feigned coughing, seemed calmer, and slept.
Facia, sitting away from him and attentive to whatever might happen, after I had I referred
to sick tiptoed to the bed, his eyes told me:

- Well it going, eh?

To which I responded with another look and a gesture

- From the best.

But God knows that neither the question nor the answer referred to the condition of the patient,
but the temporal aspect.

They spent two hours with no inside or outside the house occurred novelty worthy of being noticed,
and came, but without the usual noise, Lita and her mother and even the Don Pedro Nolasco. The
ups and downs, relatively happy, in a dark drama that unfolded, and walk around in those aged
area, much the spirit lifted me. Came three characters deeply impressed by the news that had given
them Neluco. The giant Greeting all, I shook hands in silence, with two tremendous shock that
soon I dismantle the arm at the shoulder, his granddaughter and his daughter, his eyes misted
over, I asked, loosened as they began to shelters, and in a low voice a little shaky, news drawer
on the current state of my uncle. Tell him, not as bad as they expected them and this encouraged
them to come very quietly to the door of the bedroom. Since there were watching the battle
that did not stop within the ruins of Don Celso, between the dream you drowsy and coughing he insisted,
until it rolled over in bed in one of those clashes, which left half suffocated, mouth and
eyes wide open and collecting air breathing, even with their hands. Then he hid quickly, almost
jumping in the Hall, and did both to me, not lost sight of the grief and sympathy painted on
the face. To all this, Don Pedro Nolasco, standing, rigid, motionless and silent, in the same
place that had been planted at the door. Access soon passed, and turned fall ill in the morass
of before ... But what the hell I saw that I was captivated Lituca more attention at that
time that the shock of his grandfather and the plight of my uncle? What was in it again and strange
to me? Well, quite simply, tears their eyes and pained expression on his boyish face, and
I wondered as I left my doubts: "But when this girl is cuter? "When he laughs and gurgles as the
birds the mountain, without sorrow or care, or feel, as now, in the
absence of pain themselves, compassion that will inspire others?

" And not knowing which of these two extremes to choose, I remained with the two, because it's
true that laughing or crying, I was really cute creature.

Fearing that too much impressed with frequent contemplation of that distressing picture human
misery, so new to her, advised her to refrain from entering the room the patient. To which
I replied with a force resolution to be imposed:

- Well, now you have to do, Don Marcelo! ... Go! Go! ... Do you think I am of fuss, just in
case? I will not say that at first I shrink a little, but then ... Go! Go! And finally, for the
chances are the mighty, and now or never. On my Poor Mr. Don Celso! ...

- Leave it, leave it - I said almost the same time the rosy Mari Pepa, throwing the last their coats
on a chair floating on top of which had just shed Lituca -, let in and out whenever you want,
which is good jacerse all, as she will jiciendo because I know it well. When you have to hold
off on that point, is to my father. Cayouette the news as a rock in the neck, and aturdióse as Nah,
you see him. I did not know if leaving home or bring; but vile Roncero of being alone and very
arrimao to cum, and jícele your taste, it was also ours, because it placed here, it may take
more or less to return home, and better than nowhere will the venturao with us wherever it
is. What is it's aterecío coldness, is not it, father? And look in the kitchen there is good
light, do not you, don Marcelo? Nah, you depart and be more of these things that Amurrio and
intimidate, while acompañao be fine with going in and out ... and
by the way, look that adds good for Tona what the ollon great that
we are three more mouths ... Daughter, what silly occur to one when
do not know what he says or take the times as they come!

Entendióme "So, Father? ... And Nah, you, Don Marcelo, what you have paez of this mine, as
if you were in my house?

Everything seemed fine, until the style, and taking precautions to avoid being Mari Pepa patient's
hearing and decision of Lituca, and in particular, face to put to declarármela. I drove myself
to the kitchen at Don Pedro Nolasco, who was left fetch and carry like a child confused, and
I sat on the couch in my uncle, leaving the care of Tona and Chisco,
which was around then, with orders to entertain him and encouraged
... and gave him the eat as much as requested, if asked.

I would return there often, and the ladies they would also from time to time. In the meantime, lots
of wood by hand and constantly good fire.

Before leaving the kitchen, I looked out the door cristalejos giving the balconazo of that
facade, and saw the colored clouds still blackening and whitening and a little peaks in front and
to the prairies of the valley by some sites.

When I go into my uncle, and had seized him and his surrounding Lituca and his mother, and
sent to their regular chores Facia, not being necessary their presence there then. In ordering
furniture, clothes and bottles and bottles of potions, straightened rugs and mats, which were
plentiful in the soil, graduated and headed in light of the paneled window and coming in the
door so not to give in full in the face of sick, and he even cleaned the cold, clammy sweat that
glistened on his forehead, and he arranged covers and pillows, but this, as well as when working
out, without make noise or raising dust or cause the slightest mortification to the patient.
I was glad contemplate that beneficent fairy work. My uncle, choking cough, awakening some sometimes
from their slumber, opened his eyes, his gaze fell upon us hampered
and voracious, and again then closed them to fall back into slumber.

When taking advantage of these joints to give a few sips of broth or "scoop" medicinal "he corresponded"
Tomabal between groans and angry protests stammered.

About noon it cleared a bit and we pondered much how bad it was. Came in Neluco this, and not
by courtesy tried to convince them otherwise.

But he urged to carry with patience her work, since he was not required unless a man of his faith
and his belt.

To which I replied the patient, with all the ire he could find in the pile of own ruins:

- Do you still get something of NA paez my patience, condenao? With the mita of what I have loved
you I see mediquín, quacks of demons, to see which side Put them ... Well man! ...

Intervened all inclusive Neluco to calm him down, and calmed down soon, but not the least said
idea of ​​preparing for death. On this point the doctor had been
very upset.

He said, bid farewell to Don Sabas was absent from the place, helping the dying of another people whose
pastor was ill. Upon hearing he had sent a self, but as to the people had many sticks on the way
to measure and the snow was thickening by the minute, although Don Sabas would try not to lose
one when he heard what was happening in the house, Were you to know what time the evening
was coming, and if you arrive on time and!

Not to get too close to the giant of the table Castañalera impressed him so sadly, ate with
him at all lazy in the kitchen, served by Tona, while his mother
kept the patient.

That was not so tasty food for me and I did not forget other, rather than so recent date,
so elated that made those two diners in the latter, somewhat out of respect for the sadness
'official' of the house, and more for the pain the reasons for the sadness that I gave, ate
little and spoke less.

Less talked about yet they, don Pedro Nolasco, who never said a word, but, instead, what engulf
his so great!

Before we finished eating, we learned from Facia the patient had fallen asleep again and that "the snow
was trapeu so again, that was gustu." I remembered the absence of Don Sabas and the need to made
by my uncle, and I received the news with much pleasure as felt by the mother to give me Tona.

According
ran the afternoon, clutching the storm and the anxieties of the patient, was still struggling with
them eyes closed and unaware, apparently, of what was happening. God knows what we are worried
that these symptoms and was eager to insinuate what Neluco wanted, since it is not anticipated
to hint at, but what good would Overture while we did not hand the Priest? These questions and
subsequent questions, was the dark, a little after four, with a trio of snow on the valley
and snow thick and continuous and was alarmed me much, because supposed to Don Sabas on the
way and thought the dangers that could run. Meanwhile, the kitchen is filled little by little people
came to hear of Don Celso and volunteer for all sorts of chores around the house in those test
hours, and I do not dislike me so well together on the occasion of
so much trouble.

A Don Pedro Nolasco was happening the same, and even began to talk with fellow members and Laughing
allowed certain predictions about the disease and almost bit old friend your soul ... precisely
at the moment my uncle out of his stupor and after persistent to tour the room with dazed eyes, said
to distress of breathing, as if you could fit in the chest and an
air bubble to another without having vacated the same:

- Now ...
now is to really leave, my children, and prepare to travel to every
rule.

Charity make me tell the priest that I call for what he knows ... if there is any of packages that
I distinguish badly from here, because I do not know if the little light in the room, or because
it has started to fade and my eyes ... Sabas! ... Sabas! ...

All those present heard and callábamos, and we looked at each other not knowing what to say.
How to tell the priest was not in the house or in town? ... But so what obfuscation absurd it
was! What problem was to entertain the impatience, responding who had come to tell and that
was about to arrive?

This was going to answer me the same time I approached his bed with
Lita and Mari-Pepa, made a sea of ​​tears as Facia was leaning against
the back wall with his arms folded, head bent over chest and eyes,
dry, saddened and still, stuck in the face of his corpse master, when
he returned to exclaim, but with a verve inconceivable in its miserable
state:

- Sabas!

Sabas! ...

By this I heard a harsh beating, as the result of Carrejo in the Hall,
and at the same time a voice that would respond to strong calls:

-
There he goes, jinojo!

...

I knew the voice, jumped back to the door, and saw that the lounge was up package that the
same could be a mountain jaral as should be all those moments, a gauge and hombrazo talares
Don Sabas, for he was snowed head and shoulders and everywhere I looked out a relief, however
little, Espido in their long and garments, and go and shake the very attempt, threw in soil dusty
snow falls, as falls from Matos shakes and shakes when the raging gale. I went to meet him and
shake to help wipe ... nothing, because of two detached bativoleos floating everything dripped
on him. This was, in a jiffy, smooth and mondo from head to toe, that is, short jacket and hair.
While it was stripped of those wraps and accessories, he said:

- Ah! because thanks to the gray horse has more guts than Paez, and was able to footman that
I carried him halfway to the legs, if not ... Jinojo! I tell thee that we do not live none of
the three, because I have seen snow as I live, but like this, go, go! ... What happens to poor
Don Celso, man? When I went there I say, not me took fright, because I was afraid I was coming
every day. The worst part was that he dying person, not just unhappy, and it was not to abandon
him in such a trance ... Well Care if you get for not finishing in the afternoon of God ... To all
this, the snow thick and closed roads. Look you what time to put this one in the agony! ... If what
Satan JINCEN the tooth for the souls, is much story! A well that it was not for lack of mine
warnings, but this Celsus, to be as a man of faith, is inherently so ...

All that we said already, and I almost cried, the better the cure
to his bedroom door friend, where he interrupted a call disjointed
reasoning as before.

- Sabas!

Sabas!

- Here I am, man! "- Replied the priest -.

Care is the subject! ... Look, with the rush better Sallu not you have them now ...

- That's it - my uncle grumbled -. For comfort of my ajogos, tíñeme and vociférame, pispajo!

-
Do you have to fight, man, do you have to fight! - Don Sabas said to him then that face of those
miserable ruins of his friend and comrade of his life, failed to contain the tears that flowed in
his eyes - or how I will scream! ... Well then would Thus, jinojo! ... but as I came, I could not
come, because of force majeure. And just think you then! Figúratelo, Celso! ... Go - added suddenly
interrupting his speech and passing look around the room and accented with a movement of his
arms, very significant -: here on all but the patient and me, because
what will happen between us, not support one other witness, who is
Lord and Judge of lives and souls.

We leave those who don Sabas sobrábamos and closed the door from inside.

I do not know what went through me then, but I declare that I was very touched and even cried,
hiding much like a weakness unworthy of strong men.

They came the tears shameful "the spread of other more free? Were torn my heart with grief to
see that, my relative in a state so miserable and compassionate? Am the produce that strange
scene he had just witnessed between the priest and the sick, through whose coarse warp distances
left to seek grants and admirable? Might have on them some of each and every one of these ingredients,
but the fact is that I cried, but not as well as women who gathered
with me, as they were entering on tiptoe the room where we were many
of the pundits in the kitchen that had been amassed in Carrejo after
the arrival of the priest, transfixed with grief ... and curiosity.

Facia The light bulb had lit in the bedroom to get out of it, and still kept in hand, lit up a little darkened
those jaws, and so I could glimpse of clogged, materially, huddled figures and oscillating looked
at us with impatience greedy, and even I could have sworn that back in the background, behind
all the mass, but rising one elbow on the head of more Tallud glistened
like two lanterns in a tunnel, big eyes giant green and bulging of
the Castañalera.

XXVII

After a while I asked Mari Pepa many things which, in its view, would be necessary there very soon.
I, delegating to her and her daughter had many responsibilities at home delivered them to the few
keys which he kept, and sent to Facia to put on your orders the rest. To send well and soon they
planned, it was necessary to return commentators to the kitchen, scattered herds here or there,
all choked ... and stank, and there was no way to squirm between
them.

They did so to point at my command, and the two women began to raid cupboards, wardrobes and drawers.
Facia guided, and I was like an automaton at three.

While ransacked the bottom drawer of the dresser in my room, opened
the door to my uncle Don Sabas and appeared in the hole.

I noticed that out crying and ran to him fearing that already completed all there, but since
I heard coughing halfway to the sick, and this was reassuring. Salióme to meet the priest,
and he said, wiping her eyes with a handkerchief of grass:

- Can not help it, what jinojo! ... more than one is accustomed to contemplate miseries and human finishers
... Because there are cases and cases, Don Marcelo, and this is one of the peel harder for the
poor priest. Sixty years of living, more than friends, like brothers, and each in his ministry
... And care if it was his height! ... something rejunde in the bowels ... it seems to me ... Suddenly
he says to the other one: "I go, because I'm leaving ... and never to return: so you ajústame
these accounts that I have to give to God, through you Mesmer how much I owe and how little and
bad that I have paid ... and you stay here, man and alone, until you get yours, you can not
take because no one is old, and you'll see what is jallarte day after day without longtime friend,
who looked and flesh of your flesh and filled the whole place, although he did not see him
... " Nah, you go and, moreover, namely if getting one's own, and catch him or catch him Asao,
because the flesh is weak, and Satan not sleeping, and if, for shots or TATS, we find ourselves
not in the other world. Because it goes well for luggage ... Yes, jinojo! and right as a juso
has to raise the soul. At the human level can not be assumed otherwise, to the preparation
he has done, after a life of charity, that I know by heart ... In
short, that it is going, and that we should not sleep to make all
the missing in the trance you see ... You have to viatical immediately,
and for that I go to church now.

Note here that is expected God with the pomp that is owed.

They had taken their talares to the kitchen to dry by the fire, and the priest go to pick them
up made people gathered in her the same advice as I am, and then dragged him, Chisco and Pito
least Salces, who ordered me to stay "watching the house, what might happen. " Precautions
idle luxury at that hour (around seven), with a dark as pitch, dropping
handfuls of snow, and with a roaring gale up the mountain, which were
scary.

Without worrying much about the poor Marmitón, who was left alone again, lounging, dumb and
amazed at the wooden chair and very leaning to fire, and returned to the apartment of my uncle
see what was going on it after the departure of Don Sabas. It was already known anyone interior,
and even now continue to be transformed by the two tales of the house. In the bedside, the red
damask quilt of the great days, and back on it, the broad and embroidery fold of a sheet of luxury
pillows, with pockets of very large garrisons stiff and escarole, and the patient himself,
with camisole clean, heated just before the brazier and perfumed with thyme, on the elastic thick
coat that harbored the trunk, along to bed, a carpet mat instead of forever on the dresser, falling
in graceful flags on the sides, another quilt of good house, and on it, expecting better destination,
the ivory crucifix, six silver candlesticks, a glass of holy water
and a sprig bay.

When I arrived, they occupied the two women who appeared to be little devils in your hands,
to replace, helped to Facia, the junk that was always at the bedside, with a square table taken from
my closet, where I used to read and send my correspondence. Ofrecíles my help for that task, but
the disdain with gestecillo Lita very deliberate and two annealed complimentary phrases. While
it took the ailing Facia artifact, tended them on the table another red damask quilt and the
quilt on a very white piece of cloth with lace of many drafts, then moved to the comfortable
at the table the crucifix of ivory, four glass candlesticks and holy water and the sprig of laurel;
then another rug in front of the table, then all strips and arenas that were found to form a
path so long as he could, four beatings on chairs before them in order, a pat over the bed
clothes, a look from afar to the whole so many different things ...
and what was already shipped.

My uncle, meanwhile, gasping and coughing and passing among the gnarled fingers of his right hand
beads and more beads of the rosary, and pray that says through clenched teeth, not take notice
what was happening around him, or answer more than a gesture to the
smaller question vinegary that he did.

Before he died his body was already in another world with the spirit. God was, God was God's only
expected.

I finished fourth, another work was undertaken outside nastier, for which not enough single
women. Mari Pepa scattered on the floor quilts and shawls that had gathered looting and walked
in a mass on the chairs, Lita chose and combined colors and sizes, Salces Pete and I, perched
on tall furniture needed, clavábamos in walls, and as high as we could, studded with spikes ...
up with nails "Trabaderos" and how we could have at hand in the cellar
weep holes that Chisco accumulated stocks of this species, which the
diligent and poring granddaughter of giant Castañalera of us was exquisite
lengthening with his hands, as scattered on the floor.
He listened until the sound of heavy hoofs and the long cries of the man had died away in the
distance; then the silence and darkness terrified him, and he struggled to get out, but the
reeds grew so close together that before he had pushed a dozen yards through them he sank down,
unable to do more.

The air was hot and close and still down there on the ground, but by leaning his head back,
and staring straight up he could see the pale night sky sprinkled with stars in the openings
between the dry leaves and spikes of the reeds. Poor Martin could do nothing but gaze up at
the little he could see of the sky in that close, black place, until his neck ached with the
strain; but at last, to make him hope, he heard a sound--the now familiar long shrill cry of
the wild man. Then, as it came nearer, the sound of tramping hoofs and neighing of the horses
was heard, and the cries and hoof-beats grew louder and then fainter in turns, and sounded
now on this side, now on that, and he knew that they were looking for him. "I'm here, I'm here,"
he cried; "oh, dear horses, come and take me away!" But they could not hear him, and at last
the sound of their neighing and the wild long cries died away altogether, and Martin was left
alone in that black silent place.

CHAPTER XI

THE LADY OF THE HILLS

No escape was possible for poor little Martin so long as it was dark, and there he had to stay
all night, but morning brought him comfort; for now he could see the reed-stems that hemmed
him in all round, and by using his hands to bend them from him on either side he could push
through them. By-and-by the sunlight touched the tops of the tall plants, and working his way
towards the side from which the light came he soon made his escape from that prison, and came
into a place where he could walk without trouble, and could see the earth and sky again. Further
on, in a grassy part of the valley, he found some sweet roots wrhich greatly refreshed him,
and at last, leaving the valley, he came out on a high grassy plain, and saw the hills before
him looking very much nearer than he had ever seen them look before. Up till now they had appeared
like masses of dark blue banked up cloud resting on the earth, now he could see that they were
indeed stone--blue stone piled up in huge cliffs and crags high above the green world; he could
see the roughness of the heaped up rocks, the fissures and crevices in the sides of the hills,
and here and there the patches of green colour where trees and bushes had taken root. How wonderful
it seemed to Martin that evening standing there in the wide green plain, the level sun at his
back shining on his naked body, making him look like a statue of a small boy carved in whitest
marble or alabaster. Then, to make the sight he gazed on still more enchanting, just as the
sun went down the colour of the hills changed from stone blue to a purple that was like the
purple of ripe plums and grapes, only more beautiful and bright. In a few minutes the purple
colour faded away and the hills grew shadowy and dark. It was too late in the day, and he was
too tired to walk further. He was very hungry and thirsty too, and so when he had found a few
small white partridge-berries and had made a poor supper on them, he gathered some dry grass
into a little heap, and lying down in it, was soon in a sound sleep.

It was not until the late afternoon next day that Martin at last got to the foot of the hill,
or mountain, and looking up he saw it like a great wall of stone above him, with trees and
bushes and trailing vines growing out of the crevices and on the narrow ledges of the rock.
Going some distance he came to a place where he could ascend, and here he began slowly walking
upwards. At first he could hardly contain his delight where everything looked new and strange,
and here he found some very beautiful flowers; but as he toiled on he grew more tired and hungry
at every step, and then, to make matters worse, his legs began to pain so that he could hardly
lift them. It was a curious pain which he had never felt in his sturdy little legs before in
all his wanderings.

Then a cloud came over the sun, and a sharp wind sprang up that made him shiver with cold:
then followed a shower of rain; and now Martin, feeling sore and miserable, crept into a cavity
beneath a pile of overhanging rocks for shelter. He was out of the rain there, but the wind
blew in on him until it made his teeth chatter with cold. He began to think of his mother,
and of all the comforts of his lost home--the bread and milk when he was hungry, the warm clothing,
and the soft little bed with its snowy white coverlid in which he had slept so sweetly every night.

"O mother, mother!" he cried, but his mother was too far off to hear his piteous cry.

When the shower was over he crept out of his shelter again, and with his little feet already
bleeding from the sharp rocks, tried to climb on. In one spot he found some small, creeping,
myrtle plants covered with ripe white berries, and although they had a very pungent taste he
ate his fill of them, he was so very hungry. Then feeling that he could climb no higher, he
began to look round for a dry, sheltered spot to pass the night in. In a little while he came
to a great, smooth, flat stone that looked like a floor in a room, and was about forty yards
wide: nothing grew on it except some small tufts of grey lichen; but on the further side, at
the foot of a steep, rocky precipice, there was a thick bed of tall green and yellow ferns,
and among the ferns he hoped to find a place to lie down in. Very slowly he limped across the
open space, crying with the pain he felt at every step; but when he reached the bed of ferns
he all at once saw, sitting among the tall fronds on a stone, a strange-looking woman in a
green dress, who was gazing very steadily at him with eyes full of love and compassion. At
her side there crouched a big yellow beast, covered all over with black, eye-like spots, with
a big round head, and looking just like a cat, but a hundred times larger than the biggest
cat he had ever seen. The animal rose up with a low sound like a growl, and glared at Martin
with its wide, yellow, fiery eyes, which so terrified him that he dared not move another step
until the womaan, speaking very gently to him, told him not to fear. She caressed the great
beast, making him lie down again; then coming forward and taking Martin by the hand, she drew
him up to her knees.

"What is your name, poor little suffering child?" she asked, bending down to him, and speaking
softly. "Martin--what's yours?" he returned, still half sobbing, and rubbing his eyes with
his little fists.

"I am called the Lady of the Hills, and I live here alone in the mountain. What matters is to proceed with
quiet, to see all that there is no bias, no hate, no spirit of revenge, you use a right and
a duty to obey them. "Revenge impetuous, violent, frankly unfair, had not been able to achieve a
victory that has been obtained without difficulty peaceful revenge, insidious, hypocritically
disguised in the veil of reason, justice, of duty.

For this reason it is so fearful of revenge when he acts on behalf of zeal for justice. When
the heart possessed of hatred come to deceive himself, believing impulses to act of good will,
perhaps, the same love, is as subject to the fascination of a reptile whom he does not see, and
whose existence or even suspicion. So envy destroys reputations more pure and enlightened, pursues
relentless rancor, revenge is glorified in seizures and sorrow of the unfortunate victim, making
it exhausting to the dregs the pain and bitterness. The celebrated Protomártir shone by his eminent
virtues and terrify the Jews with his eloquence God, what do you think that name will envy and revenge,
dry them hearts and grind your teeth? Do you think that was the name surname is theirs? No,
in any way. These men are a scream as full of scandal, cover their ears, Deacon and slaughter
the innocent in God's name. El Salvador in the world to admire how hear him with the divine beauty
of his moral character and the wonderful stream of wisdom and love flowing from his lips Augustus
people throng to see him, and he goes about doing good; courteous to the young, compassionate
with the unfortunate, soft on the culprits, pour full hands the treasures of his omnipotence
and love, only to pronounce words of kindness and pardon, would seem to reserve the language of
a holy and terrible indignation to confuse to the hypocrites. They have found in it a majestic
look and severe, and they have corresponded with a look of snake. Jealousy is ripping the heart,
feel a burning revenge. But what will work, talk and vindictive? No, this man is a blasphemer,
say, seduce the crowd, is an enemy of Caesar, the fidelity for the public peace, religion demands
that it be removed from the middle. And he accepted the treachery of a disciple, and the innocent
Cordero will be taken to the courts, and will be questioned, and responding words of truth, the
prince of the priests will feel devoured with envy, and tear his clothes, and say "Cursed,"
and the bystanders say "it is worthy of death."

§ XL.

Precautions.

Never a man meditate much about the secrets of his heart never deployed too surveillance to save
the thousand doors where you enter your iniquity never be cautious too much against the many
pitfalls with which he is fighting to himself. Are not passions so scary when presented as they
are in themselves, speaking openly to his subject, trampling and impetuously as they are put forward.
In this case, however little is preserved in the spirit of love of virtue, if the man has not
yet come to the bottom of the corruption or the evil, feel rising in his soul a cry of horror and
indignation, as soon as it offers the service with her looks disgusting. But what dangers do
not run, if bartered names, and changed the costumes, everything is offered in disguise, upset?
if your eyes look through prisms misleading, they paint with colors and gentle Galanos However,
the blackness and monstrosity?

The greatest dangers of a pure heart are not in the brutal passions of the gross incentive but those
feelings that love for their delicacy and seduce you with her tenderness, fear does not fit
into the noble souls but with the dictates of prudence, the greed is not entered generous breasts
but with the title of foresight economy, pride takes shelter under the shadow of love of one's
dignity, and respect due to the position held: the vanity provides its little joys, vain deluding
to the urgent need know the opinion of others, to take advantage of criticism is disguised revenge
the robe of righteousness, the furor his name is holy indignation; laziness invokes their aid the
need of rest, and the gnawing envy destroy reputations, to engage in obfuscate his breath
impure the splendors of eminent merit, speaks of love of truth, of fairness, how much they should
guard against an ignorant or admiration childlike enthusiasm.

§ XLI.

Hypocrisy of the man himself.

The man used the hypocrisy to deceive himself, perhaps more than to deceive the others. Rarely given
to himself Mobile accurate account of their actions, and therefore, even in the purest virtues,
there is some dross. Entirely pure gold is not obtained but in the crucible of a perfect divine
love and that love, in all its perfection, is reserved to the heavenly realms. While living here on
earth, we have in our hearts a malignant germ or kills or weakens, or tarnish the virtuous
actions, and no small if you get to keep the germs to develop and we lost. But, in spite of
so much weakness, continues to shine in the depths of our soul that inextinguishable light on in her
by the hand of the Creator, and that light we distinguish between good and evil, serving us to guide
our steps, and regret our mistake. For this reason, we strive to deceive ourselves to not get
in too apparent contradiction with the opinion of consciousness, we covered our ears to hear
what she says, eyes closed not to see what she shows us, try us the illusion that the principle
teaches us is not applicable to this case. For this unfortunately serve the passions, insidiously
suggesting sophistical speeches.

Cuestal much the man look bad, or even their own eyes, do not dare,
it is hypocritical.

§ XLII.

The self-knowledge.

The defect referred to in the preceding paragraph has a different character in different people,
for which reason, should in no way ever losing sight of that rule of the ancients so profoundly
wise: know thyself; Nosce te ipsum. While there are certain qualities common to all men, they take
a particular character in each, each which has, so to speak, a spring that should know and
be able to handle. This spring, is necessary to discover what is in the other, to ascertain
to behave well with them, but is more necessary still discover each
one in itself.

Because there tends to be the secret of the great things and good
and bad, on account of that spring is but a propensity strong, reaching
to the others, subordinating all to an object.

This ruling passion resent all the others, she mixes in all acts
of life, it is what called character.

§ XLIII.

Man flees from himself.

If we had the unfortunate inclination to escape ourselves, if the contemplation of within us
we are not repugnant to such an extent, we would not be difficult to discover what is the passion
that we dominated. Unfortunately, no one ran away as much as ourselves, study anything less than
what we have more immediate and more interest. The generality of men down to the pit, not
only without being known to himself, but also without trying. We should be constantly looking
down on our hearts to know their tendencies, to penetrate its secrets, to restrain their impulses,
to correct his vices, avoid their wanderings, we should live with that inner life in which
man realizes their thoughts and feelings, and not put in relation to external objects, but after
having consulted his reason and his will given to the appropriate
address.

But this is not ago, the man rushes, sticks to the objects that incite, living only with the
outer life that leaves you time to think about himself. Sort are clear understandings, hearts beautiful,
do not keep for themselves any price that has enriched the the Creator, they shed, so to speak,
in streets and squares the exquisite aroma, which saved at the bottom of his heart, it could
be of comfort and gift.

Pascal referred to with great eagerness having devoted himself to mathematics and science Natural
tired of this study to find cause fewer people who can discuss on
the object of his favorite occupations.

Eager to find a subject that had not this problem is devoted to the
study of man, but soon learned from experience The study dealing with
the man were still in a lower number of fans to mathematics.

This is true now as in Pascal's time, suffice it to common men to
take to see how few are those who like such a task, mostly case themselves.

§

XLIV.

Good results reflect on the passions.

When you have acquired the habit of reflecting on their own inclinations, distinguishing the
nature and intensity of each of them, even when towing at one time or another spirit they
do not know that this violence. Maybe blind understanding, but this blindness is not set at
all to who has it, it says to himself, "you think you see, but not really see it;'re blind. "But
if man ever set his eyes on the inside, if you work according to impelled the passions without
bothering to figure out where the impulse is born; for him to become one and the same passion
and determination, intellect and instinct opinion passions.

So the reason is not only a slave mistress, instead of leading, coaching
and correcting with advice and mandates the inclinations of the heart,
is reduced to vile instrument them, and obliged to employ all the
resources of its sagacity to provide enjoyment to satisfy them.

§ XLV.

Wisdom of the Christian religion in the direction of behavior.

The Christian religion to lead moral lives close to the reflective about our inclinations,
has done a highly according to the most sound philosophy, and discovers a deep knowledge the
human heart. Experience teaches that what is missing man to do good, no is speculative and general
knowledge, but practical, detailed, with application to all acts of life. Who does not know
and does not repeat a thousand times that the passions we go astray and we lost? The difficulty
is that, but know the passion that influences this or that case,
which one usually dominates the action, in what form, under what costume
is presented to the spirit, and how attacks should be rejected, or
forestall its stratagems.

And all this, not as you want, but with a clear understanding, living, and that course is offered
both to the understanding, provided it is taking a resolution, business even more common.

The difference in the speculative sciences mediates between an ordinary man and another outstanding
is not to often but it knows clearly and accurately distinction, what that only knows one
way inaccurate, confusing and dark, not to the number of ideas but on the quality, nothing
says this about a point, that also does not have notice that, both look the same object, only
the sight of one is much more perfect than the other. The The same happens with regard to practice.
Men speak of the profoundly immoral moral, in such a way that no manifest disregard its rules,
but these rules are known them in general, without being careful to make applications, without
having noticed the obstacles that prevent them on the ground in this or that occasion, but
you can think of a way pure and alive, when offered an opportunity to make use of them. Who is
in possession of his intellect and the will, the whole man, the passions, those moral rules hold them,
so to speak, filed in the recesses of his consciousness, nor even like look at them as objects
of curiosity, afraid of finding in them the worm of remorse. By contrast, when virtue is rooted
in the soul, moral rules become a familiar idea, which accompanies all thoughts and actions,
which comes alive and stirred the lowest risk, and urges prevailing before acting, that gnaws
incessantly if the has been neglected. The continued presence under the intellectual cause of
moral rules and presence in turn helps to strengthen virtue, so that
religion does not cease inculcate, certain of which are precious seed
that will sooner or later some fruit.

§ XLVI.

Moral sentiments auxiliary virtue.

In support of ideas or moral feelings, which is also the very moral, and powerful and beautiful for God
to allow our spirit rattle and tumultuous and violent ominous storms, also wanted to provide
the soft zephyrs gentle rocking. The habit of attending to the moral rules and to obey its requirements,
develops and fuels these feelings, and then the man to follow the path of virtue, fighting inclinations
bad with the good inclinations, the struggles are not so much danger,
and especially not so painful, because a fight with another feeling
feeling, what you have to sacrifice of one is offset by the pleasure
caused by the triumph of another, and there those suffering harrowing
experience that, when reason fight with the heart all alone.

This development of moral feelings, that call in aid of under the same passions, is a powerful resource
for doing good and illustrate the understanding when you obfuscate other passions. There is opposition
in many different combinations that give excellent results. The love of pleasure is neutralized
with the love of one's dignity, excessive pride is tempered by the fear of becoming obnoxious,
vanity is tempered by fear of ridicule; laziness is stimulated by the desire of glory restrains
anger apparently not decomposed; the thirst for revenge is mitigated or terminated, with the
joy and honor that are to be generous. With this combination, with the shrewd opposition of
good feelings to the feelings bad, gently and effectively weaken
many of the germs of evil that shelters the heart human and man is
virtuous, while being sensitive.

§ XLVII.

A rule for practical trials.

Known the mainspring of their own heart, and developed as much as possible the generous and
moral sentiments, it is necessary to know how it is to direct the understanding to make guesses
in their practical judgments.

The first rule you must remember is not to judge or discuss with respect to any object while the spirit is
under the influence of passion on the same object. How offensive does not seem a fact, a word, a gesture
that just irritate! "The intention the offender, it is said the victim himself, could not be more
malignant, has been proposed not only damaged, but outrage, those present should be offended,
if not take prompt and complete revenge, to grin looming on everyone's lips would become hopelessly
in utter disregard for who has tolerated it so outrageous cover of ignominy. It should not
be broken, it is true, but is there anything more upset that the abandonment of honor? need
for caution, but this prudence should you get to the point left trampled by everyone? "Who does
this speech? Is it right? certainly not; is anger.

But the anger, say, does not run much. Yes, runs, for his service takes understanding, and this
provides you everything you need. And this service does not stop assist him in his turn the same anger,
because the passions in his moments of exaltation, fertilize wit admirably with the inspirations
that suit them.

Do we want a test that ran and who thus spoke was not the reason but anger? hela evident here.
If you think the man had something really angry, not disavow of all the bystanders. They are not
without feelings of honor, also consider much his own dignity, they know the difference between
a word spoken with plan to censure, and another breakaway unintentionally offensive, and yet
they see nothing of what the angry see so clearly, and if you smile, that smile is caused not by
the humiliation he imagine to have suffered, but by that terrible
explosion of anger, for no reason.

But still: it is not necessary to go to the bystanders to find the
truth, enough to appeal at the same anger when anger is gone.

Judge "then and now?

It is well certainly not, he will perhaps be the first to laugh at his anger and he will ask you
disguise his outburst.

§ XLVIII.

Another rule.

From these observations comes another rule, which is that when we feel under the influence of passion,
we make an effort, to suppose for a moment even in the state in which your influence there. A
similar reflection, and faster than it contributes greatly to calm passion, and to excite in
the minds different ideas suggested by the inclination blind.

The force of passion is broken, from the moment that is at variance with a thought that stirs in
the head, the secret of his victory is usually to turn off all contrary to them, and brightening favorable.
But as soon as attention is has led to another order of ideas, is the comparison, and therefore
ceases exclusivity. Meanwhile other forces are developed intellectual and moral unsubordinated
to passion, and it loses its original energy by having to share power with other life Before desfrutar
alone.

Advised the media not only the experience of their success, but also
a legitimate reason in the nature of our organization.

The intellectual and moral faculties never exercise operate without some of the material organs.
Now, between bodily organs are distributed a number of vital forces alternately enjoyed greater
or lesser degree, and therefore to decrease in the one, when there is increased in others.
This being so, it has to produce a salutary effect on efforts to put in action intelligence bodies
as opposed to the passions, and that energy of these has to subside as they serve the organs
of intelligence.

But it is noted that this phenomenon was verified by directing the
attention of intelligence in a direction opposite to the passions,
which is obtained by transferring it for a moment the order of ideas
which will, when not under an influx passionate, as if by intelligence
contrary it is to promote passion, then this will encourage more and
more with the help, and what we could lose power, so to speak, purely
organic, recovered in moral power, in the greatest abundance of resources
to achieve the object, and that kind of bill of indemnity that is
believed free of charges, when you see that understanding supports
far from combat.

This work on the passions is not just a theory, anyone can convince themselves that it is practicable,
and they feel its good effects as soon as applied to it. It is true that not always is right
in the middle but on purpose to drown tuning or to direct the passion lifted; or still found, you are
not used properly, but the habit of looking only sufficient for man to be more about themselves,
do not leave too facility to the first movement, and has in its practical
judgments criteria missing those who come otherwise.

§ XLIX.

The man laughing at himself.

When man used to seeing much their passions, to get inside to use ridicule against themselves,
the ridicule, the salt that is in the heart and lip mortals as one of many preservatives against
intellectual and moral corruption, ridicule, not only with fruit is used against others, but also
against us them, seeing our shortcomings on the side that lend themselves to satire. The man
says then to himself what others may say, attend the scene that would represent, If the launch
fell into the hands of an adversary of wit and good humor. That is used against another also somewhat
satire, when we use against ourselves, because although is observed within us two men vying
for that fight, they are never in peace, and just as intelligent, moral, foresighted, used
against the clumsy, the immoral the blind, strength of will and the rule of reason, and also
sometimes fights it and humiliates him with the sharp arrows of satire. Satire can be both
funnier and free, the lack of witnesses, does not hurt the reputation,
there is nothing to lose in the opinion of others, because it fails
to be expressed in words, and the grin that makes come to our lips
is extinguished at the time of birth.

A thought of this kind happening in the agitation caused by the passions, produces a effect similar
to a word judicious, incisive and penetrating, launched amid turbulent meeting. How often is
noted that a look expressive change the state of mind one of the bystanders, moderate or drowning
a frenzied passion! What has expressed that look? nothing more than a memory of decorum, a
consideration to the place or people, a friendly reproach, a delicate irony, nothing more than an appeal
to common sense the same as a sport of passion, and this has been sufficient for the passion
subsides.

The effect of another gives us producírnoslo why we could not ourselves,
if not equality, at least approximation?

L. §

Perpetual childhood of man.

Little enough to lose the man, but not take much to correct some defects. Is weaker than bad,
far from satanic stubbornness that does not deviate evil never once embraced, on the contrary,
both good and evil and embraces leaves with ease. Is a child into old age, introduce themselves
with all the seriousness possible, but in the end it is childish to himself in many things and
ashamed.

It said that no great big man seemed to his valet, that contains much truth. And it saw the man
closely, you discover the little things that debase. But more things he knows himself that his
valet, and this is still less large their own eyes, for this even in his prime, you need to cover with a veil
of childish that cherishes in his heart.

Children laugh and frolic and gambol, and then moan and rage and cry,
often without knowing why: do not do the same to her as an adult?

To give children a boost of its organization the good or bad state
of health, the provision affects atmospheric pleasant or unpleasant;
disappearing in these cases changes the state of their minds: do not
remember the time before, or think in the next, only governed by the
posters that are currently experiencing.

Does not that same man a thousand times more serious, more serious
and judicious?

§ LI.

Moving D. Nicasio in a few hours.

Don Nicasio is a man of
advanced age, calm and mature trial, full of knowledge, experience,
and rarely carried away from the shock of the moment. But the cat was too quick for him; he dodged the blows, then knocked
the stick out of his hand, and finally Martin, to escape from him, crept into a crevice in
a rock where the cat could not reach him, and refused to come out even when the Lady of the
Hills came to look for him and begged him to come to her. When at last, compelled by hunger,
he returned to her, he was silent and sullen and would not be caressed.

He saw no more of the cat, and when next day he asked her where it was, she said that it had
gone from them and would return no more--that she had sent it away because it had vexed him.
This made Martin sulk, and he would have gone away and hidden himself from her had she not
caught him up in her arms. He struggled to free himself, but could not, and she then carried
him away a long distance down the mountain-side until they came to a small dell, green with
creepers and bushes, with a deep carpet of dry moss on the ground, and here she sat down and
began to talk to him.

"The cat was a very beautiful beast with his spotted hide," she said; "and you liked to play
with him sometimes, but in a little while you will be glad that he has gone from you."

He asked her why.

"Because though he was fond of you and liked to follow you about and play with you, he is very
fierce and powerful, and all the other beasts are afraid of him. So long as he was with us
they would not come, but now he has gone they will come to you and let you go to them."

"Where are they?" said Martin, his curiosity greatly excited.

"Let us wait here," she said, "and perhaps we shall see one by-and-by."

So they waited and were silent, and as nothing came and nothing happened, Martin sitting on
the mossy ground began to feel a strange drowsiness stealing over him. He rubbed his eyes and
looked round; he wanted to keep very wide awake and alert, so as not to miss the sight of anything
that might come. He was vexed with himself for feeling drowsy, and wondered why it was; then
listening to the low continuous hum of the bees, he concluded that it was that low, soft, humming
sound that made him sleepy. He began to look at the bees, and saw that they were unlike other
wild bees he knew, that they were like humble-bees in shape but much smaller, and were all
of a golden brown colour: they were in scores and hundreds coming and going, and had their
home or nest in the rock a few feet above his head. He got up, and climbing from his mother's
knee to her shoulder, and standing on it, he looked into the crevice into which the bees were
streaming, and saw their nest full of clusters of small round objects that looked like white
berries.

Then he came down and told her what he had seen, and wanted to know all about it, and when
she answered that the little round fruit-like objects he had seen were cells full of purple
honey that tasted sweet and salt, he wanted her to get him some.

"Not now--not to-day," she replied, "for now you love me and are contented to be with me, and
you are my own darling child. When you are naughty, and try to grieve me all you can, and would
like to go away and never see me more, you shall taste the purple honey." Desire
was to suddenly reached the girl and slipped the turkey, that is, to say no ceremony, her daring
thoughts but Mutileder was beside her, looking suspicious everywhere, with the beard on the
shoulder, distrustful and hostile attitude, and brandishing a huge and fierce club.

Prudence restrained the impulses of the Phoenician navy. It was enough to see a glancing blow
to Mutileder bear was able to wear yourself out to any of a club, if he were to break down a bit with
the beautiful and candid Echeloría.

Adherbal, as said, was wise, but he was also stubborn, enterprising and cunning. Echeloría it
was not a fleeting impression and light, but deep and durable.

So he found out who he was and where he lived, and got it with discretion and modesty.

Two or three times was then surreptitiously Churriana horse, and returned to see the child,
being captive to its unique charm.

Finally, through the clever people of the country, it was reported
Echeloría life, he knew I was going to marry Mutileder, and no detail
was that you fail to take full news.

These elements formed Adherbal a diabolical plan, which went right, as unfortunately go wrong almost
every diabolical plans.

One early morning the ship weighed anchor and set sail from the port of Malaga, after saying goodbye kick
him. Out port and the ship, he was very near the coast to the west, tacking to win best wind.
So a few hours elapsed until he reached one in which the gentle Echeloría down to bathe in the sea.
Adherbal then jumped in a very light boat with eight rowers vibrant and two other men of the crew,
great swimmers and divers, and the most agile and devoted to him. With the boat approached cautiously,
hiding in the recesses of the coast and away from the rocks and hillocks, until came close to
where Echeloría bathing, believing the most secure and complete neglect. The swimmers then thrown
into the water, dove, which suddenly emerged Echeloría was bathing, seized her despite her cries,
which soon ended in fainting caused by Swat, and in that provision,
beautiful and interesting as a nymph, is the led to the boat where
the Adherbal in his arms, and then drove on board his ship.

It deployed to the point all sail, and taking advantage of a fresh wind Poniente that had just
risen, not running, but flying over the blue waves of the Mediterranean.

Several girls, who bathed with Echeloría, fled in terror from that zalagarda, and jumping on
the ground, alarmed by her moans and sobs to the nurse, who was ecstatic and nothing was noticed. In
contrast, just found out what happened, to extreme samples of their pain. There was the venerable
gray pull each other's hair, the rolling on the floor, and so formidable
to shrieks, which Mutileder, though far, went to the site, listening
to them. The unhappy lover knew then all the enormity of their misfortune,
but too late Unfortunately. Breaking one of the cells he saw that it was full of thick honey, of a violet colour,
and tasting it he found it was like very sweet honey in which a little salt had been mixed.
He liked it and he didn't like it; still, it was not the same in all the cells; in some it
was scarcely salt at all; and he began to suck the honey of cell after cell, trying to find
one that was not salt; and by and by he dropped the cluster of cells from his hand, and stooping
to pick it up forgot to do so, and laying his head down and stretching himself out on the mossy
ground looked up into his mother's face with drowsy, happy eyes. How sweet it seemed, lying
there in the sun, with the sun shining right into his eyes, and filling his whole being with
its delicious heat! He wished for nothing now--not even for the sight of new wonderful things;
he forgot the blue water, the strange, beautiful wild animals, and his only thought, if he
had a thought, was that it was very nice to lie there, not sleeping, but feeling the sun in
him, and seeing it above him; and seeing all things--the blue sky, the grey rocks and green
bushes and moss, and the woman in her green dress and her loose black hair--and hearing, too,
the soft, low, continuous murmur of the yellow bees.

For hours he lay there in that drowsy condition, his mother keeping watch over him, and when
it passed off, and he got up again, his temper appeared changed: he was more gentle and affectionate
with his mother, and obeyed her every wish. And when in his rambles on the hill he found a
snake lying in the sun he would steal softly near it and watch it steadily for a long time,
half wishing to taste that strange purple honey again, so that he might lie again in the sun,
feeling what the snake feels. But there were more wonderful things yet for Martin to see and
know in the hills, so that in a little while he ceased to have that desire.

CHAPTER XV

MARTIN'S EYES ARE OPENED

One morning when they went up into a wild rocky place very high up on the hillside a number
of big birds were seen coming over the mountain at a great height in the air, travelling in
a northerly direction. They were big hawks almost as big as eagles, with very broad rounded
wings, and instead of travelling straight like other birds they moved in wide circles, so that
they progressed very slowly.

They sat down on a stone to watch the birds, and whenever one flying lower than the others
came pretty near them Martin gazed delightedly at it, and wished it would come still nearer
so that he might see it better. Then the woman stood up on the stone, and, gazing skywards
and throwing up her arms, she uttered a long call, and the birds began to come lower and lower
down, still sweeping round in wide circles, and by and by one came quite down and pitched on
a stone a few yards from them. Then another came and lighted on another stone, then another,
and others followed, until they were all round him in scores, sitting on the rocks, great brown
birds with black bars on their wings and tails, and buff-coloured breasts with rust-red spots
and stripes. It was a wonderful sight, those eagle-like hawks, with their blue hooked beaks
and deep-set dark piercing eyes, sitting in numbers on the rocks, and others and still others
dropping down from the sky to increase the gathering.

Then the woman sat down by Martin's side, and after a while one of the hawks spread his great
wings and rose up into the air to resume his flight. After an interval of a minute or so another
rose, then another, but it was an hour before they were all gone.

"O the dear birds--they are all gone!" cried Martin. "Mother, where are they going?"

She told him of a far-away land in the south, from which, when autumn comes, the birds migrate
north to a warmer country hundreds of leagues away, and that birds of all kinds were now travelling
north, and would be travelling through the sky above them for many days to come.

Martin looked up at the sky, and said he could see no birds now that the buzzards were all gone.

"I can see them," she returned, looking up and glancing about the sky.

"O mother, I wish I could see them!" he cried. "Why can't I see them when you can?"

"Because your eyes are not like mine. Look, can you see this?" and she held up a small stone
phial which she took from her bosom.

He took it in his hand and unstopped and smelt at it. "Is it honey? Can I taste it?" he asked.

She laughed. "It is better than honey, but you can't eat it!" she said. "Do you remember how
the honey made you feel like a snake? This would make you see what I see if I put some of it
on your eyes." He begged her to do so, and she consenting poured a little into the palm of
her hand. It was thick and white as milk; then taking some on her finger tip, she made him
hold his eyes wide open while she rubbed it on the eye-balls. It made his eyes smart, and everything
at first looked like a blue mist when he tried to see; then slowly the mist faded away and
the air had a new marvellous clearness, and when he looked away over the plain beneath them
he shouted for joy, so far could he see and so distinct did distant objects appear. At one
point where nothing but the grey haze that obscured the distance had been visible, a herd of
wild cattle now appeared, scattered about, some grazing, others lying down ruminating, and
in the midst of the herd a very noble-looking, tawny-coloured bull was standing.

"O mother, do you see that bull?" cried Martin in delight.

"Yes, I see him," she returned. "Sometimes he brings his herd to feed on the hillside, and
when I see him here another time I shall take you to him, and put you on his back. In two minutes it was clear and the isthmus
open a path in there campizo which covered the stumps of the cliff, until the pile of snow which
lay Chisco. Then the intrepid boy was pulled to the base of slope, and there, as if he were
in the garden of his home, without worry the least about the horrific vision of the abyss that
opened at half staff in each of his feet, he began to EXPAL snow slope, side to side, sending
at the same time it did above the same, as the blades reach. Without base and the snow slope
and removed overhead, began to slip into the isthmus, which was split into two waterfalls
disappearing in the ravine. Clear and clean the slope in a few moments and unfettered, therefore,
of the dangers they feared before, he fell down the rope called Chorcos, tied as it should and he
knew it, his friend under the arms, and gingerly pulling up and helping the He fondly from below,
was Chisco, who could not do anything for themselves, leaning to the slope.

- Up to him now! - Salces Pete shouted, as pulsu, because if no one brazu cascau yeva has of
faltali POCU.

Chisco arrived happily at the top, down the rope again, Atos her Chorcos, subiéronle; and no one
stopped to ponder the feat, and it occurred to him that he had done worthy of the name, ran
to surround all Chisco, who had already taken over the doctor in the oak groves, attended mainly
by Don Sabas. The head wound was negligible, and the arm was not even a dislocated shoulder.
The worst was the blood loss weakened him very much, and what might be of concussion, although
how compliant was a good sign that the whole body was showing the remedies that you Neluco applied.
Three quarters of an hour the patient was sitting by his own efforts and their free will,
another quarter of an hour later, asking detailed news of all that had past the hour and a half,
he ate with great appetite and was drinking when he gave, and unfulfilled two hours, rehearsing
their vigor of kicking in the snow walking and praying to Cure Neluco because it broke the
place quickly.

Walking now, said Don Sabas your doctor:

- And they say that miracles are no longer! Be in the canyon wall smooth one rock ledge, go
for the death penalty Chisco dragged by cellerisca; have a bed rock more than six feet of snow,
and engage him in blankets cellerisca over another Thus, for the
fall out soft. Are not these miracles?

And finally, is not the greatest of all the occurrence of Pete? For what would have served the other
without such barbarism?

As it was necessary to accommodate Chisco walk, his gait was not ordinary,
down to Tablanca lasted much more than estimated at the output of
"Cuevona" of "Pedregalón of Escajeras'; and how, even so, the monsoon
of Robacio was not iron, became tired and not feeling much well as
the night wore on grew colder and colder.

There were fears that Tablanca unable to reach their feet, and looked for shortcuts to soon.
How come, at last, Neluco and patients, we have already seen us. It Chisco heated bed, he
stripped off his wet clothes, he was given a friction brandy, and was lying in bed when referring
Neluco in the kitchen these events more than once clouded the eyes of Facia, and made us tremble
with fear and excitement Tona her daughter, while my uncle was shaking her chin and stuck
little eyes sparkled in the narrator. As for me, to admire as much as I admired the heroic
atrocity Pito Salces, and feel so deeply as I felt the terrible misfortune of the poor Chisco, I was
still all in comparison little box of horrors that I had been building
in the head during the day and much of the night.

Finished the story, with detailed comments from listeners, and refreshed and with Neluco lumbrona
heat, god around Chisco's bedroom, saw and saw all sleeping profoundly a quiet sleep without
any sign of fever, caused us instructions what could happen until he returned the next morning, called
the bluff and Facia had prepared him, took leave and went to his house where his housekeeper would
be crying by entrusting to him and to God. I then explained to my uncle, the reason for these
events, my conduct throughout the day appeared calm with it, leaning against us shortly after
the lazy, I had dinner with an appetite as I had not felt one in
my life, and one hour after we retired to sleep.

A sleep! ... Good went to do the hours of that day and night memorable!

Tell me I got into bed with his head crammed with special events and heart full of impressions,
saw the storm raging in the mountains, rocks ripping uprooting trees and secular, and a dozen
men, simply and naturally generous shrouded swirling snow and hail, rolling on the floor, such as
leaf litter dead trees; saw Chisco dying in the back of a rock, on a black background an awful
abyss, saw the desperate yearning of his fellow-sufferers, who were not how to get there, and
saw, finally, to Noblot Pito Salces flying through the air and risking their lives at the start
brutally sublime, just trying to save Your friend, which surely would have done the same for
him a lot, I considered all As representative and valuable in the light of common sense these
things, and simple attack the trip to the mountain on a day like this, in the pure and holy spirit
of charity, as The most natural and simple, without any protest, without the slightest doubt
and no idea even from the remotest hope of profit or applause, and could not help it, I remembered
I had read and heard many times in my world, the resounding din that used to move in chat rooms,
casinos and papers, and honors and ribbons that were requested and granted for award a "deed"
not worth two cumin good sale, I also thought of my poor uncle whom the questions first and then
the knowledge of reality with all its details, were affected very deeply, and that I had left
the bedroom door much more depressed and haggard than usual, more tiring and more haunted by
coughing, in Finally, I even thought so in good justice, would have won in estimating Chisco Tanasi,
who was not worthy of a big animal like pepazo, and Pito Salces in Tona, there would be no
thrown by the wayside the atrocities of Heroic mozallón how truly loved her.

Until well after midnight did not start the sleep feints to confuse and stack these thoughts
and those images in his head, and that was precisely when I heard few knocks on the floor
of the apartment of my uncle. He used to call it with a stick that put leaning against the headboard.
But the shock of that night was something distinguished them from the blows of other times,
heard by me without warning. Could this be true, or product of a hallucination of mine, but
I, in doubt, I stuck to it first and I got a leap, lit the candle, got dressed in the air and
went to the call. And what I was I feared. I found the poor guy sitting up in bed, iris color,
looking for distress, mouth open, panting and breathing hard, and a rattle in the chest that
looked like death. Recited, syllable by syllable, the Miserere psalm ... and I did not know
what to do or what to say at first: I imposed that picture had never seen and felt at the
same time very compassionate. Armed with that sort attacks had several drugs at home and gave us
some instructions Neluco to combat trouble in the first moments when he warned him, but I
could not quite make or to have anything to anything. So I looked stunning!

It reached the two maids, who had also heard the shots, and, seeing his master from the door, I
said Facia ear:

- What mesmu that again!

Tona He turned flying into the kitchen to a term of his mother, and it stayed with me in the sick
room.

Ether, hand baths, poultices ... I do not know how many resources were put into play there! A
whole lend the distressed lord, unless it is notified Neluco or Don Sabas, because after of
the struggle they had had since the dawn, they needed rest as much as him. And beware that
the poor Chisco found out what was going on! because it was able to rise risk of getting worse,
and Chisco and the Cure and Neluco and I and Facia and every one
of the sleeping or resting at that hour or went healthy and good for
the house, made missing in the world, all but him, that seeing themselves
in this predicament was seen in his own interests and in what was
natural.

All of this was telling us little by little, as he fixed his eyes
on us crystallized and longing and cadaveric in sank his hands a bowl
of hot water, building relief that would produce this and other heroic
remedies we applied it constantly.

- In addition - we said - this
is not death yet, I know him well, and if I thought otherwise, and
the priest would be here for my order, for the account of me.

Gravel! ... But it is another reminder of her ... We, the second touch, the third, the mass
... and do not lie, the funeral mass, the body of your uncle, Marcelo, your master, Facia, which
is already in abundance in this home and abroad ... Blessed be God forever ever, amen!

Then he began to pray for the low, and as he calmed the anguish was closing eyes, until finally
falling asleep, and so asleep and waking up every moment Before long. Toward morning the attack
disappeared completely and the patient slept quietly and at a stretch, about two hours. But what
I had wanted for the Neluco night to warn, and what my own anxiety by dawn!

When morning came, at last, I was shivering with cold ... and sadness, seated at the head of
my uncle's bed, having seen from the sunshine of my room that did not appear the new day more
cheerful than the last, and sent a wire to Neluco to anticipate the visit as he could.

XXIII

As my uncle was found free of the attack on waking from sleep,
relatively quiet, I had watched since dawn, and saw the room lit by
daylight, although brown, melancholy, forgot the anguish she had suffered
fatal few hours earlier, and he had not told other desire than to
jump out of bed to make life normal.

God help us reduced cost to us even listen to the reasons we had for oppose the reckless and
dangerous endeavor. Neluco, which was already present and well aware for everything that happened
during the night, he had really upset and even lacking a bit different respect. If not for the
good, bad that day would have to stay in bed and the next, and the other, and lasted as long
as the snow storm. Be avoided colds at all costs ... Then they would see. To which Don Celso,
casting by the loops of fire fox and clenching his fists in anger:

- For you it was! For you and for all of your driven trade, the tricky mediquín gravel! Why
do you take me? What wood you've thought that I am? I will arise ... or not I arise, and as I
see as gall, but not because he pleases so or to asao no undertaker live ... because life is buried
in cuartajo! be in bed days and days to a man like me, without fever
or pain.

After he surrendered, rather than conviction, for lack of strength to get away with it; but
turned his face to the wall muttering protests and abuse as a child upset.

Released this and while we would see Chisco, I said that perhaps the doctor had why my uncle in
his contention with us. Nature was so extraordinary!

- There is nature worth - I replied Neluco - at a certain age in life
and certain diseases.

- But how serious is it to have my uncle? -
I asked.

- I've already responded to you on another occasion that
question.

- Yes.

- Well, you stick to it, and offer government for
better intelligence, which each hundred patients from this class,
although young men are dying ... One Hundred and One, So you just
imagine if there have to be careful, even to stop the death of Don
Celso few days.

What is needed here now to discipline him a little, is to organize the editing assistance at the
same time the life of this home.

You may not accommodate certain tasks, improper of their habits and
even their nature Facia is the stamp of melancholy, and her daughter,
Tona unable to meet with the most affectionate of the applications,
skill and polish it missing.

Moreover, neither the mother nor daughter can, by their servant,
imposed impetuous whims of his master, who, moreover, he knows them
by heart, as than you.

More than wines and drugs, must attend to this patient with entertainment
distracting him and glad and require you to be docile, even by courtesy.

Finally, I Mari Pepa thought. Mari Pepa is coming here as a nurse with all my heart, and coming
it will come Lita too, and under the pretext of accompanying Don Celso, pass to his side all day
and make this big house an aviary. You what do you think?

Pearl seemed to me, and so he declared to Neluco. He was to turn the plan into a thing made, and
arrive in the bedroom this Chisco.

Which was no longer in it or nearby. Tona asking him, we knew that he was, some time ago, fixing
the cattle. We went down to the stables and there we found him. Something arm still hurt "jancia
the hombral" but as was the left, handles well for their business. He had a good 'appetite' is' did
discover "the other rowing final, and That was up as usual. I knew what his master, and he had
"the diantris" to consider that while the poor guy went through hell, he was sleeping leg loose
all night, and because of "softness and arreparus" who had been "malamenti" a man with his
belt.

Pulsóle the doctor and he acknowledged the arm and head injury; gave him for safe and sound if required
to observe certain prescribed care, bye me until "later", and left.

Before leaving I said very softly:

- I think I did very poorly last night to refer certain things in front of your uncle, so I
was impressed that the poor guy.

I suspected the same, and returned to the patient's bedside and sat at the head of your bed. I
found him more "human" than before, no doubt because it was also more depressed. Tempt him not
desire speak, nor was desirable provocársele as very expensive custom of Neluco, tell me I think
by having nothing else to occupy them there. It was certain that I had come really want to my uncle:
the view was what hurt me the seriousness of his condition and the
danger he was in the hands quedársenos when least expected, and yet
the prospect of that number of bed days imposed by the doctor to the
patient, with Subject to that made me this extent, the scant and gloomy
precincts of that room, and tenacious, thick snow that had heaven
in darkness, the earth without soil to tread and imprisoned its inhabitants,
I worried and hurt me why deny it! more.

The heart frequently vitiated human of these ailments, not evil itself, but for lack education
of the feelings, disuse of the most delicate of them, remnants of
selfishness acquired the freedom of a life without barriers and boundaries.

I Explicábame that weakness, which seemed to grave sin, with these thoughts, and they consoled
me, although not as much as the hope that plans be made and come Neluco Lita and her mother, Lita
especially to relieve the weight of the cross, renewing the air and faces and sounds and light
up those areas sorrowful, silent, black and dreary. But lend themselves to come Mari Pepa
and her daughter, despite their good and charitable desires? Is not arredrarían barriers of
snow and cold, cold that he had not felt maybe I did in Russia, not to be in Tablanca other recourse
than to the kitchen and a bad brazier to fight him? I knew Mal breaths tablanquesas ladies!
By midmorning entered the door of the room of the house the daughter and granddaughter of Don
Pedro Nolasco, shortly after I heard if any "chirp" and fill the passage of Argentina and harmonious
voices. Also He had guessed my uncle.

- Jesus! ... The cellerisca! - He exclaimed, to hear, in a tone that showed more joy weigh.

I went to meet him and got a pinch without hiding the great joy that his visit gave me. The eyes
and nose were all that was seen of his people: all else was a conglomerate skirts, jackets,
shawls and woolen shawls thick and sweet. Asking and saying, pray quietly (when it was undesirable
that could hear my uncle), now almost shouting (to agree hear it), were loosened head and discovering
his face, until it appeared in Lita (I saw little in the other) as moon in January between gray
clouds, or more properly, as an August apple wrapped in the leaves of the branch: this was coloradito
of smooth and down the roundness of her flesh there.

As they came well-informed and educated by Neluco, little or no talk about the role they corresponded
in the comedy that we were going to represent in front of the patient. Don Pedro Nolasco was
unable to accompany them, or rather, had not allowed them, for fear
fall would have been fatal in hombrazo of his years ... because they
were the roads Virgin Mary, our Mother! they were scary.

It 'eslociaban "foot in the snow as eels in hand. Only on the rise it had fallen scree (Lituca)
twice, and the same knee that must have made a pity.

I had not seen it yet, but I could swear by what the "sting", but not preventing movement, thank
God. Moreover, they knew that the patient did not suit him talk, although the request: the Occasionally,
some chunga, as if evil was a joke, on time and with love, drugs and food, and to forgive them
if they openly for inviting us to eat, because they, under the pretext of the snow, had planned
to stay until night without Don Celso malice the truth of reason. They came equipped to do
more entertaining work hours remaining around the brazier.

My uncle were received with four jokes and some regrets.

Although still alive, was given be dead now. They protested against the course, assuring him
that he had "lodging" then it was the coldness of snow, and may also feel some of that would
give the knowledge of what happened on the mountain the day before.

- Do not deny it - it answered my uncle - and therefore no two ways about what you I said, for
what can be expected as a man of my vein when left mayor, as I am mayor, by tinkering like that?

It
was the truth, but, nevertheless, insisted the women bonísimas deny it, but not the impetus
needed to achieve its charitable purposes, they were extremely affectionate and were imposed and
shaken before that exhaustion and that cadaverous pallor the poor Don Celso, neither for the
sake of maintaining their rights ignored by professional tyranny of Neluco, remembered and rising.

They
left at last in the calm he needed instalámonos in the adjoining room, came gray woman with encogollado
brazier of glowing embers, put him in the box that was there, and we sat around it, without
losing sight of the sick, Mari Pepa, her daughter and me. Mari Pepa got a very large pocket of
her apron to the accoutrements of media; Lita (I did not know what
withdrawal of its complicated wrappers) to the nail, and both began
to work in their work and talk at the same time, but with eyes and
sign with the mouth, which had to do with the status of my uncle.

Of "what happened yesterday," there was much more, and with some care to not heard from the
bedroom as I could impress again. It was a miracle of God that we do not hear most of it, because
with the stubborn determination I had in that there should be something between Lita and physician
I was really heavy and insistent in certain passages of dialogue,
particularly during Mari Pepa getaway to the bedroom, because my uncle
had coughed or believed that he had called ... or to see if I needed
something, but coughed or call.

At Don Pedro Nolasco had known all, shortly before going on "the cloud" that had terrified.
They had lived in the same anguish I late into the night. I spoke of Lita had doubts Toper's home,
and here's where my tenacity bordering on impertinence.

I met him at a glance strangeness with my beautiful interlocutor who responded to me a hint
that were cleared too my intentions. I won the serenity that seemed protest against poor understood
right to ask "certain things" for very obvious they were.

Then came Don Sabas, complaining since the passage of the regard that
had been saved in our house that night.

 Martin was sorry to lose them, but the sight of the sea tumbling and foaming
on the rocks still held him there, until all the rocks but one had been covered by the waters,
and this one was a great black jagged rock close to the shore, not above twenty or thirty yards
from him. Against this mass of rock the waves continued to dash themselves with a mighty noise,
sending up a cloud of white foam and spray at every blow. The sight and sound fascinated him.
The sea appeared to be talking, whispering, and murmuring, and crying out aloud to him in such
a manner that he actually began trying to make out what it was saying. Then up would come a
great green wave rushing and moaning, to dash itself to pieces right before his face; and each
time it broke against the rock, and rose high up it took a fantastic shape that began to look
more and more the shape of a man. Yes, it was unmistakably like a monstrous grey old man, with
a vast snow-white beard, and a world of disordered white hair floating over and around its
head. At all events it was white for a moment, then it looked green--a great green beard which
the old man took with his two hands and twisted just as a washerwoman twists a blanket or counterpane,
so as to wring the water out of it.

Martin stared at this strange uncouth visitor from the sea; while he in turn, leaning over
the rock, stared back into Martin's face with his immense fishy eyes.

Every time a fresh wave broke over him, lifting up his hair and garments, which were of brown
seaweed and all rags and tatters, it seemed to annoy him somewhat; but he never stirred; and
when the wave retired he would wring the water out once more and blow a cloud of sea-spray
from his beard. At length, holding out his mighty arms towards Martin, he opened his great,
cod-fish mouth, and burst into a hoarse laugh, which sounded like the deep laughter-like cries
of the big, black-backed gulls. What would he said
and what of us? ... And while not squeezing the thing, how soon are good friends?

- Well, look - he said to bed hugging Don Celso - what is it you do not forgive.

- Bah, bah! - The aforementioned thrashing grumbled a bit - do not
break my head.

You can JACER what suits you, well I know what I did.

- Jinojo! - Said Don Sabas - is that the courtesy that was such that if not now topo mesmo with
Neluco, blessed day passes without me to know what happened to you last night.

I intervened, desenojé the Priest, he remained alone with my uncle and continue the others around
brazier, as before, talk talk, on "last night" over "what happened yesterday" and even on certain
promises made by me to my interlocutors that the day was known, eat at home any time; promise
was still unfulfilled, because it noticeable from the hectic life he led uphill and downhill,
if not the fierce temporary I had locked the house. At noon came Neluco, not found in the patient
nothing special or new, nor wanted to enter the plea I made to stay and eat us pray for his
part, I was rebuffed and the Cure. Then they went both together after prescribing first aid plan
for the evening, and to avert the second to that for any reason or human courtesy we fail to
notify the minor novelty Lita and her mother returned to the bedroom of the patient to weigh
the improvement noticed in he (and God knows how knowingly lied in their weights), and give
Mari Pepa few sips of milk while his daughter arranged the bedclothes
and women entering gray lounge set the table near the hearth, and
little time we sat down to eat.

Eating and talking, I had to say, because I asked my talkative diners, what things were eaten by
the wealthy, and at what times, in "into the world again." All were astonished those women very
simple, and I perceived this, and I liked to speed up the note, and so I to ponder the exquisite
taste of frog legs and swallow nests, including distinguished and elegant junk food that I quoted.
And it was to see the face then Mari Pepa put and gestures of disgust
Lituca was looking at his mother and back at me to me, as if he doubted
the truth of what I meant.

- Pure vice daughter, pure pleasure -
said after Mari-Pepa -; pure pleasure of it jartura those living Genton,
of what God created.

As it was so bonded with each other, pulling out the way of eating lifestyle and mode of travel.
New fans and new amazement. Thesis also extremely well here, and even suspect that I lied a little,
but within the plausible and pardonable. Lo bed near dawn and rise after midday to stay at
home until the evening, I marveled as much as swallow nest soup and fried legs frog.

- Mary my Mother! - Lita cried upon hearing it - because if these
people never see ever the sun, so what is he can see the happy and
fattening?

I think that's living against the law.

- Vice, daughter, vice - insisted Mari Pepa -; habit of not knowing
what jacerse in a life so spoiled.

Lita asked me if I also had 'over there' these bad habits, I replied
that yes, and I said, all comments, with a truly naive and infantile
simplicity:

- Well, be good rascal you ... Right, mom?

I celebrated the saying with a laugh no less naive, then giving thanks
for the compliment, about the same time responding to the question
Mari Pepa:

- Who knows, daughter of soul, who knows?

Jaz who eat "nial" swallow unruptured of "doubt", you can jacerse to live that way without offending
God or break your health.

With the exception of his mother Lita was very red, and he wanted me he could amend like his
impertinence, and I, without leaving conclusion, paved the way for
your wishes offering it to boot a statement, not devoid of sincerity,
of my great disappointments.

- It would happen about now - I objected
Mari Pepa - when one was married, to live as God intended.

What the heck want to know and possible when they are lonely monsoon family open house? ...
Well, look, Don Marcelo, said that for these houses, close-knit they are, whenever the devil
has a key.

- You can have it - I said I was very formal - but in mine never entered.

- Jorrios, trapacerón of satanincas!

Released after the laughter, and dropped it while Lita. I help them with another, by the grace I did
both, and then began the "mince" and shootings that could not miss there, among the three. Because
these riddles are innate in women of all castes and latitudes; and put them all in the same
situation, all except the differences of place and style come to dig in the grounds and with
its own aims. Always initiatives and force of daring, the cunning and tenacity, the mother,
the subject studied, the ill-concealed curiosity, eloquent silence, looking sideways, the punctured
subtle, daughter. So the two came to take for granted that I would have had no less than fifty brides
nor would drop the remaining three in Madrid crying my absences and maybe my ingratitude. But if the
background scene was not new to me, éranlo, to fascinate, those quaint nuances of language, this
dialectic haphazardly, without scaffolding or rhetorical devices conventional sanotas those
sprouting from mischief palabreo joyful, spontaneous fresh, airy and transcending to 'land'
as the roses in the garden between the virginal and splendid litter fence that protects them.
So I felt in my soul that had just this highly original "discreteo." And Mari Pepa finally go to
my uncle who was coughing and complained, Lituca while at the same time he heard the moans and
coughs, I ordered shut by putting Dedina cute one on the mouth and Facia came to pick up the crumbs
and tablecloths the table.

XXIV

Soon passed my uncle, and spent two hours with no other noteworthy event in the big house and
beyond that a wet gale gusts that "blackened" a bit of snow, thing we filled all of complacency,
women less gray, as the signal phenomenon desnieve upcoming. Near dusk, when Mari Pepa and her
daughter picked up the respective Work and shook the rags clinging to clothing, and admonished the
'clouds' and shawls, saying the way to my uncle many jokes and cheer, and dripping carcasses
Snow Roof "melted" by the rain that was thickening, the doctor came again. Examined the sick,
and nothing particularly alarming or found in it to make fear a night like the past, but did
not dare to prometérnosla calmer, because everything could be in a bad breed disease in a
painful and helpless as crushed as my uncle. This me said apart after me, before Facia and
Mari Pepa, the campaign plan to the next day, subject to return it at the last minute, so that
might occur. The Lita's mother insisted on staying to watch much, but I did not consent, because
neither the patient has consented or would have sat well be the mere suspicion of it, with suspicious
and apprehensive that put darkness as were invading the bedroom. It was agreed that Facia ensure
that no Chisco and lie down to sleep I like hares, and It marched with Lita and her mother Neluco,
waving them "tomorrow" and "to then ', they fell in the dark and cold those dilapidated areas of
the house he grew up silence and darkness, and spent a long time, while women decorate the candlestick
gray, though I saw nothing around me that the dying embers dying from the ashes brazier, or heard
other rumors that the laborious work of breathing of my uncle the bottom of the chamber, and
the rhythmic and monotonous flow of the water-logged channels goterial.

When there was light in the room, I approached the bedside and spoke to desentristecerle a bit and
encourage him. Lost work. I intend very grateful, but he just knew all how bad it was and how
impossible it was out of this quagmire without a miracle God. I supposed overwhelmed by the
weight of my subjection to her assistance, and was determined to reassure with the promise that it would
not be long my captivity, I apologized for the bad times I was in the meantime, and I conjured
up again when I got my freedom, not take forgotten what I had prayed so, because the less was
he in that town, if there were those who the house occupied the position was left empty with his
death. I seem heavy and the subject; but this is what we demonstrate the importance he gave ...
All this, said between moans and panting pauses, his voice dull and deathly exhausted the light
of the oil lamp placed on the bureau, which only served to extreme cadaverous pallor of the patient,
including odors ether and rosemary, while the channels were flowing and grumbling the gale
outside, was very sad indeed. On the play of chance are often produced very curious contrasts jokes
that seem very heavy destination. On the dresser and under the burner ignition the candlestick,
had a stack of letters and newspapers that I had put there the night before to be entertained
with reading my long hours of sailing after that, after the asthma attack could sleep my uncle.
For most of those letters and those papers paper, were packed with news, reviews and trials planned
dances, receptions sumptuous new comedies in the halls and theaters in Madrid, as if everything
had been written for me out about it in such a timely opportunity.

The relapse of my uncle, the drop in temperature, with subsequent
clearing of paths and roads, and salsilla of "what happened yesterday"
the cocinona took a big hit that night of commentators.

TARUMBA attended to, which rarely went there, far more restless and frustration with the illness
of Don Celso and the stupidity of pepazo, that having been widened more of the same, with the
weight and the distillation of snow, which had its anchovy jastial home in the West. Pete
also attended Salces, who remained as pulseless when Tona, face awash with smiles and eyes of sweetness,
he praised the achievement of Eve and told him without qualms that "from this one and those
ready liked it men. " Puches, how to put away the mozallón with praise! If you do not restrain
with a compelling reflection and toss brunt of his lastic, make another atrocity there less
laudable that the mountain. I had never thought of it (I swore so intertwined fingers their
hands, those who were crossing) a thing "as jacedera and currienti" could assert many flows.
With the tough one who until then had been Tona! Geez, what kind yours! Thinking that is the envy
Chisco I remembered the discovery made by me Toper house in the heart of Tanasi and Fuila with
the story of Robacio the monsoon in a besides I had with him. I replied that I had taken a job
well idle, although I thanked him very much.

- Things - ended in the judgmental tone that was peculiar to him - pa shoot well, they jancia
roll with himself unu.

The man was the calmness and equanimity in the flesh, and the same pulse Bear in front of him
in his cave, which the warmth of the bride.

On behalf of my uncle, I often walked in the kitchen rather than do the honors the gathering,
to prevent him pundits will invade the bedroom. He loved; but could not bear on the plight of
body and spirit in which was. Thus, even without the doctor's strict prohibition would not have
wanted to receive any of them during the day. When they were saying goodbye to everyone, would
be different.

Late Don Sabas and Neluco arrived: the first determined to stay there, without being notice the
sick, please you have asked me if he had not anticipated offer me; the second to find out the
state of affairs before retiring. As such Things did not offer new or alarming aspect, said
goodbye to my uncle, and those with him we stayed at the house, and went with the last commentators,
one of whom was Pete, encountered with people, benches, doors and partitions, pure and foolish
that aceleradote had given him the praise and cuddles of Tona.

He spent the night better than we all expected, and the next day dawned without a cloud in heaven
or a puff of air on earth, and when the sun peaks transposed the East and greeted the valley
with its rays sparkled on the snow that had not broken the rain, my poor uncle sent them to
open wide the paneled his bedroom, as was not allowed to do the same with the doors and windows
to let in light and the air in the abundance that he needed to stay afloat in this sea of ​​troubles
"that ajogaba him "because of the drawn mediquillo seemed determined to kill him. And indeed was
that if the body is not noticed anything more miracles of the panacea that so eagerly asked
the sick, was very large in spirit. It was "another man" from the sun had crept into his bedroom
and through the bars of a prison, and saw floating, dancing within the luminous band across the room
in front of his bed from the paneled window, the fluff and dust homeless. Not even the purpose of pointing
up, because they would not let the exhaustion of its forces, but believed in the possibility of
returning in the sun before they die, even sacándole in a basket to the laundry if it lasted
visage that while a few days.

And it lasted more than seven, and tuned in such terms and fixed the aging and confused my uncle's
machine so that, not in a basket, but rather sitting on the couch in cow your bedroom, well wrapped
and wrapped in blankets and coats, got be more than four "Bellyful of sun" outdoors in the warm
corner of the laundry, where I pulled him little unless in the air, the door of her bedroom,
between the storms of vows and oaths with protesting against "the
bitch acabación" that made him so miserable ends. Martin trembled as he gazed, not exactly with fear,
but with excitement, because he recognized in this huge water-monster under him that Old Man
of the Sea who had appeared and talked to him in his dream when he fell asleep among the rocks.
Could it be, although he was asleep at the time, that the Old Man really had appeared before
him, and that his eyes had been open just enough to see him?

By-and-by the cloud-like face disappeared, and did not return though he watched for it a long
time. Then sitting on the black, rotten wood and brown seaweed he gazed over the ocean, a vast
green, sunlit expanse with no shore and no living thing upon it. But after a while he began
to think that there was some living thing in it, which was always near him though he could
not see what it was. From time to time the surface of the sea was broken just as if some huge
fish had risen to the surface and then sunk again without showing itself. It was something
very big, judging from the commotion it made in the water; and at last he did see it or a part
of it--a vast brown object which looked like a gigantic man's shoulder, but it might have been
the back of a whale. It was no sooner seen than gone, but in a very short time after its appearance
cries as of birds were heard at a great distance. The cries came from various directions, growing
louder and louder, and before long Martin saw many birds flying towards him.

On arrival they began to soar and circle round above him, all screaming excitedly. They were
white birds with long wings and long sharp beaks, and were very much like gulls, except that
they had an easier and swifter flight.

Martin rejoiced at seeing them, for he had been in the greatest terror at the strangeness and
loneliness of the sea now that there was no land in sight. Sitting on the black raft he was
constantly thinking of the warning words his mother of the hills had spoken --that the sea
would kiss him with cold salt lips and take him down into the depths where he would never see
the light again. O how strange the sea was to him now, how lonely, how terrible! But birds
that with their wings could range over the whole world were of the land, and now seemed to
bring the land near him with their white forms and wild cries. How could they help him? He
did not know, he did not ask; but he was not alone now that they had come to him, and his terror
was less.

And still more birds kept coming; and as the morning wore on the crowd of birds increased until
they were in hundreds, then in thousands, perpetually wheeling and swooping and rising and
hovering over him in a great white cloud. According to the
holy Doctor, the passage is a sign of limited scope of understanding, is an option we granted
to supply to our weakness, and so is that the angels understand, but not run. The higher intelligence,
less ideas you, because it contains in short, what the more limited are distributed in thousands.
Thus the highest-ranking angels understand through a few ideas, the number is reduced to as maids
intelligences they approach the Creator, who as being infinite and infinite intelligence, all-seeing
in a single idea, unique, most simple, but infinite: its very essence. How sublime theory!
She alone is worth a book, it proves a deep knowledge of the secrets of the spirit; it suggests
many applications regarding the understanding of man.

Indeed, higher geniuses are not known for the great abundance of ideas, but that are held by
some, capital, widths, where they fit into the world. The fatigue creeping bird is hovering,
and covers much ground, not out of the narrow and winding of the valleys, the majestic eagle flight back,
alights on the summit of the Alps, and from there includes mountains, valleys, the flow of rivers,
vast plains populated currency cities, and enlivened with delightful meadows, pastures Galanas rich
and varied harvests.

In all matters there is a main point of view, dominant in the genius
he is placed. Martin!" the birds seemed to be screaming. "Look up, Martin, look up,
look up!" The whole air above and about him seemed to be full of the cries, and every cry said
to him, "Martin! Martin! lookup! lookup!"

Although dazed with the awful din and almost fainting with terror and weakness, he could not
resist the command. Pressing his hands on the raft he at last struggled up to his knees, and
saw that the feared bird-like monster had passed him by: he saw that it was a ship with a black
hull, its white sails spread, and that the motion of the water and the wave that swept over
him had been created by the ship as it came close to the raft. "Before
die to be of another, "he said. And this promise was made repeatedly and solemnized and corroborated
with the most terrible oaths.

After this, what remedy was married but as soon as the first boyfriend? This was resolved the
father, and began to make preparations for the wedding, which was
verified in autumn.

It was already late spring, and in those ancient ages likewise happening now which in the spring following
the summer.

Aratispi was the most beautiful place this is Alora. Around there, as there are still fertile, gardens
and lush evergreen forests of orange and lemon, but the hills that
limited amenísimo the valley, rather than being peeled, as now, were
covered with oaks, cork, carob, chestnut and other trees, whose trunks
and whose shade grew heather, ferns, thyme, marjoram, Mastranzo and
other fragrant plants and herbs.

Such was then the generosity of that land, which dwarf palms, now usually covered and more than
just serve to make brooms and esportilla, rose to great heights,
while the steep ridges of the mountains, bald now, were covered with
tiara green firs, pines and cypresses.

Nevertheless, it must be confessed that in summer it got so hot in all Aratispi demons.

Echeloría wanted, rightly, take some sea bathing, and her father was
a busy port nice, near Malaga, D. Juan Fresco and I estimate that
it must have been Churriana.

Naturally Churriana Mutileder was also accompanying her future.

The
cousins ​​were like two lovebirds, always cooing. So if you point the slightest desire
to confess, he was not bound by any regard, and if not points ... you seek apuntársele. Do not
I own anything new, because everything would be useless, even mortification a blister beetle.
 I am printing it on the following pages.

   ALFRED A. KNOPF.

  Dear Mr. Knopf:

    Your request for a Foreword to insert in the American
    reprint of the little book worries me. 

The existence or nonexistence of a being, or rather that something is or is not, can we be sure in two
ways: by ourselves, or through others.

Knowledge of the existence of things that is acquired by ourselves, without interference others,
comes from the senses mediate or immediate, or they present us with the object or impressions
that they cause us to spend the understanding infer the existence what is not sensible or not.
The view immediately informed me of the existence of a building that I have this, but a piece
of SECUNDAIRE, some remains of a pavement an inscription or other evidence, I do know that
in such or such a place existed a temple Roman. In both cases I have the news to the senses,
but in the first instant, the second immediately.

Who lacked the senses would not know the existence of spiritual beings;
dormant for understanding could not get this news, nor reason, nor
faith, unless it be that God favored by extraordinary means, that
now it is not.

The distinction explained in any way prejudge up systems that can be taken on origin of ideas,
now they are supposed to be acquired, sometimes innate, sometimes come from the senses, are
now only excited by them, the truth is that we know nothing, think nothing, if senses have not
been in action. Moreover, until they leave to the ideologues of power imagine what it will seem
good on the intellectual functioning of a man who lacked of all the senses, we can safely give
them so great latitude clarify course nobody never what it really would have, since the patient
would not be able to communicate what happens, either by words or
by signs.

Finally here they are men endowed with senses, and experience shows
that these men know, or what they feel, or by what they feel.

§ II.

Correcting errors on occasion of the senses. Your choice. Examples.

The immediate knowledge that the senses give us of the existence of
a thing, is sometimes wrong, because we serve as we have these wonderful
instruments that we have been granted the Author of nature.

Corporeal objects acting on the sense organ, causing an impression on our soul's make sure what
good this impression, we know how point corresponds to the existence of an object Here are
the rules to avoid errors in these subjects. Some explanations teach more than the precepts and
theories.

Long distance to see a moving object, and say, "there's a man 'closer, I find that it is not,
and there is only a bush swayed by the wind. Have I been deceived sense of sight? No: because
the impression that she has sent me a package was only moved, and
if I had the feeling he served well received, would have noticed that
I painted a man.

When I wanted him as such, should not blame the meaning, but to my little attention, or noticing
some resemblance to that between the package and a man seen from
afar, I inferred that this ought to be in effect, not realizing that
the likeness and reality are very different things.

Having some background
that will be a battle, or are harassing some square, methinks I heard
gunshots, and I stand by the belief that the fire started.

    That's the story of my story, and to the question in
    your publisher's practical mind, I'm sorry to have to
    say I don't know. I have no way of finding out, since
    children are not accustomed to write to authors to tell
    them what they think of their books. And after all
    these excuses it just occurs to me that children do not
    read forewords and introductions; they have to be addressed
    to adults who do not read children's books, so
    that in any case it would be thrown away. 

There are cases in which the narrator that seems interested in not telling the truth, it is unlikely
you have done, because soon discovered the lie, without recourse to alleviate it, would become against
him in a disgraceful manner.