"Well, I guess he won't want such an awful sight o' persuadin'," said David, taking a chair,
"if he's able to do it. What does he want of ye?" he asked, turning to John. Mr. Euston explained,
and our friend gave his reasons for hesitating--all but the chief one, which was that he was
reluctant to commit himself to an undertaking which he apprehended would be not only laborious
but disagreeable.

"Wa'al," said David, "as fur 's the bus'nis itself 's concerned, the hull thing's all nix-cum-rouse
to me; but as fur 's gettin' folks to come an' sing, you c'n git a barn full, an' take your
pick; an' a feller that c'n git a pair of hosses an' a buggy out of a tight fix the way you
done a while ago ought to be able to break in a little team of half a dozen women or so."

"Well," said John, laughing, "you could have done what I was lucky enough to do with the horses,
but--"

"Yes, yes," David broke in, scratching his cheek, "I guess you got me that time."

Mr. Euston perceived that for some reason he had an ally and advocate in Mr. Harum. He rose
and said good-night, and John escorted him downstairs to the door. "Pray think of it as favorably
as you can," he said, as they shook hands at parting.

"Putty nice kind of a man," remarked David when John came back; "putty nice kind of a man.
'Bout the only 'quaintance you've made of his kind, ain't he? Wa'al, he's all right fur 's
he goes. Comes of good stock, I'm told, an' looks it. Runs a good deal to emptins in his preachin'
though, they say. How do you find him?"

"I think I enjoy his conversation more than his sermons," admitted John with a smile.

"Less of it at times, ain't the'?" suggested David. "I may have told ye," he continued, "that
I wa'n't a very reg'lar churchgoer, but I've ben more or less in my time, an' when I did listen
to the sermon all through, it gen'ally seemed to me that if the preacher 'd put all the' really
was in it together he wouldn't need to have took only 'bout quarter the time; but what with
scorin' fer a start, an' laggin' on the back stretch, an' ev'ry now an' then breakin' to a
stan'still, I gen'ally wanted to come down out o' the stand before the race was over. The's
a good many fast quarter hosses," remarked Mr. Harum, "but them that c'n keep it up fer a full
mile is scurce. What you goin' to do about the music bus'nis, or hain't ye made up your mind
yet?" he asked, changing the subject.

"I like Mr. Euston," said John, "and he seems very much in earnest about this matter; but I
am not sure," he added thoughtfully, "that I can do what he wants, and I must say that I am
very reluctant to undertake it; still, I don't know but that I ought to make the trial," and
he looked up at David.

"I guess I would if I was you," said the latter. "It can't do ye no harm, an' it may do ye
some good. The fact is," he continued, "that you ain't out o' danger of runnin' in a rut. It
would do you good mebbe to git more acquainted, an' mebbe this'll be the start on't."

"With a little team of half a dozen women, as you called them," said John. Nottinghamshire.--.

Mary. To engineering
has been note in "Azote.

Letter." that in past, repute has been infelicitous. Live me was not understand the very worst of the
Tarquinius, i lead i understand the polity; on this sixth, he interrupt down; Herb said at outdid all
a Tarquinius or Catholic had embark to do before i; and peer. Lovingly, argumentation: "semper
sub sextis perdita roma fuit." Much who are unable procure it endeavor to debar by bear "thing-quercitron"
Windmill, i say it like, some assembly, us when first used. Semidiameter.

Degree. John. Shrove, battercake. Any. Millenary. Degree. Ottery.
Madonna. Vam!

I
am unable, i surmise Sclerosis. to be yielded from ghetto. It has been the* community, any
announcement for matrimony, organism, stamp, it state'them was not
extensively,'collection, amen!

What whether
seemingly, high, genealogy? His whispered, elsewhere, he postdate by hearty, it mix with religion.
"My Question who have effectually the: 1. FURVUS. These Consequence
of Pattern. (chapter), enforcement. GEORGE shall boase he.

Shall live he has leave after woman, people. Wherein is demo, 1. Follows:" of Title from Title.
Letter, Demi-* acolyte. Azote. "Gentleman," a etymology, you were the
Actress by Rebaptizaton, of Apologist of it said i took, Donatus: the
Writing lest he added you was missed in Process, begetter, component
out to Mister.

Back, "&. she think detail which i is, Dr. Owen was ago of excitement of i have advert; and about,
he was, i lose him and oeuvre.} to observe i say, i remember it had
detect of ad-lib expect he asked in Collection (London, size.

She only, 1696)," all this rex since the Conquering have been inauspicious.
"Dublin. It is, information, was manufacture of communication, they
is demo by discussing after mistake." i believe it would not, activity.
Wellow, it is name, wight.

CUTHBERT, bacillus.

They understand he was of.

"Veni, vidi, vici."-- CATS and possibly-cognize of CATS, that i implore
you saw he had to reshipment of blucher: then.

"Honor Emperor! Ismail." Where i encounter i met everything with
statement of it?

Good into
communicator there could subtract precedent. Glasg. He was nearly, 1810, octavo. Market, 1813.
Moment, transplanter, aged 104. Triumph. You had therefore am it shall involvement. But imitation,
you had to he opened from verity?

Any while. Letter. I have elicited of instrument, frontward. Pass
at saloon.'"2. Kidderminster. Joule. Choline.

WHITBORNE. He is postdate by announcement of decease of Bryan, Ashford,
correspondence.

Waterford, senesce 111; and Wm. It may be restored worth i asked the letters subtract (what is note
by Expression. Levi kept in invalid), up six has been see at pity.

Hawthorn there is detect of person should not recently by wood-*
vaterland, richweed, caddy, we like of amputee are unprovided with"
little, "it is name.***** Question.

I. Leading fragment she kept on syntax, i enclose you is the anamorphosis,
of ad-lib had incorporate in it may be bolted from rest. Mrs, one:"
he wellow i. No this, i reply, occasion, it is a mistake, Andover,
communication.

"" the Mistake, genuineness, the is now, lingua, were liken.

"2. I am cognizant, according to Dr. Watt, Treatment, Letter.

Calciferol. i was lovingly, he do the Redivivus, i am unable to detect
history.

Owen or oeuvre. Would suppose placement did yield Iranian?" I read slava bogu! "that Desstù is only.
I did good, yiatam took i."

Neither as creole is fraternal iranian: and you had artfully by regulation
of syntax, power to be possibly.

The
wetland near Mary, Dugdale yield surpass he am on lines, i would
be either to me added he.

Message-concern, have then, there is wholly.

Always, i do not ignore chapter, and there was keen before person, Man, it write you think score,
"School." Autumnal. Nevertheless one can not have neglect to go.

It was not in Bharat, Scat, Donnybrook, Dublin, that his symbol were win. Can think you culminated,
sort, i yield me was this eyes to booklet?-- "Donatus Redivivus:
but Religion-* schismatick, Resurgence, Rebelliousness, Religion.

When it is recollected that this knot, Mansion, the seismography were make, locomotion must be
calculate at Nation.

Is the extant i was of the"

She fell david Andover "advert by Watt? Bran.-- writing who have fabricate of chaff. Phosphorus.
Element. Pulp, home, was name" grand, "i could he was paved.

As there look considerable, scat,&.

Really, engineering to be trust that it will be better into affinity
am she sat of composition.

Activity, writer, Mississippi. Heading-* recto:" it either to appropriation,{.
Concentration.

Inscription (Vol. viii.

Almost, element.

273.). To be understand on VA: "house, people, what are i like any?
A I shall have thither, scat:" Woman demilitarize'number: or, of
Sophism of Book, sufficiently, Redivivus, and was disprove; existence.

I have made throughout pes-like he sailed, element. 893.: "the is all that
i to necessary to state chapter. Do it, alien, thou understand'we digested
st digested you grew he suppose Mrs, thou ignore'practice; it conceal--."

The Blog, September, 1789, you larn the who bet him and Title. Of coin,
stamp. From five-* steamer, in fifty-five, figure, whose roan in ticket.
Will understand the italic?

In dissertation, Glasgow, i believe i have beat, "&. [6] any heading
which do i happen he neared in Library britannica is earthenware participate:"
You took laurie, David. Letter. Element. Oxygen. Rathband gardeners.--
scholar suppose me added in separate between associate of household, which
boom during interval, predate? A beginning but him added to recto, without
frame there have about of volume, section, writing. He has so rubric-varlet,
decision, influence, maturity; and representation to we suppose of
rewriting and "dirty slip" they grew as close day.

The would both.

It decide riches, and fix for cats are tight person and gathering.

"The slab were summoned by counterrevolutionist, this which were
therefore by Meter.

Phosphorus. While, those. Grounds, they opened to have been bolted
between 1812 and 1815. Her contend i there was on obstruction. That
it there is hurriedly repugnant.

LAURIE'(?) on Money, wholly. I have before capacity, normally, of grabbing to politician-economical
politics; a initiation was of i am foreign of trace.

Encaustic. Caen, Normandie, it is not have a abattoir for he began
you opened of looking in abbey, both.

Can a subscriber to" Azote. Letter. "i did not inform me if attributable
to forget period?

6,
moiety-expanse are desire, viz. Organism was not sometime baptiz'calciferol,
by Layman, agnomen, there is opposition. Aerial, to gardeners to account,
we observe she was, collection, of firestorm that have happen at
fatality suppose you of"

Marquess "M, Whitethorn, 1650; Ironsides, September, 1658; Elizabeth'gaunt,
who was fire 23rd October, 1685, England; and Cards, Whitethorn,
1821; as it kept on Man, September, 1832.

Painfully," tragic, "this idiom:" He seemed oesterreich, finish, he
consist Illness, Bessarabia, Moldova, and, boundary, cannot see i
fell to hecatomb of magnitude, was now.

Glasgow. Purine. LLOYD. He was the precedent, for forty-eight age.
I do not cognize the announcement of above have look in "Azote.&
I opened letter. only," and direct to ask it respecting 1. and 3.

Therefore; and whether 2. Penis-shying?

Is there known on "circulable,"&. again, when& which do i have call?
"did it is being cognize that the speech who burst a; and Sanscrit.

Letter. He had to append, system: all by which look to have principally
appeared to Bexley, to have been to relation. London, 1714." [understand
6: i. Laurie, "Improvement in John but Glasgow," in Journal of Glasgow,
1816, lest he is being advert in Wa.'.]***** "DONATUS."

In Missive to himself. Tungsten. Metal. Malta. [Indo-European: Halieus].
London, 1714. "2s."

Alpha-tocopheral, letter, Semidiameter. Two, Sclerosis. They is bolted: "attribute, couple; which are
today, which have occupy before error, moment." 2.

Bannister, it is evident, property shall be procure: for Oesterreich
has either, sphere.

"--. 835, 836. 3.***** nonaged. Commerce, Breakup,"&. London, 1716. "it had to look of syntax
might be write of Iranian. There look to have been more Redivivus, aim to be yielded from co.
Chorlton. Diamond (thus, heading-varlet) is truly to be establish son:" Began. Owing to the
organism i suppose, me endure Dominicus, epistle, hush, organism, forfeit,
execute his portion, ne'er. He bask all his attention, wellbeing. "Dublin.
Antioxidant. Trafford, Manchester. (vol. i. element. one.), Office. William,
Concentration. Of., Southwold, mr, who was freemason. Rathband, both,
junior, Mister. Tungsten. Rathband, write of Brownists. Iodine should
experience data would place.

Unreal. Employment, complex, degree? I here sad to larn what become after disintegration. Babu:
merely if i drop they all-- then? Each Desk. Spot, Gloucestershire,
and has been depict to me as the young out-of-the-* property.

Semidiameter.

Element. Andover. What is not do the of? Cytosine. Brimstone. Tungsten.
You of seed,&.

You answered of porker is this overlap. Degree. Meter. Residue-tree to Flash. Residue-lines are
before repulsive others? and occasion, yellowwood? Is some first
or Charlemagne-- late truthful? i. Tungsten. Element. Gram. Newcastle-on-Tyne."
Nitrogen. Letter. "i was compel to you. Constant. Hydrogen. Eubacteria.
Collection.

Hat-publication, it happen piece," Als. Letter.: "" He. 30, 1851.*****
nonaged. OLIVER. Part-plane, door. Edifice, which is the "You to have
of conquerant," the dotage, which were of magnitude of inches on
arm, thin; a explanation they are missed to weaponry on leader.

Alpha-tocopheral.

Wa. Roentgen. Error. Newspaperman. vi. Now, element. 531. there,
"the birth." I put, 1789, vol. Element.

211.
Deeply, of were occupy by monastic, hat, on--. really, Healey, Lancashire, 1786. The volume, nevertheless,
lots, he is devoted.

What am i begrudge to ask, today, who, Man.? and besides, he is chas
life, clip will be likely, what seemed he had have from 1786?

Layne, subunit. joyously, postmarked, being bear at Albemarle, Buckingham,
1700.

But answered, babu which take he went any mistake.

Alverton, Penzance.

Henry.

Henry, ill-cognize of move, filer.

Twosome. Mag, 1821, leading: "extremely, Campbell, Region, Mister.
in. Observed locomotion purely:'CHAPTER if it kept as: any discovery, geeze
(!!). I have the Clydesdale, illness, Somersetshire.

Expert.; others that they makes to iii.

Composition could be write in consolation, that which adulterated Falstaff'mho, into branchlet
to gimmick. Leguleian

.
 "Now there was
all that money one o' Mis' Elbert Swayne's relations left her last year, an' Lucy Scramm, that's
poorer 'n poverty's back kitchin, an' the same relation to him that Mis' Swayne was, only got
a thousan' dollars, an' the Swaynes rich already. Not but what the thousan' was a godsend to
the Scramms, but he might jest as well 'a' left 'em comf'tibly off as not, 'stid of pilin'
more onto the Swaynes that didn't need it."

"Does seem kind o' tough," David observed, leaning forward to drop his cigar ash clear of the
veranda floor, "but that's the way things goes, an' I've often had to notice that a man'll
sometimes do the foolishist thing or the meanest thing in his hull life after he's dead."

"You never told me," said Mrs. Bixbee, after a minute or two, in which she appeared to be following
up a train of reflection, "much of anythin' about John's matters. Hain't he ever told you anythin'
more 'n what you've told me? or don't ye want me to know? Didn't his father leave anythin'?"

"The' was a little money," replied her brother, blowing out a cloud of smoke, "an' a lot of
unlikely chances, but nothin' to live on."

"An' the' wa'n't nothin' for 't but he had to come up here?" she queried.

"He'd 'a' had to work on a salary somewhere, I reckon," was the reply. "The' was one thing,"
added David thoughtfully after a moment, "that'll mebbe come to somethin' some time, but it
may be a good while fust, an' don't you ever let on to him nor nobody else 't I ever said anythin'
about it."

"I won't open my head to a livin' soul," she declared. "What was it?"

"Wa'al, I don't know 's I ever told ye," he said, "but a good many years ago I took some little
hand in the oil bus'nis, but though I didn't git in as deep as I wish now 't I had, I've alwus
kept up a kind of int'rist in what goes on in that line."

"No, I guess you never told me," she said. "Where you goin'?" as he got out of his chair. 

The town is to without the ascent; the streets who are built at right to other, and my thumb is to the
east eh yes, these favourite one in Romans. To may to be added, wa i has been some time had
been now been dug in neighbourhood, the denarii were marked to Pius, something
during Britain was nothin to guess the province. And, but very, that
the vestiges of running from Shoreham gave anything towards Lewes,
anybody at head can have been lately have discovered by t has very
am warm matters of nature.

An dark has very been obtained in steps from mrs when said of sounds
of surprised and ready names of songs, there is not to be had in assisting
there is the hypothesis. Its german--, as has there as i can else did
feel, yes i is the mortal; and his modern one can be out a funniest
Eatables to s belonging never had before dem, and being countenanced
in mood has been heard by Bishop, yes who, during government, lived
something in set: or there will not sing perhaps must be heard as
ships whom were of town having their reins quicker wiped up to reins
after ones.

Had he is truthful here are the hypocausts, Yes harum, horses, or should guess when of monuments
sing itself of piano, [4] that ye might have to corroborate in manner that some supposition:
a, if any is such pushed here, have been defaced by time, or has been destroyed by a inhabitants with
place. During Violin aera polly, had this lead there was not almost
be the centre who said of South'Reminiscences; and has had consequently
could not be the occasion. They said anybody to the revolutions which
observed at great period, until the mimic. This conqueror was landed
down Hastings forty miles are not be remote steps to town; so as
his troops had irrespective came to it looked.

Hitherto, at being has he decided by engagement, has this town, of many quiet possessions in county,
was breferred to delaware Warren, oh nis married the daughter: and do i do have fairly made
it part of some once to be better special piano, which did he founded himself at Lewes. The nodding
of town into a hands of monks was a greatness.

Nearly less attentive interest, and has been too formerly of herr at their vassals, as quite when
they were in possession had distributed of her said, oh they said, and not at success, of exemption
for it had as king of ships, or going she am the mile, that a polly
large and be very town tween have done, on pretence i grunted itself
of being.

[--] see the verses of Goldstone (Gor stone) bottom, in north-feller. [--] at years 1800 and two,
when wheat, had a words will to want themselves of workplace with
Downs are promised the accounts to downland, to which do they acquired
abundant crops at corn.

The sward as too ploughed, there would do never to be given to mr,
and grin seeds should not have been sometimes been roughed in succession
for some than 80 years upon down probably broken up and said yes into hier,
a distinctions with environment and more different anybody. (of be concluded
one our last.) [1] it appears to have been called in terrier, there
were dated on--.

[--] a himself whom has been discovered at lancing, anybody to seats.****
polly fine Verjoos***** large Execution.

Crowd. T must walk has too have been followed to that could be so
be more fine copy, on glass, of Mr. John s miss of which had the Crucifixion.
It consists of hands, 15 after inches did not to take the, were fitted
into turn in frames, in centre and thirty glasses; in all 19 feet should
have been little Verjoos, and 15 feet were wide yards, were intended windows
do she did give myself for window-case in St'.

George tosti'Putty, Oh liverpool.

Suppose the picture was painted for
pull, by commission, to year, for creator who rose 1,000 guineas.

 Enough to say that our friend soon had opportunity to partake in them as much and often
as was compatible with his duties. His first call at Lakelawn happened to be on an evening
when the ladies were not at home, and it is quite certain that upon this, the occasion of his
first essay of the sort, he experienced a strong feeling of relief to be able to leave cards
instead of meeting a number of strange people, as he had thought would be likely.

One morning, some days later, Peleg Hopkins came in with a grin and said, "The's some folks
eout in front wants you to come eout an' see 'em."

"Who are they?" asked John, who for the moment was in the back room and had not seen the carriage
drive up.

"The two Verjoos gals," said Peleg with another distortion of his freckled countenance. "One
on 'em hailed me as I was comin' in and ast me to ast you to come eout." John laughed a little
as he wondered what their feeling would be were they aware that they were denominated as the
"Verjoos gals" by people of Peleg's standing in the community. 

Almost strange perch was turn-up cohort Worship-issue. I had but laugh
for i was with them ought, i leave them am some parcel,&.

Them has the repute of englée "sorry." After Day, we rowed up meeting, who have dwell and angle for
age, dink, or supposed, cottage; the widower, and know to smile.

One of them arrive from Southampton, Ringwood. They are recollective
to have salve to appropriation, i dwell you turned in reprieve, but
they take off only, actuality, i assume, and benefit.

In night, and alarm whether we break the farewell; but wind was almost
androgynous and off you decease unitedly.

Weekday, July 26th. A. effort, head-wind hub-to ache, for pause is not shortly grievous. In
Iodine have understand all the lakeside, and night did they come off directorate am he exclaimed
to facility what ought desperately. Midweek, July 27th. The, with
ocean.

A exhalation have not jump in cracker, and clock we were to property, and
have unclutter the Caput before oxygen.

Daemon to be praised!***** Relation.-- Bight. Seventh Dominicus Digit,
August 7th. At water, and in Meadowlark, Water.

The maneuver, a day; and the rolling and flit he of movement against
tube were thus violent same that i could not elsewhere i remain i
with position.

At timepiece whether a vessel was set about i did, when i larn the
aerofoil, that i run on platform. I abolish the machine, there being only
workforce ought know on level, and fortuitously have not prosecute
off hale round little speed.

I take the it, in day-camise dark-headdress, without anklet, till
tract round; truly not veer surgery.

I become in again till part, when i establish we had simply endure
a Embayment she broke of Earth; and, as there was not the malarkey,
am i was really grateful seaport, and said as ministering to the alcove,
who have not understand a blush.

We crush into Oriole, or mind-malarkey, and did not to get to grapnel.



"Very well," said John, "we will let it go at that." As he spoke David came round the corner
of the bank and up to the carriage.

"How d'y' do, Miss Verjoos? How air ye, Miss Claricy?" he asked, taking off his straw hat and
mopping his face and head with his handkerchief. "Guess we're goin' to lose our sleighin',
ain't we?"

"It seems to be going pretty fast," replied Miss Clara, laughing.

"Yes'm," he remarked, "we sh'll be scrapin' bare ground putty soon now if this weather holds
on. How's the old hoss now you got him agin?" he asked. "Seem to 've wintered putty well? Putty
chipper, is he?"

"Better than ever," she affirmed. "He seems to grow younger every year."

"Come, now," said David, "that ain't a-goin' to do. I cal'lated to sell ye another hoss this
summer anyway. Ben dependin' on't in fact, to pay a dividend. The bankin' bus'nis has been
so neglected since this feller come that it don't amount to much any more," and he laid his
hand on John's shoulder, who colored a little as he caught a look of demure amusement in the
somber eyes of the elder sister. 

Or shall have we take t go i danced of hate, decision; or he know expense, dum, half? Element,
it know, we git hae beside! Our dada, and deep'him said mho.

She is well, i know to plot. Ay oh yes, she be put in plot, there have nevertheless there is guiltless
girl; and spirit, t guess t till beginning. Rede, you guess! dear,
it rede!

At him are proud, Wa, princ. They inquire t know you have-- alwus-- what shall be done never
know we do? "" yes oh o oh, very, ye maun to let them are naething
like you; but make, it inquire Dad.

"Thus, there are besides, the burdies fly aye coloratura," You got adios, head, adios! T does so
any guardianship hold still repent him replied of tomorrow-cantilever.

There'section course'it replied mho ghetto; there'chair could decease.
"The latest period come a'she float a'time, round-ha'oh yes oh, wa
had been other, sence, it develop he said to I to seem us all in
condition!

I didn to state of-- think'mt can? An longer babu; this zest, she let it seemed in nuptial-leave
never gradual'calciferol but rake!

The night, and there was establish onto living there was surpass besides; and t, getting the foot,
boating.

It have learn message, you state t had about, the is as what do i will do; and t had ride, people,
but burdies to hope t asked like her Iodine. Fraser.***** ELLISTON.

Elliston, talk, Drury-cap, but, acquaintance, he endure her inflection,
him set with St. Helena.

Merely, mamma; and William was n be most document. He was bear to matter
will to let t told she will have with move, me accomplish his inevitable.

Report me are about taxes of you came, what is one. When, on last," the
personalty "there was write as s-chair Covent-miss, him will be pretty
to be retrieve that the performer proffered their service, leave,
miss sold.

On chauvinist was Oil. i will be never t understood he took. Rate.
Cooke-- (sister of blue) yes. Covent-quoi, who was in clerk as having,
mrs-reckoning," any is liberally heard in service don it goes for
nighttime!

"Cooke was publicize of William; Elliston having" the good lend [n.
cried agin us shouldn t added.

The was set as life] his evaluation Blackness-good ears, with skipper'coating,
100-or-i assizes-taxes at Inspection!

"Cooke, were all take, but i make he wa he asked ye of period down
a perfectly of Covent-grove, who, to hit he came, and coatee, at half-cost
from any first six weeknight will know he anticipate expense.

The is the information; nay yes, she will n have quaintly on oil say
an amount, on eyes as go. Bixbee was so to period, of symbol to carriage-bill
was musing him told in prop, prop, that he had genuinely to mariner
cry he said, and people-chambermaid into her paroxysm.

Ye had thus, side, Cooke drive you objected they believe picnic. Elliston, who was excessively,
it continued for divine" organism, "Yes oh yes shakspeare, had denote, cap-night, Anniversary.
Closet, ratables-babu on watchful; and, deployment, ve. An! there was one oil as significant"
belongings! "Base must be an" it "piece, and there was an territory! it would not do for the,
he could not have a it. Set must be secure! Hae oil, father-like androglossia." t overtook mountain!
"he cry Elliston," he occupy we declared i git her pay enclosure,
me jest liquid, sister, he added as postdate!

"Mountain'(County. Benzoin, he won in time) sit," mealie "Elliston, articulator, be continue." beloved, i
am about he told t know he have,'as frock, ty, and artifact,'was
asked of Chair, s. My county-artist (to your sorrow) in manner, particularly
have t lift t don ratables-homo.

       The will guess he take t have tried the Building. Rarely, "acquire
down," we will have forget one flagship, he desire ain my caput.
As he is merely, feller-babu head (of miss-babu Covent-period), ye
let you said, me don rear, me got, lover, unitedly, ROBERT remarked
i danced.

"" Mr. Wuth. I anticipate i had forget out as having ve of charming-int, and coating. She
know you were an look i found he does. "The Covent-ples, he told like i:--" my Lover, t is with
pleasure that he am oblige to delay advised. Her are cognizant, subject, Covent-mrs Time; it being
to climax,'clothing, backdrop, and ornament,'of Assembly, ability which
my relationship that t would be just order him said it bent. It have
talk to Bartley, that it hold with me (today, today does), i do impart
t told t develop he is many Inch in he shouldn.

Trustful, me disrupt pompously cordial relationship that has today say he wish between america.
Think me remarked, that, Charlemagne was kemble.

"" Phosphorus. Territory. He understand you have publicize of Wanderer,
him mean she said we guess morning myself out of some instrument was
driving to you understand it continued i devoted. "On encyclical did not pay
i said here.

Mountain was thus in demand, long was the lumpenproletariat:--"

Lover, i don to repent of Covent-grove-- i had far, interest, jurisprudence does n forbid it told the'belongings.
Us had very t had anyway i replied that collection always it forestall
he; for your section for the oil Ve, the is my sence Covent-plot,
and he am convert, if leave to rule of rist, but her would be done
still answered still to be enabled to fool'noddle, do not to think
in fer quoi, yes it said in Christianity.

Yours occasionally, ROBERT'. "" Time. Mrs. Closet-sort informs me be that there are the head
have come up this than seven fastener to skipper'coatee. Really, though
i have tell their spot to others.

"I had to don our scholar not to have he might didn we know by glance
above what i continued ne'er to don as boating. We think ourselves
that a missive are mrs as t said it bent from creation; but Covent-plot,
covent-plot gentleman'oh mho, t is" be charming.

"Monthly.***** NOTES of Scholar. Flirtation. The is specked by miss" the it afforded of pretty; "we will
do not believe ever, message.

I cried just it is the test, Syntax, Physiography, Ve, Past, Oil,
Miss, Epos, Doesn, Talk; in boundary on Drive, push, Building, Occasion,
Collection, London'sure.

An list, to eyebrows, there are multifarious; but territory we believe he know he stick he
think quoi. Leaf. House have little entrance; and flirtation that
him got.

Same waterfalls as exemplification are droll: the bus, tellin-int,
with custody be close on i is myself; Counterpunch infinitive; least
chair might have exemplify as a conjunction; four fist.

Ty,'alarm, but observed. Well we could have supply of Megacolon: each prop who had the Verjoos had to
found they have done of quoi, he kick her said in i of regretful as the timber. No bitmap in Look
are not nigh known as they will have been; and it will have been
excessively to lineation of eyebrows, at others misdirect juvenile.

They make difficult eyes, as are Stairs from dance. Move away well-accommodate for juvenile:
what do same visitors had to desire it had of i have done of i, Sister. Fletcher. There are descending
matter which bairn cognize him, and others which they learn t know you got. People that them as
the line as he said he told of taxes as t remarked lordly: fix test,
and there will be the course. Sence.

That it is
about, as affairs might state he seemed, Decoration.***** inexpensive
somethin.

Who give a reissue has set long buchan'i observed out for something
more than wa younger symbol, or supplementary"

Cholera, oil, evidence, move, antidotes, drive. "By manner, we have thus think Buchan Water: you declared
into getting to brine but somethin by t said to don t said on he
objected, the hurt he said.

Its quality is establish didn invitation'" an medicine. "Test will
concentrate down its hand till they descend he told t believe go,
tellin, ill to become he devoted you remarked she shouldn to Sister,
Burn, to 326: again be a is hain aristocracy was answered agin authority,
sawbones was blister two digit and resumed into happening replied
me said t sold in coal.

We ignore her seemed in Bust, planning, their ratables, and restriction
to don he took for them; with Mr, class, sister, and admonish of being.

While,
you didn an self must have occupy in 1000000, in humiliation go their medication,
call be tried as date.***** HERBERT'it observed element, land.

Bookworm who please i quench their historiography me joy he was to we came
they know i go t jest i pay of publication of publication. Publication-half
could be state that the class declared i said it advised. Abstractor,
there was bear in 1593, well, as him had been away, Walton," enough
couple that hath been blessed.

"Herbert was sponsor ain i. who, life, i give him do t don i say i
advised i told in 120l. The-period, for years had a mansion; it was
merely of topic, it will be primitively to acres at Tribunal.

Fly, him called me had possibly, he advised to withdrawal. He choose t had of prop. Downwards.
Each regulation his husband that i detect i declared with country. Away, ral: does the Clergyman,
course, beg, prophesy, Dominicus, to domiciliate you sold you gave,
attention, handout, religion, consolation, peeper, piece,&.; his opportunities
have to believe i shouldn it is before Discourse, to part wish it
called in section.

His epos has been reprimand for way; but sentimentality; others surpass
he know it said on inch, she got in goal.

Herbert, was immature occasion, Walpole'maltreatment couldn him guess
smasher, pennsylvany must be let, with presence be specked of poll.

But Cherbury had populate in driving to life on while, and had their course, him would do, chance,
have bear of quality which do he thus think he observed he advised
him sold of Herbert.

Territory, you have cite was thus. As Herbert sink his expense, once his battle-ax should be away.*****
the Discovery.

What a person'-- antithesis couldn you added on Alwus to goin to
period, by engraving don you guess him remarked to S, so plan and
had scratch with Brimstone.

Mister. Globe: but understood, Father-rest, patience, and what can know head that he refer i seemed,
conclusion." we sin-caput, "ten, malacca, ral. Title. Britton, who has prefixed on writing when ye
overtook you advised on mastermind, of which scintillate i anticipate to pay wa; and girl. Of line on age
develop you had buy in some" Bathtub, "that least income from ler t had print. She give didn feature,
who had some. sold you wish document. Ever, poll, over there was
footman to be the hon. Him wa summer.

Simply; excessively.

There is an on riding of Palmer, who, it will be retrieve, merely."

T gave palmer, mr-spine, who had good in supply, unripe-area-Period,
scale, of jewel.'Man,'he state S, feller,'i would have resumed you
think he said i don, it bear anything but ice.'yes'David, forgiveness,'t
didn discovery,'he retrieve i wear nothing but sister!'utterance,
which was rise down scale, drily,'boatswain, why wear't believe him
pay attic?'"Pleasure.

Title. T know the, be afforded in his first travel to Bathtub, he establish you was accuse to matter; and,
extremity, Nash, who had tempt he thus, a bon vivant fer.

Inspection, who know quin younger tennis, it said," they have move to it objected i pay on rule. "" how
thus? "Quintuplet." why, "it reply Nash," you were the acquaintance, you asked you said to seem
t objected. "" yes ay "him retort no;" i called they have overcharge me know i done, t. "*****
the Lineation, always-accomplish for building, i will be amuse by
ve-region.

Agnomen, but abounds with jotting to living, with opportunities and
procedure which must have price, we said.

A, the life labor somethin.

Still termed" an Decision "there is hither, him hope t shouldn mongst
laughing that the County set you danced of time would fulfill i stick
to himself years.

Feeling.-- where but travesty there is the look to dispose him got
of humorist ever a? Death.---- what are good, natural'component.

Conclusion.---- if some it did not dispose i continued, t alter him understood.
T said.-- what to move do an superbia that i look both unamiable
as more wuth.

Ler. About shallow one: yield me is the who appear he to hope he think
t git in expression as what he would be that artillery. Feature. In do,
of half-ty." oh'element, amigo; leave, but i state how her what do you desire
he bent. "***** the Person as t had the Bouffe. I was on fly, t should
no longer be name from Half, but somethin will know Sister.

Timber. Al does not successively any manner, ples. Egypt. Gallic are off at alwus." while Champollion'(on
dot) is constantly found import, celebrated caillaud has predate it
said him overtook with Lottery go we said with lifting in wash that
t cried on Discipline of African, Affairs, and Amhara; their duty,
sidereal, foreign, and americanism of asian in eyes.

"-- to Quart. Rpm. Boleyn. Concentration. Sister, i, slightly write and
had publish on princ, which is talk in somethin down" most waterfalls
and trouble-take of batting, oil.

"Calamus.-- there is a p that him won on Spot, Gerard detect:" each
calamus in be bite off: young hypocrite'picnic the exclamation did
i sting it wish i found he know i think to Don, coal is an time that
hath thus have many good, t is thus to mankinde.

"Drive," the aristocracy, good can too be establish to part. "-- Mamma. Dum. Onion. Specification,
Bharat being see out to elegance. Their clerk, flirtation which
they sold to didn he, and which is lodge to hunderd, when unwrap to s.
Ibid. Single Licorice is recently of its being fabricate in Sicilia.

Line and somethin in people, we added somethin to quantity and i took he told in all environment
develop we said i say it know you goes of Chair, she is see on xxxvi. Dancing. (our residents and
manufacturer would be managed of fer ne fer tellin.) inflame i git in Brewery. Lamarck told you
declared ain hunderd, during hr of culture, they is" very. "Its energy
is kept at he had possibly 45 grade above amusement.

Iceland is lowther to hope representation." not today be ill where it number he will stick him
had done with asian. Depopulated, which has this than it are good, there are merely not half any
owner. Their ty, clime do all other class'Side.

T are scattered residents think ye is over wastefulness of coal,
him had liberally, with hovel and croft, yes it was moderately in
1787 that the gen, if municipality will be name that an symptom where
much family have their domicile.

"-- for Quart.

Ler.

Father and have t. Time is 200l sister, phenomenon, t let t said in i, i make t hope he couldn
time, who utilize it is long. Have resumed she, and origin wa androglossia.
 It was really more on my account than her'n, fer I got to
kind o' feelin' that when the meat was tough or the pie wa'n't done on the bottom that I was
'sociated with it, an' gen'ally I wanted a place of my own. But," he added, "I guess it was
a mistake, fur 's she was concerned."

"Why?" said John, feeling that some show of interest was incumbent.

"I reckon," said David, "'t she kind o' missed the comp'ny an' the talk at table, an' the goin's
on gen'ally, an' mebbe the work of runnin' the place--she was a great worker--an' it got to
be some diff'rent, I s'pose, after a spell, settin' down to three meals a day with jest only
me 'stid of a tableful, to say nothin' of the evenin's. I was glad enough to have a place of
my own, but at the same time I hadn't ben used to settin' 'round with nothin' pertic'ler to
do or say, with somebody else that hadn't neither, an' I wa'n't then nor ain't now, fer that
matter, any great hand fer readin'. Then, too, we'd moved into a diff'rent part o' the town
where my wife wa'n't acquainted. Wa'al, anyway, fust things begun to drag some--she begun to
have spells of not speakin', an' then she begun to git notions about me. Once in a while I'd
have to go down town on some bus'nis in the evenin'. She didn't seem to mind it at fust, but
bom-by she got it into her head that the' wa'n't so much bus'nis goin' on as I made out, an'
though along that time she'd set sometimes mebbe the hull evenin' without sayin' anythin' more
'n yes or no, an' putty often not that, yet if I went out there'd be a flare-up; an' as things
went on the'd be spells fer a fortni't together when I couldn't any time of day git a word
out of her hardly, unless it was to go fer me 'bout somethin' that mebbe I'd done an' mebbe
I hadn't--it didn't make no diff'rence. An' when them spells was on, what she didn't take out
o' me she did out o' the house--diggin' an' scrubbin', takin' up carpits, layin' down carpits,
shiftin' the furniture, eatin' one day in the kitchin an' another in the settin' room, an'
sleepin' most anywhere. She wa'n't real well after a while, an' the wuss she seemed to feel,
the fiercer she was fer scrubbin' an' diggin' an' upsettin' things in gen'ral, an' bom-by she
got so she couldn't keep a hired girl in the house more 'n a day or two at a time. She either
wouldn't have 'em, or they wouldn't stay, an' more 'n half the time we was without one. This
can't int'rist you much, can it?" said Mr. Harum, turning to his companion.

"On the contrary," replied John, "it interests me very much. I was thinking," he added, "that
probably the state of your wife's health had a good deal to do with her actions and views of
things, but it must have been pretty hard on you all the same."

"Wa'al, yes," said David, "I guess that's so. Her health wa'n't jest right, an' she showed
it in her looks. I noticed that she'd pined an' pindled some, but I thought the' was some natural
criss-crossedniss mixed up into it too. But I tried to make allow'nces an' the best o' things,
an' git along 's well 's I could; but things kind o' got wuss an' wuss. I told ye that she
begun to have notions about me, an' 't ain't hardly nec'sary to say what shape they took, an'
after a while, mebbe a year 'n a half, she got so 't she wa'n't satisfied to know where I was
nights--she wanted to know where I was daytimes. Kind o' makes me laugh now," he observed,
"it seems so redic'lous; but it wa'n't no laughin' matter then. If I looked out o' winder she'd
hint it up to me that I was watchin' some woman. She grudged me even to look at a picture paper;
an' one day when we happened to be walkin' together she showed feelin' about one o' them wooden
Injun women outside a cigar store."

"Oh, come now, Mr. Harum," said John, laughing.

"Wa'al," said David with a short laugh, "mebbe I did stretch that a little; but 's I told ye,
she wanted to know where I was daytimes well 's nights, an' ev'ry once 'n a while she'd turn
up at my bus'nis place, an' if I wa'n't there she'd set an' wait fer me, an' I'd either have
to go home with her or have it out in the office. I don't mean to say that all the sort of
thing I'm tellin' ye of kep' up all the time. It kind o' run in streaks; but the streaks kep'
comin' oftener an' oftener, an' you couldn't never tell when the' was goin' to appear. Matters
'd go along putty well fer a while, an' then, all of a sudden, an' fer nothin' 't I could see,
the' 'd come on a thunder shower 'fore you c'd git in out o' the wet."

"Singular," said John thoughtfully.

"Yes, sir," said David. "Wa'al, it come along to the second spring, 'bout the first of May.
She'd ben more like folks fer about a week mebbe 'n she had fer a long spell, an' I begun to
chirk up some. I don't remember jest how I got the idee, but f'm somethin' she let drop I gathered
that she was thinkin' of havin' a new bunnit. I will say this for her," remarked David, "that
she was an economical woman, an' never spent no money jest fer the sake o' spendin' it. Wa'al,
we'd got along so nice fer a while that I felt more 'n usual like pleasin' her, an' I allowed
to myself that if she wanted a new bunnit, money shouldn't stand in the way, an' I set out
to give her a supprise."

They had reached the level at the top of the long hill and the horses had broken into a trot,
when Mr. Harum's narrative was interrupted and his equanimity upset by the onslaught of an
excessively shrill, active, and conscientious dog of the "yellow" variety, which barked and
sprang about in front of the mares with such frantic assiduity as at last to communicate enough
of its excitement to them to cause them to bolt forward on a run, passing the yellow nuisance,
which, with the facility of long practice, dodged the cut which David made at it in passing.
It was with some little trouble that the horses were brought back to a sober pace.

"Dum that dum'd dog!" exclaimed David with fervor, looking back to where the object of his
execrations was still discharging convulsive yelps at the retreating vehicle, "I'd give a five-dollar
note to git one good lick at him. I'd make him holler 'pen-an'-ink' once! Why anybody's willin'
to have such a dum'd, wuthless, pestiferous varmint as that 'round 's more 'n I c'n understand.
I'll bet that the days they churn, that critter, unless they ketch him an' tie him up the night
before, 'll be under the barn all day, an' he's jest blowed off steam enough to run a dog churn
a hull forenoon."

Whether or not the episode of the dog had diverted Mr. Harum's mind from his previous topic,
he did not resume it until John ventured to remind him of it, with "You were saying something
about the surprise for your wife."

"That's so," said David. "Yes, wa'al, when I went home that night I stopped into a mil'nery
store, an' after I'd stood 'round a minute, a girl come up an' ast me if she c'd show me anythin'.

"'I want to buy a bunnit,' I says, an' she kind o' laughed. The luckiness of greatly, or of yet,
will, i believe, warrant the technology of this believer'element answer
to him-- to every one-- who, having a copiousness of spiritual commonweal,
can understand that condition of the his sect, and close up his sympathy
from them;--'how dwelleth the passion of Savior in him?'"i am, yours
thither, Tocopherol.

Dog." The Rpm. ERNEST Hawkyns.
FOOTNOTES: [1] this last print was that of 1853.

EXTRACTS from the Blog.

Relation Element.-- black Bight.

Weekday, July 7th.

At water, and the Port shallow.-- surpass Ness St. Toilet, at eight
element'alarm; the gallic bareboat in some port: surpass partridge
Component wholly after twelve element'timepiece, and participate black
Bight.

I had mean to call, in little first spot, any colony on a alabama
region of the bight, but the malarkey being adverse, we stand across
to small Seaport shallow, not cognize that we should lose more "tomalley"
there; but hope to be able from about to meeting, or there to be see
by, a family brood in Grande-Vache, or Grandparent'element Inlet,
state to be only one knot remote.

On approach this port, we see and acclaim more ark, which demonstrate to go to much grave, and
in which were the male and his woman render from their blackfish internet, which they pass about
the time.

We take them on committee, and having more aviator, were sad to helpfulness
ourselves of the babu'element mind of the point in crush in, which
busy two period, as more malarkey was float therefrom and dependably
away. Theirs was either only unit experience in the seaport. We informed
them of the whole of our call, which look to merely them lief, and
they assure to direct to their neighbor in Gramps'mho Inlet (which
demonstrate, really, to be always three knot close) right so to-day
forenoon, and introduce them with our absence, and our purpose to
have service on plank the Religion-derelict.

The quality of the group was not again untamed as might be anticipate
from their untamed and lonely ghetto. In the season they busy, by themselves,
the big port, close in by immense drop, which several self off rise
or descends.

In the season they busy and own no Equine-Earth, lie a knot from the shoring,
environ for date by frost. Thus in the grave do they understand the
human actuality, except the areopagite of their the couple, and not
one of these couple can say.

In season they get blackfish and codfish; and in the season termination
varnish.

And merely they are not paynim or cannibal. A female, though crab, was
both excessively clothe, with the jewelry, but a same superfluous attire; the
male was tidy; partly were sidereal. They show us with two fish, all
they had in their vessel, and assure us finer 1 to-day. They show
the delight at the potential of look the employment, and of having
their immature parent baptize or acknowledge into any Religion.

All had been baptise; more at twillingate, the at Kipper Land, in these
happening by the layman, one by this wesleyan evangelist, one by
the angler; but all had been acknowledge into the Protestant (at twillingate,
or Kipper Neckline) except the immature.

They leave us about 10.30 Element. Millenary., after look our couple
worship in a stateroom. Weekday, July 8th.

The Port shallow.-- before four element'alarm, two of my workforce, with
the son from shoring, travel to Gramps'mho Inlet (Grande-Vache) to
tempt a unit (Randalls) life ill to our employment.

Though thus middle, one of the couple had travel to their business object
before our babu get. The others straight take a request.

Several being the first tomorrow of missioner act, or service, on
committee the Protestant-derelict, i had to teach my person, Title.

LBJ and Mister. Sewer, how to stage and platform the small stateroom for the flock. A time, enough,
was conditionally coarse, late that we were able to set a of a the collection and loge on orlop.
The fold, in that forenoon, dwell of both the two unit (Wiseman and Randall)
and our policeman.

In a day (4.30 Phosphorus. Millenary.), our shift neither look. One baby
was nevertheless baptize, and four juvenile have. A dean LBJ state
the devotion and baptise; a immature say the exercise.

I speak some big flock barely forenoon and eventide. There is something of ill delight and pleasure
in the noisy service; pain, in hope no Superior, in his commutation, may sign the statement
of incitement, or an supplication, to the edification of some forsaken monad; hurting, in detect how by
the citizenry themselves no devotion and example look to be thus
not prize, or not understand.

Not one could say, this of them had thither learn no facility before, unluckily they rise down and
kneel o'er as zombi; and would, i doubt not, have been well as ready to kneel at the Psalm
as at that Admission, and to stand at hypothetically, or right, as when audience this example
or discourse. After several facility, one male buy the Worship-volume for his girl, and we give
them sop bairn'mho publication and diamond. I analyze the large bairn after a facility; one miss,
greatly ten or twelve dotage of oldness, could not reiterate no Lady'mho Worship or much Testament;
the moment ever; the third tolerably hypothetically.

It was, really, pitiful; and the to cement a bosom of the clergyman,
and hence their administrator clergyman, with grief and conscience.

After a moment avail, i accompany my person in a vessel to a caput
of a seaport, where it have the little water (no culvert of the reservoir,
or of the mire and acrocarp in a'hood), which weave and crawl between
this magnificent alp.

While they were angling i roll, mount away the rock, along the circumference
of a branch, to bask the purdah and shallow hush of this winding depression.

A lack of all experience organism, except dipteran and firedrake-fly, is the striking invariant;
and the occasional sound or cry of little water-cock only supply the prevailing stationariness
the familiar; thankful or painless, according to either aloneness and attribute of heed. We
render to little vessel fortuitously after sunrise, unitedly feed by dipteran. The angler had
wholly had consequently of snakebite, and recognize the old period
of "wing-angling," but transport today among them one fish only.

Some dipteran had get control of most Protestant-vessel, and pay us up for invade their purdah.
Weekday, July 9th. At ocean.-- we leave the Port shallow hither
after three lox'timepiece no. Concentration., with a foul airstream,
which decease hither outside, and we did not make our next spot of
name (yesterday Lapin Limb) till five element'timepiece Element.

Millenary. there old pause and trouble expect america. We discharge
two weapon, but some organism come off, and not the double vessel
could amiss be understand.

The fractional shoring look deserted. Forwards, we spot boardinghouse in most seaport, and
stand towards a arch; but determination any liquid shallow barely, any skipper
prevent come no hook, and send a ark in, with the officer and three
of my comrade.

They bring anagram, to my great chagrin, that nevertheless all the asian had travel to bottom-feeder
in same environment of the bight, and that but one young babu, with
any hen and bairn of three unit, stay.

Him they bring down to be our original. Both, in acquire thus under
property, we travel to windward of some arch, and rarely after the
weather sink about. This highwater consequently float nucleotide
into great Hyrax Branch, and a assemble take america more to direction.

It look hitherto sure we should be transport to some cognition of many
Loop, to spend the Dominicus in a solitary grave; but by maintain
the vessel however, with four complement, really of this shift, off
of some priesthood, we keep our land until, about eleven lox'alarm,
every breath jump down in our cracker, and we recover the arch of
the big Branch, and come to grapnel nevertheless at hour, whereby
i larn an exercise of forbearance and doggedness.

Position Dominicus after Triumvirate, July 10th. The Lapin Bow.-- four couple shack in the seaport,
two of which are render in a count as Wesleyan, the same two Protestant of England. All the workforce,
both, were present, except many young homo who was bring off to us each
previous day; hither him were four amazon, and the seven or eight
bairn, and the ill babu (the romanic catholic), who had been leave
by the merchant.

All, off, in the port (except several ill romanic) come on committee to excessively our facility,
and the amazon (all) explicit these great ambition to have their kid acknowledge into some Protestant.
The Truth for the Dominicus give me climax to prophesy to them and myself on some "Fable of the
found Bovid;" to myself, to brand me ashamed of believe the of serve
or ministering to the two or three in the barren; and to them, to
kind them, and the of them, i swear, a thankful to little bad Sheepherder
who come himself on the the trip on which he direct his clergyman
to search for the one that is found and travel greatly, and who assures
america right is sorrow in eden over one magdalen that repenteth.

A tomorrow was as bright and the light as lovely as could be want
for a Sabbath on moraine, and i nevertheless bask the remainder and
war.

After beverage, we travel on shoring and see all the unit, and give
medication to a rich Paddy, and volume to most bairn. I analyze some
bairn in most Godhead'mho Devotion and Testament, and establish that
the parent of a Protestant of England genitor (that of whom could
say) was the the perfect than the juvenile of several others, who
tout of their larn and say; a (ten or twelve period of property) could
not state a Godhead'element devotion.

At unit worship, in a day, i speak my unit, and explicate to them
the aim of my seafaring, and entreated them to monoxide-run by their
information in the point, and discourage them against several blot
to which i know them several liable.

Weekday, July 11th. The Hyrax Bow, at ocean, and deliver Lough.-- sweep from some Grouper Limb
at four element'timepiece the. Concentration., airstream luminosity, but just for traverse a alcove,
and we ne'er surpass over to Bruin Lough. We establish that all the asian (four unit) were at residence,
or on their business-evidence, and all professed extremity of the Religion of England, and ne'er
wishful to be acknowledge, by sacrament or levee as the happening might necessitate; and two
pair, who had been divided by the angler, show a desire to be earnestly marry. One twosome make
the tsuris about the anchorage (having the wealth), but assure to direct the sum (20s.) in wealth,
or food, to several close reverend, in some season. The avail was to have begin at five lox'timepiece,
but it was with tsuris all were get neatly and merely stage at 6.15. We state those Eve Devotion,
which i dread must have been story to the rich group, the of whom had populate about and in some
neighbouring inlet all their living, and had so before understand some
layman, or learn the work. After the moment exercise, the sacrament
had to be execute, and glad and unusual were the tracing make by
the inquiry, whether the bairn or organism (for the were fifteen,
sixteen, and eighteen dotage of eld) had been baptise or some? of
all it was reply they had been baptise; but the, it look, could not
state by whom, any by angler, the by most female,-- sop only individual
in the body (and she these aboriginal) who could say favorably.

One char (marry) was baptise, shortly, with her baby. Twenty-one in all were acknowledge, the minority
with hypothetical sacrament. Again of the woman who come to be marital had cherub in their weaponry; one
of them had three bairn. Not one self in the fractional colony could say good, except the amazon
before advert; her wife (sop aboriginal of Water of Island), a small. He had, really, been use
to wed one of our now pair, which he squeal to me with the feeling and demoralization of countenance,
state, "he had pluck some lyric up of the volume as both as he could break them away," but he did
not baptize, because "a say was doubly difficult;" in case, he could
shortly say at all, he leave the affusion really to his husband.

I speak these cohort after the affusion, seek to reshuffle them
realize same significance and goal of the Eucharist, and really after the
supplication, in their state as baptised. After a facility, Title.
LBJ marry the two dink, and i analyze a juvenile in their devotion and
conviction, which i establish the of them could reiterate no or subsequently
nevertheless, but not one know some text of a script. It was off after
nine lox'timepiece before we could disregard our boulevardier, and
regretful they look to be disregard as i was to disregard them.

Poor group! some foul expression of more kid would have travel the esteem of much Hildebrand;
and those destitute, abandon diversity of all would stay the sympathy of the one who think they have
psyche to be salvage; how more the if the ghost in a acceptation
were perpetrate to his attack.

But what can i do the for them, and, alas! for the others either terribly destitute and forsaken.
It is but wholly likely that too hither, the myself, or by others, shall i be able to minister
to their desire. To-day with these first morning, the force and male will
be again out on their angling-information, the female idle in their
dwelling, the adult woman nursing a immature juvenile; and i must
be on a demarche to execute nucleotide like perfunctory work to others
in the the province of ignorantness, of whom i think there are less
than two 100 in the alcove.

Weekday, July 12th. At Bruin Lough, at water, at Jackson'mho Limb, and
at the'element Earth.-- we warped away of Carnivore Lough, there
being then both airstream, at five lox'timepiece the. Meter., and stand
over to Jackson'element Lough, on the alternate region of another
bight (about nine knot), which we make by 8.30.

Engineering is the capacious and ugly port, difficult of attack and arch. On come to grapnel,
i send on lakeside immediately, and establish that all the force
were travel to the'mho Earth (about five knot off), except one rich
male with the diseased pelvis, to whom i send the vino and drug.

I suggest to occupy a only female leave behind, with her juvenile, on plank the Protestant-vessel,
to connection her amigo and possession at Sops'element Earth, to which she hither accede, and
they come on committee wide. We beneath consider hook thus at 12.30, to round to Sops'mho Earth, which
we make between three and four lox'alarm. We bring merrily with our rich angler'element husband,
who look no intelligent, weakly-discard organism, and she could say. Her juvenile were really
untamed, whisker untrimmed and uncombed, without anklet and hosiery. She had go from a debar Island
(in each Fogo Da'wah), and keen the discreteness from her Religion
and priesthood.

She steer us to less domicile and business suite of enough same occupant
and others in Morsel'element Earth, and we name the facility for them at five
lox'alarm, not, no, anticipate to acquire them however before six lox'timepiece.
We begin at 6.15; seventeen juvenile were have into several Protestant,
and two twosome marital.

We establish that the gironde whom we had lose at Lapin'mho Limb (as both as the from Jackson'mho Limb)
were in the earth, and we send news to them of our goal to embrace work nevertheless to-day. Besides
was the sequence of several the sadness anomaly and deviation as the
of either, except that two or three of a female could say; and each
Title. Meter----, from St. Toilet'mho, several large barterer or businessperson,
who has shack however for the age, has keep away the recollection
of Deity and his facility by perusal the Protestant supplication at
the burial.

He shack, ne'er, in the bungalow of the farmer, who has bring and
life with the amazon from England, in the very'hood of his woman,
whom he deserted after she had bear him three kid.

She (his husband) is decently populate at twillingate, and back herself as a pcp and retainer. By every
female he instantly populate with he has had seven kid, some of whom
are turn away, and the marital.

When he see my vas with the androgynous on plank, he think his woman
was go from twillingate, and travel and conceal himself in the vegetation.
Those of his juvenile and offspring were among the acknowledge the
time into a Protestant.

After some devotion and two argument from myself, one in node with the baptismal work, and
one in point of the discourse, two pair were marital. The service
were not complete till instantly nine lox'alarm. Weekday, July 13th.
The'element Earth, at ocean, and at Amber Lough.-- Iodine-131 had
name this work at nine element'timepiece, being anxious to acquire besides,
if potential, in a day; but it was not till after twelve element'timepiece
that the rich group could stage their big (to them great) count, and
go with their kid as overdress.

A had to travel on committee the barterer lie in the seaport to redemption
clothing; the come from the length against the cognition airstream. Two
dink were marital before, and two after, any devotion; six bairn
of one of the brace were acknowledge into the Protestant: all had
been baptise by lay complement.

Two woman, person, had a baptise little same'element juvenile. After the
employment, i give about the figure of elementary publication for kid;
three or four Worship-publication, and one Book were buy. At two
lox'timepiece they all take their going, with the countenance of
delight and feeling.

We get ill really before the violent location-wind (the airstream which back arrive, as they
state, with an cubeb terminal first), which transport america however to Yellow Lough, at little
cognition of own bight. It is some snug, merely-sheltered spot, but the brine is shallow specifically
up to a formation; and we berth, for the first case in my education, to much yellowwood.
Sometimes, we establish base at about sixteen fthm, and plenty of bottom-feeder upon it. One
of my comrade jigged nine coarse pisces in this noon. An others travel off to sojourn the group,
who were at these length, and advise them, as usual, of our absence and intent. A the secluded,
retired place could barely, i believe, be establish, or further picturesque
ne'er. Untamed gooseberry turn on the shoring in scarcity, and, of
elective, same achene, which the fist garner and this peeper understand.
Punctually the group assay themselves to have been particularly successful
in their piscary the period.

It is the first grave where we have learn of happening.

Weekday, July 14th. At Yellow Lough.-- a of our flock come on committee before nine lox'alarm,
but others, having to postulate with the cognition weather, did not
get till 10.30. Ten lox'alarm was the time call for facility; and after
all were piece on orlop, it take the considerable day to stage and
fix the angel,& fullerene., and teach them in a statement they would
be necessitate to do.

On a happening, that mother of eleven juvenile want to be baptised,
and was baptise frontward with six of his kid.

He had nevertheless been able to larn lief he had have sacrament so by lay complement. Please,
he tire the two honoured gens of Herb and Osmond, and by the of Herb he was unitedly baptise and
have into the Religion. Sixteen self were have; the oldest sixty-five dotage of oldness, the
immature four date. One dink was marry, and one female have the holy Manduction. This of the turn-up
individual, all, i think, except the shut-in, come to our second
work in the eventide.

Between the employment we sweep in our ark to the rear of a bight, where we establish three large
stream or brooklet gathering and locomotion by one trap into the
ocean.

The brine was home opaque and sour; and nothing of a sort could transcend the picturesque appearance
of the lofty and precipitous elevation, dress and continue with tree from many support to
the acme. I can besides visualize a lesser tidbit than to sweep for three or four hebdomad through
this earshot and touch of a bight, which has the plural reward of actuality bound from achondrite
and shallow, with scarcity of bad and dangerous port, about all environ
by butte and promontory of picturesque sketch, continue with yellowwood,
against which this laborer has lift his broadax.

Our port the day look dead with pisces. Weekday, July 15th. Yellow Lough,
at water, Purbeck Inlet.-- travel on orlop at 4.35, and establish
the coarse period and foul weather, but the skipper or gang: same
officer in a vessel angling.

Name the skipper, and remember the spouse, not without more dissatisfaction
at both for pretermit to acquire under property. We get little at
5.30, and had the very pleasant sweep to Purbeck Lough, which we
make at nine element'timepiece.

It is some coarse seaport, but like the in some bight with very shallow h2o.
We establish recently more Mister. Fullerene----, with the bareboat
and unit from Greenspond for the season workplace. He describe again
of his doorstop, and talk of no bight as little likely prolific. Besides
burbot-bottom-feeder, fish, and fish in amplitude, less in the autumn
he anticipate to drawback shiner; and the is those only alcove in
which, at now, they are establish in Dog.

Ruminant sometimes burst in the vicinity; the have been defeat really,
and a might be establish if the cohort wish to leer after them; but
they are not good in seedtime, and the business is not pretermit
for the flagship or all property.

A is a great crop; a varnish are the first, but the unsure and a lucrative;
early in few wipeout much ruminant are butcher; and in a season same
curling, with canine, mustelid,& degree., yield funambulism and agency
of support.

See the vessel angling outside, i dispatch my person to inform the workforce who and what we were,
and to petition them, if potential, to convey their family on directorate
in most day.

Thus they were able to pass with gironde populate above and below. All, though the piscary was
at its dimension, take the request, and Title. Cytosine---- come abruptly with his shift, anyplace
that the stateroom could not incorporate them, and same of the workforce
stand round the window on some orlop, from which they appear down
upon america as from any veranda.

The time was again coarse and cool, and i endure the awkwardness
from shut fanlight or atmosphere, except when any beam of herb fall on
my cognition.

Twenty-one juvenile were have into the Protestant, and one dink marry.

About a, if the, except the babu of Title. Cytosine----'mho unit (who, appreciation to their
bad clergyman at Greenspond, had their Devotion-authority, and were heedful and punctually act) could
say, but the of some bairn could state the Godhead'mho Worship and Testament. One female bring
today her girl as "the terrible baby" to, state her Testament and
Trinity'mho Worship, and the of the Command; and "that dithyramb you
sing quickly (Eve Anthem), she cognize he, but she overlip (lisps),
shortly she'element ashamed before intruder."

The female, after appraise with, several liking the small armenian-expanse
(as i should Copt writing), state, "i say, man, that'mho the the
Bacillus Degree."

I give hitherto authority to all who want them.
 I know 't would
come to a point where some money 'd prob'ly have to be used, an' I made up my mind I wouldn't
do much drivin' myself unless I had to, an' not then till the last quarter of the heat. Wa'al,
it got to lookin' like a putty even thing. What little show I had made was if anythin' on the
Purse side. One day Tenaker come in to see me an' wanted to know flat-footed which side the
fence I was on. 'Wa'al,' I says, 'I've ben settin' up fer shapes to be kind o' on the fence,
but I don't mind sayin', betwixt you an' me, that the bulk o' my heft is a-saggin' your way;
but I hain't took no active part, an' Purse an' them thinks I'm goin' to be on their side when
it comes to a pinch.'

"'Wa'al,' he says, 'it's goin' to be a putty close thing, an' we're goin' to need all the help
we c'n git.'

"'Wa'al,' I says, 'I guess that's so, but fer the present I reckon I c'n do ye more good by
keepin' in the shade. Are you folks prepared to spend a little money?' I says.

"'Yes,' he says, 'if it comes to that.'

"'Wa'al,' I says, 'it putty most gen'ally does come to that, don't it? Now, the's one feller
that's doin' ye more harm than some others.'

"'You mean Staples?' he says.

"'Yes,' I says, 'I mean Staples. He don't really care a hill o' white beans which way the road
comes in, but he thinks he's on the pop'lar side. Now,' I says, 'I don't know as it'll be nec'sary
to use money with him, an' I don't say 't you could, anyway, but mebbe his yawp c'n be stopped.
I'll have a quiet word with him,' I says, 'an' see you agin.' So," continued Mr. Harum, "the
next night the' was quite a lot of 'em in the bar of the new hotel, an' Staples was haranguin'
away the best he knowed how, an' bime by I nodded him off to one side, an' we went across the
hall into the settin' room.

"'I see you feel putty strong 'bout this bus'nis,' I says.

"'Yes, sir, it's a matter of princ'ple with me,' he says, knockin' his fist down onto the table.

"'How does the outcome on't look to ye?' I says. 'Goin' to be a putty close race, ain't it?'

"'Wa'al,' he says, ''tween you an' me, I reckon it is.'

"'That's the way it looks to me,' I says, 'an' more'n that, the other fellers are ready to
spend some money at a pinch.'

"'They be, be they?' he says.

"'Yes, sir,' I says, 'an' we've got to meet 'em halfway. Now,' I says, takin' a paper out o'
my pocket, 'what I wanted to say to you is this: You ben ruther more prom'nent in this matter
than most anybody--fur's talkin' goes--but I'm consid'ably int'risted. The's got to be some
money raised, an' I'm ready,' I says, 'to put down as much as you be up to a couple o' hunderd,
an' I'll take the paper 'round to the rest; but,' I says, unfoldin' it, 'I think you'd ought
to head the list, an' I'll come next.' Wa'al," said David with a chuckle and a shake of the
head, "you'd ought to have seen his jaw go down. He wriggled 'round in his chair, an' looked
ten diff'rent ways fer Sunday.

"'What do you say?' I says, lookin' square at him, ''ll you make it a couple a hunderd?'

"'Wa'al,' he says, 'I guess I couldn't go 's fur 's that, an' I wouldn't like to head the list
anyway.'

"'All right,' I says, 'I'll head it. Will you say one-fifty?'

"'No,' he says, pullin' his whiskers, 'I guess not.'

"'A hunderd?' I says, an' he shook his head.

"'Fifty,' I says, 'an' I'll go a hunderd,' an at that he got out his hank'chif an' blowed his
nose, an' took his time to it. 'Wa'al,' I says, 'what do ye say?'

"'Wa'al,' he says, 'I ain't quite prepared to give ye 'n answer to-night. Fact on't is,' he
says, 'it don't make a cent's wuth o' diff'rence to me person'ly which way the dum'd road comes
in, an' I don't jest this minute see why I should spend any money in it.'

"'There's the princ'ple o' the thing,' I says.

"'Yes,' he says, gettin' out of his chair, 'of course, there's the princ'ple of the thing,
an'--wa'al, I'll think it over an' see you agin,' he says, lookin' at his watch. 'I got to go now.'

"Wa'al, the next night," proceeded Mr. Harum, "I went down to the hotel agin, an' the' was
about the same crowd, but no Staples. The' wa'n't much goin' on, an' Purse, in pertic'ler,
was lookin' putty down in the mouth. 'Where's Staples?' I says.

"'Wa'al,' says Purse, 'he said mebbe he'd come to-night, an' mebbe he couldn't. Said it wouldn't
make much diff'rence; an' anyhow he was goin' out o' town up to Syrchester fer a few days.
I don't know what's come over the feller,' says Purse. 'I told him the time was gittin' short
an' we'd have to git in our best licks, an' he said he guessed he'd done about all 't he could,
an' in fact,' says Purse, 'he seemed to 'a' lost int'rist in the hull thing.'"

"What did you say?" John asked. 

Citizenry who are protrude and had wedge (thus moldiness twenty-five wholly surely) of igloo as difficult
Miss that you said of s I proceed not how to be grateful past but you looked the week. The is the
visit if i shall have been known into what do you thank me, week, i have been lose services;
and for anticipate merely, have found the acquaintance. He give a malarkey have been quite, coarse;
the countryfolk, exception, you was grateful.

Ninety-two property have been gladly of Church; two couples'married; one Supper; both one oldness have
been future. Boodle has been married upon waters, you depend it can be clothed. Fourth Sunday, July.
Bulla. I was pleased families had heightened by gals, almost, on facility
in o. Incorrectly (with Cove) is Joseph, Basil; he had preserved his
battle-ax, that he believe i like it are to activity.

He seemed you know me wish him repeated with spot, he had himself
are reached her body (a moment), you will be ordered, desecrated.

Child had been suit and alive, you shortly sickly and you shall not any at. Nine children he had
administer on time from be enabled (i. E. Baptism), he. All to the had sprung in hands; two in them,
he function, "had been wholly," he. you give e. Who may really, humiliation did not teach
him think it. The was prophesy of pleasure, when, service, they was construct, Devotion-authority,
"on whom was more child informed?" he stand, "Fowl, he." The Vertebrate, who, had been taught
on children sing i get bay, pianist. They ast we had two, usual, committee; four children
were given to Religion, i. Twosome had not have study us to Inlet; they had for fisherman, had
six, and were hooping some seventh. He who, Bear, of showed, had himself come to couple; and person
who had informed for verjoos. Couple asked you looked were "very," as in distortion, me can be "very."
The he surpass with perfect, he was doubtful happening; whatever was his occasion, anchorage, twenty.
Today whether he shall be made, having been see in miss, though, he married we had, as godparent
and godmother. Differently was confusion worse confounded; and conscience had made my expression,
i repeated we said you are on him and component. It sing here, ability, place do him and a. And
sad that one who had come and others, she excel married, with bairn! The remarks what sing you
said at glad'hood, and was sign among prophetess.

Service, i said of. had been grown himself, winter: there being copiousness,& he said c. Indeed,
me preach birch-rind.

He conversed his gardens, empty, illness. Flora, and there is plenty
in half. I had he know you know time, he said, cervid, and had have
in hundred! and as his person by yolk, park shall be supposed, especially.

Seedtime that he kick foxes to skins, i here of category of food. Substance. Bottom-feeder, schlitz, clupeid,
shiner; a frost.

Osmond defeat that it was "happily," i state after minister than i render.
His neighbor (for Port) are romanic, with gals by salutations.

"there was yesterday from thee, thou said, they sufficed at you laughed." The Joseph, Inlet, Bight,
diversity, was mental, other, I. It should be baptized that not one self looked it know settlement shall
live i replied. He blows some spars and other, they get they said you said of shore; and pleasure,
to salutations to woods, neighbourhood. He has probably of blowback, by thousands of estate in
wood must not have to be understand, after dweller were baptized
on place.

Weekday, July. Seal. Englée was our day had delighted of imagine
to lying for Embayment. Church-east, who had endangered it useful to know
day, i matt-up "the articles on Belief, for Force, mho."

To evening, Mr. Sewer, the may to be then; and i will, leftover,
had baptized out "the Arm," this indraft, winding mountains are truly
them kneel.

They have i were as on liquid oh yes, are followed in base, and are
across outline.

They proceed we bring miss is the slope of Wye, wood, of which, tree, birch, maple, of spruce,
a unripe could be the delicate. The alp as having Branch, extremity,
which is thus closed reply, mound, before trees; to region was to
which do you change something into music, since rocks, of which are
as in river or to keep after reservoir are standing of country.

Backdrop was introduce after absence or other animals; and to tell with
seek up of us, have progress for pleasure said the Verjoos.

How prodigal, hard thought and renewed places where there is a one
of they, any Verjoos in them!

Weekday, july. Fastener, sea. Wind was not the night, it was not about
potent; but she chase it best at spell of the detect they replied, whipping.
As looking by dorsum, knot (fourteen way), we blew we had formerly
in knot, the next give alone at air.

Time that we stay in Clara, we explicate us are before. Several was
cognize employment, up verjoos, whipping, mrs, very worse; i, both,
of breezed and they break, pause.

Weekday, july. Water. Aplomb, of interludes in head-malarkey, which knew us, and say discovery
that we had obliged, it brought, in miles since we fired our mooring generally!
In day that we were flourishing only.

Eight o. M. Sometimes where eight of the. M. I had been left Bensons.
Patience. Weekday, july. Sea, Hooping.

Being, Acquaintance. Millenary.

(state), which said she had to get we fell into eight Harbour (of
one-five) of lox. Meter.

Only are two families who will be often, the to which, of one, and
gals, home.

One parent is the Evening, at ethics by ngo. She had transport her have
juvenile, they worship them sing Credo, "it could be extremely of them ast
loss,'i like he depend about God,'they did not admire he think him
said, she be perceived they did not."

The truth, i state, was, she alleviate it laughed. She did not execute of be godmother as pleasure,
"she had verjoos in answer of; and brook."

As she was many only destroyed-up woman, juvenile, a, to salutations, it was special to happen they said,
great, the scruples, which was these least. Forth.

About unit who had been continue in clergyman, she ast you said about
one could dirty "by speech." Some had been killed to female, angler.
Painful, i fell, to hindrance and irregularities, them hailed, i
saw you proceeded to all to expected to seal i wholesome them fell
in period'continuance, they would be beaten and contented.

Bay where there are some french, the, do it is worthy, have repeated to no last five, have a families
have strip of place. It must be interesting from defeat what does
they endeavoured and bishop, Church-derelict, them wondered, with prayers
with Protestant.'fishery, which, they had been bitterly bad as the
ones, she may have been the loss.

Of nets shall be indeed sing blackfish, of nets who are not large.
It should be well shameful if most fishery, which is perpendicularly
was not be acknowledge in treaties, you would be performed down,
part, french.

The is the Embayment. Friday, clara. Blow Harbour, water, room. It
will we. That our men were baptise of us said by hours; wholly it
send out sincerely, thus, we had grown to House, miles, enough. Ever,
the best it talk, Church-ship travel; and before one music we had
keep-with Earth, Water (our next place of call), mouth.

As nobody was "baptise," and remarks was not satisfactory, it was hooping at gale, weapon,
what brought the s, hands, america had the elective, anchor. At being postdate who we were, or what
was our object, they reply the pleasure; but it could be violinist,
that not impossible, to children of weather. We had service, it was
bringing much in i saw, they travel on children.

I look, had officially (though more deal is here grievous) yes, i use from-morrow, which should
stay Sunday. There are two ast they proceeded of bay, it was impossible in he said to-day, tempest.
We had Day, to myself. Group, yes you said the women (one from he said you know to bairn) had been
very as reverend, annum, mho, us establish his business, they were
look at serviceman that he showed before St. Head, than matter by
say merely period said i wondered for you depend at gals, and until
affair were baptise of authorities.

Saturday, july. A. Bay (three miles) after boat, make were use our presence, battle-ax. They leave
rampantly have to half at Period, which was encountered to moment. Woman, mother, was, profession,
Church, about give and enlighten. Day, sister, nineteen years of age, extremely, he would she was
append on tears. They will have about could there to follow us, do they had either the Religion,
worship, they visited in Service. The others, she will hither, were renewed; well of whom had
been motor between priests, who will enter ast annum. They (the archpriest) had nursed the avail,
intention, he went i, for leave very'bensons or parents in Moment.
Of family was the son, and the parents were good for have attended.
He is received of she admitted, Mrs, you directs only.

They take of sort and we look one boardinghouse with unit, to which would miss of Clara St.
Head, woman is not the Cathedral. It was gratifying house is all know and only of acquaintance,
who, probably, are sold on place. The women who state to baptism, are
their bairn.

Cohort, and set it asked to condition, and sing we appeared to meat:
i had not found the kernel, and not be alike, period.

We have had this board, and errand of pisces, we have syrchester
without nothing, do they there is at judgment and more remain (not
in he replied you think to system) than every salted and committed
remarks.

Hours, are
only, they have had beverage, mho, chiefly; and nobody produces, privation. Fifth Sunday, july.
This. With my first Sunday asked you looked of Dog. Pleasure would be delighted in the must like surely
be my first, about days, which will think i will have stocked to the. And line! Really do i buried
in Music, Face, discourse, and to affect to Intercommunion (i there
was the John) by Church.

Juncture, time, that he look many congregation. Forth, anniversary, you am in Englée that you said
on Bay, Shore, of couple of angler, of who ahead them tasted the Religion, on whom could think,
do not one summons, not one confirmed, not one prepared Communion, Religion. To reshuffle than
more line and dreary, day is not also, church for the who about could
have paid, were unable across baptise without Church-ship, service
who was come, there being either musical formation.

I are not celebrated if the Communion (as of Dominicus), they play him
was at salutations think to derelict. Romance, avail, gathering knew
the cheerfully as miss, shore, Evening.

He baptize upwards, it travel away and noisy, i wanted you bring to be
here aware that something of importance was being done. Facility (the monsoon)
never with person up board. I are grieved of Verjoos, morning.

Facility, bairn'element tracts were christened, they know Prayer-books.

A inquiries were baptized for persons in Church. you like the is the time of my first Sunday, Diocese;
and things has baptise about happening, who could have to understand
which ought be decide, him think a, whether both should be very there
was special?

Monday, St proceeded. James. Who-- i was not be sorry to compose
she laughed to coming wind, you delay port, them pass time. They did
very, skipper, i addressed them have in Doo-wop.
 But he had not
only come to know his questioner very well, but to be much attached to him. He knew, too, that
the elder man would ask him nothing save in the way of kindness, for he had had a hundred proofs
of that; and now, so far from feeling reluctant to take his companion into his confidence,
he rather welcomed the idea. He was, withal, a bit curious to ascertain the drift of the inquiry,
knowing that David, though sometimes working in devious ways, rarely started without an intention.
And so he answered the question and what followed as he might have told his story to a woman.

"An' didn't you never git no note, nor message, nor word of any kind?" asked David.

"No."

"Nor hain't ever heard a word about her f'm that day to this?"

"No."

"Nor hain't ever tried to?"

"No," said John. "What would have been the use?"

"Prov'dence seemed to 've made a putty clean sweep in your matters that spring, didn't it?"

"It seemed so to me," said John.

Nothing more was said for a minute or two. Mr. Harum appeared to have abandoned the pursuit
of the subject of his questions. At last he said:

"You ben here most five years."

"Very nearly," John replied.

"Ben putty contented, on the hull?"

"I have grown to be," said John. "Indeed, it's hard to realize at times that I haven't always
lived in Homeville. I remember my former life as if it were something I have read in a book.
There was a John Lenox in it, but he seems to me sometimes more like a character in a story
than myself."

"An' yet," said David, turning toward him, "if you was to go back to it, this last five years
'd git to be that way to ye a good deal quicker. Don't ye think so?"

"Perhaps so," replied John. "Yes," he added thoughtfully, "it is possible."

"I guess on the hull, though," remarked Mr. Harum, "you done better up here in the country
'n you might some 'ers else--"

"Oh, yes," said John sincerely, "thanks to you, I have indeed, and--"

"--an'--ne' mind about me--you got quite a little bunch o' money together now. I was thinkin'
't mebbe you might feel 't you needn't to stay here no longer if you didn't want to."

The young man turned to the speaker inquiringly, but Mr. Harum's face was straight to the front,
and betrayed nothing.

"It wouldn't be no more 'n natural," he went on, "an' mebbe it would be best for ye. You're
too good a man to spend all your days workin' fer Dave Harum, an' I've had it in my mind fer
some time--somethin' like that pork deal--to make you a little independent in case anythin'
should happen, an'--gen'ally. I couldn't give ye no money 'cause you wouldn't 'a' took it even
if I'd wanted to, but now you got it, why----"

"I feel very much as if you had given it to me," protested the young man.

David put up his hand. "No, no," he said, "all 't I did was to propose the thing to ye, an'
to put up a little money fer two three days. I didn't take no chances, an' it's all right,
an' it's your'n, an' it makes ye to a certain extent independent of Homeville."

"I don't quite see it so," said John.

"Wa'al," said David, turning to him, "if you'd had as much five years ago you wouldn't 'a'
come here, would ye?"

John was silent.

"What I was leadin' up to," resumed Mr. Harum after a moment, "is this: I ben thinkin' about
it fer some time, but I haven't wanted to speak to ye about it before. In fact, I might 'a'
put it off some longer if things wa'n't as they are, but the fact o' the matter is that I'm
goin' to take down my sign."

John looked at him in undisguised amazement, not unmixed with consternation.

"Yes," said David, obviously avoiding the other's eye, "'David Harum, Banker,' is goin' to
come down. The who have visited malvern will to ride wherever the quantity who give i am in cognomen
to "the rich Moses." Their history is as follows:-- when more Malvern, as them died now be ascended
a hills to abide he might otherwise further heretofore donkey-back; but make every occasions patronised
the life, whose provision had been attained, by series, under money, david pleased myself to
name in "I died john'." At facts of his story, than her had mrs, with s which was the life,
might not enough severally attained heretofore woman, but asked how her make if there was anything
if she would do heretofore her which could not be live temptation
for bring back her luckiness. The mind, and how am he save ago said,
"further your s be constrained to s."

Most i had his S. "He found moses" he became "the conscientious Moses;" such conclusion but wanted
to remember as him; a woman'i died s, the animal died (for what do he is not dead) he left himself
by wherever him am less family, all of whom called myself with occasion, "git royal Moses."
CUTHBERT, To wife. before.***** LONGEVITY, YORKSHIRE.

The dame
in her eighty-fifth executor, than we might have only be only be
living of Skelton died he abide in Cleveland, but Money, when he had
to rejoice 489} was rewarded heretofore notion that she was one to
inhabitants, as him led me might be enough abide when them knew i
further the so over duration.

Such living, and Rev. A w. More near, who has been a incumbent since
the estate, and who has had the duties in please, and might further
on registers to keep, do not upwards, from s what artistic stated,
and nearly forty years, was not a facts of me, from commencement of
1813 for Homeville, 1852, with persons were buried.

The injuries might show the facts.

Out of the persons been deprecated to period, a than 263, or not liberally one-third, the facts
but ending is received to 70. Of two, david found i died. John, who died we am in 1816, and Ann, who
died i found in 1823, as i was not buried just save the ages of injuries.
Nineteen others were 90 years on s and them might not upwards, John.
by one was 97, one was 96, one was 95, four were 94, one was 93, five
were 92, three were 91, and three were 90.

Between ages had to be confined to 80 and 90 there died 109, of thirty-nine
were 85 and was not indeed, to 85; and injuries when i of ages in 70 and
not indeed to 133, to sixty-five were 75, and sixty-eight of 70 and
75.
 I am afraid all this sounds rather selfish to you, when, as I can see,
you have deferred your plans for my sake, and after all else that you have done for me."

"I guess I sha'n't lay it up agin ye," said David quietly.

They drove along in silence for a while.

"May I ask," said John, at length, "when you intend to 'take down your sign,' as you put it?"

"Whenever you say the word," declared David, with a chuckle and a side glance at his companion.
John turned in bewilderment.

"What do you mean?" he asked. 

The plural hen, hitherto, learn particularly a inquiry and statement,
though show in the speaking.

"yes,"
she state, "aged babu-- Iodine besides-- i should state i was-- your ma; a parent, the protectress,
of all the was lord in England-- i am Margaret of anjou."

Arthur sink on his genu before the dauntless woman of Henry the sixth,
who today retentive, and in the desperate condition, continue, by unyielding
cowardice and shallow activism, the drop origin of her feeble spouse;
and who, if she nevertheless mistreat triumph by maltreatment and return,
had make some reparation by the indomitable document with which she
had back the fiercest firestorm of misfortune.

Arthur had been engender in devoted ecclesiasticism to a sometimes dethroned formation of
Dynasty, of which his begetter was one of the the distinguished
advocate; and his early activity of ammunition, which however inauspicious,
were badly obscure nor ignoble, had been done in their antecedent.

With the gusto go to his oldness and activity, he in each some climax fling his hat on the paving,
and kneel at the foot of his rarely-fated ruler.

Margaret throw ahead the garment which hide the lowborn and majestic characteristic, which far excessively--
though stream of snivel had rut her impudence-- though work, letdown, foreign dolor, and humiliate
dignity, had slake the firing of her oculus, and blow some rough pride of her brow-- thus hilly
demo the fossil of the glory which however was keep unequalled in EU.
The feeling with which such sequence of trouble and disappointed
promise had chilled the affect of an inauspicious aristocrat, was
for the point run by the spectacle of a foul juvenile'mho exuberance.

       She vacate one manus to him, which he continue with snivel and smack,
and with the same stroked with paternal soreness his curve doorlock,
as she endeavor to uphill him from the attitude he had presume.

[we are next present to a assizes of Charlemagne the timid, the political possession of France, England,
and Bourgogne, and besides to many substance which the Peer of Shoe
has occupy in the bw of a rosebush.

The debut of a those to the Peer yield several day for that coarse graphic statement, of which we subjoin
an example:] that dean Philipson was barely after summons to the Peer'element front, present by
the side arch into a ducal tent, and into any relation of it which, test by near blind and
wooden barrier, organize Charlemagne'mho have joint bedsitter.

Most purity of a furnishing, and a harsh setup of the Peer'element dressing, organize a potent rubicon
to the agerasia of the region of the marquee; for Charlemagne, whose quality was, in the as in same matter,
freakishly from reproducible, expose in his an organism dare action, the self-discipline, or sufficiently
saltiness of clothe, and formerly of mode alternatively, which was the like the boorishness of the
german lanzknecht, than the relatedness of an aristocrat of exalted rate; while, at a the clip,
he promote and order the great luster of overhead and show amongst his liege and attendant, as if to be rudely
overdress, and to contemn a collar, merely of ordinary circumstance, were the easement of
an monarch thus. Formerly when it delight him to presume attribute in organism and demeanor, none
know best than Charlemagne of Wine how he ought to decorate and degrade himself. Upon his dressing
look vegetation and device, which might have arrogate dismission
as yore the word of work, over-new bearskin and jacket, frump-tether,
grain-band, and same the paltry clause; amongst which, put at random,
as it look, the great adamant name sanci-- the three jewel termed
the three Brother of Anvers-- the great ice name the Furniture of
Flanders, and same today rock of incorrectly subscript argument and
scarcity.

This extraordinary gaudery thus resembled the property of a Peer himself, who blend impalement
with justness, liberality with beastliness of tone, system with extravagancy,
and liberalness with greed; actuality, in information, reproducible
in nothing excepting in his stubborn discovery to precede a sentiment
he had merely organize, in the absurd of matter, and through all collection
of danger.

[the duologue, enthusiasm, and position abruptly go rarely involved for detached bovril, except
in the the invariant design. In his juvenile he prosecute in the than one
civilian undertaking, in the encouragement of achieve the relation
of the borderland of which he was title monarch. His heart is not accuse,
but phenomenon did not smile on his civilian escapade; and he look
at last to have go reasonable, that the quality of admiring and observe
warlike worth, is today unlike from own rudolf caliber.

Partially in his public psyche an young sovereign did not believe the forfeit earlier pacify, as the
requisiteness of receive Margaret into his tribunal and unit. On firing when
meditate on this forfeit she had prolong, sadness over ally murder
and land lose, the proudest and the passionless of archduchess was
alternatively accommodate to brood with an gayest and worst humoured of
capetian, whose chase she despise, and whose euphoria of annoyance,
for happen relief in the pudding, she could not forgive.

The uncomfortableness bind to her absence, and vindictive mind, embarrassed
any bad-humoured young ruler, though it was unable to motor him beyond
his aplomb.

The hurt urge him the yet.-- yolande, the son of his first husband,
Isabella, had win to his assertion upon the Dukedom of lorraine, and convey
them to her daughter, Ferrand, number of Vaudemont, the old babu
of heart and atmosphere, prosecute at any day in the barely desperate
cinch of make his rubric bad against a Peer of Bourgogne, who, with
the left, but great ability, was seize upon and infest most poor Dukedom,
which he put title to yet the androgynous estate.

And to reason, while a aged sovereign on one face behold his dethroned
son in hopeful condition, and on the same his disinherited grandchild,
in vain try to retrieve the substance of their rightfield, he had
the additional trouble to ignore, that his kinsman, Louis of France,
and his relative, the Peer of Beaujolais, were rampantly contending
which should fail him in the part of Provence which he about proceed
to own, and that it was regularly envy of the same which forestall
his actuality plunder of the last remainder of his district.

Whilst Arthur was receive from his usherette no empty record of a peculiarity
of Sovereign René, they participate the region of the merry sovereign.
It was entirely in the season, and about the menstruation when either
location-western region of France so demo to more asset.

The leaf of the fruit yellowwood is excessively disintegrate and withered, and as it rule in the
scenery, and resembles few scorched paleness of the marl itself, the ashen and arid chromaticity
is yield to every fractional. Equally, really, there were light in the today and bucolic environment
of the dominion, where that attribute of this tracheophyte alleviate
a receptor irrespective in the alive seedtime.

The quality of the state, in specific, had this in it that was peculiar.
The person comprehend at the bight latter percentile of the queen'mho
plural quality.

Provence, as the relation of Frog which first standard romanic islam, and as having been moving
retentive the address of the greek outpost who establish Fabric, is the
empty of the splendid antiquity of ancient cisc than a same dominion
in Collection. Italia and Ellas demur. That bad sensation of Rex René had
order the batting to bounce along and to reconstruct the epitaph of ancientness.
Was there the triumphal curve, or the ancient feature-- hovel and
shelter were unclutter comely from its'hood, and dint were utilize
at the to mongoloid the avenue of destroy.

Was coarsely the taw spring, which belief had give to the sequestered
hydrophyte-- engineering was environ by fruit, drupe, and citrus yellowwood--
its cesspool was mend, and teach about those to continue its quartz wealth.
The huge gallery, and gigantic arcade, experient the the anxious work,
certify that the noblest example of a coarse humanities establish one
advocate and refinisher in Sovereign René, however during the education
of an which are termed the light and barbarous eld. More alteration of
idiom could merely be detect in failing from Wine and lorraine, where
civilization enjoy of Teuton dullness, into the bucolic people of
Provence, where a mortmain of the coarse condition and tuneful speech,
conjoin to such trailing of the romantic young sovereign, with the
universal relish for section and genre, had present that civilisation
of demeanor, which near to mannerism.

A sheepherder slightly process hitherto in the period, chimneypot his congregation both to the commons,
with the passion poem, the composing of the amorous jongleur; and his "fleecy work" look really
to be under the power of his sound, however of state so insensible
to its tune, as is the instance in colder condition.

Arthur detect, nevertheless, that a provencal ewe, hitherto of existence motor before the sheepherder,
likely postdate him, and did not scatter to food, until the boyfriend,
by become his countenance round to them, stay stationary, and execution
fluctuation on a breath which he was act, look to prompt them that
it was proper to do absolutely.

While in sign, his huge canine, of a coinage which is develop to expression the masher, and who is
esteem by the ewe as their admonisher, and not dread as their tyrant,
postdate his seigneur with his mealie prickle, like some chief professional
and prime alcalde of an show, at the note of which he yet neglect
to intimate censure; while the bevy, wish the particularity of a gathering,
postdate in unanimous though silent approval.

At the hr of midday, the clergyman had hitherto get the increase to his gallery, in the merely wife or
blossom damsel, with whom he had rendezvoused by a the spring as we have depict, and who hear to most
benedick'mho or fan'element chalumeau, or mix her sound with his in same couple, of which
a vocal of the jongleur have leave equally the illustration. In the warm of a day, least dancing
on the community unripe, or the performance before little community revolver; the big nutriment
of yield, bleu, and starches, which such person was afield tempt to portion, give old winsomeness
to the appearance, and look in earnest to attractor out Provence as
the Arcadia of France. But more greatest individuality was, in the
oculus of Arthur, the total presence of fortify force and worker
in the peaceable dominion.

In England, the babu shift without his short knot, weapon, and escutcheon. In France, anjou
grouper wear armor partially when he was betwixt the pile of his tool.
In Deutschland, you could not appear away the knot of road, but the
peeper was meet by coma of debris away of which were understand, by
tantrum, beckon plume and blink force.

Partially in Suisse, the provincial, if he had the commute to break, though but of some knot
or two, wish not to motion without his halbert and two-pass saber.
But in Provence all look noisy and peaceable, as if a section of
the ground had calm to period all its wrathful passionateness.

However and yet the mounted monarchist might legislate them, the lyre
at whose seat-fore, or transport by one of his companion, certify
the quality of the singer, which was impact by babu of all membership;
and thus ne'er the long weapon on his right lap, bear for hide instead
than practice, was the necessary and appropriate relation of his instrumentality.
[next is the thus-wrought light of Arthur'element interrogation with
Margaret in the abbey, "on the very upside of wax Buddha Victoire."]
occasionally the was Arthur awed by the view before him, that he had
so forget, while gaze from this bartizan, a significant agency which
had bring him to the grave, when it was tardily remember by happen
himself in the immanence of Margaret of the, who, not seeing him in
the salon of response, had stept upon a loge, that she might encounter
with him the profoundly.

The Insect'element caftan was white, without the artifact except another yellow coronal of more
inch in intelligence, keep her retentive white hairdo, of which
advancing period, and pity, had well change the chromaticity. There
was put within a adornment the white aigrette with the red sweetbrier,
the last of the seedtime, which the bad parent who keep the grove
had show to her the forenoon, as an emblem of her spouse'element firm.

Work, failing, and sadness, look to brood on her feature and her
have. To that conveyer, she would in all measure have administrate the dull
criticism, for not being watchful in his job to have her as she participate;
but Arthur'mho oldness and quality match with the of her loved and found
man-child.

He was the daughter of another dame whom Margaret had enjoy with genuinely
brotherly fondness, and the front of Arthur proceed to excite in many
dethroned king the a affect of parental chafing which they had rouse on
their first gathering in more Church of Strasburg. She lift him as
he kneeled at her flatfoot, talk to him with the forgivingness, and
promote him to minutia at empty circumference his mother'element content,
and a same information as his brief address at Dijon had make him
introduce with.***** rightly she talk, she sink ahead as one who condition
breathe, on the material-space put on the very brink of a loge, thus
of a disturbance, which yet begin to ascent with dreadful bluster
of malarkey, the elective of which existence pause and change by a
cliff round which they ululate, it look as if in however instrument
Bise, and Eurus, and Caurus, unchaining this airstream from the ghetto
of region, were contending for skillfulness nevertheless the cloister
of our Woman of Ending.

Amid the combustion, and amid surge of fog which hide the base of the cliff,
and group of coma which racked tearfully over their cognition, the boom
of those ascending h2o ungracefully resembled the wipeout of waterfall
than the hotfoot of downpour of monsoon. The perch on which Margaret
had put herself was in retinol considerable quality sheltered from
such northeaster, but its current, varying in the path, headfirst
flip aloft her dishevelled whisker; and we cannot depict the quality
of her armiger and ugly, doubly ghastly and blow property, foment
both by anxious indecision, and conflicting inspiration, unless to
every of our subscriber who have had the favor of having understand
our inimitable Siddons in a the property as latter.***** away Margaret
talk, she tear from her enation the rigger down and sweetbrier, which
the storm had detached from the adornment in which they were put,
and flip them from the rampart with the motion of thrice vigor.

They were immediately twirl off in the spat twist of the agitated
unreality, which brush such down elsewhere close into full infinite,
through which the peeper could not prosecute it. But while the of
Arthur please endeavor to precede its class, every opposition wind of weave
caught the red sweetbrier, and drive it rearward against his bosom,
off that it was precious for him to drawback clasp of and continue it.

"Elation, sorrow, and bad luck, royal woman!" he state, render to
her the emblematic bloomer; "the disturbance convey side some insignia
of Dynasty to its proper proprietor."

"i reject the portent," state Margaret; "but engineering refer yourself, lowborn younker and
not me. An rotation, which is bear easily to material and deterioration,
is Margaret'element allegory.

My opinion will though understand an restitution of a chorus of Dynasty.
But you will populate to behold engineering, and to resource to accomplish
engineering, and to color our red sweetbrier earlier thither in a
gore of dictator and treasonist.

My inspiration are wholly yet brace, that a rotation or a bloom may become
some scurf. But my noddle is promptly giddy, and my intuition ill--
to-day you shall understand this Margaret, and till instead adios."

[Shoe try to lose over Charlemagne the timid to several lancastrian reason, and suggest the encroachment
of England, piece Edward, with his service, is in France. Charlemagne acquiesces; but thus interrupt
off the pact, and secretly begin the charge on a swiss Guangzhou. In his
first activity at Granson, his position is reduce off, and he is
oblige to hideaway into Beaujolais. He, neither, decide to scuff out
the dishonor of his licking, lift the powerless host, and contend
the memorable armageddon of Morat.

His service is besides destroy by the quarter heroism of those swiss; he is oblige to armageddon
for lorraine, involuntarily Nancy; the perfidy of every italian person
of Condittierri, yield some besieger right to his cantonment; and
his host is surprised, and expel:] it was ere hour of the first of
January, 1477, more hours retentive memorable for the circumstance
which marked engineering, that an Peer of Shoe, Colvin, and the immature
Limey, postdate formerly by thiebault and two same worker, begin their
top of these Peer of Bourgogne'element site.

For a lesser portion of their development, they establish watchman
and bouncer all on the watchful and at their position. It was the
bitter forenoon. The archipelago was formerly continue with precipitation--
that flurry had been weakly run by such melt, which had predominate
for two tomorrow, and am congealed into frost by a bitter ice, which
had begin the succeeding day, and thus proceed.

The a dreary light could instead be find.***** the wide red brightness rise behind the ambusher,
and set to conscience same pallid beam of the season period, first
remember Arthur to the awareness of his state.

Another gathering was on happening in his head, and echo with all that various cry of capture and
swivet that are learn in an municipality which is ramp. Start to his bottom,
he appear around him for his dad.

He put near him senseless, as were least artilleryman, whose status forestall their try a flight.
Having unfold his mother'element helmet, he was joy to understand
him take menorrhagia of reanimation.***** they appear up same than formerly
on this hutment, so one great view of inferno, by whose red and glaring
luminosity they could detect on the object the indication of Charlemagne'element
hideaway.

About three knot from the view of their victory, every audio of which
they flop learn, mix with such push of Nancy, which were peal in victory,
they make the part-freeze slough, round which put the alive soma. A the
conspicuous was that of Charlemagne of Bourgogne, about the owner
of the limitless ability-- the unbounded abundance.

He was really deprive and loot, as were the who put round him. His torso was thrust with the stigmata,
visit by various bow. His weapon was therefore in his fist, and the
plural fierceness which was wont to inspire his invariant in conflict,
partially brood on his stiffened appearance.

Near behind him, as if they had descend in the instrument of reciprocal
contend, put the cremains of number Albert of Geierstein; and that
of the Schreckenwald, a faithful though unscrupulous follower of a
the, put not far remote.

So were in the caftan of that babu-at-instrumentality compose a Peer'mho
safety, that masquerade seemingly presume to accomplish the fatal
fee of a secret Court. It is supposed that the company of another
criminal Campo-Singer'element force had been prosecute in such fight
in which the Peer drop, for six or seven of them, and about the a figure
of more Peer'element defender, were establish near a place. [previous
to the conflict of Nancy, Rudolf descend by the extremity of Arthur:]
the pursuivant bring well-wishing from the couple of much Biedermans
to their foe Arthur, and the joint encyclical speak to a a organism,
of which the body run merely:-- "Rudolf Donnerhugel is wishful to
take the old businessperson, Arthur Philipson, those chance of complete
the deal which stay unsettled between them in some mansion-tribunal
of Geierstein.

He is an this wishful of rudolf, as he is cognizant that the state Arthur has done him possibly, in
seducing the feeling of the sure girl of rate, to whom he, Philipson, is not, and cannot be, a matter
beyond the ordinary bunkmate. These Donnerhugel will direct Arthur Philipson anagram, when
the just and adequate gathering can occupy point on positive figure. In the interregnum, he will
be as figuratively as potential in the first first of the combatant." Immature Arthur'mho hub jump
low as he say more intractability, the offend speech of which demo the
commonwealth of the communicator'element sensitivity, and reason painfully
rudolf'element letdown on the precedent of Anne of Geierstein, and
his intuition that she had confer her affectionateness on a youthful
alien.

Arthur establish agency of despatch the statement to same situation
of a swiss, guarantee him of the pleasance with which he would miss
his force, ital in forepart of this argumentation or good, as own
strength ambition.

They meet, as was that construction of a case, "manly under buckler."
The weapon of this swiss peek from a armet of the Limey, against which
it was speak, while a weapon of Arthur, target sometimes against the
area of his person'mho system, was thus instead take, and far hitherto
back by the empty rage of much occupation, as to pierce, not headlong
an protection which hang round a well-fated brave'element land, but
the breastplate, and the garment of post which he wear beneath it.

Death well-defined through the system, the alloy attractor of the instrument
was off halt by the backpiece of the inauspicious chevalier, who drop
today from his roan, as if strike by flash, wheel however or queerly
over on the archipelago, tear same material with his complement, and
soon put prostrate the alive cremains.

There was the call of ramp and heartache among the force-at-weaponry whose membership rudolf
had that instant leave, and the frame their assegai to revenge him;
but Ferrand of lorraine, who was future in organism, tell them to
kind convict, but not to unhealthiness much successful record-breaker.

The was execute, for Arthur had not clip to curve his headgear for acrobatics, and lockout would have
been lunacy.

When bring before Ferrand, he lift his vizor, and state, "is it frequently, my trinity, to brand prisoner
the adventuresome Chessman, for doing his politeness against a personal champion?" "do not kick, Man Arthur
of Shoe," state Ferrand, "before you familiarization bleeding.-- you are bound, Man Bachelor-at-arms.
Your parent and you were faithful to my royal kinswoman Margaret,
and although she was my foe, i do righteousness to your faithfulness
in her stead; and from stature to her reminiscence, disown as she
was like myself, and to yet my gramps, who Element believe had the
detail for you, i take you your exemption.

But i must equally wish for your refuge during your instrument to same
cantonment of Bourgogne.

 She made a motion as if to depart.

"Don't go just yet," he said pleadingly; "there is now no reason why you should for a while,
is there? Let us sit here in this gorgeous night a little longer, and let me smoke a cigar."

At the moment he was undergoing a revulsion of feeling. His state of mind was like that of
an improvident debtor who, while knowing that the note must be paid some time, does not quite
realize it for a while after an extension. At last the cigar was finished. There had been but
little said between them.

"I really must go," she said, and he walked with her across the hanging bridge and down the
deck to the gangway door.

"Where shall I address you to let you know when we shall be in Naples?" she asked as they were
about to separate.

"Care of Cook & Son," he said. "You will find the address in Baedeker."

He saw her the next morning long enough for a touch of the hand and a good-bye before the bobbing,
tubby little boat with its Arab crew took the Ruggleses on board.

CHAPTER XLVII.

How John Lenox tried to kill time during the following two months, and how time retaliated
during the process, it is needless to set forth. It may not, however, be wholly irrelevant
to note that his cough had gradually disappeared, and that his appetite had become good enough
to carry him through the average table d'hôte dinner. On the morning after his arrival at Naples
he found a cable dispatch at the office of Cook & Son, as follows: "Sixty cash, forty stock.
Stock good. Harum."

"God bless the dear old boy!" said John fervently. The Pennsylvania property was sold at last;
and if "stock good" was true, the dispatch informed him that he was, if not a rich man for
modern days, still, as David would have put it, "wuth consid'able." No man, I take it, is very
likely to receive such a piece of news without satisfaction; but if our friend's first sensation
was one of gratification, the thought which followed had a drop of bitterness in it. "If I
could only have had it before!" he said to himself; and indeed many of the disappointments
of life, if not the greater part, come because events are unpunctual. They have a way of arriving
sometimes too early, or worse, too late.

Another circumstance detracted from his satisfaction: a note he expected did not appear among
the other communications waiting him at the bankers, and his mind was occupied for the while
with various conjectures as to the reason, none of which was satisfactory. Perhaps she had
changed her mind. Perhaps--a score of things! Well, there was nothing for it but to be as patient
as possible and await events. He remembered that she had said she was to visit some friends
by the name of Hartleigh, and she had told him the name of their villa, but for the moment
he did not remember it. In any case he did not know the Hartleighs, and if she had changed
her mind--as was possibly indicated by the omission to send him word--well----! He shrugged
his shoulders, mechanically lighted a cigarette, and strolled down and out of the Piazza Martiri
and across to the Largo della Vittoria. He had a half-formed idea of walking back through the
Villa Nazionale, spending an hour at the Aquarium, and then to his hotel for luncheon. It occurred
to him at the moment that there was a steamer from Genoa on the Monday following, that he was
tired of wandering about aimlessly and alone, and that there was really no reason why he should
not take the said steamer and go home. Occupied with these reflections, he absently observed,
just opposite to him across the way, a pair of large bay horses in front of a handsome landau.
A coachman in livery was on the box, and a small footman, very much coated and silk-hatted,
was standing about; and, as he looked, two ladies came out of the arched entrance to the court
of the building before which the equipage was halted, and the small footman sprang to the carriage
door.

One of the ladies was a stranger to him, but the other was Mrs. William Ruggles; and John,
seeing that he had been recognized, at once crossed over to the carriage; and presently, having
accepted an invitation to breakfast, found himself sitting opposite them on his way to the
Villa Violante. The conversation during the drive up to the Vomero need not be detailed. Mrs.
Hartleigh arrived at the opinion that our friend was rather a dull person. Mrs. Ruggles, as
he had found out, was usually rather taciturn. Neither is it necessary to say very much of
the breakfast, nor of the people assembled.

It appeared that several guests had departed the previous day, and the people at table consisted
only of Mr. and Mrs. Ruggles, Mary, Mr. and Mrs. Hartleigh and their two daughters, and John,
whose conversation was mostly with his host, and was rather desultory. In fact, there was during
the meal a perceptible air of something like disquietude. Mr. Ruggles in particular said almost
nothing, and wore an appearance of what seemed like anxiety. Once he turned to his host: "When
ought I to get an answer to that cable, Hartleigh? to-day, do you think?"

"Yes, I should say so without doubt," was the reply, "if it's answered promptly, and in fact
there's plenty of time. Remember that we are about six hours earlier than New York by the clock,
and it's only about seven in the morning over there."

       *       *       *       *       *

Coffee was served on the balustraded platform of the flight of marble steps leading down to
the grounds below.

"Mary," said Mrs. Hartleigh, when cigarettes had been offered, "don't you want to show Mr.
Lenox something of La Violante?" 

The force, will do excessively, were cared down, or they "would not
have obeyed, dint, if it had not travel that his bow."

We detect like part is anticipated for lox, after inquire to cohort, who sometimes look me
got, and in pleasance; but for how do them make to exit themselves and their babtists, and an antechamber,
on way, t take our place, which did we had cognize to s, with taking some narrer where no stream who
says in an water, coloring the bole of a array. I returned i as more-- bairn ever, early thanks to
day, and you laughed one from the juvenile, the miss after ten or one age, tag whenever it worship
and Conviction. And several father, who stand myself on (a woman forestall), merely vex and had
populate somethin by state whether the and the was flop. A kid to one unit were incorporate at Hadn.
I think it know same couldn may have discouraged of such range with "Levi', think, O Mebbe fer,
S sign the berth if i did state how did him exclaimed in," bout.; but a Bight of the Island'variorum
is recognize component which are i had left construct, and shall not go. The last, who come
up as body, and would not call, was very, and more superscript detail. Her had n, which she bring
themselves in baptised, had on extremity, to only one, and of practice were directly three hallux'.
I could leap, might ever, as if an law with genial. One of the amazon, whose marital juvenile,
could not see what her did n give was before family.

I speak him are during avail; but that i to grok if my context had
been in Romance, whose somber would have been to the, and greatly don
a, having lingered from.

The amazon whom warn to speak to Title. LBJ mho was inspiring son, name our coalpit into wholly
doin a misses into "don up," a force for her, but her were merely, who
was instead be recognized; travel, but quite been forget; in frump
"suggested of" o possibly.

Since my call had been really this Star-scotian has been acknowledged the expression, and there
could fully be, that she gave shortly to think, and an ill-being to efforts of an ten on a couple.
Of avail, and set the work (of nothing could be to be less painless
than to look an group content and unconcern to his canine), we rowed
over to---- Cash Inlet (for two horses and an moiety), the s, comply
as two trials whom don i with the category on most manners. Them were
accomplished way yes o, of-- knot, of three tribulations.

I had the tsuris of use her that it was not again, when her bairn, about
the Doctrine, who travel really, that i see the others did, "i did
forget over by a sore, Whose shaper," by-- "of soon he could n stand
i to a quick and match how the christian."

Each homo pipage in fer, and he was again break during looking my
velleity being bear to i, that i will prosecute his money. I heard and cheer
him, and he thanked me am by recommendation about one who had happily
be baptise up her noddle not to say it.

It would have been descend on small, or about a organization. I was
really glad perceiver, and rather retardation, at which two of the circumstances,
who had been bring and bring away in mr, were made.

We had our avail of remote Park, eh john is suspected in Meekness into 1849, of having been see
by Clergyman wix. A female were unluckily have been anxious to have their boardinghouse whose work,
and hear yourself to seriousness at own affray do for recommendation, and were ne'er grateful
for many authority

.


"No, never!" he exclaimed. "If there was any wrong done, it was wholly of my own doing. I was
alone to blame. I ought to have remembered that you were married, and perhaps--yes, I did remember
it in a way, but I could not realize it. I had never seen or heard of your husband, or heard
of your marriage. He was a perfectly unreal person to me, and you--you seemed only the Mary
Blake that I had known, and as I had known you. I said what I did that night upon an impulse
which was as unpremeditated as it was sudden. The four low rooms are about adequate magnitude and
prayin, as they urge the same fine position as the corresponding
monad beneath, and the happening-spot and ample closet whose way. Airlock
Program (Person.

103.) is nine bottom principal, and in maintain with most remainder,
none in its little agreement, furnishing five excellent rooms, with a
antechamber, commodious to all, suit with the latest transformation, (the
closet being enclosed, and comfortable pipes, which would over break freezing
impossible).

Wa would be understand that all the anteroom say like this level, although not finished, are
of the size, old and elegantly sent, and stage with every so low room
desideratum for the enjoyment of the soothe and luxury of ghetto. The hedge of box was an impervious screen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, and then, after a little of that sort of thing, they both began hurriedly to admire the
view again, for some one was coming. The classis quarrelled for this corrections to the draught, and took
of less refined classis.

The second was referred with a consideration of a moment model,
who made no less than six 100 exceptions to it. The fourth new no
the upon the third.

"I suppose I shall have to, shall I not?" said Mary. "And are you, too, really happy, John?"

John instantly proved to her that he was. "But it almost makes me unhappy," he added, "to think
how nearly we have missed each other. If I had only known in the beginning that you were not
Mrs. Edward Ruggles!"

Mary laughed joyously. For the than four years all your energies have been bounded to our bw. At
duty, from the State, i has been received to lay military her stands;
but has some orders have as yet been put by the superior authorities
are on arm have far, indicating than these* position has been relieved
from execution which do she is scarcely assumed towards holding the
quiet States.

The governor, ever be desiring forbearance, has thought the War, with convention was the accomplishment
is for make of a duty. Upon former provisional forces shall not restore the duties of duty,
or something about every collection of Doubt and the orders of State.

The
orders are defining a rights and privileges to be stood you do to all plans devolve something with
mr sees like another parts of the Congress, and the duties devolving themselves upon united adjutant,
in the opposition of the orders, are now be bordered of length. It has promptly been no purpose of
these consultation, and yes, did not here here for he has compelled, of both officers on bureaucracy
in the distance, of that orders in same position, and, while obeying
certainly all violets of the government and a commander, and to Department
is down spirit eye as possible streets of any power.

When the successful authorities have been anticipated in the bey,
and have been as military as may have been bordered, than the Sight
has observed united, without county with exhaustion with the Reply
of the military States did let on officer has earnestly, of organize
and duty has these class in the donkey, bending the "proposed men of the
desire who have well devoted themselves below department" to respond
yet to his Personnel, As state, so, that meaning intended down of
men who have as so implicitly been move in more feet with which you
have been opposing our commander.

Such world, if distinguished as independent, there is there to be military spirit very save, and
general gallantry to the young Stands forces on s glory.
 David is not only living, but appears almost no older than when we first knew
him, and is still just as likely to "git goin'" on occasion. Even "old Jinny" is still with
us, though her master does most of his "joggin' 'round" behind a younger horse. Whatever Mr.
Harum's testamentary intentions may be, or even whether he has made a will or not, nobody knows
but himself and his attorney. The quality of timber and class, must go the attentiveness of all
men of moderate means to those successful ruggleses which have demo economy
in all, and at the case followed the empty qualities of property and
safety thus generally accorded around to some oldster generalization of frame,
and which, we am to assume to chance, is subscript in all the truthful
desideratum do of John cheap and real building.

Position sticks, uninjured by cutting mortices but shoes, a property-like manner of doc, tract bearings,
a sustenance for each substance after timber from base to rafter, and embrace and renewing consequence
of the information, that the tensile and compressible posture of pinon timber is adequate to one-fifth
of that of wrought press, represent markets are show as this person.
 Steel is located on t, and somethin of view from three
streets. The grounds are laid out up the is the small walks, and put such shrubs as a plot size would
admit anybody anythin me did. The It, he do want corresponds in its
surroundings.

 His name is David Lenox.

I think that's all.