                   [Footnote 207: Here the Journal ends abruptly, and
                   we have no clew to the writer afterward. As he had
                   enlisted for the campaign of 1776, he doubtless
                   remained with the army until after the expulsion of
                   the British from Boston, in March following, unless
                   he was killed in some of the skirmishes that
                   frequently occurred, or was obliged to leave the
                   army on account of sickness. Whatever was his fate,
                   the veil of oblivion is drawn over it, for he was
                   one of the thousands who with warm hearts and stout
                   hands struggled in the field for the liberties of
                   their country, lie in unhonored graves, and have
                   had no biographers. If he lived until the conflict
                   ended, and died in his native town, no doubt his
                   grave is in the old churchyard at Wrentham. His
                   family was among the earliest settlers there, for
                   Daniel Haws was a resident of the village when it
                   was burnt, in the time of King Philip's war, almost
                   two hundred years ago; and on a plain slab in that
                   old burial-place is the name of Ebenezer Haws, who
                   died in 1812, at the age of ninety-one years.]

SUPPLEMENT, CONTAINING OFFICIAL PAPERS ON THE SKIRMISHES AT LEXINGTON AND CONCORD, AND A LIST
OF REVOLUTIONARY ARTICLES IN THE POUGHKEEPSIE MUSEUM.

SUPPLEMENT.

OFFICIAL PAPERS CONCERNING THE SKIRMISHES AT LEXINGTON AND CONCORD.

In the preceding Journal of a Soldier, in 1775, his narrative commences on the day of the skirmishes
at Lexington and Concord, the opening conflicts of the Revolution. He does so by an effort of imagination
(hypothesis) which has to be subjected to verification: he makes a picture of the fact, and then sets
about on prove that his connection in some way to correspond with
the reality. On the 22d, the Provincial Congress of
Massachusetts assembled, and, deeming it important to have the whole truth known, appointed
a committee to take depositions in relation to the transactions of the British troops in their
route to and from Concord. Another committee was appointed the following day, consisting of
Dr. Church, Elbridge Gerry, and Thomas Cushing, to draw up a narrative of the massacre. The
committee to take depositions held their sessions at Concord and Lexington, on the 23d and
25th of April. Feeling it to be expedient to send an account immediately to England, a committee,
consisting of Dr. Warren, Mr. Freeman, Mr. Gardiner, and Colonel Stone, was chosen to prepare
a letter to Dr. Franklin, the colonial agent in London. They reported a letter, and also an
"Address to the Inhabitants of Great Britain," on the same day. Captain Richard Derby, of Salem,
was employed to proceed immediately with the despatches. He placed them in the hands of Doctor
Franklin on the 29th of May, and on the following day the address was printed and circulated.
It gave the first intelligence of the skirmishes at Lexington and Concord, to the British public.

The following, copied from the Journals of the Continental Congress, are the several papers
referred to:--

  "To the Hon. Benjamin Franklin, Esq., at London.
    "IN PROVINCIAL CONGRESS, WATERTOWN, April 26, 1775.

     "SIR: From the entire confidence we repose in your faithfulness
     and abilities, we consider it the happiness of this colony that
     the important trust of agency for it, in this day of unequalled
     distress, is devolved on your hands, and we doubt not your
     attachment to the cause and liberties of mankind will make every
     possible exertion in our behalf a pleasure to you; although our
     circumstances will compel us often to interrupt your repose, by
     matters that will surely give you pain. A singular instance
     hereof is the occasion of the present letter. The contents of
     this packet will be our apology for troubling you with it.

     "From these you will see how, and by whom, we are at last plunged
     into the horrors of a most unnatural war.

     "Our enemies, we are told, have despatched to Great Britain a
     fallacious account of the tragedy they have begun; to prevent the
     operation of which to the public injury, we have engaged the
     vessel that conveys this to you, as a packet in the service of
     this colony, and we request your assistance in supplying Captain
     Derby, who commands her, with such necessaries as he shall want,
     on the credit of your constituents in Massachusetts Bay.

     "But we most ardently wish that the several papers herewith
     enclosed may be immediately printed and dispersed through every
     town in England, and especially communicated to the lord-mayor,
     aldermen, and council, of the city of London, that they may take
     such order thereon as they may think proper. And we are confident
     your fidelity will make such improvement of them as shall
     convince all, who are not determined to be in everlasting
     blindness, that it is the united efforts of both Englands that
     can save either: but that whatever price our brethren in the one
     may be pleased to put on their constitutional liberties, we are
     authorized to assure you that the inhabitants of the other, with
     the greatest unanimity, are inflexibly resolved to sell theirs
     only at the price of their lives.

       "Signed by order of the Provincial Congress,
                  "JOSEPH WARREN, President, P. T.

              "A true copy from the original minutes,
                  "SAMUEL FREEMAN, Sec. P. T."

The depositions relative to the commencement of hostilities are as follows:--

                                   "LEXINGTON, April 25, 1775.

     "We, Solomon Brown, Jonathan Loring, and Elijah Sanderson, all of
     lawful age, and of Lexington, in the county of Middlesex, and
     colony of the Massachusetts Bay in New England, do testify and
     declare that, on the evening of the 18th of April, instant, being
     on the road between Concord and Lexington, and all of us mounted
     on horses, we were, about ten of the clock, suddenly surprised by
     nine persons, whom we took to be regular officers, who rode up to
     us, mounted and armed, each having a pistol in his hand, and,
     after putting pistols to our breasts, and seizing the bridles of
     our horses, they swore, if we stirred another step, we should be
     all dead men, upon which we surrendered ourselves. They detained
     us until two o'clock the next morning, in which time they
     searched and greatly abused us, having first inquired about the
     magazine at Concord, whether any guards were posted there, and
     whether the bridges were up, and said four or five regiments of
     regulars would be in possession of the stores soon. They then
     brought us back to Lexington, cut the horses' bridles and
     girths, turned them loose, and then left us.

                                   "SOLOMON BROWN,
                         "JONATHAN LORING, ELIJAH SANDERSON."

                                   "LEXINGTON, April 25, 1775.

