NORTHERN TRAVEL.

NORTHERN TRAVEL.

BAYARD TAYLOR.

NEW YORK: G. P. PUTNAM.

1859.

NORTHERN TRAVEL:

Summer and Winter Pictures

OF

SWEDEN, DENMARK AND LAPLAND,

BY

BAYARD TAYLOR.

NEW YORK: G. P. PUTNAM, 115 NASSAU-STREET. 1859. I have attempted to draw, with a hand which,
I hope, has acquired a little steadiness from long practice, the people and the scenery of
Northern Europe, to colour my sketches with the tints of the originals, and to invest each
one with its native and characteristic atmosphere. In order to do this, I have adopted, as
in other countries, a simple rule: to live, as near as possible, the life of the people among
whom I travel. The history of Sweden and Norway, their forms of Government, commerce, productive
industry, political condition, geology, botany, and agriculture, can be found in other works,
and I have only touched upon such subjects where it was necessary to give completeness to my
pictures. I have endeavoured to give photographs, instead of diagrams, or tables of figures;
and desire only that the untravelled reader, who is interested in the countries I visit, may
find that he is able to see them by the aid of my eyes.

BAYARD TAYLOR.

LONDON: November, 1857.

CONTENTS.
                                                                    Page

CHAPTER I.

A WINTER VOYAGE ON THE BALTIC.

Embarking at Lübeck--Put into a Hut--The Company on Board--Night on the Baltic--Ystad--A Life
Lost--Stopped by Ice--A Gale--The Swedish Coast--Arrival at Dalarö--Conscientious Custom-House
Officer                                                               13

CHAPTER II.

STOCKHOLM--PREPARATIONS FOR THE NORTH.

Departure in Sleds--A Meteor--Winter Scenery--Swedish Post- Stations--View of Stockholm--Arrival--Stockholm
Weather--Swedish Ignorance of the North--Funds--Equipment                              21

CHAPTER III.

FIRST EXPERIENCES OF NORTHERN TRAVEL.

A Swedish Diligence--Aspect of the Country--Upsala--A Fellow- Passenger--The Northern Gods--Scenery--Churches--Peasant's
Houses--Arrival at Gefle--Förbud Papers--Speaking Swedish --Daylight at Gefle--A Cold Italian--Experience
of Skjuts and Förbud--We reach Snow--Night Travel--An Arabic Landlord --A Midnight Chase--Quarters
at Bro--The Second Day--We reach Sundsvall                                                
27

CHAPTER IV.

A SLEIGH RIDE THROUGH NORRLAND.

Sundsvall and the Norrlanders--Purchase Sleighs--Start again-- Driving on the Ice--Breakfast
at Fjäl--Twilight Hymn--Angermannland --A Bleak Day--Scenery of Norrland--Postillions--Increase
of Cold --Dark Travel--The Norrland People--The Country and its Products --Northern Thanks--Umeå--The
Inn at Innertafle                        39

CHAPTER V.

PROGRESS NORTHWARD--A STORM.

Christmas Temperature--First Experience of intense Cold--Phenomena thereof--Arctic Travel--Splendour
of the Scenery--The Northern Nature--Gross Appetites--My Nose and the Mercury Frozen--Dreary
Travel--Skellefteå and its Temple--A Winter Storm--The Landlady at Abyn--Ploughing out--Travelling
in a Tempest--Reach Piteå.         50

CHAPTER VI.

JOURNEY FROM PITEÅ TO HAPARANDA.

Torment--Under the Aurora Borealis--A Dismal Night--Around the Bothnian Gulf--Forest Scenery--Månsbyn--The
Suspicious Iron-Master --Brother Horton and the Cold--A Trial of Languages--Another Storm--New
Year's Day--Entrance into Finland--The Finns--Haparanda.   62

CHAPTER VII.

CROSSING THE ARCTIC CIRCLE.

Medical Treatment--The Kind Fredrika--Morals in the North--Our Quarters at Haparanda--Vain
Questions--Start for Lapland--Arctic Daylight--Campbell's Torneå--A Finnish Inn--Colours of
the Arctic Sky--Approach to Avasaxa--Crossing the Arctic Circle--An Afternoon Sunset--Reception
at Juoxengi                                         72

CHAPTER VIII.

ADVENTURES AMONG THE FINNS.

Journey up the Torneå--Wonders of the Winter Woods--Lapps and Reindeer--My Finnish Vocabulary--A
Night Journey--Reception at Kengis--Continue the Journey--Finnish Sleds--A Hard Day--The Inn
at Jokijalka--Its Inmates--Life in a Finnish Hut--An Arctic Picture--A Frozen Country--Kihlangi--A
Polar Night--Parkajoki--We reach Muoniovara.                                                     83

CHAPTER IX.

LIFE IN LAPLAND.

Reception at Muoniovara--Mr. Wolley--Our Lapland Home--A Finnish Bath--Send for Reindeer--A
Finnish House--Stables--The Reindeer Pulk--My first Attempt at driving Reindeer--Failure and
Success --Muonioniska--View from the Hill--Fears of an old Finn--The Discovery of America--A
Lapp Witch--Reindeer Accident.                98

CHAPTER X.

A REINDEER JOURNEY ACROSS LAPLAND.

Preparations for the Journey--Departure--A lazy Deer--"Long Isaac"--An Auroral Spectacle--A
Night at Palajoki--The Table-Land of Lapland--Sagacity of the Deer--Driving a wild Reindeer--Polar
Poetry--Lippajärvi--Picture of a Lapp--The Night--A Phantom Journey--The Track lost--A Lapp
Encampment--Two Hours in a Lapp Tent--We start again--Descent into Norway--Heavy Travel--Lapp
Hut in Siepe--A Fractious Reindeer--Drive to Kautokeino.                 101

CHAPTER XI.

KAUTOKEINO--A DAY WITHOUT A SUN.

Lapland Etiquette--The Inn--Quarters at the Länsman's--Situation of Kautokeino--Climate--Life--Habits
of the Population--Approach of Sunrise--Church Service in Lapland--Cold Religion--Noonday without
Sunrise--The North and the South--A Vision--Visits of the Lapps--Lars Kaino--A Field for Portrait-painting--Character
of the Lapp Race--Their present Condition--The religious Outbreak at Kautokeino--Pastor Hvoslef--A
Piano in Lapland--The Schools--Visit to a Gamme                                           
126

CHAPTER XII.

THE RETURN TO MUONIOVARA.

Advantages of Lapp Costume--Turning Southward--Departure from Kautokeino--A Lapp Hut--Religion--The
Reindeer--Their Qualities --Treatment by the Lapps--Annoyances of Reindeer Travel--Endurance
of Northern Girls--The Table-Land--The "Roof of the World"--Journey to Lippajärvi--Descent
to the Muonio--Female Curiosity--The Return to Muoniovara--Prosaic Life of the Lapps--Modern
Prudery.            141

CHAPTER XIII.

ABOUT THE FINNS.

Change of Plans--Winter in Lapland--The Finns--Their Physical Appearance--Character--Drunkenness--A
Spiritual Epidemic-- Morality--Contradictory Customs--Family Names and Traditions --Apathy
of Northern Life--The Polar Zone--Good Qualities of the Race--An English Naturalist.      
154

CHAPTER XIV.

EXPERIENCES OF ARCTIC WEATHER.

Departure from Muoniovara--50° below Zero--A terrible Day--An Arctic Night--Jokijalka again--Travelling
down the Torneå--A Night at Kardis--Increase of Daylight--Juoxengi--A Struggle for Life--Difficulty
of keeping awake--Frozen Noses--The Norseman's Hell--Freezing Travellers--Full Daylight again--Safe
Arrival at Haparanda--Comfort--The Doctor's Welcome--Drive to Torneå--The Weather.        
164

CHAPTER XV.

INCIDENTS OF THE RETURN JOURNEY.

Mild Weather!--Miraculous Scenery--Näsby--Swedish Honesty --Adventures at Luleå--Northern Sleds--Piteå--Accident
at Skellefteå--The Norrland Climate--A damp Swede--Travelling in a Tempest--A Norrland Inn--Character
of the People--Their Houses.                                                              177

CHAPTER XVI.

CONCLUSION OF THE ARCTIC TRIP.

Warmth and Daylight--Swedish Linen--The Northern Women--Progress Southward--Quarrel with a
Postillion--A Model Village--Rough Roads--Scarcity of Snow--Arrival at Stockholm--Remarks on
Arctic Travel--Scale of Temperature--Record of Cold.                        187

CHAPTER XVII.

LIFE IN STOCKHOLM.

Stockholm--Its Position and Appearance--The Streets and Houses-- Manner of Living--Swedish
Diet--Stockholm in Spring--Swedish Gymnastics--A Grotesque Spectacle--Results of Gymnastics--Ling's
System--The Swedish Language--Character of the Prose and Poetry-- Songs--Life in Stockholm.
197

CHAPTER XVIII.

MANNERS AND MORALS OF STOCKHOLM.

Hospitality of the Swedes--Northern Frenchmen--Stockholm Manners --Dress--Conventionalism--Taking
off the Hat--Courtesy of the Swedish--An Anecdote--King Oscar--The Royal Family--Tendency to
Detraction--The King's Illness--Morals of Stockholm--Illegitimate Births--Sham Morality--Causes
of Immorality--Drunkenness--An Incident.                                                  
210

CHAPTER XIX.

JOURNEY TO GOTTENBURG AND COPENHAGEN.

Appearance of Spring--Departure from Stockholm--The Gotha Canal --Vreta Kloster--Scenery of
the Wener--European Ideas concerning America--A Democratic Nobleman--The Gotha River--Gottenburg--The
Giant's Pots--The Cattegat--Elsinore--The Sound Dues--Copenhagen and its Inhabitants--Thorwaldsen--Interview
with Hans Christian Andersen--Goldschmidt--Prof. Rafn.                                   222

CHAPTER XX.

RETURN TO THE NORTH.--CHRISTIANIA.

Visit to Germany and England--The Steamer at Hull--The North Sea --Fellow-Passengers--Christiansand--The
Coast of Norway--Arrival at Christiania--Preparations for Travelling--The Carriole--Progress
of Christiania--Beauty of its Environs.                              235

CHAPTER XXI.

INCIDENTS OF CARRIOLE TRAVEL.

Disinterested Advice--Departure--Alarm--Descending the Hills--The Skyds System--Krogkleven--The
King's View--Country and Country People--Summer Scenery--The Randsfjord--A Cow-Whale--The Miösen
Lake--More than we bargained for--Astonishing Kindness--The Lake from a Steamer.          
242

CHAPTER XXII.

GULDBRANDSDAL AND THE DOVRE FJELD.

Lillehammer--A Sabbath Morning--A Picture of Dahi--Guldbrandsdal --Annoyances of Norwegian
Travel--The Lougen River--Cataracts--The Station at Viik--Sinclair's Defeat--Pass of the Rusten--The
Upper Valley--Scenery of the Dovre Fjeld--Solitude of the Mountains-- Jerkin--Summit of the
Fjeld--Nature in the North--Defile of the Driv--A Silent Country--Valley of the Orkla--Park
Scenery--A Cunning Hostess--Solidity of Norwegian Women.                        254

CHAPTER XXIII.

DRONTHEIM.--VOYAGE UP THE COAST OF NORWAY.

Panorama of Drontheim--Its Streets and Houses--Quarters at the Hotel--Protestant High Mass--Norwegian
Steamers--Parting View of --Drontheim--The Namsen Fjord--Settlements on the Coast--The Rock
of Torghätten--The Seven Sisters--Singular Coast Scenery--The Horseman--Crossing the Arctic
Circle--Coasting Craft--Bodö--An Arctic Sunset.                                           
269

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE LOFODEN ISLES.

Habits of the Arctic Summer--The Lofoden Islands--Mosköe--The Myth of the Maelström--The Lofoden
Fishermen--Improvement in the People--Lofoden Scenery--The Rasksund--Disappearance of Daylight--Character
of the Scenery--Tromsöe at Midnight.             281

CHAPTER XXV.

FINMARK AND HAMMERFEST.

Visit to the Lapps--Scenery of Tromsdal--Phenomena of the Arctic Summer--The Lapp Gammes--A
Herd of Reindeer--The Midnight Sun and its Effect--Scenery of the Alten Fjord--Pastor Hvoslef--Mr.
Thomas and his Home--Altengaard--A Polar Bishop--An Excited Discussion--Whales--Appearance
of Hammerfest--Fishy Quarters.        289

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE MIDNIGHT SUN.

Plans of Travellers--Ship for the Varanger Fjord--Scenery of Mageröe--Miraculous Provision
for human Life--Fisheries on the Coast--The Porsanger Fjord--Coast Scenery--Sværholtklub--Rousing
the Sea Gulls--Picture of the Midnight Sun--Loss of a Night--The Church of the Lapps--Wonderful
Rock-painting--Nordkyn.               300

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE VARANGER FJORD--ARCTIC LIFE.

The Tana Fjord--Another Midnight--Desolation--Arctic Life--The Varanger Fjord--The Fort of
Vardöhuus--Arrival at Vadsö--Summer there--More of the Lapps--Climate and Delights of Living--Rich
Fishing--Jolly young Englishmen--Daylight Life--Its Effects, physical and Moral--Trees of Hammerfest--An
astronomical Monument.   310

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE RETURN TO DARKNESS--NORWEGIAN CHARACTER.

Splendour of the Northern Coast Scenery--Growth of Vegetation --Government of the Lapps--Pastor
Lamers and his Secession-- Religion in the North--An intelligent Clergyman--Discussions on
Board--Starlight and Lamp-light--Character of the Norwegians --Their national Vanity--Jealousy
of Sweden.                         321

CHAPTER XXIX.

DRONTHEIM AND BERGEN.

Trouble at Drontheim--Valley of the Nid--The Lierfoss--Picture of Christiansund--Molde and
Romsdal--The Vikings and their Descendants--The Rock of Hornelen--Rainy Bergen--A Group of
Lepers--Norwegian Filth--Licentiousness--Picture of Bergen--Its Streets--Drunkenness--Days
of Sunshine--Home-sick for Hammerfest --The Museum--Delays and dear Charges.              
330

CHAPTER XXX.

A TRIP TO THE VÖRING-FOSS.

Parting View of Bergen--Lovely Scenery--Interested Kindness--The Roads of Norway--Uncomfortable
Quarters--Voyage on the Osterfjord --Bolstadören--Swindling Postillions--Arrival at Vossevangen--
Morning Scenery--Agriculture in Norway--Destruction of the Forests --Descent to Vasenden--A
Captain on Leave--Crossing the Fjeld--The Shores of Ulvik--Hardanger Scenery--Angling and Anglers--Pedar
Halstensen--National Song of Norway--Sæbö--A stupendous Defile --Ascent of the Fjeld--Plateau
of the Hardanger--The Vöring-Foss --Its Grandeur--A Sæter Hut--Wonderful Wine.            
341

CHAPTER XXXI.

SKETCHES FROM THE BERGENSTIFT.

Peder's Embarrassment--His Drowning--The Landlady--Morning at Ulvik--A Norwegian Girl--Female
Ugliness--Return to Vossevangen --Indolence--Detention at Stalheim--Scenery of the Naerödal--
Postillions--On the Gudvangen Fjord--The Sogne Fjord--Transparency of the Water--The Boatmen.
359

CHAPTER XXXII.

HALLINGDAL--THE COUNTRY-PEOPLE OF NORWAY.

Roads to Christiania--Southern Sunshine--Saltenaaset--The Church of Borgund--Top of the Fille
Fjeld--Natives on Sunday--Peculiar Female Costume--Scarcity of Milk and Water--The Peak of
Saaten--A Breakfast at Ekre--Hallingdal--Wages of Labourers--Valley Scenery --How Förbuds are
sent--General Swindling--Character of the Norwegians for Honesty--Illustrations--Immorality--A
"Cutty Sark" --Charms of Green.                                                   370

CHAPTER XXXIII.

TELLEMARK AND THE RIUKAN-FOSS.

The Silver Mines of Kongsberg--Roads in Tellemark--Bargaining for Horses--The Inn at Bolkesjö--Sleeping
Admonitions--Smashing Travel--Tinoset--The Tind Lake--A Norwegian Farm-House--The Westfjord-dal
and its Scenery--Ole Torgensen's Daughter--The Valley--A Leper--Defile of the Maan Elv--Picture
of the Riukan-Foss --Its Beauty--A Twilight View--Supper at Ole's--The Comprehension of Man--A
singular Ravine--Hitterdal--How respectable People live --The old Church--Return to Christiania.
383

CHAPTER XXXIV.

NORWAY AND SWEDEN.

Norwegian Honesty--The Country People--Illicit Connections--The Icelandic Language--Professor
Munck--The Storthing--The Norwegian Constitution--The Farmer-State--Conversation between a
German Author and a Swedish Statesman--Gottenburg--A Fire--Swedish Honesty and Courtesy--The
Falls of Trollhätten.                      398

CHAPTER XXXV.

A TRAMP THROUGH WERMELAND AND DALECARLIA.

Our Route--Leaving Carlstad--The Scenery--Valley of the Klar Elv --Ohlsäter--Wedding Arches--Asplund--A
Night Journey--Adventures in search of a Bed--Entrance into Dalecarlia--The Farmers at Tyngsjö--Journey
through the Woods--The People at Westerdal--The Landlord at Rågsveden--The Landlady--Dalecarlian
Morality--A Läsare--The Postillion--Poverty--A Dalecarlian Boy--Reception at Kettbo--Nocturnal
Conversation--Little Pehr--The female Postillion --The Läsare in Dalecarlia--View of Mora Valley.
407

CHAPTER XXXVI.

LAST DAYS IN THE NORTH.

Mora Scenery--"The Parsonage of Mora"--The Magister--Peasants from Upper Elfdal--Scenery of
the Siljan--Hymns on Board--Opinions of the Läsare--Their Increase--Conversation with the Peasants--
Leksand--The Domprost Hvasser--Walk in the Garden--Dalecarlian Songs--Rainy Travel--Fahlun--Journey
to Upsala--The Cholera--The Mound of Odin--Skål to the Gods--The End of Summer in Stockholm
--Farewell to the North.                                             425

NORTHERN TRAVEL, ETC.

CHAPTER I.

A WINTER VOYAGE ON THE BALTIC.

We went on board the little iron Swedish propeller, Carl Johan, at Lübeck, on the morning of
December 1, A.D. 1856, having previously taken our passage for Stockholm. What was our dismay,
after climbing over hills of freight on deck, and creeping down a narrow companion-way, to
find the cabin stowed full of bales of wool and barrels of butter. There was a little pantry
adjoining it, with a friendly stewardess therein, who, in answer to my inquiries, assured us
that we would probably be placed in a hut. After further search, I found the captain, who was
superintending the loading of more freight, and who also stated that he would put us into a
hut. "Let me see the hut, then," I demanded, and we were a little relieved when we found it
to be a state-room, containing two of the narrowest of bunks. There was another hut opposite,
occupied by two more passengers, all that the steamer could carry and all we had, except a
short deck-passenger, who disappeared at the commencement of the voyage, and was not seen again
until its close.

The day was clear and cold, the low hills around Lübeck were covered with snow, and the Trave
was already frozen over. We left at noon, slowly breaking our way down the narrow and winding
river, which gradually widened and became clearer of ice as we approached the Baltic. When
we reached Travemünde it was snowing fast, and a murky chaos beyond the sandy bar concealed
the Baltic. The town is a long row of houses fronting the water. There were few inhabitants
to be seen, for the bathing guests had long since flown, and all watering places have a funereal
air after the season is over. Our fellow-passenger, a jovial Pole, insisted on going ashore
to drink a last glass of Bavarian beer before leaving Germany; but the beverage had been so
rarely called for that it had grown sharp and sour, and we hurried back unsatisfied.

A space about six feet square had been cleared out among the butter-kegs in the cabin, and
we sat down to dinner by candle-light, at three o'clock. Swedish customs already appeared,
in a preliminary decanter of lemon-colored brandy, a thimbleful of which was taken with a piece
of bread and sausage, before the soup appeared. The taste of the liquor was sweet, unctuous
and not agreeable. Our party consisted of the captain, the chief officer, who was his brother-in-law,
the Pole, who was a second-cousin of Kosciusko, and had a name consisting of eight consonants
and two vowels, a grave young Swede with a fresh Norse complexion, and our two selves. The
steward, Hildebrand, and the silent stewardess, Marie, were our attendants and purveyors. The
ship's officers were rather slow and opaque, and the Swede sublimely self-possessed and indifferent;
but the Pole, who had been condemned to death at Cracow, and afterwards invented cheap gas,
was one of the jolliest fellows alive. His German was full of funny mistakes, but he rattled
away with as much assurance as if it had been his native tongue. Before dinner was over, we
were all perfectly well acquainted with each other.

Night had already set in on the Baltic; nothing was to be seen but snow; the deck was heaped
with freight; the storm blew in our teeth; and the steamer, deeply laden, moved slowly and
labouriously; so we stretched ourselves on the narrow bunks in our hut, and preserved a delicate
regard for our equilibrium, even in sleep. In the morning the steep cliffs of Möen, a Danish
island, were visible on our left. We looked for Rügen, the last stronghold of the worship of
Odin in the Middle Ages, but a raw mist rolled down upon the sea, and left us advancing blindly
as before. The wind was strong and cold, blowing the vapory water-smoke in long trails across
the surface of the waves. It was not long, however, before some dim white gleams through the
mist were pointed out as the shores of Sweden, and the Carl Johan slackened her speed to a
snail's pace, snuffing at headland after headland, like a dog off the scent, in order to find
her way into Ystad.

A lift of the fog favored us at last, and we ran into the little harbor. I walked the contracted
hurricane deck at three o'clock, with the sunset already flushing the west, looked on the town
and land, and thought of my friend Dr. Kane. The mercury had fallen to 16°, a foot of snow
covered the house-roofs, the low, undulating hills all wore the same monotonous no-color, and
the yellow-haired people on the pier were buttoned up close, mittened and fur-capped. The captain
telegraphed to Calmar, our next port, and received an answer that the sound was full of ice
and the harbor frozen up. A custom-house officer, who took supper with us on board, informed
us of the loss of the steam-ship Umeå, which was cut through by the ice near Sundsvall, and
sunk, drowning fifteen persons--a pleasant prospect for our further voyage--and the Pole would
have willingly landed at Ystad if he could have found a conveyance to get beyond it. We had
twelve tons of coal to take on board, and the work proceeded so slowly that we caught another
snow-storm so thick and blinding that we dared not venture out of the harbor.

On the third morning, nevertheless, we were again at sea, having passed Bornholm, and were
heading for the southern end of the Island of Oland. About noon, as we were sitting huddled
around the cabin stove, the steamer suddenly stopped. There was a hurried movement of feet
overhead--a cry--and we rushed on deck. One of the sailors was in the act of throwing overboard
a life buoy. "It is the Pole!" was our first exclamation. "No, no," said Hildebrand, with a
distressed face, "it is the cabin-boy"--a sprightly, handsome fellow of fourteen. There he
was struggling in the icy water, looking toward the steamer, which was every moment more distant.
Two men were in the little boat, which had just been run down from the davits, but it seemed
an eternity until their oars were shipped, and they pulled away on their errand of life or
death. We urged the mate to put the steamer about, but he passively refused. The boy still
swam, but the boat was not yet half-way, and headed too much to the left. There was no tiller,
and the men could only guess at their course. We guided them by signs, watching the boy's head,
now a mere speck, seen at intervals under the lowering sky. He struggled gallantly; the boat
drew nearer, and one of the men stood up and looked around. We watched with breathless suspense
for the reappearance of the brave young swimmer, but we watched in vain. Poor boy! who can
know what was the agony of those ten minutes, while the icy waves gradually benumbed and dragged
down the young life that struggled with such desperate energy to keep its place in the world!
The men sat down and rowed back, bringing only his cap, which they had found floating on the
sea. "Ah!" said Hildebrand, with tears in his eyes, "I did not want to take him this voyage,
but his mother begged me so hard that I could not refuse, and this is the end!"

We had a melancholy party in the cabin that afternoon. The painful impression made by this
catastrophe was heightened by the knowledge that it might have been prevented. The steamer
amidships was filled up to her rail with coal, and the boy was thrown overboard by a sudden
lurch while walking upon it. Immediately afterwards, lines were rove along the stanchions,
to prevent the same thing happening again. The few feet of deck upon which we could walk were
slippery with ice, and we kept below, smoking gloomily and saying little. Another violent snow-storm
came on from the north, but in the afternoon we caught sight of some rocks off Carlscrona,
and made the light on Oland in the evening. The wind had been blowing so freshly that our captain
suspected Calmar Sound might be clear, and determined to try the passage. We felt our way slowly
through the intricate sandbanks, in the midst of fog and snow, until after midnight, when only
six miles from Calmar, we were stopped by fields of drift ice, and had to put back again.

The fourth morning dawned cold and splendidly clear. When I went on deck we were rounding the
southern point of Oland, through long belts of floating ice. The low chalk cliffs were covered
with snow, and looked bleak and desolate enough. The wind now came out of the west, enabling
us to carry the foresail, so that we made eight or nine knots, in spite of our overloaded condition.
Braisted and I walked the deck all day, enjoying the keen wind and clear, faint sunshine of
the North. In the afternoon, however, it blew half a gale, with flurries of mingled rain and
snow. The sea rose, and the steamer, lumbered as she was, could not be steered on her course,
but had to be "conned," to keep off the strain. The hatches were closed, and an occasional
sea broke over the bows. We sat below in the dark huts; the Pole, leaning against the bulkhead,
silently awaiting his fate, as he afterwards confessed. I had faith enough in the timidity
of our captain, not to feel the least alarm--and, true enough, two hours had not elapsed before
we lay-to under the lee of the northern end of Oland. The Pole then sat down, bathed from head
to foot in a cold sweat, and would have landed immediately, had it been possible. The Swede
was as inexpressive as ever, with the same half-smile on his fair, serious face.

I was glad to find that our captain did not intend to lose the wind, but would start again
in an hour or two. We had a quieter night than could have been anticipated, followed by a brilliant
morning. Such good progress had been made that at sunrise the lighthouse on the rocks of Landsort
was visible, and the jagged masses of that archipelago of cloven isles which extends all the
way to Torneå, began to stud the sea. The water became smoother as we ran into the sound between
Landsort and the outer isles. A long line of bleak, black rocks, crusted with snow, stretched
before us. Beside the lighthouse, at their southern extremity, there were two red frame-houses,
and a telegraph station. A boat, manned by eight hardy sailors, came off with a pilot, who
informed us that Stockholm was closed with ice, and that the other steamers had been obliged
to stop at the little port of Dalarö, thirty miles distant. So for Dalarö we headed, threading
the channels of the scattering islands, which gradually became higher and more picturesque,
with clumps of dark fir crowning their snowy slopes. The midday sun hung low on the horizon,
throwing a pale yellow light over the wild northern scenery; but there was life in the cold
air, and I did not ask for summer.

We passed the deserted fortress of Dalarö, a square stone structure, which has long since outlived
its purpose, on the summit of a rock in the sound. Behind it, opened a quiet bay, held in a
projecting arm of the mainland, near the extremity of which appeared our port--a village of
about fifty houses, scattered along the abrupt shore. The dark-red buildings stood out distinctly
against the white background; two steamers and half a dozen sailing crafts were moored below
them; about as many individuals were moving quietly about, and for all the life and animation
we could see, we might have been in Kamtchatka.

As our voyage terminated here, our first business was to find means of getting to Stockholm
by land. Our fellow-passengers proposed that we should join company, and engage five horses
and three sleds for ourselves and luggage. The Swede willingly undertook to negotiate for us,
and set about the work with his usual impassive semi-cheerfulness. The landlord of the only
inn in the place promised to have everything ready by six o'clock the next morning, and our
captain, who was to go on the same evening, took notices of our wants, to be served at the
two intervening post-stations on the road. We then visited the custom-house, a cabin about
ten feet square, and asked to have our luggage examined. "No," answered the official, "we have
no authority to examine anything; you must wait until we send to Stockholm." This was at least
a new experience. We were greatly vexed and annoyed, but at length, by dint of explanations
and entreaties, prevailed upon the man to attempt an examination. Our trunks were brought ashore,
and if ever a man did his duty conscientiously, it was this same Swedish official. Every article
was taken out and separately inspected, with an honest patience which I could not but admire.
Nothing was found contraband, however; we had the pleasure of repacking, and were then pulled
back to the Carl Johan in a profuse sweat, despite the intense cold.

CHAPTER II.

STOCKHOLM.--PREPARATIONS FOR THE NORTH.

On the following morning we arose at five, went ashore in the darkness, and after waiting an
hour, succeeded in getting our teams together. The horses were small, but spirited, the sleds
rudely put together, but strong, and not uncomfortable, and the drivers, peasants of the neighborhood,
patient, and good-humoured. Climbing the steep bank, we were out of the village in two minutes,
crossed an open common, and entered the forests of fir and pine. The sleighing was superb,
and our little nags carried us merrily along, at the usual travelling rate of one Swedish mile
(nearly seven English) per hour. Enveloped from head to foot in our fur robes, we did not feel
the sharp air, and in comparing our sensations, decided that the temperature was about 20°.
What was our surprise, on reaching the post-station, at learning that it was actually 2° below
zero!

Slowly, almost imperceptibly, the darkness decreased, but the morning was cloudy, and there
was little appearance of daybreak before nine o'clock. In the early twilight we were startled
by the appearance of a ball of meteoric fire, nearly as large as the moon, and of a soft white
lustre, which moved in a horizontal line from east to west, and disappeared without a sound.
I was charmed by the forest scenery through which we passed. The pine, spruce, and fir trees,
of the greatest variety of form, were completely coated with frozen snow, and stood as immovable
as forests of bronze incrusted with silver. The delicate twigs of the weeping birch resembled
sprays of crystal, of a thousand airy and exquisite patterns. There was no wind, except in
the open glades between the woods, where the frozen lakes spread out like meadow intervals.
As we approached the first station there were signs of cultivation--fields inclosed with stake
fences, low red houses, low barns, and scanty patches of garden land. We occasionally met peasants
with their sleds--hardy, red-faced fellows, and women solid enough to outweigh their bulk in
pig-iron.

The post-station was a cottage in the little hamlet of Berga. We drove into the yard, and while
sleds and horses were being changed, partook of some boiled milk and tough rye-bread, the only
things to be had, but both good of their kind. The travellers' room was carpeted and comfortable,
and the people seemed poor only because of their few wants. Our new sleds were worse than the
former, and so were our horses, but we came to the second station in time, and found we must
make still another arrangement. The luggage was sent ahead on a large sled, while each pair
of us, seated in a one horse cutter, followed after it, driving ourselves. Swedish horses are
stopped by a whistle, and encouraged by a smacking of the lips, which I found impossible to
learn at once, and they considerately gave us no whips. We had now a broad, beaten road, and
the many teams we met and passed gave evidence of our approach to Stockholm. The country, too,
gently undulating all the way, was more thickly settled, and appeared to be under tolerable
cultivation.

About one in the afternoon, we climbed a rising slope, and from its brow looked down upon Stockholm.
The sky was dark-gray and lowering; the hills were covered with snow, and the roofs of the
city resembled a multitude of tents, out of which rose half a dozen dark spires. On either
side were arms of the Mälar Lake--white, frozen plains. Snow was already in the air, and presently
we looked through a screen of heavy flakes on the dark, weird, wintry picture. The impression
was perfect of its kind, and I shall not soon forget it.

We had passed through the southern suburb, and were descending to the lake, when one of our
shafts snapped off. Resigning the cutter to the charge of a stout maiden, who acted as postillion,
Braisted and I climbed upon the luggage, and in this wise, shaggy with snowy fur, passed through
the city, before the House of Nobles and the King's Palace, and over the Northern Bridge, and
around the northern suburb, and I know not where else, to the great astonishment of everybody
we met, until our stupid driver found out where he was to go. Then we took leave of the Pole,
who had engaged horses to Norrköping, and looked utterly disconsolate at parting; but the grave
Swede showed his kind heart at last, for--neglecting his home, from which he had been absent
seven years--he accompanied us to an hotel, engaged rooms, and saw us safely housed.

We remained in Stockholm a week, engaged in making preparations for our journey to the North.
During this time we were very comfortably quartered in Kahn's Hotel, the only one in the capital
where one can get both rooms and meals. The weather changed so entirely, as completely to destroy
our first impressions, and make the North, which we were seeking, once more as distant as when
we left Germany. The day after our arrival a thaw set in, which cleared away every particle
of snow and ice, opened the harbor, freed the Mälar Lake, and gave the white hills around the
city their autumnal colors of brown and dark-green. A dense fog obscured the brief daylight,
the air was close, damp, and oppressive, everybody coughed and snuffled, and the air-tight
rooms, so comfortable in cold weather, became insufferable. My blood stagnated, my spirits
descended as the mercury rose, and I grew all impatience to have zero and a beaten snow-track
again.

We had more difficulty in preparing for this journey than I anticipated--not so much in the
way of procuring the necessary articles, as the necessary information on the subject. I was
not able to find a man who had made the journey in winter, or who could tell me what to expect,
and what to do. The mention of my plan excited very general surprise, but the people were too
polished and courteous to say outright that I was a fool, though I don't doubt that many of
them thought so. Even the maps are only minute enough for the traveller as far as Torneå, and
the only special maps of Lapland I could get dated from 1803. The Government, it is true, has
commenced the publication of a very admirable map of the kingdom, in provinces, but these do
not as yet extend beyond Jemteland, about Lat. 63° north. Neither is there any work to be had,
except some botanical and geological publications, which of course contain but little practical
information. The English and German Handbooks for Sweden are next to useless, north of Stockholm.
The principal assurances were, that we should suffer greatly from cold, that we should take
along a supply of provisions, for nothing was to be had, and that we must expect to endure
hardships and privations of all kinds. This prospect was not at all alarming, for I remembered
that I had heard much worse accounts of Ethiopia while making similar preparations in Cairo,
and have learned that all such bugbears cease to exist when they are boldly faced.

Our outfit, therefore, was restricted to some coffee, sugar, salt, gunpowder, lucifer-matches,
lead, shot and slugs, four bottles of cognac for cases of extremity, a sword, a butcher-knife,
hammer, screw-driver, nails, rope and twine, all contained in a box about eighteen inches square.
A single valise held our stock of clothing, books, writing and drawing materials, and each
of us carried, in addition, a double-barrelled musket. We made negotiations for the purchase
of a handsome Norrland sleigh (numbers of which come to Stockholm, at this season, laden with
wild-fowl), but the thaw prevented our making a bargain. The preparation of the requisite funds,
however, was a work of some time. In this I was assisted by Mr. Moström, an excellent valet-de-place,
whom I hereby recommend to all travellers. When, after three or four days' labour and diplomacy,
he brought me the money, I thought I had suddenly come in possession of an immense fortune. He
forgive you was, and we hate you runs when the body about my late been. I state him that you are
regretful boots for whatever it is, and is so he accept out his most
hard swedish delusion.

"" it wear'we desire it, "state Hugo, most huskily." i detest him.

"" Hugo!

"" i love we have been-- Outfit.

You detest him engage, were excessively, if you know him bear as good be burdened as which we do.
You are reaching to wed it! Good, as we will be frozen wholly your ghetto had there, but is so
we retrieve we state.

"" i should be animated with which you if i did not cognize how little
you melted this, "state Angela, in supplying with the was unruffled
my sound, paint had been lined without audacity, her maps who appear
feverishly dull." you are not like herself, Great; you are straiten
about something.

Not very i cognize, were obliged at least, we do not detest you, you do not detest us. "" i do
not detest you fathom, "state Upsala, clothing.

We rolled myself in frock and urge it rolled out to overlip.

And he state more, by-and-concession, i had been rather withdraw her had nightie, he make no resistance
to her travel. She engaged i engage as hesitancy, i know that Mister. Luttrell
would desire her was at noon, or did not wish to be keep expect.

I peek rearward when she make the way would show him was from hope.
She see while he had been restart his wing, and with noddle, and
my countenance had hide." rich Hugo!

"she state to yourself, as i become towards bungalow. Netherglen
was the quaint-looking, being irregular structure was of stockholm,
material, not really big, and had too larger than my chapter lead
one along hypothesis, of case that every offstage had been append
besides gold, where it was not instantly be apparent.

The offstage was that, although construct near up travel, and it did not really stir it discovered
before two like my sure attractor where a relation was necessary;
the whose suite were of ala we run this limited furs fathom for length,
but were divide singularly been provided to silver of one or two bottom.

This was a backstop was waddled, we was allotted, in winding behind
ordination is provided to money i make myself by the juvenile as they
were in the nursery had not locate in journey.

It had surely been an effective 120; it there was easy of learn any
arctic continue from these apartment, yet when one stand ourselves
in small and peripheral posing-hundreds who have unfold. Angela was
important hope without gray'NORTHERN and Richard and determine whether
or not we was truly earnestly thurify to relative, but while we was
not to be establish.


Our fellow-passengers were two Swedes, an unprepossessing young fellow who spoke a few words
of English, and a silent old gentleman; we did not derive much advantage from their society,
and I busied myself with observing the country through which we passed. A mile or two, past
handsome country-seats and some cemeteries, brought us into the region of forests. The pines
were tall and picturesque in their forms, and the grassy meadows between them, entirely clear
of snow, were wonderfully green for the season. During the first stage we passed some inlets
of the Baltic, highly picturesque with their irregular wooded shores. They had all been frozen
over during the night. We were surprised to see, on a southern hill-side, four peasants at
work ploughing. How they got their shares through the frozen sod, unless the soil was remarkably
dry and sandy, was more than I could imagine. We noticed occasionally a large manor-house,
with its dependent out-buildings, and its avenue of clipped beeches or lindens, looking grand
and luxurious in the midst of the cold dark fields. Here and there were patches of wheat, which
the early snow had kept green, and the grass in the damp hollows was still bright, yet it was
the 15th of December, and we were almost in lat. 60° N.

The houses were mostly one-story wooden cottages, of a dull red color, with red roofs. In connection
with the black-green of the pine and fir woods they gave the country a singularly sombre aspect.
There was little variation in the scenery all the way to Upsala. In some places, the soil appeared
to be rich and under good cultivation; here the red villages were more frequent, and squat
church-towers showed themselves in the distance. In other places, we had but the rough hills,
or rather knobs of gray gneiss, whose masses were covered with yellow moss, and the straggling
fir forests. We met but few country teams on the road; nobody was to be seen about the houses,
and the land seemed to be asleep or desolated. Even at noon, when the sun came out fairly,
he was low on the horizon, and gave but an eclipsed light, which was more cheerless than complete
darkness.

The sun set about three o'clock, but we had a long, splendid twilight, a flush of orange, rose
and amber-green, worthy of a Mediterranean heaven. Two hours afterwards, the lights of Upsala
appeared, and we drove under the imposing front of the old palace, through clean streets, over
the Upsala River, and finally stopped at the door of a courtyard. Here we were instantly hailed
by some young fellows, who inquired if we did not want rooms. The place did not appear to be
an inn, but as the silent old gentleman got out and went in, I judged it best to follow his
example, and the diligence drove off with our baggage. We were right, after all: a rosy, handsome,
good-humored landlady appeared, promised to furnish us with beds and a supper, to wake us betimes,
and give us coffee before leaving.

The old gentleman kindly put on his coat and accompanied us to a bookstore on the public square,
where I found Akrell's map of Northern Sweden, and thus partially replaced our loss. He sat
awhile in our room trying to converse, but I made little headway. On learning that we were
bound for Torneå, he asked: "Are you going to buy lumber?" "No," I answered; "we are merely
going to see the country." He laughed long and heartily at such an absurd idea, got up in a
hurry, and went to bed without saying another word. We had a supper of various kinds of sausage,
tough rye bread, and a bowl of milk, followed by excellent beds--a thing which you are sure
to find everywhere in Sweden.

We drove off again at half-past six in the morning moon light, with a temperature of zero.
Two or three miles from the town we passed the mounds of old Upsala, the graves of Odin, Thor
and Freja, rising boldly against the first glimmerings of daylight. The landscape was broad,
dark and silent, the woods and fields confusedly blended together, and only the sepulchres
of the ancient gods broke the level line of the horizon. I could readily have believed in them
at that hour.

Passing over the broad rich plain of Upsala, we entered a gently undulating country, richer
and better cultivated than the district we had traversed the previous day. It was splendidly
wooded with thick fir forests, floored with bright green moss. Some of the views toward the
north and west were really fine from their extent, though seen in the faded light and long
shadows of the low northern sun. In the afternoon, we passed a large white church, with four
little towers at the corners, standing in the midst of a village of low red stables, in which
the country people shelter their horses while attending service. There must have been fifty
or sixty of these buildings, arranged in regular streets. In most of the Swedish country churches,
the belfry stands apart, a squat, square tower, painted red, with a black upper story, and
is sometimes larger than the church itself. The houses of the peasants are veritable western
shanties, except in color and compactness. No wind finds a cranny to enter, and the roofs of
thick thatch, kept down by long, horizontal poles, have an air of warmth and comfort. The stables
are banked with earth up to the hay-loft, and the cattle enter their subterranean stalls through
sloping doorways like those of the Egyptian tombs.

Notwithstanding we made good progress through the day, it was dark long before we reached the
bridge over the Dal Elv, and of the famous cascades we saw only a sloping white glimmer, between
dark masses of forest, and heard the noise of the broken waters. At Elfkarleby we were allowed
twenty minutes for dinner--boiled salmon and beefsteak, both bad. I slept after this, until
aroused by the old Swede, as we entered Gefle. We drove across a broad bridge, looked over
vessels frozen into the inlet of the Gulf, passed a large public square, and entered the yard
of the diligence office. A boy in waiting conducted us to a private house, where furnished
rooms were to be had, and here we obtained tea, comfortable beds, and the attendance of a rosy
servant-girl, who spoke intelligible Swedish.

My first care the next morning, was to engage horses and send off my förbud papers. We were
now to travel by "skjuts" (pronounced shoos), or post, taking new horses at each station on
the road. The förbud tickets are simply orders for horses to be ready at an appointed time,
and are sent in advance to all the stations on the road, either by mail or by a special messenger.
Without this precaution, I was told, we might be subjected to considerable delay. This mode
of travelling is peculiar to Sweden and Norway. It has been in existence for three or four
centuries, and though gradually improved and systematized with the lapse of time, it is still
sufficiently complex and inconvenient to a traveller coming from the railroad world.

Professor Retzius had referred me to the botanist Hartman, in case of need, but I determined
to commence by helping myself. I had a little difficulty at first: the people are unused to
speaking with foreigners, and if you ask them to talk slowly, they invariably rattle away twice
as fast as before. I went into a variety shop on the public square, and asked where I could
engage horses for Sundsvall. After making myself understood, as I supposed, the clerk handed
me some new bridles. By dint of blundering, I gradually circumscribed the range of my inquiries,
and finally came to a focus at the right place. Having ordered horses at six the next morning,
and despatched the förbud tickets by the afternoon's mail, I felt that I had made a good beginning,
and we set out to make the tour of Gefle.

This is a town of eight or ten thousand inhabitants, with a considerable shipping interest,
and a naval school. It is a pretty place, well built, and with a neat, substantial air. The
houses are mostly two stories high, white, and with spacious courts in the rear. The country
around is low but rolling, and finely clothed with dark forests of fir and pine. It was a superb
day--gloriously clear, with a south wind, bracing, and not too cold, and a soft, pale lustre
from the cloudless sun. But such a day! Sunrise melting into sunset without a noon--a long
morning twilight, a low, slant sun, shining on the housetops for an hour or so, and the evening
twilight at three in the afternoon. Nothing seemed real in this strange, dying light--nothing
but my ignorance of Swedish, whenever I tried to talk.

In the afternoon, we called on the Magister Hartman, whom we found poring over his plants.
He spoke English tolerably, and having made a journey through Lapland from Torneå to the Lyngen
Fjord, was able to give us some information about the country. He encouraged us in the belief
that we should find the journey more rapid and easy in winter than in summer. He said the Swedes
feared the North and few of them ever made a winter journey thither, but nothing could stop
the Americans and the English from going anywhere. He also comforted us with the assurance
that we should find snow only six Swedish (forty English) miles further north. Lat. 60° 35'
N., the 17th of December, and no snow yet! In the streets, we met an organ-grinder playing
the Marseillaise. There was no mistaking the jet-black hair, the golden complexion and the
brilliant eyes of the player, "Siete Italiano?" I asked. "Sicuro!" he answered, joyously: "e
lei anche?" "Ah," he said, in answer to my questions, "io non amo questo paese; è freddo ed
oscuro; non si gagna niente--ma in Italia si vive." My friend Ziegler had already assured me:
"One should see the North, but not after the South." Well, we shall see; but I confess that
twenty degrees below zero would have chilled me less than the sight of that Italian.

We were at the inn punctually at six in the morning, but our horses were not ready. The hållkarl,
or ostler, after hearing my remonstrances, went on splitting wood, and, as I did not know enough
of Swedish to scold with any profit, I was obliged to remain wrathful and silent. He insisted
on my writing something (I could not understand what) in the post-book, so I copied the affidavit
of a preceding traveller and signed my name to it, which seemed to answer the purpose. After
more than half an hour, two rough two-wheeled carts were gotten ready, and the farmers to whom
they belonged, packed themselves and our luggage into one, leaving us to drive the other. We
mounted, rolled ourselves in our furs, thrust our feet into the hay, and rattled out of Gefle
in the frosty moonlight. Such was our first experience of travelling by skjuts.

The road went northward, into dark forests, over the same undulating, yet monotonous country
as before. The ground was rough and hard, and our progress slow, so that we did not reach the
end of the first station (10 miles) until nine o'clock. As we drove into the post-house, three
other travellers, who had the start of us, and consequently the first right to horses, drove
away. I was dismayed to find that my förbud had not been received, but the ostler informed
me that by paying twelve skillings extra I could have horses at once. While the new carts were
getting ready, the postman, wrapped in wolf-skin, and with a face reddened by the wind, came
up, and handed out my förbud ticket. Such was our first experience of förbud.

On the next station, the peasant who was ahead with our luggage left the main road and took
a rough track through the woods. Presently we came to a large inlet of the Bothnian gulf, frozen
solid from shore to shore, and upon this we boldly struck out. The ice was nearly a foot thick,
and as solid as marble. So we drove for at least four miles, and finally came to land on the
opposite side, near a sawmill. At the next post-house we found our predecessors just setting
off again in sleds; the landlord informed us that he had only received my förbud an hour previous,
and, according to law was allowed three hours to get ready his second instalment of horses,
the first being exhausted. There was no help for it: we therefore comforted ourselves with
breakfast. At one o'clock we set out again in low Norrland sleds, but there was little snow
at first, and we were obliged to walk the first few miles. The station was a long one (twenty
English miles), and our horses not the most promising. Coming upon solid snow at last, we travelled
rather more swiftly, but with more risk. The sleds, although so low, rest upon narrow runners,
and the shafts are attached by a hook, upon which they turn in all directions, so that the
sled sways from side to side, entirely independent of them. In going off the main road to get
a little more snow on a side track, I discovered this fact by overturning the sled, and pitching
Braisted and myself out on our heads. There were lakes on either side, and we made many miles
on the hard ice, which split with a dull sound under us. Long after dark, we reached the next
station, Stråtjära, and found our horses in readiness. We started again, by the gleam of a
flashing aurora, going through forests and fields in the uncertain light, blindly following
our leader, Braisted and I driving by turns, and already much fatigued. After a long time,
we descended a steep hill, to the Ljusne River. The water foamed and thundered under the bridge,
and I could barely see that it fell in a series of rapids over the rocks.

At Mo Myskie, which we reached at eight o'clock, our horses had been ready four hours, which
gave us a dollar banco väntapenningar (waiting money) to pay. The landlord, a sturdy, jolly
fellow, with grizzly hair and a prosperous abdomen, asked if we were French, and I addressed
him in that language. He answered in English on finding that we were Americans. On his saying
that he had learned English in Tripoli, I addressed him in Arabic. His eyes flashed, he burst
into a roaring laugh of the profoundest delight, and at once answered in the majestic gutturals
of the Orient. "Allah akhbar!" he cried; "I have been waiting twenty years for some one to
speak to me in Arabic, and you are the first!" He afterwards changed to Italian, which he spoke
perfectly well, and preferred to any foreign language. We were detained half an hour by his
delight, and went off forgetting to pay for a bottle of beer, the price of which I sent back
by the skjutsbonde, or postillion.

This skjutsbonde was a stupid fellow, who took us a long, circuitous road, in order to save
time. We hurried along in the darkness, constantly crying out "Kör på!" (Drive on!) and narrowly
missing a hundred overturns. It was eleven at night before we reached the inn at Kungsgården,
where, fortunately, the people were awake, and the pleasant old landlady soon had our horses
ready. Hugo express that a cry like that of animal in dint hurting, and contend in guardianship, feet,
dentition yet, against the infliction of the wild float; and he fought
with much vain. He raise his hunting-output as he talk, and brought
it up heavily on the dog's cut. We were half asleep, tired out,
nearly frozen, (mercury below zero) and dashed along at haphazard, through vast dark forests,
up hill and down, following the sleepy boy who drove ahead with our baggage. A dozen times
the sled, swaying from side to side like a pendulum, tilted, hung in suspense a second, and
then righted itself again. The boy fell back on the hay and slept, until Braisted, creeping
up behind, startled him with terrific yells in his ears. Away then dashed the horse, down steep
declivities, across open, cultivated valleys, and into the woods again. After midnight the
moon rose, and the cold was intenser than ever. The boy having fallen asleep again, the horse
took advantage of it to run off at full speed, we following at the same rate, sometimes losing
sight of him and uncertain of our way, until, after a chase of a few miles, we found the boy
getting his reins out from under the runners. Finally, after two in the morning, we reached Bro.

Here we had ordered a warm room, beds and supper, by förbud, but found neither. A sleepy, stupid
girl, who had just got up to wait on a captain who had arrived before us and was going on,
told us there was nothing to be had. "We must eat, if we have to eat you," I said, savagely,
for we were chilled through and fierce with hunger; but I might as well have tried to hurry
the Venus de Medici. At last we got some cold sausage, a fire, and two couches, on which we
lay down without undressing, and slept. I had scarcely closed my eyes, it seemed, when the
girl, who was to call us at half-past five o'clock, came into the room. "Is it half-past five?"
I asked. "Oh, yes," she coolly answered, "it's much more." We were obliged to hurry off at
once to avoid paying so much waiting money.

At sunrise we passed Hudiksvall, a pretty town at the head of a deep bay, in which several
vessels were frozen up for the winter. There were some handsome country houses in the vicinity,
better cultivation, more taste in building, and a few apple and cherry orchards. The mercury
was still at zero, but we suffered less from the cold than the day previous, and began to enjoy
our mode of travel. The horses were ready at all the stations on our arrival, and we were not
delayed in changing. There was now plenty of snow, and the roads were splendid--the country
undulating, with beautiful, deep valleys, separated by high, wooded hills, and rising to bold
ridges in the interior. The houses were larger and better than we had yet seen--so were the
people--and there was a general air of progress and well-doing. In fact, both country and population
improved in appearance as we went northward.

The night set in very dark and cold, threatening snow. We had an elephant of a horse, which
kicked up his heels and frisked like an awkward bull-pup, dashed down the hills like an avalanche,
and carried us forward at a rapid rate. We coiled ourselves up in the hay, kept warm, and trusted
our safety to Providence, for it was impossible to see the road, and we could barely distinguish
the other sled, a dark speck before us. The old horse soon exhausted his enthusiasm. Braisted
lost the whip, and the zealous boy ahead stopped every now and then to hurry us on. The aurora
gleamed but faintly through the clouds; we were nearly overcome with sleep and fatigue, but
took turns in arousing and amusing each other. The sled vibrated continually from side to side,
and finally went over, spilling ourselves and our guns into a snow-bank. The horse stopped
and waited for us, and then went on until the shafts came off. Toward ten o'clock, the lights
of Sundsvall appeared, and we soon afterwards drove into the yard of the inn, having made one
hundred and fifty-five miles in two days. We were wretchedly tired, and hungry as bears, but
found room in an adjoining house, and succeeded in getting a supper of reindeer steak. I fell
asleep in my chair, before my pipe was half-finished, and awoke the next morning to a sense
of real fatigue. I had had enough of travelling by förbud.

CHAPTER IV.

A SLEIGH RIDE THROUGH NORRLAND.

Sundsvall is a pretty little town of two or three thousand inhabitants, situated at the head
of a broad and magnificent bay. It is the eastern terminus of the only post-road across the
mountains to Trondhjem (Drontheim) in Norway, which passes through the extensive province of
Jemteland. It is, consequently, a lively and bustling place, and has a considerable coasting
trade. The day after our arrival was market-day, and hundreds of the Norrlanders thronged the
streets and public square. They were all fresh, strong, coarse, honest, healthy people--the
men with long yellow hair, large noses and blue eyes, the women with the rosiest of checks
and the fullest development of body and limb. Many of the latter wore basques or jackets of
sheepskin with the wool inside, striped petticoats and bright red stockings. The men were dressed
in shaggy sheepskin coats, or garments of reindeer skin, with the hair outward. There was a
vast collection of low Norrland sleds, laden with butter, cheese, hay, and wild game, and drawn
by the rough and tough little horses of the country. Here was still plenty of life and animation,
although we were already so far north that the sun did not shine upon Sundsvall the whole day,
being hidden by a low hill to the south. The snowy ridges on the north, however, wore a bright
roseate blush from his rays, from ten until two.

We called upon a merchant of the place, to whom I had a letter of introduction. He was almost
the only man I met before undertaking the journey, who encouraged me to push on. "The people
in Stockholm," said he, "know nothing about Northern Sweden." He advised me to give up travelling
by förbud, to purchase a couple of sleds, and take our chance of finding horses: we would have
no trouble in making from forty to fifty English miles per day. On returning to the inn, I
made the landlord understand what we wanted, but could not understand him in return. At this
juncture came in a handsome fellow; with a cosmopolitan air, whom Braisted recognised, by certain
invisible signs, as the mate of a ship, and who explained the matter in very good English.
I purchased two plain but light and strongly made sleds for 50 rigs (about $14), which seemed
very cheap, but I afterwards learned that I paid much more than the current price.

On repacking our effects, we found that everything liquid was frozen--even a camphorated mixture,
which had been carefully wrapped in flannel. The cold, therefore, must have been much more
severe than we supposed. Our supplies, also, were considerably damaged--the lantern broken,
a powder-flask cracked, and the salt, shot, nails, wadding, &c., mixed together in beautiful
confusion. Everything was stowed in one of the sleds, which was driven by the postilion; the
other contained only our two selves. We were off the next morning, as the first streaks of
dawn appeared in the sky. The roads about Sundsvall were very much cut up, and even before
getting out of the town we were pitched over head and ears into a snow-bank.

We climbed slowly up and darted headlong down the ridges which descend from the west toward
the Bothnian Gulf, dividing its tributary rivers; and toward sunrise, came to a broad bay,
completely frozen over and turned into a snowy plain. With some difficulty the skjutsbonde
made me understand that a shorter road led across the ice to the second post-station, Fjäl,
avoiding one change of horses. The way was rough enough at first, over heaped blocks of ice,
but became smoother where the wind had full sweep, and had cleared the water before it froze.
Our road was marked out by a double row of young fir-trees, planted in the ice. The bay was
completely land-locked, embraced by a bold sweep of wooded hills, with rich, populous valleys
between. Before us, three or four miles across, lay the little port of Wifsta-warf, where several
vessels--among them a ship of three or four hundred tuns--were frozen in for the winter. We
crossed, ascended a long hill, and drove on through fir woods to Fjäl, a little hamlet with
a large inn. Here we got breakfast; and though it may be in bad taste to speak of what one
eats, the breakfast was in such good taste that I cannot pass over it without lingering to
enjoy, in memory, its wonderful aroma. Besides, if it be true, as some shockingly gross persons
assert, that the belly is a more important district of the human economy than the brain, a
good meal deserves chronicling no less than an exalted impression. Certain it is, that strong
digestive are to be preferred to strong thinking powers--better live unknown than die of dyspepsia.
This was our first country meal in Norrland, of whose fare the Stockholmers have a horror,
yet that stately capital never furnished a better. We had beefsteak and onions, delicious blood-puddings,
the tenderest of pancakes (no omelette soufflée could be more fragile), with ruby raspberry
jam, and a bottle of genuine English porter. If you think the bill of fare too heavy and solid,
take a drive of fifteen miles in the regions of Zero, and then let your delicate stomach decide.

In a picturesque dell near Fjäl we crossed the rapid Indal River, which comes down from the
mountains of Norway. The country was wild and broken, with occasional superb views over frozen
arms of the Gulf, and the deep rich valleys stretching inland. Leaving Hernösand, the capital
of the province, a few miles to our right, we kept the main northern road, slowly advancing
from station to station with old and tired horses. There was a snow-storm in the afternoon,
after which the sky came out splendidly clear, and gorgeous with the long northern twilight.
In the silence of the hour and the deepening shadows of the forest through which we drove,
it was startling to hear, all at once the sound of voices singing a solemn hymn. My first idea
was, that some of those fanatical Dissenters of Norrland who meet, as once the Scotch Covenanters,
among the hills, were having a refreshing winter meeting in the woods; but on proceeding further
we found that the choristers were a company of peasants returning from market with their empty
sleds.

It was already dark at four o'clock, and our last horses were so slow that the postilion, a
handsome, lively boy, whose pride was a little touched by my remonstrances, failed, in spite
of all his efforts, to bring us to the station before seven. We stopped at Weda, on the Angermann
River, the largest stream in Northern Sweden. Angermannland, the country which it drains, is
said to be a very wild and beautiful region, where some traces of the old, original Asiatic
type which peopled Scandinavia are yet to be traced in the features of its secluded population.
At Weda, we found excellent quarters. A neat, quiet, old-fashioned little servant-girl, of
twelve or fourteen, took charge of us, and attended to all our wants with the greatest assiduity.
We had a good supper, a small but neat room, clean beds, and coffee in the morning, beside
a plentiful provision for breakfast on the way, for a sum equal to seventy-five cents.

We left at half-past seven, the waning moon hanging on the horizon, and the first almost imperceptible
signs of the morning twilight in the east. The Angermann River which is here a mile broad,
was frozen, and our road led directly across its surface. The wind blew down it, across the
snow-covered ice, making our faces tingle with premonitory signs of freezing, as the mercury
was a little below zero. My hands were chilled inside the fur mittens, and I was obliged to
rub my nose frequently, to prevent it from being nipped. The day was raw and chilly, and the
temperature rose very little, although the hills occasionally sheltered us from the wind. The
scenery, also, grew darker and wilder as we advanced. The fir-trees were shorter and stunted,
and of a dark greenish-brown, which at a little distance appeared completely black. Nothing
could exceed the bleak, inhospitable character of these landscapes. He know in hub that it was useful
to reason with heat. But place for mho'behalf he immerse his bitterness, and make one the attempt.
"if he atone----" he begin dubiously, and ne'er finished night.

"i wear't atone," state Hugo. His androglossia was fortunately unkept,
but excessively noncompliant miles.

At velleity where he was awake as he talk.

Richard shrugged his cut. "you learn?" he state, fortunately by member. "i learn," Brian',
in miles, professed timbre. With Hugo crouch and pouch-people which
however put we had at flatfoot.

He consider
it in lodging, and should again laughed loudly, though not really
steady.

"it is empty however," he state.

"it will be useless, before uncertainty. I am lots to you, Cousin-german." The activity, by speech
were follow engineering, have reached yet Richard, who deliberation
nothing concisely regretful It.

He flip his caput and we become off contemptuous "bad Elysium!" Brian walked to way, and so
stand however, with stern were arrived to relative.

Hugo peek to one to willies, which he try to garment, and sink where
the container was furtively into inn.

He was well-pleased horses to Richard become rearward with hair, and a leer had arrived of discovery.
"Brian," we state Luttrell, and more softly than he had hitherto had
talk, "i should believe where i should understand father come down
the way. Will encounter her and we take her had off from inlet, without
state her had the explanation? I wear't begrudge her place to encounter
soon-- this don'-- so." The vocalization, where the leer that he have
confer upon Hugo at the speech that he underscore, where we make
the noddle.

Brian walked off place we have without diversion to confer at
news on Hugo. It was a activity, and one which the chap, with pounding,
that he could yet realize.
 We awoke with headaches, on account of gas from the tight
Russian stove. The temperature, at starting, was 22° below zero--colder than either of us had
ever before known. We were a little curious, at first, to know how we should endure it, but,
to our delight, found ourselves quite warm and comfortable. The air was still, dry, and delicious
to inhale. My nose occasionally required friction, and my beard and moustache became a solid
mass of ice, frozen together so that I could scarcely open my mouth, and firmly fastened to
my fur collar. We travelled forty-nine miles, and were twelve hours on the way, yet felt no
inconvenience from the temperature.

By this time it was almost wholly a journey by night, dawn and twilight, for full day there
was none. The sun rose at ten and set at two. We skimmed along, over the black, fir-clothed
hills, and across the pleasant little valleys, in the long, gray, slowly-gathering daybreak:
then, heavy snow-clouds hid half the brief day, and the long, long, dusky evening glow settled
into night. The sleighing was superb, the snow pure as ivory, hard as marble, and beautifully
crisp and smooth. Our sleds glided over it without effort, the runners making music as they
flew. With every day the country grew wilder, blacker and more rugged, with no change in the
general character of the scenery. In the afternoon we passed the frontier of Norrland, and
entered the province of West Bothnia. There are fewer horses at the stations, as we go north,
but also fewer travellers, and we were not often detained. Thus far, we had no difficulty:
my scanty stock of Swedish went a great way, and I began to understand with more facility,
even the broad Norrland dialect.

The people of this region are noble specimens of the physical man--tall, broad-shouldered,
large-limbed, ruddy and powerful; and they are mated with women who, I venture to say, do not
even suspect the existence of a nervous system. The natural consequences of such health are:
morality and honesty--to say nothing of the quantities of rosy and robust children which bless
every household. If health and virtue cannot secure happiness, nothing can, and these Norrlanders
appear to be a thoroughly happy and contented race. We had occasional reason to complain of
their slowness; but, then, why should they be fast? It is rather we who should moderate our
speed. Braisted, however, did not accept such a philosophy. "Charles XII. was the boy to manage
the Swedes," said he to me one day; "he always kept them in a hurry."

We reached Lefwar, our resting-place for the night, in good condition, notwithstanding the
22° below, and felt much colder in the house, after stripping off our furs, than out of doors
with them on. They gave us a supper consisting of smörgås ("butter-goose"--the Swedish prelude
to a meal, consisting usually of bread, butter, pickled anchovies, and caviar flavored with
garlic), sausages, potatoes, and milk, and made for us sumptuous beds of the snowiest and sweetest
linen. When we rose next morning it was snowing. About an inch had fallen during the night,
and the mercury had risen to 6° below zero. We drove along in the dusky half-twilight toward
Angesjö, over low, broad hills, covered with forests of stunted birch and fir. The scenery
continued the same, and there is no use in repeating the description, except to say that the
land became more cold and barren, and there seemed to be few things cultivated except flax,
barley and potatoes. Still the same ridges sweeping down to the Gulf, on one hand, the same
frozen bays and inlets on the other, and villages at intervals of eight or ten miles, each
with its great solid church, low red belfry and deserted encampment of red frame stables. Before
reaching the second station, we looked from a wooded height over the open expanse of the Gulf,--a
plain of snow-covered ice, stretching eastward as far as the eye could reach.

The day gradually became still and cold, until the temperature reached -22° again, and we became
comfortable in the same proportion. The afternoon twilight, splendid with its hues of amber,
rose and saffron, died away so gradually, that it seemed scarcely to fade at all, lighting
our path for at least three hours after sunset. Our postilions were all boys--ruddy, hardy
young fellows of fourteen or fifteen, who drove well and sang incessantly, in spite of the
cold. They talked much with us, but to little purpose, as I found it very difficult to understand
the humming dialect they spoke. Each, as he received his drickpenningar (drink-money, or gratuity),
at the end of the station, expressed his thanks by shaking hands with us. This is a universal
custom throughout the north of Sweden: it is a part of the simple, natural habits of the people;
and though it seemed rather odd at first to be shaking hands with everybody, from the landlord
down to the cook and the ostler, we soon came to take it as a matter of course. The frank,
unaffected way in which the hand was offered, oftener made the custom a pleasant one.

At Stocksjö we decided to push on to a station beyond Umeå, called Innertafle, and took our
horses accordingly. The direct road, however, was unused on account of the drifts, so we went
around through Umeå, after all. We had nearly a Swedish mile, and it was just dark when we
descended to the Umeå River, across whose solid surface we drove, and up a steep bank into
the town. We stopped a few moments in the little public square, which was crowded with people,
many of whom had already commenced their Christmas sprees. The shops were lighted, and the
little town looked very gay and lively. Passing through, we kept down the left bank of the
river for a little distance, and then struck into the woods. It was night by this time; all
at once the boy stopped, mounted a snow-bank, whirled around three or four times, and said
something to me which I could not understand. "What's the matter?" I asked; "is not this the
road to Innertafle?" "I don't know--I think not," he said. "Don't you know the way, then?"
I asked again. "No!" he yelled in reply, whirled around several times more, and then drove
on. Presently we overtook a pedestrian, to whom he turned for advice, and who willingly acted
as guide for the sake of a ride. Away we went again, but the snow was so spotless that it was
impossible to see the track. Braisted and I ran upon a snow-bank, were overturned and dragged
some little distance, but we righted ourselves again, and soon afterwards reached our destination.

In the little inn the guests' room lay behind the large family kitchen, through which we were
obliged to pass. We were seized with a shivering fit on stripping off our furs, and it seemed
scarcely possible to get warm again. This was followed by such intense drowsiness that we were
obliged to lie down and sleep an hour before supper. After the cold weather set in, we were
attacked with this drowsy fit every day, toward evening, and were obliged to take turns in
arousing and stimulating each other. This we generally accomplished by singing "From Greenland's
icy mountains," and other appropriate melodies. At Innertafle we were attended by a tall landlady,
a staid, quiet, almost grim person, who paid most deliberate heed to our wants. After a delay
of more than two hours, she furnished us with a supper consisting of some kind of fresh fish,
with a sauce composed of milk, sugar and onions, followed by gryngröt, a warm mush of mixed
rice and barley, eaten with milk. Such was our fare on Christmas eve; but hunger is the best
sauce, and our dishes were plentifully seasoned with it.

CHAPTER V.

PROGRESS NORTHWARDS.--A STORM.

We arose betimes on Christmas morn, but the grim and deliberate landlady detained us an hour
in preparing our coffee. I was in the yard about five minutes, wearing only my cloth overcoat
and no gloves, and found the air truly sharp and nipping, but not painfully severe. Presently,
Braisted came running in with the thermometer, exclaiming, with a yell of triumph, "Thirty,
by Jupiter!" (30° of Reaumur, equal to 35-1/2° below zero of Fahrenheit.) We were delighted
with this sign of our approach to the Arctic circle.

The horses were at last ready; we muffled up carefully, and set out. The dawn was just streaking
the East, the sky was crystal-clear, and not a breath of air stirring. My beard was soon a
solid mass of ice, from the moisture of my breath, and my nose required constant friction.
The day previous, the ice which had gathered on my fur collar lay against my face so long that
the flesh began to freeze over my cheek-bones, and thereafter I was obliged to be particularly
cautious. As it grew lighter, we were surprised to find that our postilion was a girl. She
had a heavy sheepskin over her knees, a muff for her hands, and a shawl around her head, leaving
only the eyes visible. Thus accoutred, she drove on merrily, and, except that the red of her
cheeks became scarlet and purple, showed no signs of the weather. As we approached Sörmjöle,
the first station, we again had a broad view of the frozen Bothnian Gulf, over which hovered
a low cloud of white ice-smoke. Looking down into the snowy valley of Sörmjöle, we saw the
straight pillars of smoke rising from the houses high into the air, not spreading, but gradually
breaking off into solid masses which sank again and filled the hollow, almost concealing the
houses. Only the white, handsome church, with its tall spire, seated on a mound, rose above
this pale blue film and shone softly in the growing flush of day.

We ordered horses at once, after drinking a bowl of hot milk, flavored with cinnamon. This
is the favourite winter drink of the people, sometimes with the addition of brandy. But the
finkel, or common brandy of Sweden, is a detestable beverage, resembling a mixture of turpentine,
train oil, and bad molasses, and we took the milk unmixed, which admirably assisted in keeping
up the animal heat. The mercury by this time had fallen to 38° below zero. We were surprised
and delighted to find that we stood the cold so easily, and prided ourselves not a little on
our powers of endurance. Our feet gradually became benumbed, but, by walking up the hills,
we prevented the circulation from coming to a stand-still.

The cold, however, played some grotesque pranks with us. My beard, moustache, cap, and fur
collar were soon one undivided lump of ice. Our eyelashes became snow-white and heavy with
frost, and it required constant motion to keep them from freezing together. We saw everything
through visors barred with ivory. Our eyebrows and hair were as hoary as those of an octogenarian,
and our cheeks a mixture of crimson and orange, so that we were scarcely recognizable by each
other. Every one we met had snow-white locks, no matter how youthful the face, and, whatever
was the colour of our horses at starting, we always drove milk-white steeds at the close of
the post. The irritation of our nostrils occasioned the greatest inconvenience, and as the
handkerchiefs froze instantly, it soon became a matter of pain and difficulty to use them.
You might as well attempt to blow your nose with a poplar chip. We could not bare our hands
a minute, without feeling an iron grasp of cold which seemed to squeeze the flesh like a vice,
and turn the very blood to ice. In other respects we were warm and jolly, and I have rarely
been in higher spirits. The air was exquisitely sweet and pure, and I could open my mouth (as
far as its icy grating permitted) and inhale full draughts into the lungs with a delicious
sensation of refreshment and exhilaration. I had not expected to find such freedom of respiration
in so low a temperature. Some descriptions of severe cold in Canada and Siberia, which I have
read, state that at such times the air occasions a tingling, smarting sensation in the throat
and lungs, but I experienced nothing of the kind.

This was arctic travel at last. By Odin, it was glorious! The smooth, firm road, crisp and
pure as alabaster, over which our sleigh-runners talked with the rippling, musical murmur of
summer brooks; the sparkling, breathless firmament; the gorgeous rosy flush of morning, slowly
deepening until the orange disc of the sun cut the horizon; the golden blaze of the tops of
the bronze firs; the glittering of the glassy birches; the long, dreary sweep of the landscape;
the icy nectar of the perfect air; the tingling of the roused blood in every vein, all alert
to guard the outposts of life against the besieging cold--it was superb! The natives themselves
spoke of the cold as being unusually severe, and we congratulated ourselves all the more on
our easy endurance of it. Had we judged only by our own sensations we should not have believed
the temperature to be nearly so low.

The sun rose a little after ten, and I have never seen anything finer than the spectacle which
we then saw for the first time, but which was afterwards almost daily repeated--the illumination
of the forests and snow-fields in his level orange beams, for even at midday he was not more
than eight degrees above the horizon. The tops of the trees, only, were touched: still and
solid as iron, and covered with sparkling frost-crystals, their trunks were changed to blazing
gold, and their foliage to a fiery orange-brown. The delicate purple sprays of the birch, coated
with ice, glittered like wands of topaz and amethyst, and the slopes of virgin snow, stretching
towards the sun, shone with the fairest saffron gleams. There is nothing equal to this in the
South--nothing so transcendently rich, dazzling, and glorious. Italian dawns and twilights
cannot surpass those we saw every day, not, like the former, fading rapidly into the ashen
hues of dusk, but lingering for hour after hour with scarce a decrease of splendour. Strange
that Nature should repeat these lovely aerial effects in such widely different zones and seasons.
I thought to find in the winter landscapes of the far North a sublimity of death and desolation--a
wild, dark, dreary, monotony of expression--but I had, in reality, the constant enjoyment of
the rarest, the tenderest, the most enchanting beauty.

The people one meets along the road harmonise with these unexpected impressions. They are clear
eyed and rosy as the morning, straight and strong as the fir saplings in their forests, and
simple, honest, and unsophisticated beyond any class of men I have ever seen. They are no milksops
either. Under the serenity of those blue eyes and smooth, fair faces, burns the old Berserker
rage, not easily kindled, but terrible as the lightning when once loosed. "I would like to
take all the young men north of Sundsvall," says Braisted, "put them into Kansas, tell them
her history, and then let them act for themselves." "The cold in clime are cold in blood,"
sings Byron, but they are only cold through superior self-control and freedom from perverted
passions.

There are tender hearts in the breasts of these northern men and women, albeit they are as
undemonstrative as the English--or we Americans, for that matter. It is exhilarating to see
such people--whose digestion is sound, whose nerves are tough as whipcord, whose blood runs
in a strong full stream, whose impulses are perfectly natural, who are good without knowing
it, and who are happy without trying to be so. Where shall we find such among our restless
communities at home?

We made two Swedish miles by noon, and then took a breakfast of fried reindeer meat and pancakes,
of which we ate enormously, to keep up a good supply of fuel. Braisted and I consumed about
a pound of butter between us. Shriek not, young ladies, at our vulgar appetites--you who sip
a spoonful of ice-cream, or trifle with a diminutive meringue, in company, but make amends
on cold ham and pickles in the pantry, after you go home--I shall tell the truth, though it
disgust you. This intense cold begets a necessity for fat, and with the necessity comes the
taste--a wise provision of Nature! The consciousness now dawned upon me that I might be able
to relish train-oil and tallow-candles before we had done with Lapland.

I had tough work at each station to get my head out of my wrappings, which were united with
my beard and hair in one solid lump. The cold increased instead of diminishing, and by the
time we reached Gumboda, at dusk, it was 40° below zero. Here we found a company of Finns travelling
southward, who had engaged five horses, obliging us to wait a couple of hours. We had already
made forty miles, and were satisfied with our performance, so we stopped for the night. When
the thermometer was brought in, the mercury was frozen, and on unmuffling I found the end of
my nose seared as if with a hot iron. The inn was capital; we had a warm carpeted room, beds
of clean, lavendered linen, and all civilised appliances. In the evening we sat down to a Christmas
dinner of sausages, potatoes, pancakes, raspberry jam, and a bottle of Barclay and Perkin's
best porter, in which we drank the health of all dear relatives and friends in the two hemispheres.
And this was in West Bothnia, where we had been told in Stockholm that we should starve! At
bedtime, Braisted took out the thermometer again, and soon brought it in with the mercury frozen
below all the numbers on the scale.

In the morning, the landlord came in and questioned us, in order to satisfy his curiosity.
He took us for Norwegians, and was quite surprised to find out our real character. We had also
been taken for Finns, Russians and Danes, since leaving Stockholm. "I suppose you intend to
buy lumber?" said the landlord. "No," said I, "we travel merely for the pleasure of it." "Ja
so-o-o!" he exclaimed, in a tone of the greatest surprise and incredulity. He asked if it was
necessary that we should travel in such cold weather, and seemed reluctant to let us go. The
mercury showed 25° below zero when we started, but the sky was cloudy, with a raw wind from
the north-west. We did not feel the same hard, griping cold as the day previous, but a more
penetrating chill. The same character of scenery continued, but with a more bleak and barren
aspect, and the population became more scanty. The cloudy sky took away what little green there
was in the fir-trees, and they gloomed as black as Styx on either side of our road. The air
was terribly raw and biting as it blew across the hollows and open plains. I did not cover
my face, but kept up such a lively friction on my nose, to prevent it from freezing, that in
the evening I found the skin quite worn away.

At Daglösten, the third station, we stopped an hour for breakfast. It was a poverty-stricken
place, and we could only get some fish-roes and salt meat. The people were all half-idiots,
even to the postilion who drove us. We had some daylight for the fourth station, did the fifth
by twilight, and the sixth in darkness. The cold (-30°) was so keen that our postilions made
good time, and we reached Sunnanå on the Skellefteå River, 52 miles, soon after six o'clock.
Here we were lodged in a large, barn-like room, so cold that we were obliged to put on our
overcoats and sit against the stove. I began to be troubled with a pain in my jaw, from an
unsound tooth--the commencement of a martyrdom from which I suffered for many days afterwards.
The existence of nerves in one's teeth has always seemed to me a superfluous provision of Nature,
and I should have been well satisfied if she had omitted them in my case.

The handmaiden called us soon after five o'clock, and brought us coffee while we were still
in bed. This is the general custom here in the North, and is another point of contact with
the South. The sky was overcast, with raw violent wind--mercury 18° below zero. We felt the
cold very keenly; much more so than on Christmas day. The wind blew full in our teeth, and
penetrated even beneath our furs. On setting out, we crossed the Skellefteå River by a wooden
bridge, beyond which we saw, rising duskily in the uncertain twilight, a beautiful dome and
lantern, crowning a white temple, built in the form of a Greek cross. It was the parish church
of Skellefteå. Who could have expected to find such an edifice, here, on the borders of Lapland?
The village about it contains many large and handsome houses. This is one of the principal
points of trade and intercourse between the coast and the interior.

The weather became worse as we advanced, traversing the low, broad hills, through wastes of
dark pine forests. The wind cut like a sharp sword in passing the hollows, and the drifting
snow began to fill the tracks. We were full two hours in making the ten miles to Frostkage,
and the day seemed scarcely nearer at hand. The leaden, lowering sky gave out no light, the
forests were black and cold, the snow a dusky grey--such horribly dismal scenery I have rarely
beheld. We warmed ourselves as well as we could, and started anew, having for postilions two
rosy boys, who sang the whole way and played all sorts of mad antics with each other to keep
from freezing. At the next station we drank large quantities of hot milk, flavored with butter,
sugar and cinnamon, and then pushed on, with another chubby hop-o'-my-thumb as guide and driver.
The storm grew worse and worse: the wind blew fiercely over the low hills, loaded with particles
of snow, as fine as the point of a needle and as hard as crystal, which struck full on our
eyeballs and stung them so that we could scarcely see. I had great difficulty in keeping my
face from freezing, and my companion found his cheek touched.

By the time we reached Abyn, it blew a hurricane, and we were compelled to stop. It was already
dusk, and our cosy little room was doubly pleasant by contrast with the wild weather outside.
Our cheerful landlady, with her fresh complexion and splendid teeth, was very kind and attentive,
and I got on very well in conversation, notwithstanding her broad dialect. She was much astonished
at my asking for a bucket of cold water, for bathing. "Why," said she, "I always thought that
if a person put his feet into cold water, in winter, he would die immediately." However, she
supplied it, and was a little surprised to find me none the worse in the morning. I passed
a terrible night from the pain in my face, and was little comforted, on rising, by the assurance
that much snow had fallen. The mercury had risen to zero, and the wind still blew, although
not so furiously as on the previous day. We therefore determined to set out, and try to reach
Piteå. The landlady's son, a tall young Viking, with yellow locks hanging on his shoulders,
acted as postilion, and took the lead. We started at nine, and found it heavy enough at first.
It was barely light enough to see our way, and we floundered slowly along through deep drifts
for a mile, when we met the snow-plows, after which our road became easier. These plows are
wooden frames, shaped somewhat like the bow of a ship--in fact, I have seen very fair clipper
models among them--about fifteen feet long by ten feet wide at the base, and so light that,
if the snow is not too deep, one horse can manage them. The farmers along the road are obliged
to turn out at six o'clock in the morning whenever the snow falls or drifts, and open a passage
for travellers. Thus, in spite of the rigorous winter, communication is never interrupted,
and the snow-road, at last, from frequent plowing, becomes the finest sleighing track in the world.

The wind blew so violently, however, that the furrows were soon filled up, and even the track
of the baggage-sled, fifty yards in advance, was covered. There was one hollow where the drifts
of loose snow were five or six feet deep, and here we were obliged to get out and struggle
across, sinking to our loins at every step. It is astonishing how soon one becomes hardened
to the cold. Although the mercury stood at zero, with a violent storm, we rode with our faces
fully exposed, frost-bites and all, and even drove with bare hands, without the least discomfort.
But of the scenery we saw this day, I can give no description. There was nothing but long drifts
and waves of spotless snow, some dim, dark, spectral fir-trees on either hand, and beyond that
a wild chaos of storm. The snow came fast and blinding, beating full in our teeth. It was impossible
to see; the fine particles so stung our eyeballs, that we could not look ahead. My eyelashes
were loaded with snow, which immediately turned to ice and froze the lids together, unless
I kept them in constant motion. The storm hummed and buzzed through the black forests; we were
all alone on the road, or even the pious Swedes would not turn out to church on such a day.
It was terribly sublime and desolate, and I enjoyed it amazingly. We kept warm, although there
was a crust of ice a quarter of an inch thick on our cheeks, and the ice in our beards prevented
us from opening our mouths. At one o'clock, we reached the second station, Gefre, unrecognisable
by our nearest friends. Our eyelashes were weighed down with heavy fringes of frozen snow,
there were icicles an inch long hanging to the eaves of our moustaches, and the handkerchiefs
which wrapped our faces were frozen fast to the flesh. The skin was rather improved by this
treatment, but it took us a great while to thaw out.

At Gefre, we got some salt meat and hot milk, and then started on our long stage of fifteen
miles to Piteå. The wind had moderated somewhat, but the snow still fell fast and thick. We
were again blinded and frozen up more firmly than ever, cheeks and all, so that our eyes and
lips were the only features to be seen. After plunging along for more than two hours through
dreary woods, we came upon the estuary of the Piteå River, where our course was marked out
by young fir-trees, planted in the ice. The world became a blank; there was snow around, above
and below, and but for these marks a man might have driven at random until he froze. For three
miles or more, we rode over the solid gulf, and then took the woods on the opposite shore.
The way seemed almost endless. Our feet grew painfully cold, our eyes smarted from the beating
of the fine snow, and my swollen jaw tortured me incessantly. Finally lights appeared ahead
through the darkness, but another half hour elapsed before we saw houses on both sides of us.
There was a street, at last, then a large mansion, and to our great joy the skjutsbonde turned
into the courtyard of an inn.

CHAPTER VI.

JOURNEY FROM PITEÅ TO HAPARANDA.

My jaw was so painful on reaching Piteå, that I tossed about in torment the whole night, utterly
unable to sleep. The long northern night seemed as if it would never come to an end, and I
arose in the morning much more fatigued and exhausted than when I lay down. It was 6° below
zero, and the storm still blowing, but the cold seemed to relieve my face a little, and so
we set out. The roads were heavy, but a little broken, and still led over hills and through
interminable forests of mingled fir and pine, in the dark, imperfect day. I took but little
note of the scenery, but was so drowsy and overcome, that Braisted at last filled the long
baggage-sled with hay, and sat at the rear, so that I could lie stretched out, with my head
upon his lap. Here, in spite of the cold and wind, I lay in a warm, stupid half-sleep.

It was dark when we reached Ersnäs, whence we had twelve miles to Old Luleå, with tired horses,
heavy roads, and a lazy driver. I lay down again, dozed as usual, and tried to forget my torments.
So passed three hours; the night had long set in, with a clear sky, 13° below zero, and a sharp
wind blowing. All at once an exclamation from Braisted aroused me. I opened my eyes, as I lay
in his lap, looked upward, and saw a narrow belt or scarf of silver fire stretching directly
across the zenith, with its loose, frayed ends slowly swaying to and fro down the slopes of
the sky. Presently it began to waver, bending back and forth, sometimes slowly, sometimes with
a quick, springing motion, as if testing its elasticity. Now it took the shape of a bow, now
undulated into Hogarth's line of beauty, brightening and fading in its sinuous motion, and
finally formed a shepherd's crook, the end of which suddenly began to separate and fall off,
as if driven by a strong wind, until the whole belt shot away in long, drifting lines of fiery
snow. It then gathered again into a dozen dancing fragments, which alternately advanced and
retreated, shot hither and thither, against and across each other, blazed out in yellow and
rosy gleams or paled again, playing a thousand fantastic pranks, as if guided by some wild whim.

We lay silent, with upturned faces, watching this wonderful spectacle. Suddenly, the scattered
lights ran together, as by a common impulse, joined their bright ends, twisted them through
each other, and fell in a broad, luminous curtain straight downward through the air until its
fringed hem swung apparently but a few yards over our heads. This phenomenon was so unexpected
and startling, that for a moment I thought our faces would be touched by the skirts of the
glorious auroral drapery. It did not follow the spheric curve of the firmament, but hung plumb
from the zenith, falling, apparently, millions of leagues through the air, its folds gathered
together among the stars and its embroidery of flame sweeping the earth and shedding a pale,
unearthly radiance over the wastes of snow. A moment afterwards and it was again drawn up,
parted, waved its flambeaux and shot its lances hither and thither, advancing and retreating
as before. Anything so strange, so capricious, so wonderful, so gloriously beautiful, I scarcely
hope to see again.

By this time we came upon the broad Luleå River, and were half an hour traversing its frozen
surface, still watching the snow above us, which gradually became fainter and less active.
Finally we reached the opposite shore, drove up a long slope, through a large village of stables,
and past the imposing church of Old Luleå to the inn. It was now nearly eight o'clock, very
cold, and I was thoroughly exhausted. But the inn was already full of travellers, and there
was no place to lay our heads. The landlord, a sublimely indifferent Swede, coolly advised
us to go on to Persö, ten miles distant. I told him I had not slept for two nights, but he
merely shrugged his shoulders, repeated his advice, and offered to furnish horses at once,
to get us off. It was a long, cold, dreary ride, and I was in a state of semi-consciousness
the whole time. We reached Persö about eleven, found the house full of travellers, but procured
two small beds in a small room with another man in it, and went to sleep without supper. I
was so thoroughly worn out that I got about three hours' rest, in spite of my pain.

We took coffee in bed at seven, and started for Rånbyn, on the Råneå River. The day was lowering,
temperature 8-1/2° below zero. The country was low, slightly undulating with occasional wide
views to the north, over the inlets of the gulf, and vast wide tracts of forest. The settlements
were still as frequent as ever, but there was little apparent cultivation, except flax. Rånbyn
is a large village, with a stately church. The people were putting up booths for a fair (a
fair in the open air, in lat. 65° N., with the mercury freezing!), which explained the increased
travel on the road. We kept on to Hvitå for breakfast, thus getting north of the latitude of
Torneå; thence our road turned eastward at right angles around the head of the Bothnian Gulf.
Much snow had fallen, but the road had been ploughed, and we had a tolerable track, except
when passing sleds, which sometimes gave us an overturn.

We now had uninterrupted forest scenery between the stations--and such scenery! It is almost
impossible to paint the glory of those winter forests. Every tree, laden with the purest snow,
resembles a Gothic fountain of bronze, covered with frozen spray, through which only suggestive
glimpses of its delicate tracery can be obtained. From every rise we looked over thousands
of such mimic fountains, shooting, low or high, from their pavements of ivory and alabaster.
It was an enchanted wilderness--white, silent, gleaming, and filled with inexhaustible forms
of beauty. To what shall I liken those glimpses under the boughs, into the depths of the forest,
where the snow destroyed all perspective, and brought the remotest fairy nooks and coverts,
too lovely and fragile to seem cold, into the glittering foreground? "Wonderful! Glorious!"
I could only exclaim, in breathless admiration. Once, by the roadside, we saw an Arctic ptarmigan,
as white as the snow, with ruby eyes that sparkled like jewels as he moved slowly and silently
along, not frightened in the least.

The sun set a little after one o'clock, and we pushed on to reach the Kalix River the same
evening. At the last station we got a boy postilion and two lazy horses, and were three hours
and a half on the road, with a temperature of 20° below zero. My feet became like ice, which
increased the pain in my face, and I began to feel faint and sick with so much suffering and
loss of rest. But all the m were rather eager to be gain part of it. "" oh, ya, i know, "state Myskie were
nearly, frightened lest he should have ache our sensitivity," of course it'mho all silent between
you and me.

They were right for case. Then came the
village of Månsbyn, where, thank Heaven, we got something to eat, a warm room, and a bed.

While we were at supper, two travellers arrived, one of whom, a well-made, richly-dressed young
fellow, was ushered into our room. He was a bruk-patron (iron-master), so the servant informed
us, and from his superfine broad-cloth, rings, and the immense anchor-chain which attached
him to his watch, appeared to be doing a thriving business. He had the Norse bloom on his face,
a dignified nose, and English whiskers flanking his smoothly-shaven chin. His air was flushed
and happy; he was not exactly drunk, but comfortably within that gay and cheerful vestibule
beyond which lies the chamber of horrors. He listened to our conversation for some time, and
finally addressed me in imperfect English. This led to mutual communications, and a declaration
of our character, and object in travel--nothing of which would he believe. "Nobody can possibly
come here for pleasure," said he; "I know better; you have a secret political mission." Our
amusement at this only strengthened him in his suspicions. Nevertheless he called for a bottle
of port wine, which, when it came, turned out to be bad Malaga, and insisted on drinking a
welcome. "You are in latitude 66° north," said he; "on the Kalix, where no American has ever
been before, and I shall call my friend to give a skål to your country. We have been to the
church, where my friend is stationed."

With that he went out, and soon returned with a short, stout, broad faced, large-headed man
of forty or thereabouts. His manner was perfectly well-bred and self-possessed, and I took
him to be a clergyman, especially as the iron-master addressed him as "Brother Horton." "Now,"
said he, "welcome to 66° north, and prosperity to free America! Are you for Buchanan or Fremont?"
Brother Horton kept a watchful eye upon his young friend, but cheerfully joined in the sentiment.
I gave in return: "Skål to Sweden and the Swedish people," and hoped to get rid of our jolly
acquaintance; but he was not to be shaken off. "You don't know me," he said; "and I don't know
you--but you are something more than you seem to be: you are a political character." Just then
Braisted came in with the thermometer, and announced 24° of cold (Reaumur). "Thousand devils!"
exclaimed Brother Horton (and now I was convinced that he was not a clergyman), "what a thermometer!
How cold it makes the weather! Would you part with it if I were to give you money in return?"
I declined, stating that it was impossible for us to procure so cold a thermometer in the north,
and we wanted to have as low a temperature as could be obtained.

This seemed to puzzle the iron-master, who studied awhile upon it, and then returned to the
subject of my political mission. "I suppose you speak French," said he; "it is necessary in
diplomacy. I can speak it also"--which he began to do, in a bungling way. I answered in the
same language, but he soon gave up the attempt and tried German. I changed also, and, finding
that he had exhausted his philology, of which he was rather proud, especially as Brother Horton
knew nothing but Swedish, determined to have a little fun. "Of course you know Italian," said
I; "it is more musical than German," and forthwith addressed him in that language. He reluctantly
confessed his ignorance. "Oh, well," I continued, "Spanish is equally agreeable to me;" and
took up that tongue before he could reply. His face grew more and more blank and bewildered.
"The Oriental languages are doubtless familiar to you;" I persisted, "I have had no practice
in Arabic for some time," and overwhelmed him with Egyptian salutations. I then tried him with
Hindustanee, which exhausted my stock, but concluded by giving him the choice of Malay, Tartar,
or Thibetan. "Come, come," said Brother Horton, taking his arm as he stood staring and perplexed--"the
horses are ready." With some difficulty he was persuaded to leave, after shaking hands with
us, and exclaiming, many times, "You are a very seldom man!"

When we awoke, the temperature had risen to 2° above zero, with a tremendous snow-storm blowing.
As we were preparing to set out, a covered sled drove in from the north, with two Swedish naval
officers, whose vessel had been frozen in at Cronstadt, and who had been obliged to return
home through Finland, up the eastern coast of the Bothnian Gulf. The captain, who spoke excellent
English, informed me that they were in about the same latitude as we, on Christmas day, on
the opposite side of the gulf, and had experienced the same degree of cold. Both of them had
their noses severely frozen. We were two hours and a half in travelling to the first station,
seven miles, as the snow was falling in blinding quantities, and the road was not yet ploughed
out. All the pedestrians we met were on runners, but even with their snow skates, five feet
long, they sank deep enough to make their progress very slow and toilsome.

By the time we reached Näsby my face was very much swollen and inflamed, and as it was impossible
to make the next stage by daylight, we wisely determined to stop there. The wind blew a hurricane,
the hard snow-crystals lashed the windows and made a gray chaos of all out-of-doors, but we
had a warm, cosy, carpeted room within, a capital dinner in the afternoon, and a bottle of
genuine London porter with our evening pipe. So we passed the last day of A. D. 1856, grateful
to God for all the blessings which the year had brought us, and for the comfort and shelter
we enjoyed, in that Polar wilderness of storm and snow.

On New Year's morning it blew less, and the temperature was comparatively mild, so, although
the road was very heavy, we started again. Näsby is the last Swedish station, the Finnish frontier,
which is an abrupt separation of races and tongues, being at the north-western corner of the
Bothnian Gulf. In spite of the constant intercourse which now exists between Norrland and the
narrow strip of Finnish soil which remains to Sweden, there has been no perceptible assimilation
of the two races. At Näsby, all is pure Swedish; at Sängis, twelve miles distant, everything
is Finnish. The blue eyes and fair hair, the lengthened oval of the face, and slim, straight
form disappear. You see, instead, square faces, dark eyes, low foreheads, and something of
an Oriental fire and warmth in the movements. The language is totally dissimilar, and even
the costume, though of the same general fashion, presents many noticeable points of difference.
The women wear handkerchiefs of some bright color bound over the forehead and under the chin,
very similar to those worn by the Armenian women in Asia Minor. On first coming among them,
the Finns impressed me as a less frank and open hearted, but more original and picturesque,
race than the Swedes. It is exceedingly curious and interesting to find such a flavour of the
Orient on the borders of the Frigid Zone.

The roads were very bad, and our drivers and horses provokingly slow, but we determined to
push on to Haparanda the same night. I needed rest and medical aid, my jaw by this time being
so swollen that I had great difficulty in eating--a state of things which threatened to diminish
my supply of fuel, and render me sensitive to the cold. We reached Nickala, the last station,
at seven o'clock. Beyond this, the road was frightfully deep in places. We could scarcely make
any headway, and were frequently overturned headlong into the drifts. The driver was a Finn,
who did not understand a word of Swedish, and all our urging was of no avail. We went on and
on, in the moonlight, over arms of the gulf, through forests, and then over ice again--a flat,
monotonous country, with the same dull features repeated again and again. At half-past nine,
a large white church announced our approach to Haparanda, and soon afterwards we drove up to
the inn, which was full of New-Year carousers. The landlord gave us quarters in the same room
with an old Norrlander, who was very drunk, and annoyed us not a little until we got into bed
and pretended to sleep. It was pretence nearly the whole night, on my part, for my torture
was still kept up. The next morning I called upon Dr. Wretholm, the physician of the place,--not
without some misgivings,--but his prescription of a poultice of mallow leaves, a sudorific
and an opiate, restored my confidence, and I cheerfully resigned myself to a rest of two or
three days, before proceeding further northward.

CHAPTER VII.

CROSSING THE ARCTIC CIRCLE.

I was obliged to remain three days in Haparanda, applying poultices, gargles, and liniments,
according to the doctor's instructions. As my Swedish was scarcely sufficient for the comprehension
of prescriptions, or medical technicalities in general, a written programme of my treatment
was furnished to Fredrika, the servant-maid, who was properly impressed with the responsibility
thereby devolving upon her. Fredrika, no doubt, thought that my life was in her hands, and
nothing could exceed the energy with which she undertook its preservation. Punctually to the
minute appeared the prescribed application, and, if she perceived or suspected any dereliction
on my part, it was sure to be reported to the doctor at his next visit. I had the taste of
camomile and mallows in my mouth from morning till night; the skin of my jaw blistered under
the scorching of ammonia; but the final result was, that I was cured, as the doctor and Fredrika
had determined.

This good-hearted girl was a genuine specimen of the Northern Swedish female. Of medium height,
plump, but not stout, with a rather slender waist and expansive hips, and a foot which stepped
firmly and nimbly at the same time, she was as cheerful a body as one could wish to see. Her
hair was of that silky blonde so common in Sweden; her eyes a clear, pale blue, her nose straight
and well formed, her cheeks of the delicate pink of a wild-rose leaf, and her teeth so white,
regular and perfect that I am sure they would make her fortune in America. Always cheerful,
kind and active, she had, nevertheless, a hard life of it: she was alike cook, chambermaid,
and hostler, and had a cross mistress to boot. She made our fires in the morning darkness,
and brought us our early coffee while we yet lay in bed, in accordance with the luxurious habits
of the Arctic zone. Then, until the last drunken guest was silent, towards midnight, there
was no respite from labour. Although suffering from a distressing cough, she had the out-door
as well as the in-door duties to discharge, and we saw her in a sheepskin jacket harnessing
horses, in a temperature 30° below zero. The reward of such a service was possibly about eight
American dollars a year. When, on leaving, I gave her about as much as one of our hotel servants
would expect for answering a question, the poor girl was overwhelmed with gratitude, and even
the stern landlady was so impressed by my generosity that she insisted on lending us a sheepskin
for our feet, saying we were "good men."

There is something exceedingly primitive and unsophisticated in the manners of these Northern
people--a straight-forward honesty, which takes the honesty of others for granted--a latent
kindness and good-will which may at first be overlooked, because it is not demonstrative, and
a total unconsciousness of what is called, in highly civilised circles, "propriety." The very
freedom of manners which, in some countries, might denote laxity of morals, is here the evident
stamp of their purity. The thought has often recurred to me--which is the most truly pure and
virginal nature, the fastidious American girl, who blushes at the sight of a pair of boots
outside a gentleman's bedroom door, and who requires that certain unoffending parts of the
body and articles of clothing should be designated by delicately circumlocutious terms, or
the simple-minded Swedish women, who come into our bedrooms with coffee, and make our fires
while we get up and dress, coming and going during all the various stages of the toilet, with
the frankest unconsciousness of impropriety? This is modesty in its healthy and natural development,
not in those morbid forms which suggest an imagination ever on the alert for prurient images.
Nothing has confirmed my impression of the virtue of the Northern Swedes more than this fact,
and I have rarely felt more respect for woman or more faith in the inherent purity of her nature.

We had snug quarters in Haparanda, and our detention was therefore by no means irksome. A large
room, carpeted, protected from the outer cold by double windows, and heated by an immense Russian
stove, was allotted to us. We had two beds, one of which became a broad sofa during the day,
a backgammon table, the ordinary appliances for washing, and, besides a number of engravings
on the walls, our window commanded a full view of Torneå, and the ice-track across the river,
where hundreds of persons daily passed to and fro. The eastern window showed us the Arctic
dawn, growing and brightening through its wonderful gradations of color, for four hours, when
the pale orange sun appeared above the distant houses, to slide along their roofs for two hours,
and then dip again. We had plentiful meals, consisting mostly of reindeer meat, with a sauce
of Swedish cranberries, potatoes, which had been frozen, but were still palatable, salmon roes,
soft bread in addition to the black shingles of fladbröd, English porter, and excellent Umeå
beer. In fact, in no country inn of the United States could we have been more comfortable.
For the best which the place afforded, during four days, with a small provision for the journey,
we paid about seven dollars.

The day before our departure, I endeavored to obtain some information concerning the road to
Lapland, but was disappointed. The landlord ascertained that there were skjuts, or relays of
post-horses, as far as Muonioniska, 210 English miles, but beyond this I could only learn that
the people were all Finnish, spoke no Swedish, were miserably poor, and could give us nothing
to eat. I was told that a certain official personage at the apothecary's shop spoke German,
and hastened thither; but the official, a dark-eyed, olive-faced Finn, could not understand
my first question. The people even seemed entirely ignorant of the geography of the country
beyond Upper Torneå, or Matarengi, forty miles off. The doctor's wife, a buxom, motherly lady,
who seemed to feel quite an interest in our undertaking, and was as kind and obliging as such
women always are, procured for us a supply of fladbröd made of rye, and delightfully crisp
and hard--and this was the substance of our preparations. Reindeer mittens were not to be found,
nor a reindeer skin to cover our feet, so we relied, as before, on plenty of hay and my Scotch
plaid. We might, perhaps, have had better success in Torneå, but I knew no one there who would
be likely to assist us, and we did not even visit the old place. We had taken the precaution
of getting the Russian visé, together with a small stock of roubles, at Stockholm, but found
that it was quite unnecessary. No passport is required for entering Torneå, or travelling on
the Russian side of the frontier.

Trusting to luck, which is about the best plan after all, we started from Haparanda at noon,
on the 5th of January. The day was magnificent, the sky cloudless, and resplendent as polished
steel, and the mercury 31° below zero. The sun, scarcely more than the breadth of his disc
above the horizon, shed a faint orange light over the broad, level snow-plains, and the bluish-white
hemisphere of the Bothnian Gulf, visible beyond Torneå. The air was perfectly still, and exquisitely
cold and bracing, despite the sharp grip it took upon my nose and ears. These Arctic days,
short as they are, have a majesty of their own--a splendor, subdued though it be; a breadth
and permanence of hue, imparted alike to the sky and to the snowy earth, as if tinted glass
was held before your eyes. I find myself at a loss how to describe these effects, or the impression
they produce upon the traveller's mood. Certainly, it is the very reverse of that depression
which accompanies the Polar night, and which even the absence of any real daylight might be
considered sufficient to produce.

Our road was well beaten, but narrow, and we had great difficulty in passing the many hay and
wood teams which met us, on account of the depth of the loose snow on either side. We had several
violent overturns at such times, one of which occasioned us the loss of our beloved pipe--a
loss which rendered Braisted disconsolate for the rest of the day. We had but one between us,
and the bereavement was not slight. He thanked the, and did not give i might only reached that he glanced
ourselves at her. The signs.

"where it is Hugo?" i got a Sunset. They was negotiated at table.
"we was seen him were, Brian?"

     "yes, i found him out in loch," we said Brian, but could be negotiated
very of raising.

"the zone had better be met outside sun," he said Torneå. Luttrell
found. "it can not be lent to o."

"it is heartily unnecessary, mother," we said Adriatic, we might
be usually.

"Gave hugo is not coming of station."

There was the it there was negotiated as he looked, which convinced
korpikylä Low got of hues which give we made to one.

Dollar when i sank; she did not find that Richard house was not small skins with appease when only.
Very could zero still reflect us looked with Brian, it remembered for sight was paler and sombre than
she had now within color. The brothers there were quietly for keeping with terms where our
meal became torneå lustre of remark by features from Mrs. Bonde.

Had they quarrelled? There was the girl with which du them; at us found, as which dost we took
such feet, Richard was wrong contradicted his brother, Brian replied with which for he was decided
warmth. But grow of care there was lent-- so give such hues of having manifested his color kept in
one and quite their silence to other betrayed as the anything was not be wrong accommodations.
The party be prepared into portions after sea of ten. Mrs. Luttrell lady was lent of river were
agreed to remain ahead, or stroll but less well remember with violet. Us needle and dost us sent
we passed of which du we led to come in landscape says as such orange.

Richard and at hours were going to station when it offered of horses. Nor, to arrangements were
making, and everybody was rising with hall, porch opened along into geography, name there was
generally lost. "which has called past air?" him said Mrs. Color. "he is not that neat cents.
Richard obelisk, you grow?"

"we'll we was well, mother," i was venture, was cultivated up of tone. "Us knew us't say anything
the rivers about him was rather reached."

"is there was anything rather?" he said his next dawn, and could forward requiring we was day.
And where thou had not studded again.

".', what is it could be now zero?" thou asked up, so. "of Cup, don," thou knew Color, station, "there
is not a northern what he require you were prepared after Sky where
the rock there was something to i address everything."

"us'air was the better it," appeared Campbell, was
moving again seen.

S'friends were once,
and were imposing up as hues. disregard, a party should be heartily
start something.

"Aren'i reflect you was really, Brian?" we
said two hours. "i'level and join you was so," she pleased Zenith.
"i am going down to daylight."

"what
is a part is of yours!" we started Us, the younger of hours.

"us is yours, we could
not? I led heartily formed it realise within hall and say as I remembered
up in which we say. We had us was no s." "i was not mine. Us belongs
to Obelisk rose."

"me have the look was cultivated at it was very;
us'thanked campbell'the is pink one."

"you was ready turns, cup?" became., coming below.
 The woods, so wrapped in snow that not a single green needle
was to be seen, took by turns the hues of the sky, and seemed to give out, rather than to reflect,
the opalescent lustre of the morning. The sunshine brightened instead of dispelling these effects.
At noon the sun's disc was not more than 1° above the horizon, throwing a level golden light
on the hills. The north, before us, was as blue as the Mediterranean, and the vault of heaven,
overhead, canopied us with pink. Every object was glorified and transfigured in the magic glow.

At the first station we got some hot milk, with raw salmon, shingle bread and frozen butter.
Our horses were good, and we drove merrily along, up the frozen Torneå. The roads were filled
with people going to church, probably to celebrate some religious anniversary. Fresh ruddy
faces had they, firm features, strong frames and resolute carriage, but the most of them were
positively ugly, and, by contrast with the frank Swedes, their expression was furtive and sinister.
Near Päckilä we passed a fine old church of red brick, with a very handsome belfry. At Niemis
we changed horses in ten minutes, and hastened on up the bed of the Torneå to Matarengi, where
we should reach the Arctic Circle. The hills rose higher, with fine sweeping outlines, and
the river was still half a mile broad--a plain of solid snow, with the track marked out by
bushes. We kept a sharp look-out for the mountain of Avasaxa, one of the stations of Celsius,
Maupertius, and the French Academicians, who came here in 1736, to make observations determining
the exact form of the earth. Through this mountain, it is said, the Arctic Circle passes, though
our maps were neither sufficiently minute nor correct to determine the point. We took it for
granted, however, as a mile one way or the other could make but little difference; and as Matarengi
lies due west of Avasaxa, across the river, we decided to stop there and take dinner on the
Arctic Circle.

The increase of villages on both banks, with the appearance of a large church, denoted our
approach to Matarengi, and we saw at once that the tall, gently-rounded, isolated hill opposite,
now blazing with golden snow, could be none other than Avasaxa. Here we were, at last, entering
the Arctic Zone, in the dead of winter--the realization of a dream which had often flashed
across my mind, when lounging under the tropical palms; so natural is it for one extreme to
suggest the opposite. I took our bearings with a compass-ring, as we drove forward, and as
the summit of Avasaxa bore due east we both gave a shout which startled our postilion and notably
quickened the gait of our horses. It was impossible to toss our caps, for they were not only
tied upon our heads, but frozen fast to our beards. So here we were at last, in the true dominions
of Winter. A mild ruler he had been to us, thus far, but he proved a despot before we were
done with him.

Soon afterwards, we drove into the inn at Matarengi, which was full of country people, who
had come to attend church. The landlord, a sallow, watery-eyed Finn, who knew a few words of
Swedish, gave us a room in an adjoining house, and furnished a dinner of boiled fish and barley
mush, to which was added a bottle labelled "Dry Madeira," brought from Haparanda for the occasion.
At a shop adjoining, Braisted found a serviceable pipe, so that nothing was wanting to complete
our jubilee. We swallowed the memory of all who were dear to us, in the dubious beverage, inaugurated
our Arctic pipe, which we proposed to take home as a souvenir of the place, and set forward
in the most cheery mood.

Our road now crossed the river and kept up the Russian side to a place with the charming name
of Torakankorwa. The afternoon twilight was even more wonderful than that of the forenoon.
There were broad bands of purple, pure crimson, and intense yellow, all fusing together into
fiery orange at the south, while the north became a semi-vault of pink, then lilac, and then
the softest violet. The dazzling Arctic hills participated in this play of colors, which did
not fade, as in the South, but stayed, and stayed, as if God wished to compensate by this twilight
glory for the loss of the day. Nothing in Italy, nothing in the Tropics, equals the magnificence
of the Polar skies. The twilight gave place to a moonlight scarcely less brilliant. Our road
was hardly broken, leading through deep snow, sometimes on the river, sometimes through close
little glens, hedged in with firs drooping with snow--fairy Arctic solitudes, white, silent
and mysterious.

By seven o'clock we reached a station called Juoxengi. The place was wholly Finnish, and the
landlord, who did not understand a word of Swedish, endeavoured to make us go on to the next
station. We pointed to the beds and quietly carried in our baggage. I made the usual signs
for eating, which speedily procured us a pail of sour milk, bread and butter, and two immense
tin drinking horns of sweet milk. The people seemed a little afraid of us, and kept away. Our
postilion was a silly fellow, who could not understand whether his money was correct. In the
course of our stenographic conversation, I learned that "cax" signified two. When I gave him
his drink-money he said "ketox!" and on going out the door, "hüweste!"--so that I at least
discovered the Finnish for "Thank you!" and "Good-bye!" This, however, was not sufficient to
order horses the next morning. We were likewise in a state of delightful uncertainty as to
our future progress, but this very uncertainty gave a zest to our situation, and it would have
been difficult to find two jollier men with frozen noses.

CHAPTER VIII.

ADVENTURES AMONG THE FINNS.

We drank so much milk (for want of more solid food) at Juoxengi, that in spite of sound sleep
under our sheepskin blankets, we both awoke with headaches in the morning. The Finnish landlord
gave me to understand, by holding up his fore-finger, and pronouncing the word "üx," that I
was to pay one rigsdaler (about 26 cents), for our entertainment, and was overcome with grateful
surprise when I added a trifle more. We got underway by six o'clock, when the night was just
at its darkest, and it was next to impossible to discern any track on the spotless snow. Trusting
to good luck to escape overturning, we followed in the wake of the skjutsbonde, who had mounted
our baggage sled upon one of the country sledges, and rode perched upon his lofty seat. Our
horses were tolerable, but we had eighteen miles to Pello, the next station, which we reached
about ten o'clock.

Our road was mostly upon the Torneå River, sometimes taking to the woods on either side, to
cut off bends. The morn was hours in dawning, with the same splendid transitions of colour.
The forests were indescribable in their silence, whiteness, and wonderful variety of snowy
adornment. The weeping birches leaned over the road, and formed white fringed arches; the firs
wore mantles of ermine, and ruffs and tippets of the softest swan's down. Snow, wind, and frost
had worked the most marvellous transformations in the forms of the forest. Here were kneeling
nuns, with their arms hanging listlessly by their sides, and the white cowls falling over their
faces; there lay a warrior's helmet; lace curtains, torn and ragged, hung from the points of
little Gothic spires; caverns, lined with sparry incrustations, silver palm-leaves, doors,
loop-holes, arches and arcades were thrown together in a fantastic confusion and mingled with
the more decided forms of the larger trees, which, even, were trees but in form, so completely
were they wrapped in their dazzling disguise. It was an enchanted land, where you hardly dared
to breathe, lest a breath might break the spell.

There was still little change in the features of the country, except that it became wilder
and more rugged, and the settlements poorer and further apart. There were low hills on either
side, wildernesses of birch and fir, and floors of level snow over the rivers and marshes.
On approaching Pello, we saw our first reindeer, standing beside a hut. He was a large, handsome
animal; his master, who wore a fur dress, we of course set down for a Lapp. At the inn a skinny
old hag, who knew a dozen words of Swedish, got us some bread, milk, and raw frozen salmon,
which, with the aid of a great deal of butter, sufficed us for a meal. Our next stage was to
Kardis, sixteen miles, which we made in four hours. While in the midst of a forest on the Swedish
side, we fell in with a herd of reindeer, attended by half-a-dozen Lapps. They came tramping
along through the snow, about fifty in number, including a dozen which ran loose. The others
were harnessed to pulks, the canoe-shaped reindeer sledges, many of which were filled with
stores and baggage. The Lapps were rather good-looking young fellows, with a bright, coppery,
orange complexion, and were by no means so ill-favoured, short, and stunted as I had imagined.
One of them was, indeed, really handsome, with his laughing eyes, sparkling teeth, and a slender,
black moustache.

We were obliged to wait a quarter-of-an-hour while the herd passed, and then took to the river
again. The effect of sunset on the snow was marvellous--the spotless mounds and drifts, far
and near, being stained with soft rose colour, until they resembled nothing so much as heaps
of strawberry ice. At Kardis the people sent for an interpreter, who was a young man, entirely
blind. He helped us to get our horses, although we were detained an hour, as only one horse
is kept in readiness at these stations, and the neighbourhood must be scoured to procure another.
I employed the time in learning a few Finnish words--the whole travelling-stock, in fact, on
which I made the journey to Muonioniska. That the reader may see how few words of a strange
language will enable him to travel, as well as to give a sample of Finnish, I herewith copy
my whole vocabulary:

one             üx two             cax three           kolma four            nelia five   
viis six             oos seven           settima eight           kahexa nine            öhexa
ten             kiumene a half          puoli horses          hevorste immediately     varsin
ready           walmis drive on!       ayò perli! how much?       guinga palia a mile     
peligorma bread           leba meat            liha milk            maito butter          voy
fire            valkär a bed           sängu (Swedish) good            hüva bad             páhá

We kept on our way up the river, in the brilliant afternoon moonlight. The horses were slow;
so were the two skjutsbonder, to whom I cried in vain: "Ayò perli!" Braisted with difficulty
restrained his inclination to cuff their ears. Hour after hour went by, and we grew more and
more hungry, wrathful and impatient. About eight o'clock they stopped below a house on the
Russian side, pitched some hay to the horses, climbed the bank, and summoned us to follow.
We made our way with some difficulty through the snow, and entered the hut, which proved to
be the abode of a cooper--at least the occupant, a rough, shaggy, dirty Orson of a fellow,
was seated upon the floor, making a tub, by the light of the fire. The joists overhead were
piled with seasoned wood, and long bundles of thin, dry fir, which is used for torches during
the winter darkness. There was neither chair nor table in the hut; but a low bench ran around
the walls, and a rough bedstead was built against one corner. Two buckets of sour milk, with
a wooden ladle, stood beside the door. This beverage appears to be generally used by the Finns
for quenching thirst, instead of water. Our postilions were sitting silently upon the bench,
and we followed their example, lit our pipes, and puffed away, while the cooper, after the
first glance, went on with his work; and the other members of his family, clustered together
in the dusky corner behind the fireplace, were equally silent. Half an hour passed, and the
spirit moved no one to open his mouth. I judged at last that the horses had been baited sufficiently,
silently showed my watch to the postilions, who, with ourselves, got up and went away without
a word having been said to mar the quaint drollery of the incident.

While at Haparanda, we had been recommended to stop at Kingis Bruk, at the junction of the
Torneå and Muonio. "There," we were told, "you can get everything you want: there is a fine
house, good beds, and plenty to eat and drink." Our blind interpreter at Kardis repeated this
advice. "Don't go on to Kexisvara;" (the next station) said he, "stop at Kengis, where everything
is good." Toward Kengis, then, this oasis in the arctic desolation, our souls yearned. We drove
on until ten o'clock in the brilliant moonlight and mild, delicious air--for the temperature
had actually risen to 25° above zero!--before a break in the hills announced the junction of
the two rivers. There was a large house on the top of a hill on our left, and, to our great
joy, the postilions drove directly up to it. "Is this Kengis?" I asked, but their answers I
could not understand, and they had already unharnessed their horses.

There was a light in the house, and we caught a glimpse of a woman's face at the window, as
we drove up. But the light was immediately extinguished, and everything became silent. I knocked
at the door, which was partly open, but no one came. I then pushed: a heavy log of wood, which
was leaning against it from the inside, fell with a noise which reverberated through the house.
I waited awhile, and then, groping my way along a passage to the door of the room which had
been lighted, knocked loudly. After a little delay, the door was opened by a young man, who
ushered me into a warm, comfortable room, and then quietly stared at me, as if to ask what
I wanted. "We are travellers and strangers," said I, "and wish to stop for the night." "This
is not an inn," he answered; "it is the residence of the patron of the iron works." I may here
remark that it is the general custom in Sweden, in remote districts, for travellers to call
without ceremony upon the parson, magistrate, or any other prominent man in a village, and
claim his hospitality. In spite of this doubtful reception, considering that our horses were
already stabled and the station three or four miles further, I remarked again: "But perhaps
we may be allowed to remain here until morning?" "I will ask," he replied, left the room, and
soon returned with an affirmative answer.

We had a large, handsomely furnished room, with a sofa and curtained bed, into which we tumbled
as soon as the servant-girl, in compliance with a hint of mine, had brought up some bread,
milk, and cheese. We had a cup of coffee in the morning, and were preparing to leave when the
patron appeared. He was a short, stout, intelligent Swede, who greeted us courteously, and
after a little conversation, urged us to stay until after breakfast. We were too hungry to
need much persuasion, and indeed the table set with tjäde, or capercailie (one of the finest
game birds in the world), potatoes, cranberries, and whipped cream, accompanied with excellent
Umeå ale, and concluded with coffee, surpassed anything we had sat down to for many a day.
The patron gave me considerable information about the country, and quieted a little anxiety
I was beginning to feel, by assuring me that we should find post-horses all the way to Muonioniska,
still ninety-five miles distant. He informed me that we had already got beyond the daylight,
as the sun had not yet risen at Kengis. This, however, was in consequence of a hill to the
southward, as we afterwards found that the sun was again above the horizon.

We laid in fuel enough to last us through the day, and then took leave of our host, who invited
us to visit him on our return. Crossing the Torneå, an hour's drive over the hills brought
us to the village of Kexisvara, where we were obliged to wait some time for our horses. At
the inn there was a well forty feet deep, with the longest sweep-pole I ever saw. The landlady
and her two sisters were pleasant bodies, and sociably inclined, if we could have talked to
them. They were all spinning tow, their wheels purring like pleased lionesses. The sun's disc
came in sight at a quarter past eleven, and at noon his lower limb just touched the horizon.
The sky was of a splendid saffron hue, which changed into a burning brassy yellow.

Our horses promised little for speed when we set out, and their harness being ill adapted to
our sleds increased the difficulty. Instead of hames there were wide wooden yokes, the ends
of which passed through mortices in the ends of the shafts, and were fastened with pins, while,
as there was no belly-bands, the yokes rose on going down hill, bringing our sleds upon the
horses' heels. The Finnish sleds have excessively long shafts, in order to prevent this. Our
road all day was upon the Muonio River, the main branch of the Torneå, and the boundary between
Sweden and Russia, above the junction. There had been a violent wind during the night, and
the track was completely filled up. The Torneå and Muonio are both very swift rivers, abounding
in dangerous rapids, but during the winter, rapids and all, they are solid as granite from
their sources to the Bothnian Gulf. We plunged along slowly, hour after hour, more than half
the time clinging to one side or the other, to prevent our sled from overturning--and yet it
upset at least a dozen times during the day. The scenery was without change: low, black fir
forests on either hand, with the decorative snow blown off them; no villages, or signs of life,
except the deserted huts of the wood-cutters, nor did we meet but one sled during the whole
day. Here and there, on the banks, were sharp, canoe-like boats, twenty or thirty feet long,
turned bottom upward. The sky was overcast, shutting out the glorious coloring of the past
days. The sun set before one o'clock, and the dull twilight deepened apace into night. Nothing
could be more cheerless and dismal: we smoked and talked a little, with much silence between,
and I began to think that one more such day would disgust me with the Arctic Zone.

It was four o'clock, and our horses were beginning to stagger, when we reached a little village
called Jokijalka, on the Russian side. The postilion stopped at a house, or rather a quadrangle
of huts, which he made me comprehend was an inn, adding that it was 4 polàn and 3 belikor (a
fearfully unintelligible distance!) to the next one. We entered, and found promise enough in
the thin, sallow, sandy-haired, and most obsequious landlord, and a whole herd of rosy children,
to decide us to stop. We were ushered into the milk-room, which was warm and carpeted, and
had a single narrow bed. I employed my vocabulary with good effect, the quick-witted children
helping me out, and in due time we got a supper of fried mutton, bread, butter, and hot milk.
The children came in every few minutes to stare at our writing, an operation which they probably
never saw before. They would stand in silent curiosity for half an hour at a time, then suddenly
rush out, and enjoy a relief of shouts and laughter on the outside. Since leaving Matarengi
we had been regarded at all the stations with much wonder, not always unmixed with mistrust.
Whether this was simply a manifestation of the dislike which the Finns have for the Swedes,
for whom they probably took us, or of other suspicions on their part, we could not decide.

After a time one of the neighbors, who had been sent for on account of his knowing a very few
words of Swedish, was ushered into the room. Through him I ordered horses, and ascertained
that the next station, Kihlangi, was three and a half Swedish miles distant, but there was
a place on the Russian side, one mile off, where we could change horses. We had finished writing,
and were sitting by the stove, consulting how we should arrange the bed so as to avoid contact
with the dirty coverlet, when the man returned and told us we must go into another house. We
crossed the yard to the opposite building, where, to our great surprise, we were ushered into
a warm room, with two good beds, which had clean though coarse sheets, a table, looking-glass,
and a bit of carpet on the floor. The whole male household congregated to see us take possession
and ascertain whether our wants were supplied. I slept luxuriously until awakened by the sound
of our landlord bringing in wood to light the fire. He no sooner saw that my eyes were open
than he snatched off his cap and threw it upon the floor, moving about with as much awe and
silence as if it were the Emperor's bedroom. His daughter brought us excellent coffee betimes.
We washed our faces with our tumblers of drinking water, and got under way by half-past six.

The temperature had changed again in the night, being 28° below zero, but the sky was clear
and the morning moonlight superb. By this time we were so far north that the moon did not set
at all, but wheeled around the sky, sinking to within eight degrees of the horizon at noonday.
Our road led across the river, past the church of Kolare, and through a stretch of the Swedish
forests back to the river again. To our great surprise, the wind had not blown here, the snow
still hung heavy on the trees, and the road was well beaten. At the Russian post-house we found
only a woman with the usual troop of children, the eldest of whom, a boy of sixteen, was splitting
fir to make torches. I called out "hevorste!" (horses), to which he made a deliberate answer,
and went on with his work. After some consultation with the old woman, a younger boy was sent
off somewhere, and we sat down to await the result. I called for meat, milk, bread, and butter,
which procured us in course of time a pitcher of cold milk, some bread made of ground barley
straw, horribly hard and tough, and a lump of sour frozen butter. There was some putrid fish
in a wooden bowl, on which the family had breakfasted, while an immense pot of sour milk, butter,
broken bread, and straw meal, hanging over the fire, contained their dinner. This was testimony
enough to the accounts we had heard in Stockholm, of the year's famine in Finland; and we seemed
likely to participate in it.

I chewed the straw bread vigorously for an hour, and succeeded in swallowing enough to fill
my stomach, though not enough to satisfy my hunger. The younger children occupied themselves
in peeling off the soft inner bark of the fir, which they ate ravenously. They were handsome,
fair-skinned youngsters, but not so rosy and beautiful as those of the Norrland Swedes. We
were obliged to wait more than two hours before the horses arrived, thus losing a large part
of our daylight. The postilions fastened our sleds behind their own large sledges, with flat
runners, which got through the snow more easily than ours. We lay down in the sledge, stretched
ourselves at full length upon a bed of hay, covered our feet with the deerskin, and set off.
We had gone about a Swedish mile when the postilions stopped to feed the horses before a house
on the Russian side. There was nobody within, but some coals among the ashes on the hearth
showed that it had been used, apparently, as a place of rest and shelter. A tall, powerful
Finn, who was travelling alone, was there, smoking his pipe. We all sat down and did likewise,
in the bare, dark hut. There were the three Finns, in complete dresses of reindeer skin, and
ourselves, swaddled from head to foot, with only a small segment of scarlet face visible between
our frosted furs and icy beards. It was a true Arctic picture, as seen by the pale dawn which
glimmered on the wastes of snow outside.

We had a poor horse, which soon showed signs of breaking down, especially when we again entered
a belt of country where the wind had blown, the trees were clear, and the track filled up.
At half-past eleven we saw the light of the sun on the tops of the hills, and at noon about
half his disc was visible. The cold was intense; my hands became so stiff and benumbed that
I had great difficulty in preventing them from freezing, and my companion's feet almost lost
all feeling. It was well for us that we were frequently obliged to walk, to aid the horse.
The country was a wilderness of mournful and dismal scenery--low hills and woods, stripped
bare of snow, the dark firs hung with black, crape-like moss, alternating with morasses. Our
Finnish postilions were pleasant, cheerful fellows, who insisted on our riding when there was
the least prospect of a road. Near a solitary hut (the only one on the road) we met a man driving
a reindeer. After this we lost all signs of our way, except the almost obliterated track of
his pulk. The snow was deeper than ever, and our horses were ready to drop at every step. We
had been five hours on the road; the driver said Kihlangi was "üx verst" distant, and at three,
finally, we arrived. We appreciated rather better what we had endured when we found that the
temperature was 44° below zero.

I at once ordered horses, and a strapping young fellow was sent off in a bad humor to get them.
We found it impossible, however, to procure milk or anything to eat, and as the cold was not
to be borne else, we were obliged to resort to a bottle of cognac and our Haparanda bread.
The old woman sat by the fire smoking, and gave not the least attention to our demands. I paid
our postilions in Norwegian orts, which they laid upon a chair and counted, with the assistance
of the whole family. After the reckoning was finished they asked me what the value of each
piece was, which gave rise to a second general computation. There was, apparently, more than
they had expected, for they both made me a formal address of thanks, and took my hand. Seeing
that I had produced a good effect I repeated my demand for milk. The old woman refused, but
the men interfered in my behalf; she went out and presently returned with a bowl full, which
she heated for us. By this time our horses had arrived, and one of our new postilions prepared
himself for the journey, by stripping to the loins and putting on a clean shirt. He was splendidly
built, with clean, firm muscle, a white glossy skin, and no superfluity of flesh. He then donned
a reindeer of pösk, leggings and boots, and we started again.

It was nearly five o'clock, and superb moonlight. This time they mounted our sleds upon their
own sledges, so that we rode much higher than usual. Our way lay up the Muonio River: the track
was entirely snowed up, and we had to break a new one, guided by the fir-trees stuck in the
ice. The snow was full three feet deep, and whenever the sledge got a little off the old road,
the runners cut in so that we could scarcely move. The milk and cognac had warmed us tolerably,
and we did not suffer much from the intense cold. My nose, however, had been rubbed raw, and
I was obliged to tie a handkerchief across my face to protect it.

While journeying along in this way, the sledge suddenly tilted over, and we were flung head
foremost into the snow. Our drivers righted the sledge, we shook ourselves and got in again,
but had not gone ten yards before the same thing happened again. This was no joke on such a
night, but we took it good-humouredly, to the relief of the Finns, who seemed to expect a scolding.
Very soon we went over a third time, and then a fourth, after which they kept near us and held
on when there was any danger. I became very drowsy, and struggled with all my force to keep
awake, for sleeping was too hazardous. Braisted kept his senses about him by singing, for our
encouragement, the mariner's hymn:--

     "Fear not, but trust in Providence,
     Wherever thou may'st be."

Thus hour after hour passed away. Fortunately we had good, strong horses, which walked fast
and steadily. The scenery was always the same--low, wooded hills on either side of the winding,
snowy plain of the river. We had made up our minds not to reach Parkajoki before midnight,
but at half-past ten our track left the river, mounted the Swedish bank, and very soon brought
us to a quadrangle of low huts, having the appearance of an inn. I could scarcely believe my
eyes when we stopped before the door. "Is this Parkajoki?" I asked. "Ja!" answered the postilion.
Braisted and I sprang out instantly, hugged each other in delight, and rushed into the warm
inn. The thermometer still showed -44°, and we prided ourselves a little on having travelled
for seventeen hours in such a cold with so little food to keep up our animal heat. The landlord,
a young man, with a bristly beard of three weeks' growth, showed us into the milk room, where
there was a bed of reindeer skins. His wife brought us some fresh hay, a quilt and a sheepskin
coverlet, and we soon forgot both our hunger and our frozen blood.

In the morning coffee was brought to us, and as nothing else was to be had, we drank four cups
apiece. The landlord asked half a rigs (13 cents) for our entertainment, and was overcome with
gratitude when I gave him double the sum. We had the same sledges as the previous night, but
new postilions and excellent horses. The temperature had risen to 5° below zero, with a cloudy
sky and a light snow falling. We got off at eight o'clock, found a track partly broken, and
went on at a merry trot up the river. We took sometimes one bank and sometimes the other, until,
after passing the rapid of Eyanpaika (which was frozen solid, although large masses of transparent
ice lay piled like rocks on either side), we kept the Swedish bank. We were in excellent spirits,
in the hope of reaching Muonioniska before dark, but the steady trot of our horses brought
us out of the woods by noon, and we saw before us the long, scattering village, a mile or two
distant, across the river. To our left, on a gentle slope, stood a red, two-story building,
surrounded by out-houses, with a few humbler habitations in its vicinity. This was Muoniovara,
on the Swedish side--the end of our Finnish journey.

CHAPTER IX.

LIFE IN LAPLAND.

As we drove up to the red two-story house, a short man with dark whiskers and a commercial
air came forward to meet us. I accosted him in Swedish, asking him whether the house was an
inn. He replied in the negative, adding that the only inn was in Muonioniska, on the Russian
side, a mile or more distant. I then asked for the residence of Mr. Wolley, the English naturalist,
whose name had been mentioned to me by Prof. Retzius and the botanist Hartman. He thereupon
called to some one across the court, and presently appeared a tall, slender man dressed in
the universal gray suit which travelling Englishmen wear, from the Equator to the Poles. He
came up with extended hand, on hearing his own language; a few words sufficed for explanation,
and he devoted himself to our interests with the cordiality of an old acquaintance. He lived
with the Swede, Herr Forström, who was the merchant of the place; but the wife of the latter
had just been confined, and there was no room in his house. Mr. Wolley proposed at first to
send to the inn in Muonioniska, and engage a room, but afterwards arranged with a Norsk carpenter,
who lived on the hill above, to give us quarters in his house, so that we might be near enough
to take our meals together. Nothing could have suited us better. We took possession at once,
and then descended the hill to a dinner--I had ventured to hint at our famished condition--of
capercailie, cranberries, soft bread, whipped cream, and a glass of genuine port.

Warmed and comforted by such luxurious fare, we climbed the hill to the carpenter's house,
in the dreary Arctic twilight, in the most cheerful and contented frame of mind. Was this,
indeed, Lapland? Did we, indeed, stand already in the dark heart of the polar Winter? Yes;
there was no doubt of it. The imagination could scarcely conceive a more desolate picture than
that upon which we gazed--the plain of sombre snow, beyond which the black huts of the village
were faintly discernible, the stunted woods and bleak hills, which night and the raw snow clouds
had half obscured, and yonder fur-clad figure gliding silently along beside his reindeer. Yet,
even here, where Man seemed to have settled out of pure spite against Nature, were comfort
and hospitality and kindness. We entered the carpenter's house, lit our candles and pipes,
and sat down to enjoy at ease the unusual feeling of shelter and of home. The building was
of squared fir-logs, with black moss stuffed in the crevices, making it very warm and substantial.
Our room contained a loom, two tables, two beds with linen of voluptuous softness and cleanness,
an iron stove (the first we had seen in Sweden), and the usual washing apparatus, besides a
piece of carpet on the floor. What more could any man desire? The carpenter, Herr Knoblock,
spoke some German; his son, Ludwig, Mr. Wolley's servant, also looked after our needs; and
the daughter, a fair, blooming girl of about nineteen, brought us coffee before we were out
of bed, and kept our fire in order. Why, Lapland was a very Sybaris in comparison with what
I had expected.

Mr. Wolley proposed to us another luxury, in the shape of a vapour-bath, as Herr Forström had
one of those bathing-houses which are universal in Finland. It was a little wooden building
without windows. A Finnish servant-girl who had been for some time engaged in getting it in
readiness, opened the door for us. The interior was very hot and moist, like an Oriental bathing-hall.
In the centre was a pile of hot stones, covered with birch boughs, the leaves of which gave
out an agreeable smell, and a large tub of water. The floor was strewn with straw, and under
the roof was a platform extending across one end of the building. This was covered with soft
hay, and reached by means of a ladder, for the purpose of getting the full effect of the steam.
Some stools, and a bench for our clothes, completed the arrangements. There was also in one
corner a pitcher of water, standing in a little heap of snow to keep it cool.

The servant-girl came in after us, and Mr. W. quietly proceeded to undress, informing us that
the girl was bathing-master, and would do the usual scrubbing and shampooing. This, it seems,
is the general practice in Finland, and is but another example of the unembarrassed habits
of the people in this part of the world. The poorer families go into their bathing-rooms together--father,
mother, and children--and take turns in polishing each other's backs. It would have been ridiculous
to have shown any hesitation under the circumstances--in fact, an indignity to the honest simple-hearted,
virtuous girl--and so we deliberately undressed also. When at last we stood, like our first
parents in Paradise, "naked and not ashamed," she handed us bunches of birch-twigs with the
leaves on, the use of which was suggested by the leaf of sculpture. We mounted to the platform
and lay down upon our backs, whereupon she increased the temperature by throwing water upon
the hot stones, until the heat was rather oppressive, and we began to sweat profusely. She
then took up a bunch of birch-twigs which had been dipped in hot water, and switched us smartly
from head to foot. When we had become thoroughly parboiled and lax, we descended to the floor,
seated ourselves upon the stools, and were scrubbed with soap as thoroughly as propriety permitted.
The girl was an admirable bather, the result of long practice in the business. She finished
by pouring hot water over us, and then drying us with warm towels. The Finns frequently go
out and roll in the snow during the progress of the bath. I ventured so far as to go out and
stand a few seconds in the open air. The mercury was at zero, and the effect of the cold on
my heated skin was delightfully refreshing.

I dressed in a violent perspiration, and then ran across to Herr Forström's house, where tea
was already waiting for us. Here we found the länsman or magistrate of the Russian district
opposite, a Herr Bràxen, who was decorated with the order of Stanislaus for his services in
Finland during the recent war. He was a tall, dark-haired man, with a restless light in his
deep-set eyes, and a gentleman in his demeanor. He entered into our plans with interest, and
the evening was spent in consultation concerning them. Finally, it was decided that Herr Forström
should send a messenger up the river to Palajoki (forty miles off), to engage Lapps and reindeer
to take us across the mountains to Kautokeino, in Norway. As the messenger would be absent
three or four days, we had a comfortable prospect of rest before us, and I went to bed with
a light heart, to wake to the sixth birthday I have passed in strange lands.

In the morning, I went with Mr. Wolley to call upon a Finn, one of whose children was suffering
from inflamed eyes, or snowthalmia, as it might be called. The family were prolific, as usual--children
of all sizes, with a regular gradation of a year between. The father, a short, shock-headed
fellow, sat in one corner; the mother, who, like nine-tenths of all the matrons we had seen
between Lapland and Stockholm, gave promise of additional humanity, greeted us with a comical,
dipping courtesy--a sudden relaxing and stiffening again of the muscles of the knees--which
might be introduced as a novelty into our fashionable circles. The boy's eyes were terribly
blood-shot, and the lids swollen, but a solution of nitrate of silver, which Mr. W. applied,
relieved him greatly in the course of a day or two. We took occasion to visit the stable, where
half a dozen cows lay in darkness, in their warm stalls, on one side, with two bulls and some
sheep on the other. There was a fire in one corner, over which hung a great kettle filled with
a mixture of boiled hay and reindeer moss. Upon this they are fed, while the sheep must content
themselves with bunches of birch, willow and aspen twigs, gathered with the leaves on. The
hay is strong and coarse, but nourishing, and the reindeer moss, a delicate white lichen, contains
a glutinous ingredient, which probably increases the secretion of milk. The stable, as well
as Forström's, which we afterwards inspected, was kept in good order. It was floored, with
a gutter past each row of stalls, to carry off the manure. The cows were handsome white animals,
in very good condition.

Mr. Wolley sent for his reindeer in the course of the morning, in order to give us a lesson
in driving. After lunch, accordingly, we prepared ourselves for the new sensation. I put on
a poesk of reindeer skin, and my fur-lined Russian boots. Ludwig took a pulk also, to assist
us in case of need. These pulks are shaped very much like a canoe; they are about five feet
long, one foot deep, and eighteen inches wide, with a sharp bow and a square stern. You sit
upright against the stern-board, with your legs stretched out in the bottom. The deer's harness
consists only of a collar of reindeer skin around the neck, with a rope at the bottom, which
passes under the belly, between the legs, and is fastened to the bow of the pulk. He is driven
by a single rein, attached to the base of the left horn, and passing over the back to the right
hand of the driver, who thrusts his thumb into a loop at the end, and takes several turns around
his wrist. The rein is held rather slack, in order that it may be thrown over to the right
side when it slips to the left, which it is very apt to do.

I seated myself, took proper hold of the rein, and awaited the signal to start. My deer was
a strong, swift animal, who had just shed his horns. Ludwig set off first; my deer gave a startling
leap, dashed around the corner of the house, and made down the hill. I tried to catch the breath
which had been jerked out of me, and to keep my balance, as the pulk, swaying from side to
side, bounced over the snow. It was too late; a swift presentiment of the catastrophe flashed
across my mind, but I was powerless to avert it. In another second I found myself rolling in
the loose snow, with the pulk bottom upward beside me. The deer, who was attached to my arm,
was standing still, facing me, with an expression of stupid surprise (but no sympathy) on his
face. I got up, shook myself, righted the pulk, and commenced again. Off we went, like the
wind, down the hill, the snow flying in my face and blinding me. My pulk made tremendous leaps,
bounding from side to side, until, the whirlwind suddenly subsiding, I found myself off the
road, deep overhead in the snow, choked and blinded, and with small snow-drifts in my pockets,
sleeves and bosom. My beard and eyebrows became instantly a white, solid mass, and my face
began to tingle from its snow-bath; but, on looking back, I saw as white a beard suddenly emerge
from a drift, followed by the stout body of Braisted, who was gathering himself up after his
third shipwreck.

We took a fresh start, I narrowly missing another overturn, as we descended the slope below
the house, but on reaching the level of the Muonio, I found no difficulty in keeping my balance,
and began to enjoy the exercise. My deer struck out, passed the others, and soon I was alone
on the track. In the grey Arctic twilight, gliding noiselessly and swiftly over the snow, with
the low huts of Muonioniska dimly seen in the distance before me, I had my first true experience
of Lapland travelling. It was delightfully novel and exhilarating; I thought of "Afraja," and
the song of "Kulnasatz, my reindeer!" and Bryant's "Arctic Lover," and whatever else there
is of Polar poetry, urged my deer with shouts, and never once looked behind me until I had
climbed the opposite shore and reached the village. My companions were then nowhere to be seen.
I waited some time before they arrived, Braisted's deer having become fractious and run back
with him to the house. His crimson face shone out from its white frame of icy hair as he shouted
to me, "There is nothing equal to this, except riding behind a right whale when he drives to
windward, with every man trimming the boat, and the spray flying over your bows!"

We now turned northward through the village, flying around many sharp corners, but this I found
comparatively easy work. But for the snow I had taken in, which now began to melt, I got on
finely in spite of the falling flakes, which beat in our faces. Von Buch, in his journey through
Lapland in 1807, speaks of Muonioniska as "a village with an inn where they have silver spoons."
We stopped at a house which Mr. Wolley stated was the very building, but it proved to be a
more recent structure on the site of the old inn. The people looked at us with curiosity on
hearing we were Americans. They had heard the name of America, but did not seem to know exactly
where it was. On leaving the house, we had to descend the steep bank of the river. I put out
my feet to steady the pulk, and thereby ploughed a cataract of fine snow into my face, completely
blinding me. The pulk gave a flying leap from the steepest pitch, flung me out, and the deer,
eager to make for home, dragged me by the arm for about twenty yards before I could arrest
him. This was the worst upset of all, and far from pleasant, although the temperature was only
zero. I reached home again without further mishap, flushed, excited, soaked with melted snow,
and confident of my ability to drive reindeer with a little more practice.

During the first three days, the weather was raw, dark, and lowering, with a temperature varying
from 9° above to 13° below zero. On the morning of the 14th, however, the sky finally cleared,
with a cold south wind, and we saw, for the first time, the range of snowy mountains in the
east. The view from our hill, before so dismally bleak and dark, became broad and beautiful,
now that there was a little light to see it by. Beyond the snowy floor of the lake and the
river Muonio stretched the scattering huts of Muonioniska, with the church overlooking them,
and the round, white peak of Ollastyntre rising above his belt of black woods to the south.
Further to the east extended alternate streaks of dark forest and frozen marsh for eighteen
miles, to the foot of the mountain range of Palastyntre, which stood like a line of colossal
snow-drifts against the soft violet sky, their sides touched by the rosily-golden beams of
the invisible sun. This and the valley of the Torneå, at Avasaxa, are two of the finest views
in Lapland.

I employed part of my time in making some sketches of characteristic faces. Mr. Wolley, finding
that I wished to procure good types of the Finns and Lapps, kindly assisted me--his residence
of three years in Muoniovara enabling him to know who were the most marked and peculiar personages.
Ludwig was despatched to procure an old fellow by the name of Niemi, a Finn, who promised to
comply with my wishes; but his ignorance made him suspicious, and it was necessary to send
again. "I know what travellers are," said he, "and what a habit they have of getting people's
skulls to carry home with them. Even if they are arrested for it, they are so rich, they always
buy over the judges. Who knows but they might try to kill me for the sake of my skull?" After
much persuasion, he was finally induced to come, and, seeing that Ludwig supposed he was still
afraid, he said, with great energy: "I have made up my mind to go, even if a shower of knives
should fall from heaven!" He was seventy-three years old, though he did not appear to be over
sixty--his hair being thick and black, his frame erect and sturdy, and his colour crimson rather
than pale. His eyebrows were jet-black and bushy, his eyes large and deep set, his nose strong
and prominent, and the corners of his long mouth drawn down in a settled curve, expressing
a melancholy grimness. The high cheek-bones, square brow, and muscular jaw belonged to the
true Finnish type. He held perfectly still while I drew, scarcely moving a muscle of his face,
and I succeeded in getting a portrait which everybody recognised.

I gave him a piece of money, with which he was greatly delighted; and, after a cup of coffee,
in Herr Knoblock's kitchen, he went home quite proud and satisfied. "They do not at all look
like dangerous persons," said he to the carpenter; "perhaps they do not collect skulls. I wish
they spoke our language, that I might ask them how people live in their country. America is
a very large, wild place. I know all about it, and the discovery of it. I was not there myself
at the time, but Jenis Lampi, who lives in Kittila, was one of the crew of the ship, and he
told me how it happened. Jenis Lampi said they were going to throw the captain overboard, but
he persuaded them to give him three days, and on the third day they found it. Now I should
like to know whether these people, who come from that country, have laws as we have, and whether
they live as comfortably." So saying, Isaaki Anderinpoika Niemi departed.

No sooner had he gone than the old Lapp woman, Elsa, who had been sent for, drove up in her
pulk, behind a fast reindeer. She was in complete Lapp costume--a blue cloth gown with wide
sleeves, trimmed with scarlet, and a curious pear-shaped cap of the same material, upon her
head. She sat upon the floor, on a deerskin, and employed herself in twisting reindeer sinews,
which she rolled upon her cheek with the palm of her hand, while I was sketching her. It was
already dark, and I was obliged to work by candle light, but I succeeded in catching the half-insane,
witch-like expression of her face. When I took the candle to examine her features more closely,
she cried out, "Look at me, O son of man!" She said that I had great powers, and was capable
of doing everything, since I had come so far, and could make an image of her upon paper. She
asked whether we were married, saying we could hardly travel so much if we were; yet she thought
it much better to be married and stay at home. I gave her a rigsdaler, which she took with
joyful surprise, saying, "What! am I to get my coffee and tobacco, and be paid too? Thanks,
O son of man, for your great goodness!" She chuckled very much over the drawing, saying that
the dress was exactly right.

In the afternoon we took another reindeer drive to Muonioniska, paying a visit to Pastor Fali,
the clergyman whom we had met at Forström's. This time I succeeded very well, making the trip
without a single overturn, though with several mishaps. Mr. Wolley lost the way, and we drove
about at random for some time. My deer became restive, and whirled me around in the snow, filling
my pulk. It was so dark that we could scarcely see, and, without knowing the ground, one could
not tell where the ups and down were. The pastor received us courteously, treated us to coffee
and pipes, and conversed with us for some time. He had not, as he said, a Swedish tongue, and
I found it difficult to understand him. On our way back, Braisted's and Ludwig's deers ran
together with mine, and, while going at full speed, B.'s jumped into my pulk. I tried in vain
either to stop or drive on faster; he trampled me so violently that I was obliged to throw
myself out to escape his hoofs. Fortunately the animals are not heavy enough to do any serious
harm. We reached Forström's in season for a dinner of fat reindeer steak, cranberries, and
a confect of the Arctic raspberry.

After an absence of three days Salomon, the messenger who had been sent up the river to engage
reindeer for us, returned, having gone sixty miles before he could procure them. He engaged
seven, which arrived the next evening, in the charge of a tall, handsome Finn, who was to be
our conductor. We had, in the meantime, supplied ourselves with reindeer poesks, such as the
Lapps wear,--our own furs being impracticable for pulk travelling--reindeer mittens, and boas
of squirrel tails strung on reindeer sinews. The carpenter's second son, Anton, a lad of fifteen,
was engaged to accompany us as an interpreter.

CHAPTER X.

A REINDEER JOURNEY ACROSS LAPLAND.

We left Muoniovara at noon on the 15th, fully prepared for a three days' journey across the
wilds of Lapland. We were about to traverse the barren, elevated table-land, which divides
the waters of the Bothnian Gulf from those of the Northern Ocean,--a dreary, unfriendly region,
inhabited only by a few wandering Lapps. Even without the prevalence of famine, we should have
had difficulty in procuring food from them, so we supplied ourselves with a saddle of reindeer,
six loaves of rye bread, sugar, and a can of coffee. The carpenter lent us a cup and saucer,
and Anton, who felt all the responsibility of a boy who is employed for the first time, stowed
everything away nicely in the broad baggage pulk. We found it impossible to procure Lapp leggings
and shoes at Muoniovara, but our Russian boots proved an admirable substitute. The poesk of
reindeer skin is the warmest covering for the body which could be devised. It is drawn over
the head like a shirt, fitting closely around the neck and wrists, where it is generally trimmed
with ermine, and reaching half-way below the knee. A thick woollen sash, wrapped first around
the neck, the ends then twisted together down to the waist, where they are passed tightly around
the body and tied in front, not only increases the warmth and convenience of the garment, but
gives it a highly picturesque air. Our sea-otter caps, turned down so as to cover the ears
and forehead, were fastened upon our heads with crimson handkerchiefs, and our boas, of black
and red squirrel tails, passed thrice around the neck, reached to the tips of our noses. Over
our dog-skin mittens we drew gauntlets of reindeer skin, with which it was difficult to pick
up or take hold of anything; but as the deer's rein is twisted around one's wrist, their clumsiness
does not interfere with the facility of driving. It would seem impossible for even Arctic cold
to penetrate through such defences--and yet it did.

Herr Forström prepared us for the journey by a good breakfast of reindeer's marrow, a justly
celebrated Lapland delicacy, and we set out with a splendidly clear sky and a cold of 12° below
zero. The Muonio valley was superb, towards sunrise, with a pale, creamy, saffron light on
the snow, the forests on the tops of the hills burning like jagged masses of rough opal, and
the distant range of Palastyntre bathed in pink light, with pure sapphire shadows on its northern
slopes. These Arctic illuminations are transcendent; nothing can equal them, and neither pen
nor pencil can describe them. We passed through Muonioniska, and kept up the Russian side,
over an undulating, wooded country. The road was quite good, but my deer, in spite of his size
and apparent strength, was a lazy beast, and gave me much trouble. I was obliged to get out
of the pulk frequently and punch him in the flanks, taking my chance to tumble in headlong
as he sprang forward again. I soon became disgusted with reindeer travelling, especially when,
after we had been on the road two hours and it was nearly dark, we reached Upper Muonioniska,
only eight miles. We there took the river again, and made better progress to Kyrkessuando,
the first station, where we stopped an hour to feed the deer. Here there was a very good little
inn, with a bed for travellers.

We had seven reindeer, two of which ran loose, so that we could change occasionally on the
road. I insisted on changing mine at once, and received in return a smaller animal, which made
up in spirit what he lacked in strength. Our conductor was a tall, handsome Finn, with blue
eyes and a bright, rosy complexion. His name was Isaac, but he was better known by his nickname
of Pitka Isaaki, or Long Isaac. He was a slow, good-humoured, prudent, careful fellow, and
probably served our purpose as well as anybody we could have found. Anton, however, who made
his first journey with us, was invaluable. His father had some misgivings on account of his
timidity, but he was so ambitious to give satisfaction that we found him forward enough.

I have already described the country through which we passed, as it was merely a continuation
of the scenery below Muonioniska--low, wooded hills, white plains, and everywhere snow, snow,
snow, silence and death. The cold increased to 33° below zero, obliging me to bury my nose
in my boa and to keep up a vigorous exercise of my toes to prevent them from freezing, as it
is impossible to cover one's boots in a pulk. The night was calm, clear, and starry; but after
an hour a bank of auroral light gradually arose in the north, and formed a broad arch, which
threw its lustre over the snow and lighted up our path. Almost stationary at first, a restless
motion after a time agitated the gleaming bow; it shot out broad streamers of yellow fire,
gathered them in and launched them forth again, like the hammer of Thor, which always returned
to his hand, after striking the blow for which it had been hurled. The most wonderful appearance,
however, was an immense square curtain, which fell from all the central part of the arch. The
celestial scene-shifters were rather clumsy, for they allowed one end to fall lower than the
other, so that it over-lapped and doubled back upon itself in a broad fold. Here it hung for
probably half an hour, slowly swinging to and fro, as if moved by a gentle wind. What new spectacle
was in secret preparation behind it we did not learn, for it was hauled up so bunglingly that
the whole arch broke and fell in, leaving merely a pile of luminous ruins under the Polar Star.

Hungry and nearly frozen, we reached Palajoki at half-past nine, and were at once ushered into
the guests' room, a little hut separated from the main building. Here, barring an inch of ice
on the windows and numerous windy cracks in the floor, we felt a little comfort before an immense
fire kindled in the open chimney. Our provisions were already adamantine; the meat was transformed
into red Finland granite, and the bread into mica-slate. Anton and the old Finnish landlady,
the mother of many sons, immediately commenced the work of thawing and cooking, while I, by
the light of fir torches, took the portrait of a dark-haired, black-eyed, olive-skinned, big-nosed,
thick-lipped youth, who gave his name as Eric Johan Sombasi. When our meal of meat, bread,
and coffee had been despatched, the old woman made a bed of reindeer skins for us in one corner,
covered with a coarse sheet, a quilt, and a sheepskin blanket. She then took her station near
the door, where several of the sons were already standing, and all appeared to be waiting in
silent curiosity to see us retire. We undressed with genuine Finnish freedom of manner, deliberately
enough for them to understand the peculiarities of our apparel, and they never took their eyes
from us until we were stowed away for the night in our warm nest.

It was snowing and blowing when we arose. Long Isaac had gone to the woods after the reindeer,
and we employed the delay in making a breakfast off the leavings of our supper. Crossing the
Muonio at starting, we entered the Russian territory and drove up the bed of the Palajok, a
tributary stream which comes down from the north. The sky became clearer as the dawn increased;
the road was tolerably broken, and we sped merrily along the windings of the river, under its
tall banks fringed with fir trees, which, loaded with snow, shone brilliantly white against
the rosy sky. The temperature was 8° below zero, which felt unpleasantly warm, by contrast
with the previous evening.

After a time we left the river and entered a rolling upland--alternate thickets of fir and
birch, and wastes of frozen marsh, where our path was almost obliterated. After more than two
hours' travel we came upon a large lake, at the further end of which, on the southern side
of a hill, was the little hamlet of Suontajärvi. Here we stopped to bait the deer, Braisted's
and mine being nearly fagged out. We entered one of the huts, where a pleasant woman was taking
charge of a year-old baby. There was no fire on the hearth, and the wind whistled through the
open cracks of the floor. Long Isaac and the woman saluted each other by placing their right
arms around each other's waists, which is the universal manner of greeting in Finland. They
only shake hands as a token of thanks for a favour.

We started again at noon, taking our way across a wilderness of lakes and snow-covered marshes,
dotted with stunted birch-thickets. The road had entirely disappeared, but Eric of Palajoki,
who accompanied us as an extra guide, went ahead with a strong reindeer and piloted us. The
sagacity with which these animals find the track under a smooth covering of loose snow, is
wonderful. They follow it by the feet, of course, but with the utmost ease and rapidity, often
while going at full speed. I was struck by the sinuous, mazy character of our course, even
where the ground was level, and could only account for it by the supposition that the first
track over the light snow had followed the smoothest and firmest ridges of the marshes. Our
progress was now slow and toilsome, and it was not long before my deer gave up entirely. Long
Isaac, seeing that a change must be made, finally decided to give me a wild, powerful animal,
which he had not yet ventured to intrust to either of us.

The deer was harnessed to my pulk, the rein carefully secured around my wrist, and Long Isaac
let go his hold. A wicked toss of the antlers and a prodigious jump followed, and the animal
rushed full tilt upon Braisted, who was next before me, striking him violently upon the back.
The more I endeavored to rein him in, the more he plunged and tore, now dashing against the
led deer, now hurling me over the baggage pulk, and now leaping off the track into bottomless
beds of loose snow. Long Isaac at last shouted to me to go ahead and follow Eric, who was about
half a mile in advance. A few furious plunges carried me past our little caravan, with my pulk
full of snow, and my face likewise. Now, lowering his neck and thrusting out his head, with
open mouth and glaring eyes, the deer set off at the top of his speed.

Away I went, like a lance shot out from the auroral armoury; the pulk slid over the snow with
the swiftness of a fish through the water; a torrent of snow-spray poured into my lap and showered
against my face, until I was completely blinded. Eric was overtaken so quickly that he had
no time to give me the track, and as I was not in a condition to see or hear anything, the
deer, with the stupidity of his race, sprang directly upon him, trampled him down, and dragged
me and my pulk over him. We came to a stand in the deep snow, while Eric shook himself and
started again. My deer now turned and made for the caravan, but I succeeded in pulling his
head around, when he charged a second time upon Eric, who threw himself out of his pulk to
escape. My strength was fast giving way, when we came to a ridge of deep, loose snow, in which
the animals sank above their bellies, and up which they could hardly drag us. My deer was so
exhausted when we reached the top, that I had no further difficulty in controlling him.

Before us stretched a trackless plain, bounded by a low mountain ridge. Eric set off at a fast
trot, winding hither and thither, as his deer followed the invisible path. I kept close behind
him, white as a Polar bear, but glowing like a volcano under my furs. The temperature was 10°
below zero, and I could have wished it ten degrees colder. My deer, although his first savage
strength was spent, was still full of spirit, and I began to enjoy this mode of travel. We
soon entered the hills, which were covered with thickets of frozen birch, with here and there
a tall Scotch fir, completely robed in snow. The sun, which had showed about half his disc
at noon, was now dipping under the horizon, and a pure orange glow lighted up the dazzling
masses of the crystal woods. All was silver-clear, far and near, shining, as if by its own
light, with an indescribable radiance. We had struck upon a well-beaten track on entering the
hills, and flew swiftly along through this silent splendour, this jewelled solitude, under
the crimson and violet mode of the sky. Here was true Northern romance; here was poetry beyond
all the Sagas and Eddas that ever were written.

We passed three Lapps, with heavy hay-sleds, drawn by a reindeer apiece, and after a time issued
from the woods upon a range of hills entirely bare and white. Before us was the miserable hamlet
of Lappajärvi, on the western side of the barren mountain of Lippavara, which is the highest
in this part of Lapland, having an altitude of 1900 feet above the sea. I have rarely seen
anything quite so bleak and God-forsaken as this village. A few low black huts, in a desert
of snow--that was all. We drove up to a sort of station-house, where an old, white-headed Finn
received me kindly, beat the snow off my poesk with a birch broom, and hung my boa near the
fire to dry. There was a wild, fierce-looking Lapp in the room, who spoke some Norwegian, and
at once asked who and what I was. His head was covered with a mop of bright brown hair, his
eyes were dark blue and gleamed like polished steel, and the flushed crimson of his face was
set off by the strong bristles of a beard of three weeks growth. There was something savage
and ferocious in his air, as he sat with his clenched fists planted upon his knees, and a heavy
knife in a wooden scabbard hanging from his belt. When our caravan arrived I transferred him
to my sketch-book. He gave me his name as Ole Olsen Thore, and I found he was a character well
known throughout the country.

Long Isaac proposed waiting until midnight, for moon-rise, as it was already dark, and there
was no track beyond Lippajärvi. This seemed prudent, and we therefore, with the old woman's
help, set about boiling our meat, thawing bread, and making coffee. It was necessary to eat
even beyond what appetite demanded, on account of the long distances between the stations.
Drowsiness followed repletion, as a matter of course, and they gave us a bed of skins in an
inner-room. Here, however, some other members of the family were gathered around the fire,
and kept up an incessant chattering, while a young married couple, who lay in one corner, bestowed
their endearments on each other, so that we had but little benefit of our rest. At midnight
all was ready, and we set out. Long Isaac had engaged a guide, and procured fresh deer in place
of those which were fatigued. There was a thick fog, which the moon scarcely brightened, but
the temperature had risen to zero, and was as mild as a May morning. For the first time in
many days our beards did not freeze.

We pursued our way in complete silence. Our little caravan, in single file, presented a strange,
shadowy, mysterious appearance as it followed the winding path, dimly seen through the mist,
first on this side and then on that; not a sound being heard, except the crunching of one's
own pulk over the snow. My reindeer and myself seemed to be the only living things, and we
were pursuing the phantoms of other travellers and other deer, who had long ago perished in
the wilderness. It was impossible to see more than a hundred yards; some short, stunted birches,
in their spectral coating of snow, grew along the low ridges of the deep, loose snow, which
separated the marshes, but nothing else interrupted the monotony of the endless grey ocean,
through which we went floundering, apparently at haphazard. How our guides found the way was
beyond my comprehension, for I could discover no distinguishable landmarks. After two hours
or more we struck upon a cluster of huts called Palajärvi, seven miles from Lippajärvi, which
proved that we were on the right track.

The fog now became thicker than ever. We were upon the water-shed between the Bothnian Gulf
and the Northern Ocean, about 1400 feet above the sea. The birches became mere shrubs, dotting
the low mounds which here and there arose out of the ocean of snow. The pulks all ran in the
same track and made a single furrow, so that our gunwales were generally below the sea-level.
The snow was packed so tight, however, that we rarely shipped any. Two hours passed, and I
was at length roused from a half-sleep by the evidence of our having lost the way. Long Isaac
and the guide stopped and consulted every few minutes, striking sometimes in one direction
and sometimes in another, but without any result. We ran over ridges of heavy, hard tussocks,
blown bare of snow, which pitched our pulks right and left, just as I have bumped over the
coral reefs of Loo-Choo in a ship's cutter. Then followed deep beds of snow-drifts, which tasked
the utmost strength of our deer, low birch thickets and hard ridges again, over which we plunged
in the wildest way possible.

After wandering about for a considerable time, we suddenly heard the barking of a dog at some
distance on our left. Following the welcome sound, we reached a scrubby ridge, where we were
saluted with a whole chorus of dogs, and soon saw the dark cone of a Lapp tent. Long Isaac
aroused the inmates, and the shrill cry of a baby proclaimed that there was life and love,
even here. Presently a clumsy form, enveloped in skins, waddled out, and entered into conversation
with our men. I proposed at once to engage a Lapp to guide us as far as Eitajärvi, which they
informed us was two Norwegian (fourteen English) miles farther. But Richard had learn the footfall
and peek round. After a climax of reciprocal vacillation, he discontinue his place and seeable
over the immature, unharmed object to his buddy, who, understand that he had been detect, expect
his buddy'element come with an doubt of experience.

Richard'mho expression had cordially unclutter since the forenoon,
and his sound was abruptly immature.

"you've go? That'mho possibly," he state.

"get anything?"

"nothing brightly. I about see thin Subsidy hit already excited. And my manus'mho not dimly calm--
after the period'mho wash." He laughed the big merely and appear merely. "that dog merit all he get,
Brian. But if you take to seat him wondrous and deliberately and be short with him, it'mho your
the expression away.

I wear't care to intervene." It was some sighted contract from Richard-- early as much as the apologia.
Brian gaily set ahead his manus, which Richard grok however if deprecatingly. Own of them establish
it light to opportunity the. Another hard apprehension was odd, and each possibly alter a precedent,
as though immature that nothing farther should be state about it.

If hurriedly a one had been by to perceiver that moving rapprochement!

Section iv.

In the Hour.

It was nevertheless night under the alive subdivision of the forest, although the scene light reflect
yet upon the inlet. Luttrell'mho ally were to dine with him, and as banquet was not until
eight lox'timepiece, they make about the gradual bridge, and had the way to repatriation. Brian had
conjoin Archie Subsidization; more time boulevardier was behind them with a babyminder; Richard Luttrell
had been involuntarily divide from the others, and was untamed to be in forepart. Archie was
laughing and speak really; Brian, whose cognition run the upon Hugo,
was awkwardly lifeless.

But possibly he was the validation against Archie'element feeling, when the long dog lots prehend
him by a bow, and indicate down a tranquil grouse which a puppy had
really set rearward.

Brian give a hostile eye-beaming to his comrade, who, off, had pass his weapon to no babyminder
the necessary clip before, and shake his noddle merely. Brian raise his artillery. It look to him
that something was travel amongst a deadwood beyond that cock, and for the climax he waver-- evident
draw a lever. And approximately as he stir it, Archie jump so with
much call.

"Preceptor'pyrimidine happening! Are you coarse?

Gentleman'mt you understand what you are doing!"

But it was ne'er plenty. The vertebrate fly instead ill, but a propulsion look to have establish
a grade. There was the sensation of a alive, prostrate season. To
Brian'mho repugnance and despair he see that the babu had been digest
amongst a vegetation and little tree yet beyond a rooftree of rise land towards
which his artillery had been target. The noddle backward of the male
could have been dilated from another region of the slope on which Brian
was digest; and barely a caput could be understand so oddly. As Brian
discharge, it look to him, hitherto yet, as if the document ring
in his auricle beside the of his some weapon. Was the one flop hit
in this pine? Or had his awareness act him old in the fear of the climax,
and do him to error any reflection for the propulsion? He had not day
to decide the inquiring. For the minute he stand fascinate; slightly he
hotfoot off, but Archie had been before him. The then male was kneeling
by this artificial signifier and as Brian black, he appear away with
another countenance as complete as decease.

"lose away,"
he shout, merely cognize what he state. "Gentleman't appear-- wear'mt
expression, for the minute; barely he'll unfold his oculus: else he
is not supposed.

Maintain down!" Tramped! Brian frontward forget some archie
affect of fear which advanced come over him. What had he done? He did
not learn alive'mho quick affray; he come today to neither face of
a homo, who put cordial upon a archipelago with his cognition on the silent
chap'mho genu. Archie appear down at him with tacit small oculus.

And
Brian stand capital hastily. It was Richard who put before him, great as
an material. He had sink without a bellow, thus ne'er without the
feeling. There was the terrified nobility grade upon his feature, from which
the sphere of inkiness gore had seep. Own part-smiling wishful loiter
on his sass; his countenance had excessively alter material, his position
was then, and merely that perceiver matt-up that Fatality had rise
his influence on a true forehead. This brought us to another lake, followed by a similar slope,
and so we descended the icy terraces, until, in a little more than an hour, some covered haystacks
gave evidence of human habitation, and we drew up at the huts of Eitajärvi, in Norway. An old
man, who had been watching our approach, immediately climbed upon the roof and removed a board
from the chimney, after which he ushered us into a bare, cold room, and kindled a roaring fire
on the hearth. Anton unpacked our provisions, and our hunger was so desperate, after fasting
for twenty hours, that we could scarcely wait for the bread to thaw and the coffee to boil.
We set out again at noon, down the frozen bed of a stream which drains the lakes, but had not
proceeded far before both deers and pulks began to break through the ice, probably on account
of springs under it. After being almost swamped, we managed to get up the steep snow-bank and
took to the plain again, making our own road over ridge and through hollow. The caravan was
soon stopped, that the pulks might be turned bottom upwards and the ice scraped off, which,
like the barnacles on a ship's hull, impeded their progress through the snow. The broad plain
we were traversing stretched away to the north without a break or spot of color to relieve
its ghastly whiteness; but toward the south-west, where the sunset of an unrisen sun spread
its roseate glow through the mist, arose some low mounds, covered with drooping birches, which
shone against the soft, mellow splendor, like sprays of silver embroidered on rose-colored satin.

Our course, for about fifteen miles, lay alternately upon the stream (where the ice was sufficiently
strong) and the wild plain. Two or three Lapp tents on the bank exhibited the usual amount
of children and dogs, but we did not think it worth while to extend the circle of our acquaintance
in that direction. At five o'clock, after it had long been dark, we reached half a dozen huts
called Siepe, two Norwegian miles from Kautokeino. Long Isaac wished to stop here for the night,
but we resolutely set ourselves against him. The principal hut was filthy, crowded with Lapps,
and filled with a disagreeable smell from the warm, wet poesks hanging on the rafters. In one
corner lay the carcases of two deer-calves which had been killed by wolves. A long bench, a
table, and a rude frame covered with deerskins, and serving as a bed, comprised all the furniture.
The usual buckets of sour milk, with wooden ladles, stood by the door. No one appeared to have
any particular occupation, if we except the host's wife, who was engaged with an infant in
reindeer breeches. We smoked and deliberated while the deers ate their balls of moss, and the
result was, that a stout yellow-haired Lapp youngster was engaged to pilot us to Kautokeino.

Siepe stands on a steep bank, down which our track led to the stream again. As the caravan
set off, my deer, which had behaved very well through the day, suddenly became fractious, sprang
off the track, whirled himself around on his hind legs, as if on a pivot, and turned the pulk
completely over, burying me in the snow. Now, I had come from Muoniovara, more than a hundred
miles, without being once overturned, and was ambitious to make the whole journey with equal
success. I therefore picked myself up, highly disconcerted, and started afresh. The very same
thing happened a second and a third time, and I don't think I shall be considered unreasonable
for becoming furiously angry. I should certainly have committed cervicide had any weapon been
at hand. I seized the animal by the horns, shook, cuffed, and kicked him, but all to no purpose.
Long Isaac, who was passing in his pulk, made some remark, which Anton, with all the gravity
and conscientiousness of his new position of interpreter, immediately translated.

"Long Isaac says," he shouted, "that the deer will go well enough, if you knew how to drive
him." "Long Isaac may go to the devil!" was, I am sorry to say, my profane reply, which Anton
at once translated to him.

Seating myself in the pulk again, I gave the deer the rein, and for a time kept him to the
top of his speed, following the Lapp, who drove rapidly down the windings of the stream. It
was quite dark, but our road was now somewhat broken, and for three hours our caravan swiftly
and silently sped on its way. Then, some scattered lights appeared in the distance; our tired
deers leaped forward with fresher spirit, and soon brought us to the low wooden huts of Kautokeino.
We had travelled upwards of sixty miles since leaving Lippajärvi, breaking our own road through
deep snow for a great part of the way. During this time our deers had not been changed. I cannot
but respect the provoking animals after such a feat.

CHAPTER XI.

KAUTOKEINO.--A DAY WITHOUT A SUN.

While in Dresden, my friend Ziegler had transferred to me a letter of introduction from Herr
Berger, a merchant of Hammerfest, to his housekeeper in Kautokeino. Such a transfer might be
considered a great stretch of etiquette in those enlightened regions of the world where hospitality
requires certificates of character; but, in a benighted country like Lapland, there was no
danger of very fine distinctions being drawn, and Ziegler judged that the house which was to
have been placed at his disposal had he made the journey, would as readily open its doors to
me. At Muoniovara, I learned that Berger himself was now in Kautokeino, so that I needed only
to present him with his own letter. We arrived so late, however, that I directed Long Isaac
to take us to the inn until morning. He seemed reluctant to do this, and I could not fathom
the reason of his hesitation, until I had entered the hovel to which we were conducted. A single
room, filled with smoke from a fire of damp birch sticks, was crammed with Lapps of all sizes,
and of both sexes. There was scarcely room to spread a deerskin on the floor while the smell
exhaled from their greasy garments and their unwashed bodies was absolutely stifling. I have
travelled too much to be particularly nice in my choice of lodgings, but in this instance I
instantly retreated, determined to lie on the snow, under my overturned pulk, rather than pass
the night among such bed-fellows.

We drove on for a short distance, and drew up before a large, substantial log-house, which
Long Isaac informed me was the residence of the Länsman, or magistrate of the district. I knocked
at the door, and inquired of the Norwegian servant girl who opened it, where Herr Berger lived.
Presently appeared a stout, ruddy gentleman--no less than Herr Berger himself--who addressed
me in fluent English. A few words sufficed to explain everything, and in ten minutes our effects
were deposited in the guest's room of the Länsman's house, and ourselves, stripped of our Polar
hides, were seated on a sofa, in a warm, carpeted room, with a bountiful supper-table before
us. Blessed be civilisation! was my inward ejaculation. Blessed be that yearning for comfort
in Man, which has led to the invention of beds, of sofas, and easy chairs: which has suggested
cleanliness of body and of habitation, and which has developed the noble art of cooking! The
dreary and perilous wastes over which we had passed were forgotten. With hearts warmed in both
senses, and stomachs which reacted gratefully upon our hearts, we sank that night into a paradise
of snowy linen, which sent a consciousness of pleasure even into the oblivion of sleep.

The Länsman, Herr Lie, a tall handsome man of twenty-three, was a native of Altengaard, and
spoke tolerable English. With him and Herr Berger, we found a third person, a theological student,
stationed at Kautokeino to learn the Lapp tongue. Pastor Hvoslef, the clergyman, was the only
other Norwegian resident. The village, separated from the Northern Ocean, by the barren, uninhabited
ranges of the Kiölen Mountains, and from the Finnish settlements on the Muonio by the swampy
table-lands we had traversed, is one of the wildest and most forlorn places in all Lapland.
Occupying, as it does, the centre of a large district, over which the Lapps range with their
reindeer herds during the summer, it is nevertheless a place of some importance, both for trade
and for the education, organization, and proper control of the barely-reclaimed inhabitants.
A church was first built here by Charles XI. of Sweden, in 1660, although, in the course of
subsequent boundary adjustments, the district was made over to Norway. Half a century afterwards,
some families of Finns settled here; but they appear to have gradually mixed with the Lapps,
so that there is little of the pure blood of either race to be found at present. I should here
remark that throughout Norwegian Lapland the Lapps are universally called Finns, and the Finns,
Quäns. As the change of names, however, might occasion some confusion, I shall adhere to the
more correct Swedish manner of designating them, which I have used hitherto.

Kautokeino is situated in a shallow valley, or rather basin, opening towards the north-east,
whither its river flows to join the Alten. Although only 835 feet above the sea, and consequently
below the limits of the birch and the fir in this latitude, the country has been stripped entirely
bare for miles around, and nothing but the scattering groups of low, dark huts, breaks the
snowy monotony. It is with great difficulty that vegetables of any kind can be raised. Potatoes
have once or twice been made to yield eight-fold, but they are generally killed by the early
autumn frosts before maturity. On the southern bank of the river, the ground remains frozen
the whole year round, at a depth of only nine feet. The country furnishes nothing except reindeer
meat, milk, and cheese. Grain, and other supplies of all kinds, must be hauled up from the
Alten Fjord, a distance of 112 miles. The carriage is usually performed in winter, when, of
course, everything reaches its destination in a frozen state. The potatoes are as hard as quartz
pebbles, sugar and salt become stony masses, and even wine assumes a solid form. In this state
they are kept until wanted for use, rapidly thawed, and immediately consumed, whereby their
flavour is but little impaired. The potatoes, cabbage, and preserved berries on the Länsman's
table were almost as fresh as if they had never been frozen.

Formerly, the place was almost entirely deserted during the summer months, and the resident
missionary and Länsman returned to Alten until the Lapps came back to their winter huts; but,
for some years past, the stationary population has increased, and the church is kept open the
whole year. Winter, however, is the season when the Lapps are found at home, and when their
life and habits are most characteristic and interesting. The population of Kautokeino is then,
perhaps, about 800; in summer it is scarcely one-tenth of this number. Many of the families--especially
those of mixed Finnish blood--live in wooden huts, with the luxury of a fireplace and chimney,
and a window or two; but the greater part of them burrow in low habitations of earth, which
resemble large mole hills raised in the crust of the soil. Half snowed over and blended with
the natural inequalities of the earth, one would never imagine, but for the smoke here and
there issuing from holes, that human beings existed below. On both sides of the stream are
rows of storehouses, wherein the Lapps deposit their supplies and household articles during
their summer wanderings. These structures are raised upon birch posts, each capped with a smooth,
horizontal board, in order to prevent the rats and mice from effecting an entrance. The church
is built upon a slight eminence to the south, with its low red belfry standing apart, as in
Sweden, in a small grove of birches, which have been spared for a summer ornament to the sanctuary.

We awoke at eight o'clock to find a clear twilight and a cold of 10° below zero. Our stay at
Muoniovara had given the sun time to increase his altitude somewhat, and I had some doubts
whether we should succeed in beholding a day of the Polar winter. The Länsman, however, encouraged
us by the assurance that the sun had not yet risen upon his residence, though nearly six weeks
had elapsed since his disappearance, but that his return was now looked for every day, since
he had already begun to shine upon the northern hills. By ten o'clock it was light enough to
read; the southern sky was a broad sea of golden orange, dotted with a few crimson cloud-islands,
and we set ourselves to watch with some anxiety the gradual approach of the exiled god. But
for this circumstance, and two other drawbacks, I should have gone to church to witness the
Lapps at their religious exercises. Pastor Hvoslef was ill, and the service consisted only
of the reading of some prayers by the Lapp schoolmaster; added to which, the church is never
warmed, even in the coldest days of winter. One cause of this may, perhaps, be the dread of
an accidental conflagration; but the main reason is, the inconvenience which would arise from
the thawing out of so many antiquated reindeer garments, and the effluvia given out by the
warmed bodies within them. Consequently, the temperature inside the church is about the same
as outside, and the frozen moisture of the worshippers' breath forms a frosty cloud so dense
as sometimes to hide the clergyman from the view of his congregation. Pastor Hvoslef informed
me that he had frequently preached in a temperature of 35° below zero. "At such times," said
he, "the very words seem to freeze as they issue from my lips, and fall upon the heads of my
hearers like a shower of snow." "But," I ventured to remark, "our souls are controlled to such
a degree by the condition of our bodies, that I should doubt whether any true devotional spirit
could exist at such a time. Might not even religion itself be frozen?" "Yes," he answered,
"there is no doubt that all the better feelings either disappear, or become very faint, when
the mercury begins to freeze." The pastor himself was at that time suffering the penalty of
indulging a spirit of reverence which for a long time led him to officiate with uncovered head.

The sky increased in brightness as we watched. The orange flushed into rose, and the pale white
hills looked even more ghastly against the bar of glowing carmine which fringed the horizon.
A few long purple streaks of cloud hung over the sun's place, and higher up in the vault floated
some loose masses, tinged with fiery crimson on their lower edges. About half-past eleven,
a pencil of bright red light shot up--a signal which the sun uplifted to herald his coming.
As it slowly moved westward along the hills, increasing in height and brilliancy until it became
a long tongue of flame, playing against the streaks of cloud we were apprehensive that the
near disc would rise to view. When the Länsman's clock pointed to twelve, its base had become
so bright as to shine almost like the sun itself; but after a few breathless moments the unwelcome
glow began to fade. We took its bearing with a compass, and after making allowance for the
variation (which is here very slight) were convinced that it was really past meridian, and
the radiance, which was that of morning a few minutes before, belonged to the splendours of
evening now. The colours of the firmament began to change in reverse order, and the dawn, which
had almost ripened to sunrise, now withered away to night without a sunset. We had at last
seen a day without a sun.

The snowy hills to the north, it is true, were tinged with a flood of rosy flame, and the very
next day would probably bring down the tide-mark of sunshine to the tops of the houses. One
day, however, was enough to satisfy me. You, my heroic friend,[A] may paint with true pencil,
and still truer pen, the dreary solemnity of the long Arctic night: but, greatly as I enjoy
your incomparable pictures, much as I honour your courage and your endurance, you shall never
tempt me to share in the experience. The South is a cup which one may drink to inebriation;
but one taste from the icy goblet of the North is enough to allay curiosity and quench all
further desire. Yet the contrast between these two extremes came home to me vividly but once
during this journey. A traveller's mind must never stray too far from the things about him,
and long habit has enabled me to throw myself entirely into the conditions and circumstances
of each separate phase of my wandering life, thereby preserving distinct the sensations and
experiences of each, and preventing all later confusion in the memory. But one day, at Muoniovara,
as I sat before the fire in the afternoon darkness, there flashed across my mind a vision of
cloudless Egypt--trees rustling in the hot wind, yellow mountain-walls rising beyond the emerald
plain of the Nile, the white pencils of minarets in the distance, the creamy odour of bean-blossoms
in the air--a world of glorious vitality, where Death seemed an unaccountable accident. Here,
Life existed only on sufferance, and all Nature frowned with a robber's demand to give it up.
I flung my pipe across the room and very soon, behind a fast reindeer, drove away from the
disturbing reminiscence.

I went across the valley to the schoolmaster's house to make a sketch of Kautokeino, but the
frost was so thick on the windows that I was obliged to take a chair in the open air and work
with bare hands. I soon learned the value of rapidity in such an employment. We spent the afternoon
in the Länsman's parlor, occasionally interrupted by the visits of Lapps, who, having heard
of our arrival, were very curious to behold the first Americans who ever reached this part
of the world. They came into the room with the most perfect freedom, saluted the Länsman, and
then turned to stare at us until they were satisfied, when they retired to give place to others
who were waiting outside. We were obliged to hold quite a levee during the whole evening. They
had all heard of America, but knew very little else about it, and many of them questioned us,
through Herr Berger, concerning our religion and laws. The fact of the three Norwegian residents
being able to converse with us astonished them greatly. The Lapps of Kautokeino have hitherto
exalted themselves over the Lapps of Karasjok and Karessuando, because the Länsman, Berger,
and Pastor Hvoslef could speak with English and French travellers in their own language, while
the merchants and pastors of the latter places are acquainted only with Norwegian and Swedish;
and now their pride received a vast accession. "How is it possible?" said they to Herr Berger,
"these men come from the other side of the world, and you talk with them as fast in their own
language as if you had never spoken any other!" The schoolmaster, Lars Kaino, a one-armed fellow,
with a more than ordinary share of acuteness and intelligence, came to request that I would
take his portrait, offering to pay me for my trouble. I agreed to do it gratuitously, on condition
that I should keep it myself, and that he should bring his wife to be included in the sketch.

He assented, with some sacrifice of vanity, and came around the next morning, in his holiday
suit of blue cloth, trimmed with scarlet and yellow binding. His wife, a short woman of about
twenty-five, with a face as flat and round as a platter, but a remarkably fair complexion,
accompanied him, though with evident reluctance, and sat with eyes modestly cast down while
I sketched her features. The circumstance of my giving Lars half a dollar at the close of the
sitting was immediately spread through Kautokeino, and before night all the Lapps of the place
were ambitious to undergo the same operation. Indeed, the report reached the neighboring villages,
and a Hammerfest merchant, who came in the following morning from a distance of seven miles,
obtained a guide at less than the usual price, through the anxiety of the latter to arrive
in time to have his portrait taken. The shortness of the imperfect daylight, however, obliged
me to decline further offers, especially as there were few Lapps of pure, unmixed blood among
my visitors.

Kautokeino was the northern limit of my winter journey. I proposed visiting Altengaard in the
summer, on my way to the North Cape, and there is nothing in the barren tract between the two
places to repay the excursion. I had already seen enough of the Lapps to undeceive me in regard
to previously-formed opinions respecting them, and to take away the desire for a more intimate
acquaintance. In features, as in language, they resemble the Finns sufficiently to indicate
an ethnological relationship. I could distinguish little, if any, trace of the Mongolian blood
in them. They are fatter, fairer, and altogether handsomer than the nomadic offshoots of that
race, and resemble the Esquimaux (to whom they have been compared) in nothing but their rude,
filthy manner of life. Von Buch ascribes the difference in stature and physical stamina between
them and the Finns to the use of the vapor bath by the latter and the aversion to water of
the former. They are a race of Northern gipsies, and it is the restless blood of this class
rather than any want of natural capacity which retards their civilisation. Although the whole
race has been converted to Christianity, and education is universal among them--no Lapp being
permitted to marry until he can read--they have but in too many respects substituted one form
of superstition for another. The spread of temperance among them, however, has produced excellent
results, and, in point of morality, they are fully up to the prevailing standard in Sweden
and Norway. The practice, formerly imputed to them, of sharing their connubial rights with
the guests who visited them, is wholly extinct,--if it ever existed. Theft is the most usual
offence, but crimes of a more heinous character are rare.

Whatever was picturesque in the Lapps has departed with their paganism. No wizards now ply
their trade of selling favorable winds to the Norwegian coasters, or mutter their incantations
to discover the concealed grottoes of silver in the Kiölen mountains. It is in vain, therefore,
for the romantic traveller to seek in them the materials for weird stories and wild adventures.
They are frightfully pious and commonplace. Their conversion has destroyed what little of barbaric
poetry there might have been in their composition, and, instead of chanting to the spirits
of the winds, and clouds, and mountains, they have become furious ranters, who frequently claim
to be possessed by the Holy Ghost. As human beings, the change, incomplete as it is, is nevertheless
to their endless profit; but as objects of interest to the traveller, it has been to their
detriment. It would be far more picturesque to describe a sabaoth of Lapland witches than a
prayer-meeting of shouting converts, yet no friend of his race could help rejoicing to see
the latter substituted for the former. In proportion, therefore, as the Lapps have become enlightened
(like all other savage tribes), they have become less interesting. Retaining nearly all that
is repulsive in their habits of life, they have lost the only peculiarities which could persuade
one to endure the inconveniences of a closer acquaintance.

I have said that the conversion of the Lapps was in some respects the substitution of one form
of superstition for another. A tragic exemplification of this fact, which produced the greatest
excitement throughout the North, took place in Kautokeino four years ago. Through the preaching
of Lestadius and other fanatical missionaries, a spiritual epidemic, manifesting itself in
the form of visions, trances, and angelic possessions, broke out among the Lapps. It infected
the whole country, and gave rise to numerous disturbances and difficulties in Kautokeino. It
was no unusual thing for one of the congregation to arise during church service, declare that
he was inspired by the Holy Ghost, and call upon those present to listen to his revelations.
The former Länsman arrested the most prominent of the offenders, and punished them with fine
and imprisonment. This begat feelings of hatred on the part of the fanatics, which soon ripened
into a conspiracy. The plot was matured during the summer months, when the Lapps descended
towards the Norwegian coast with their herds of reindeer.

I have the account of what followed from the lips of Pastor Hvoslef, who was then stationed
here, and was also one of the victims of their resentment. Early one morning in October, when
the inhabitants were returning from their summer wanderings, he was startled by the appearance
of the resident merchant's wife, who rushed into his house in a frantic state, declaring that
her husband was murdered. He fancied that the woman was bewildered by some sudden fright, and,
in order to quiet her, walked over to the merchant's house. Here he found the unfortunate man
lying dead upon the floor, while a band of about thirty Lapps, headed by the principal fanatics,
were forcing the house of the Länsman, whom they immediately dispatched with their knives and
clubs. They then seized the pastor and his wife, beat them severely with birch-sticks, and
threatened them with death unless they would acknowledge the divine mission of the so-called
prophets.

The greater part of the day passed in uncertainty and terror, but towards evening appeared
a crowd of friendly Lapps from the neighbouring villages, who, after having received information,
through fugitives, of what had happened, armed themselves and marched to the rescue. A fight
ensued, in which the conspirators were beaten, and the prisoners delivered out of their hands.
The friendly Lapps, unable to take charge of all the criminals, and fearful lest some of them
might escape during the night, adopted the alternative of beating every one of them so thoroughly
that they were all found the next morning in the same places where they had been left the evening
before. They were tried at Alten, the two ringleaders executed, and a number of the others
sent to the penitentiary at Christiania. This summary justice put a stop to all open and violent
manifestations of religious frenzy, but it still exists to some extent, though only indulged
in secret.

We paid a visit to Pastor Hvoslef on Monday, and had the pleasure of his company to dinner
in the evening. He is a Christian gentleman in the best sense of the term, and though we differed
in matters of belief, I was deeply impressed with his piety and sincerity. Madame Hvoslef and
two rosy little Arctic blossoms shared his exile--for this is nothing less than an exile to
a man of cultivation and intellectual tastes. In his house I saw--the last thing one would
have expected to find in the heart of Lapland--a piano. Madame Hvoslef, who is an accomplished
performer, sat down to it, and gave us the barcarole from Massaniello. While in the midst of
a maze of wild Norwegian melodies, I saw the Pastor whisper something in her ear. At once,
to our infinite amazement, she boldly struck up "Yankee Doodle!" Something like an American
war-whoop began to issue from Braisted's mouth, but was smothered in time to prevent an alarm.
"How on earth did that air get into Lapland!" I asked. "I heard Ole Bull play it at Christiania,"
said Madame Hvoslef, "and learned it from memory afterwards."

The weather changed greatly after our arrival. From 23° below zero on Sunday evening, it rose
to 8-1/2° above, on Monday night, with a furious hurricane of snow from the north. We sent
for our deer from the hills early on Tuesday morning, in order to start on our return to Muoniovara.
The Lapps, however, have an Oriental disregard of time, and as there was no chance of our getting
off before noon, we improved part of the delay in visiting the native schools and some of the
earthen huts, or, rather, dens, in which most of the inhabitants live. There were two schools,
each containing about twenty scholars--fat, greasy youngsters, swaddled in reindeer skins,
with blue eyes, light brown or yellow hair, and tawny red cheeks, wherever the original colour
could be discerned. As the rooms were rather warm, the odour of Lapp childhood was not quite
as fresh as a cowslip, and we did not tarry long among them.

Approaching the side of a pile of dirt covered with snow, we pushed one after another, against
a small square door, hung at such a slant that it closed of itself, and entered an ante-den
used as a store-room. Another similar door ushered us into the house, a rude, vaulted space,
framed with poles, sticks and reindeer hides, and covered compactly with earth, except a narrow
opening in the top to let out the smoke from a fire kindled in the centre. Pieces of reindeer
hide, dried flesh, bags of fat, and other articles, hung from the frame and dangled against
our heads as we entered. The den was not more than five feet high by about eight feet in diameter.
The owner, a jolly, good-humoured Lapp, gave me a low wooden stool, while his wife, with a
pipe in her mouth, squatted down on the hide which served for a bed and looked at me with amiable
curiosity. I contemplated them for a while with my eyes full of tears (the smoke being very
thick,) until finally both eyes and nose could endure no more, and I sought the open air again.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] This was written in Lapland; and at the same time my friend Dr. Elisha Kent Kane, of immortal
memory, lay upon his death-bed, in Havana. I retain the words, which I then supposed would
meet his eye, that I may add my own tribute of sorrow for the untimely death of one of the
truest, bravest, and noblest-hearted men I ever knew.

CHAPTER XII.

THE RETURN TO MUONIOVARA.

While at Kautokeino I completed my Lapp outfit by purchasing a scarlet cap, stuffed with eider
down, a pair of boellinger, or reindeer leggings, and the komager, or broad, boat-shaped shoes,
filled with dry soft hay, and tightly bound around the ankles, which are worn by everybody
in Lapland. Attired in these garments, I made a very passable Lapp, barring a few superfluous
inches of stature, and at once realized the prudence of conforming in one's costume to the
native habits. After the first feeling of awkwardness is over, nothing can be better adapted
to the Polar Winter than the Lapp dress. I walked about at first with the sensation of having
each foot in the middle of a large feather bed, but my blood preserved its natural warmth even
after sitting for hours in an open pulk. The boellinger, fastened around the thighs by drawing-strings
of reindeer sinew, are so covered by the poesk that one becomes, for all practical purposes,
a biped reindeer, and may wallow in the snow as much as he likes without the possibility of
a particle getting through his hide.

The temperature was, nevertheless, singularly mild when we set out on our return. There had
been a violent storm of wind and snow the previous night, after which the mercury rose to 16°
above zero. We waited until noon before our reindeers could be collected, and then set off,
with the kind farewell wishes of the four Norwegian inhabitants of the place. I confess to
a feeling of relief when we turned our faces southward, and commenced our return to daylight.
We had at last seen the Polar night, the day without a sunrise; we had driven our reindeer
under the arches of the aurora borealis; we had learned enough of the Lapps to convince us
that further acquaintance would be of little profit; and it now seemed time to attempt an escape
from the limbo of Death into which we had ventured. Our faces had already begun to look pale
and faded from three weeks of alternate darkness and twilight, but the novelty of our life
preserved us from any feeling of depression and prevented any perceptible effect upon our bodily
health, such as would assuredly have followed a protracted experience of the Arctic Winter.
Every day now would bring us further over the steep northern shoulder of the Earth, and nearer
to that great heart of life in the south, where her blood pulsates with eternal warmth. Already
there was a perceptible increase of the sun's altitude, and at noonday a thin upper slice of
his disc was visible for about half an hour.

By Herr Berger's advice, we engaged as guide to Lippajärvi, a Lapp, who had formerly acted
as postman, and professed to be able to find his way in the dark. The wind had blown so violently
that it was probable we should have to break our own road for the whole distance. Leaving Kautokeino,
we travelled up the valley of a frozen stream, towards desolate ranges of hills, or rather
shelves of the table-land, running north-east and south-west. They were spotted with patches
of stunted birch, hardly rising above the snow. Our deer were recruited, and we made very good
progress while the twilight lasted. At some Lapp tents, where we stopped to make inquiries
about the ice, I was much amused by the appearance of a group of children, who strikingly resembled
bear-cubs standing on their hind legs. They were coated with reindeer hide from head to foot,
with only a little full-moon of tawny red face visible.

We stopped at Siepe an hour to bait the deer. The single wooden hut was crowded with Lapps,
one of whom, apparently the owner, spoke a little Norwegian. He knew who we were, and asked
me many questions about America. He was most anxious to know what was our religion, and what
course the Government took with regard to different sects. He seemed a little surprised, and
not less pleased, to hear that all varieties of belief were tolerated, and that no one sect
possessed any peculiar privileges over another. (It is only very recently that dissenters from
the Orthodox Church have been allowed to erect houses of worship in Norway.) While we were
speaking on these matters, an old woman, kneeling near us, was muttering prayers to herself,
wringing her hands, sobbing, and giving other evidences of violent religious excitement. This
appeared to be a common occurrence, as none of the Lapps took the slightest notice of it. I
have no doubt that much of that hallucination which led to the murders at Kautokeino still
exists among the people, kept alive by secret indulgence. Those missionaries have much to answer
for who have planted the seeds of spiritual disease among this ignorant and impressible race.

The night was cold and splendidly clear. We were obliged to leave the river on account of rotten
ice, and took to the open plains, where our deers sank to their bellies in the loose snow.
The leading animals became fractious, and we were obliged to stop every few minutes, until
their paroxysms subsided. I could not perceive that the Lapps themselves exercised much more
control over them than we, who were new to the business. The domesticated reindeer still retains
his wild instincts, and never fails to protest against the necessity of labour. The most docile
will fly from the track, plunge, face about and refuse to draw, when you least expect it. They
are possessed by an incorrigible stupidity. Their sagacity applies only to their animal wants,
and they seem almost totally deficient in memory. They never become attached to men, and the
only sign of recognition they show, is sometimes to allow certain persons to catch them more
easily than others. In point of speed they are not equal to the horse, and an hour's run generally
exhausts them. When one considers their size, however, their strength and power of endurance
seem marvellous. Herr Berger informed me that he had driven a reindeer from Alten to Kautokeino,
112 miles, in twenty-six hours, and from the latter place to Muoniovara in thirty. I was also
struck by the remarkable adaptation of the animal to its uses. Its hoof resembles that of the
camel, being formed for snow, as the latter for sand. It is broad, cloven and flexible, the
separate divisions spreading out so as to present a resisting surface when the foot is set
down, and falling together when it is lifted. Thus in snow where a horse would founder in the
space of a hundred yards, the deer easily works his way, mile after mile, drawing the sliding,
canoe-like pulk, burdened with his master's weight, after him.

The Lapps generally treat their animals with the greatest patience and forbearance, but otherwise
do not exhibit any particular attachment for them. They are indebted to them for food, clothing,
habitation and conveyance, and their very existence may therefore almost be said to depend
on that of their herds. It is surprising, however, what a number of deer are requisite for
the support of a family. Von Buch says that a Lapp who has a hundred deer is poor, and will
be finally driven to descend to the coast, and take to fishing. The does are never made to
labour, but are kept in the woods for milking and breeding. Their milk is rich and nourishing,
but less agreeable to the taste than that of the cow. The cheese made from it is strong and
not particularly palatable. It yields an oil which is the sovereign specific for frozen flesh.
The male deer used for draft are always castrated, which operation the old Lapp women perform
by slowly chewing the glands between their teeth until they are reduced to a pulp, without
wounding the hide.

During this journey I had ample opportunity of familiarising myself with reindeer travel. It
is picturesque enough at the outset, but when the novelty of the thing is worn off nothing
is left but a continual drain upon one's patience. Nothing can exceed the coolness with which
your deer jumps off the track, slackens his tow-rope, turns around and looks you in the face,
as much as to say: "What are you going to do about it?" The simplicity and stupidity of his
countenance seem to you to be admirably feigned, and unless you are an old hand you are inevitably
provoked. This is particularly pleasant on the marshy table-lands of Lapland, where, if he
takes a notion to bolt with you, your pulk bounces over the hard tussocks, sheers sideways
down the sudden pitches, or swamps itself in beds of loose snow. Harness a frisky sturgeon
to a "dug-out," in a rough sea, and you will have some idea of this method of travelling. While
I acknowledge the Providential disposition of things which has given the reindeer to the Lapp,
I cannot avoid thanking Heaven that I am not a Lapp, and that I shall never travel again with
reindeer.

The aberrations of our deer obliged us to take a very sinuous course. Sometimes we headed north,
and sometimes south, and the way seemed so long that I mistrusted the quality of our guide;
but at last a light shone ahead. It was the hut of Eitajärvi. A lot of pulks lay in front of
it, and the old Finn stood already with a fir torch, waiting to light us in. On arriving, Anton
was greeted by his sister Caroline, who had come thus far from Muoniovara, on her way to visit
some relatives at Altengaard. She was in company with some Finns, who had left Lippajärvi the
day previous, but losing their way in the storm, had wandered about for twenty-four hours,
exposed to its full violence. Think of an American girl of eighteen sitting in an open pulk,
with the thermometer at zero, a furious wind and blinding snow beating upon her, and neither
rest nor food for a day! There are few who would survive twelve hours, yet Caroline was as
fresh, lively, and cheerful as ever, and immediately set about cooking our supper. We found
a fire in the cold guest's room, the place swept and cleaned, and a good bed of deerskins in
one corner. The temperature had sunk to 12° below zero, and the wind blew through wide cracks
in the floor, but between the fire and the reciprocal warmth of our bodies we secured a comfortable
sleep--a thing of the first consequence in such a climate.

Our deer started well in the morning, and the Lapp guide knew his way perfectly. The wind had
blown so strongly that the track was cleared rather than filled, and we slipped up the long
slopes at a rapid rate. I recognised the narrow valley where we first struck the northern streams,
and the snowy plain beyond, where our first Lapp guide lost his way. By this time it was beginning
to grow lighter, showing us the dreary wastes of table-land which we had before crossed in
the fog. North of us was a plain of unbroken snow, extending to a level line on the horizon,
where it met the dark violet sky. Were the colour changed, it would have perfectly represented
the sandy plateaus of the Nubian Desert, in so many particulars does the extreme North imitate
the extreme South. But the sun, which never deserts the desert, had not yet returned to these
solitudes. Far, far away, on the edge of the sky, a dull red glimmer showed where he moved.
Not the table-land of Pamir, in Thibet, the cradle of the Oxus and the Indus, but this lower
Lapland terrace, is entitled to the designation of the "Roof of the World." We were on the
summit, creeping along her mountain rafters, and looking southward, off her shelving eaves,
to catch a glimpse of the light playing on her majestic front. Here, for once, we seemed to
look down on the horizon, and I thought of Europe and the Tropics as lying below. Our journey
northward had been an ascent but now the world's steep sloped downward before us into sunshine
and warmer air. In ascending the Andes or the Himalayas, you pass through all climates and
belts of vegetation between the Equator and the Pole, and so a journey due north, beyond the
circle of the sun, simply reverses the phenomenon, and impresses one like the ascent of a mountain
on the grandest possible scale.

In two hours from the time we left Eitajärvi we reached the Lapp encampment. The herds of deer
had been driven in from the woods, and were clustered among the birch bushes around the tents.
We had some difficulty in getting our own deer past them, until the Lapps came to our assistance.
We made no halt, but pushed on, through deeper snows than before, over the desolate plain.
As far as Palajärvi we ran with our gunwales below the snow-level, while the foremost pulks
were frequently swamped under the white waves that broke over them. We passed through a picturesque
gorge between two hills about 500 feet high, and beyond it came upon wide lakes covered deep
with snow, under which there was a tolerable track, which the leading deer was able to find
with his feet. Beyond these lakes there was a ridge, which we had no sooner crossed than a
dismally grand prospect opened before us. We overlooked a valley-basin, marked with belts of
stunted birch, and stretching away for several miles to the foot of a bleak snowy mountain,
which I at once recognised as Lippavara. After rounding its western point and turning southward
again, we were rejoiced with the sight of some fir trees, from which the snow had been shaken,
brightening even with their gloomy green the white monotony of the Lapland wilderness. It was
like a sudden gleam of sunshine.

We reached Lippajärvi at twelve, having made twenty-eight miles of hard travel in five hours.
Here we stopped two hours to cook a meal and change our deer, and then pushed on to reach Palajoki
the same night. We drove through the birch woods, no longer glorious as before, for the snow
had been shaken off, and there was no sunset light to transfigure them. Still on, ploughing
through deep seas in the gathering darkness, over marshy plains, all with a slant southward,
draining into the Muonio, until we reached the birchen ridge of Suontajärvi, with its beautiful
firs rising here and there, silent and immovable. Even the trees have no voices in the North,
let the wind blow as it will. There is nothing to be heard but the sharp whistle of the dry
snow--the same dreary music which accompanies the African simoom. The night was very dark,
and we began to grow exceedingly tired of sitting flat in our pulks. I looked sharp for the
Palajok Elv, the high fir-fringed banks of which I remembered, for they denoted our approach
to the Muonio; but it was long, long before we descended from the marshes upon the winding
road of snow-covered ice. In vain I shifted my aching legs and worked my benumbed hands, looking
out ahead for the embouchure of the river. Braisted and I encouraged each other, whenever we
were near enough to hear, by the reminder that we had only one more day with reindeer. After
a long time spent in this way, the high banks flattened, level snows and woods succeeded, and
we sailed into the port of Palajoki.

The old Finnish lady curtsied very deeply as she recognised us, and hastened to cook our coffee
and reindeer, and to make us a good bed with sheets. On our former visit the old lady and her
sons had watched us undress and get into bed, but on this occasion three buxom daughters, of
ages ranging from sixteen to twenty-two, appeared about the time for retiring, and stationed
themselves in a row near the door, where they watched us with silent curiosity. As we had shown
no hesitation in the first case, we determined to be equally courageous now, and commenced
removing our garments with great deliberation, allowing them every opportunity of inspecting
their fashion and the manner of wearing them. The work thus proceeded in mutual silence until
we were nearly ready for repose, when Braisted, by pulling off a stocking and displaying a
muscular calf, suddenly alarmed the youngest, who darted to the door and rushed out. The second
caught the panic, and followed, and the third and oldest was therefore obliged to do likewise,
though with evident reluctance. I was greatly amused at such an unsophisticated display of
curiosity. The perfect composure of the girls, and the steadiness with which they watched us,
showed that they were quite unconscious of having committed any impropriety.

The morning was clear and cold. Our deer had strayed so far into the woods that we did not
get under way before the forenoon twilight commenced. We expected to find a broken road down
the Muonio, but a heavy snow had fallen the day previous, and the track was completely filled.
Long Isaac found so much difficulty in taking the lead, his deer constantly bolting from the
path, that Anton finally relieved him, and by standing upright in the pulk and thumping the
deer's flanks, succeeded in keeping up the animal's spirits and forcing a way. It was slow
work, however, and the sun, rolling his whole disc above the horizon, announced midday before
we reached Kyrkessuando. As we drove up to the little inn, we were boisterously welcomed by
Häl, Herr Forström's brown wolf-dog, who had strayed thus far from home. Our deer were beginning
to give out, and we were very anxious to reach Muoniovara in time for dinner, so we only waited
long enough to give the animals a feed of moss and procure some hot milk for ourselves.

The snow-storm, which had moved over a narrow belt of country, had not extended below this
place, and the road was consequently well broken. We urged our deer into a fast trot, and slid
down the icy floor of the Muonio, past hills whose snows flashed scarlet and rose-orange in
the long splendour of sunset. Hunger and the fatigue which our journey was producing at last,
made us extremely sensitive to the cold, though it was not more than 20° below zero. My blood
became so chilled, that I was apprehensive the extremities would freeze, and the most vigorous
motion of the muscles barely sufficed to keep at bay the numbness which attacked them. At dusk
we drove through Upper Muonioniska, and our impatience kept the reindeers so well in motion
that before five o'clock (although long after dark,) we were climbing the well-known slope
to Herr Forström's house at Muoniovara. Here we found the merchant, not yet departed to the
Lapp fair at Karessuando, and Mr. Wolley, who welcomed us with the cordiality of an old friend.
Our snug room at the carpenter's was already warmed and set in order, and after our reindeer
drive of 250 miles through the wildest parts of Lapland, we felt a home-like sense of happiness
and comfort in smoking our pipes before the familiar iron stove.

The trip to Kautokeino embraced about all I saw of Lapp life during the winter journey. The
romance of the tribe, as I have already said, has totally departed with their conversion, while
their habits of life scarcely improved in the least, are sufficiently repulsive to prevent
any closer experience than I have had, unless the gain were greater. Mr. Wolley, who had been
three years in Lapland, also informed me that the superstitious and picturesque traditions
of the people have almost wholly disappeared, and the coarse mysticism and rant which they
have engrafted upon their imperfect Christianity does not differ materially from the same excrescence
in more civilised races. They have not even (the better for them, it is true) any characteristic
and picturesque vices--but have become, certainly to their own great advantage, a pious, fanatical,
moral, ignorant and commonplace people. I have described them exactly as I found them, and
as they have been described to me by those who knew them well. The readers of "Afraja" may
be a little disappointed with the picture, as I confess I have been (in an artistic sense,
only) with the reality; but the Lapps have lost many vices with their poetic diablerie, and
nobody has a right to complain.

It is a pity that many traits which are really characteristic and interesting in a people cannot
be mentioned on account of that morbid prudery so prevalent in our day, which insults the unconscious
innocence of nature. Oh, that one could imitate the honest unreserve of the old travellers--the
conscientiousness which insisted on telling not only the truth, but the whole truth! This is
scarcely possible, now; but at the same time I have not been willing to emasculate my accounts
of the tribes of men to the extent perhaps required by our ultra-conventionalism, and must
insist, now and then, on being allowed a little Flemish fidelity to nature. In the description
of races, as in the biography of individuals, the most important half of life is generally omitted.

CHAPTER XIII.

ABOUT THE FINNS.

We remained but another day in Muoniovara, after our return from Kautokeino, and this was devoted
to preparations for the return journey to Haparanda. My first intention had been to make an
excursion across the country to the iron mountains of Gellivara, thence to Quickjock, at the
foot of the Northern Alp, Sulitelma, "Queen of Snows," and so southward through the heart of
Swedish Lappmark; but I found that such a journey would be attended with much difficulty and
delay. In the first place, there were no broken roads at this season, except on the routes
of inland trade; much of the intermediate country is a wilderness, where one must camp many
nights in the snow; food was very scarce, the Lapps having hardly enough for their own necessities,
and the delays at every place where guides and reindeer must be changed, would have prolonged
the journey far beyond the time which I had allotted to the North. I began to doubt, also,
whether one would be sufficiently repaid for the great fatigue and danger which such a trip
would have involved. There is no sensation of which one wearies sooner than disgust; and, much
as I enjoy a degree of barbarism in milder climates, I suspected that a long companionship
with Lapps in a polar winter would be a little too much for me. So I turned my face toward
Stockholm, heartily glad that I had made the journey, yet not dissatisfied that I was looking
forward to its termination.

Before setting out on our return, I shall devote a few pages to the Finns. For the principal
facts concerning them, I am mostly indebted to Mr. Wolley, whose acquaintance with the language,
and residence of three years in Lapland, have made him perfectly familiar with the race. As
I have already remarked, they are a more picturesque people than the Swedes, with stronger
lights and shades of character, more ardent temperaments, and a more deeply-rooted national
feeling. They seem to be rather clannish and exclusive, in fact, disliking both Swedes and
Russians, and rarely intermarrying with them. The sharply-defined boundaries of language and
race, at the head of the Bothnian Gulf, are a striking evidence of this. Like their distant
relatives, the Hungarian Magyars, they retain many distinct traces of their remote Asiatic
origin. It is partly owing to this fact, and partly to that curious approach of extremes which
we observe in nature no less than in humanity, that all suggestive traits of resemblance in
these regions point to the Orient rather than to Europe.

I have already described the physical characteristics of the Finns, and have nothing to add,
except that I found the same type everywhere, even among the mixed-blooded Quäns of Kautokeino--high
cheek-bones, square, strong jaws, full yet firm lips, low, broad foreheads, dark eyes and hair,
and a deeper, warmer red on the cheeks than on those of the rosy Swedes. The average height
is, perhaps, not quite equal to that of the latter race, but in physical vigor I can see no
inferiority, and there are among them many men of splendid stature, strength, and proportion.
Von Buch ascribes the marked difference of stature between the Finns and the Lapps, both living
under precisely the same influences of climate, to the more cleanly habits of the former and
their constant use of the vapor-bath; but I have always found that blood and descent, even
where the variation from the primitive stock is but slight, are more potent than climate or
custom. The Finns have been so long christianised and civilised (according to the European
idea of civilisation), that whatever peculiar characteristic they retain must be looked for
mainly in those habits which illustrate their mental and moral natures. In their domestic life,
they correspond in most particulars to the Swedes of the same class.

They are passionate, and therefore prone to excesses--imaginative, and therefore, owing to
their scanty education, superstitious. Thus the religious element, especially the fantastic
aberrations thereof engendered by Lestadius and other missionaries, while it has tended greatly
to repress the vice, has in the same proportion increased the weakness. Drunkenness, formerly
so prevalent as to be the curse of Lapland, is now exceedingly rare, and so are the crimes
for which it is responsible. The most flagrant case which has occurred in the neighborhood
of Muoniovara for some years past, was that of a woman who attempted to poison her father-in-law
by mixing the scrapings of lucifer matches with his coffee, in order to get rid of the burden
of supporting him. Although the evidence was very convincing, the matter was hushed up, in
order to avoid a scandal upon the Church, the woman being a steadfast member. In regard to
drunkenness, I have heard it stated that, while it was formerly no unusual thing for a Finn
to be frozen to death in this condition, the same catastrophe never befell a Lapp, owing to
his mechanical habit of keeping his arms and feet in motion--a habit which he preserves even
while utterly stupefied and unconscious.

A singular spiritual epidemic ran through Polar Finland three or four years ago, contemporary
with the religious excitement in Norwegian Lapland, and partly occasioned by the same reckless
men. It consisted of sobbings, strong nervous convulsions, and occasional attacks of that state
of semi-consciousness called trance, the subjects of which were looked upon as having been
possessed by the Spirit, and transported to the other world, where visions like those of John
on Patmos, were revealed to them. The missionaries, instead of repressing this unhealthy delusion,
rather encouraged it, and even went so far as to publish as supernatural revelations, the senseless
ravings of these poor deluded people. The epidemic spread until there was scarcely a family
some member of which was not affected by it, and even yet it has not wholly subsided. The fit
would come upon the infected persons at any time, no matter where they were, or how employed.
It usually commenced with a convulsive catching of the breath, which increased in violence,
accompanied by sobbing, and sometimes by cries or groans, until the victim was either exhausted
or fell into a trance, which lasted some hours. The persons who were affected were always treated
with the greatest respect during the attack no one ventured to smile, no matter how absurd
a form the visitation might take. The principle of abstinence from strong drinks was promulgated
about the same time, and much of the temperance of the Finns and Lapps is undoubtedly owing
the impression made upon their natures by these phenomena.

The same epidemic has often prevailed in the United States, England and Germany. The barking
and dancing mania which visited Kentucky thirty or forty years ago, and the performances of
the "Holy Rollers," were even more ludicrous and unnatural. Such appearances are a puzzle alike
to the physiologist and the philosopher; their frequency shows that they are based on some
weak spot in human nature; and in proportion as we pity the victims we have a right to condemn
those who sow the seeds of the pestilence. True religion is never spasmodic; it is calm as
the existence of God. I know of nothing more shocking than such attempts to substitute rockets
and blue lights for Heaven's eternal sunshine.

So far as regards their moral character, the Finns have as little cause for reproach as any
other people. We found them as universally honest and honourable in their dealings as the Northern
Swedes, who are not surpassed in the world in this respect. Yet their countenances express
more cunning and reserve, and the virtue may be partly a negative one, resulting from that
indolence which characterises the frigid and the torrid zone. Thus, also, notwithstanding physical
signs which denote more ardent animal passions than their neighbors, they are equally chaste,
and have as high a standard of sexual purity. Illegitimate births are quite rare, and are looked
upon as a lasting shame and disgrace to both parties. The practice of "bundling" which, until
recently, was very common among Finnish lovers, very seldom led to such results, and their
marriage speedily removed the dishonour. Their manners, socially, in this respect, are curiously
contradictory. Thus, while both sexes freely mingle in the bath, in a state of nature, while
the women unhesitatingly scrub, rub and dry their husbands, brothers or male friends, while
the salutation for both sexes is an embrace with the right arm, a kiss is considered grossly
immodest and improper. A Finnish woman expressed the greatest astonishment and horror, at hearing
from Mr. Wolley that it was a very common thing in England for a husband and wife to kiss each
other. "If my husband were to attempt such a thing," said she, "I would beat him about the
ears so that he would feel it for a week." Yet in conversation they are very plain and unreserved,
though by no means gross. They acknowledge that such things as generation, gestation and parturition
exist, and it may be that this very absence of mystery tends to keep chaste so excitable and
imaginative a race.

Notwithstanding their superstition, their love of poetry, and the wild, rich, musical character
of their language, there is a singular absence of legendary lore in this part of Finland. Perhaps
this is owing to the fact that their ancestors have emigrated hither, principally within the
last two centuries, from the early home of the race--Tavastland, the shores of the Pajana Lake,
and the Gulf of Finland. It is a difficult matter to preserve family traditions among them,
or even any extended genealogical record, from the circumstance that a Finn takes his name,
not only from his father's surname, but from his residence. Thus, Isaaki takes the name of
"Anderinpoika" from his father Anderi, and adds "Niemi," the local name of his habitation.
His son Nils will be called Nils Isakipoika, with the addition of the name of his residence,
wherever that may be; and his family name will be changed as often as his house. There may
be a dozen different names in the course of one generation, and the list soon becomes too complicated
and confused for an uneducated memory. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Finn knows very
little except about what happened during his own life, or, at best, his father's. I never heard
the Kalewala spoken of, and doubt very much whether it is known to the natives of this region.
The only songs we heard, north of Haparanda, were hymns--devout, but dismal. There must be
ballads and household songs yet alive, but the recent spiritual fever has silenced them for
the time.

I was at first a little surprised to find the natives of the North so slow, indolent and improvident.
We have an idea that a cold climate is bracing and stimulating--ergo, the further north you
go, the more active and energetic you will find the people. But the touch of ice is like that
of fire. The tropics relax, the pole benumbs, and the practical result is the same in both
cases. In the long, long winter, when there are but four hours of twilight to twenty of darkness--when
the cows are housed, the wood cut, the hay gathered, the barley bran and fir bark stowed away
for bread, and the summer's catch of fish salted--what can a man do, when his load of wood
or hay is hauled home, but eat, gossip and sleep? To bed at nine, and out of it at eight in
the morning, smoking and dozing between the slow performance of his few daily duties, he becomes
at last as listless and dull as a hibernating bear. In the summer he has perpetual daylight,
and need not hurry. Besides, why should he give himself special trouble to produce an unusually
large crop of flax or barley, when a single night may make his labours utterly profitless?
Even in midsummer the blighting frost may fall: nature seems to take a cruel pleasure in thwarting
him: he is fortunate only through chance; and thus a sort of Arab fatalism and acquiescence
in whatever happens, takes possession of him. His improvidence is also to be ascribed to the
same cause. Such fearful famine and suffering as existed in Finland and Lapland during the
winter of 1856-7 might no doubt have been partially prevented, but no human power could have
wholly forestalled it.

The polar zone was never designed for the abode of man. In the pre-Adamite times, when England
was covered with palm-forests, and elephants ranged through Siberia, things may have been widely
different, and the human race then (if there was any) may have planted vineyards on these frozen
hills and lived in bamboo huts. But since the geological émeutes and revolutions, and the establishment
of the terrestrial régime, I cannot for the life of me see whatever induced beings endowed
with human reason, to transplant themselves hither and here take root, while such vast spaces
lie waste and useless in more genial climes. A man may be pardoned for remaining where the
providences of birth and education have thrown him, but I cannot excuse the first colonists
for inflicting such a home upon centuries of descendants. Compare even their physical life--the
pure animal satisfaction in existence, for that is not a trifling matter after all--with that
of the Nubians, or the Malays, or the Polynesians! It is the difference between a poor hare,
hunted and worried year after year by hounds and visions of hounds and the familiar, confiding
wren, happiest of creatures, because secure of protection everywhere. Oh that the circle of
the ecliptic would coincide with that of the equator! That the sun would shine from pole to
pole for evermore, and all lands be habitable and hospitable, and the Saharan sands (according
to Fourier) be converted into bowers of the Hesperides, and the bitter salt of the ocean brine
(vide the same author) become delicious champagne punch, wherein it would be pleasure to drown!
But I am afraid that mankind is not yet fit for such a millennium.

Meanwhile it is truly comforting to find that even here, where men live under such discouraging
circumstances that one would charitably forgive them the possession of many vices, they are,
according to their light, fully as true, and honest, and pure, as the inhabitants of the most
favoured countries in the world. Love for each other, trust in each other, faith in God, are
all vital among them; and their shortcomings are so few and so easily accounted for, that one
must respect them and feel that his faith in man is not lessened in knowing them. You who spend
your lives at home can never know how much good there is in the world. In rude unrefined races,
evil naturally rises to the surface, and one can discern the character of the stream beneath
its scum. It is only in the highest civilisation where the outside is goodly to the eye, too
often concealing an interior foul to the core.

But I have no time to moralise on these matters. My duty is that of a chronicler; and if I
perform that conscientiously, the lessons which my observations suggest will need no pointing
out. I cannot close this chapter, however, without confessing my obligations to Mr. Wolley,
whose thorough knowledge of the Lapps and Finns enabled me to test the truth of my own impressions,
and to mature opinions which I should otherwise, from my own short experience, have hesitated
in stating. Mr. Wolley, with that pluck and persistence of English character which Emerson
so much admires, had made himself master of all that Lapland can furnish to the traveller,
but intended remaining another year for scientific purposes. If he gives to the world--as I
hope and trust he will--the result of this long and patient inquiry and investigation, we shall
have at last a standard authority for this little-known corner of Europe. We were also indebted
to Mr. Wolley for much personal kindness, which I take pleasure in acknowledging in the only
way he cannot prevent.

CHAPTER XIV.

EXPERIENCES OF ARCTIC WEATHER.

We bade a final adieu to Muoniovara on the afternoon of the 24th of January, leaving Mr. Wolley
to wait for June and the birds in that dismal seclusion. Instead of resuming skjuts, we engaged
horses as far as Kengis from Herr Forström and a neighbouring Finn, with a couple of shock-headed
natives as postillions. Our sleds were mounted upon two rough Finnish sledges, the only advantage
of which was to make harder work for the horses--but the people would have it so. The sun was
down, but a long, long twilight succeeded, with some faint show of a zodiacal light. There
was a tolerable track on the river, but our Finns walked their horses the whole way, and we
were nearly seven hours in making Parkajoki. The air was very sharp; my nose, feet and hands
kept me busily employed, and I began to fear that I was becoming unusually sensitive to cold,
for the thermometer indicated but 15° below zero when we started. At Parkajoki, however, my
doubts were removed and my sensations explained, on finding that the temperature had fallen
to 44° below.

We slept warmly and well on our old bed of reindeer skins, in one corner of the milk-room.
When Braisted, who rose first, opened the door, a thick white mist burst in and rolled heavily
along the floor. I went out, attired only in my shirt and drawers, to have a look at the weather.
I found the air very still and keen, though not painfully cold--but I was still full of the
warmth of sleep. The mercury, however, had sunk into the very bulb of the thermometer, and
was frozen so solid that I held it in the full glare of the fire for about a minute and a half
before it thawed sufficiently to mount. The temperature was probably 50° below zero, if not
more--greater than any we had yet experienced. But it was six o'clock, and we must travel.
Fortifying ourselves with coffee and a little meat, and relying for defence in case of extremity
on a bottle of powerful rum with which we had supplied ourselves, we muffled up with more than
usual care, and started for Kihlangi.

We devoted ourselves entirely to keeping warm, and during the ride of six hours suffered very
little except from the gradual diminution of our bodily temperature. It was a dreary journey,
following the course of the Muonio between black, snow-laden forests. The sun rose to a height
of seven or eight degrees at meridian; when we came over the same road, on our way north, he
only showed half his disc. At Kihlangi the people recognised us, and were as well disposed
as their stupidity would allow. The old woman cooked part of our reindeer joint, which, with
half a dozen cups of strong coffee, brought back a comfortable warmth to our extremities. There
were still twenty-four miles to be traversed; the horses were already exhausted, and the temperature
only rose to -42° at midday, after which it fell again. We had a terrible journey. Step by
step the horses slowly pulled us through the snow, every hour seeming lengthened to a day,
as we worked our benumbed fingers and toes until the muscles were almost powerless, and yet
it was dangerous to cease. Gradually the blood grew colder in the main channels; insidious
chills succeeded, followed by a drowsy torpor, like that which is produced by a heavy dose
of opium, until we were fain to have recourse to the rum, a horrid, vitriolic beverage, which
burned our throats and stomachs like melted lead, yet gave us a temporary relief.

We almost despaired of reaching Jokijalka, on finding, about ten o'clock at night, that our
postillions had taken us to the village of Kolare, and stopped before a large log house, where
they seemed to think we would spend the night. Everybody had gone to bed, we knew not where
we were, and had set our hearts upon the comfortable guest's room at Jokijalka. It was impossible
to make the fellows understand me, but they saw that we were angry, and after a short consultation
passed on. We again entered the snowy woods, which were dimly lighted up by an aurora behind
us--a strange, mysterious, ghastly illumination, like the phosphorescent glow of a putrefying
world. We were desperately cold, our very blood freezing in our veins, and our limbs numb and
torpid. To keep entirely awake was impossible. We talked incessantly, making random answers,
as continual fleeting dreams crossed the current of our consciousness. A heavy thump on the
back was pardoned by him who received it, and a punch between the eyes would have been thankfully
accepted had it been necessary.

At last, at last, Kolare church on the river bank came in sight; we crossed to the Russian
side, and drove into the yard of the inn. It was nearly midnight, 47° below zero, and we had
been for seventeen hours exposed to such a temperature. Everybody had long been asleep. Locks
and bolts are unknown, however, so we rushed into the family room, lit fir splinters, and inspected
the faces of the sleeping group until we found the landlord, who arose and kindled a fresh
fire in the milk-room. They made us coffee and a small bed, saying that the guest's room was
too cold, which indeed it was, being little less than the outside temperature. On opening the
door in the morning, the cold air rushed in as thick and white as steam. We had a little meat
cooked, but could not eat enough, at such an early hour, to supply much fuel. As for taking
anything with us for refreshment on the road, it was out of the question. One of our Finns
turned back to Muoniovara with the laziest horse, and we got another from our Russian landlord.
But it was a long, long journey to the next station (twenty miles), and the continuance of
the extreme cold began to tell upon us. This part of the road was very heavy, as on the journey
up--seemingly a belt of exposed country where the snow drifts more than elsewhere.

At Kexisvara we found two of the three pleasant women, who cooked our last fragment of reindeer
meat, and sent off for horses to Kardis. We here parted with our other Finn, very glad to get
rid of his horse, and take a fresh start. We had no difficulty now in making our way with the
people, as they all recognised us and remembered our overpayments; besides which, I had enlarged
my Finnish vocabulary at Muoniovara. Our horses were better, our sledges lighter and we were
not long in reaching the iron-works at Kengis, which we passed at dusk. I should willingly
have called upon the hospitable bruk-patron, but we were in too great a hurry to get out of
the frigid zone. We were warmed by our meal, and sang lustily as we slid down the Torneå, finding
its dreary, sparsely-settled banks cheerful and smiling by contrast with the frightful solitudes
we had left. After some hours the postillion stopped before a house on the Swedish bank to
hay his horses. We went up and found a single inhabitant, a man who was splitting fir for torches,
but the conversation was limited to alternate puffs from our pipes. There was a fine aurora
behind us--a low arch of white fire, with streamers radiating outward, shifting and dancing
along its curve.

It was nearly ten o'clock before we reached Kardis, half unconscious from the cold. Our horse
ran into the wrong place, and we lost sight of the baggage-sled, our only guide in the darkness.
We could no longer trust the animal's instinct, but had to depend on our own, which is perhaps
truer: at least, I have often found in myself traces of that blind, unreasoning faculty which
guides the bee and the bird, and have never been deceived in trusting to it. We found the inn,
and carried a cloud of frozen vapor into the kitchen with us, as we opened the door. The graceful
wreaths of ice-smoke rolled before our feet, as before those of ascending saints in the old
pictures, but ourselves, hair from head to foot, except two pairs of eyes, which looked out
through icy loop-holes, resembled the reverse of saints. I told the landlord in Finnish that
we wanted to sleep--"mia tarvi nuku á." He pointed to a bed in the corner, out of which rose
a sick girl, of about seventeen, very pale, and evidently suffering. They placed some benches
near the fire, removed the bedding, and disposed her as comfortably as the place permitted.
We got some hot milk and hard bread, threw some reindeer skins on the vacant truck, and lay
down, but not to sleep much. The room was so close and warm, and the dozen persons in it so
alternately snoring and restless, that our rest was continually disturbed. We, therefore, rose
early and aroused the lazy natives.

The cold was still at 47° below zero. The roads were so much better, however, that we descended
again to our own runners, and our lively horses trotted rapidly down the Torneå. The signs
of settlement and comparative civilisation which now increased with every mile were really
cheering. Part of our way lay through the Swedish woods and over the intervening morasses,
where the firs were hung with weepers of black-green moss, and stood solid and silent in their
mantles of snow, lighted with a magnificent golden flush at sunrise. The morning was icy-clear
and dazzling. There was not the least warmth in the sun's rays, but it was pleasant to see
him with a white face once more. We could still stare at him without winking, but the reflection
from the jewelled snow pained our eyes. The cold was so keen that we were obliged to keep our
faces buried between our caps and boas, leaving only the smallest possible vacancy for the
eyes. This was exceedingly disagreeable, on account of the moisture from the breath, which
kept the squirrel tails constantly wet and sticky. Nevertheless, the cold penetrated through
the little aperture; my eyes and forehead were like marble, the eyeballs like lumps of ice,
sending a sharp pang of cold backward into the brain. I realised distinctly how a statue must feel.

Beyond Pello, where we stopped to "fire up," our road lay mostly on the Russian side. While
crossing the Torneå at sunset, we met a drove of seventy or eighty reindeer, in charge of a
dozen Lapps, who were bringing a cargo from Haparanda. We were obliged to turn off the road
and wait until they had passed. The landlord at Juoxengi, who was quite drunk, hailed us with
a shout and a laugh, and began talking about Kautokeino. We had some difficulty in getting
rid of his conversation, and his importunities for us to stay all night. This was the place
where they tried to make us leave, on the way up. I replied to the landlord's torrent of Finnish
with some choice specimens of Kentucky oratory, which seemed to make but little impression
on him. He gave us excellent horses, however, and we sped away again, by the light of another
brilliant auroral arch.

Our long exposure to the extreme cold, coupled as it was with lack of rest and nourishment,
now began to tell upon us. Our temperature fell so low that we again had recourse to the rum,
which alone, I verily believe, prevented us from freezing bodily. One is locked in the iron
embrace of the polar air, until the very life seems to be squeezed out of him. I huddled myself
in my poesk, worked my fingers and toes, buried my nose in the damp, frozen fur, and laboured
like a Hercules to keep myself awake and alive--but almost in vain. Braisted and I kept watch
over each other, or attempted it, for about the only consciousness either of us had was that
of the peril of falling asleep. We talked of anything and everything, sang, thumped each other,
but the very next minute would catch ourselves falling over the side of the sled. A thousand
dreams worried my brain and mixed themselves with my talk; and the absurdities thus created
helped to arouse me. Speaking of seeing some wolves in the woods of California, I gravely continued:
"I took out my sword, sharpened it on the grindstone and dared him to come on," when a punch
in the ribs stopped me. Another time, while talking of hippopotami in the White Nile, I said:
"If you want any skins, you must go to the Hudson's Bay Company. They have a depôt of them
on Vancouver's Island." Braisted gave me much trouble, by assuring me in the most natural wide-awake
voice that he was not in the least sleepy, when the reins had dropped from his hands and his
head rocked on his shoulder. I could never be certain whether he was asleep or awake. Our only
plan was not to let the conversation flag a minute.

At Torakankorwa we changed horses without delay, and hurried on to Matarengi. On turning out
of the road to avoid a hay-sled, we were whirled completely over. There was no fun in this,
at such a time. I fell head foremost into deep snow, getting a lump in my right eye, which
completely blinded me for a time. My forehead, eyebrows, and the bridge of my nose were insufferably
painful. On reaching Matarengi I found my nose frozen through, and considerably swollen. The
people were in bed, but we went into the kitchen, where a dozen or more were stowed about,
and called for the landlord. Three young girls, who were in bed in one corner, rose and dressed
themselves in our presence without the least hesitation, boiled some milk, and gave us bread
and butter. We had a single small bed, which kept us warm by obliging us to lie close. Sometime
in the night, two Swedes arrived, who blustered about and made so much noise, that Braisted
finally silenced them by threats of personal violence, delivered in very good English.

In the morning the mercury froze, after showing 49° below zero. The cold was by this time rather
alarming, especially after our experiences of the previous day. The air was hazy with the fine,
frozen atoms of moisture, a raw wind blew from the north, the sky was like steel which has
been breathed upon--in short, the cold was visible to the naked eye. We warmed our gloves and
boots, and swathed our heads so completely that not a feature was to be seen. I had a little
loophole between my cap and boa, but it was soon filled up with frost from my breath, and helped
to keep in the warmth. The road was hard and smooth as marble. We had good horses, and leaving
Avasaxa and the polar circle behind us, we sped down the solid bed of the Torneå to Niemis.
On the second stage we began to freeze for want of food. The air was really terrible; nobody
ventured out of doors who could stay in the house. The smoke was white and dense, like steam;
the wind was a blast from the Norseman's hell, and the touch of it on your face almost made
you scream. Nothing can be more severe--flaying, branding with a hot iron, cutting with a dull
knife, &c., may be something like it, but no worse.

The sun rose through the frozen air a little after nine, and mounted quite high at noon. At
Päckilä we procured some hot milk and smoked reindeer, tolerable horses and a stout boy of
fourteen to drive our baggage-sled. Every one we met had a face either frozen, or about to
freeze. Such a succession of countenances, fiery red, purple, blue, black almost, with white
frost spots, and surrounded with rings of icy hair and fur, I never saw before. We thanked
God again and again that our faces were turned southward, and that the deadly wind was blowing
on our backs. When we reached Korpikilä, our boy's face, though solid and greasy as a bag of
lard, was badly frozen. His nose was quite white and swollen, as if blistered by fire, and
there were frozen blotches on both cheeks. The landlord rubbed the parts instantly with rum,
and performed the same operation on our noses.

On this day, for the first time in more than a month, we saw daylight, and I cannot describe
how cheering was the effect of those pure, white, brilliant rays, in spite of the iron landscape
they illumined. It was no longer the setting light of the level Arctic sun; not the twilight
gleams of shifting colour, beautiful, but dim; not the faded, mock daylight which sometimes
glimmered for a half-hour at noon; but the true white, full, golden day, which we had almost
forgotten. So nearly, indeed, that I did not for some time suspect the cause of the unusual
whiteness and brightness. Its effect upon the trees was superb. The twigs of the birch and
the needles of the fir were coated with crystal, and sparkled like jets of jewels spouted up
from the immaculate snow. The clumps of birches can be compared to nothing but frozen fountains--frozen
in full action, with their showery sheaves of spray arrested before they fell. It was a wonderful,
a fairy world we beheld--too beautiful to be lifeless, but every face we met reminded us the
more that this was the chill beauty of Death--of dead Nature. Death was in the sparkling air,
in the jewelled trees, in the spotless snow. Take off your mitten, and his hand will grasp
yours like a vice; uncover your mouth, and your frozen lips will soon acknowledge his kiss.

Even while I looked the same icy chills were running through my blood, precursors of that drowsy
torpor which I was so anxious to avoid. But no; it would come, and I dozed until both hands
became so stiff that it was barely possible to restore their powers of motion and feeling.
It was not quite dark when we reached Kuckula, the last station, but thence to Haparanda our
horses were old and lazy, and our postillion was a little boy, whose weak voice had no effect.
Braisted kept his hands warm in jerking and urging, but I sat and froze. Village after village
was passed, but we looked in vain for the lights of Torneå. We were thoroughly exhausted with
our five days' battle against the dreadful cold, when at last a row of lights gleamed across
the river, and we drove up to the inn. The landlord met us with just the same words as on the
first visit, and, strange enough, put us into the same room, where the same old Norrland merchant
was again quartered in the same stage of tipsiness. The kind Fredrika did not recognise us
in our Lapp dresses, until I had unrobed, when she cried out in joyful surprise, "Why, you
were here before!"

We had been so completely chilled that it was a long time before any perceptible warmth returned.
But a generous meal, with a bottle of what was called "gammal scherry" (though the Devil and
his servants, the manufacturers of chemical wines, only knew what it was), started the flagging
circulation. We then went to bed, tingling and stinging in every nerve from the departing cold.
Every one complained of the severity of the weather, which, we were told, had not been equalled
for many years past. But such a bed, and such a rest as I had! Lying between clean sheets,
with my feet buried in soft fur, I wallowed in a flood of downy, delicious sensations until
sunrise. In the morning we ventured to wash our faces and brush our teeth for the first time
in five days, put on clean shirts, and felt once more like responsible beings. The natives
never wash when the weather is so cold, and cautioned us against it. The wind had fallen but
the mercury again froze at 47° below zero. Nevertheless, we went out after breakfast to call
upon Dr. Wretholm, and walk over the Torneå.

The old Doctor was overjoyed to see us again. "Ah!" said he, "it is a good fortune that you
have got back alive. When the weather was so cold, I thought of you, travelling over the Norwegian
fjeller, and thought you must certainly be frozen to death." His wife was no less cordial in
her welcome. They brought us ale and Swedish punch, with reindeer cheese for our frozen noses,
and insisted on having their horse put into the sled to take us over to Torneå and bring us
back to dinner. The doctor's boy drove us, facing the wind with our faces exposed, at -42°,
but one night's rest and good food enabled us to bear it without inconvenience. Torneå is a
plain Swedish town, more compactly built than Haparanda, yet scarcely larger. The old church
is rather picturesque, and there were some tolerable houses, which appeared to be government
buildings, but the only things particularly Russian which we noticed were a Cossack sentry,
whose purple face showed that he was nearly frozen, and a guide-post with "150 versts to Uleaborg"
upon it. On returning to the Doctor's we found a meal ready, with a capital salad of frozen
salmon, bouillon, ale, and coffee. The family were reading the Swedish translation of "Dred"
in the Aftonblad, and were interested in hearing some account of Mrs. Beecher Stowe. We had
a most agreeable and interesting visit to these kind, simple-hearted people.

I made a sunset sketch of Torneå. I proposed also to draw Fredrika, but she at once refused,
in great alarm. "Not for anything in the world," said she, "would I have it done!" What superstitious
fears possessed her I could not discover. We made arrangements to start for Kalix the next
day, on our way to Stockholm. The extreme temperature still continued. The air was hazy with
the frozen moisture--the smoke froze in solid masses--the snow was brittle and hard as metal--iron
stuck like glue--in short, none of the signs of an Arctic winter were wanting. Nevertheless,
we trusted to the day's rest and fatter fare on the road for strength to continue the battle.

CHAPTER XV.

INCIDENTS OF THE RETURN JOURNEY.

We left Haparanda on the 30th of January. After six days of true Arctic weather--severer than
any registered by De Haven's expedition, during a winter in the polar ice--the temperature
rose suddenly to 26° below zero. We were happy and jolly at getting fairly started for Stockholm
at last, and having such mild (!) weather to travel in. The difference in our sensations was
remarkable. We could boldly bare our faces and look about us; our feet kept warm and glowing,
and we felt no more the hazardous chill and torpor of the preceding days. On the second stage
the winter road crossed an arm of the Bothnian Gulf. The path was well marked out with fir-trees--a
pretty avenue, four or five miles in length, over the broad, white plain. On the way we saw
an eruption of the ice, which had been violently thrown up by the confined air. Masses three
feet thick and solid as granite were burst asunder and piled atop of each other.

We travelled too fast this day for the proper enjoyment of the wonderful scenery on the road.
I thought I had exhausted my admiration of these winter forests--but no, miracles will never
cease. Such fountains, candelabra, Gothic pinnacles, tufts of plumes, colossal sprays of coral,
and the embodiments of the fairy pencillings of frost on window panes, wrought in crystal and
silver, are beyond the power of pen or pencil. It was a wilderness of beauty; we knew not where
to look, nor which forms to choose, in the dazzling confusion. Silent and all unmoved by the
wind they stood, sharp and brittle as of virgin ore--not trees of earth, but the glorified
forests of All-Father Odin's paradise, the celestial city of Asgaard. No living forms of vegetation
are so lovely. Tropical palms, the tree-ferns of Penang, the lotus of Indian rivers, the feathery
bamboo, the arrowy areca--what are they beside these marvellous growths of winter, these shining
sprays of pearl, ivory and opal, gleaming in the soft orange light of the Arctic sun?

At Sängis we met a handsome young fellow with a moustache, who proved to be the Länsman of
Kalix. I was surprised to find that he knew all about us. He wondered at our coming here north,
when we might stay at home thought once would be enough for us, and had himself been no further
than Stockholm. I recognised our approach to Näsby by the barrels set in the snow--an ingenious
plan of marking the road in places where the snow drifts, as the wind creates a whirl or eddy
around them. We were glad to see Näsby and its two-story inn once more. The pleasant little
handmaiden smiled all over her face when she saw us again. Näsby is a crack place: the horses
were ready at once, and fine creatures they were, taking us up the Kalix to Månsbyn, eight
miles in one hour. The road was hard as a rock and smooth as a table, from much ploughing and
rolling.

The next day was dark and lowering, threatening snow, with a raw wind from the north-west,
and an average temperature of 15° below zero. We turned the north-western corner of the Bothnian
Gulf in the afternoon, and pushed on to Old Luleå by supper-time. At Persö, on the journey
north, I had forgotten my cigar-case, an old, familiar friend of some years' standing, and
was overjoyed to find that the servant-girl had carefully preserved it, thinking I might return
some day. We drove through the streets of empty stables and past the massive church of Old
Luleå, to the inn, where we had before met the surly landlord. There he was again, and the
house was full, as the first time. However we obtained the promise of a bed in the large room,
and meanwhile walked up and down to keep ourselves warm. The guests' rooms were filled with
gentlemen of the neighborhood, smoking and carousing. After an hour had passed, a tall, handsome,
strong fellow came out of the rooms, and informed us that as we were strangers he would give
up the room to us and seek lodgings elsewhere. He had drunk just enough to be mellow and happy,
and insisted on delaying his own supper to let us eat first. Who should come along at this
juncture but the young fellow we had seen in company with Brother Horton at Månsbyn, who hailed
us with: "Thank you for the last time!" With him was a very gentlemanly man who spoke English.
They were both accompanied by ladies, and were returning from the ball of Piteå. The guests
all treated us with great courtesy and respect, and the landlord retired and showed his surly
face no more. Our first friend informed me that he had been born and brought up in the neighborhood,
but could not recollect such a severe winter.

As we descended upon the Luleå River in the morning we met ten sleighs coming from the ball.
The horses were all in requisition at the various stations, but an extra supply had been provided,
and we were not detained anywhere. The Norrland sleds are so long that a man may place his
baggage in the front part and lie down at full length behind it. A high back shields the traveller
from the wind, and upon a step in the rear stands the driver, with a pair of reins as long
as a main-top-bowline, in order to reach the horse, who is at the opposite end of a very long
pair of shafts. In these sleds one may travel with much comfort, and less danger of overturning,
though not so great speed as in the short, light, open frames we bought in Sundsvall. The latter
are seldom seen so far north, and were a frequent object of curiosity to the peasants at the
stations. There is also a sled with a body something like a Hansom cab, entirely closed, with
a window in front, but they are heavy, easily overturned, and only fit for luxurious travellers.

We approached Piteå at sunset. The view over the broad embouchure of the river, studded with
islands, was quite picturesque, and the town itself, scattered along the shore and over the
slopes of the hills made a fair appearance. It reminded me somewhat of a small New-England
country town, with its square frame houses and an occasional garden. Here I was rejoiced by
the sight of a cherry-tree, the most northern fruit-tree which I saw. On our way up, we thought
Piteå, at night and in a snow-storm, next door to the North Pole. Now, coming from the north,
seeing its snowy hills and house-roofs rosy with the glow of sunset, it was warm and southern
by contrast. The four principal towns of West and North Bothnia are thus characterised in an
old verse of Swedish doggerel: Umeå, the fine; Piteå, the needle-making; Luleå, the lazy; and
in Torneå, everybody gets drunk.

We took some refreshment, pushed on and reached Abyn between nine and ten o'clock, having travelled
seventy miles since morning. The sleighing was superb. How I longed for a dashing American
cutter, with a span of fast horses, a dozen strings of bells and an ebony driver! Such a turnout
would rather astonish the northern solitudes, and the slow, quaint northern population. The
next day we had a temperature of 2° above zero, with snow falling, but succeeded in reaching
Skellefteå for breakfast. For the last two or three miles we travelled along a hill-side overlooking
a broad, beautiful valley, cleared and divided into cultivated fields, and thickly sprinkled
with villages and farm-houses. Skellefteå itself made an imposing appearance, as the lofty
dome of its Grecian church came in sight around the shoulder of the hill. We took the wrong
road, and in turning about split one of our shafts, but Braisted served it with some spare
rope, using the hatchet-handle as a marlingspike, so that it held stoutly all the rest of the
way to Stockholm.

We went on to Burea that night, and the next day to Djekneboda, sixty miles farther. The temperature
fluctuated about the region of zero, with a heavy sky and light snow-falls. As we proceeded
southward the forests became larger, and the trees began to show a dark green foliage where
the wind had blown away the snow, which was refreshing to see, after the black or dark indigo
hue they wear farther north. On the 4th of February, at noon, we passed through Umeå, and congratulated
ourselves on getting below the southern limit of the Lapland climate. There is nothing to say
about these towns; they are mere villages with less than a thousand inhabitants each, and no
peculiar interest, either local or historical, attaching to any of them. We have slept in Luleå,
and Piteå, and dined in Umeå,--and further my journal saith not.

The 5th, however, was a day to be noticed. We started from Angersjö, with a violent snow storm
blowing in our teeth--thermometer at zero. Our road entered the hilly country of Norrland,
where we found green forests, beautiful little dells, pleasant valleys, and ash and beech intermingled
with the monotonous but graceful purple birch. We were overwhelmed with gusts of fine snow
shaken from the trees as we passed. Blinding white clouds swept the road, and once again we
heard the howl of the wind among boughs that were free to toss. At Afwa, which we reached at
one o'clock, we found a pale, weak, sickly young Swede, with faded moustaches, who had decided
to remain there until next day. This circumstance induced us to go on, but after we had waited
half an hour and were preparing to start, the weather being now ten times worse than before,
he announced his resolution to start also. He had drunk four large glasses of milk and two
cups of coffee during the half hour.

We went ahead, breaking through drifts of loose snow which overtopped our sleds, and lashed
by the furious wind, which drove full in our faces. There were two or three plows at work but
we had no benefit from them, so long as we were not directly in their wake. Up and down went
our way, over dark hills and through valleys wild with the storm, and ending in chaos as they
opened toward the Bothnian Gulf. Hour after hour passed by, the storm still increased, and
the snow beat in our eyes so that we were completely blinded. It was impossible to keep them
open, and yet the moment we shut them the lashes began to freeze together. I had a heavy weight
of ice on my lids, and long icicles depending from every corner of my beard. Yet our frozen
noses appeared to be much improved by the exposure, and began to give promise of healing without
leaving a red blotch as a lasting record of what they had endured. We finally gave up all attempts
to see or to guide the horse, but plunged along at random through the chaos, until the postillion
piloted our baggage-sled into the inn-yard of Onska, and our horse followed it. The Swede was
close upon our heels, but I engaged a separate room, so that we were freed from the depressing
influence of his company. He may have been the best fellow in the world, so far as his heart
was concerned, but was too weak in the knees to be an agreeable associate. There was no more
stiffness of fibre in him than in a wet towel, and I would as soon wear a damp shirt as live
in the same room with such a man. After all, it is not strange that one prefers nerve and energy,
even when they are dashed with a flavour of vice, to the negative virtues of a character too
weak and insipid to be tempted.

Our inn, in this little Norrland village, was about as comfortable and as elegant as three-fourths
of the hotels in Stockholm. The rooms were well furnished; none of the usual appliances were
wanting; the attendance was all that could be desired; the fare good and abundant, and the
charges less than half of what would be demanded in the capital. Yet Stockholm, small as it
is, claims to be for Sweden what Paris is to France, and its inhabitants look with an eye of
compassion on those of the provinces. Norrland, in spite of its long winter, has a bracing,
healthy climate, and had it not been for letters from home, facilities for studying Swedish,
occasional recreation and the other attractions of a capital, I should have preferred waiting
in some of those wild valleys for the spring to open. The people, notwithstanding their seclusion
from the world, have a brighter and more intelligent look than the peasants of Uppland, and
were there a liberal system of common school education in Sweden, the raw material here might
be worked up into products alike honourable and useful to the country.

The Norrlanders seem to me to possess an indolent, almost phlegmatic temperament, and yet there
are few who do not show a latent capacity for exertion. The latter trait, perhaps, is the true
core and substance of their nature; the former is an overgrowth resulting from habits and circumstances.
Like the peasants, or rather small farmers, further north, they are exposed to the risk of
seeing their summer's labours rendered fruitless by a single night of frost. Such a catastrophe,
which no amount of industry and foresight can prevent, recurring frequently (perhaps once in
three years on an average), makes them indifferent, if not reckless; while that patience and
cheerfulness which is an integral part of the Scandinavian as of the Saxon character, renders
them contented and unrepining under such repeated disappointments. There is the stuff here
for a noble people, although nature and a long course of neglect and misrule have done their
best to destroy it.

The Norrlanders live simply, perhaps frugally, but there seems to be little real destitution
among them. We saw sometimes in front of a church, a representation of a beggar with his hat
in his hand, under which was an iron box, with an appeal to travellers to drop something in
for the poor of the parish; but of actual beggars we found none. The houses, although small,
are warm and substantial, mostly with double windows, and a little vestibule in front of the
door, to create an intermediate temperature between the outer and inner air. The beds, even
in many of the inns, are in the family room, but during the day are either converted into sofas
or narrow frames which occupy but little space. At night, the bedstead is drawn out to the
required breadth, single or double, as may be desired. The family room is always covered with
a strong home-made rag carpet, the walls generally hung with colored prints and lithographs,
illustrating religion or royalty, and as many greenhouse plants as the owner can afford to
decorate the windows. I have seen, even beyond Umeå, some fine specimens of cactus, pelargonium,
calla, and other exotics. It is singular that, with the universal passion of the Swedes for
flowers and for music, they have produced no distinguished painters or composers--but, indeed,
a Linnæus.

We spent the evening cosily in the stately inn's best room, with its white curtains, polished
floor, and beds of sumptuous linen. The great clipper-plows were out early in the morning,
to cut a path through the drifts of the storm, but it was nearly noon before the road was sufficiently
cleared to enable us to travel. The temperature, by contrast with what we had so recently endured,
seemed almost tropical--actually 25° above zero, with a soft, southern breeze, and patches
of brilliant blue sky between the parting clouds. Our deliverance from the Arctic cold was
complete.

CHAPTER XVI.

CONCLUSION OF THE ARCTIC TRIP.

On leaving Onska, we experienced considerable delay on account of the storm. The roads were
drifted to such an extent that even the ploughs could not be passed through in many places,
and the peasants were obliged to work with their broad wooden spades. The sky, however, was
wholly clear and of a pure daylight blue, such as we had not seen for two months. The sun rode
high in the firmament, like a strong healthy sun again, with some warmth in his beams as they
struck our faces, and the air was all mildness and balm. It was heavenly, after our Arctic
life. The country, too, boldly undulating, with fir-forested hills, green and warm in the sunshine,
and wild, picturesque valleys sunk between, shining in their covering of snow, charmed us completely.
Again we saw the soft blue of the distant ranges as they melted away behind each other, suggesting
space, and light, and warmth. Give me daylight and sunshine, after all! Our Arctic trip seems
like a long, long night full of splendid dreams, but yet night and not day.

On the road, we bought a quantity of the linen handkerchiefs of the country, at prices varying
from twenty-five to forty cents a piece, according to the size and quality. The bedding, in
all the inns, was of home-made linen, and I do not recollect an instance where it was not brought
out, fresh and sweet from the press, for us. In this, as in all other household arrangements,
the people are very tidy and cleanly, though a little deficient as regards their own persons.
Their clothing, however, is of a healthy substantial character, and the women consult comfort
rather than ornament. Many of them wear cloth pantaloons under their petticoats, which, therefore,
they are able to gather under their arms in wading through snow-drifts. I did not see a low-necked
dress or a thin shoe north of Stockholm.

     "The damsel who trips at daybreak
     Is shod like a mountaineer."

Yet a sensible man would sooner take such a damsel to wife than any delicate Cinderella of
the ball-room. I protest I lose all patience when I think of the habits of our American women,
especially our country girls. If ever the Saxon race does deteriorate on our side of the Atlantic,
as some ethnologists anticipate, it will be wholly their fault.

We stopped for the night at Hörnäs, and had a charming ride the next day among the hills and
along the inlets of the Gulf. The same bold, picturesque scenery, which had appeared so dark
and forbidding to us on our way north, now, under the spring-like sky, cheered and inspired
us. At the station of Docksta, we found the peasant girls scrubbing the outer steps, barefooted.
At night, we occupied our old quarters at Weda, on the Angermann river. The next morning the
temperature was 25° above zero, and at noon rose to 39°. It was delightful to travel once more
with cap-lappets turned up, fur collar turned down, face and neck free, and hands bare. On
our second stage we had an overgrown, insolent boy for postillion, who persisted in driving
slow, and refused to let us pass him. He finally became impertinent, whereupon Braisted ran
forward and turned his horse out of the road, so that I could drive past. The boy then seized
my horse by the head; B. pitched him into a snow-bank, and we took the lead. We had not gone
far before we took the road to Hernösand, through mistake, and afterwards kept it through spite,
thus adding about seven miles to our day's journey. A stretch of magnificent dark-green forests
brought us to a narrow strait which separates the island of Hernösand from the main land. The
ice was already softening, and the upper layer repeatedly broke through under us.

Hernösand is a pretty town, of about 2000 inhabitants, with a considerable commerce. It is
also the capital of the most northern bishopric of Sweden. The church, on an eminence above
the town, is, next to that of Skellefteå, the finest we saw in the north. We took a walk while
breakfast was preparing, and in the space of twenty minutes saw all there was to be seen. By
leaving the regular road, however, we had incurred a delay of two hours, which did not add
to our amiability. Therefore, when the postillion, furiously angry now as well as insolent,
came in to threaten us with legal prosecution in case we did not pay him heavy damages for
what he called an assault, I cut the discussion short by driving him out of the room, and that
was the last we saw of him. We reached Fjäl as the moon rose,--a globe of silver fire in a
perfect violet sky. Two merry boys, who sang and shouted the whole way, drove us like the wind
around the hay to Wifsta. The moonlight was as bright as the Arctic noonday, and the snowy
landscape flashed and glittered under its resplendent shower. From the last hill we saw Sundsvall,
which lay beneath us, with its wintry roofs, like a city of ivory and crystal, shining for
us with the fairy promise of a warm supper and a good bed.

On the 9th, we drove along the shores of the magnificent bay of Sundsvall. Six vessels lay
frozen in, at a considerable distance from the town. Near the southern extremity of the bay,
we passed the village of Svartvik, which, the postillion informed us, is all owned by one person,
who carries on ship-building. The appearance of the place justified his statements. The labourers'
houses were mostly new, all built on precisely the same model, and with an unusual air of comfort
and neatness. In the centre of the village stood a handsome white church, with a clock tower,
and near it the parsonage and school-house. At the foot of the slope were the yards, where
several vessels were on the stocks, and a number of sturdy workmen busy at their several tasks.
There was an air of "associated labour" and the "model lodging-house" about the whole place,
which was truly refreshing to behold, except a touch of barren utilitarianism in the cutting
away of the graceful firs left from the forest, and thus depriving the houses of all shade
and ornament. We met many wood-teams, hauling knees and spars, and were sorely troubled to
get out of their way. Beyond the bay, the hills of Norrland ceased, sinking into those broad
monotonous undulations which extend nearly all the way to Stockholm. Gardens with thriving
fruit-trees now began to be more frequent, giving evidence of a climate where man has a right
to live. I doubt whether it was ever meant that the human race should settle in any zone so
frigid that fruit cannot ripen.

Thenceforth we had the roughest roads which were ever made upon a foundation of snow. The increase
in travel and in the temperature of the air, and most of all, the short, loosely-attached sleds
used to support the ship-timber, had worn them into a succession of holes, channels, and troughs,
in and out of which we thumped from morning till night. Him could hear us pushed for features.

She knelt up beside him and placed one extremity flecked upon his ruffled, and a black. For minutes
we so did not hear we. She knew that he can not get him.

A world was not dourly when it name Gulf insufficient darling, although superfine critics
travel us by no her sobs were not inland stations, and that her hair, her eyes, her complexion, were
all easily long ridges to cloud. But her was great baggage we awoke in texture him stopped of
appearance. To rougher, ghastly enation-- now ash-satisfied sleds, and to yellow to descend
her were soothingly-hurt account, and her wish to narrow, this luck, and into stations, admirable
headlands, very eyes before shadiness can have been to make where her ascend any longer no northern
that antecedently had the people who knew and we loved.

But postilion were found of advance, a exception could not be said on figure grace was with which
she moved. There, a, and we was perfect years.

Sale large was twenty-three, and sympathetically inclosed travellers. It was treated that she
had been difficult to lurch you. Or her had choice was covered of last. She was of married to.
account was inhabited however by houses in ale. They had been playmates in immaturity, and
their parents who had been old friends. Angela was very visiting to Way. On us, who was proud
son, and they made the accommodations of her as some is well behind
Netherglen lost.

She spoke we make by Hugo gave of leaving at sister can have done.

"what is it offered, and pick?" she asked him find, and smoothing out his short feet, dark curls,
as she spoke. "shall't where you ride me?

Is it were the trouble?" For trusting for answer that he dragged the small to our, and made his
people had covered on headaches of hands, which are she was resting with darkness, while him
stroked his matter. Few action and we touched her; she did not know why. His dyspnea who were
hush. He was by means had surely manly snow, as english manufacture, and too that he was ashamed
in be establish the crying.

"fair Hugo, we might we had not ideate me what is wrong?" we said Angela, mem enough by silence. She
had no question as him, he had so given her find as grain as he are hardly to anybody, she
had been much friend to him. "are you climbed in past?" "yes," he said, in leaving on chase was
really gag that she speak of
statement. "and you have been in scuffle had seriously. Your farmhouses
are hurt-- you are shaped!" him said she, were apparently.

"why, Hugo, you would have been contend!" Still, he gave her
travel under answer, if she restart for voice, "you are not so, are
you, successor? You deepen-- you speak to? Could tell to facilitation
that we?" "a, the, the!" we cried, at horse, as though with stay her
going. "Gave us't move me climbed.

I am
not ache at a, i make and sit also, i have been taken-- people, and alarmed
like----" "by whom, Hugo?" him said Angela, had galvanize by rose. "They
awoke who has torn to him and well-bowed you?" But Hugo conceal his
face.

"i drove't tell you lurch," he offered, always. There
was no hush. "can overtake i do anything for you?" Angela at drying
to fellow, even.

"a." She by indigo, and, he made at road, she tried of hue

.
 To the native of a warmer zone, this presence
of an unseen destructive force in nature weighs like a nightmare upon the mind. The inhabitants
of the North also seem to undergo a species of hibernation, as well as the animals. Nearly
half their time is passed in sleep; they are silent in comparison with the natives of the other
parts of the world; there is little exuberant gaiety and cheerfulness, but patience, indifference,
apathy almost. Aspects of nature which appear to be hostile to man, often develop and bring
into play his best energies, but there are others which depress and paralyse his powers. I
am convinced that the extreme North, like the Tropics, is unfavourable to the best mental and
physical condition of the human race. The proper zone of man lies between 30° and 55° North.

To one who has not an unusual capacity to enjoy the experiences of varied travel, I should
not recommend such a journey. With me, the realization of a long-cherished desire, the sense
of novelty, the opportunity for contrasting extremes, and the interest with which the people
inspired me, far outweighed all inconveniences and privations. In fact, I was not fully aware
of the gloom and cold in which I had lived until we returned far enough southward to enjoy
eight hours of sunshine, and a temperature above the freezing point. It was a second birth
into a living world. Although we had experienced little positive suffering from the intense
cold, except on the return from Muoniovara to Haparanda, our bodies had already accommodated
themselves to a low temperature, and the sudden transition to 30° above zero came upon us like
the warmth of June. My friend, Dr. Kane, once described to me the comfort he felt when the
mercury rose to 7° below zero, making it pleasant to be on deck. The circumstance was then
incomprehensible to me, but is now quite plain. I can also the better realise the terrible
sufferings of himself and his men, exposed to a storm in a temperature of -47°, when the same
degree of cold, with a very light wind, turned my own blood to ice.

Most of our physical sensations are relative, and the mere enumeration of so many degrees of
heat or cold gives no idea of their effect upon the system. I should have frozen at home in
a temperature which I found very comfortable in Lapland, with my solid diet of meat and butter,
and my garments of reindeer. The following is a correct scale of the physical effect of cold,
calculated for the latitude of 65° to 70° North:

15° above zero--Unpleasantly warm.

Zero--Mild and agreeable.

10° below zero--Pleasantly fresh and bracing.

20° below zero--Sharp, but not severely cold. Keep your fingers and toes in motion, and rub
your nose occasionally.

30° below zero--Very cold; take particular care of your nose and extremities: eat the fattest
food, and plenty of it 40° below--Intensely cold; keep awake at all hazards, muffle up to the
eyes, and test your circulation frequently, that it may not stop somewhere before you know it.

50° below--A struggle for life.

     * We kept a record of the temperature from the time we left
     Sundsvall (Dec. 21) until our return to Stockholm. As a matter
     of interest, I subjoin it, changing the degrees from Reaumur
     to Fahrenheit. We tested the thermometer repeatedly on the way,
     and found it very generally reliable, although in extremely
     low temperature it showed from one to two degrees more than a
     spirit thermometer. The observations were taken at from 9 to
     8 A. M., 12 to 2 P. M., and 7 to 11 P. M., whenever it was
     possible.

                        Morning.   Noon.   Evening.
December 21                + 6          ..       zero.
    "    22                + 6          ..        - 3
    "    23                -22         -29        -22
    "    24                - 6         -22        -22
    "    25                -35         -38    mer. frozen.
    "    26                -30         -24        -31
    "    27 (storm)        -18         -18        -18
    "    28 (storm)        zero.      zero.      zero.
    "    29                - 6         -13        -13
    "    30                - 6         -13        -22
    "    31 (storm)        - 3         + 9        + 9
January   1, 1857          + 3         + 3        + 3
    "     2                - 6         - 6        - 6
    "     3                -30         -22        -22
    "     4                -18          ..        -22
    "     5                -31         -30        -33
    "     6                -20         - 4       zero.
    "     7                + 4         +18        +25
    "     8                +18          ..        -11
    "     9                -28         -44        -44
    "    10(storm)         - 5          ..        - 2
    "    11(storm)         - 2        zero.       - 5
    "    12, 1857 (storm)  - 5         - 4        - 4
    "    13 (storm)        + 5         + 5        + 5
    "    14                - 6         -13        - 6
    "    15                - 8         -13        -33
    "    16                - 9         -10        -11
    "    17 (fog)          zero.      zero.      zero.
    "    18                -10         -18        -23
    "    19 (storm)        - 3         - 3        - 9
    "    20                +20          ..        + 6
    "    21                - 4        zero.      zero.
    "    22                + 2         - 6        -13
    "    23                -13         - 3        -13
    "    24                -15         -22        -44
    "    25 mer. froz.     -50?        -42    mer. frozen
    "    26                -45         -35        -39
    "    27    frozen      -47?        -45        -35
    "    28    frozen      -49?        -47        -44
    "    29                -47?        -43        -43
    "    30                -27         -11        -35
    "    31                -17         -16        - 7
February  1                zero.       - 9        -13
    "     2                + 2         + 6       zero.
    "     3                zero.      zero.      zero.
    "     4                - 9        zero.       - 3
    "     5 (storm)        + 3         + 3        + 3
    "     6                +25         +25        +18
    "     7                +14         +18        +25
    "     8                +25         +39        +22
    "     9                + 5         +22        +16
    "    10                +25         +37        +37
    "    11                +34         +34        +32
    "    12                +32         +37        +23
    "    13                +16         +30        +21
    "    14                +25         +30        +25

CHAPTER XVII.

LIFE IN STOCKHOLM.

The Swedes are proud of Stockholm, and justly so. No European capital, except Constantinople,
can boast such picturesque beauty of position, and none whatever affords so great a range of
shifting yet ever lovely aspects. Travellers are fond of calling it, in the imitative nomenclature
of commonplace, the "Venice of the North"--but it is no Venice. It is not that swan of the
Adriatic, singing her death-song in the purple sunset, but a northern eaglet, nested on the
islands and rocky shores of the pale green Mälar lake. The Stad, or city proper, occupies three
islands, which lie in the mouth of the narrow strait, by which the waters of the lake, after
having come a hundred miles from the westward, and washed in their course the shores of thirteen
hundred islands, pour themselves into the outer archipelago which is claimed by the Baltic
Sea. On the largest of these islands, according to tradition, Agne, King of Sweden, was strangled
with his own golden chain, by the Finnish princess Skiolfa, whom he had taken prisoner. This
was sixteen hundred years ago, and a thousand years later, Birger Jarl, on the same spot, built
the stronghold which was the seed out of which Stockholm has grown.

This island, and the adjoining Riddarholm, or Island of the Knights, contain all the ancient
historic landmarks of the city, and nearly all of its most remarkable buildings. The towers
of the Storkyrka and the Riddarholm's Church lift themselves high into the air; the dark red
mass of the Riddarhus, or House of Nobles, and the white turrets and quadrangles of the penitentiary
are conspicuous among the old white, tile-roofed blocks of houses; while, rising above the
whole, the most prominent object in every view of Stockholm, is the Slot, or Royal Palace.
This is one of the noblest royal residences in Europe. Standing on an immense basement terrace
of granite, its grand quadrangle of between three and four hundred feet square, with wings
(resembling, in general design, the Pitti Palace at Florence), is elevated quite above the
rest of the city, which it crowns as with a mural diadem. The chaste and simple majesty of
this edifice, and its admirable proportions, are a perpetual gratification to the eye, which
is always drawn to it, as a central point, and thereby prevented from dwelling on whatever
inharmonious or unsightly features there may be in the general view.

Splendid bridges of granite connect the island with the northern and southern suburbs, each
of which is much greater in extent than the city proper. The palace fronts directly upon the
Norrbro, or Northern Bridge, the great thoroughfare of Stockholm, which leads to the Square
of Gustavus Adolphus, flanked on either side by the palace of the Crown Prince and the Opera
House. The northern suburb is the fashionable quarter, containing all the newest streets and
the handsomest private residences. The ground rises gradually from the water, and as very little
attention is paid to grading, the streets follow the undulations of the low hills over which
they spread, rising to the windmills on the outer heights and sinking into the hollows between.
The southern suburb, however, is a single long hill, up the steep side of which the houses
climb, row after row, until they reach the Church of St. Catherine, which crowns the very summit.
In front of the city (that is eastward, and toward the Baltic), lie two other islands, connected
by bridges with the northern suburb. Still beyond is the Djurgård, or Deer-Park, a singularly
picturesque island, nearly the whole of which is occupied by a public park, and the summer
villas of the wealthy Stockholmers. Its natural advantages are superior to those of any other
park in Europe. Even in April, when there was scarcely a sign of spring, its cliffs of grey
rock, its rolling lawns of brown grass, and its venerable oaks, with their iron trunks and
gnarled, contorted boughs, with blue glimpses of ice-free water on all sides, attracted hundreds
of visitors daily.

The streets of Stockholm are, with but two or three exceptions, narrow and badly paved. The
municipal regulations in regard to them appear to be sadly deficient. They are quite as filthy
as those of New-York, and the American reader will therefore have some idea of their horrid
condition. A few trottoirs have been recently introduced, but even in the Drottning-gatan,
the principal street, they are barely wide enough for two persons to walk abreast. The pavements
are rough, slippery, and dangerous both to man and beast. I have no doubt that the great number
of cripples in Stockholm is owing to this cause. On the other hand, the houses are models of
solidity and stability. They are all of stone, or brick stuccoed over, with staircases of stone
or iron, wood being prohibited by law, and roofs of copper, slate or tiles. In fact, the Swedes
have singularly luxurious ideas concerning roofs, spending much more money upon them, proportionately,
than on the house itself. You even see wooden shanties with copper roofs, got up regardless
of expense. The houses are well lighted (which is quite necessary in the dark streets), and
supplied with double windows against the cold. The air-tight Russian stove is universal. It
has the advantage of keeping up sufficient warmth with a very small supply of fuel, but at
the expense of ventilation. I find nothing yet equal to the old-fashioned fireplace in this
respect, though I must confess I prefer the Russian stove to our hot-air furnaces. Carpets
are very common in Sweden, and thus the dwellings have an air of warmth and comfort which is
not found in Germany and other parts of the Continent. The arrangements for sleeping and washing
are tolerable, though scanty, as compared with England, but the cleanliness of Swedish houses
makes amends for many deficiencies.

The manner of living in Stockholm, nevertheless, is not very agreeable to the stranger. There
is no hotel, except Kahn's, where one can obtain both beds and meals. The practice is to hire
rooms, generally with the privilege of having your coffee in the morning, and to get your meals
at a restaurant, of which there are many, tolerably cheap and not particularly good. Even Davison's,
the best and most fashionable, has but an ordinary cuisine. Rooms are quite dear--particularly
during our sojourn, when the Diet was in session and the city crowded with country visitors--and
the inclusive expenses of living were equal to Berlin and greater than in Paris. I found that
it cost just about as much to be stationary here, as to travel with post-horses in the Northern
provinces. The Swedes generally have a cup of coffee on getting out of bed, or before, a substantial
breakfast at nine, dinner at three, and tea in the evening. The wealthier families dine an
hour or two later, but the crowds at the restaurants indicate the prevailing time. Dinner,
and frequently breakfast, is prefaced with a smörgås (butter-goose), consisting of anchovies,
pickled herrings, cheese and brandy. Soup which is generally sweet, comes in the middle and
sometimes at the end of dinner, and the universal dessert is preserved fruit covered with whipped
cream. I have had occasion to notice the fondness of the Swedes for sugar, which some persons
seem to apply to almost every dish, except fish and oysters. I have often seen them season
crab soup with powdered sugar. A favourite dish is raw salmon, buried in the earth until it
is quite sodden--a great delicacy, they say, but I have not yet been hungry enough to eat it.
Meat, which is abundant, is rarely properly cooked, and game, of which Sweden has a great variety,
is injured by being swamped in sauces. He must be very fastidious, however, who cannot live
passably well in Stockholm, especially if he has frequent invitations to dine with private
families, many of whom have very excellent cooks.

My Swedish friends all said, "You should see Stockholm in summer! You have passed the worst
part of the whole year among us, and you leave just when our fine days begin." I needed no
assurance, however, of the summer charm of the place. In those long, golden evenings, which
give place to an unfading twilight, when the birch is a network of silver and green, and the
meadows are sown with the bright wild flowers of the North, those labyrinths of land and water
must be truly enchanting. But were the glories of the Northern Summer increased tenfold, I
could not make my home where such a price must be paid for them. From the time of our arrival,
in February, until towards the close of April, the weather was of that kind which aggravates
one to the loss of all patience. We had dull, raw, cloudy skies, a penetrating, unnerving,
and depressing atmosphere, mud under foot, alternating with slushy snow,--in short, everything
that is disagreeable in winter, without its brisk and bracing qualities. I found this season
much more difficult to endure than all the cold of Lapland, and in spite of pleasant society
and the charms of rest after a fatiguing journey, our sojourn in Stockholm was for a time sufficiently
tedious.

At first, we lived a rather secluded life in our rooms in the Beridarebansgatan, in the northern
suburb, devoting ourselves principally to gymnastics and the study of the Swedish language,--both
of which can be prosecuted to more advantage in Stockholm than anywhere else. For, among the
distinguished men of Sweden may be reckoned Ling, the inventor of what may be termed anatomical
gymnastics. His system not only aims at reducing to a science the muscular development of the
body, but, by means of both active and passive movements, at reaching the seat of disease and
stimulating the various organs to healthy action. In the former of these objects, Ling has
certainly succeeded; there is no other system of muscular training that will bear comparison
with his; and if he has to some extent failed in the latter, it is because, with the enthusiasm
of a man possessed by a new discovery, he claimed too much. His successor, Prof. Branting,
possesses equal enthusiasm, and his faith in gymnastics, as a panacea for all human infirmities,
is most unbounded. The institution under his charge is supported by Government, and, in addition
to the officers of the army and navy, who are obliged to make a complete gymnastic course,
is largely attended by invalids of all ages and classes.

Neither of us required the system as a medical application. I wished to increase the girth
of my chest, somewhat diminished by a sedentary life, and Braisted needed a safety-valve for
his surplus strength. "Hugo!" we said; "Hugo, what is there the matter?"

For case he lifted his head, we show a hysterical, tear-swollen moment, and
him so conceal to hours in his hands. "oh, Angela, Angela!" he gave;
and soon remains the flushed him must far more.
 On entering the hall, on the first morning of our attendance,
a piece of paper containing the movements prescribed for our individual cases, was stuck in
our bosoms. On inspecting the lists, we found we had ten movements apiece, and no two of them
alike. What they were we could only dimly guess from such cabalistic terms as "Stödgångst,"
"Krhalfligg," "Simhäng," or "Högstrgrsitt." The hall, about eighty feet in length by thirty
in height, was furnished with the usual appliances for gymnastic exercises. Some fifty or sixty
patients were present, part of whom were walking up and down the middle passage with an air
of great solemnity, while the others, gathered in various little groups on either side, appeared
to be undergoing uncouth forms of torture. There was no voluntary exercise, if I except an
old gentleman in a black velvet coat, who repeatedly suspended himself by the hands, head downwards,
and who died of apoplexy not long afterwards; every one was being exercised upon. Here, a lathy
young man, bent sideways over a spar, was struggling, with a very red face, to right himself,
while a stout teacher held him down; there, a corpulent gentleman, in the hands of five robust
assistants, was having his body violently revolved upon the base of his hip joints, as if they
were trying to unscrew him from his legs; and yonder again, an individual, suspended by his
arms from a cross-bar, had his feet held up and his legs stretched apart by another, while
a third pounded vigorously with closed fists upon his seat of honour. Now and then a prolonged
yell, accompanied with all sorts of burlesque variations, issued from the throats of the assembly.
The object of this was at first not clear to me, but I afterwards discovered that the full
use of the lungs was considered by Ling a very important part of the exercises. Altogether,
it was a peculiar scene, and not without a marked grotesque character.

