It is innocent for boys to play marbles, but sinful to play dominoes. Wherein, pray? They can
learn to gamble with one as well as with the other. It is sinful to play billiards, but highly
graceful and innocent to play croquet. But why? Really, when it comes to a comparison, the
first is infinitely the more beautiful and intellectual game. The ethical distinctions are
positively bewildering between balls of ivory and balls of wood; between mallets and cues;
between green baize and green grass. A Christian household must not sit down and play at whist,
but they are engaged in a Christian and laudable manner if they spend an evening over Dr. Busby,
or Master Rodbury cards. Really, it is hard to draw the moral line between cards bearing aces
and spades, and cards with the likenesses of Dr. Busby’s son and servant, Doll the dairymaid,
and the like. When it comes to a question of profit, one is an amusement involving a good deal
of healthy, mental exertion, while the other is about as silly and profitless a way of spending
an evening as can well be imagined. Youth must not dance, but they may march to music in company,
and go through calisthenic exercises, involving a good deal more motion than dancing. But if
people may march to music and be guiltless, it is very hard to see how skipping to music converts
the exercise into sin. It is said that the associations make the difference; but the advocate
of this theory is shut up to proving that the associations are inseparable from the amusements.
And here is the place to remark that the best amusements are the ones most likely to be abused—the
ones which experience shows are most abused, and about which cluster the most evil associations.
The children of this world are wiser in their generation than the children of light. Men do
not care to counterfeit a coin of inferior value; and the world is very clear-sighted to discern
the best and richest sources of worldly pleasure, and utterly unscrupulous in appropriating
them entirely to itself. The amusements which are most abused, are commonly those which, from
their intrinsic value, call most loudly upon virtue to rescue them from their abuses.

The above method of reasoning, in short, will not stand the test of plain common sense. It
is trifling, ignoring all distinctions which rest on principles, and substituting factitious
ones; and Christians who assume this ground, lay themselves open without defense to the logic
and ridicule of any intelligent man of the world who may be disposed to test the reasons for
their scrupulousness. They condemn themselves in those things which they allow. The amusements
they approve cannot, in many cases, be compared with those which they deprecate, either in
elegance, profit, or the amount of intelligence they require.

What point then shall we take for the consideration of this subject? We are confined to one—the
stand-point of the Bible. As Christian associations we have but one question to ask: “What
saith the Word.”

In the New Testament we find little said about the degrees of sin. The thought which it throughout
tries to impress is, that sin is everywhere; and under any form, or in any degree, is a horrible
and fatal thing. The tares are gathered in bundles and burned; no matter if one grows a little
shorter, and another a little longer. The lustful glance is placed in the same category with
the licentious act. The angry thought is of the same piece with the act of murder. The gospel
contemplates the sins of the race very much as a man looks at an orange: the rind is full of
little protuberances, and a close scrutiny will show that some of these rise higher than others.
But nobody pretends to notice these variations; they all spring from one spherical surface,
and their variation is not such as to destroy the general effect of roundness. So all these
fearful developments of sin spring from one plane, and God hath concluded the whole sinful
world in unbelief.

The gospel, therefore, wastes no time in making distinctions between sins, but aims straight
at remedying the great fact of sin as it exists everywhere. Nor does it leave us in doubt as
to its method. It assumes its own power to purify anything, and therefore lays down as its
great law of operation, the law of contact. The great truth here illustrated, is the innate
power of the gospel to pervade and assimilate to its own nature the whole worldly order of
things, just as leaven thus pervades and assimilates the lifeless lumps of dough. This then,
is its simple lesson: Put the gospel into contact with everything sinful—the heart of man,
the life of man, the employments of man, the amusements of man—into society, its customs, laws,
institutions, and it will purge them of evil, and bring them into harmony with the Divine order.

But be sure and note, that the entire success of this action depends upon the contact—upon
the putting the leaven into the lump. Fail in this, and the lump remains heavy. It matters
very little whether the salt have lost his savor or not, if the meat remain in one dish and
the salt in the other.

How thoroughly and beautifully this truth was carried out in the life and teachings of Christ,
will appear to us more clearly, if we shall recognize the uniform policy of the gospel to work
for the destruction of evil, chiefly through the lodgment and development of good. Both Christ
and his apostles are exhibited in the gospel story as engaged chiefly in asserting and illustrating
the truth, and not in combating error. Christ comes into a world lying in wickedness—besotted
by it, plagued and tormented by it; full of abominations starting boldly out without pretense
of concealment, from every phase of private, social and civil life. But he does not approach
these as a mechanic would an old building, saying, “this beam is rotten and must come down;
this roof is decayed and must be stripped off; this floor is unsafe and must be pulled up.”
He does not propose to his disciples to enter upon a wholesale denunciation of profanity and
licentiousness. He points out and condemns many of these things it is true; but the main lever
of his teaching is the assertion of the great gospel principles. For these he seeks a place
of lodgment everywhere. The old tables of the law contained but one commandment that was not
prohibitory. So, I repeat, Christ’s work is less a crusade against evil, than an assertion
of good by precept and example as the surest means in the end of removing evil. Look, too,
at Paul at Athens, surrounded by heathen temples, statues and altars. He does not proceed to
demonstrate to the curious multitude that the philosophies of Zeno or Epicurus are wrong; or
that the worship of Hermes or Athene is absurd. He throws out at once, bold and stern as a
mountain headland, the assertion of the Divine unity, and follows it up with the doctrines
of salvation through Christ, the resurrection, and the final judgment. In a few bold strokes
he delineates to the astonished skeptics some salient points of natural and revealed religion,
and then leaves the truth to germinate and crowd out the evil in its own way and time.

There is indeed a sublimity in this invincible faith in the power of truth exhibited by the
Son of Man. In the calmness with which he moves amid the moral ruin that encompasses him, without
that anxious haste, and longing for immediate results, which characterize so many modern reformers.
The world would have expected a direct and tremendous onslaught upon evil. It would have said
that the dropping of a seed of positive truth here and there, would never result in anything.
Christ knew better. He knew the latent power of truth; its inherent capability of growth; and
he knew that wherever it should find a lodgment, it would grow; and wherever it should grow,
it would shake down from its branches, like the mighty tree of the tropics, the germs of a
thousand growths like itself. Now it is this very faith in the power of gospel truth, as the
most effective destroyer of evil, prompting to put the good boldly into the evil to leaven
it, which is sorely needed in the moral movements of the age. Bring the subject of amusements
to this test. Compare the action of the church upon it, with the principles so evidently regulating
Christ’s dealing with evil, and see whether it gains by the comparison. Is it not true, rather,
that the Christian world has, to a very large extent, acted upon an entirely opposite principle?
It has spent much time in peering into amusements to see what evil they contained, and has
kept digging away at this, instead of putting Divine grace into them, in simple faith in God,
and letting that at once purge and regulate them. It has been so absorbed in ferreting out
and declaiming against the evil, as to have forgotten measurably that a corresponding duty
lay upon it to develop the good. Overlooking, or at least slighting the great philosophical
truth, that amusement is as necessary to man as bread, and fixing its gaze upon the fact that
it is capable of perversion, it has most signally failed in the regulation of popular amusements,
and in teaching how to use, without abusing them. It has withdrawn utterly from many most innocent
sources of pleasure; crying, “come out from among them;” they are not safe; Christians must
have nothing to do with them. And with its withdrawal, the Devil has come in and taken full
possession, and their last state is worse than the first. When the church has touched the subject
of amusements, it has generally done so, I think, in a censorious spirit. It has selected certain
amusements as sinful, and issued decretals and resolutions against them; it has prescribed
penalties against church members who should engage in them; leaving the question in its broader
relations untouched. It has fenced off this and that corner of the field of recreation, and
put up signs: “all church members are warned against trespassing on these grounds, under penalty
of the law,” instead of trying to teach Christians how to avail themselves, with profit and
safety, of any part of the field. We are cut off from Hamlet, and Lear, and Othello and Macbeth.
We cannot avail ourselves of the interpretation of these by the best histrionic talent, because
the theater has been suffered to fall so completely into the Devil’s hands, that a Christian
cannot countenance what is good in it, without at the same time countenancing much that is
profane, licentious and indecent. But if the intelligence and culture of a community endeavor
to apply the principle I have been advocating, and, in the shape of private theatricals, to
furnish a refined, beautiful, and instructive dramatic exhibition, the outcry is little less
than if they had leased Wallack’s or Niblo’s, with a first class troupe; and those Christians
who witness it, are condemned as inconsistent and backsliders. Just so with dancing. The idea
of Christianity having the remotest connection with this amusement has been scouted as absurd.
A procrustean law has been enacted—“Thou shalt not dance.” And surely, one would think from
some exhibitions of this amusement, that Christian leaven had been pretty thoroughly withdrawn
from it. One cannot much wonder at the disgust excited by those importations from Paris brothels,
the round dances, which, with the present style of female attire, really leave modest men at
some loss what to do with their eyes. Let us have as much thundering at these as you will.
Let us not mince words. Let ridicule, and sarcasm, and denunciation exhaust their armories,
for these are abuses; positive evils. But these abuses are not inseparable from the amusement,
which, in proper forms, is healthy, graceful, innocent, and highly commendable. Just here an
incident occurs to me which so forcibly illustrates this last remark that I must relate it
as the involuntary testimony of an enemy. An amiable and most excellent clergyman of this state,
happened to be present one evening when some young ladies went through a quadrille. He looked
on with great apparent pleasure. The next morning he was rallied by some of his townsmen on
having countenanced dancing by his presence; when he roundly denied the charge, and asserted
that no dancing had taken place, but only, as he expressed it, “a most beautiful exercise.”
Now, I ask, in the name of common sense, why not devote a little Christian care to separating
from its abuses, and regulating in its conduct an exercise which improves the bearing of our
youth, tends to relieve their natural awkwardness in society, and gives them innocent exhilaration?
But no! Thou shalt not dance. That is Alpha and Omega. Dancing is liable to abuse, and therefore,
O most astoundingly consistent logic, leave it to become a prey to all manner of abuses and
abominations. So, if a Christian household makes the attempt to leaven this unfortunate lump,
and claims that it can, and does introduce graceful and modest dancing into its family gatherings
and social reunions, it is too often denounced as an enemy of Christ and a corrupter of the
young. For one I am glad that certain Christian families of high standing in the church of
all denominations, have at last asserted their right to act out their own convictions in this
matter, and have demonstrated that even this much berated amusement may be elevated, refined,
and made a source of social pleasure and profit by the infusion of Christian principle.

One more case in point. When our Young Men’s Christian Association of Troy furnished their
new rooms, they did so on the principle that prayer meetings and religious periodicals, though
important in their place, would not, of themselves, suffice to attract young men from without.
They had tried the experiment in their forlorn rooms under a machine shop, in an out-of-the-way
place, furnished as a miniature chapel, and a very seedy one at that, and the result was that
about six months ago the Association was in a fair way to die, and make no sign. Young men
would not go to that dismal hole to spend an evening when more attractive places abounded in
the city; and I would not if I had been in their place. But the Association got a new lease
of life. It engaged large, airy, pleasant rooms, in a central position. It kept its prayer
meeting room neatly and appropriately furnished, but it added a large social parlor, its walls
adorned with pictures, a fine piano invitingly open, the best current periodicals, secular
and religious, upon the tables, and games of checkers, chess, and dominoes distributed about
the room. The young men came in crowds. They were thrown at once into contact with the Christian
youth of every church in the city; with the city pastors; with committees, specially appointed
by the churches to take strangers in charge, with good music, religious literature, and innocent
amusement. For one I thanked God with all my heart. I thought the Association had done a great
Christian deed. I hailed it as a happy omen that the Christianity of our city was beginning
to see that the Devil had tools which it might use to advantage, and was going to take them
away from him. But so did not think others who turned their backs on the Association, and denounced
it as encouraging gambling.

This, in short, is the course pursued to a very great extent with this whole subject of amusements:
assuming that the gospel has no business with it except to denounce and warn; taking the leaven
away from the lump, instead of putting it in. Creating a wide separation between two things,
which, of all others in the world need to be brought into contact—religion and pleasure.

And the practical results of this policy are before us. It may be said that the tendency now
is altogether in the direction of excess; that some Christians are becoming much too liberal,
and are fast obliterating all old landmarks. All I have to say to this is, that the more true
it is, the better for my position. For, granting, for argument’s sake, all that is asserted,
this fact shows that there is a reaction from an old and false sentiment, which even if excessive,
is a healthy indication. And the one error goes to prove the other; for excessive reactions
are pretty sure to grow out of excessive stringency in another direction. At any rate, the
great error of the church on this subject is clearly exposed, namely: her failure to regulate
amusements. She ought to have been the gospel’s instrument in purifying them from abuse; but
she has not been. She has been afraid of them; has stood aloof from them; has been almost totally
absorbed in detecting their evil tendencies; and, on account of these, forbidding Christians
all contact with them. And to-day she stands comparatively powerless in this matter. Church
assemblies meet and pass strong and elaborate resolutions on this or that amusement, condemning
it, and those who engage in it; and a few persons are deterred by these. But every year the
class is increasing that utterly disregards these mandates. It has been said, I know, that
in proportion as the church or individuals are engaged in religious efforts, the desire for
amusement declines, the implication being that a desire for amusement characterizes only a
low state of religion. This deduction is entirely unwarranted, and the process by which it
is reached is fallacious.

It is true that in a season of deep religious interest in a church, there will be less disposition
to amusements. But the same is true of other than religious interests. Under any absorbing,
popular excitement, men do not turn to amusement. A special religious interest will draw men’s
minds from business as well as from pleasure; and the inference to the condemnation of business
is just as legitimate as to that of amusement.

Again, the statement is not borne out in the ordinary religious life of individuals. Many,
very many of the best, most efficient, and most steadily growing Christians in the church exhibit
habitually a keen relish for amusements, and for some which are most sternly condemned, and
participate in them most heartily.

And once more: while at revival seasons in individual churches, a temporary decrease of amusements
may be seen, the more important fact is that the aggregate of Christian society has been for
many years past developing a steadily increasing interest in the subject, and a corresponding
liberality of sentiment respecting it. Scores of Christian men have billiard tables in their
houses. Colleges, from which in years past, students would have been summarily expelled for
rolling ten pins, have now bowling alleys of their own. Even in the corridors of staid old
Williams the sound of the balls may be heard; and the revival record of the college does not
indicate that even this stupendous innovation has wrought to the banishment of the Spirit of
God. The assertors of this inverse ratio between piety and amusement must, in short, dispose
as best they can, of the fact that along with the growth of Christian intelligence, Christian
benevolence, and Christian activity, there has been developed in the church itself a growing
sympathy with many of the very forms of amusement most condemned by the religious sentiment
of an earlier age.

And this too, not on the part of the careless, and pleasure loving, and half-hearted members
of churches, but of men and women high in position in the church; persons of liberal culture
and unquestionable piety. These persons, as well qualified to understand the teachings of God’s
word on this subject as any of the clergy, are asserting their right to act out their own conscientious
convictions in their amusements: claiming that they owe to the resolutions of synods, and conventions
and conferences, no more than candid and respectful consideration, maintaining the privilege
of adopting or rejecting them at pleasure; and accordingly they are throwing open their homes
to certain banned amusements, very much to the enhancement of home attractions; very much to
the detriment of the saloons; very much to the increase of their children’s attachment to home.
Church legislation on this subject has been a humiliating failure. It has not compassed its
intent. Nay, more, it has over-reached itself. It has kept noble and intelligent youth out
of the church by insisting on their relinquishment of certain amusements, in the proper and
moderate use of which they were unable to see evil. It has tended by this insistence to foster
that too common sentiment which paints religion with sombre hues, and couples it with the most
forbidding associations. It has tended to drive some to seek in the more liberal atmosphere
of Unitarianism the liberty of conscience denied them by orthodoxy; and all this it might have
avoided by a clearer recognition of the gospel teaching on this subject: by being less afraid
for the purity of the truth, and by throwing Christian presence, and Christian participation,
and Christian sentiment boldly into the midst of the people’s amusements, with a view less
to exscind than to regulate.

