Upon occasion of a public festivity, being solicited for his contribution by the example of
others, and the people pressing him much, he bade them apply themselves to the wealthy; for
his part he should blush to make a present here, rather than a repayment there, turning and,
pointing to Callicles, the money-lender. Being still clamored upon and importuned, he told
them this tale. A certain cowardly fellow setting out for the wars, hearing the ravens croak
in his passage, threw down his arms, resolving to wait.  Presently he took them and ventured
out again, but hearing the same music, once more made a stop.  "For," said he, "you may croak
till you are tired, but you shall make no dinner upon me."

The Athenians urging him at an unseasonable time to lead them out against the enemy, he peremptorily
refused, and being upbraided by them with cowardice and pusillanimity, he told them, "Just
now, do what you will, I shall not be brave; and do what I will, you will not be cowards. 
Nevertheless, we know well enough what we are." And when again, in a time of great danger,
the people were very harsh upon him, demanding a strict account how the public money had been
employed, and the like, he bade them, "First, good friends, make sure you are safe."  After
a war, during which they had been very tractable and timorous, when, upon peace being made,
they began again to be confident and overbearing, and to cry out upon Phocion, as having lost
them the honor of victory, to all their clamor he made only this answer, "My friends, you are
fortunate in having a leader who knows you; otherwise, you had long since been undone."

Having a controversy with the Boeotians about boundaries, which he counseled them to decide
by negotiation, they inclined to blows. "You had better," said he, "carry on the contest with
the weapons in which you excel, (your tongues,) and not by war, in which you are inferior."
Once, when he was addressing them, and they would not hear him or let him go on, said he, "You
may compel me to act against my wishes, but you shall never force me to speak against my judgment."
Among the many public speakers who opposed him, Demosthenes, for example, once told him, "The
Athenians, Phocion, will kill you some day when they once are in a rage."  "And you," said
he, "if they once are in their senses."  Polyeuctus, the Sphettian, once on a hot day was urging
war with Philip, and being a corpulent man, and out of breath and in a great heat with speaking,
took numerous draughts of water as he went on.  "Here, indeed," said Phocion, "is a fit man
to lead us into a war!  What think you he will do when he is carrying his corslet and his shield
to meet the enemy, if even here, delivering a prepared speech to you has almost killed him
with exhaustion?"  When Lycurgus in the assembly made many reflections on his past conduct,
upbraiding him above all for having advised them to deliver up the ten citizens whom Alexander
had demanded, he replied that he had been the author of much safe and wholesome counsel, which
had not been followed.

There was a man called Archibiades, nicknamed the Lacedaemonian, who used to go about with
a huge overgrown beard, wearing an old threadbare cloak, and affecting a very stern countenance.
Phocion once, when attacked in council by the rest, appealed to this man for his support and
testimony.  And when he got up and began to speak on the popular side, putting his hand to
his beard, "O Archibiades," said he, "it is time you should shave." Aristogiton, a common accuser,
was a terrible man of war within the assembly, always inflaming the people to battle, but when
the muster-roll came to be produced, he appeared limping on a crutch, with a bandage on his
leg; Phocion descried him afar off, coming in, and cried out to the clerk, "Put down Aristogiton,
too, as lame and worthless."

So that it is a little wonderful, how a man so severe and harsh upon all occasions should,
notwithstanding, obtain the name of the Good.  Yet, though difficult, it is not, I suppose,
impossible for men's tempers, any more than for wines, to be at the same time harsh and agreeable
to the taste; just as on the other hand many that are sweet at the first taste, are found,
on further use, extremely disagreeable and very unwholesome.  Hyperides, we are told, once
said to the people, "Do not ask yourselves, men of Athens, whether or not I am bitter, but
whether or not I am paid for being so," as though a covetous purpose were the only thing that
should make a harsh temper insupportable, and as if men might not even more justly render themselves
obnoxious to popular dislike and censure, by using their power and influence in the indulgence
of their own private passions of pride and jealousy, anger and animosity.  Phocion never allowed
himself from any feeling of personal hostility to do hurt to any fellow-citizen, nor, indeed,
reputed any man his enemy, except so far as he could not but contend sharply with such as opposed
the measures he urged for the public good; in which argument he was, indeed, a rude, obstinate,
and uncompromising adversary.  For his general conversation, it was easy, courteous, and obliging
to all, to that point that he would befriend his very opponents in their distress, and espouse
the cause of those who differed most from him, when they needed his patronage.  His friends
reproaching him for pleading in behalf of a man of indifferent character, he told them the
innocent had no need of an advocate.  Aristogiton, the sycophant, whom we mentioned before,
having after sentence passed upon him, sent earnestly to Phocion to speak with him in the prison,
his friends dissuaded him from going; "Nay, by your favor," said he, "where should I rather
choose to pay Aristogiton a visit?"

As for the allies of the Athenians, and the islanders, whenever any admiral besides Phocion
was sent, they treated him as an enemy suspect, barricaded their gates, blocked up their havens,
brought in from the country their cattle, slaves, wives, and children, and put them in garrison;
but upon Phocion's arrival, they went out to welcome him in their private boats and barges,
with streamers and garlands, and received him at landing with every demonstration of joy and
pleasure.

When king Philip was effecting his entry into Euboea, and was bringing over troops from Macedonia,
and making himself master of the cities, by means of the tyrants who ruled in them, Plutarch
of Eretria sent to request aid of the Athenians for the relief of the island, which was in
imminent danger of falling wholly into the hands of the Macedonians.  Phocion was sent thither
with a handful of men in comparison, in expectation that the Euboeans themselves would flock
in and join him.  But when he came, he found all things in confusion, the country all betrayed,
the whole ground, as it were, undermined under his feet, by the secret pensioners of king Philip,
so that he was in the greatest risk imaginable.  To secure himself as far as he could, he seized
a small rising ground, which was divided from the level plains about Tamynae by a deep watercourse,
and here he enclosed and fortified the choicest of his army.  As for the idle talkers and disorderly
bad citizens who ran off from his camp and made their way back, he bade his officers not regard
them, since here they would have been not only useless and ungovernable themselves, but an
actual hindrance to the rest; and further, being conscious to themselves of the neglect of
their duty, they would be less ready to misrepresent the action, or raise a cry against them
at their return home. When the enemy drew nigh, he bade his men stand to their arms, until
he had finished the sacrifice, in which he spent a considerable time, either by some difficulty
of the thing itself, or on purpose to invite the enemy nearer.  Plutarch, interpreting this
tardiness as a failure in his courage, fell on alone with the mercenaries, which the cavalry
perceiving, could not be contained, but issuing also out of the camp, confusedly and in disorder,
spurred up to the enemy.  The first who came up were defeated, the rest were put to the rout,
Plutarch himself took to flight, and a body of the enemy advanced in the hope of carrying the
camp, supposing themselves to have secured the victory.  But by this time, the sacrifice being
over, the Athenians within the camp came forward, and falling upon them put them to flight,
and killed the greater number as they fled among the entrenchments, while Phocion ordering
his infantry to keep on the watch and rally those who came in from the previous flight, himself,
with a body of his best men, engaged the enemy in a sharp and bloody fight, in which all of
them behaved with signal courage and gallantry.  Thallus, the son of Cineas, and Glaucus, of
Polymedes, who fought near the general, gained the honors of the day.  Cleophanes, also, did
good service in the battle.  Recovering the cavalry from its defeat, and with his shouts and
encouragement bringing them up to succor the general, who was in danger, he confirmed the victory
obtained by the infantry.  Phocion now expelled Plutarch from Eretria, and possessed himself
of the very important fort of Zaretra, situated where the island is pinched in, as it were,
by the seas on each side, and its breadth most reduced to a narrow girth.  He released all
the Greeks whom he took out of fear of the public speakers at Athens, thinking they might very
likely persuade the people in their anger into committing some act of cruelty.

This affair thus dispatched and settled, Phocion set sail homewards, and the allies had soon
as good reason to regret the loss of his just and humane dealing, as the Athenians that of
his experience and courage.  Molossus, the commander who took his place, had no better success
than to fall alive into the enemy's hands.  Philip, full of great thoughts and designs, now
advanced with all his forces into the Hellespont, to seize the Chersonesus and Perinthus, and
after them, Byzantium.  The Athenians raised a force to relieve them, but the popular leaders
made it their business to prefer Chares to be general, who, sailing thither, effected nothing
worthy of the means placed in his hands.  The cities were afraid, and would not receive his
ships into their harbors, so that he did nothing but wander about, raising money from their
friends, and despised by their enemies.  And when the people, chafed by the orators, were extremely
indignant, and repented having ever sent any help to the Byzantines, Phocion rose and told
them they ought not to be angry with the allies for distrusting, but with their generals for
being distrusted.  "They make you suspected," he said, "even by those who cannot possibly subsist
without your succor."  The assembly being moved with this speech of his, changed their minds
on the sudden, and commanded him immediately to raise another force, and go himself to assist
their confederates in the Hellespont; an appointment which, in effect, contributed more than
anything to the relief of Byzantium.

For Phocion's name was already honorably known; and an old acquaintance of his, who had been
his fellow-student in the Academy, Leon, a man of high renown for virtue among the Byzantines,
having vouched for Phocion to the city, they opened their gates to receive him, not permitting
him, though he desired it, to encamp without the walls, but entertained him and all the Athenians
with perfect reliance, while they, to requite their confidence, behaved among their new hosts
soberly and inoffensively, and exerted themselves on all occasions with the greatest zeal and
resolution for their defense.  Thus king Philip was driven out of the Hellespont, and was despised
to boot, whom till now, it had been thought impossible to match, or even to oppose.  Phocion
also took some of his ships, and recaptured some of the places he had garrisoned, making besides
several inroads into the country, which he plundered and overran, until he received a wound
from some of the enemy who came to the defense, and, thereupon, sailed away home.

The Megarians at this time privately praying aid of the Athenians, Phocion, fearing lest the
Boeotians should hear of it, and anticipate them, called an assembly at sunrise, and brought
forward the petition of the Megarians, and immediately after the vote had been put, and carried
in their favor, he sounded the trumpet, and led the Athenians straight from the assembly, to
arm and put themselves in posture.  The Megarians received them joyfully, and he proceeded
to fortify Nisea, and built two new long walls from the city to the arsenal, and so joined
it to the sea, so that having now little reason to regard the enemies on the land side, it
placed its dependence entirely on the Athenians.

When final hostilities with Philip were now certain, and in Phocion's absence other generals
had been nominated, he on his arrival from the islands, dealt earnestly with the Athenians,
that since Philip showed peaceable inclinations towards them, and greatly apprehended the danger,
they would consent to a treaty. Being contradicted in this by one of the ordinary frequenters
of the courts of justice, a common accuser, who asked him if he durst presume to persuade the
Athenians to peace, now their arms were in their hands, "Yes," said he, "though I know that
if there be war, I shall be in office over you, and if peace, you over me."  But when he could
not prevail, and Demosthenes's opinion carried it, advising them to make war as far off from
home as possible, and fight the battle out of Attica, "Good friend," said Phocion, "let us
not ask where we shall fight, but how we may conquer in the war.  That will be the way to keep
it at a distance.  If we are beaten, it will be quickly at our doors."  After the defeat, when
the clamorers and incendiaries in the town would have brought up Charidemus to the hustings,
to be nominated to the command, the best of the citizens were in a panic, and supporting themselves
with the aid of the council of the Areopagus, with entreaties and tears hardly prevailed upon
the people to have Phocion entrusted with the care of the city.  He was of opinion, in general,
that the fair terms to be expected from Philip should be accepted, yet after Demades had made
a motion that the city should receive the common conditions of peace in concurrence with the
rest of the states of Greece, he opposed it, till it were known what the particulars were which
Philip demanded.  He was overborne in this advice, under the pressure of the time, but almost
immediately after, the Athenians repented it, when they understood that by these articles,
they were obliged to furnish Philip both with horse and shipping.  "It was the fear of this,"
said Phocion, "that occasioned my opposition.  But since the thing is done, let us make the
best of it, and not be discouraged.  Our forefathers were sometimes in command, and sometimes
under it; and by doing their duty, whether as rulers or as subjects, saved their own country
and the rest of Greece."

Upon the news of Philip's death, he opposed himself to any public demonstrations of joy and
jubilee, saying it would be ignoble to show malice upon such an occasion, and that the army
that had fought them at Chaeronea, was only diminished by a single man.

When Demosthenes made his invectives against Alexander, now on his way to attack Thebes, he
repeated those verses of Homer, --

"Unwise one, wherefore to a second stroke His anger be foolhardy to provoke?"

and asked, "Why stimulate his already eager passion for glory? Why take pains to expose the
city to the terrible conflagration now so near?  We, who accepted office to save our fellow-citizens,
will not, however they desire it, be consenting to their destruction."

After Thebes was lost, and Alexander had demanded Demosthenes, Lycurgus, Hyperides, and Charidemus
to be delivered up, the whole assembly turning their eyes to him, and calling on him by name
to deliver his opinion, at last he rose up, and showing them one of his most intimate friends,
whom he loved and confided in above all others, told them, "You have brought things amongst
you to that pass, that for my part, should he demand this my friend Nicocles, I would not refuse
to give him up.  For as for myself, to have it in my power to sacrifice my own life and fortune
for the common safety, I should think the greatest of good fortune.  Truly," he added, "it
pierces my heart to see those who are fled hither for succor from the desolation of Thebes.
Yet it is enough for Greece to have Thebes to deplore.  It will be more for the interest of
all that we should deprecate the conqueror's anger, and intercede for both, than run the hazard
of another battle."

When this was decreed by the people, Alexander is said to have rejected their first address
when it was presented, throwing it from him scornfully, and turning his back upon the deputation,
who left him in affright.  But the second, which was presented by Phocion, he received, understanding
from the older Macedonians how much Philip had admired and esteemed him.  And he not only gave
him audience and listened to his memorial and petition, but also permitted him to advise him,
which he did to this effect, that if his designs were for quietness, he should make peace at
once; if glory were his aim, he should make war, not upon Greece, but on the barbarians.  And
with various counsels and suggestions, happily designed to meet the genius and feelings of
Alexander, he so won upon him, and softened his temper, that he bade the Athenians not forget
their position, as if anything went wrong with him, the supremacy belonged to them.  And to
Phocion himself, whom he adopted as his friend and guest, he showed a respect, and admitted
him to distinctions, which few of those who were continually near his person ever received.
Duris, at any rate, tells us, that when he became great, and had conquered Darius, in the heading
of all his letters he left off the word Greeting, except in those he wrote to Phocion.  To
him, and to Antipater alone, he condescended to use it.  This, also, is stated by Chares.

As for his munificence to him, it is well known he sent him a present at one time of one hundred
talents; and this being brought to Athens, Phocion asked of the bearers, how it came to pass,
that among all the Athenians, he alone should be the object of this bounty.  And being told
that Alexander esteemed him alone a person of honor and worth, "Let him, then," said he, "permit
me to continue so, and be still so reputed."  Following him to his house, and observing his
simple and plain way of living, his wife employed in kneading bread with her own hands, himself
drawing water to wash his feet, they pressed him to accept it, with some indignation, being
ashamed, as they said, that Alexander's friend should live so poorly and pitifully.  So Phocion
pointing out to them a poor old fellow, in a dirty worn-out coat, passing by, asked them if
they thought him in worse condition than this man. They bade him not mention such a comparison.
"Yet," said Phocion, "he with less to live upon than I, finds it sufficient, and in brief,"
he continued, "if I do not use this money, what good is there in my having it; and if I do
use it, I shall procure an ill name, both for myself and for Alexander, among my countrymen."
So the treasure went back again from Athens, to prove to Greece, by a signal example, that
he who could afford to give so magnificent a present, was yet not so rich as he who could afford
to refuse it. And when Alexander was displeased, and wrote back to him to say that he could
not esteem those his friends, who would not be obliged by him, not even would this induce Phocion
to accept the money, but he begged leave to intercede with him in behalf of Echecratides, the
sophist, and Athenodorus, the Imbrian, as also for Demaratus and Sparton, two Rhodians, who
had been arrested upon some charges, and were in custody at Sardis.  This was instantly granted
by Alexander, and they were set at liberty. Afterwards, when sending Craterus into Macedonia,
he commanded him to make him an offer of four cities in Asia, Cius, Gergithus, Mylasa, and
Elaea, any one of which, at his choice, should be delivered to him; insisting yet more positively
with him, and declaring he should resent it, should he continue obstinate in his refusal. 
But Phocion was not to be prevailed with at all, and, shortly after, Alexander died.

Phocion's house is shown to this day in Melita, ornamented with small plates of copper, but
otherwise plain and homely. Concerning his wives, of the first of them there is little said,
except that she was sister of Cephisodotus, the statuary.  The other was a matron of no less
reputation for her virtues and simple living among the Athenians, than Phocion was for his
probity.  It happened once when the people were entertained with a new tragedy, that the actor,
just as he was to enter the stage to perform the part of a queen, demanded to have a number
of attendants sumptuously dressed, to follow in his train, and on their not being provided,
was sullen and refused to act, keeping the audience waiting, till at last Melanthius, who had
to furnish the chorus, pushed him on the stage, crying out, "What, don't you know that Phocion's
wife is never attended by more than a single waiting woman, but you must needs be grand, and
fill our women's heads with vanity?"  This speech of his, spoken loud enough to be heard, was
received with great applause, and clapped all round the theater.  She herself, when once entertaining
a visitor out of Ionia, who showed her all her rich ornaments, made of gold and set with jewels,
her wreaths, necklaces, and the like, "For my part," said she, "all my ornament is my husband
Phocion, now for the twentieth year in office as general at Athens."

He had a son named Phocus, who wished to take part in the games at the great feast of Minerva.
He permitted him so to do, in the contest of leaping, not with any view to the victory, but
in the hope that the training and discipline for it would make him a better man, the youth
being in a general way a lover of drinking, and ill-regulated in his habits.  On his having
succeeded in the sports, many were eager for the honor of his company at banquets in celebration
of the victory.  Phocion declined all these invitations but one, and when he came to this entertainment
and saw the costly preparations, even the water brought to wash the guests' feet being mingled
with wine and spices, he reprimanded his son, asking him why he would so far permit his friend
to sully the honor of his victory.  And in the hope of wholly weaning the young man from such
habits and company, he sent him to Lacedaemon, and placed him among the youths then under the
course of the Spartan discipline.  This the Athenians took offense at, as though he slighted
and contemned the education at home; and Demades twitted him with it publicly, "Suppose, Phocion,
you and I advise the Athenians to adopt the Spartan constitution.  If you like, I am ready
to introduce a bill to that effect, and to speak in its favor."  "Indeed," said Phocion, "you
with that strong scent of perfumes about you, and with that mantle on your shoulders, are just
the very man to speak in honor of Lycurgus, and recommend the Spartan table."

When Alexander wrote to demand a supply of galleys, and the public speakers objected to sending
them, Phocion, on the council requesting his opinion, told them freely, "Sirs, I would either
have you victorious yourselves, or friends of those who are so." He took up Pytheas, who about
this time first began to address the assembly, and already showed himself a confident, talking
fellow, by saying that a young slave whom the people had but bought yesterday, ought to have
the manners to hold his tongue.  And when Harpalus, who had fled from Alexander out of Asia,
carrying off a large sum of money, came to Attica, and there was a perfect race among the ordinary
public men of the assembly who should be the first to take his pay, he distributed amongst
these some trifling sums by way of a bait and provocative, but to Phocion he made an offer
of no less than seven hundred talents and all manner of other advantages he pleased to demand;
with the compliment that he would entirely commit himself and all his affairs to his disposal.
Phocion answered sharply, Harpalus should repent of it, if he did not quickly leave off corrupting
and debauching the city, which for the time silenced him, and checked his proceedings.  But
afterwards, when the Athenians were deliberating in council about him, he found those that
had received money from him to be his greatest enemies, urging and aggravating matters against
him, to prevent themselves being discovered, whereas Phocion, who had never touched his pay,
now, so far as the public interest would admit of it, showed some regard to his particular
security.  This encouraged him once more to try his inclinations, and upon further survey,
finding that he himself was a fortress, inaccessible on every quarter to the approaches of
corruption, he professed a particular friendship to Phocion's son-in-law, Charicles.  And admitting
him into his confidence in all his affairs, and continually requesting his assistance, he brought
him into some suspicion.  Upon the occasion, for example, of the death of Pythonice, who was
Harpalus's mistress, for whom he had a great fondness, and had a child by her, he resolved
to build her a sumptuous monument, and committed the care of it to his friend Charicles.  This
commission, disreputable enough in itself, was yet further disparaged by the figure the piece
of workmanship made after it was finished.  It is yet to be seen in the Hermeum. as you go
from Athens to Eleusis, with nothing in its appearance answerable to the sum of thirty talents,
with which Charicles is said to have charged Harpalus for its erection.  After Harpalus's own
decease, his daughter was educated by Phocion and Charicles with great care.  But when Charicles
was called to account for his dealings with Harpalus, and entreated his father-in-law's protection,
begging that he would appear for him in the court, Phocion refused, telling him, "I did not
choose you for my son-in-law for any but honorable purposes."

Asclepiades, the son of Hipparchus, brought the first tidings of Alexander's death to Athens,
which Demades told them was not to be credited; for, were it true, the whole world would ere
this have stunk with the dead body.  But Phocion seeing the people eager for an instant revolution,
did his best to quiet and repress them. And when numbers of them rushed up to the hustings
to speak, and cried out that the news was true, and Alexander was dead, "If he is dead today,"
said he, "he will be so tomorrow and the day after tomorrow equally.  So that there is no need
to take counsel hastily or before it is safe."

When Leosthenes now had embarked the city in the Lamian war, greatly against Phocion's wishes,
to raise a laugh against Phocion, he asked him scoffingly, what the State had been benefited
by his having now so many years been general.  "It is not a little," said Phocion, "that the
citizens have been buried in their own sepulchers."  And when Leosthenes continued to speak
boldly and boastfully in the assembly, "Young man," he said, "your speeches are like cypress
trees, stately and tall, and no fruit to come of them."  And when he was then attacked by Hyperides,
who asked him when the time would come, that he would advise the Athenians to make war, "As
soon," said he, "as I find the young men keep their ranks, the rich men contribute their money,
and the Orators leave off robbing the treasury."  Afterwards, when many admired the forces
raised, and the preparations for war that were made by Leosthenes, they asked Phocion how he
approved of the new levies.  "Very well," said he, "for the short course; but what I fear,
is the long race. Since however late the war may last, the city has neither money, ships, nor
soldiers, but these."  And the event justified his prognostics.  At first all things appeared
fair and promising.  Leosthenes gained great reputation by worsting the Boeotians  in battle,
and driving Antipater within the walls of Lamia, and the citizens were so transported with
the first successes, that they kept solemn festivities for them, and offered public sacrifices
to the gods.  So that some, thinking Phocion must now be convinced of his error, asked him
whether he would not willingly have been author of these successful actions. "Yes," said he,
"most gladly, but also of the former counsel." And when one express after another came from
the camp, confirming and magnifying the victories, "When," said he, "will the end of them come?"

Leosthenes, soon after, was killed, and now those who feared lest if Phocion obtained the command,
he would put an end to the war, arranged with an obscure person in the assembly, who should
stand up and profess himself to be a friend and old confidant of Phocion's, and persuade the
people to spare him at this time, and reserve him (with whom none could compare) for a more
pressing occasion, and now to give Antiphilus the command of the army. This pleased the generality,
but Phocion made it appear he was so far from having any friendship with him of old standing,
that he had not so much as the least familiarity with him; "Yet now, sir," says he, "give me
leave to put you down among the number of my friends and well-wishers, as you have given a
piece of advice so much to my advantage."

And when the people were eager to make an expedition against the Boeotians, he at first opposed
it; and on his friends telling him the people would kill him, for always running counter to
them, "That will be unjust of them," he said, "if I give them honest advice, if not, it will
be just of them.''  But when he found them persisting and shouting to him to lead them out,
he commanded the crier to make proclamation, that all the Athenians under sixty should instantly
provide themselves with five days' provision, and follow him from the assembly.  This caused
a great tumult.  Those in years were startled, and clamored against the order; he demanded
wherein he injured them, "For I," says he, "am now fourscore, and am ready to lead you."  This
succeeded in pacifying them for the present.

But when Micion, with a large force of Macedonians and mercenaries, began to pillage the sea-coast,
having made a descent upon Rhamnus, and overrun the neighboring country, Phocion led out the
Athenians to attack him.  And when sundry private persons came, intermeddling with his dispositions,
and telling him that he ought to occupy such or such a hill, detach the cavalry in this or
that direction, engage the enemy on this point or that, "O Hercules," said he, "how many generals
have we here, and how few soldiers!"  Afterwards, having formed the battle, one who wished
to show his bravery, advanced out of his post before the rest, but on the enemy's approaching,
lost heart, and retired back into his rank.  "Young man," said Phocion, "are you not ashamed
twice in one day to desert your station, first that on which I had placed you, and secondly,
that on which you had placed yourself?" However, he entirely routed the enemy, killing Micion
and many more on the spot.  The Grecian army, also, in Thessaly, after Leonnatus and the Macedonians
who came with him out of Asia, had arrived and joined Antipater, fought and beat them in a
battle. Leonnatus was killed in the fight, Antiphilus commanding the foot, and Menon, the Thessalian,
the horse.

But not long after, Craterus crossed from Asia with numerous forces; a pitched battle was fought
at Cranon; the Greeks were beaten; though not, indeed, in a signal defeat, nor with any great
loss of men.  But what with their want of obedience to their commanders, who were young and
over-indulgent with them, and what with Antipater's tampering and treating with their separate
cities, one by one, the end of it was that the army was dissolved, and the Greeks shamefully
surrendered the liberty of their country.

Upon the news of Antipater's now advancing at once against Athens with all his force, Demosthenes
and Hyperides deserted the city, and Demades, who was altogether insolvent for any part of
the fines that had been laid upon him by the city, for he had been condemned no less than seven
times for introducing bills contrary to the laws, and who had been disfranchised, and was no
longer competent to vote in the assembly, laid hold of this season of impunity, to bring in
a bill for sending ambassadors with plenipotentiary power to Antipater, to treat about a peace.
But the people distrusted him, and called upon Phocion to give his opinion, as the person they
only and entirely confided in.  He told them, "If my former counsels had been prevalent with
you, we had not been reduced to deliberate on the question at all." However, the vote passed;
and a decree was made, and he with others deputed to go to Antipater, who lay now encamped
in the Theban territories, but intended to dislodge immediately, and pass into Attica.  Phocion's
first request was, that he would make the treaty without moving his camp.  And when Craterus
declared that it was not fair to ask them to be burdensome to the country of their friends
and allies by their stay, when they might rather use that of their enemies for provisions and
the support of their army, Antipater taking him by the hand, said, "We must grant this favor
to Phocion."  For the rest, he bade them return to their principals, and acquaint them that
he could only offer them the same terms, namely, to surrender at discretion, which Leosthenes
had offered to him when he was shut up in Lamia.

When Phocion had returned to the city, and acquainted them with this answer, they made a virtue
of necessity, and complied, since it would be no better.  So Phocion returned to Thebes with
the other ambassadors, and among the rest, Xenocrates, the philosopher, the reputation of whose
virtue and wisdom was so great and famous everywhere, that they conceived there could not be
any pride, cruelty, or anger arising in the heart of man, which would not at the mere sight
of him be subdued into something of reverence and admiration.  But the result, as it happened,
was the very opposite, Antipater showed such a want of feeling, and such a dislike of goodness.
He saluted everyone else, but would not so much as notice Xenocrates.  Xenocrates, they tell
us, observed upon it, that Antipater when meditating such cruelty to Athens, did well to be
ashamed of seeing him. When he began to speak, he would not hear him, but broke in and rudely
interrupted him, until at last he was obliged to he silent.  But when Phocion had declared
the purport of their embassy, he replied shortly, that he would make peace with the Athenians
on these conditions, and no others; that Demosthenes and Hyperides should be delivered up to
him; that they should retain their ancient form of government, the franchise being determined
by a property qualification; that they should receive a garrison into Munychia, and pay a certain
sum for the cost of the war.  As things stood, these terms were judged tolerable by the rest
of the ambassadors; Xenocrates only said, that if Antipater considered the Athenians slaves,
he was treating them fairly, but if free, severely.  Phocion pressed him only to spare them
the garrison, and used many arguments and entreaties. Antipater replied, "Phocion, we are ready
to do you any favor, which will not bring ruin both on ourselves and on you."  Others report
it differently; that Antipater asked Phocion, supposing he remitted the garrison to the Athenians,
would he, Phocion, stand surety for the city's observing the terms and attempting no revolution?
And when he hesitated, and did not at once reply, Callimedon, the Carabus, a hot partisan and
professed enemy of free states, cried out, "And if he should talk so idly, Antipater, will
you be so much abused as to believe him and not carry out your own purpose?"  So the Athenians
received the garrison, and Menyllus for the governor, a fair-dealing man, and one of Phocion's
acquaintance.

But the proceeding seemed sufficiently imperious and arbitrary, indeed rather a spiteful and
insulting ostentation of power, than that the possession of the fortress would be of any great
importance.  The resentment felt upon it was heightened by the time it happened in, for the
garrison was brought in on the twentieth of the month of Boedromion, just at the time of the
great festival, when they carry forth Iacchus with solemn pomp from the city to Eleusis; so
that the solemnity being disturbed, many began to call to mind instances, both ancient and
modern, of divine interventions and intimations.  For in old time, upon the occasions of their
happiest successes, the presence of the shapes and voices of the mystic ceremonies had been
vouchsafed to them, striking terror and amazement into their enemies; but now, at the very
season of their celebration, the gods themselves stood witnesses of the saddest oppressions
of Greece, the most holy time being profaned, and their greatest jubilee made the unlucky date
of their most extreme calamity.  Not many years before, they had a warning from the oracle
at Dodona, that they should carefully guard the summits of Diana, lest haply strangers should
seize them.  And about this very time, when they dyed the ribbons and garlands with which they
adorn the couches and cars of the procession, instead of a purple they received only a faint
yellow color; and to make the omen yet greater, all the things that were dyed for common use,
took the natural color.  While a candidate for initiation was washing a young pig in the haven
of Cantharus, a shark seized him, bit off all his lower parts up to the belly, and devoured
them, by which the god gave them manifestly to understand, that having lost the lower town
and the sea-coast, they should keep only the upper city.

Menyllus was sufficient security that the garrison should behave itself inoffensively.  But
those who were now excluded from the franchise by poverty, amounted to more than twelve thousand;
so that both those that remained in the city thought themselves oppressed and shamefully used,
and those who on this account left their homes and went away into Thrace, where Antipater offered
them a town and some territory to inhabit, regarded themselves only as a colony of slaves and
exiles.  And when to this was added the deaths of Demosthenes at Calauria, and of Hyperides
at Cleonae, as we have elsewhere related, the citizens began to think with regret of Philip
and Alexander, and almost to wish the return of those times.  And as, after Antigonus was slain,
when those that had taken him off were afflicting and oppressing the people, a countryman in
Phrygia, digging in the fields, was asked what he was doing, "I am," said he, fetching a deep
sigh, "searching for Antigonus;" so said many that remembered those days, and the contests
they had with those kings, whose anger, however great, was yet generous and placable; whereas
Antipater, with the counterfeit humility of appearing like a private man, in the meanness of
his dress  and his homely fare, merely belied his real love of that arbitrary power, which
he exercised, as a cruel master and despot, to distress those under his command.  Yet Phocion
had interest with him to recall many from banishment by his intercession, and prevailed also
for those who were driven out, that they might not, like others, be hurried beyond Taenarus,
and the mountains of Ceraunia, but remain in Greece, and plant themselves in Peloponnesus,
of which number was Agnonides, the sycophant.  He was no less studious to manage the affairs
within the city with equity and moderation, preferring constantly those that were men of worth
and good education to the magistracies, and recommending the busy and turbulent talkers, to
whom it was a mortal blow to be excluded from office and public debating, to learn to stay
at home, and be content to till their land.  And observing that Xenocrates paid his alien-tax
as a foreigner, he offered him the freedom of the city, which he refused, saying he could not
accept a franchise which he had been sent, as an ambassador, to deprecate.

Menyllus wished to give Phocion a considerable present of money, who, thanking him, said, neither
was Menyllus greater than Alexander, nor his own occasions more urgent to receive it now, than
when he refused it from him..  And on his pressing him to permit his son Phocus to receive
it, he replied, "If my son returns to a right mind, his patrimony is sufficient; if not, all
supplies will be insufficient."  But to Antipater he answered more sharply, who would have
him engaged in something dishonorable. "Antipater," said he, "cannot have me both as his friend
and his flatterer."  And, indeed, Antipater was wont to say, he had two friends at Athens,
Phocion and Demades; the one would never suffer him to gratify him at all, the other would
never be satisfied. Phocion might well think that poverty a virtue, in which, after having
so often been general of the Athenians, and admitted to the friendship of potentates and princes,
he had now grown old. Demades, meantime, delighted in lavishing his wealth even in positive
transgressions of the law.  For there having been an order that no foreigner should be hired
to dance in any chorus on the penalty of a fine of one thousand drachmas on the exhibitor,
he had the vanity to exhibit an entire chorus of a hundred foreigners, and paid down the penalty
of a thousand drachmas a head upon the stage itself.  Marrying his son Demeas, he told him
with the like vanity, "My son, when I married your mother, it was done so privately it was
not known to the next neighbors, but kings and princes give presents at your nuptials."

The garrison in Munychia continued to be felt as a great grievance, and the Athenians did not
cease to be importunate upon Phocion, to prevail with Antipater for its removal; but whether
he despaired of effecting it, or perhaps observed the people to be more orderly, and public
matters more reasonably conducted by the awe that was thus created, he constantly declined
the office, and contented himself with obtaining from Antipater the postponement for the present
of the payment of the sum of money in which the city was fined.  So the people, leaving him
off, applied themselves to Demades, who readily undertook the employment, and took along with
him his son also into Macedonia; and some superior power, as it seems, so ordering it, he came
just at that nick of time, when Antipater was already seized with his sickness, and Cassander,
taking upon himself the command, had found a letter of Demades's, formerly written by him to
Antigonus in Asia, recommending him to come and possess himself of the empire of Greece and
Macedon, now hanging, he said, (a scoff at Antipater,) "by an old and rotten thread."  So when
Cassander saw him come, he seized him; and first brought out the son and killed him so close
before his face, that the blood ran all over his clothes and person, and then, after bitterly
taunting and upbraiding him with his ingratitude and treachery, dispatched him himself.

Antipater being dead, after nominating Polysperchon general-in-chief, and Cassander commander
of the cavalry, Cassander at once set up for himself and immediately dispatched Nicanor to
Menyllus, to succeed him in the command of the garrison, commanding him to possess himself
of Munychia before the news of Antipater's death should be heard; which being done, and some
days after the Athenians hearing the report of it, Phocion was taxed as privy to it before,
and censured heavily for dissembling it, out of friendship for Nicanor.  But he slighted their
talk, and making it his duty to visit and confer continually with Nicanor, he succeeded in
procuring his good-will and kindness for the Athenians, and induced him even to put himself
to trouble and expense to seek popularity with them, by undertaking the office of presiding
at the games.

In the meantime Polysperchon, who was entrusted with the charge of the king, to countermine
Cassander, sent a letter to the city, declaring in the name of the king, that he restored them
their democracy, and that the whole Athenian people were at liberty to conduct their commonwealth
according to their ancient customs and constitutions.  The object of these pretenses was merely
the overthrow of Phocion's influence, as the event manifested.  For Polysperchon's design being
to possess himself of the city, he despaired altogether of bringing it to pass, whilst Phocion
retained his credit; and the most certain way to ruin him, would be again to fill the city
with a crowd of disfranchised citizens, and let loose the tongues of the demagogues and common
accusers.

With this prospect, the Athenians were all in excitement, and Nicanor, wishing to confer with
them on the subject, at a meeting of the Council in Piraeus, came himself, trusting for the
safety of his person to Phocion.  And when Dercyllus, who commanded the guard there, made an
attempt to seize him, upon notice of it beforehand, he made his escape, and there was little
doubt he would now lose no time in righting himself upon the city for the affront; and when
Phocion was found fault with for letting him get off and not securing him, he defended himself
by saying that he had no mistrust of Nicanor, nor the least reason to expect any mischief from
him, but should it prove otherwise, for his part he would have them all know, he would rather
receive than do the wrong.  And so far as he spoke for himself alone, the answer was honorable
and high-minded enough, but he who hazards his country's safety, and that, too, when he is
her magistrate and chief commander, can scarcely he acquitted, I fear, of transgressing a higher
and more sacred obligation of justice, which he owed to his fellow citizens.  For it will not
even do to say, that he dreaded the involving the city in war, by seizing Nicanor, and hoped
by professions of confidence and just-dealing, to retain him in the observance of the like;
but it was, indeed, his credulity and confidence in him, and an overweening opinion of his
sincerity, that imposed upon him.  So that notwithstanding the sundry intimations he had of
his making preparations to attack Piraeus, sending soldiers over into Salamis, and tampering
with, and endeavoring to corrupt various residents in Piraeus, he would, notwithstanding all
this evidence, never be persuaded to believe it.  And even when Philomedes of Lampra had got
a decree passed, that all the Athenians should stand to their arms, and be ready to follow
Phocion their general, he yet sat still and did nothing, until Nicanor actually led his troops
out from Munychia, and drew trenches about Piraeus; upon which, when Phocion at last would
have led out the Athenians, they cried out against him, and slighted his orders.

Alexander, the son of Polysperchon, was at hand with a considerable force, and professed to
come to give them succor against Nicanor, but intended nothing less, if possible, than to surprise
the city, whilst they were in tumult and divided among themselves.  For all that had previously
been expelled from the city, now coming back with him, made their way into it, and were joined
by a mixed multitude of foreigners and disfranchised persons, and of these a motley and irregular
public assembly came together, in which they presently divested Phocion of all power, and chose
other generals; and if, by chance Alexander had not been spied from the walls, alone in close
conference with Nicanor, and had not this, which was often repeated, given the Athenians cause
of suspicion, the city had not escaped the snare.  The orator Agnonides, however, at once fell
foul upon Phocion, and impeached him of treason; Callimedon and Charicles, fearing the worst,
consulted their own security by flying from the city; Phocion, with a few of his friends that
stayed with him, went over to Polysperchon, and out of respect for him, Solon of Plataea, and
Dinarchus of Corinth, who were reputed friends and confidants of Polysperchon, accompanied
him.  But on account of Dinarchus falling ill, they remained several days in Elatea, during
which time, upon the persuasion of Agnonides and on the motion of Archestratus a decree passed
that the people should send delegates thither to accuse Phocion.  So both parties reached Polysperchon
at the same time, who was going through the country with the king, and was then at a small
village of Phocis, Pharygae, under the mountain now called Galate, but then Acrurium.

There Polysperchon, having set up the golden canopy, and seated the king and his company under
it, ordered Dinarchus at once to be taken, and tortured, and put to death; and that done, gave
audience to the Athenians, who filled the place with noise and tumult, accusing and recriminating
on one another, till at last Agnonides came forward, and requested they might all be shut up
together in one cage, and conveyed to Athens, there to decide the controversy.  At that the
king could not forbear smiling, but the company that attended, for their own amusement, Macedonians
and strangers, were eager to hear the altercation, and made signs to the delegates to go on
with their case at once.  But it was no sort of fair hearing.  Polysperchon frequently interrupted
Phocion, till at last Phocion struck his staff on the ground, and declined to speak further.
And when Hegemon said, Polysperchon himself could bear witness to his affection for the people,
Polysperchon called out fiercely, "Give over slandering me to the king," and the king starting
up was about to have run him through with his javelin, but Polysperchon interposed and hindered
him; so that the assembly dissolved.

Phocion, then, and those about him, were seized; those of his friends that were not immediately
by him, on seeing this, hid their faces, and saved themselves by flight.  The rest Clitus took
and brought to Athens, to be submitted to trial; but, in truth, as men already sentenced to
die.  The manner of conveying them was indeed extremely moving; they were carried in chariots
through the Ceramicus, straight to the place of judicature, where Clitus secured them till
they had convoked an assembly of the people, which was open to all comers, neither foreigners,
nor slaves, nor those who had been punished with disfranchisement, being refused admittance,
but all alike, both men and women, being allowed to come into the court, and even upon the
place of speaking.  So having read the king's letters, in which he declared he was satisfied
himself that these men were traitors, however, they being a free city, he willingly accorded
them the grace of trying and judging them according to their own laws, Clitus brought in his
prisoners.  Every respectable citizen, at the sight of Phocion, covered up his face, and stooped
down to conceal his tears.  And one of them had the courage to say, that since the king had
committed so important a cause to the judgment of the people, it would be well that the strangers,
and those of servile condition, should withdraw.  But the populace would not endure it, crying
out they were oligarchs, and enemies to the liberty of the people, and deserved to be stoned;
after which no man durst offer anything further in Phocion's behalf.  He was himself with difficulty
heard at all, when he put the question, "Do you wish to put us to death lawfully, or unlawfully?"
Some answered, "According to law." He replied, "How can you, except we have a fair hearing?"
But when they were deaf to all he said, approaching nearer, "As to myself," said he, "I admit
my guilt, and pronounce my public conduct to have deserved sentence of death.  But why, O men
of Athens, kill others who have offended in nothing?"  The rabble cried out, they were his
friends, that was enough.  Phocion therefore drew back, and said no more.

Then Agnonides read the bill, in accordance with which the people should decide by show of
hands whether they judged them guilty, and if so it should be found, the penalty should be
death.  When this had been read out, some desired it might be added to the sentence, that Phocion
should be tortured also, and that the rack should be produced with the executioners.  But Agnonides
perceiving even Clitus to dislike this, and himself thinking it horrid and barbarous, said,
"When we catch that slave, Callimedon, men of Athens, we will put him to the rack, but I shall
make no motion of the kind in Phocion's case."  Upon which one of the better citizens remarked,
he was quite right; "If we should torture Phocion, what could we do to you?"  So the form of
the bill was approved of, and the show of hands called for; upon which, not one man retaining
his seat, but all rising up, and some with garlands on their heads, they condemned them all
to death.

There were present with Phocion, Nicocles, Thudippus, Hegemon, and Pythocles.  Demetrius the
Phalerian, Callimedon, Charicles, and some others, were included in the condemnation, being absent.

After the assembly was dismissed, they were carried to the prison; the rest with cries and
lamentations, their friends and relatives following; and clinging about them, but Phocion looking
(as men observed with astonishment at his calmness and magnanimity) just the same as when he
had been used to return to his home attended, as general, from the assembly.  His enemies ran
along by his side, reviling and abusing him.  And one of them coming up to him, spat in his
face; at which Phocion, turning to the officers, only said, "You should stop this indecency."
Thudippus, on their reaching the prison, when he observed the executioner tempering the poison
and preparing it for them, gave way to his passion, and began to bemoan his condition and the
hard measure he received, thus unjustly to suffer with Phocion.  "You cannot be contented,"
said he, "to die with Phocion?"  One of his friends that stood by, asked him if he wished to
have anything said to his son.  "Yes, by all means," said he, "bid him bear no grudge against
the Athenians."  Then Nicocles, the dearest and most faithful of his friends, begged to be
allowed to drink the poison first.  "My friend," said he, "you ask what I am loath and sorrowful
to give, but as I never yet in all my life was so thankless as to refuse you, I must gratify
you in this also."  After they had all drunk of it, the poison ran short; and the executioner
refused to prepare more, except they would pay him twelve drachmas, to defray the cost of the
quantity required.  Some delay was made, and time spent, when Phocion called one of his friends,
and observing that a man could not even die at Athens without paying for it, requested him
to give the sum.

It was the nineteenth day of the month Munychion, on which it was the usage to have a solemn
procession in the city, in honor of Jupiter.  The horsemen, as they passed by, some of them
threw away their garlands, others stopped, weeping, and casting sorrowful looks towards the
prison doors, and all the citizens whose minds were not absolutely debauched by spite and passion,
or who had any humanity left, acknowledged it to have been most impiously done, not, at least,
to let that day pass, and the city so be kept pure from death and a public execution at the
solemn festival.  But as if this triumph had been insufficient, the malice of Phocion's enemies
went yet further; his dead body was excluded from burial within the boundaries of the country,
and none of the Athenians could light a funeral pile to burn the corpse; neither durst any
of his friends venture to concern themselves about it.  A certain Conopion, a man who used
to do these offices for hire, took the body and carried it beyond Eleusis, and procuring fire
from over the frontier of Megara, burned it.  Phocion's wife, with her servant-maids, being
present and assisting at the solemnity, raised there an empty tomb, and performed the customary
libations, and gathering up the bones in her lap, and bringing them home by night, dug a place
for them by the fireside in her house, saying, "Blessed hearth, to your custody I commit the
remains of a good and brave man; and, I beseech you, protect and restore them to the sepulcher
of his fathers, when the Athenians return to their right minds."

And, indeed, a very little time and their own sad experience soon informed them what an excellent
governor, and how great an example and guardian of justice and of temperance they had bereft
themselves of.  And now they decreed him a statue of brass, and his bones to be buried honorably
at the public charge; and for his accusers, Agnonides they took themselves, and caused him
to be put to death.  Epicurus and Demophilus, who fled from the city for fear, his son met
with, and took his revenge upon them.  This son of his, we are told, was in general of an indifferent
character, and once, when enamored of a slave girl kept by a common harlot merchant, happened
to hear Theodorus, the atheist, arguing in the Lyceum, that if it were a good and honorable
thing to buy the freedom of a friend in the masculine, why not also of a friend in the feminine,
if, for example, a master, why not also a mistress? So putting the good argument and his passion
together, he went off and purchased the girl's freedom.  The death which was thus suffered
by Phocion, revived among the Greeks the memory of that of Socrates, the two cases being so
similar, and both equally the sad fault and misfortune of the city.

CATO THE YOUNGER

The family of Cato derived its first luster from his great-grandfather Cato, whose virtue gained
him such great reputation and authority among the Romans, as we have written in his life.

This Cato was, by the loss of both his parents, left an orphan, together with his brother Caepio,
and his sister Porcia.  He had also a half-sister, Servilia, by the mother's side.  All these
lived together, and were bred up in the house of Livius Drusus, their uncle by the mother who,
at that time, had a great share in the government, being a very eloquent speaker, a man of
the greatest temperance, and yielding in dignity to none of the Romans.

It is said of Cato, that even from his infancy, in his speech, his countenance, and all his
childish pastimes, he discovered an inflexible temper, unmoved by any passion, and firm in
everything.  He was resolute in his purposes, much beyond the strength of his age, to go through
with whatever he undertook. He was rough and ungentle toward those that flattered him, and
still more unyielding to those who threatened him.  It was difficult to excite him to laughter;
his countenance seldom relaxed even into a smile; he was not quickly or easily provoked to
anger, but if once incensed, he was no less difficult to pacify.

When he began to learn, he proved dull, and slow to apprehend, but of what he once received,
his memory was remarkably tenacious.  And such, in fact, we find generally to be the course
of nature; men of fine genius are readily reminded of things, but those who receive with most
pains and difficulty, remember best; every new thing they learn, being, as it were, burnt and
branded in on their minds.  Cato's natural stubbornness and slowness to be persuaded, may also
have made it more difficult for him to be taught.  For to learn, is to submit to have something
done to one; and persuasion comes soonest to those who have least strength to resist it.  Hence
young men are sooner persuaded than those that are more in years, and sick men, than those
that are well in health In fine, where there is least previous doubt and difficulty the new
impression is most easily accepted.  Yet Cato, they say, was very obedient to his preceptor,
and would do whatever he was commanded; but he would also ask the reason, and inquire the cause
of everything.  And, indeed, his teacher was a very well-bred man, more ready to instruct,
than to beat his scholars.  His name was Sarpedon.

When Cato was a child, the allies of the Romans sued to be made free citizens of Rome.  Pompaedius
Silo, one of their deputies, a brave soldier, and a man of great repute, who had contracted
a friendship with Drusus, lodged at his house for several days, in which time being grown familiar
with the children, "Well," said he to them, "will you entreat your uncle to befriend us in
our business?"  Caepio, smiling, assented, but Cato made no answer, only he looked steadfastly
and fiercely on the strangers.  Then said Pompaedius, "And you, young sir, what say you to
us? will not you, as well as your brother, intercede with your uncle in our behalf?"  And when
Cato continued to give no answer, by his silence and his countenance seeming to deny their
petition, Pompaedius snatched him up to the window as if he would throw him out, and told him
to consent, or he would fling him down, and, speaking in a harsher tone, held his body out
of the window, and shook him several times.  When Cato had suffered this a good while, unmoved
and unalarmed, Pompaedius setting him down, said in an under-voice to his friend, "What a blessing
for Italy, that he is but a child!  If he were a man, I believe we should not gain one voice
among the people."  Another time, one of his relations, on his birthday, invited Cato and some
other children to supper, and some of the company diverted themselves in a separate part of
the house, and were at play, the elder and the younger together, their sport being to act the
pleadings before the judges, accusing one another, and carrying away the condemned to prison.
Among these a very beautiful young child, being bound and carried by a bigger into prison,
cried out to Cato, who seeing what was going on, presently ran to the door, and thrusting away
those who stood there as guard, took out the child, and went home in anger, followed by some
of his companions.

Cato at length grew so famous among them, that when Sylla designed to exhibit the sacred game
of young men riding courses on horseback, which they called Troy, having gotten together the
youth of good birth, he appointed two for their leaders.  One of them they accepted for his
mother's sake, being the son of Metella, the wife of Sylla; but as for the other, Sextus, the
nephew of Pompey, they would not be led by him, nor exercise under him.  Then Sylla asking,
whom they would have, they all cried out, Cato; and Sextus willingly yielded the honor to him,
as the more worthy.

Sylla, who was a friend of their family, sent at times for Cato and his brother to see them
and talk with them; a favor which he showed to very few, after gaining his great power and
authority. Sarpedon, full of the advantage it would be, as well for the honor as the safety
of his scholars, would often bring Cato to wait upon Sylla at his house, which, for the multitude
of those that were being carried off in custody, and tormented there, looked like a place of
execution.  Cato was then in his fourteenth year, and seeing the heads of men said to be of
great distinction brought thither, and observing the secret sighs of those that were present,
he asked his preceptor, "Why does nobody kill this man?''  "Because," said he, "they fear him,
child, more than they hate him."  "Why, then," replied Cato, "did you not give me a sword,
that I might stab him, and free my country from this slavery?"  Sarpedon hearing this, and
at the same time seeing his countenance swelling with anger and determination, took care thenceforward
to watch him strictly, lest he should hazard any desperate attempt.

While he was yet very young, to some that asked him, whom he loved best, he answered, his brother.
And being asked, whom next, he replied, his brother, again.  So likewise the third time, and
still the same, till they left off to ask any further. As he grew in age, this love to his
brother grew yet the stronger.  When he was about twenty years old, he never supped, never
went out of town, nor into the forum, without Caepio.  But when his brother made use of precious
ointments and perfumes, Cato declined them; and he was, in all his habits, very strict and
austere, so that when Caepio was admired for his moderation and temperance, he would acknowledge
that indeed he might be accounted such, in comparison with some other men, "but," said he,
"when I compare myself with Cato, I find myself scarcely different from Sippius," one at that
time notorious for his luxurious and effeminate living.

Cato being made priest of Apollo, went to another house, took his portion of their paternal
inheritance, amounting to a hundred and twenty talents, and began to live yet more strictly
than before. Having gained the intimate acquaintance of Antipater the Tyrian, the Stoic philosopher,
he devoted himself to the study, above everything, of moral and political doctrine.  And though
possessed, as it were, by a kind of inspiration for the pursuit of every virtue, yet what most
of all virtue and excellence fixed his affection, was that steady and inflexible Justice, which
is not to be wrought upon by favor or compassion.  He learned also the art of speaking and
debating in public, thinking that political philosophy, like a great city, should maintain
for its security the military and warlike element. But he would never recite his exercises
before company, nor was he ever heard to declaim.  And to one that told him, men blamed his
silence, "But I hope not my life," he replied, "I will begin to speak, when I have that to
say which had not better be unsaid."

The great Porcian Hall, as it was called, had been built and dedicated to the public use by
the old Cato, when aedile.  Here the tribunes of the people used to transact their business,
and because one of the pillars was thought to interfere with the convenience of their seats,
they deliberated whether it were best to remove it to another place, or to take it away.  This
occasion first drew Cato, much against his will, into the forum; for he opposed the demand
of the tribunes, and in so doing, gave a specimen both of his courage and his powers of speaking,
which gained him great admiration.  His speech had nothing youthful or refined in it, but was
straightforward, full of matter, and rough, at the same time that there was a certain grace
about his rough statements which won the attention; and the speaker's character showing itself
in all he said, added to his severe language something that excited feelings of natural pleasure
and interest.  His voice was full and sounding, and sufficient to be heard by so great a multitude,
and its vigor and capacity of endurance quite indefatigable; for he often would speak a whole
day, and never stop.

When he had carried this cause, he betook himself again to study and retirement.  He employed
himself in inuring his body to labor and violent exercise; and habituated himself to go bareheaded
in the hottest and the coldest weather, and to walk on foot at all seasons.  When he went on
a journey with any of his friends, though they were on horseback and he on foot, yet he would
often join now one, then another, and converse with them on the way. In sickness, the patience
he showed in supporting, and the abstinence he used for curing his distempers, were admirable.
When he had an ague, he would remain alone, and suffer nobody to see him, till he began to
recover, and found the fit was over. At supper, when he threw dice for the choice of dishes,
and lost, and the company offered him nevertheless his choice, he declined to dispute, as he
said, the decision of Venus. At first, he was wont to drink only once after supper, and then
go away; but in process of time he grew to drink more, insomuch that oftentimes he would continue
till morning.  This his friends explained by saying that state affairs and public business
took him up all day, and being desirous of knowledge, he liked to pass the night at wine in
the conversation of philosophers.  Hence, upon one Memmius saying in public, that Cato spent
whole nights in drinking, "You should add," replied Cicero, "that he spends whole days in gambling."
And in general Cato esteemed the customs and manners of men at that time so corrupt, and a
reformation in them so necessary, that he thought it requisite, in many things, to go contrary
to the ordinary way of the world.  Seeing the lightest and gayest purple was then most in fashion,
he would always wear that which was nearest black; and he would often go out of doors, after
his morning meal, without either shoes or tunic; not that he sought vainglory from such novelties,
but he would accustom himself to be ashamed only of what deserves shame, and to despise all
other sorts of disgrace.

The estate of one Cato, his cousin, which was worth one hundred talents, falling to him, he
turned it all into ready money, which he kept by him for any of his friends that should happen
to want, to whom he would lend it without interest.  And for some of them, he suffered his
own land and his slaves to be mortgaged to the public treasury.

When he thought himself of an age fit to marry, having never before known any woman, he was
contracted to Lepida, who had before been contracted to Metellus Scipio, but on Scipio's own
withdrawal from it, the contract had been dissolved, and she left at liberty.  Yet Scipio afterward
repenting himself, did all he could to regain her, before the marriage with Cato was completed,
and succeeded in so doing.  At which Cato was violently incensed, and resolved at first to
go to law about it; but his friends persuaded him to the contrary.  However, he was so moved
by the heat of youth and passion, that he wrote a quantity of iambic verses against Scipio,
in the bitter, sarcastic style of Archilochus, without, however, his license and scurrility.
After this, he married Atilia, the daughter of Soranus, the first, but not the only woman he
ever knew, less happy thus far than Laelius, the friend of Scipio, who in the whole course
of so long a life never knew but the one woman to whom he was united in his first and only
marriage.

In the war of the slaves, which took its name from Spartacus, their ringleader, Gellius was
general, and Cato went a volunteer, for the sake of his brother Caepio, who was a tribune in
the army.  Cato could find here no opportunity to show his zeal or exercise his valor, on account
of the ill conduct of the general. However, amidst the corruption and disorders of that army,
he showed such a love of discipline, so much bravery upon occasion, and so much courage and
wisdom in everything, that it appeared he was no way inferior to the old Cato.  Gellius offered
him great rewards, and would have decreed him the first honors; which, however, he refused,
saying, he had done nothing that deserved them.  This made him be thought a man of a strange
and eccentric temper.

There was a law passed, moreover, that the candidates who stood for any office should not have
prompters in their canvass, to tell them the names of the citizens;  and Cato, when he sued
to be elected tribune, was the only man that obeyed this law.  He took great pains to learn
by his own knowledge to salute those he had to speak with, and to call them by their names;
yet even those who praised him for this, did not do so without some envy and jealousy, for
the more they considered the excellence of what he did, the more they were grieved at the difficulty
they found to do the like.

Being chosen tribune, he was sent into Macedon to join Rubrius, who was general there.  It
is said that his wife showing much concern, and weeping at his departure, Munatius, one of
Cato's friends, said to her, "Do not trouble yourself, Atilia, I will engage to watch over
him for you."  "By all means," replied Cato; and when they had gone one day's journey together,
"Now," said he to Munatius, after they had supped, "that you may be sure to keep your promise
to Atilia, you must not leave me day nor night," and from that time, he ordered two beds to
be made in his own chamber, that Munatius might lie there.  And so he continued to do, Cato
making it his jest to see that he was always there. There went with him fifteen slaves, two
freedmen, and four of his friends; these rode on horseback, but Cato always went on foot, yet
would he keep by them, and talk with each of them in turn, as they went.

When he came to the army, which consisted of several legions, the general gave him the command
of one; and as he looked upon it as a small matter, and not worthy a commander, to give evidence
of his own single valor, he resolved to make his soldiers, as far as he could, like himself,
not, however, in this, relaxing the terrors of his office, but associating reason with his
authority. He persuaded and instructed every one in particular, and bestowed rewards or punishments
according to desert; and at length his men were so well disciplined, that it was hard to say,
whether they were more peaceable, or more warlike, more valiant, or more just; they were alike
formidable to their enemies and courteous to their allies, fearful to do wrong, and forward
to gain honor. And Cato himself acquired in the fullest measure, what it had been his least
desire to seek, glory and good repute; he was highly esteemed by all men, and entirely beloved
by the soldiers. Whatever he commanded to be done, he himself took part in the performing;
in his apparel, his diet and mode of traveling, he was more like a common soldier than an officer;
but in character, high purpose, and wisdom, he far exceeded all that had the names and titles
of commanders, and he made himself, without knowing it, the object of general affection.  For
the true love of virtue is in all men produced by the love and respect they bear to him that
teaches it; and those who praise good men, yet do not love them, may respect their reputation,
but do not really admire, and will never imitate their virtue.

There dwelt at that time in Pergamus, Athenodorus, surnamed Cordylio, a man of high repute
for his knowledge of the stoic philosophy, who was now grown old, and had always steadily refused
the friendship and acquaintance of princes and great men. Cato understood this; so that imagining
he should not be able to prevail with him by sending or writing, and being by the laws allowed
two months' absence from the army, he resolved to go into Asia to see him in person, trusting
to his own good qualities not to lose his labor.  And when he had conversed with him, and succeeded
in persuading him out of his former resolutions, he returned and brought him to the camp, as
joyful and as proud of this victory as if he had done some heroic exploit, greater than any
of those of Pompey or Lucullus, who, with their armies, at that time were subduing so many
nations and kingdoms.

While Cato was yet in the service, his brother, on a journey towards Asia, fell sick at Aenus
in Thrace, letters with intelligence of which were immediately dispatched to him.  The sea
was very rough, and no convenient ship of any size to be had; so Cato, getting into a small
trading-vessel, with only two of his friends and three servants, set sail from Thessalonica,
and having very narrowly escaped drowning, he arrived at Aenus just as Caepio expired.  Upon
this occasion, he was thought to have showed himself more a fond brother than a philosopher,
not only in the excess of his grief, bewailing, and embracing the dead body, but also in the
extravagant expenses of the funeral, the vast quantity of rich perfumes and costly garments
which were burnt with the corpse, and the monument of Thasian marble, which he erected, at
the cost of eight talents, in the public place of the town of Aenus.  For there were some who
took upon them to cavil at all this, as not consistent with his usual calmness and moderation,
not discerning that though he were steadfast, firm, and inflexible to pleasure, fear, or foolish
entreaties, yet he was full of natural tenderness and brotherly affection.  Divers of the cities
and princes of the country, sent him many presents, to honor the funeral of his brother; but
he took none of their money, only the perfumes and ornaments he received, and paid for them
also.  And afterwards, when the inheritance was divided between him and Caepio's daughter,
he did not require any portion of the funeral expenses to be discharged out of it. Notwithstanding
this, it has been affirmed that he made his brother's ashes be passed through a sieve, to find
the gold that was melted down when burnt with the body.  But he who made this statement appears
to have anticipated an exemption for his pen, as much as for his sword, from all question and
criticism.

The time of Cato's service in the army being expired, he received, at his departure, not only
the prayers and praises, but the tears, and embraces of the soldiers, who spread their clothes
at his feet, and kissed his hand as he passed, an honor which the Romans at that time scarcely
paid even to a very few of their generals and commander-in-chief.  Having left the army, he
resolved, before he would return home and apply himself to state affairs, to travel in Asia,
and observe the manners, the customs, and the strength of every province.  He was also unwilling
to refuse the kindness of Deiotarus, king of Galatia, who having had great familiarity and
friendship with his father, was very desirous to receive a visit from him.  Cato's arrangements
in his journey were as follows.  Early in the morning he sent out his baker and his cook towards
the place where he designed to stay the next night; these went soberly and quietly into the
town, in which, if there happened to be no friend or acquaintance of Cato or his family, they
provided for him in an inn, and gave no disturbance to anybody; but if there were no inn, then
and in this case only, they went to the magistrates, and desiring them to help them to lodgings,
took without complaint whatever was allotted to them.  His servants thus behaving themselves
towards the magistrates, without noise and threatening, were often discredited, or neglected
by them, so that Cato many times arrived and found nothing provided for him.  And it was all
the worse when he appeared himself; still less account was taken of him.  When they saw him
sitting, without saying anything, on his baggage, they set him down at once as a person of
no consequence, who did not venture to make any demand.  Sometimes, on such occasions, he would
call them to him and tell them, "Foolish people, lay aside this inhospitality.  All your visitors
will not be Catos.  Use your courtesy, to take off the sharp edge of power.  There are men
enough who desire but a pretense, to take from you by force, what you give with such reluctance."

While he traveled in this manner, a diverting accident befell him in Syria.  As he was going
into Antioch, he saw a great multitude of people outside the gates, ranged in order on either
side the way; here the young men with long cloaks, there the children decently dressed; others
wore garlands and white garments, who were the priests and magistrates.  Cato, imagining all
this could mean nothing but a display in honor of his reception, began to be angry with his
servants who had been sent before, for suffering it to be done; then making his friends alight,
he walked along with them on foot.  As soon as he came near the gate, an elderly man, who seemed
to be master of these ceremonies, with a wand and a garland in his hand, came up to Cato, and
without saluting him, asked him, where he had left Demetrius, and how soon he thought he would
be there.  This Demetrius was Pompey's servant, and as at this time the whole world, so to
say, had its eyes fixed upon Pompey, this man also was highly honored, on account of his influence
with his master.  Upon this, Cato's friends fell into such violent laughter, that they could
not restrain themselves while they passed through the crowd; and he himself, ashamed and distressed,
uttered the words, "Unfortunate city!" and said no more.  Afterwards, however, it always made
him laugh, when he either told the story or was otherwise reminded of it.

Pompey himself shortly after made the people ashamed of their ignorance and folly in thus neglecting
him, for Cato, coming in his journey to Ephesus, went to pay his respects to him, who was the
elder man, had gained much honor, and was then general of a great army.  Yet Pompey would not
receive him sitting, but as soon as he saw him, rose up, and going to meet him, as the more
honorable person, gave him his hand, and embraced him with great show of kindness.  He said
much in commendation of his virtue, both at that time when receiving him, and also yet more,
after he had withdrawn.  So that now all men began at once to display their respect for Cato,
and discovered in the very same things for which they despised him before, an admirable mildness
of temper, and greatness of spirit.  And indeed the civility that Pompey himself showed him,
appeared to come from one that rather respected than loved him; and the general opinion was,
that while Cato was there, he paid him admiration, but was not sorry when he was gone.  For
when other young men came to see him, he usually urged and entreated them to continue with
him.  Now he did not at all invite Cato to stay, but as if his own power were lessened by the
other's presence, he very willingly allowed him to take his leave.  Yet to Cato alone, of all
those who went for Rome, he recommended his children and his wife, who was indeed connected
by relationship with Cato.

After this, all the cities through which he passed, strove and emulated each other in showing
him respect and honor.  Feasts and entertainments were made for his reception, so that he bade
his friends keep strict watch and take care of him, lest he should end by making good what
was said by Curio, who though he were his familial friend, yet disliking the austerity of his
temper, asked him one day, if when he left the army, he designed to see Asia, and Cato answering,
"Yes, by all means," "You do well," replied Curio, "you will bring back with you a better temper
and pleasanter manners;" pretty nearly the very words he used.

Deiotarus being now an old man, had sent for Cato, to recommend his children and family to
his protection; and as soon as he came, brought him presents of all sorts of things, which
he begged and entreated him to accept.  And his importunities displeased Cato so much, that
though he came but in the evening, he stayed only that night, and went away early the next
morning. After he was gone one day's journey, he found at Pessinus a yet greater quantity of
presents provided for him there, and also letters from Deiotarus, entreating him to receive
them, or at least to permit his friends to take them, who for his sake deserved some gratification,
and could not have much done for them out of Cato's own means.  Yet he would not suffer it,
though he saw some of them very willing to receive such gifts, and ready to complain of his
severity; but he answered, that corruption would never want pretense, and his friends should
share with him in whatever he should justly and honestly obtain, and so returned the presents
to Deiotarus.

When he took ship for Brundusium, his friends would have persuaded him to put his brother's
ashes into another vessel; but he said, he would sooner part with his life than leave them,
and so set sail.  And as it chanced, he, we are told, had a very dangerous passage, though
others at the same time went over safely enough.

After he was returned to Rome, he spent his time for the most part either at home, in conversation
with Athenodorus, or at the forum, in the service of his friends.  Though it was now the time
that he should become quaestor, he would not stand for the place till he had studied the laws
relating to it, and by inquiry from persons of experience, had attained a distinct understanding
of the duty and authority belonging to it.  With this knowledge, as soon as he came into the
office, he made a great reformation among the clerks and under-officers of the treasury, people
who had long practice and familiarity in all the public records and the laws, and, when new
magistrates came in year by year, so ignorant and unskillful as to be in absolute need of others
to teach them what to do, did not submit and give way, but kept the power in their own hands,
and were in effect the treasurers themselves.  Till Cato, applying himself roundly to the work,
showed that he possessed not only the title and honor of a quaestor, but the knowledge and
understanding and full authority of his office.  So that he used the clerks and under-officers
like servants, as they were, exposing their corrupt practices, and instructing their ignorance.
Being bold impudent fellows, they flattered the other quaestors, his colleagues, and by their
means endeavored to maintain an opposition against him.  But he convicted the chiefest of them
of a breach of trust in the charge of an inheritance, and turned him out of his place.  A second
he brought to trial for dishonesty, who was defended by Lutatius Catulus, at that time censor,
a man very considerable for his office, but yet more for his character, as he was eminent above
all the Romans of that age for his reputed wisdom and integrity. He was also intimate with
Cato, and much commended his way of living.  So perceiving he could not bring off his client,
if he stood a fair trial, he openly began to beg him off.  Cato objected to his doing this.
And when he continued still to be importunate, "It would be shameful, Catulus," he said, "that
the censor, the judge of all our lives, should incur the dishonor of removal by our officers."
At this expression, Catalus looked as if he would have made some answer; but he said nothing,
and either through anger or shame went away silent, and out of countenance.  Nevertheless,
the man was not found guilty, for the voices that acquitted him were but one in number less
than those that condemned him, and Marcus Lollius, one of Cato's colleagues, who was absent
by reason of sickness, was sent for by Catalus, and entreated to come and save the man.  So
Lollius was brought into court in a chair, and gave his voice also for acquitting him.  Yet
Cato never after made use of that clerk, and never paid him his salary, nor would he make any
account of the vote given by Lollius.  Having thus humbled the clerks, and brought them to
be at command, he made use of the books and registers as he thought fit, and in a little while
gained the treasury a higher name than the Senate-house itself; and all men said, Cato had
made the office of a quaestor equal to the dignity of a consul. When he found many indebted
to the state upon old accounts, and the state also in debt to many private persons, he took
care that the public might no longer either do or suffer wrong; he strictly and punctually
exacted what was due to the treasury, and as freely and speedily paid all those to whom it
was indebted.  So that the people were filled with sentiments of awe and respect, on seeing
those made to pay, who thought to have escaped with their plunder, and others receiving all
their due, who despaired of getting anything.  And whereas usually those who brought false
bills and pretended orders of the senate, could through favor get them accepted, Cato would
never be so imposed upon, and in the case of one particular order, question arising, whether
it had passed the senate, he would not believe a great many witnesses that attested it, nor
would admit of it, till the consuls came and affirmed it upon oath.

There were at that time a great many whom Sylla had made use of as his agents in the proscription,
and to whom he had for their service in putting men to death, given twelve thousand drachmas
apiece.  These men everybody hated as wicked and polluted wretches, but nobody durst be revenged
upon them.  Cato called everyone to account, as wrongfully possessed of the public money, and
exacted it of them, and at the same time sharply reproved them for their unlawful and impious
actions.  After these proceedings, they were presently accused of murder, and being already
in a manner prejudged as guilty, they were easily found so, and accordingly suffered; at which
the whole people rejoiced, and thought themselves now to see the old tyranny finally abolished,
and Sylla himself, so to say, brought to punishment.

Cato's assiduity also, and indefatigable diligence, won very much upon the people.  He always
came first of any of his colleagues to the treasury, and went away the last.  He never missed
any assembly of the people, or sitting of the senate; being always anxious and on the watch
for those who lightly, or as a matter of interest, passed votes in favor of this or that person,
for remitting debts or granting away customs that were owing to the state.  And at length,
having kept the exchequer pure and clear from base informers, and yet having filled it with
treasure, he made it appear the state might be rich, without oppressing the people.  At first
he excited feelings of dislike and irritation in some of his colleagues, but after a while
they were well contented with him, since he was perfectly willing that they should cast all
the odium on him, when they declined to gratify their friends with the public money, or to
give dishonest judgments in passing their accounts; and when hard pressed by suitors, they
could readily answer it was impossible to do anything, unless Cato would consent.  On the last
day of his office, he was honorably attended to his house by almost all the people; but on
the way he was informed that several powerful friends were in the treasury with Marcellus,
using all their interest with him to pass a certain debt to the public revenue, as if it had
been a gift.  Marcellus had been one of Cato's friends from his childhood, and so long as Cato
was with him, was one of the best of his colleagues in this office, but when alone, was unable
to resist the importunity of suitors, and prone to do anybody a kindness.  So Cato immediately
turned back, and finding that Marcellus had yielded to pass the thing, he took the book, and
while Marcellus silently stood by and looked on, struck it out. This done, he brought Marcellus
out of the treasury, and took him home with him; who for all this, neither then, nor ever after,
complained of him, but always continued his friendship and familiarity with him.

Cato after he had laid down his office, yet did not cease to keep a watch upon the treasury.
He had his servants who continually wrote out the details of the expenditure, and he himself
kept always by him certain books, which contained the accounts of the revenue from Sylla's
time to his own quaestorship, which he had bought for five talents.

He was always first at the senate, and went out last; and often, while the others were slowly
collecting, he would sit and read by himself, holding his gown before his book.  He was never
once out of town when the senate was to meet.  And when afterwards Pompey and his party, finding
that he could never be either persuaded or compelled to favor their unjust designs, endeavored
to keep him from the senate, by engaging him in business for his friends, to plead their causes,
or arbitrate in their differences, or the like, he quickly discovered the trick, and to defeat
it, fairly told all his acquaintance that he would never meddle in any private business when
the senate was assembled.  Since it was not in the hope of gaining honor or riches, nor out
of mere impulse, or by chance that he engaged himself in politics, but he undertook the service
of the state, as the proper business of an honest man, and therefore he thought himself obliged
to be as constant to his public duty, as the bee to the honeycomb.  To this end, he took care
to have his friends and correspondents everywhere, to send him reports of the edicts, decrees,
judgments, and all the important proceedings that passed in any of the provinces.  Once when
Clodius, the seditious orator, to promote his violent and revolutionary projects, traduced
to the people some of the priests and priestesses, (among whom Fabia, sister to Cicero's wife,
Terentia, ran great danger,) Cato, having boldly interfered, and having made Clodius appear
so infamous that he was forced to leave the town, was addressed, when it was over, by Cicero,
who came to thank him for what he had done.  "You must thank the commonwealth," said he, for
whose sake alone he professed to do everything.  Thus he gained a great and wonderful reputation;
so that an advocate in a cause, where there was only one witness against him, told the judges
they ought not to rely upon a single witness, though it were Cato himself.  And it was a sort
of proverb with many people, if any very unlikely and incredible thing were asserted, to say,
they would not believe it, though Cato himself should affirm it.  One day a debauched and sumptuous
liver talking in the senate about frugality and temperance, Amnaeus standing up, cried, "Who
can endure this, Sir, to have you feast like Crassus, build like Lucullus and talk like Cato."
So likewise those who were vicious and dissolute in their manners, yet affected to be grave
and severe in their language, were in derision called Catos.

At first, when his friends would have persuaded him to stand to be tribune of the people, he
thought it undesirable; for that the power of so great an office ought to be reserved, as the
strongest medicines, for occasions of the last necessity.  But afterwards in a vacation time,
as he was going, accompanied with his books and philosophers, to Lucania, where he had lands
with a pleasant residence, they met by the way a great many horses, carriages, and attendants,
of whom they understood, that Metellus Nepos was going to Rome, to stand to be tribune of the
people. Hereupon Cato stopped, and after a little pause, gave orders to return back immediately;
at which the company seeming to wonder, "Don't you know," said he, "how dangerous of itself
the madness of Metellus is? and now that he comes armed with the support of Pompey, he will
fall like lightning on the state, and bring it to utter disorder; therefore this is no time
for idleness and diversion, but we must go and prevent this man in his designs, or bravely
die in defense of our liberty."  Nevertheless, by the persuasion of his friends, he went first
to his country-house, where he stayed but a very little time, and then returned to town.

He arrived in the evening, and went straight the next morning to the forum, where he began
to solicit for the tribuneship, in opposition to Metellus.  The power of this office consists
rather in controlling, than performing any business; for though all the rest except any one
tribune should be agreed, yet his denial or intercession could put a stop to the whole matter.
Cato, at first, had not many that appeared for him; but as soon as his design was known, all
the good and distinguished persons of the city quickly came forward to encourage and support
him, looking upon him, not as one that desired a favor of them, but one that proposed to do
a great favor to his country and all honest men; who had many times refused the same office,
when he might have had it without trouble, but now sought it with danger, that he might defend
their liberty and their government.  It is reported that so great a number flocked about him,
that he was like to be stifled amidst the press, and could scarce get through the crowd. He
was declared tribune, with several others, among whom was Metellus.

When Cato was chosen into this office, observing that the election of consuls was become a
matter of purchase, he sharply rebuked the people for this corruption, and in the conclusion
of his speech protested, he would bring to trial whomever he should find giving money, making
an exception only in the case of Silanus, on account of their near connection, he having married
Servilia, Cato's sister.  He therefore did not prosecute him, but accused Lucius Murena, who
had been chosen consul by corrupt means with Silanus.  There was a law that the party accused
might appoint a person to keep watch upon his accuser, that he might know fairly what means
he took in preparing the accusation.  He that was set upon Cato by Murena, at first followed
and observed him strictly, yet never found him dealing any way unfairly or insidiously, but
always generously and candidly going on in the just and open methods of proceeding.  And he
so admired Cato's great spirit, and so entirely trusted to his integrity, that meeting him
in the forum, or going to his house, he would ask him, if he designed to do anything that day
in order to the accusation, and if Cato said no, he went away, relying on his word.  When the
cause was pleaded, Cicero, who was then consul and defended Murena, took occasion to be extremely
witty and jocose, in reference to Cato, upon the stoic philosophers, and their paradoxes, as
they call them, and so excited great laughter among the judges; upon which Cato, smiling, said
to the standers by, "What a pleasant consul we have, my friends."  Murena was acquitted, and
afterwards showed himself a man of no ill feeling or want of sense; for when he was consul,
he always took Cato's advice in the most weighty affairs, and during all the time of his office,
paid him much honor and respect.  Of which not only Murena's prudence, but also Cato's own
behavior, was the cause; for though he were terrible and severe as to matters of justice, in
the senate, and at the bar, yet after the thing was over, his manner to all men was perfectly
friendly and humane.

Before he entered on the office of tribune, he assisted Cicero, at that time consul, in many
contests that concerned his office, but most especially in his great and noble acts at the
time of Catiline's conspiracy, which owed their last successful issue to Cato.  Catiline had
plotted a dreadful and entire subversion of the Roman state by sedition and open war, but being
convicted by Cicero, was forced to fly the city.  Yet Lentulus and Cethegus remained with several
others, to carry on the same plot; and blaming Catiline, as one that wanted courage, and had
been timid and petty in his designs, they themselves resolved to set the whole town on fire,
and utterly to overthrow the empire, rousing whole nations to revolt and exciting foreign wars.
But the design was discovered by Cicero, (as we have written in his life,) and the matter brought
before the senate.  Silanus, who spoke first, delivered his opinion, that the conspirators
ought to suffer the last of punishments, and was therein followed by all who spoke after him;
till it came to Caesar, who being an excellent speaker, and looking upon all changes and commotions
in the state as materials useful for his own purposes, desired rather to increase than extinguish
them; and standing up, he made a very merciful and persuasive speech, that they ought not to
suffer death without fair trial according to law, and moved that they might be kept in prison.
Thus was the house almost wholly turned by Caesar, apprehending also the anger of the people;
insomuch that even Silanus retracted, and said he did not mean to propose death, but imprisonment,
for that was the utmost a Roman could suffer.  Upon this they were all inclined to the milder
and more merciful opinion, when Cato standing up, began at once with great passion and vehemence
to reproach Silanus for his change of opinion, and to attack Caesar, who would, he said, ruin
the commonwealth by soft words and popular speeches, and was endeavoring to frighten the senate,
when he himself ought to fear, and be thankful, if he escaped unpunished or unsuspected, who
thus openly and boldly dared to protect the enemies of the state, and while finding no compassion
for his own native country, brought, with all its glories, so near to utter ruin, could yet
be full of pity for those men, who had better never have been born, and whose death must deliver
the commonwealth from bloodshed and destruction.  This only of all Cato's speeches, it is said,
was preserved; for Cicero, the consul, had disposed, in various parts of the senate-house,
several of the most expert and rapid writers, whom he had taught to make figures comprising
numerous words in a few short strokes; as up to that time they had not used those we call short-hand
writers, who then, as it is said, established the first example of the art. Thus Cato carried
it, and so turned the house again, that it was decreed the conspirators should be put to death.

Not to omit any small matters that may serve to show Cato's temper, and add something to the
portraiture of his mind, it is reported, that while Caesar and he were in the very heat, and
the whole senate regarding them two, a little note was brought in to Caesar, which Cato declared
to be suspicious, and urging that some seditious act was going on, bade the letter be read.
Upon which Caesar handed the paper to Cato; who discovering it to be a love-letter from his
sister Servilia to Caesar, by whom she had been corrupted, threw it to him again, saying, "Take
it, drunkard," and so went on with his discourse.  And, indeed, it seems Cato had but ill-fortune
in women; for this lady was ill spoken of, for her familiarity with Caesar, and the other Servilia,
Cato's sister also, was yet more ill-conducted; for being married to Lucullus, one of the greatest
men in Rome, and having brought him a son, she was afterwards divorced for incontinency.  But
what was worst of all, Cato's own wife Atilia was not free from the same fault; and after she
had borne him two children, he was forced to put her away for her misconduct. After that he
married Marcia, the daughter of Philippus, a woman of good reputation, who yet has occasioned
much discourse; and the life of Cato, like a dramatic piece, has this one scene or passage
full of perplexity and doubtful meaning.

It is thus related by Thrasea, who refers to the authority of Munatius, Cato's friend and constant
companion.  Among many that loved and admired Cato, some were more remarkable and conspicuous
than others.  Of these was Quintus Hortensius, a man of high repute and approved virtue, who
desired not only to live in friendship and familiarity with Cato, but also to unite his whole
house and family with him by some sort or other of alliance in marriage.  Therefore he set
himself to persuade Cato, that his daughter Porcia, who was already married to Bibulus, and
had borne him two children, might nevertheless be given to him, as a fair plot of land, to
bear fruit also for him.  "For," said he, "though this in the opinion of men may seem strange,
yet in nature it is honest, and profitable for the public, that a woman in the prime of her
youth should not lie useless, and lose the fruit of her womb, nor, on the other side, should
burden and impoverish one man, by bringing him too many children.  Also by this communication
of families among worthy men, virtue would increase, and be diffused through their posterity;
and the commonwealth would be united and cemented by their alliances." Yet if Bibulus would
not part with his wife altogether, he would restore her as soon as she had brought him a child,
whereby he might be united to both their families.  Cato answered, that he loved Hortensius
very well, and much approved of uniting their houses, but he thought it strange to speak of
marrying his daughter, when she was already given to another.  Then Hortensius, turning the
discourse, did not hesitate to speak openly and ask for Cato's own wife, for she was young
and fruitful, and he had already children enough.  Neither can it be thought that Hortensius
did this, as imagining Cato did not care for Marcia; for, it is said, she was then with child.
Cato, perceiving his earnest desire, did not deny his request, but said that Philippus, the
father of Marcia, ought also to be consulted. Philippus, therefore, being sent for, came; and
finding they were well agreed, gave his daughter Marcia to Hortensius in the presence of Cato,
who himself also assisted at the marriage. This was done at a later time, but since I was speaking
of women, I thought it well to mention it now.

Lentulus and the rest of the conspirators were put to death, but Caesar, finding so much insinuated
and charged against him in the senate, betook himself to the people, and proceeded to stir
up the most corrupt and dissolute elements of the state to form a party in his support.  Cato,
apprehensive of what might ensue, persuaded the senate to win over the poor and unprovided-for
multitude, by a distribution of corn, the annual charge of which amounted to twelve hundred
and fifty talents.  This act of humanity and kindness unquestionably dissipated the present
danger.  But Metellus, coming into his office of tribune, began to hold tumultuous assemblies,
and had prepared a decree, that Pompey the Great should presently be called into Italy, with
all his forces, to preserve the city from the danger of Catiline's conspiracy.  This was the
fair pretense; but the true design was, to deliver all into the hands of Pompey, and give him
an absolute power.  Upon this the senate was assembled, and Cato did not fall sharply upon
Metellus, as he often did, but urged his advice in the most reasonable and moderate tone. 
At last he descended even to entreaty, and extolled the house of Metellus, as having always
taken part with the nobility.  At this Metellus grew the more insolent, and despising Cato,
as if he yielded and were afraid, let himself proceed to the most audacious menaces, openly
threatening to do whatever he pleased in spite of the senate. Upon this Cato changed his countenance,
his voice, and his language; and after many sharp expressions, boldly concluded, that while
he lived, Pompey should never come armed into the city.  The senate thought them both extravagant,
and not well in their safe senses; for the design of Metellus seemed to be mere rage and frenzy,
out of excess of mischief bringing all things to ruin and confusion, and Cato's virtue looked
like a kind of ecstasy of contention in the cause of what was good and just.

But when the day came for the people to give their voices for the passing this decree, and
Metellus beforehand occupied the forum with armed men, strangers, gladiators, and slaves, those
that in hopes of change followed Pompey, were known to be no small part of the people, and
besides, they had great assistance from Caesar, who was then praetor; and though the best and
chiefest men of the city were no less offended at these proceedings than Cato, they seemed
rather likely to suffer with him, than able to assist him.  In the meantime Cato's whole family
were in extreme fear and apprehension for him; some of his friends neither ate nor slept all
the night, passing the whole time in debating and perplexity; his wife and sisters also bewailed
and lamented him. But he himself, void of all fear, and full of assurance, comforted and encouraged
them by his own words and conversation with them.  After supper he went to rest at his usual
hour, and was the next day waked out of a profound sleep by Minucius Thermus, one of his colleagues.
So soon as he was up, they two went together into the forum, accompanied by very few, but met
by a great many, who bade them have a care of themselves.  Cato, therefore, when he saw the
temple of Castor and Pollux encompassed with armed men, and the steps guarded by gladiators,
and at the top Metellus and Caesar seated together, turning to his friends, "Behold," said
he, "this audacious coward, who has levied a regiment of soldiers against one unarmed naked
man;" and so he went on with Thermus.  Those who kept the passages, gave way to these two only,
and would not let anybody else pass. Yet Cato taking Munatius by the hand, with much difficulty
pulled him through along with him.  Then going directly to Metellus and Caesar, he sat himself
down between them, to prevent their talking to one another, at which they were both amazed
and confounded.  And those of the honest party, observing the countenance, and admiring the
high spirit and boldness of Cato, went nearer, and cried out to him to have courage, exhorting
also one another to stand together, and not betray their liberty, nor the defender of it.

Then the clerk took out the bill, but Cato forbade him to read it, whereupon Metellus took
it, and would have read it himself, but Cato snatched away the book.  Yet Metellus having the
decree by heart, began to recite it without book; but Thermus put his hand to his mouth, and
stopped his speech.  Metellus seeing them fully bent to withstand him, and the people cowed,
and inclining to the better side, sent to his house for armed men.  And on their rushing in
with great noise and terror, all the rest dispersed and ran away, except Cato, who alone stood
still, while the other party threw sticks and stones at him from above, until Murena, whom
he had formerly accused, came up to protect him, and holding his gown before him, cried out
to them to leave off throwing; and, in fine, persuading and pulling him along, he forced him
into the temple of Castor and Pollux.  Metellus now seeing the place clear, and all the adverse
party fled out of the forum, thought he might easily carry his point; so he commanded the soldiers
to retire, and recommencing in an orderly manner, began to proceed to passing the decree. 
But the other side having recovered themselves, returned very boldly, and with loud shouting,
insomuch that Metellus's adherents were seized with a panic, supposing them to be coming with
a reinforcement of armed men, and fled every one out of the place.  They being thus dispersed,
Cato came in again, and confirmed the courage, and commended the resolution of the people;
so that now the majority were, by all means, for deposing Metellus from his office.  The senate
also being assembled, gave orders once more for supporting Cato, and resisting the motion,
as of a nature to excite sedition and perhaps civil war in the city.

But Metellus continued still very bold and resolute; and seeing his party stood greatly in
fear of Cato, whom they looked upon as invincible, he hurried out of the senate into the forum,
and assembled the people, to whom he made a bitter and invidious speech against Cato, crying
out, he was forced to fly from his tyranny, and this conspiracy against Pompey; that the city
would soon repent their having dishonored so great a man.  And from hence he started to go
to Asia, with the intention, as would be supposed, of laying before Pompey all the injuries
that were done him.  Cato was highly extolled for having delivered the state from this dangerous
tribuneship, and having in some measure defeated, in the person of Metellus, the power of Pompey;
but he was yet more commended when, upon the senate proceeding to disgrace Metellus and depose
him from his office, he altogether opposed and at length diverted the design.  The common people
admired his moderation and humanity, in not trampling wantonly on an enemy whom he had overthrown,
and wiser men acknowledged his prudence and policy, in not exasperating Pompey.

Lucullus soon after returned from the war in Asia, the finishing of which, and thereby the
glory of the whole, was thus, in all appearance, taken out of his hands by Pompey.  And he
was also not far from losing his triumph, for Caius Memmius traduced him to the people, and
threatened to accuse him; rather, however, out of love to Pompey, than for any particular enmity
to him.  But Cato, being allied to Lucullus, who had married his sister Servilia, and also
thinking it a great injustice, opposed Memmius, thereby exposing himself to much slander and
misrepresentation, insomuch that they would have turned him out of his office, pretending that
he used his power tyrannically. Yet at length Cato so far prevailed against Memmius, that he
was forced to let fall the accusations, and abandon the contest.  And Lucullus having thus
obtained his triumph, yet more sedulously cultivated Cato's friendship, which he looked upon
as a great guard and defense for him against Pompey's power.

And now Pompey also returning with glory from the war, and confiding in the good-will of the
people, shown in their splendid reception of him, thought he should be denied nothing, and
sent therefore to the senate to put off the assembly for the election of consuls, till he could
be present to assist Piso, who stood for that office.  To this most of the senators were disposed
to yield; Cato, only, not so much thinking that this delay would be of great importance, but,
desiring to cut down at once Pompey's high expectations and designs, withstood his request,
and so overruled the senate, that it was carried against him.  And this not a little disturbed
Pompey, who found he should very often fail in his projects, unless he could bring over Cato
to his interest.  He sent, therefore, for Munatius, his friend; and Cato having two nieces
that were marriageable, he offered to marry the eldest himself, and take the youngest for his
son.  Some say they were not his nieces, but his daughters.  Munatius proposed the matter to
Cato, in presence of his wife and sisters; the women were full of joy at the prospect of an
alliance with so great and important a person.  But Cato, without delay or balancing, forming
his decision at once, answered, "Go, Munatius, go and tell Pompey, that Cato is not assailable
on the side of the women's chamber; I am grateful indeed for the intended kindness, and so
long as his actions are upright, I promise him a friendship more sure than any marriage alliance,
but I will not give hostages to Pompey's glory, against my country's safety." This answer was
very much against the wishes of the women, and to all his friends it seemed somewhat harsh
and haughty.  But afterwards, when Pompey, endeavoring to get the consulship for one of his
friends, gave pay to the people for their votes, and the bribery was notorious, the money being
counted out in Pompey's own gardens, Cato then said to the women, they must necessarily have
been concerned in the contamination of these misdeeds of Pompey, if they had been allied to
his family; and they acknowledged that he did best in refusing it.  Yet if we may judge by
the event, Cato was much to blame in rejecting that alliance, which thereby fell to Caesar.
And then that match was made, which, uniting his and Pompey's power, had well-nigh ruined the
Roman empire, and did destroy the commonwealth.  Nothing of which perhaps had come to pass,
but that Cato was too apprehensive of Pompey's least faults, and did not consider how he forced
him into conferring on another man the opportunity of committing the greatest.

These things, however, were yet to come.  Lucullus, meantime, and Pompey, had a great dispute
concerning their orders and arrangements in Pontus, each endeavoring that his own ordinances
might stand.  Cato took part with Lucullus, who was manifestly suffering wrong; and Pompey,
finding himself the weaker in the senate, had recourse to the people, and to gain votes, he
proposed a law for dividing the lands among the soldiers.  Cato opposing him in this also,
made the bill be rejected.  Upon this he joined himself with Clodius, at that time the most
violent of all the demagogues; and entered also into friendship with Caesar, upon an occasion
of which also Cato was the cause.  For Caesar returning from his government in Spain, at the
same time sued to be chosen consul, and yet desired not to lose his triumph.  Now the law requiring
that those who stood for any office should be present, and yet that whoever expected a triumph
should continue without the walls, Caesar requested the senate, that his friends might be permitted
to canvass for him in his absence.  Many of the senators were willing to consent to it, but
Cato opposed it, and perceiving them inclined to favor Caesar, spent the whole day in speaking,
and so prevented the senate from coming to any conclusion.  Caesar, therefore, resolving to
let fall his pretensions to the triumph, came into the town, and immediately made a friendship
with Pompey, and stood for the consulship.  And so soon as he was declared consul elect, he
married his daughter Julia to Pompey.  And having thus combined themselves together against
the commonwealth, the one proposed laws for dividing the lands among the poor people, and the
other was present to support the proposals Lucullus, Cicero, and their friends, joined with
Bibulus, the other consul, to hinder their passing, and, foremost of them all, Cato, who already
looked upon the friendship and alliance of Pompey and Caesar as very dangerous, and declared
he did not so much dislike the advantage the people should get by this division of the lands,
as he feared the reward these men would gain, by thus courting and cozening the people.  And
in this he gained over the senate to his opinion, as likewise many who were not senators, who
were offended at Caesar's ill conduct, that he, in the office of consul, should thus basely
and dishonorably flatter the people; practicing, to win their favor, the same means that were
wont to be used only by the most rash and rebellious tribunes.  Caesar, therefore, and his
party, fearing they should not carry it by fair dealing, fell to open force.  First a basket
of dung was thrown upon Bibulus as he was going to the forum; then they set upon his lictors
and broke their rods; at length several darts were thrown, and many men wounded; so that all
that were against those laws, fled out of the forum, the rest with what haste they could, and
Cato, last of all, walking out slowly, often turning back and calling down vengeance upon them.

Thus the other party not only carried their point of dividing the lands, but also ordained,
that all the senate should swear to confirm this law, and to defend it against whoever should
attempt to alter it, indicting great penalties on those that should refuse the oath.  All the
senators seeing the necessity they were in, took the oath, remembering the example of Metellus
in old time, who refusing to swear upon the like occasion, was forced to leave Italy.  As for
Cato, his wife and children with tears besought him, his friends and familiars persuaded and
entreated him, to yield and take the oath; but he that principally prevailed with him was Cicero,
the orator, who urged upon him that it was perhaps not even right in itself, that a private
man should oppose what the public had decreed; that the thing being already past altering,
it were folly and madness to throw himself into danger, without the chance of doing his country
any good; it would be the greatest of all evils, to embrace, as it were, the opportunity to
abandon the commonwealth, for whose sake he did everything, and to let it fall into the hands
of those who designed nothing but its ruin, as if he were glad to be saved from the trouble
of defending it.  "For," said he, "though Cato have no need of Rome, yet Rome has need of Cato,
and so likewise have all his friends."  Of whom Cicero professed he himself was the chief,
being; at that time aimed at by Clodius, who openly threatened to fall upon him, as soon as
ever he should get to be tribune.  Thus Cato, they say, moved by the entreaties and the arguments
of his friends, went unwillingly to take the oath, which he did the last of all, except only
Favonius, one of his intimate acquaintance.

Caesar, exalted with this success, proposed another law, for dividing almost all the country
of Campania among the poor and needy citizens.  Nobody durst speak against it but Cato, whom
Caesar therefore pulled from the rostra, and dragged to prison: yet Cato did not even thus
remit his freedom of speech, but as he went along, continued to speak against the law, and
advised the people to put down all legislators who proposed the like. The senate and the best
of the citizens followed him with sad and dejected looks, showing their grief and indignation
by their silence, so that Caesar could not be ignorant how much they were offended; but for
contention's sake, he still persisted, expecting Cato should either supplicate him, or make
an appeal. But when he saw that he did not so much as think of doing either, ashamed of what
he was doing and of what people thought of it, he himself privately bade one of the tribunes
interpose and procure his release.  However, having won the multitude by these laws and gratifications,
they decreed that Caesar should have the government of Illyricum, and all Gaul, with an army
of four legions, for the space of five years, though Cato still cried out they were, by their
own vote, placing a tyrant in their citadel. Publius Clodius, who illegally of a patrician
became a plebeian, was declared tribune of the people, as he had promised to do all things
according to their pleasure, on condition he might banish Cicero.  And for consuls, they set
up Calpurnius Piso, the father of Caesar's wife, and Aulus Gabinius, one of Pompey's creatures,
as they tell us, who best knew his life and manners.

Yet when they had thus firmly established all things, having mastered one part of the city
by favor, and the other by fear, they themselves were still afraid of Cato, and remembered
with vexation what pains and trouble their success over him had cost them, and indeed what
shame and disgrace, when at last they were driven to use violence to him.  This made Clodius
despair of driving Cicero out of Italy while Cato stayed at home. Therefore, having first laid
his design, as soon as he came into his office, he sent for Cato, and told him, that he looked
upon him as the most incorrupt of all the Romans, and was ready to show he did so.  "For whereas,"
said he, "many have applied to be sent to Cyprus on the commission in the case of Ptolemy,
and have solicited to have the appointment, I think you alone are deserving of it, and I desire
to give you the favor of the appointment."  Cato at once cried out, it was a mere design upon
him, and no favor, but an injury.  Then Clodius proudly and fiercely answered, "If you will
not take it as a kindness, you shall go, though never so unwillingly;" and immediately going
into the assembly of the people, he made them pass a decree, that Cato should be sent to Cyprus.
But they ordered him neither ship, nor soldier, nor any attendant, except two secretaries;
one of whom was a thief and a rascal, and the other a retainer to Clodius.  Besides, as if
Cyprus and Ptolemy were not work sufficient, he was ordered also to restore the refugees of
Byzantium.  For Clodius was resolved to keep him far enough off, whilst himself continued tribune.

Cato being in this necessity of going away, advised Cicero, who was next to be set upon, to
make no resistance, lest he should throw the state into civil war and confusion, but to give
way to the times, and thus become once more the preserver of his country.  He himself sent
forward Canidius, one of his friends, to Cyprus, to persuade Ptolemy to yield, without being
forced; which if he did, he should want neither riches nor honor, for the Romans would give
him the priesthood of the goddess at Paphos. He himself stayed at Rhodes, making some preparations,
and expecting an answer from Cyprus.  In the meantime, Ptolemy, king of Egypt, who had left
Alexandria, upon some quarrel between him and his subjects, and was sailing for Rome, in hopes
that Pompey and Caesar would send troops to restore him, in his way thither desired to see
Cato, to whom he sent, supposing he would come to him.  Cato had taken purging medicine at
the time when the messenger came, and made answer, that Ptolemy had better come to him, if
he thought fit.  And when he came, he neither went forward to meet him, nor so much as rose
up to him, but saluting him as an ordinary person, bade him sit down.  This at once threw Ptolemy
into some confusion, who was surprised to see such stern and haughty manners in one who made
so plain and unpretending an appearance; but afterwards, when he began to talk about his affairs,
he was no less astonished at the wisdom and freedom of his discourse.  For Cato blamed his
conduct, and pointed out to him what honor and happiness he was abandoning, and what humiliations
and troubles he would run himself into; what bribery he must resort to and what cupidity he
would have to satisfy, when he came to the leading men at Rome, whom all Egypt turned into
silver would scarcely content.  He therefore advised him to return home, and be reconciled
to his subjects, offering to go along with him, and assist him in composing the differences.
And by this language Ptolemy being brought to himself, as it might be out of a fit of madness
or delirium and discerning the truth and wisdom of what Cato said, resolved to follow his advice;
but he was again over-persuaded by his friends to the contrary, and so, according to his first
design, went to Rome.  When he came there, and was forced to wait at the gate of one of the
magistrates, he began to lament his folly, in having rejected, rather, as it seemed to him,
the oracle of a god, than the advice merely of a good and wise man.

In the meantime, the other Ptolemy, in Cyprus, very luckily for Cato, poisoned himself.  It
was reported he had left great riches; therefore Cato designing to go first to Byzantium, sent
his nephew Brutus to Cyprus, as he would not wholly trust Canidius.  Then, having reconciled
the refugees and the people of Byzantium, he left the city in peace and quietness; and so sailed
to Cyprus, where he found a royal treasure of plate, tables, precious stones and purple, all
which was to be turned into ready money.  And being determined to do everything with the greatest
exactness, and to raise the price of everything to the utmost, to this end he was always present
at selling the things, and went carefully into all the accounts.  Nor would he trust to the
usual customs of the market, but looked doubtfully upon all alike, the officers, criers, purchasers,
and even his own friends; and so in fine he himself talked with the buyers, and urged them
to bid high, and conducted in this manner the greatest part of the sales.

This mistrustfulness offended others of his friends, and, in particular, Munatius, the most
intimate of them all, became almost irreconcilable.  And this afforded Caesar the subject of
his severest censures in the book he wrote against Cato.  Yet Munatius himself relates, that
the quarrel was not so much occasioned by Cato's mistrust, as by his neglect of him, and by
his own jealousy of Canidius.  For Munatius also wrote a book concerning Cato, which is the
chief authority followed by Thrasea.  Munatius says, that coming to Cyprus after the other,
and having a very poor lodging provided for him, he went to Cato's house, but was not admitted,
because he was engaged in private with Canidius; of which he afterwards complained in very
gentle terms to Cato, but received a very harsh answer, that too much love, according to Theophrastus,
often causes hatred; "and you," he said, "because you bear me much love, think you receive
too little honor, and presently grow angry.  I employ Canidius on account of his industry and
his fidelity; he has been with me from the first, and I have found him to be trusted."  These
things were said in private between them two; but Cato afterwards told Canidius what had passed;
on being informed of which, Munatius would no more go to sup with him, and when he was invited
to give his counsel, refused to come.  Then Cato threatened to seize his goods, as was the
custom in the case of those who were disobedient; but Munatius not regarding his threats, returned
to Rome, and continued a long time thus discontented.  But afterwards, when Cato was come back
also, Marcia, who as yet lived with him, contrived to have them both invited to sup together
at the house of one Barca; Cato came in last of all, when the rest were laid down, and asked,
where he should be.  Barca answered him, where he pleased; then looking about, he said, he
would be near Munatius, and went and placed himself next to him; yet he showed him no other
mark of kindness, all the time they were at table together.  But another time, at the entreaty
of Marcia, Cato wrote to Munatius, that he desired to speak with him.  Munatius went to his
house in the morning, and was kept by Marcia till all the company was gone; then Cato came,
threw both his arms about him, and embraced him very kindly, and they were reconciled.  I have
the more fully related this passage, for that I think the manners and tempers of men are more
clearly discovered by things of this nature, than by great and conspicuous actions.

Cato got together little less than seven thousand talents of silver; but apprehensive of what
might happen in so long a voyage by sea, he provided a great many coffers, that held two talents
and five hundred drachmas apiece; to each of these he fastened a long rope, and to the other
end of the rope a piece of cork, so that if the ship should miscarry, it might be discovered
thereabout the chests lay under water.  Thus all the money, except a very little, was safely
transported.  But he had made two books, in which all the accounts of his commission were carefully
written out, and neither of these was preserved.  For his freedman Philargyrus, who had the
charge of one of them, setting sail from Cenchreae was lost, together with the ship and all
her freight.  And the other Cato himself kept safe, till he came to Corcyra, but there he set
up his tent in the market-place, and the sailors being very cold in the night, made a great
many fires, some of which caught the tents, so that they were burnt, and the book lost.  And
though he had brought with him several of Ptolemy's stewards, who could testify to his integrity,
and stop the mouths of enemies and false accusers, yet the loss annoyed him, and he was vexed
with himself about the matter, as he had designed them not so much for a proof of his own fidelity,
as for a pattern of exactness to others.

The news did not fail to reach Rome, that he was coming up the river.  All the magistrates,
the priests, and the whole senate, with great part of the people, went out to meet him; both
the banks of the Tiber were covered with people; so that his entrance was in solemnity and
honor not inferior to a triumph.  But it was thought somewhat strange, and looked like willfulness
and pride, that when the consuls and praetors appeared, he did not disembark, nor stay to salute
them, but rowed up the stream in a royal galley of six banks of oars, and stopped not till
he brought his vessels to the dock.  However, when the money was carried through the streets,
the people much wondered at the vast quantity of it, and the senate being assembled, decreed
him in honorable terms an extraordinary praetorship, and also the privilege of appearing at
the public spectacles in a robe faced with purple.  Cato declined all these honors, but declaring
what diligence and fidelity he had found in Nicias, the steward of Ptolemy, he requested the
senate to give him his freedom.

Philippus, the father of Marcia, was that year consul, and the authority and power of the office
rested in a manner in Cato; for the other consul paid him no less regard for his virtue's sake,
than Philippus did on account of the connection between them. And Cicero now being returned
from his banishment, into which he was driven by Clodius, and having again obtained great credit
among the people, went, in the absence of Clodius, and by force took away the records of his
tribuneship, which had been laid up in the capitol.  Hereupon the senate was assembled, and
Clodius complained of Cicero, who answered, that Clodius was never legally tribune, and therefore
whatever he had done, was void, and of no authority.  But Cato interrupted him while he spoke,
and at last standing up said, that indeed he in no way justified or approved of Clodius's proceedings;
but if they questioned the validity of what had been done in his tribuneship, they might also
question what himself had done at Cyprus, for the expedition was unlawful, if he that sent
him had no lawful authority:  for himself, he thought Clodius wee legally made tribune, who,
by permission of the law, was from a patrician adopted into a plebeian family; if he had done
ill in his office, he ought to be called to account for it; but the authority of the magistracy
ought not to suffer for the faults of the magistrate.  Cicero took this ill, and for a long
time discontinued his friendship with Cato; but they were afterwards reconciled.

Pompey and Crassus, by agreement with Caesar, who crossed the Alps to see them, had formed
a design, that they two should stand to be chosen consuls a second time, and when they should
be in their office, they would continue to Caesar his government for five years more, and take
to themselves the greatest provinces, with armies and money to maintain them.  This seemed
a plain conspiracy to subvert the constitution and parcel out the empire. Several men of high
character had intended to stand to be consuls that year, but upon the appearance of these great
competitors, they all desisted, except only Lucius Domitius, who had married Porcia, the sister
of Cato, and was by him persuaded to stand it out, and not abandon such an undertaking, which,
he said, was not merely to gain the consulship, but to save the liberty of Rome. In the meantime,
it was the common topic among the more prudent part of the citizens, that they ought not to
suffer the power of Pompey and Crassus to be united, which would then be carried beyond all
bounds, and become dangerous to the state; that therefore one of them must be denied.  For
these reasons they took part with Domitius, whom they exhorted and encouraged to go on, assuring
him, that many who feared openly to appear for him, would privately assist him.  Pompey's party
fearing this, laid wait for Domitius, and set upon him as he was going before daylight, with
torches, into the Field.  First he that bore the light next before Domitius, was knocked down
and killed; then several others being wounded, all the rest fled, except Cato and Domitius,
whom Cato held, though himself were wounded in the arm, and crying out, conjured the others
to stay, and not while they had any breath, forsake the defense of their liberty against those
tyrants, who plainly showed with what moderation they were likely to use the power, which they
endeavored to gain by such violence.  But at length Domitius also, no longer willing to face
the danger, fled to his own house, and so Pompey and Crassus were declared consuls.

Nevertheless, Cato would not give over, but resolved to stand himself to be praetor that year,
which he thought would be some help to him in his design of opposing them; that he might not
act as a private man, when he was to contend with public magistrates. Pompey and Crassus apprehended
this; and fearing that the office of praetor in the person of Cato might be equal in authority
to that of consul, they assembled the senate unexpectedly, without giving any notice to a great
many of the senators, and made an order, that those who were chosen praetors, should immediately
enter upon their office, without attending the usual time, in which, according to law, they
might be accused, if they had corrupted the people with gifts.  When by this order they had
got leave to bribe freely, without being called to account, they set up their own friends and
dependents to stand for the praetorship, giving money, and watching the people as they voted.
Yet the virtue and reputation of Cato was like to triumph over all these stratagems; for the
people generally felt it to be shameful that a price should be paid for the rejection of Cato,
who ought rather to be paid himself to take upon him the office.  So he carried it by the voices
of the first tribe.  Hereupon Pompey immediately framed a lie, crying out, it thundered; and
straight broke up the assembly; for the Romans religiously observed this as a bad omen, and
never concluded any matter after it had thundered.  Before the next time, they had distributed
larger bribes, and driving also the best men out of the Field, by these foul means they procured
Vatinius to be chosen praetor, instead of Cato.  It is said, that those who had thus corruptly
and dishonestly given their voices, at once, when it was done, hurried, as if it were in flight,
out of the Field.  The others staying together, and exclaiming at the event, one of the tribunes
continued the assembly, and Cato standing up, as it were by inspiration, foretold all the miseries
that afterward befell the state, exhorted them to beware of Pompey and Crassus, who were guilty
of such things, and had laid such designs, that they might well fear to have Cato praetor.
When he had ended this speech, he was followed to his house by a greater number of people than
were all the new praetors elect put together.

Caius Trebonius now proposed the law for allotting provinces to the consuls, one of whom was
to have Spain and Africa, the other Egypt and Syria, with full power of making war, and carrying
it on both by sea and land, as they should think fit.  When this was proposed, all others despaired
of putting any stop to it, and neither did nor said anything against it.  But Cato, before
the voting began, went up into the place of speaking, and desiring to be heard, was with much
difficulty allowed two hours to speak. Having spent that time in informing them and reasoning
with them, and in foretelling to them much that was to come, he was not suffered to speak any
longer; but as he was going on, a sergeant came and pulled him down; yet when he was down,
he still continued speaking in a loud voice, and finding many to listen to him, and join in
his indignation.  Then the sergeant took him, and forced him out of the forum; but as soon
as he got loose, he returned again to the place of speaking, crying out to the people to stand
by him.  When he had done thus several times, Trebonius grew very angry, and commanded him
to be carried to prison; but the multitude followed him, and listened to the speech which he
made to them, as he went along, so that Trebonius began to be afraid again, and ordered him
to be released.  Thus that day was expended, and the business staved off by Cato.  But in the
days succeeding, many of the citizens being overawed by fears and threats, and others won by
gifts and favors, Aquillius, one of the tribunes, they kept by an armed force within the senate-house;
Cato, who cried, it thundered, they drove out of the forum; many were wounded, and some slain;
and at length by open force they passed the law.  At this many were so incensed, that they
got together, and were going to throw down the statues of Pompey; but Cato went, and diverted
them from that design.

Again, another law was proposed, concerning the provinces and legions for Caesar.  Upon this
occasion Cato did not apply himself to the people, but appealed to Pompey himself; and told
him, he did not consider now, that he was setting Caesar upon his own shoulders, who would
shortly grow too weighty for him, and at length, not able to lay down the burden, nor yet to
bear it any longer, he would precipitate both it and himself with it upon the commonwealth;
and then he would remember Cato's advice, which was no less advantageous to him, than just
and honest in itself. Thus was Pompey often warned, but still disregarded and slighted it,
never mistrusting Caesar's change, and always confiding in his own power and good fortune.

Cato was made praetor the following year; but, it seems, he did not do more honor and credit
to the office by his signal integrity, than he disgraced and diminished it by his strange behavior.
For he would often come to the court without his shoes, and sit upon the bench without any
under garment, and in this attire would give judgment in capital causes, and upon persons of
the highest rank.  It is said, also, he used to drink wine after his morning meal, and then
transact the business of his office; but this was wrongfully reported of him.  The people were
at that time extremely corrupted by the gifts of those who sought offices, and most made a
constant trade of selling their voices.  Cato was eager utterly to root this corruption out
of the commonwealth; he therefore persuaded the senate to make an order, that those who were
chosen into any office, though nobody should accuse them, should be obliged to come into the
court, and give account upon oath of their proceedings in their election. This was extremely
obnoxious to those who stood for the offices, and yet more to those vast numbers who took the
bribes.  Insomuch that one morning, as Cato was going to the tribunal, a great multitude of
people flocked together, and with loud cries and maledictions reviled him, and threw stones
at him.  Those that were about the tribunal presently fled, and Cato himself being forced thence,
and jostled about in the throng, very narrowly escaped the stones that were thrown at him,
and with much difficulty got hold of the Rostra, where, standing up with a bold and undaunted
countenance, he at once mastered the tumult, and silenced the clamor; and addressing them in
fit terms for the occasion, was heard with great attention, and perfectly quelled the sedition.
Afterwards, on the senate commending him for this, "But I," said he, "do not commend you for
abandoning your praetor in danger, and bringing him no assistance."

In the meantime, the candidates were in great perplexity; for every one dreaded to give money
himself, and yet feared lest his competitors should.  At length they agreed to lay down one
hundred and twenty-five thousand drachmas apiece, and then all of them to canvass fairly and
honestly, on condition, that if any one was found to make use of bribery, he should forfeit
the money.  Being thus agreed, they chose Cato to keep the stakes, and arbitrate the matter;
to him they brought the sum concluded on, and before him subscribed the agreement.  The money
he did not choose to have paid for them, but took their securities who stood bound for them.
Upon the day of election, he placed himself by the tribune who took the votes, and very watchfully
observing all that passed, he discovered one who had broken the agreement, and immediately
ordered him to pay his money to the rest.  They, however, commending his justice highly, remitted
the penalty, as thinking the discovery a sufficient punishment.  It raised, however, as much
envy against Cato as it gained him reputation, and many were offended at his thus taking upon
himself the whole authority of the senate, the courts of judicature, and the magistracies.
For there is no virtue, the honor and credit for which procures a man more odium than that
of justice; and this, because more than any other, it acquires a man power and authority among
the common people.  For they only honor the valiant and admire the wise, while in addition
they also love just men, and put entire trust and confidence in them.  They fear the bold man,
and mistrust the clever man, and moreover think them rather beholding; to their natural complexion,
than to any goodness of their will, for these excellences; they look upon valor as a certain
natural strength of the mind, and wisdom as a constitutional acuteness; whereas a man has it
in his power to be just, if he have but the will to be so, and therefore injustice is thought
the most dishonorable, because it is least excusable.

Cato upon this account was opposed by all the great men, who thought themselves reproved by
his virtue.  Pompey especially looked upon the increase of Cato's credit, as the ruin of his
own power, and therefore continually set up men to rail against him. Among these was the seditious
Clodius, now again united to Pompey; who declared openly, that Cato had conveyed away a great
deal of the treasure that was found in Cyprus; and that he hated Pompey, only because he refused
to marry his daughter.  Cato answered, that although they had allowed him neither horse nor
man, he had brought more treasure from Cyprus alone, than Pompey had, after so many wars and
triumphs, from the ransacked world; that he never sought the alliance of Pompey; not that he
thought him unworthy of being related to him, but because he differed so much from him, in
things that concerned the commonwealth.  "For," said he, "I laid down the province that was
given me, when I went out of my praetorship; Pompey, on the contrary, retains many provinces
for himself; and he bestows many on others; and but now he sent Caesar a force of six thousand
men into Gaul, which Caesar never asked the people for, nor had Pompey obtained their consent
to give.  Men, and horse, and arms in any number, are become the mutual gifts of private men
to one another; and Pompey keeping the titles of commander and general, hands over the armies
and provinces to others to govern, while he himself stays at home to preside at the contests
of the canvass, and to stir up tumults at elections; out of the anarchy he thus creates amongst
us, seeking, we see well enough, a monarchy for himself."  Thus he retorted on Pompey.

He had an intimate friend and admirer of the name of Marcus Favonius, much the same to Cato
as we are told Apollodorus, the Phalerian, was in old time to Socrates, whose words used to
throw him into perfect transports and ecstasies, getting into his head, like strong wine, and
intoxicating him to a sort of frenzy.  This Favonius stood to be chosen aedile, and was like
to lose it; but Cato, who was there to assist him, observed that all the votes were written
in one hand, and discovering the cheat, appealed to the tribunes, who stopped the election.
Favonius was afterward chosen aedile, and Cato, who assisted him in all things that belonged
to his office, also undertook the care of the spectacles that were exhibited in the theater;
giving the actors crowns, not of gold, but of wild olive, such as used to be given at the Olympic
games; and instead of the magnificent presents that were usually made, he offered to the Greeks
beet root, lettuces, radishes, and pears; and to the Romans, earthen pots of wine, pork, figs,
cucumbers, and little fagots of wood.  Some ridiculed Cato for his economy, others looked with
respect on this gentle relaxation of his usual rigor and austerity.  In fine, Favonius himself
mingled with the crowd, and sitting among the spectators, clapped and applauded Cato, bade
him bestow rewards on those who did well, and called on the people to pay their honors to him,
as for himself he had placed his whole authority in Cato's hands. At the same time, Curio,
the colleague of Favonius, gave very magnificent entertainments in another theater; but the
people left his, and went to those of Favonius, which they much applauded, and joined heartily
in the diversion, seeing him act the private man, and Cato the master of the shows, who, in
fact, did all this in derision of the great expenses that others incurred, and to teach them
that in amusements men ought to seek amusement only, and the display of a decent cheerfulness,
not great preparations and costly magnificence, demanding the expenditure of endless care and
trouble about things of little concern.

After this Scipio, Hypsaeus, and Milo, stood to be consuls, and that not only with the usual
and now recognized disorders of bribery and corruption, but with arms and slaughter, and every
appearance of carrying their audacity and desperation to the length of actual civil war.  Whereupon
it was proposed, that Pompey might be empowered to preside over that election.  This Cato at
first opposed, saying that the laws ought not to seek protection from Pompey, but Pompey from
the laws.  Yet the confusion lasting a long time, the forum continually, as it were, besieged
with three armies, and no possibility appearing of a stop being put to these disorders, Cato
at length agreed, that rather than fall into the last extremity, the senate should freely confer
all on Pompey, since it was necessary to make use of a lesser illegality as a remedy against
the greatest of all, and better to set up a monarchy themselves, than to suffer a sedition
to continue, that must certainly end in one.  Bibulus, therefore, a friend of Cato's, moved
the senate to create Pompey sole consul; for that either he would reestablish the lawful government,
or they should serve under the best master.  Cato stood up, and, contrary to all expectation,
seconded this motion, concluding, that any government was better than mere confusion, and that
he did not question but Pompey would deal honorably, and take care of the commonwealth, thus
committed to his charge. Pompey being hereupon declared consul, invited Cato to see him in
the suburbs.  When he came, he saluted and embraced him very kindly, acknowledged the favor
he had done him, and desired his counsel and assistance, in the management of this office.
Cato made answer, that what he had spoken on any former occasion was not out of hate to Pompey,
nor what he had now done, out of love to him, but all for the good of the commonwealth; that
in private, if he asked him, he would freely give his advice; and in public, though he asked
him not, he would always speak his opinion.  And he did accordingly.  For first, when Pompey
made severe laws for punishing and laying great fines on those who had corrupted the people
with gifts, Cato advised him to let alone what was already passed, and to provide for the future;
for if he should look up past misdemeanors, it would be difficult to know where to stop; and
if he would ordain new penalties, it would be unreasonable to punish men by a law, which at
that time they had not the opportunity of breaking.  Afterwards, when many considerable men,
and some of Pompey's own relations were accused, and he grew remiss, and disinclined to the
prosecution, Cato sharply reproved him, and urged him to proceed.  Pompey had made a law, also,
to forbid the custom of making commendatory orations in behalf of those that were accused;
yet he himself wrote one for Munatius Plancus, and sent it while the cause was pleading; upon
which Cato, who was sitting as one of the judges, stopped his ears with his hands, and would
not hear it read. Whereupon Plancus, before sentence was given, excepted against him, but was
condemned notwithstanding.  And indeed Cato was a great trouble and perplexity to almost all
that were accused of anything, as they feared to have him one of their judges, yet did not
dare to demand his exclusion.  And many had been condemned, because by refusing him, they seemed
to show that they could not trust their own innocence; and it was a reproach thrown in the
teeth of some by their enemies, that they had not accepted Cato for their judge.

In the meanwhile, Caesar kept close with his forces in Gaul, and continued in arms; and at
the same time employed his gifts, his riches, and his friends above all things, to increase
his power in the city.  And now Cato's old admonitions began to rouse Pompey out of the negligent
security in which he lay, into a sort of imagination of danger at hand; but seeing him slow
and unwilling, and timorous to undertake any measures of prevention against Caesar, Cato resolved
himself to stand for the consulship, and presently force Caesar either to lay down his arms
or discover his intentions.  Both Cato's competitors were persons of good position; Sulpicius,
who was one, owed much to Cato's credit and authority in the city, and it was thought unhandsome
and ungratefully done, to stand against him; not that Cato himself took it ill, "For it is
no wonder," said he, "if a man will not yield to another, in that which he esteems the greatest
good."  He had persuaded the senate to make an order, that those who stood for offices, should
themselves ask the people for their votes, and not solicit by others, nor take others about
with them, to speak for them, in their canvass.  And this made the common people very hostile
to him, if they were to lose not only the means of receiving money, but also the opportunity
of obliging several persons, and so to become by his means both poor and less regarded.  Besides
this, Cato himself was by nature altogether unfit for the business of canvassing, as he was
more anxious to sustain the dignity of his life and character, than to obtain the office. 
Thus by following his own way of soliciting, and not suffering his friends to do those things
which take with the multitude, he was rejected, and lost the consulship.

But whereas, upon such occasions, not only those who missed the office, but even their friends
and relations, used to feel themselves disgraced and humiliated, and observed a sort of mourning
for several days after, Cato took it so unconcernedly, that he anointed himself, and played
at ball in the Field, and after breakfasting, went into the forum, as he used to do, without
his shoes or his tunic, and there walked about with his acquaintance.  Cicero blames him, for
that when affairs required such a consul, he would not take more pains, nor condescend to pay
some court to the people, as also because that he afterwards neglected to try again; whereas
he had stood a second time to be chosen praetor.  Cato answered, that he lost the praetorship
the first time, not by the voice of the people, but by the violence and corrupt dealing of
his adversaries; whereas in the election of consuls, there had been no foul play.  So that
he plainly saw the people did not like his manners, which an honest man ought not to alter
for their sake; nor yet would a wise man attempt the same thing again, while liable to the
same prejudices.

Caesar was at this time engaged with many warlike nations, and was subduing them at great hazards.
Among the rest, it was believed he had set upon the Germans, in a time of truce, and had thus
slain three hundred thousand of them.  Upon which, some of his friends moved the senate for
a public thanksgiving; but Cato declared, they ought to deliver Caesar into the hands of those
who had been thus unjustly treated, and so expiate the offense and not bring a curse upon the
city; "Yet we have reason," said he, "to thank the gods, for that they spared the commonwealth,
and did not take vengeance upon the army, for the madness and folly of the general."  Hereupon
Caesar wrote a letter to the senate, which was read openly, and was full of reproachful language
and accusations against Cato; who, standing up, seemed not at all concerned, and without any
heat or passion, but in a calm and, as it were, premeditated discourse, made all Caesar's charges
against him show like mere common scolding and abuse, and in fact a sort of pleasantry and
play on Caesar's part; and proceeding then to go into all Caesar's political courses, and to
explain and reveal (as though he had been not his constant opponent, but his fellow-conspirator,)
his whole conduct and purpose from its commencement, he concluded by telling the senate, it
was not the sons of the Britons or the Gauls they need fear, but Caesar himself, if they were
wise.  And this discourse so moved and awakened the senate, that Caesar's friends repented
they had had a letter read, which had given Cato an opportunity of saying so many reasonable
things, and such severe truths against him.  However, nothing was then decided upon; it was
merely said, that it would be well to send him a successor.  Upon that Caesar's friends required,
that Pompey also should lay down his arms, and resign his provinces, or else that Caesar might
not be obliged to either.  Then Cato cried out, what he had foretold was come to pass; now
it was manifest he was using his forces to compel their judgment, and was turning against the
state those armies he had got from it by imposture and trickery.  But out of the Senate-house
Cato could do but little, as the people were ever ready to magnify Caesar and the senate, though
convinced by Cato, were afraid of the people.

But when the news was brought that Caesar had seized Ariminum, and was marching with his army
toward Rome, then all men, even Pompey, and the common people too, cast their eyes on Cato,
who had alone foreseen and first clearly declared Caesar's intentions.  He, therefore, told
them, "If you had believed me, or regarded my advice, you would not now have been reduced to
stand in fear of one man, or to put all your hopes in one alone." Pompey acknowledged, that
Cato indeed had spoken most like a prophet, while he himself had acted too much like a friend.
And Cato advised the senate to put all into the hands of Pompey; "For those who can raise up
great evils," said he, "can best allay them."

Pompey, finding he had not sufficient forces, and that those he could raise, were not very
resolute, forsook the city.  Cato, resolving to follow Pompey into exile, sent his younger
son to Munatius, who was then in the country of Bruttium, and took his eldest with him; but
wanting somebody to keep his house and take care of his daughters, he took Marcia again, who
was now a rich widow, Hortensius being dead, and having left her all his estate. Caesar afterward
made use of this action also, to reproach him with covetousness, and a mercenary design in
his marriage. "For," said he, "if he had need of wife, why did he part with her?  And if he
had not, why did he take her again?  Unless he gave her only as a bait to Hortensius; and lent
her when she was young, to have her again when she was rich."  But in answer to this, we might
fairly apply the saying of Euripides.

To speak of mysteries -- the chief of these Surely were cowardice in Hercules.

For it is much the same thing to reproach Hercules for cowardice, and to accuse Cato of covetousness;
though otherwise, whether he did altogether right in this marriage, might be disputed.  As
soon, however, as he had again taken Marcia, he committed his house and his daughters to her,
and himself followed Pompey.  And it is said, that from that day he never cut his hair, nor
shaved his beard, nor wore a garland, but was always full of sadness, grief, and dejectedness
for the calamities of his country, and continually showed the same feeling to the last, whatever
party had misfortune or success.

The government of Sicily being allotted to him, he passed over to Syracuse; where understanding
that Asinius Pollio was arrived at Messena, with forces from the enemy, Cato sent to him, to
know the reason of his coming thither:  Pollio, on the other side, called upon him to show
reason for the present convulsions.  And being at the same time informed how Pompey had quite
abandoned Italy, and lay encamped at Dyrrhachium, he spoke of the strangeness and incomprehensibility
of the divine government of things; "Pompey, when he did nothing wisely nor honestly, was always
successful; and now that he would preserve his country, and defend her liberty, he is altogether
unfortunate."  As for Asinius, he said, he could drive him out of Sicily, but as there were
larger forces coming to his assistance, he would not engage the island in a war.  He therefore
advised the Syracusans to join the conquering party and provide for their own safety; and so
set sail from thence.

When he came to Pompey, he uniformly gave advice to protract the war; as he always hoped to
compose matters, and was by no means desirous that they should come to action; for the commonwealth
would suffer extremely, and be the certain cause of its own ruin, whoever were conqueror by
the sword.  In like manner, he persuaded Pompey and the council to ordain, that no city should
be sacked that was subject to the people of Rome; and that no Roman should be killed, but in
the heat of battle; and hereby he got himself great honor, and brought over many to Pompey's
party, whom his moderation and humanity attracted.  Afterwards being sent into Asia, to assist
those who were raising men, and preparing ships in those parts, he took with him his sister
Servilia, and a little boy whom she had by Lucullus.  For since her widowhood, she had lived
with her brother, and much recovered her reputation, having put herself under his care, followed
him in his voyages, and complied with his severe way of living.  Yet Caesar did not fail to
asperse him upon her account also.

Pompey's officers in Asia, it seems, had no great need of Cato; but he brought over the people
of Rhodes by his persuasions, and leaving his sister Servilia and her child there, he returned
to Pompey, who had now collected very great forces both by sea and land.  And here Pompey,
more than in any other act, betrayed his intentions.  For at first he designed to give Cato
the command of the navy, which consisted of no less than five hundred ships of war, besides
a vast number of light galleys, scouts, and open boats.  But presently bethinking himself,
or put in mind by his friends, that Cato's principal and only aim being to free his country
from all usurpation, if he were master of such great forces, as soon as ever Caesar should
be conquered, he would certainly call upon Pompey, also, to lay down his arms, and be subject
to the laws, he changed his mind, and though he had already mentioned it to Cato, nevertheless
made Bibulus admiral. Notwithstanding this, he had no reason to suppose that Cato's zeal in
the cause was in any way diminished.  For before one of the battles at Dyrrhachium, when Pompey
himself, we are told, made an address to the soldiers and bade the officers do the like, the
men listened to them but coldly, and with silence, until Cato, last of all, came forward, and
in the language of philosophy, spoke to them, as the occasion required, concerning liberty,
manly virtue, death, and a good name; upon all which he delivered himself with strong natural
passion, and concluded with calling in the aid of the gods, to whom he directed his speech,
as if they were present to behold them fight for their country. And at this the army gave such
a shout and showed such excitement, that their officers led them on full of hope and confidence
to the danger.  Caesar's party were routed, and put to flight; but his presiding fortune used
the advantage of Pompey's cautiousness and diffidence, to render the victory incomplete. But
of this we have spoken in the life of Pompey.  While, however, all the rest rejoiced, and magnified
their success, Cato alone bewailed his country, and cursed that fatal ambition, which made
so many brave Romans murder one another.

After this, Pompey following Caesar into Thessaly, left at Dyrrhachium a quantity of munitions,
money, and stores, and many of his domestics and relations; the charge of all which he gave
to Cato, with the command only of fifteen cohorts.  For though he trusted him much, yet he
was afraid of him too, knowing full well, that if he had bad success, Cato would be the last
to forsake him, but if he conquered, would never let him use his victory at his pleasure. 
There were, likewise, many persons of high rank that stayed with Cato at Dyrrhachium.  When
they heard of the overthrow at Pharsalia, Cato resolved with himself, that if Pompey were slain,
he would conduct those that were with him into Italy, and then retire as far from the tyranny
of Caesar as he could, and live in exile; but if Pompey were safe, he would keep the army together
for him.  With this resolution he passed over to Corcyra, where the navy lay, there he would
have resigned his command to Cicero, because he had been consul, and himself only a praetor:
but Cicero refused it, and was going for Italy. At which Pompey's son being incensed, would
rashly and in heat have punished all those who were going away, and in the first place have
laid hands on Cicero; but Cato spoke with him in private, and diverted him from that design.
And thus he clearly saved the life of Cicero, and rescued several others also from ill-treatment.

Conjecturing that Pompey the Great was fled toward Egypt or Africa, Cato resolved to hasten
after him; and having taken all his men aboard, he set sail; but first to those who were not
zealous to continue the contest, he gave free liberty to depart. When they came to the coast
of Africa, they met with Sextus, Pompey's younger son, who told them of the death of his father
in Egypt; at which they were all exceedingly grieved, and declared that after Pompey they would
follow no other leader but Cato. Out of compassion therefore to so many worthy persons, who
had given such testimonies of their fidelity, and whom he could not for shame leave in a desert
country, amidst so many difficulties, he took upon him the command, and marched toward the
city of Cyrene, which presently received him, though not long before they had shut their gates
against Labienus.  Here he was informed that Scipio, Pompey's father-in-law, was received by
king Juba, and that Attius Varus, whom Pompey had made governor of Africa, had joined them
with his forces.  Cato therefore resolved to march toward them by land, it being now winter;
and got together a number of asses to carry water, and furnished himself likewise with plenty
of all other provision, and a number of carriages. He took also with him some of those they
call Psylli, who cure the biting of serpents, by sucking out the poison with their mouths,
and have likewise certain charms, by which they stupefy and lay asleep the serpents.

Thus they marched seven days together, Cato all the time going on foot at the head of his men,
and never making use of any horse or chariot.  Ever since the battle of Pharsalia, he used
to sit at table, and added this to his other ways of mourning, that he never lay down but to sleep.

Having passed the winter in Africa, Cato drew out his army, which amounted to little less than
ten thousand.  The affairs of Scipio and Varus went very ill, by reason of their dissensions
and quarrels among themselves, and their submissions and flatteries to king Juba, who was insupportable
for his vanity, and the pride he took in his strength and riches.  The first time he came to
a conference with Cato, he had ordered his own seat to be placed in the middle, between Scipio
and Cato; which Cato observing, took up his chair, and set himself on the other side of Scipio,
to whom he thus gave the honor of sitting in the middle, though he were his enemy, and had
formerly published some scandalous writing against him.  There are people who speak as if this
were quite an insignificant matter, and who nevertheless find fault with Cato, because in Sicily,
walking one day with Philostratus, he gave him the middle place, to show his respect for philosophy.
However, he now succeeded both in humbling the pride of Juba, who was treating Scipio and Varus
much like a pair of satraps under his orders, and also in reconciling them to each other. 
All the troops desired him to be their leader; Scipio, likewise, and Varus gave way to it,
and offered him the command; but he said, he would not break those laws, which he sought to
defend, and he, being, but propraetor, ought not to command in the presence of a proconsul,
(for Scipio had been created proconsul,) besides that people took it as a good omen; to see
a Scipio command in Africa, and the very name inspired the soldiers with hopes of success.

Scipio, having taken upon him the command, presently resolved, at the instigation of Juba,
to put all the inhabitants of Utica to the sword, and to raze the city, for having, as they
professed, taken part with Caesar.  Cato would by no means suffer this; but invoking the gods,
exclaiming and protesting against it in the council of war, he with much difficulty delivered
the poor people from this cruelty.  And afterwards, upon the entreaty of the inhabitants, and
at the instance of Scipio, Cato took upon himself the government of Utica, lest, one way or
other, it should fall into Caesar's hands; for it was a strong place, and very advantageous
for either party.  And it was yet better provided and more strongly fortified by Cato, who
brought in great store of corn, repaired the walls, erected towers, and made deep trenches
and palisades around the town.  The young men of Utica he lodged among these works, having
first taken their arms from them; the rest of the inhabitants he kept within the town, and
took the greatest care, that no injury should be done nor affront offered them by the Romans.
From hence he sent great quantity of arms, money, and provision to the camp, and made this
city their chief magazine.

He advised Scipio, as he had before done Pompey, by no means to hazard a battle against a man
experienced in war, and formidable in the field, but to use delay; for time would gradually
abate the violence of the crisis, which is the strength of usurpation. But Scipio out of pride
rejected this counsel, and wrote a letter to Cato, in which he reproached him with cowardice;
and that he could not be content to lie secure himself within walls and trenches, but he must
hinder others from boldly using their own good-sense to seize the right opportunity.  In answer
to this, Cato wrote word again, that he would take the horse and foot which he had brought
into Africa, and go over into Italy, to make a diversion there, and draw Caesar off from them.
But Scipio derided this proposition also.  Then Cato openly let it be seen that he was sorry
he had yielded the command to Scipio, who he saw would not carry on the war with any wisdom,
and if, contrary to all appearance, he should succeed, he would use his success as unjustly
at home.  For Cato had then made up his mind, and so he told his friends, that he could have
but slender hopes in those generals that had so much boldness, and so little conduct; yet if
anything should happen beyond expectation, and Caesar should be overthrown, for his part he
would not stay at Rome, but would retire from the cruelty and inhumanity of Scipio, who had
already uttered fierce and proud threats against many.

But what Cato had looked for, fell out sooner than he expected. Late in the evening came one
from the army, whence he had been three days coming, who brought word there had been a great
battle near Thapsus; that all was utterly lost; Caesar had taken the camps, Scipio and Juba
were fled with a few only, and all the rest of the army was lost.  This news arriving in time
of war, and in the night, so alarmed the people, that they were almost out of their wits, and
could scarce keep themselves within the walls of the city.  But Cato came forward, and meeting
the people in this hurry and clamor, did all he could to comfort and encourage them, and somewhat
appeased the fear and amazement they were in, telling them that very likely things were not
so bad in truth, but much exaggerated in the report.  And so he pacified the tumult for the
present.  The next morning, he sent for the three hundred, whom he used as his council; these
were Romans, who were in Africa upon business, in commerce and money-lending; there were also
several senators and their sons.  They were summoned to meet in the temple of Jupiter.  While
they were coming together, Cato walked about very quietly and unconcerned, as if nothing new
had happened.  He had a book in his hand, which he was reading; in this book was an account
of what provision he had for war, armor, corn, ammunition and soldiers.

When they were assembled, he began his discourse; first, as regarded the three hundred themselves,
and very much commended the courage and fidelity they had shown, and their having very well
served their country with their persons, money, and counsel. Then he entreated them by no means
to separate, as if each single man could hope for any safety in forsaking his companions; on
the contrary, while they kept together, Caesar would have less reason to despise them, if they
fought against him, and be more forward to pardon them, if they submitted to him.  Therefore,
he advised them to consult among themselves, nor should he find fault, whichever course they
adopted.  If they thought fit to submit to fortune, he would impute their change to necessity;
but if they resolved to stand firm, and undertake the danger for the sake of liberty, he should
not only commend, but admire their courage, and would himself be their leader and companion
too, till they had put to the proof the utmost fortune of their country; which was not Utica
or Adrumetum, but Rome, and she had often, by her own greatness, raised herself after worse
disasters.  Besides, as there were many things that would conduce to their safety, so chiefly
this, that they were to fight against one whose affairs urgently claimed his presence in various
quarters.  Spain was already revolted to the younger Pompey; Rome was unaccustomed to the bridle,
and impatient of it, and would therefore be ready to rise in insurrection upon any turn of
affairs.  As for themselves, they ought not to shrink from the danger; and in this might take
example from their enemy, who so freely exposes his life to effect the most unrighteous designs,
yet never can hope for so happy a conclusion, as they may promise themselves; for notwithstanding
the uncertainty of war, they will be sure of a most happy life, if they succeed, or a most
glorious death, if they miscarry.  However, he said, they ought to deliberate among themselves,
and he joined with them in praying the gods that in recompense of their former courage and
goodwill, they would prosper their present determinations.  When Cato had thus spoken, many
were moved and encouraged by his arguments, but the greatest part were so animated by the sense
of his intrepidity, generosity, and goodness, that they forgot the present danger, and as if
he were the only invincible leader, and above all fortune, they entreated him to employ their
persons, arms, and estates, as he thought fit; for they esteemed it far better to meet death
in following his counsel, than to find their safety in betraying one of so great virtue.  One
of the assembly proposed the making a decree, to set the slaves at liberty; and most of the
rest approved the motion.  Cato said, that it ought not to be done, for it was neither just
nor lawful; but if any of their masters would willingly set them free, those that were fit
for service should be received.  Many promised so to do; whose names he ordered to be enrolled,
and then withdrew.

Presently after this, he received letters from Juba and Scipio. Juba, with some few of his
men, was retired to a mountain, where he waited to hear what Cato would resolve upon; and intended
to stay there for him, if he thought fit to leave Utica, or to come to his aid with his troops,
if he were besieged.  Scipio was on shipboard, near a certain promontory, not far from Utica,
expecting an answer upon the same account.  But Cato thought fit to retain the messengers,
till the three hundred should come to some resolution,

As for the senators that were there, they showed great forwardness, and at once set free their
slaves, and furnished them with arms.  But the three hundred being men occupied in merchandise
and money-lending, much of their substance also consisting in slaves, the enthusiasm that Cato's
speech had raised in them, did not long continue.  As there are substances that easily admit
heat, and as suddenly lose it, when the fire is removed, so these men were heated and inflamed,
while Cato was present; but when they began to reason among themselves, the fear they had of
Caesar, soon overcame their reverence for Cato and for virtue.  "For who are we," said they,
"and who is it we refuse to obey?  Is it not that Caesar, who is now invested with all the
power of Rome? and which of us is a Scipio, a Pompey, or a Cato?  But now that all men make
their honor give way to their fear, shall we alone engage for the liberty of Rome, and in Utica
declare war against him, before whom Cato and Pompey the Great fled out of Italy?  Shall we
set free our slaves against Caesar, who have ourselves no more liberty than he is pleased to
allow? No, let us, poor creatures, know ourselves, submit to the victor, and send deputies
to implore his mercy."  Thus said the most moderate of them; but the greatest part were for
seizing the senators, that by securing them, they might appease Caesar's anger.  Cato, though
he perceived the change, took no notice of it; but wrote to Juba and Scipio to keep away from
Utica, because he mistrusted the three hundred.

A considerable body of horse, which had escaped from the late fight, riding up towards Utica,
sent three men before to Cato, who yet did not all bring the same message; for one party was
for going to Juba, another for joining with Cato, and some again were afraid to go into Utica.
When Cato heard this, he ordered Marcus Rubrius to attend upon the three hundred, and quietly
take the names of those who of their own accord set their slaves at liberty, but by no means
to force anybody.  Then, taking with him the senators, he went out of the town, and met the
principal officers of these horsemen, whom he entreated not to abandon so many Roman senators,
nor to prefer Juba for their commander before Cato, but consult the common safety, and to come
into the city, which was impregnable, and well furnished with corn and other provision, sufficient
for many years.  The senators, likewise, with tears besought them to stay.  Hereupon the officers
went to consult their soldiers, and Cato with the senators sat down upon an embankment, expecting
their resolution. In the meantime comes Rubrius in great disorder, crying out, the three hundred
were all in commotion, and exciting revolt and tumult in the city.  At this all the rest fell
into despair, lamenting and bewailing their condition.  Cato endeavored to comfort them, and
sent to the three hundred, desiring them to have patience.  Then the officers of the horse
returned with no very reasonable demands.  They said, they did not desire to serve Juba, for
his pay, nor should they fear Caesar, while they followed Cato, but they dreaded to be shut
up with the Uticans, men of traitorous temper, and Carthaginian blood; for though they were
quiet at present, yet as soon as Caesar should appear, without doubt they would conspire together,
and betray the Romans.  Therefore, if he expected they should join with him, he must drive
out of the town or destroy all the Uticans, that he might receive them into a place clear both
of enemies and barbarians.  This Cato thought utterly cruel and barbarous; but he mildly answered,
he would consult the three hundred.

Then he returned to the city, where he found the men, not framing excuses, or dissembling out
of reverence to him, but openly declaring that no one should compel them to make war against
Caesar; which, they said, they were neither able nor willing to do.  And some there were who
muttered words about retaining the senators till Caesar's coming; but Cato seemed not to hear
this, as indeed he had the excuse of being a little deaf.  At the same time came one to him,
and told him the horse were going away. And now, fearing lest the three hundred should take
some desperate resolution concerning the senators, he presently went out with some of his friends,
and seeing they were gone some way, he took horse, and rode after them.  They, when they saw
him coming, were very glad, and received him very kindly, entreating him to save himself with
them.  At this time, it is said, Cato shed tears, while entreating them on behalf of the senators,
and stretching out his hands in supplication.  He turned some of their horses' heads, and laid
hold of the men by their armor, till in fine he prevailed with them, out of compassion, to
stay only that one day, to procure a safe retreat for the senators. Having thus persuaded them
to go along with him, some he placed at the gates of the town, and to others gave the charge
of the citadel.  The three hundred began to fear they should suffer for their inconstancy,
and sent to Cato, entreating him by all means to come to them; but the senators flocking about
him, would not suffer him to go, and said they would not trust their guardian and savior to
the hands of perfidious traitors.

For there had never, perhaps, been a time when Cato's virtue appeared more manifestly; and
every class of men in Utica could clearly see, with sorrow and admiration, how entirely free
was everything that he was doing from any secret motives or any mixture of self-regard; he,
namely, who had long before resolved on his own death, was taking such extreme pains, toil,
and care, only for the sake of others, that when he had secured their lives, he might put an
end to his own.  For it was easily perceived, that he had determined to die, though he did
not let it appear.

Therefore, having pacified the senators, he complied with the request of the three hundred,
and went to them alone without any attendance.  They gave him many thanks, and entreated him
to employ and trust them for the future; and if they were not Catos, and could not aspire to
his greatness of mind, they begged he would pity their weakness; and told him, they had determined
to send to Caesar and entreat him, chiefly and in the first place, for Cato, and if they could
not prevail for him, they would not accept of pardon for themselves, but as long as they had
breath, would fight in his defense.  Cato commended their good intentions, and advised them
to send speedily, for their own safety, but by no means to ask anything in his behalf; for
those who are conquered, entreat, and those who have done wrong, beg pardon; for himself, he
did not confess to any defeat in all his life, but rather, so far as he had thought fit, he
had got the victory, and had conquered Caesar in all points of justice and honesty.  It was
Caesar that ought to be looked upon as one surprised and vanquished; for he was now convicted
and found guilty of those designs against his country, which he had so long practiced and so
constantly denied.  When he had thus spoken, he went out of the assembly, and being informed
that Caesar was coming with his whole army, "Ah," said he, "he expects to find us brave men."
Then he went to the senators, and urged them to make no delay, but hasten to be gone, while
the horsemen were yet in the city.  So ordering all the gates to be shut, except one towards
the sea, he assigned their several ships to those that were to depart, and gave money and provision
to those that wanted; all which he did with great order and exactness, taking care to suppress
all tumults, and that no wrong should be done to the people.

Marcus Octavius, coming with two legions, now encamped near Utica, and sent to Cato, to arrange
about the chief command. Cato returned him no answer; but said to his friends, "Can we wonder
all has gone ill with us, when our love of office survives even in our very ruin?"  In the
meantime, word was brought him, that the horse were going away, and were beginning to spoil
and plunder the citizens.  Cato ran to them, and from the first he met, snatched what they
had taken; the rest threw down all they had gotten, and went away silent, and ashamed of what
they had done.  Then he called together all the people of Utica, and requested them upon the
behalf of the three hundred, not to exasperate Caesar against them, but all to seek their common
safety together with them.  After that, he went again to the port, to see those who were about
to embark; and there he embraced and dismissed those of his friends and acquaintance whom he
had persuaded to go.  As for his son, he did not counsel him to be gone, nor did he think fit
to persuade him to forsake his father.  But there was one Statyllius, a young man, in the flower
of his age, of a brave spirit, and very desirous to imitate the constancy of Cato.  Cato entreated
him to go away, as he was a noted enemy to Caesar, but without success.  Then Cato looked at
Apollonides, the stoic philosopher, and Demetrius, the peripatetic; "It belongs to you," said
he, "to cool the fever of this young man's spirit, and to make him know what is good for him."
And thus, in setting his friends upon their way, and in dispatching the business of any that
applied to him, he spent that night, and the greatest part of the next day.

Lucius Caesar, a kinsman of Caesar's, being appointed to go deputy for the three hundred, came
to Cato, and desired he would assist him to prepare a persuasive speech for them; "And as to
you yourself," said he, "it will be an honor for me to kiss the hands and fall at the knees
of Caesar, in your behalf."  But Cato would by no means permit him to do any such thing; "For
as to myself," said he, "if I would be preserved by Caesar's favor, I should myself go to him;
but I would not be beholden to a tyrant, for his acts of tyranny.  For it is but usurpation
in him to save, as their rightful lord, the lives of men over whom he has no title to reign.
But if you please, let us consider what you had best say for the three hundred."  And when
they had continued some time together, as Lucius was going away, Cato recommended to him his
son, and the rest of his friends; and taking him by the hand, bade him farewell.

Then he retired to his house again, and called together his son and his friends, to whom he
conversed on various subjects; among the rest, he forbade his son to engage himself in the
affairs of state.  For to act therein as became him, was now impossible; and to do otherwise,
would be dishonorable.  Toward evening he went into his bath.  As he was bathing, he remembered
Statyllius, and called out aloud, "Apollonides, have you tamed the high spirit of Statyllius,
and is he gone without bidding us farewell?"  "No," said Apollonides, "I have said much to
him, but to little purpose; he is still resolute and unalterable, and declares he is determined
to follow your example."  At this, it is said, Cato smiled, and answered, "That will soon be
tried."

After he had bathed, he went to supper, with a great deal of company; at which he sat up, as
he had always used to do ever since the battle of Pharsalia; for since that time he never lay
down, but when he went to sleep.  There supped with him all his own friends and the magistrates
of Utica.

After supper, the wine produced a great deal of lively and agreeable discourse, and a whole
series of philosophical questions was discussed.  At length they came to the strange dogmas
of the stoics, called their Paradoxes; and to this in particular, That the good man only is
free, and that all wicked men are slaves.  The peripatetic, as was to be expected, opposing
this, Cato fell upon him very warmly; and somewhat raising his voice, he argued the matter
at great length, and urged the point with such vehemence, that it was apparent to everybody,
he was resolved to put an end to his life, and set himself at liberty. And so, when he had
done speaking, there was a great silence, and evident dejection.  Cato, therefore, to divert
them from any suspicion of his design, turned the conversation, and began again to talk of
matters of present interest and expectation, showing great concern for those that were at sea,
as also for the others, who, traveling by land, were to pass through a dry and barbarous desert.

When the company was broke up, he walked with his friends, as he used to do after supper, gave
the necessary orders to the officers of the watch, and going into his chamber, he embraced
his son and every one of his friends with more than usual warmth, which again renewed their
suspicion of his design.  Then laying himself down, he took into his hand Plato's dialogue
concerning the soul.  Having read more than half the book, he looked up, and missing his sword,
which his son had taken away while he was at supper, he called his servant, and asked, who
had taken away his sword.  The servant making no answer, he fell to reading again; and a little
after, not seeming importunate, or hasty for it, but as if he would only know what was become
of it, he bade it be brought.  But having waited some time, when he had read through the book,
and still nobody brought the sword, he called up all his servants, and in a louder tone demanded
his sword.  To one of them he gave such a blow in the mouth, that he hurt his own hand; and
now grew more angry, exclaiming that he was betrayed and delivered naked to the enemy by his
son and his servants.  Then his son, with the rest of his friends, came running, into the room,
and falling at his feet, began to lament and beseech him. But Cato raising up himself, and
looking fiercely, "When," said he, "and how did I become deranged, and out of my senses, that
thus no one tries to persuade me by reason, or show me what is better, if I am supposed to
be ill-advised?  Must I be disarmed, and hindered from using my own reason?  And you, young
man, why do not you bind your father's hands behind him, that when Caesar comes, he may find
me unable to defend myself?  To dispatch myself I want no sword; I need but hold my breath
awhile, or strike my head against the wall."

When he had thus spoken, his son went weeping out of the chamber, and with him all the rest,
except Demetrius and Apollollides, to whom, being left alone with him, he began to speak more
calmly. "And you," said he, "do you also think to keep a man of my age alive by force, and
to sit here and silently watch me?  Or do you bring me some reasons to prove, that it will
not be base and unworthy for Cato, when he can find his safety no other way, to seek it from
his enemy?  If so, adduce your arguments, and show cause why we should now unlearn what we
formerly were taught, in order that rejecting all the convictions in which we lived, we may
now by Caesar's help grow wiser, and be yet more obliged to him, than for life only.  Not that
I have determined aught concerning myself, but I would have it in my power to perform what
I shall think fit to resolve; and I shall not fail to take you as my advisers, in holding counsel,
as I shall do, with the doctrines which your philosophy teaches; in the meantime, do not trouble
yourselves; but go tell my son, that he should not compel his father to what he cannot persuade
him to."  They made him no answer, but went weeping out of the chamber.  Then the sword being
brought in by a little boy, Cato took it, drew it out, and looked at it; and when he saw the
point was good, "Now," said he, "I am master of myself;" and laying down the sword, he took
his book again, which, it is related, he read twice over.  After this he slept so soundly,
that he was heard to snore by those that were without.

About midnight, he called up two of his freedmen, Cleanthes, his physician, and Butas, whom
he chiefly employed in public business.  Him he sent to the port, to see if all his friends
had sailed; to the physician he gave his hand to be dressed, as it was swollen with the blow
he had struck one of his servants.  At this they all rejoiced, hoping that now he designed to live.

Butas, after a while, returned, and brought word they were all gone except Crassus, who had
stayed about some business, but was just ready to depart; he said, also, that the wind was
high, and the sea very rough.  Cato, on hearing this, sighed, out of compassion to those who
were at sea, and sent Butas again, to see if any of them should happen to return for anything
they wanted, and to acquaint him therewith.

Now the birds began to sing, and he again fell into a little slumber.  At length Butas came
back, and told him, all was quiet in the port.  Then Cato, laying himself down, as if he would
sleep out the rest of the night, bade him shut the door after him.  But as soon as Butas was
gone out, he took his sword, and stabbed it into his breast; yet not being able to use his
hand so well, on account of the swelling, he did not immediately die of the wound; but struggling,
fell off the bed, and throwing down a little mathematical table that stood by, made such a
noise, that the servants, hearing it, cried out.  And immediately his son and all his friends
came into the chamber, where seeing him lie weltering in his blood, great part of his bowels
out of his body, but himself still alive and able to look at them, they all stood in horror.
The physician went to him, and would have put in his bowels, which were not pierced, and sewed
up the wound; but Cato, recovering himself, and understanding the intention, thrust away the
physician, plucked out his own bowels, and tearing open the wound, immediately expired.

In less time than one would think his own family could have known this accident, all the three
hundred were at the door.  And a little after, the people of Utica flocked thither, crying
out with one voice, he was their benefactor and their savior, the only free and only undefeated
man.  At the very same time, they had news that Caesar was coming; yet neither fear of the
present danger, nor desire to flatter the conqueror, nor the commotions and discord among themselves,
could divert them from doing honor to Cato.  For they sumptuously set out his body, made him
a magnificent funeral, and buried him by the seaside, where now stands his statue, holding
a sword.  And only when this had been done, they returned to consider of preserving themselves
and their city.

Caesar had been informed that Cato stayed at Utica, and did not seek to fly; that he had sent
away the rest of the Romans, but himself, with his son and a few of his friends, continued
there very unconcernedly, so that he could not imagine what might be his design.  But having
a great consideration for the man, he hastened thither with his army.  When he heard of his
death, it is related he said these words, "Cato, I grudge you your death, as you have grudged
me the preservation of your life."  And, indeed, if Cato would have suffered himself to owe
his life to Caesar, he would not so much have impaired his own honor, as augmented the other's
glory.  What would have been done, of course we cannot know, but from Caesar's usual clemency,
we may guess what was most likely.

Cato was forty-eight years old when he died.  His son suffered no injury from Caesar; but,
it is said, he grew idle, and was thought to be dissipated among women.  In Cappadocia, he
stayed at the house of Marphadates, one of the royal family there, who had a very handsome
wife; and continuing his visit longer than was suitable, he made himself the subject of various
epigrams; such as, for example,

Tomorrow, (being the thirtieth day), Cato, 't is thought, will go away;

Porcius and Marphadates, friends so true, One Soul, they say, suffices for the two,

that being the name of the woman, and so again,

To Cato's greatness every one confesses, A royal Soul he certainly possesses.

But all these stains were entirely wiped off by the bravery of his death.  For in the battle
of Philippi, where he fought for his country's liberty against Caesar and Antony, when the
ranks were breaking, he, scorning to fly, or to escape unknown, called out to the enemy, showed
himself to them in the front, and encouraged those of his party who stayed; and at length fell,
and left his enemies full of admiration of his valor.

Nor was the daughter of Cato inferior to the rest of her family, for sober-living and greatness
of spirit.  She was married to Brutus, who killed Caesar; was acquainted with the conspiracy,
and ended her life as became one of her birth and virtue.  All which is related in the life
of Brutus.

Statyllius, who said he would imitate Cato, was at that time hindered by the philosophers,
when he would have put an end to his life.  He afterward followed Brutus, to whom he was very
faithful and very serviceable, and died in the field of Philippi.

AGIS

The fable of Ixion, who, embracing a cloud instead of Juno, begot the Centaurs, has been ingeniously
enough supposed to have been invented to represent to us ambitious men, whose minds, doting
on glory, which is a mere image of virtue, produce nothing that is genuine or uniform, but
only, as might be expected of such a conjunction, misshapen and unnatural actions. Running
after their emulations and passions, and carried away by the impulses of the moment, they may
say with the herdsmen, in the tragedy of Sophocles,

We follow these, though born their rightful lords, And they command us, though they speak no words.

For this is indeed the true condition of men in public life, who, to gain the vain title of
being the people's leaders and governors, are content to make themselves the slaves and followers
of all the people's humors and caprices.  For as the look-out men at the ship's prow, though
they see what is ahead before the men at the helm, yet constantly look back to the pilots there,
and obey the orders they give; so these men steered, as I may say, by popular applause, though
they bear the name of governors, are in reality the mere underlings of the multitude.  The
man who is completely wise and virtuous, has no need at all of glory, except so far as it disposes
and eases his way to action by the greater trust that it procures him.  A young man, I grant,
may be permitted, while yet eager for distinction, to pride himself a little in his good deeds;
for (as Theophrastus says) his virtues, which are yet tender and, as it were, in the blade,
cherished and supported by praises, grow stronger, and take the deeper root.  But when this
passion is exorbitant, it is dangerous in all men, and in those who govern a commonwealth,
utterly destructive.  For in the possession of large power and authority, it transports men
to a degree of madness; so that now they no more think what is good, glorious, but will have
those actions only esteemed good that are glorious.  As Phocion, therefore, answered king Antipater,
who sought his approbation of some unworthy action, "I cannot be your flatterer, and your friend,"
so these men should answer the people, "I cannot govern, and obey you."  For it may happen
to the commonwealth, as to the serpent in the fable, whose tail, rising in rebellion against
the head, complained, as of a great grievance, that it was always forced to follow, and required
that it should be permitted by turns to lead the way.  And taking the command accordingly,
it soon indicted by its senseless courses mischiefs in abundance upon itself, while the head
was torn and lacerated with following, contrary to nature, a guide that was deaf and blind.
And such we see to have been the lot of many, who, submitting to be guided by the inclinations
of an uninformed and unreasoning multitude, could neither stop, nor recover themselves out
of the confusion.

This is what has occurred to us to say, of that glory which depends on the voice of large numbers,
considering the sad effects of it in the misfortunes of Caius and Tiberius Gracchus, men of
noble nature, and whose generous natural dispositions were improved by the best of educations,
and who came to the administration of affairs with the most laudable intentions; yet they were
ruined, I cannot say by an immoderate desire of glory, but by a more excusable fear of disgrace.
For being excessively beloved and favored by the people, they thought it a discredit to them
not to make full repayment, endeavoring by new public acts to outdo the honors they had received,
and again, because of these new kindnesses, incurring yet further distinctions; till the people
and they, mutually inflamed, and vieing thus with each other in honors and benefits, brought
things at last to such a pass, that they might say that to engage so far was indeed a folly,
but to retreat would now be a shame.

This the reader will easily gather from the story.  I will now compare with them two Lacedaemonian
popular leaders, the kings Agis and Cleomenes.  For they, being desirous also to raise the
people, and to restore the noble and just form of government, now long fallen into disuse,
incurred the hatred of the rich and powerful, who could not endure to be deprived of the selfish
enjoyments to which they were accustomed.  These were not indeed brothers by nature, as the
two Romans, but they had a kind of brotherly resemblance in their actions and designs, which
took a rise from such beginnings and occasions as I am now about to relate.

When the love of gold and silver had once gained admittance into the Lacedaemonian commonwealth,
it was quickly followed by avarice and baseness of spirit in the pursuit of it, and by luxury,
effeminacy, and prodigality in the use.  Then Sparta fell from almost all her former virtue
and repute, and so continued till the days of Agis and Leonidas, who both together were kings
of the Lacedaemonians.

Agis was of the royal family of Eurypon, son of Eudamidas, and the sixth in descent from Agesilaus,
who made the expedition into Asia, and was the greatest man of his time in Greece. Agesilaus
left behind him a son called Archidamus, the same who was slain at Mandonium, in Italy, by
the Messapians, and who was then succeeded by his eldest son Agis.  He being killed by Antipater
near Megalopolis, and leaving no issue, was succeeded by his brother Eudamidas; he, by a son
called Archidamus; and Archidamus, by another Eudamidas, the father of this Agis of whom we
now treat.

Leonidas, son of Cleonymus, was of the other royal house of the Agiadae, and the eighth in
descent from Pausanias, who defeated Mardonius in the battle of Plataea.  Pausanias was succeeded
by a son called Plistoanax; and he, by another Pausanias, who was banished, and lived as a
private man at Tegea; while his eldest son Agesipolis reigned in his place.  He, dying without
issue, was succeeded by a younger brother, called Cleombrotus, who left two sons; the elder
was Agesipolis, who reigned but a short time, and died without issue; the younger, who then
became king, was called Cleomenes, and had also two sons, Acrotatus and Cleonymus.  The first
died before his father, but left a son called Areus, who succeeded, and being slain at Corinth,
left the kingdom to his son Acrotatus.  This Acrotatus was defeated, and slain near Megalopolis,
in a battle against the tyrant Aristodemus; he left his wife big with child, and on her being
delivered of a son, Leonidas, son of the above-named Cleonymus, was made his guardian, and
as the young king died before becoming a man, he succeeded in the kingdom.

Leonidas was a king not particularly suitable to his people. For though there were at that
time at Sparta a general decline in manners, yet a greater revolt from the old habits appeared
in him than in others.  For having lived a long time among the great lords of Persia, and been
a follower of king Seleucus, he unadvisedly thought to imitate, among Greek institutions and
in a lawful government, the pride and assumption usual in those courts.  Agis, on the contrary,
in fineness of nature and elevation of mind, not only far excelled Leonidas, but in a manner
all the kings that had reigned since the great Agesilaus. For though he had been bred very
tenderly, in abundance and even in luxury, by his mother Agesistrata and his grandmother Archidamia,
who were the wealthiest of the Lacedaemonians, yet before the age of twenty, he renounced all
indulgence in pleasures.  Withdrawing himself as far as possible from the gaiety and ornament
which seemed becoming to the grace of his person, he made it his pride to appear in the coarse
Spartan coat.  In his meals, his bathings, and in all his exercises, he followed the old Laconian
usage, and was often heard to say, he had no desire for the place of king, if he did not hope
by means of that authority to restore their ancient laws and discipline.

The Lacedaemonians might date the beginning of their corruption from their conquest of Athens,
and the influx of gold and silver among them that thence ensued.  Yet, nevertheless, the number
of houses which Lycurgus appointed being still maintained, and the law remaining in force by
which everyone was obliged to leave his lot or portion of land entirely to his son, a kind
of order and equality was thereby preserved, which still in some degree sustained the state
amidst its errors in other respects.  But one Epitadeus happening to be ephor, a man of great
influence, and of a willful, violent spirit, on some occasion of a quarrel with his son, proposed
a decree, that all men should have liberty to dispose of their land by gift in their lifetime,
or by their last will and testament.  This being promoted by him to satisfy a passion of revenge,
and through covetousness consented to by others, and thus enacted for a law, was the ruin of
the best state of the commonwealth.  For the rich men without scruple drew the estates into
their own hands, excluding the rightful heirs from their succession; and all the wealth being
centered upon a few, the generality were poor and miserable. Honorable pursuits, for which
there was no longer leisure, were neglected; and the state was filled with sordid business,
and with hatred and envy of the rich.  There did not remain above seven hundred of the old
Spartan families, of which perhaps one hundred might have estates in land, the rest were destitute
alike of wealth and of honor, were tardy and unperforming in the defense of their country against
its enemies abroad, and eagerly watched the opportunity for change and revolution at home.

Agis, therefore, believing it a glorious action, as in truth it was, to equalize and repeople
the state, began to sound the inclinations of the citizens.  He found the young men disposed
beyond his expectation; they were eager to enter with him upon the contest in the cause of
virtue, and to fling aside, for freedom's sake, their old manner of life, as readily as the
wrestler does his garment.  But the old men, habituated and more confirmed in their vices,
were most of them as alarmed at the very name of Lycurgus, as a fugitive slave to be brought
back before his offended master.  These men could not endure to hear Agis continually deploring
the present state of Sparta, and wishing she might be restored to her ancient glory.  But on
the other side, Lysander, the son of Libys, Mandroclidas, the son of Ecphanes, together with
Agesilaus, not only approved his design, but assisted and confirmed him in it.  Lysander had
a great authority and credit with the people; Mandroclidas was esteemed the ablest Greek of
his time to manage an affair and put it in train, and, joined with skill and cunning, had a
great degree of boldness.  Agesilaus was the king's uncle, by the mother's side; an eloquent
man, but covetous and voluptuous, who was not moved by considerations of public good, but rather
seemed to be persuaded to it by his son Hippomedon, whose courage and signal actions in war
had gained him a high esteem and great influence among the young men of Sparta, though indeed
the true motive was, that he had many debts, and hoped by this means to be freed from them.

As soon as Agis had prevailed with his uncle, he endeavored by his mediation to gain his mother
also, who had many friends and followers, and a number of persons in her debt in the city,
and took a considerable part in public affairs.  At the first proposal, she was very averse,
and strongly advised her son not to engage in so difficult and so unprofitable an enterprise.
But Agesilaus endeavored to possess her, that the thing was not so difficult as she imagined,
and that it might, in all likelihood, redound to the advantage of her family; while the king,
her son, besought her not for money's sake to decline assisting his hopes of glory.  He told
her, he could not pretend to equal other kings in riches, the very followers and menials of
the satraps and stewards of Seleucus or Ptolemy abounding more in wealth than all the Spartan
kings put together; but if by contempt of wealth and pleasure, by simplicity and magnanimity,
he could surpass their luxury and abundance, if he could restore their former equality to the
Spartans, then he should be a great king indeed.  In conclusion, the mother and the grandmother
also were so taken, so carried away with the inspiration, as it were, of the young man's noble
and generous ambition, that they not only consented, but were ready on an occasions to spur
him on to a perseverance, and not only sent to speak on his behalf with the men with whom they
had an interest, but addressed the other women also, knowing well that the Lacedaemonian wives
had always a great power with their husbands, who used to impart to them their state affairs
with greater freedom than the women would communicate with the men in the private business
of their families.  Which was indeed one of the greatest obstacles to this design; for the
money of Sparta being most of it in the women's hands, it was their interest to oppose it,
not only as depriving them of those superfluous trifles, in which through want of better knowledge
and experience, they placed their chief felicity, but also because they knew their riches were
the main support of their power and credit.

Those, therefore, who were of this faction, had recourse to Leonidas, representing to him,
how it was his part, as the elder and more experienced, to put a stop to the ill-advised projects
of a rash young man.  Leonidas, though of himself sufficiently inclined to oppose Agis, durst
not openly, for fear of the people, who were manifestly desirous of this change; but underhand
he did all he could to discredit and thwart the project, and to prejudice the chief magistrates
against him, and on all occasions craftily insinuated, that it was as the price of letting
him usurp arbitrary power, that Agis thus proposed to divide the property of the rich among
the poor, and that the object of these measures for canceling debts, and dividing the lands,
was, not to furnish Sparta with citizens, but purchase him a tyrant's body-guard.

Agis, nevertheless, little regarding these rumors, procured Lysander's election as ephor; and
then took the first occasion of proposing through him his Rhetra to the council, the chief
articles of which were these: That every one should be free from their debts; all the lands
to be divided into equal portions, those that lay betwixt the watercourse near Pellene and
Mount Taygetus, and as far as the cities of Malea and Sellasia, into four thousand five hundred
lots, the remainder into fifteen thousand; these last to be shared out among those of the country
people who were fit for service as heavy-armed soldiers, the first among the natural born Spartans;
and their number also should be supplied from any among the country people or strangers who
had received the proper breeding of freemen, and were of vigorous, body and of age for military
service.  All these were to be divided into fifteen companies, some of four hundred, and some
of two, with a diet and discipline agreeable to the laws of Lycurgus.

This decree being proposed in the council of Elders, met there with opposition; so that Lysander
immediately convoked the great assembly of the people, to whom he, Mandroclidas, and Agesilaus
made orations, exhorting them that they would not suffer the majesty of Sparta to remain abandoned
to contempt, to gratify a few rich men, who lorded it over them; but that they should call
to mind the oracles in old time which had forewarned them to beware of the love of money, as
the great danger and probable ruin of Sparta, and, moreover, those recently brought from the
temple of Pasiphae.  This was a famous temple and oracle at Thalamae; and this Pasiphae, some
say, was one of the daughters of Atlas, who had by Jupiter a son called Ammon; others are of
opinion it was Cassandra, the daughter of king Priam, who, dying in this place, was called
Pasiphae, as the revealer of oracles to all men. Phylarchus says, that this was Daphne, the
daughter of Amyclas, who, flying from Apollo, was transformed into a laurel, and honored by
that god with the gift of prophecy.  But be it as it will, it is certain the people were made
to apprehend, that this oracle had commanded them to return to their former state of equality
settled by Lycurgus.  As soon as these had done speaking, Agis stood up, and after a few words,
told them he would make the best contribution in his power to the new legislation, which was
proposed for their advantage.  In the first place, he would divide among them all his patrimony,
which was of large extent in tillage and pasture; he would also give six hundred talents in
ready money, and his mother, grandmother, and his other friends and relations, who were the
richest of the Lacedaemonians, were ready to follow his example.

The people were transported with admiration of the young man's generosity, and with joy, that
after three hundred years' interval, at last there had appeared a king worthy of Sparta. But,
on the other side, Leonidas was now more than ever averse, being sensible that he and his friends
would be obliged to contribute with their riches, and yet all the honor and obligation would
redound to Agis.  He asked him then before them all, whether Lycurgus were not in his opinion
a wise man, and a lover of his country.  Agis answering he was, "And when did Lycurgus," replied
Leonidas, "cancel debts, or admit strangers to citizenship, -- he who thought the commonwealth
not secure unless from time to time the city was cleared of all strangers?"  To this Agis replied,
"It is no wonder that Leonidas, who was brought up and married abroad, and has children by
a wife taken out of a Persian court, should know little of Lycurgus or his laws.  Lycurgus
took away both debts and loans, by taking away money; and objected indeed to the presence of
men who were foreign to the manners and customs of the country, not in any case from an ill-will
to their persons, but lest the example of their lives and conduct should infect the city with
the love of riches, and of delicate and luxurious habits.  For it is well known that he himself
gladly kept Terpander, Thales, and Pherecycles, though they were strangers, because he perceived
they were in their poems and in their philosophy of the same mind with him.  And you that are
wont to praise Ecprepes, who, being ephor, cut with his hatchet two of the nine strings from
the instrument of Phrynis, the musician, and to commend those who afterwards imitated him,
in cutting the strings of Timotheus's harp, with what face can you blame us, for designing
to cut off superfluity and luxury and display from the commonwealth?  Do you think those men
were so concerned only about a lute-string, or intended anything else than to check in music
that same excess and extravagance which rule in our present lives and manners, and have disturbed
and destroyed all the harmony and order of our city?"

From this time forward, as the common people followed Agis, so the rich men adhered to Leonidas.
They be sought him not to forsake their cause; and with persuasions and entreaties so far prevailed
with the council of Elders, whose power consisted in preparing all laws before they were proposed
to the people, that the designed Rhetra was rejected, though but by only one vote. Whereupon
Lysander, who was still ephor, resolving to be revenged on Leonidas, drew up an information
against him, grounded on two old laws: the one forbids any of the blood of Hercules to raise
up children by a foreign woman, and the other makes it capital for a Lacedaemonian to leave
his country to settle among foreigners.  Whilst he set others on to manage this accusation,
he with his colleagues went to observe the sign, which was a custom they had, and performed
in this manner. Every ninth year, the ephors, choosing a starlight night, when there is neither
cloud nor moon, sit down together in quiet and silence, and watch the sky.  And if they chance
to see the shooting of a star, they presently pronounce their king guilty of some offense against
the gods, and thereupon he is immediately suspended from all exercise of regal power, till
he is relieved by an oracle from Delphi or Olympia.

Lysander, therefore, assured the people, he had seen a star shoot, and at the same time Leonidas
was cited to answer for himself.  Witnesses were produced to testify he had married an Asian
woman, bestowed on him by one of king Seleucus's lieutenants; that he had two children by her,
but she so disliked and hated him, that, against his wishes, flying from her, he was in a manner
forced to return to Sparta, where, his predecessor dying without issue, he took upon him the
government.  Lysander, not content with this, persuaded also Cleombrotus to lay claim to the
kingdom.  He was of the royal family, and son-in-law to Leonidas; who, fearing now the event
of this process, fled as a suppliant to the temple of Minerva of the Brazen House, together
with his daughter, the wife of Cleombrotus; for she in this occasion resolved to leave her
husband, and to follow her father.  Leonidas being again cited, and not appearing, they pronounced
a sentence of deposition against him, and made Cleombrotus king in his place.

Soon after this revolution, Lysander, his year expiring, went out of his office, and new ephors
were chosen, who gave Leonidas assurance of safety, and cited Lysander and Mandroclidas to
answer for having, contrary to law, canceled debts, and designed a new division of lands. 
They, seeing themselves in danger, had recourse to the two kings, and represented to them,
how necessary it was for their interest and safety to act with united authority and bid defiance
to the ephors.  For, indeed, the power of the ephors, they said, was only grounded on the dissensions
of the kings, it being their privilege, when the kings differed in opinion, to add their suffrage
to whichever they judged to have given the best advice; but when the two kings were unanimous,
none ought or durst resist their authority, the magistrate, whose office it was to stand as
umpire when they were at variance, had no call to interfere when they were of one mind.  Agis
and Cleombrotus, thus persuaded, went together with their friends into the market-place, where,
removing the ephors from their seats, they placed others in their room of whom Agesilaus was
one; proceeding then to arm a company of young men, and releasing many out of prison; so that
those of the contrary faction began to be in great fear of their lives; but there was no blood
spilt.  On the contrary, Agis, having notice that Agesilaus had ordered a company of soldiers
to lie in wait for Leonidas, to kill him as he fled to Tegea, immediately sent some of his
followers to defend him, and to convey him safely into that city.

Thus far all things proceeded prosperously, none daring to oppose; but through the sordid weakness
of one man these promising beginnings were blasted, and a most noble and truly Spartan purpose
overthrown and ruined, by the love of money. Agesilaus, as we said, was much in debt, though
in possession of one of the largest and best estates in land; and while he gladly joined in
this design to be quit of his debts, he was not at all willing to part with his land.  Therefore
he persuaded Agis, that if both these things should be put in execution at the same time, so
great and so sudden an alteration might cause some dangerous commotion; but if debts were in
the first place canceled, the rich men would afterwards more easily be prevailed with to part
with their land.  Lysander, also, was of the same opinion, being deceived in like manner by
the craft of Agesilaus; so that all men were presently commanded to bring in their bonds, or
deeds of obligation, by the Lacedaemonians called Claria, into the market-place, where being
laid together in a heap, they set fire to them.  The wealthy, money-lending people, one may
easily imagine, beheld it with a heavy heart; but Agesilaus told them scoffingly, his eyes
had never seen so bright and so pure a flame.

And now the people pressed earnestly for an immediate division of lands; the kings also had
ordered it should be done; but Agesilaus, sometimes pretending one difficulty, and sometimes
another, delayed the execution, till an occasion happened to call Agis to the wars.  The Achaeans,
in virtue of a defensive treaty of alliance, sent to demand succors, as they expected every
day that the Aetolians would attempt to enter Peloponnesus, from the territory of Megara. 
They had sent Aratus, their general, to collect forces to hinder this incursion.  Aratus wrote
to the ephors, who immediately gave order that Agis should hasten to their assistance with
the Lacedaemonian auxiliaries.  Agis was extremely pleased to see the zeal and bravery of those
who went with him upon this expedition.  They were for the most part young men, and poor; and
being just released from their debts and set at liberty, and hoping on their return to receive
each man his lot of land, they followed their king with wonderful alacrity.  The cities through
which they passed, were in admiration to see how they marched from one end of Peloponnesus
to the other, without the least disorder, and, in a manner, without being heard.  It gave the
Greeks occasion to discourse with one another, how great might be the temperance and modesty
of a Laconian army in old time, under their famous captains Agesilaus, Lysander, or Leonidas,
since they saw such discipline and exact obedience under a leader who perhaps was the youngest
man all the army.  They saw also how he was himself content to fare hardly, ready to undergo
any labors, and not to be distinguished by pomp or richness of habit or arms from the meanest
of his soldiers; and to people in general it was an object of regard and admiration.  But rich
men viewed the innovation with dislike and alarm, lest haply the example might spread, and
work changes to their prejudice in their own countries as well.

Agis joined Aratus near the city of Corinth, where it was still a matter of debate whether
or no it were expedient to give the enemy battle.  Agis, on this occasion, showed great forwardness
and resolution, yet without temerity or presumption.  He declared it was his opinion they ought
to fight, thereby to hinder the enemy from passing the gates of Peloponnesus, but, nevertheless,
he would submit to the judgment of Aratus, not only as the elder and more experienced captain,
but as he was general of the Achaeans, whose forces he would not pretend to command, but was
only come thither to assist them.  I am not ignorant that Baton of Sinope, relates it in another
manner; he says, Aratus would have fought, and that Agis was against it; but it is certain
he was mistaken, not having read what Aratus himself wrote in his own justification, that knowing
the people had wellnigh got in their harvest, he thought it much better to let the enemy pass,
than put all to the hazard of a battle.  And therefore, giving thanks to the confederates for
their readiness, he dismissed them.  And Agis, not without having gained a great deal of honor,
returned to Sparta, where he found the people in disorder, and a new revolution imminent, owing
to the ill government of Agesilaus.

For he, being now one of the ephors, and freed from the fear which formerly kept him in some
restraint, forbore no kind of oppression which might bring in gain.  Among other things, he
exacted a thirteenth month's tax, whereas the usual cycle required at this time no such addition
to the year.  For these and other reasons fearing those whom he injured, and knowing how he
was hated by the people, he thought it necessary to maintain a guard, which always accompanied
him to the magistrate's office.  And presuming now on his power, he was grown so insolent,
that of the two kings, the one he openly contemned, and if he showed any respect towards Agis,
would have it thought rather an effect of his near relationship, than any duty or submission
to the royal authority.  He gave it out also, that he was to continue ephor the ensuing year.

His enemies, therefore, alarmed by this report, lost no time in risking an attempt against
him; and openly bringing hack Leonidas from Tegea, reestablished him in the kingdom, to which
even the people, highly incensed for having been defrauded in the promised division of lands,
willingly consented.  Agesilaus himself would hardly have escaped their fury, if his son, Hippomedon,
whose manly virtues made him dear to all, had not saved him out of their hands, and then privately
conveyed him from the city.

During this commotion, the two kings fled, Agis to the temple of the Brazen House, and Cleombrotus
to that of Neptune.  For Leonidas was more incensed against his son-in-law; and leaving Agis
alone, went with his soldiers to Cleombrotus's sanctuary, and there with great passion reproached
him for having, though he was his son-in-law, conspired with his enemies, usurped his throne,
and forced him from his country.  Cleombrotus, having little to say for himself, sat silent.
His wife, Chilonis, the daughter of Leonidas, had chosen to follow her father in his sufferings;
for when Cleombrotus usurped the kingdom, she forsook him, and wholly devoted herself to comfort
her father in his affliction; whilst he still remained in Sparta, she remained also, as a suppliant,
with him, and when he fled, she fled with him, bewailing his misfortune, and extremely displeased
with Cleombrotus.  But now, upon this turn of fortune, she changed in like manner, and was
seen sitting now, as a suppliant, with her husband, embracing him with her arms, and having
her two little children beside her.  All men were full of wonder at the piety and tender affection
of the young woman, who, pointing to her robes and her hair, both alike neglected and unattended
to, said to Leonidas, "I am not brought, my father, to this condition you see me in, on account
of the present misfortunes of Cleombrotus; my mourning habit is long since familiar to me.
It was put on to condole with you in your banishment; and now you are restored to your country,
and to your kingdom, must I still remain in grief and misery?  Or would you have me attired
in my royal ornaments, that I may rejoice with you, when you have killed, within my arms, the
man to whom you gave me for a wife?  Either Cleombrotus must appease you by mine and my children's
tears, or he must suffer a punishment greater than you propose for his faults, and shall see
me, whom he loves so well, die before him. To what end should I live, or how shall I appear
among the Spartan women, when it shall so manifestly be seen, that I have not been able to
move to compassion either a husband or a father?  I was born, it seems, to participate in the
ill fortune and in the disgrace, both as a wife and a daughter, of those nearest and dearest
to me.  As for Cleombrotus, I sufficiently surrendered any honorable plea on his behalf, when
I forsook him to follow you; but you yourself offer the fairest excuse for his proceedings,
by showing to the world that for the sake of a kingdom, it is just to kill a son-in-law, and
be regardless of a daughter."  Chilonis, having ended this lamentation, rested her face on
her husband's head, and looked round with her weeping and woebegone eyes upon those who stood
be fore her.

Leonidas, touched with compassion, withdrew a while to advise with his friends; then returning,
bade Cleombrotus leave the sanctuary and go into banishment; Chilonis, he said, ought to stay
with him, it not being just she should forsake a father whose affection had granted to her
intercession the life of her husband.  But all he could say would not prevail.  She rose up
immediately, and taking one of her children in her arms, gave the other to her husband; and
making her reverence to the altar of the goddess, went out and followed him.  So that, in a
word, if Cleombrotus were not utterly blinded by ambition, he must surely choose to be banished
with so excellent a woman rather than without her to possess a kingdom.

Cleombrotus thus removed, Leonidas proceeded also to displace the ephors, and to choose others
in their room; then he began to consider how he might entrap Agis.  At first, he endeavored
by fair means to persuade him to leave the sanctuary, and partake with him in the kingdom.
The people, he said, would easily pardon the errors of a young man, ambitious of glory, and
deceived by the craft of Agesilaus.  But finding Agis was suspicious, and not to be prevailed
with to quit his sanctuary, he gave up that design; yet what could not then be effected by
the dissimulation of an enemy, was soon after brought to pass by the treachery of friends.

Amphares, Damochares, and Arcesilaus often visited Agis, and he was so confident of their fidelity
that after a while he was prevailed with to accompany them to the baths, which were not far
distant, they constantly returning to see him safe again in the temple.  They were all three
his familiars; and Amphares had borrowed a great deal of plate and rich household stuff from
Agesistrata, and hoped if he could destroy her and the whole family, he might peaceably enjoy
those goods.  And he, it is said, was the readiest of all to serve the purposes of Leonidas,
and being one of the ephors, did all he could to incense the rest of his colleagues against
Agis.  These men, therefore, finding that Agis would not quit his sanctuary, but on occasion
would venture from it to go to the bath, resolved to seize him on the opportunity thus given
them.  And one day as he was returning, they met and saluted him as formerly, conversing pleasantly
by the way, and jesting, as youthful friends might, till coming to the turning of a street
which led to the prison, Amphares, by virtue of his office, laid his hand on Agis, and told
him, "You must go with me, Agis, before the other ephors, to answer for your misdemeanors."
At the same time, Damochares, who was a tall, strong man, drew his cloak tight round his neck,
and dragged him after by it, whilst the others went behind to thrust him on.  So that none
of Agis's friends being near to assist him, nor anyone by, they easily got him into the prison,
where Leonidas was already arrived, with a company of soldiers, who strongly guarded all the
avenues; the ephors also came in, with as many of the Elders as they knew to be true to their
party, being desirous to proceed with some resemblance of justice.  And thus they bade him
give an account of his actions. To which Agis, smiling at their dissimulation, answered not
a word.  Amphares told him, it was more seasonable to weep, for now the time was come in which
he should be punished for his presumption.  Another of the ephors, as though he would be more
favorable, and offering as it were an excuse, asked him whether he was not forced to what he
did by Agesilaus and Lysander.  But Agis answered, he had not been constrained by any man,
nor had any other intent in what he did, but only to follow the example of Lycurgus, and to
govern conformably to his laws.  The same ephor asked him, whether now at least he did not
repent his rashness.  To which the young man answered, that though he were to suffer the extremest
penalty for it, yet he could never repent of so just and so glorious a design.  Upon this they
passed sentence of death on him, and bade the officers carry him to the Dechas, as it is called,
a place in the prison where they strangle malefactors.  And when the officers would not venture
to lay hands on him, and the very mercenary soldiers declined it, believing it an illegal and
a wicked act to lay violent hands on a king, Damochares, threatening and reviling them for
it, himself thrust him into the room.

For by this time the news of his being seized had reached many parts of the city, and there
was a concourse of people with lights and torches about the prison gates, and in the midst
of them the mother and the grandmother of Agis, crying out with a loud voice, that their king
ought to appear, and to be heard and judged by the people.  But this clamor, instead of preventing,
hastened his death; his enemies fearing, if the tumult should increase, he might be rescued
during the night out of their hands.

Agis, being now at the point to die, perceived one of the officers bitterly bewailing his misfortune;
"Weep not, friend," said he, "for me, who die innocent, by the lawless act of wicked men. 
My condition is much better than theirs."  As soon as he had spoken these words, not showing
the least sign of fear, he offered his neck to the noose.

Immediately after he was dead, Amphares went out of the prison gate, where he found Agesistrata,
who, believing him still the same friend as before, threw herself at his feet.  He gently raised
her up, and assured her, she need not fear any further violence or danger of death for her
son, and that if she pleased, she might go in and see him.  She begged her mother might also
have the favor to be admitted, and he replied, nobody should hinder it.  When they were entered,
he commanded the gate should again be locked, and Archidamia, the grandmother, to be first
introduced; she was now grown very old, and had lived all her days in the highest repute among
her fellows.  As soon as Amphares thought she was dispatched, he told Agesistrata she might
now go in if she pleased.  She entered, and beholding her son's body stretched on the ground,
and her mother hanging by the neck, the first thing she did was, with her own hands, to assist
the officers in taking down the body; then covering it decently, she laid it out by her son's,
whom then embracing, and kissing his cheeks, "O my son," said she, "it was thy too great mercy
and goodness which brought thee and us to ruin." Amphares, who stood watching behind the door,
on hearing this, broke in, and said angrily to her, " Since you approve so well of your son's
actions, it is fit you should partake in his reward."  She, rising up to offer herself to the
noose, said only, "I pray that it may redound to the good of Sparta."

And now the three bodies being exposed to view, and the fact divulged, no fear was strong enough
to hinder the people from expressing their abhorrence of what was done, and their detestation
of Leonidas and Amphares, the contrivers of it.  So wicked and barbarous an act had never been
committed in Sparta, since first the Dorians inhabited Peloponnesus; the very enemies in war,
they said, were always cautious of spilling the blood of a Lacedaemonian king, insomuch that
in any combat they would decline, and endeavor to avoid them, from feelings of respect and
reverence for their station.  And certainly we see that in the many battles fought betwixt
the Lacedaemonians and the other Greeks, up to the time of Philip of Macedon, not one of their
kings was ever killed, except Cleombrotus, by a javelin-wound, at the battle of Leuctra.  I
am not ignorant that the Messenians affirm, Theopompus was also slain by their Aristomenes;
but the Lacedaemonians deny it, and say he was only wounded.

Be it as it will, it is certain at least that Agis was the first king put to death in Lacedaemon
by the ephors, for having undertaken a design noble in itself and worthy of his country, at
a time of life when men's errors usually meet with an easy pardon.  And if errors he did commit,
his enemies certainly had less reason to blame him, than had his friends for that gentle and
compassionate temper which made him save the life of Leonidas, and believe in other men's professions.

CLEOMENES

Thus fell Agis.  His brother Archidamus was too quick for Leonidas, and saved himself by a
timely retreat.  But his wife, then mother of a young child, he forced from her own house,
and compelled Agiatis, for that was her name, to marry his son Cleomenes, though at that time
too young for a wife, because he was unwilling that anyone else should have her, being heiress
to her father Glylippus's great estate; in person the most youthful and beautiful woman in
all Greece, and well-conducted in her habits of life.  And therefore, they say, she did all
she could that she might not be compelled to this new marriage.  But being thus united to Cleomenes,
she indeed hated Leonidas, but to the youth showed herself a kind and obliging wife.  He, as
soon as they came together, began to love her very much, and the constant kindness that she
still retained for the memory of Agis, wrought somewhat of the like feeling in the young man
for him, so that he would often inquire of her concerning what had passed, and attentively
listen to the story of Agis's purpose and design.  Now Cleomenes had a generous and great soul;
he was as temperate and moderate in his pleasures as Agis, but not so scrupulous, circumspect,
and gentle.  There was something of heat and passion always goading him on, and an impetuosity
and violence in his eagerness to pursue anything which he thought good and just.  To have men
obey him of their own freewill, he conceived to be the best discipline; but, likewise, to subdue
resistance, and force them to the better course, was, in his opinion, commendable and brave.

This disposition made him dislike the management of the city. The citizens lay dissolved in
supine idleness and pleasures; the king let everything take its own way, thankful if nobody
gave him any disturbance, nor called him away from the enjoyment of his wealth and luxury.
The public interest was neglected, and each man intent upon his private gain.  It was dangerous,
now Agis was killed, so much as to name such a thing as the exercising and training of their
youth; and to speak of the ancient temperance, endurance, and equality, was a sort of treason
against the state.  It is said also that Cleomenes, whilst a boy, studied philosophy under
Sphaerus, the Borysthenite, who crossed over to Sparta, and spent some time and trouble in
instructing the youth.  Sphaerus was one of the first of Zeno the Citiean's scholars, and it
is likely enough that he admired the manly temper of Cleomenes and inflamed his generous ambition.
The ancient Leonidas, as story tells, being asked what manner of poet he thought Tyrtaeus,
replied, "Good to whet young men's courage;" for being filled with a divine fury by his poems,
they rushed into any danger.  And so the stoic philosophy is a dangerous incentive to strong
and fiery dispositions, but where it combines with a grave and gentle temper, is most successful
in leading it to its proper good.

Upon the death of his father Leonidas, he succeeded, and observing the citizens of all sorts
to be debauched, the rich neglecting the public good, and intent on their private gain and
pleasure, and the poor distressed in their own homes, and therefore without either spirit for
war or ambition to be trained up as Spartans, that he had only the name of king, and the ephors
all the power, he was resolved to change the present posture of affairs.  He had a friend whose
name was Xenares, his lover, (such an affection the Spartans express by the term, being inspired,
or imbreathed with); him he sounded, and of him he would commonly inquire what manner of king
Agis was, by what means and by what assistance he began and pursued his designs.  Xenares,
at first, willingly compiled with his request, and told him the whole story, with all the particular
circumstances of the actions.  But when he observed Cleomenes to be extremely affected at the
relation, and more than ordinarily taken with Agis's new model of the government, and begging
a repetition of the story, he at first severely chid him, told him he was frantic, and at last
left off all sort of familiarity and intercourse with him, yet he never told any man the cause
of their disagreement, but would only say, Cleomenes knew very well.  Cleomenes, finding Xenares
averse to his designs, and thinking all others to be of the same disposition, consulted with
none, but contrived the whole business by himself.  And considering that it would be easier
to bring about an alteration when the city was at war, than when in peace, he engaged the commonwealth
in a quarrel with the Achaeans, who had given them fair occasions to complain.  For Aratus,
a man of the greatest power amongst all the Achaeans, designed from the very beginning to bring
all the Peloponnesians into one common body.  And to effect this was the one object of all
his many commanderships and his long political course; as he thought this the only means to
make them a match for their foreign enemies.  Pretty nearly all the rest agreed to his proposals,
only the Lacedaemonians, the Eleans, and as many of the Arcadians as inclined to the Spartan
interest, remained unpersuaded.  And so as soon as Leonidas was dead, he began to attack the
Arcadians, and wasted those especially that bordered on Achaea, by this means designing to
try the inclinations of the Spartans, and despising Cleomenes as a youth, and of no experience
in affairs of state or war.  Upon this, the ephors sent Cleomenes to surprise the Athenaeum,
near Belbina, which is a pass commanding an entrance into Laconia and was then the subject
of litigation with the Megalopolitans.  Cleomenes possessed himself of the place, and fortified
it, at which action Aratus showed no public resentment, but marched by night to surprise Tegea
and Orchormenus.  The design failed, for those that were to betray the cities into his hands,
turned afraid; so Aratus retreated, imagining that his design had been undiscovered. But Cleomenes
wrote a sarcastic letter to him, and desired to know, as from a friend, whither he intended
to march at night; and Aratus answering, that having heard of his design to fortify Belbina,
he meant to march thither to oppose him, Cleomenes rejoined, that he did not dispute it, but
begged to be informed, if he might be allowed to ask the question, why he carried those torches
and ladders with him.

Aratus laughing at the jest, and asking what manner of youth this was, Damocrates, a Spartan
exile, replied, "If you have any designs upon the Lacedaemonians, begin before this young eagle's
talons are grown."  Presently after this, Cleomenes, encamping in Arcadia with a few horse
and three hundred foot, received orders from the ephors, who feared to engage in the war, commanding
him home; but when upon his retreat Aratus took Caphyae, they commissioned him again.  In this
expedition he took Methydrium, and overran the country of the Argives; and the Achaeans, to
oppose him, came out with an army of twenty thousand foot and one thousand horse, under the
command of Aristomachus.  Cleomenes faced them at Pallantium, and offered battle, but Aratus,
being cowed by his bravery, would not suffer the general to engage, but retreated, amidst the
reproaches of the Achaeans, and the derision and scorn of the Spartans, who were not above
five thousand.  Cleomenes, encouraged by this success, began to speak boldly among the citizens,
and reminding them of a sentence of one of their ancient kings, said, it was in vain now that
the Spartans asked, not how many their enemies were, but where they were. After this, marching
to the assistance of the Eleans, whom the Achaeans were attacking, falling upon the enemy in
their retreat near the Lycaeum, he put their whole army to flight, taking a great number of
captives, and leaving many dead upon the place; so that it was commonly reported amongst the
Greeks that Aratus was slain.  But Aratus, making the best advantage of the opportunity, immediately
after the defeat marched to Mantinea, and before anybody suspected it, took the city, and put
a garrison into it.  Upon this, the Lacedaemonians being quite discouraged, and opposing Cleomenes's
designs of carrying on the war, he now exerted himself to have Archidamus, the brother of Agis,
sent for from Messene, as he, of the other family, had a right to the kingdom ; and besides,
Cleomenes thought that the power of the ephors would be reduced, when the kingly state was
thus filled up, and raised to its proper position. But those that were concerned in the murder
of Agis, perceiving the design, and fearing that upon Archidamus's return they should be called
to an account, received him on his coming privately into town, and joined in bringing him home,
and presently after murdered him.  Whether Cleomenes was against it, as Phylarchus thinks,
or whether he was persuaded by his friends, or let him fall into their hands, is uncertain;
however, they were most blamed, as having forced his consent.

He, still resolving to new model the state, bribed the ephors to send him out to war; and won
the affections of many others by means of his mother Cratesiclea, who spared no cost and was
very zealous to promote her son's ambition; and though of herself she had no inclination to
marry, yet for his sake, she accepted, as her husband, one of the chiefest citizens for wealth
and power.  Cleomenes, marching forth with the army now under his commend, took Leuctra, a
place belonging to Megalopolis; and the Achaeans quickly coming up to resist him with a good
body of men commanded by Aratus, in a battle under the very walls of the city some part of
his army was routed.  But whereas Aratus had commanded the Achaeans not to pass a deep watercourse,
and thus put a stop to the pursuit, Lydiadas, the Megalopolitan, fretting at the orders, and
encouraging the horse which he led, and following the routed enemy, got into a place full of
vines, hedges, and ditches; and being forced to break his ranks, began to retire in disorder.
Cleomenes, observing the advantage, commanded the Tarentines and Cretans to engage him, by
whom, after a brave defense, he was routed and slain.  The Lacedaemonians, thus encouraged,
fell with a great shout upon the Achaeans, and routed their whole army.  Of the slain, who
were very many, the rest Cleomenes delivered up, when the enemy petitioned for them; but the
body of Lydiadas he commanded to be brought to him; and then putting on it a purple robe, and
a crown upon its head, sent a convoy with it to the gates of Megalopolis.  This is that Lydiadas
who resigned his power as tyrant, restored liberty to the citizens, and joined the city to
the Achaean interest.

Cleomenes, being very much elated by this success, and persuaded that if matters were wholly
at his disposal, he should soon be too hard for the Achaeans, persuaded Megistonus, his mother's
husband, that it was expedient for the state to shake off the power of the ephors, and to put
all their wealth into one common stock for the whole body; thus Sparta, being restored to its
old equality, might aspire again to the command of all Greece.  Megistonus liked the design,
and engaged two or three more of his friends.  About that time, one of the ephors, sleeping
in Pasiphae's temple, dreamed a very surprising dream; for he thought he saw the four chairs
removed out of the place where the ephors used to sit and do the business of their office,
and one only set there; and whilst he wondered, he heard a voice out of the temple, saying,
"This is best for Sparta."  The person telling Cleomenes this dream, he was a little troubled
at first, fearing that he used this as a trick to sift him, upon some suspicion of his design,
but when he was satisfied that the relater spoke truth, he took heart again.  And carrying
with him those whom he thought would be most against his project, he took Heraea and Alsaea,
two towns in league with the Achaeans, furnished Orchomenus with provisions, encamped before
Mantinea, and with long marches up and down so harassed the Lacedaemonians, that many of them
at their own request were left behind in Arcadia, while he with the mercenaries went on toward
Sparta, and by the way communicated his design to those whom he thought fittest for his purpose,
and marched slowly, that he might catch the ephors at supper.

When he was come near the city, he sent Euryclidas to the public table, where the ephors supped,
under pretense of carrying some message from him from the army; Therycion, Phoebis, and two
of those who had been bred up with Cleomenes, whom they call mothaces, followed with a few
soldiers; and whilst Euryclidas was delivering his message to the ephors, they ran upon them
with their drawn swords, and slew them.  The first of them, Agylaeus, on receiving the blow,
fell and lay as dead; but in a little time quietly raising himself, and drawing himself out
of the room, he crept, without being discovered, into a little building which was dedicated
to Fear, and which always used to be shut, but then by chance was open; and being got in, he
shut the door, and lay close.  The other four were killed, and above ten more that came to
their assistance; to those that were quiet they did no harm, stopped none that fled from the
city, and spared Agylaeus, when he came out of the temple the next day.

The Lacedaemonians have not only sacred places dedicated to Fear, but also to Death, Laughter,
and the like Passions. Now they worship Fear, not as they do supernatural powers which they
dread, esteeming it hurtful, but thinking their polity is chiefly kept up by fear.  And therefore,
the ephors, Aristotle is my author, when they entered upon their government, made proclamation
to the people, that they should shave their mustaches, and be obedient to the laws, that the
laws might not be hard upon them, making, I suppose, this trivial injunction, to accustom their
youth to obedience even in the smallest matters.  And the ancients, I think, did not imagine
bravery to be plain fearlessness, but a cautious fear of blame and disgrace.  For those that
show most timidity towards the laws, are most bold against their enemies; and those are least
afraid of any danger who are most afraid of a just reproach.  Therefore it was well said that

A reverence still attends on fear;

and by Homer,

Feared you shall be, dear father, and revered;

and again,

In silence fearing those that bore the sway;

for the generality of men are most ready to reverence those whom they fear.  And, therefore,
the Lacedaemonians placed the temple of Fear by the Syssitium of the ephors, having raised
that magistracy to almost royal authority.

The next day, Cleomenes proscribed eighty of the citizens, whom he thought necessary to banish,
and removed all the seats of the ephors, except one, in which he himself designed to sit and
give audience; and calling the citizens together, he made an apology for his proceedings, saying,
that by Lycurgus the council of Elders was joined to the kings, and that that model of government
had continued a long time, and no other sort of magistrates had been wanted.  But afterwards,
in the long war with the Messenians, when the kings, having to command the army, found no time
to administer justice, they chose some of their friends, and left them to determine the suits
of the citizens in their stead.  These were called ephors, and at first behaved themselves
as servants to the kings; but afterwards, by degrees, they appropriated the power to themselves
and erected a distinct magistracy.  An evidence of the truth of this was the custom still observed
by the kings, who, when the ephors send for them, refuse, upon the first and the second summons,
to go, but upon the third, rise up and attend them.  And Asteropus, the first that raised the
ephors to that height of power, lived a great many years after their institution.  So long,
therefore, he continued, as they contained themselves within their own proper sphere, it had
been better to bear with them than to make a disturbance. But that an upstart, introduced power
should so far subvert the ancient form of government as to banish some kings, murder others,
without hearing their defense, and threaten those who desired to see the best and most divine
constitution restored in Sparta, was not to be borne. Therefore, if it had been possible for
him, without bloodshed, to free Lacedaemon from those foreign plagues, luxury, sumptuosity,
debts, and usury, and from those yet more ancient evils, poverty and riches, he should have
thought himself the happiest king in the world, to have succeeded, like an expert physician,
in curing the diseases of his country without pain.  But now, in this necessity, Lycurgus's
example favored his proceedings, who being neither king nor magistrate, but a private man,
and aiming at the kingdom, came armed into the market-place, so that king Charillus fled in
alarm to the altar.  He, being a good man, and a lover of his country, readily concurred in
Lycurgus's designs, and admitted the revolution in the state.  But, by his own actions, Lycurgus
had nevertheless borne witness that it was difficult to change the government without force
and fear, in the use of which he himself, he said, had been so moderate as to do no more than
put out of the way those who opposed themselves to Sparta's happiness and safety.  For the
rest of the nation, he told them, the whole land was now their common property; debtors should
be cleared of their debts, and examination made of those who were not citizens, that the bravest
men might thus be made free Spartans, and give aid in arms to save the city, and "We" he said,
"may no longer see Laconia, for want of men to defend it, wasted by the Aetolians and Illyrians."

Then he himself first, with his step-father, Megistonus, and his friends, gave up all their
wealth into one public stock, and all the other citizens followed the example.  The land was
divided, and everyone that he had banished, had a share assigned him; for he promised to restore
all, as soon as things were settled and in quiet.  And completing the number of citizens out
of the best and most promising of the country people, he raised a body of four thousand men;
and instead of a spear, taught them to use a surissu, with both hands, and to carry their shields
by a band, and not by a handle, as before.  After this, he began to consult about the education
of the youth, and the Discipline, as they call it; most of the particulars of which, Sphaerus,
being then at Sparta, assisted in arranging; and, in a short time, the schools of exercise
and the common tables recovered their ancient decency and order, a few out of necessity, but
the most voluntarily, returning to that generous and Laconic way of living.  And, that the
name of monarch might give them no jealousy, he made Euclidas, his brother, partner in the
throne; and that was the only time that Sparta had two kings of the same family.

Then, understanding that the Achaeans and Aratus imagined that this change had disturbed and
shaken his affairs, and that he would not venture out of Sparta and leave the city now unsettled
in the midst of so great an alteration, he thought it great and serviceable to his designs,
to show his enemies the zeal and forwardness of his troops.  And, therefore, making an incursion
into the territories of Megalopolis, he wasted the country far and wide, and collected a considerable
booty.  And, at last, taking a company of actors, as they were traveling from Messene, and
building a theater in the enemy's country, and offering a prize of forty minae in value, he
sat spectator a whole day; not that he either desired or needed such amusement, but wishing
to show his disregard for his enemies, and by a display of his contempt, to prove the extent
of his superiority to them.  For his alone, of all the Greek or royal armies, had no stage-players,
no jugglers, no dancing or singing women attending it, but was free from all sorts of looseness,
wantonness, and festivity; the young men being for the most part at their exercises, and the
old men giving them lessons, or, at leisure times, diverting themselves with their native jests,
and quick Laconian answers; the good results of which we have noticed in the life of Lycurgus.

He himself instructed all by his example; he was a living pattern of temperance before every
man's eyes; and his course of living was neither more stately, nor more expensive, nor in any
way more pretentious, than that of any of his people. And this was a considerable advantage
to him in his designs on Greece.  For men when they waited upon other kings, did not so much
admire their wealth, costly furniture, and numerous attendance, as they hated their pride and
state, their difficulty of access, and imperious answers to their addresses.  But when they
came to Cleomenes, who was both really a king, and bore that title, and saw no purple, no robes
of state upon him, no couches and litters about him for his ease, and that he did not receive
requests and return answers after a long delay and difficulty, through a number of messengers
and doorkeepers, or by memorials, but that he rose and came forward in any dress he might happen
to be wearing, to meet those that came to wait upon him, stayed, talked freely and affably
with all that had business, they were extremely taken, and won to his service, and professed
that he alone was the true son of Hercules.  His common every day's meal was in an ordinary
room, very sparing, and after the Laconic manner; and when he entertained ambassadors or strangers,
two more couches were added, and a little better dinner provided by his servants, but no savoring
sauces or sweetmeats; only the dishes were larger, and the wine more plentiful.  For he reproved
one of his friends for entertaining some strangers with nothing but barley bread and black
broth, such diet as they usually had in their phiditia; saying, that upon such occasions, and
when they entertained strangers, it was not well to be too exact Laconians.  After the table
was removed, a stand was brought in, with a brass vessel full of wine, two silver bowls which
held about a pint apiece, a few silver cups, of which he that pleased might drink, but wine
was not urged on any of the guests.  There was no music, nor was any required; for he entertained
the company himself, sometimes asking questions, sometimes telling stories; and his conversation
was neither too grave or disagreeably serious, nor yet in any way rude or ungraceful in its
pleasantry.  For he thought those ways of entrapping men by gifts and presents, which other
kings use, dishonest and inartificial; and it seemed to him to be the most noble method, and
most suitable to a king, to win the affections of those that came near him, by personal intercourse
and agreeable conversation, since between a friend and a mercenary the only distinction is,
that we gain the one by one's character and conversation, the other by one's money.

The Mantineans were the first that requested his aid; and when he entered their city by night,
they aided him to expel the Achaean garrison, and put themselves under his protection.  He
restored them their polity and laws, and the same day marched to Tegea; and a little while
after, fetching a compass through Arcadia, he made a descent upon Pherae, in Achaea, intending
to force Aratus to a battle, or bring him into disrepute, for refusing to engage, and suffering
him to waste the country.  Hyperbatas at that time was general, but Aratus had all the power
amongst the Achaeans.  The Achaeans, marching forth with their whole strength, and encamping
in Dymae, near the Hecatombaeum, Cleomenes came up, and thinking it not advisable to pitch
between Dymae, a city of the enemies, and the camp of the Achaeans, he boldly dared the Achaeans,
and forced them to a battle, and routing their phalanx, slew a great many in the fight, and
took many prisoners, and thence marching to Langon, and driving out the Achaean garrison, he
restored the city to the Eleans.

The affairs of the Achaeans being in this unfortunate condition, Aratus, who was wont to take
office every other year, refused the command, though they entreated and urged him to accept
it.  And this was ill done, when the storm was high, to put the power out of his own hands,
and set another to the helm.  Cleomenes at first proposed fair and easy conditions by his ambassadors
to the Achaeans, but afterward he sent others, and required the chief command to be settled
upon him; in other matters offering to agree to reasonable terms, and to restore their captives
and their country.  The Achaeans were willing to come to an agreement upon those terms, and
invited Cleomenes to Lerna, where an assembly was to be held; but it happened that Cleomenes,
hastily marching on, and drinking water at a wrong time, brought up a quantity of blood, and
lost his voice; therefore being unable to continue his journey, he sent the chiefest of the
captives to the Achaeans, and, putting off the meeting for some time, retired to Lacedaemon.

This ruined the affairs of Greece, which was just beginning in some sort to recover from its
disasters, and to show some capability of delivering itself from the insolence and rapacity
of the Macedonians.  For Aratus, (whether fearing or distrusting Cleomenes, or envying his
unlooked-for success, or thinking it a disgrace for him who had commanded thirty-three years,
to have a young man succeed to all his glory and his power, and be head of that government
which he had been raising and settling so many years,) first endeavored to keep the Achaeans
from closing with Cleomenes; but when they would not hearken to him, fearing Cleomenes's daring
spirit, and thinking the Lacedaemonians' proposals to be very reasonable, who designed only
to reduce Peloponnesus to its old model, upon this he took his last refuge in an action which
was unbecoming any of the Greeks, most dishonorable to him, and most unworthy his former bravery
and exploits.  For he called Antigonus into Greece, and filled Peloponnesus with Macedonians,
whom he himself, when a youth, having beaten their garrison out of the castle of Corinth, had
driven from the same country.  And there had been constant suspicion and variance between him
and all the kings, and of Antigonus, in particular, he has said a thousand dishonorable things
in the commentaries he has left behind him.  And though he declares himself how he suffered
considerable losses, and underwent great dangers, that he might free Athens from the garrison
of the Macedonians, yet, afterwards, he brought the very same men armed into his own country,
and his own house, even to the women's apartment. He would not endure that one of the family
of Hercules, and king of Sparta, and one that had reformed the polity of his country, as it
were, from a disordered harmony, and retuned it to the plain Doric measure and rule of life
of Lycurgus, should be styled head of the Tritaeans and Sicyonians; and whilst he fled the
barley-cake and coarse coat, and which were his chief accusations against Cleomenes, the extirpation
of wealth and reformation of poverty, he basely subjected himself, together with Achaea, to
the diadem and purple, to the imperious commands of the Macedonians and their satraps. That
he might not seem to be under Cleomenes, he offered sacrificers, called Antigonea, in honor
of Antigonus, and sang paeans himself, with a garland on his head, to the praise of a wasted,
consumptive Macedonian.  I write this not out of any design to disgrace Aratus, for in many
things he showed himself a true lover of Greece, and a great man, but out of pity to the weakness
of human nature, which in characters like this, so worthy and in so many ways disposed to virtue,
cannot maintain its honors unblemished by some envious fault.

The Achaeans meeting again in assembly at Argos, and Cleomenes having come from Tegea, there
were great hopes that all differences would be composed.  But Aratus, Antigonus and he having
already agreed upon the chief articles of their league, fearing that Cleomenes would carry
all before him, and either win or force the multitude to comply with his demands, proposed,
that having three hundred hostages put into his hands, he should come alone into the town,
or bring his army to the place of exercise, called the Cyllarabium, outside the city, and treat
there.

Cleomenes, hearing this, said, that he was unjustly dealt with; for they ought to have told
him so plainly at first, and not now he was come even to their doors, show their jealousy,
and deny him admission.  And writing a letter to the Achaeans about the same subject, the greatest
part of which was an accusation of Aratus, while Aratus, on the other side, spoke violently
against him to the assembly, he hastily dislodged, and sent a trumpeter to denounce war against
the Achaeans, not to Argos, but to Aegium, as Aratus writes, that he might not give them notice
enough to make provision for their defense.  There had also been a movement among the Achaeans
themselves, and the cities were eager for revolt; the common people expecting a division of
the land, and a release from their debts, and the chief men being in many places ill-disposed
to Aratus, and some of them angry and indignant with him, for having brought the Macedonians
into Peloponnesus.  Encouraged by these misunderstandings, Cleomenes invaded Achaea, and first
took Pellene by surprise, and beat out the Achaean garrison, and afterwards brought over Pheneus
and Penteleum to his side.  Now the Achaeans, suspecting some treacherous designs at Corinth
and Sicyon, sent their horse and mercenaries out of Argos, to have an eye upon those cities,
and they themselves went to Argos, to celebrate the Nemean games.  Cleomenes, advertised of
this march, and hoping, as it afterward fell out, that upon an unexpected advance to the city,
now busied in the solemnity of the games, and thronged with numerous spectators, he should
raise a considerable terror and confusion amongst them, by night marched with his army to the
walls, and taking the quarter of the town called Aspis, which lies above the theater, well
fortified, and hard to be approached, he so terrified them that none offered to resist, but
they agreed to accept a garrison, to give twenty citizens for hostages, and to assist the Lacedaemonians,
and that he should have the chief command.

This action considerably increased his reputation and his power; for the ancient Spartan kings,
though they many ways endeavored to effect it, could never bring Argos to be permanently theirs.
And Pyrrhus, the most experienced captain, though he entered the city by force, could not keep
possession, but was slain himself, with a considerable part of his army.  Therefore they admired
the dispatch and contrivance of Cleomenes; and those that before derided him, for imitating,
as they said, Solon and Lycurgus, in releasing the people from their debts, and in equalizing
the property of the citizens, were now fain to admit that this was the cause of the change
in the Spartans.  For before they were very low in the world, and so unable to secure their
own, that the Aetolians, invading Laconia, brought away fifty thousand slaves; so that one
of the elder Spartans is reported to have said, that they had done Laconia a kindness by unburdening
it; and yet a little while after, by merely recurring once again to their native customs, and
reentering the track of the ancient discipline, they were able to give, as though it had been
under the eyes and conduct of Lycurgus himself, the most signal instances of courage and obedience,
raising Sparta to her ancient place as the commanding state of Greece, and recovering all Peloponnesus.

When Argos was captured, and Cleonae and Phlius came over, as they did at once, to Cleomenes,
Aratus was at Corinth, searching after some who were reported to favor the Spartan interest.
The news, being brought to him, disturbed him very much; for he perceived the city inclining
to Cleomenes, and willing to be rid of the Achaeans.  Therefore he summoned the citizens to
meet in the Council Hall, and slipping away without being observed to the gate, he mounted
his horse that had been brought for him thither, and fled to Sicyon.  And the Corinthians made
such haste to Cleomenes at Argos, that, as Aratus says, striving who should be first there,
they spoiled all their horses; he adds that Cleomenes was very angry with the Corinthians for
letting him escape; and that Megistonus came from Cleomenes to him, desiring him to deliver
up the castle at Corinth, which was then garrisoned by the Achaeans, and offered him a considerable
sum of money, and that he answered, that matters were not now in his power, but he in theirs.
Thus Aratus himself writes.  But Cleomenes, marching from Argos, and taking in the Troezenians,
Epidaurians, and Hermioneans, came to Corinth, and blocked up the castle, which the Achaeans
would not surrender; and sending for Aratus's friends and stewards, committed his house and
estate to their care and management; and sent Tritymallus, the Messenian, to him a second time,
desiring that the castle might be equally garrisoned by the Spartans and Achaeans, and promising
to Aratus himself double the pension that he received from king Ptolemy.  But Aratus, refusing
the conditions, and sending his own son with the other hostages to Antigonus, and persuading
the Achaeans to make a decree for delivering the castle into Antigonus's hands, upon this Cleomenes
invaded the territory of the Sicyonians, and by a decree of the Corinthians, accepted Aratus's
estate as a gift.

