WHY WORRY?

BY

GEORGE LINCOLN WALTON, M.D.

CONSULTING NEUROLOGIST TO THE MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL

The legs of the stork are long, the legs of the duck are short; you cannot make the legs of
the stork short, neither can you make the legs of the duck long. Why worry?--Chwang Tsze.

TO MY LONG-SUFFERING FAMILY AND CIRCLE OF FRIENDS, WHOSE PATIENCE HAS BEEN TRIED BY MY EFFORTS
TO ELIMINATE WORRY, THIS BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED.

PREFACE.

No apology is needed for adding another to the treatises on a subject whose importance is evidenced
by the number already offered the public.

The habit of worry is not to be overcome by unaided resolution. It is hoped that the victim
of this unfortunate tendency may find, among the homely illustrations and commonplace suggestions
here offered, something to turn his mind into more healthy channels. It is not the aim of the
writer to transform the busy man into a philosopher of the indolent and contemplative type,
but rather to enable him to do his work more effectively by eliminating undue solicitude. This
elimination is consistent even with the "strenuous life."

One writer has distinguished between normal and abnormal worry, and directed his efforts against
the latter. Webster's definition of worry (A state of undue solicitude) obviates the necessity
of deciding what degree and kind of worry is abnormal, and directs attention rather to deciding
what degree of solicitude may be fairly adjudged undue.

In the treatment of a subject of this character a certain amount of repetition is unavoidable.
But it is hoped that the reiteration of fundamental principles and of practical hints will
aid in the application of the latter. The aim is the gradual establishment of a frame of mind.
The reader who looks for the annihilation of individual worries, or who hopes to influence
another by the direct application of the suggestions, may prepare, in the first instance for
disappointment, in the second, for trouble.

The thanks of the writer are due to Miss Amy Morris Homans, Director of the Boston Normal School
of Gymnastics, for requesting him to make to her students the address which forms the nucleus
of these pages.

GEORGE L. WALTON.

BOSTON, April, 1908.

CONTENTS

    I. INTRODUCTORY
   II. EPICURUS AS A MENTAL HEALER
  III. THE PSYCHO-THERAPY OF MARCUS AURELIUS
   IV. ANALYSIS OF WORRY
    V. WORRY AND OBSESSION
   VI. THE DOUBTING FOLLY
  VII. HYPOCHONDRIA
 VIII. NEURASTHENIA
   IX. SLEEPLESSNESS
    X. OCCUPATION NEUROSIS
   XI. THE WORRIER AT HOME
  XII. THE WORRIER ON HIS TRAVELS
 XIII. THE WORRIER AT THE TABLE
  XIV. THE FEAR OF BECOMING INSANE
   XV. RECAPITULATORY
  XVI. MAXIMS MISAPPLIED
 XVII. THE FAD
XVIII. HOME TREATMENT
  XIX. HOME TREATMENT CONTINUED

DEFINITIONS.

WORRY. A state of undue solicitude.

HYPOCHONDRIA. A morbid mental condition characterized by undue solicitude regarding the health,
and undue attention to matters thereto pertaining.

OBSESSION. An unduly insistent and compulsive thought, habit of mind, or tendency to action.

DOUBTING FOLLY (Folie du doute.) A state of mind characterized by a tendency unduly to question,
argue and speculate upon ordinary matters.

NEURASTHENIA. A form of nervous disturbance characterized by exhaustion and irritability.

PHOBIA. An insistent and engrossing fear without adequate cause, as judged by ordinary standards.

OCCUPATION NEUROSIS. A nervous disorder in which pain, sometimes with weakness and cramp, results
from continued use of a part.

PSYCHO-THERAPY. Treatment through the mind.

No other technical terms are used.

I.

INTRODUCTORY

When Thales was asked what was difficult he said, "To know oneself"; and what was easy, "To
advise another."

Marcus Aurelius counselled, "Let another pray, 'Save Thou my child,' but do thou pray, 'Let
me not fear to lose him.'"

Few of us are likely to attain this level; few, perhaps, aspire to do so. Nevertheless, the
training which falls short of producing complete self-control may yet accomplish something
in the way of fitting us, by taking the edge off our worry, to react more comfortably to our
surroundings, thus not only rendering us more desirable companions, but contributing directly
to our own health and happiness.

Under the ills produced by faulty mental tendencies I do not include cancer and the like. This
inclusion seems to me as subversive of the laws of nature as the cure of such disease by mental
treatment would be miraculous. At the same time, serious disorders surely result from faulty
mental tendencies.

In this category we must include, for example, hypochondria, a disturbance shown by undue anxiety
concerning one's own physical and mental condition. This disorder, with the allied fears resulting
from the urgent desire to be always absolutely safe, absolutely well, and absolutely comfortable,
is capable, in extreme cases, of so narrowing the circle of pleasure and of usefulness that
the sufferer might almost as well have organic disease.

Neurasthenia (nervous prostration) has for its immediate exciting cause some overwork or stress
of circumstance, but the sufferer not infrequently was already so far handicapped by regrets
for the past, doubts for the present, and anxieties for the future, by attention to minute
details and by unwillingness to delegate responsibilities to others, that he was exhausted
by his own mental travail before commencing upon the overwork which precipitated his breakdown.
In such cases the occasion of the collapse may have been his work, but the underlying cause
was deeper. Many neurasthenics who think they are "all run down" are really "all wound up."
They carry their stress with them.

Among the serious results of faulty mental habit must be included also the doubting folly (folie
du doute). The victim of this disorder is so querulously anxious to make no mistake that he
is forever returning to see if he has turned out the gas, locked the door, and the like; in
extreme cases he finally doubts the actuality of his own sensations, and so far succumbs to
chronic indecision as seriously to handicap his efforts. This condition has been aptly termed
a "spasm of the attention."

The apprehensive and fretful may show, in varying degree, signs of either or all these conditions,
according as circumstances may direct their attention.

Passing from serious disorders to minor sources of daily discomfort, there are few individuals
so mentally gifted that they are impervious to the distress occasioned by variations of temperature
and of weather; to the annoyance caused by criticism, neglect, and lack of appreciation on
the part of their associates; to active resentment, even anger, upon moderate provocation;
to loss of temper when exhausted; to embarrassment in unusual situations; to chronic indecision;
to the sleeplessness resulting from mental preoccupation; and above all, to the futile regrets,
the querulous doubts, and the undue anxiety included under the term worry, designated by a
recent author "the disease of the age."

Something may be accomplished in the way of lessening all these ills by continuous, properly
directed effort on the part of the individual. Every inroad upon one faulty habit strengthens
the attack upon all, and each gain means a step toward the acquisition of a mental poise that
shall give its possessor comparative immunity from the petty annoyances of daily life.

In modern psycho-therapy the suggestion, whether on the part of the physician or of the patient,
plays a prominent part, and it is in this direction, aside from the advice regarding occupation
and relaxation, that my propositions will trend. I shall not include, however, suggestions
depending for their efficacy upon self-deceit, such as might spring, for example, from the
proposition that if we think there is a fire in the stove it warms us, or that if we break
a pane in the bookcase thinking it a window, we inhale with pleasure the resulting change of
air. The suggestions are intended to appeal to the reason, rather than to the imagination.

The special aim will be to pay attention to the different varieties of worry, and to offer
easily understood and commonplace suggestions which any one may practice daily and continuously,
at last automatically, without interfering with his routine work or recreation. Indeed the
tranquil mind aids, rather than hinders, efficient work, by enabling its possessor to pass
from duty to duty without the hindrance of undue solicitude.

In advising the constitutional worrier the chief trouble the physician finds is an active opposition
on the part of the patient. Instead of accepting another's estimate of his condition, and another's
suggestions for its relief, he comes with a preconceived notion of his own difficulties, and
with an insistent demand for their instant relief by drug or otherwise. He uses up his mental
energy, and loses his temper, in the effort to convince his physician that he is not argumentative.
In a less unreasonable, but equally difficult class, come those who recognize the likeness
in the portrait painted by the consultant, but who say they have tried everything he suggests,
but simply "can't."

It is my hope that some of the argumentative class may recognize, in my description, their
own case instead of their neighbor's, and may of their own initiative adopt some of the suggestions;
moreover, that some of the acquiescent, but despairing class will renew their efforts in a
different spirit. The aim is, not to accomplish a complete and sudden cure, but to gain something
every day, or if losing a little to-day, to gain a little to-morrow, and ultimately to find
one's self on a somewhat higher plane, without discouragement though not completely freed from
the trammels entailed by faulty mental habit.

II.

EPICURUS AS A MENTAL HEALER

'Tis to believe what men inspired of old, Faithful, and faithfully informed, unfold.

Cowper.

The suggestions offered in the following pages are not new. Many of them were voiced by Epicurus
three hundred years before Christ, and even then were ancient history. Unfortunately Epicurus
had his detractors. One, Timocrates, in particular, a renegade from his school, spread malicious
and unfounded reports of his doings and sayings, reports too easily credited then, and starting,
perhaps, the misconception which to-day prevails regarding the aims of this philosopher.

But when Marcus Aurelius, nearly five centuries later, decided to endow a philosophical professoriate
he established the Epicurean as one of the four standard schools. The endorsement of such a
one should surely predispose us to believe the authentic commentators of Epicurus, and to discredit
the popular notion which makes his cult synonymous with the gratification of the appetites,
instead of with the mental tranquility to which he regarded sensual pleasures so detrimental
that he practically limited his diet, and that of his disciples, to bread and water.

