In old times the casting of a lot was a solemn religious service: ushered in even among pagans
with prayer and often with fasting; but what careless, reckless ignoring of God as the Governor
among the nations, is there in all connected with the lot in our days.  What foul associations
cloud and wrap up almost every game of chance: how soiled are the cards, how unhallowed the
rattle of the dice.  What degrading, debasing work is done by every species of lottery; what
desperate evils spring up and grow out of "a chance" at a Church fair!  Some years ago, at
the time of the great German and French fairs in New York, a lady thoughtlessly gave her young
son leave to buy "a chance" for a gold watch.  Thoughtlessly,--it was just a dollar to the
fair and an amusement to the boy.  And before twenty-four hours had passed, she would have
given anything in the world to recall her permission.  For at once the boy's mind became wholly
absorbed in his "chance."  The fair went on, the drawing was long delayed; and day after day--hour
by hour, if he could--he went to inquire and to watch; and the mother saw her child in a true
gambling fever, and she obliged to let it run its course.  Mercifully, as she said, the watch
fell to another.  "If it had come to George, I don't know what in the world I should have done."

"We play for sugarplums,"--we "toss up" for nuts; but each time the evil seeds are planted.
The mere habit of talking of "chance," of "luck," of "fate," as if you believed in them all,
tends directly to weaken your realizing trust in the Great Ruler of the world; who counts his
sparrows, and numbers the hairs of your head.  Chance?  If the watchmaker could not control
one smallest wheel or point in his watch; if even a grain of dust got in and defied him; what
think you he could do with mainspring and hands?  One unmanageable atom would stop the whole.

To quote Dr. Skinner again,--one to whom I think it never occurred to like anything but what
God liked,--in his early life as a young man he had seen much wild company; and so strong was
their association with evil, that to the end of his life he could never even hear the dice
fall without a shiver.

"Put it away, my dear," he would say of even the backgammon board.  "I don't like it--I don't
like it!"

For games of chance, as a rule, gather round them a setting of sin and sorrow which other games
do not.  I suppose men take in their practical infidelity, and grow lawless.  You do not mean
to appeal to God in your games of "chance,"--but if not to him, then to some other power supposed
to be outside his rule or beyond his notice: "chance," "luck," or the devil.  And it does not
much matter which word you use.  Yet "tired" Church members will play euchre and whist, and
there are cards in the table drawer in the parlour, and of course a dingier pack in the kitchen,
in many a so-called Christian house; though the family hide them or apologize before people
who are called "intense."  The minister comes in upon a card party in his parish, and all rise
in deprecatory confusion; and perhaps (ah I know it happened in one case) the minister waves
his hand graciously, with a "Don't let me disturb you,"--and so passes on.  O it hurts one
to have a fellow Christian ask in the quiet evening at her own house, "Would you object to
our bringing out the cards?"--"I could not touch them," was all the answer, and the drawer
stayed shut.  But I wish a Nonconformist Church could rise up in these days.  We are so busy
calling ourselves Episcopalians, Methodists, Presbyterians, that we seem to forget the old
far-better name which should include all.  In the war it was only loyal or disloyal: and New
York was proud of the Wisconsin boys that were all six feet two; and Ohio wept for those of
Massachusetts who were among the first to shed their blood.  Dear friends, it is war time now:
if you could only realize that, a good many things would be set straight.  Not able to give
up doubtful games and questionable dances?  Why in '76 the women fired at their tea kettles!--

Nonconformists.  But now, "My mother does it,"--"my aunt goes,"--"my father likes it": so run
the excuses which the members of your Bible Class, children of Church members, fling in your face.

But what you call "lawful" games, are stupid.  Not all of them, perhaps; but if they were,
that would not touch the question. And when the Lord bade us cut off the offending right hand,
no question of whether we could live without it came in.  It is not absolutely needful that
Christ should find all his tired Church members rested and fresh; but it is necessary that
they should be "spotless," "faithful," "ready," when he comes.

There are other amusements that might be touched upon just here, but perhaps they are as well
not named.  Whatever takes you full into the ranks of Christ's enemies, not to fight but to
follow them; whatever you cannot do straight through in the name of the Lord Jesus; whatever
turns you away from the shining presence of his face; is unlawful for you.  Once remember that
there is no middle ground, and then ask yourself what standing room there can be for you on
a race course, what seat at a circus.  If you are not with Christ, openly, unmistakably, you
are "scattering," even in your games.  I asked a friend (a minister of deep experience) lately,
if he had seen much of this private card playing among Church members?  He answered, "Yes,
a great deal."  Then I inquired what was the effect, as he had noticed it.  And the reply was
instant and emphatic:

"Always evil!"--

Carlyle tells of "patriots" in the French Revolution who shaved each other out of the fragments
of bomb shells, and wore ghastly trophies from the guillotine.  But short of a Reign of Terror,
making all men mad, one does not expect such things.  Few people (I fancy) if they knew it,
would care to use the glass from which some poor wretch had drunk his draught of poison; and
even to touch the murderer's knife stored up in a public museum, would turn most hearts sick.
But if you could only see as God sees; if things in society were but labelled and classed;
you would find your cards dark with the soul-life blood of thousands, and could hear their
ruin in every fall of the dice.

I was much interested in a recent English essay ("On the Criminal Code of the Jews") to find
how the typical Israel regarded games of chance. As if something of the old blessed "The Lord
is our King," staid by them, even in the days of their downfall.  The writer says:

"All who made money by dice-playing or any games of hazard, by betting on pigeon matches and
similar objectionable practices, were not only incapable of becoming members of a tribunal,
but were not permitted to give evidence.  The Ghemara regards a man who gains money by the
amusements named, as dishonest."

[1] Once pastor of the Mercer Street Church, New York, and Professor in Union Theological Seminary.

[2] Prov. xvi. 33.

What Left?

But you will say, I leave nothing for you, then; no amusements, no recreation.  Is that true?
Is the narrow way indeed so barren, that we must step out of it to rest?  Has the Lord only
food and water for his flock, and when they need change and refreshment must they leave their
Shepherd, and go over to the wolf for a run upon the hillside?  That sounds hard for weak human
nature--and strange, for a Lord of boundless resources.  And somehow the Bible pictures of
the flock shew wondrous contentment.  "A stranger will they not follow." [1]

Then following the Master must be very sweet; for all men like variety, and the mere fact of
a new voice is of itself enough to draw one aside. Yet "a stranger will they not follow, but
will flee from him,"--O how much that tells!  And here we touch the very root and spring of
true refreshment, of real recreation.  For while good general health is the best specific against
mere bodily fatigue, so against a jaded, over-wrought state of nerves and energies, there is
nothing like a heart full of joy and a mind at rest.

"He that believeth on me shall never thirst." [2]

And if this satisfaction does not underlie all your pastimes, they will be a failure.  No other
stream alone can freshen even the small dry barrens of this earth.

But besides that, what is there left for Christian people?

To begin: "Dancing is such good exercise!" people say.  Granted.  Or at least it might be.
But instead of night hours in a ball room, get on horseback for two hours in the open day,
and then balance the profit and loss.  You don't know how?--then learn.  You have no horse?
Go to riding school.  An hour in the ring will stir your blood better than twenty Germans.
But you "cannot afford" to take riding lessons.--Well to say nothing of ball dresses, just
throw satin slippers and long gloves and carriage hire together, and see if you cannot afford
it. Ay, and have a ticket now and then for some one poorer than yourself.

Then for people who live within reach of the opera, there is generally much other good music
to be had, at far less expense and with none of the objections.  And there again, the money
and time spent at the opera, would train the voices at home into a lovely choir.  Voices which
now "have no time," and talents perhaps unknown.

"Everybody cannot sing."--No.  And neither can everybody paint; but it is a delicious pleasure
to those who can.  What joy to go sketching! what delight to work up the sketches at home.
What pure, noiseless, exquisite play it is.  And if some of the party care nothing for pencils,
let them lie under a tree with a book, and be part of your picture.

"Ah, books!--Of course you disapprove of novels,"--some one exclaims.

Indeed no.  A good novel is very improving as well as refreshing.  And after much study over
that word "good" (that is, for us, worth reading) I can give no better meaning than this. 
A good book, whether novel or other, is one which leaves you further on than it took you up.
If when you drop it, it drops you, right down in the same old spot; with no finer outlook,
no cleared vision, no stimulated desires, it is in no sense a good book for you.  As well make
fancy loaves of sawdust, and label them "Good Bread"; and claim that you rise from the banquet
refreshed.

A novel has special power of its own.  It may be deeply historical, like "Waverly," and "The
Tale of Two Cities."  It may be a picture of vivid local colouring, like "Ivanhoe," or "Lorna
Doone," or "Dr Antonio."  It may be full of social hints and glimpses, with many a covert wise
suggestion, like Miss Austin's "Emma."  It may shew up a vital truth or a life-long mistake,
like Miss Edgeworth's "Helen," or open out new natural scenes like the "Adventures of a Phaeton";
or life scenes, like "Oliver Twist"; or be so full of frolic and fun and sharp common sense,
that the mere laughter of it does you good "like a medicine."  Witness "Christie Johnstone,"
and Miss Carlen's "John." All such books are utterly helpful, and leave you well in advance
of where they found you.  They enlarge your world, they stimulate your life.  Only read none
that enlarge it by a peep through the gates of hell.  On that side knowledge is death.

