This pleased her. For awhile she showed herself loving and tender, but because she obeyed moods
and not a strong, steadfast will, the old unhappiness came back. The Golden Archer felt more
lonely than ever he had done on the high white tower, and loneliest of all when he held her
in his arms.

One day he found her crying. "Why do you cry, Beloved?" he asked her.

"I am lonely," she said.

"With me?"

"Yes," she sobbed, "with you. What have you to tell me but your tales of the great winds? Other
men have had their friends, their adventures. They can relate stories of their boyhood, of
their early life, but you came from a far-off tower and know nothing of the world."

"It is true," he murmured. "I can only tell you of the skies; for all the time of my former
days on earth is dim to me."

That night they sat before the fire, for it was now autumn, and the leaping flames showed her
gold hair and her eyes like dark pools. Upon the Golden Archer they shone, too, where he sat
still and hurt, but unable to tell his pain, because he had lived too high above the world.
The low, hoarse winds drove the flying leaves against the window glass and whistled in the
keyhole; at which Felice would shiver and cast sidelong glances at her strange husband.

All at once on the wind came a caroling voice. Felice rushed to the window and peered out.
The voice sang:

"All that I knew of thee, my Love,
   The great winds bore away.
 When they are hushed wilt thou return
  To bless the close of day?

"In that still hour come back to me,
  And find thy longed-for rest.
 Poor petal blown too near the sun,
  Float downward to my breast."

"Ah," cried Felice, "it is my old Love."

"My love for thee is older than the moon," said the Golden Archer. "Can you not rest by our
hearth?"

Then she knelt by him and pressed her face against his knees. And his heart grew as heavy as
a weary dream before a sultry dawn when the thunder hangs in the hills. Her grief weighed all
the more upon him because he knew she was trying to love him; and when that hour of effort
comes death is under its cloak.

But the next day she was cheerful and sang about her tasks. The Golden Archer saddled his horse
and rode miles through the forest upon the crisp red leaves; and he knew that goodness would
not hold her, nor kindness, nor fidelity, nor service, for love like hers is held prisoner
to nothing once its wings are outstretched, nor does it know good from evil.

When he rode home the stars were peeping through the forest branches, and the white owls were
flying. But the frost that silvered the red leaves was not so sharp and glistening as the memory
of her tears.

As he reached his door he saw that it was open and the light from the fire shone out upon the
dark paths of the forest. But the room was empty of her presence.

He called her name, but no answer was returned; then on a tablet upon the table he saw words
written and brought them to the fire and read them.

"O Golden Archer, go back to thy tower, for the great winds have taken me on a long journey,
and I shall never see thee again."

Then he knew that not his faithful winds, but the voice of old memories had called her, and
he bowed his head in an imperishable sorrow.

Because his heart was broken he desired to cease from his humanity and return to the old white
tower. As once his warm tears had thawed his shining armor and made him an inhabitant of the
world, so now his cold and bitter tears encased him again in hard metal.

Walking wearily and with stiff footsteps he went to the stable, brought out his horse and rode
across the plain to the great white church upon which the midnight moon was shining. He knocked
on its west door, and from the vaults came the echoes.

"You cannot return, Golden Archer, for you have broken your vow!"

"But I have broken my heart also," he answered; "therefore, let me in."

"But you will come down again from the tower," cried the echoes.

"Nay, for only the broken-hearted know how to keep their vows," he answered.

So the doors swung open, and up the dim spiral stairs rode the Golden Archer, through bars
of moonlight to the region of the great winds where again he mounted the tower. But always
there is one dream left to the sorrowful, and his was, that some night the great winds would
drive her soul against his breast.

Then he became very still and turned his arrow northward, for the wind was coming from the
far circles of the Arctic ice.

Next day the sun rose red and glorious and made fires on the armor of the Golden Archer, and
all the people upon the plain rubbed their eyes and cried out:

"There's a new Archer on the Cathedral. Now we shall know from which horizon comes the wind!"