He was not buried on the field he won, nor even in the country that he conquered. All that
was mortal of him--his poor, sick, wounded body--was borne back across the sea, and carried
in mourning triumph through his native land. And there, in the family vault at Greenwich, near
the school he had left for his first war, half his short life ago, he was laid to rest on November
20--at the very time when his own great victory before Quebec was being confirmed by Hawke's
magnificently daring attack on the French fleet amid all the dangers of that wild night in
Quiberon Bay.

Canada has none of his mortality. But could she have anything more sacred than the spot from
which his soaring spirit took its flight into immortal fame? And could this sacred spot be
marked by any words more winged than these:

   HERE DIED
     WOLFE
   VICTORIOUS

CHAPTER VIII

EPILOGUE--THE LAST STAND

Wolfe's victory on the Plains of Abraham proved decisive in the end; but it was not the last
of the great struggle for the Key of Canada.

After Wolfe had died on the field of battle, and Monckton had been disabled by his wounds,
Townshend took command, received the surrender of Quebec on the 18th, and waited till the French
field army had retired towards Montreal. Then he sailed home with Saunders, leaving Murray
to hold what Wolfe had won. Saunders left Lord Colville in charge of a strong squadron, with
orders to wait at Halifax till the spring.

Both French and British spent a terrible winter. The French had better shelter in Montreal
than the British had among the ruins of Quebec; and, being more accustomed to the rigours of
the climate, they would have suffered less from cold in any case. But their lot was, on the
whole, the harder of the two; for food was particularly bad and scarce in Montreal, where even
horseflesh was thought a luxury. Both armies were ravaged by disease to a most alarming extent.
Of the eight thousand men with whom Murray began that deadly winter not one-half were able
to bear arms in the spring; and not one-half of those who did bear arms then were really fit
for duty.

Montcalm's successor, Levis, now made a skilful, bold, and gallant attempt to retake Quebec
before navigation opened. Calling the whole remaining strength of New France to his aid, he
took his army down in April, mostly by way of the St Lawrence. The weather was stormy. The
banks of the river were lined with rotting ice. The roads were almost impassable. Yet, after
a journey of less than ten days, the whole French army appeared before Quebec. Murray was at
once confronted by a dire dilemma. The landward defences had never been strong; and he had
not been able to do more than patch them up. If he remained behind them Levis would close in,
batter them down, and probably carry them by assault against a sickly garrison depressed by
being kept within the walls. If, on the other hand, he marched out, he would have to meet more
than double numbers at the least; for some men would have to be left to cover a retreat; and
he knew the French grand total was nearly thrice his own. But he chose this bolder course;
and at the chill dawn of April 28, he paraded his little attacking force of a bare three thousand
men on the freezing snow and mud of the Esplanade and then marched out.

