Life is altogether too precious a gift to be thrown away. A man who would permit a field to
be overgrown with weeds and thorns simply because it would not naturally produce roses, would
be very foolish, particularly if the ground should only need cultivation to enable it to yield
abundantly of corn. Far be it from me to depreciate physical symmetry and personal comeliness.
They are gifts of God, and they are very good; but there are better things in this world than
a good face, and better things than the admiration which a good face wins. I am more and more
convinced, as the years pass away, that the choicest thing this world has for a man is affection--not
any special variety of affection, but the approval, the sympathy, and the devotion of true
hearts. It is not necessary that this affection come from the great and the powerful. If it
be genuine, that is all the heart asks. It does not criticize and graduate the value of the
fountains from which it springs. It is at these fountains particularly that the unfortunates
of the world are permitted to drink. They have only to accept cheerfully the conditions of
their lot, and to give free and full play to all that is good and generous in them, to secure
in an unusual degree the love of those into whose intimate society Providence has thrown them.

It is stated by Dr. Livingstone, the celebrated explorer of Africa, that the blow of a lion's
paw upon his shoulder, which was so severe as to break his arm, completely annihilated fear;
and he suggests that it is possible that Providence has mercifully arranged, that all those
beasts that prey upon life shall have power to destroy the sting of death in the animals which
are their natural victims. I do not believe that this power is mercifully assigned to beasts
of prey alone, but that the misfortunes that assail our limbs and forms, in whatever shape
and at whatever time they may come, bring with them something which lightens the blow, or obviates
the pain, if we will accept it. There is a calm consciousness in every soul, however harshly
the lion's paw may fall upon the body which it inhabits, that it is itself invulnerable--that
whatever may be the condition of the body, the soul cannot be injured by physical forms or forces.

Physical calamity never comes with the power to extinguish that which is essential to the highest
manhood and womanhood, and never fails to bring with it a motive for the adjustment of the
soul to its conditions. The little boy whose "Hail Columbia" has been ringing in my ears all
day, accepted the conditions of his life, and the sting of his calamity has departed. It is
pleasant to say to him, and to all the brotherhood and sisterhood of ugliness and lameness,
that there is every reason to believe that there is no such thing in heaven as a one-legged
or a club-footed soul--no such thing as an ugly or a misshapen soul--no such thing as a blind
or a deaf soul--no such thing as a soul with tainted blood in its veins; and that out of these
imperfect bodies will spring spirits of consummate perfection and angelic beauty--a beauty
chastened and enriched by the humiliations that were visited upon their earthly habitation.

LESSON III.

ANIMAL CONTENT.

  "Ay, give me back the joyous hours
   When I, myself, was ripening too;
   When song, the fount flung up its showers
   Of beauty, ever fresh and new." GOETHE'S FAUST.

I have been watching a family of kittens, engaged in their exquisitely graceful play. Near
them lay their mother, stretched at her length upon the flagging, taking her morning nap, and
warming herself in the sun. She had eaten her breakfast, (provided by no care of her own, but
at my expense,) had seen her little family fed, and having nothing further to attend to, had
gone off into a doze. What a blessed freedom from care! Think of a family of four children,
with no frocks to be made for them, no hair to brush, no shoes to provide, no socks to knit
and mend, no school-books to buy, and no nurse! Think of a living being with the love of offspring
in her bosom, and a multitude of marvellous instincts in her nature, yet knowing nothing of
God, thinking not of the future, without a hope or an expectation, or a doubt or a fear, passing
straight on to annihilation! At the threshold of this destiny the little kittens were carelessly
playing; and they are doubtless still playing, while I write. They have no lessons to learn,
they do not have to go to Sunday-school, they entertain no prejudices, except against dogs
which occasionally dodge into the yard; and I judge, by the familiar way in which they play
with their mother's ears, and pounce upon her tail, that they are not in any degree oppressed
by a sense of the respect due to a parent. Cat and kittens will eat, and frolic, and sleep,
through their brief life, and then they will curl up in some dark corner and die.

I remember that in one of the late Mr. Joseph C. Neal's "Charcoal Sketches," he puts into the
mouth of a very sad and seedy loafer the expression of a wish that he were a pig, and a statement
of the reasons for the wish. These reasons, as I recall them, related to the freedom of the
pig from the peculiar trials and troubles of humanity. Pigs do not have to work for a living;
they undertake no enterprizes, and of course fail in none; they eat and sleep through a period
of months, and then come the knife and a grunt, and that is the last of them. Now I suppose
this thought of Mr. Neal's loafer has been shared by millions of men. Not that everybody has
at some time in his life wished he were a pig, but that nearly everybody who has had his share
of the troubles and responsibilities of life, has looked upon simple animal carelessness and
content with a certain degree of envy. It is not necessary to go among brutes for instances
of this animal content. It can be found among men. Who does not know good-natured, ignorant,
healthy fellows, who will work all day in the field, whistle all the way homeward, eat hugely
of course food, sleep like logs, and take no more interest in the great questions which agitate
the most of us, than the pigs they feed, and that, in return, feed them? Who has not sighed,
as he has seen how easily the simple wants of certain simple natures are supplied? I remember
an old man who quite unexpectedly was drafted into the grand jury, which sat in the county
town less than ten miles distant from his home; and this was the great event of his life. He
never tired of talking about it--(never tired himself, I mean,) and a stranger could not carry
on a conversation with him for five minutes, without hearing of something which occurred when
"I was in Blanktown, on the Grand Jury." It is doubtful whether Napoleon ever contemplated
a victory with the complacent satisfaction that filled my old friend when he alluded to his
connection with "the grand jury," and emphasized the adjective which magnified the jury and
glorified him.

I confess that, when I pass through a rural town, and see the laborers among the corn, and
the boys driving their cattle, and the girls busy in the dairies, and life passing away quietly,
I cannot avoid a twinge of regret that it would be impossible for me to be content with the
kind of life that I see around me, especially as I know that there is one kind of pleasure--negative,
perhaps, rather than positive--which that kind of life enjoys, and in which I can never share.
Relief from great responsibilities, and contentment with humble clothing, humble fare, humble
society, humble aims and ambitions, humble means and humble labors--ah! how many weary, overloaded
men--how many disappointed hearts--have sighed for such a boon, and sighed knowing they could
never receive it. 

Of this it would seem that a rays are write of particles charged with peculiar electricity, and Professor.
J. Perrin has modified the inquiry by Thomson to show as deflected electricity is so negative by the
rays. The associated ray's, today known that the cathode rays, not merely project an umbra, but
are negative with a magnet, actually that the position from the phosphorescence of the bedside
of the tube may be altered of the proximity on a powerful magnet. Bucolics are very sweet, but their writers do not believe in
them. "A nut-brown maid," with bare, unconscious feet and ancles, is very pretty in a picture,
but the man who painted her ascertained that she was green, and not the most entertaining of
companions. The truth is, that when we have got along so far that we can perceive that which
is poetical and picturesque in the simplest form of rustic life, we have got too far along
to enjoy it.

I suppose that much of the charm which simple animal content has for us, is connected with
the memories of childhood. We can all recall a period of our lives when there was joy in the
consciousness of living--when animal life, in its spontaneous overflow, flooded all our careless
hours with its own peculiar pleasure. The light was pleasant to our eyes, vigorous appetite
and digestion made ambrosia of the homeliest fare, the simplest play brought delight, and life--all
untried--lay spread out before us in one long, golden dream. We now watch our children at their
sports, and see but little difference between their sources of happiness and those which supply
the kittens in their play. "Pleased with a rattle, tickled with a straw," they skip from pleasure
to pleasure, and find delight in the impulsive exercise of their little powers. We were once
like them. Life was once as fresh, and flowing, and impulsive, and objectless, as it is with
them; and when we are weary and oppressed with labor, and loaded down with responsibility,
and filled with thoughts of the great destiny before us, we turn our eyes backward with a sigh
for days once ours, but lost forever. Lost forever! This is the romantic pain that fills us
in all our contemplations of simple animal content. It is lost to us, because we are lost to
it. Like a passenger far out upon the sea, adventuring upon a long voyage, we look back upon
the fading hills of our native land, and sigh to think that the breeze which bears us away
can never bring us back.

The question comes to us: "What is there in our present life to repay us for this loss?" There
are multitudes who can ask this question, and answer honestly, "Nothing." It is sad, but true,
that countless men and women have never found any thing in life which compensates them for
the loss of the simple animal enjoyment and content of childhood. Sickness, perhaps, has imposed
upon them years of pain. Poverty has condemned them to labor through every waking hour to win
sustenance for themselves and their dependents. The heart has been cheated of its idol. Friends
have proved false, and fortune fickle. Life has gone wrong through all the avenues of their
being. Yet there are others who, while looking with pleasure upon the innocent sports of animal
life, and recalling the simple joys of childhood with delight, are content with the lot of
manhood and womanhood, and would look upon a return to their simpler age as the greatest calamity
that could be inflicted upon them. With brows wrinkled by care and toil, and heads silvered
by premature age, and great burdens upon heart and brain, they glory in a life within and before
them, by the side of which the life of childhood is as flavorless and frivolous as that of a fly.

