With your unathletic constitution I think you will have a greater weight of glory to represent
than you can bear. You will be as épuisé as Princess Craon with all the triumphs over Niagara,
Ticonderoga, Crown-point, and such a parcel of long names. You will ruin yourself in French
horns, to exceed those of Marshal Botta, who has certainly found out a pleasant way of announcing
victories. Besides, all the West Indies, which we have taken by a panic, there is Admiral Boscawen
has demolished the Toulon squadron, and has made you Viceroy of the Mediterranean. I really
believe the French will come hither now, for they can be safe nowhere else. If the King of
Prussia should be totally undone in Germany,[1] we can afford to give him an appanage, as a
younger son of England, of some hundred thousand miles on the Ohio. Sure universal monarchy
was never so put to shame as that of France! What a figure do they make! They seem to have
no ministers, no generals, no soldiers! If anything could be more ridiculous than their behaviour
in the field, it would be in the cabinet! Their invasion appears not to have been designed
against us, but against their own people, who, they fear, will mutiny, and to quiet whom they
disperse expresses, with accounts of the progress of their arms in England. They actually have
established posts, to whom people are directed to send their letters for their friends in England.
If, therefore, you hear that the French have established themselves at Exeter or at Norwich,
don't be alarmed, nor undeceive the poor women who are writing to their husbands for English
baubles.

[Footnote 1: Frederic the Great had sustained a severe defeat at Hochkirch in October, 1758,
and a still more terrible one in August of this year from Marshals Laudon and Soltikof at Kunersdorf.
It seemed so irreparable that for a moment he even contemplated putting an end to his life;
but he was saved from the worst consequences of the blow by jealousies which sprang up between
the Austrian and Russian commanders, and preventing them from profiting by their victory as
they might have done.]

We have lost another Princess, Lady Elizabeth.[1] She died of an inflammation in her bowels
in two days. Her figure was so very unfortunate, that it would have been difficult for her
to be happy, but her parts and application were extraordinary. I saw her act in "Cato" at eight
years old, (when she could not stand alone, but was forced to lean against the side-scene,)
better than any of her brothers and sisters. She had been so unhealthy, that at that age she
had not been taught to read, but had learned the part of Lucia by hearing the others study
their parts. She went to her father and mother, and begged she might act. They put her off
as gently as they could--she desired leave to repeat her part, and when she did, it was with
so much sense, that there was no denying her.

[Footnote 1: Second daughter of Frederick, Prince of Wales.--WALPOLE.]

I receive yours of August 25. To all your alarms for the King of Prussia I subscribe. With
little Brandenburgh he could not exhaust all the forces of Bohemia, Hungary, Austria, Muscovy,
Siberia, Tartary, Sweden, &c., &c., &c.--but not to politicize too much, I believe the world
will come to be fought for somewhere between the North of Germany and the back of Canada, between
Count Daun and Sir William Johnson.[1]

[Footnote 1: Our General in America--WALPOLE.]

You guessed right about the King of Spain; he is dead, and the Queen Dowager may once more
have an opportunity of embroiling the little of Europe that remains unembroiled.

Thank you, my dear Sir, for the Herculaneum and Caserta that you are sending me. I wish the
watch may arrive safe, to show you that I am not insensible to all your attentions for me,
but endeavour, at a great distance, to imitate you in the execution of commissions.