FIFTY YEARS OF RAILWAY LIFE IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND AND IRELAND

by Joseph Tatlow

Director Midland Great Western Railway or Ireland and Dublin and Kingstown Railway; a Member
of Dominions Royal Commission, 1912-1917; late Manager Midland Great Western Railway, etc.

Published in 1920 by The Railway Gazette, Queens Anne's Chambers, Westminster, London, S.W.1.

[The Author: tatlow.jpg]

CONTENTS.

I.      Introductory
II.     Boyhood
III.    The Midland Railway and "King Hudson"
IV.     Fashions and Manners, Victorian Days
V.      Early Office Life
VI.     Friendship
VII.    Railway Progress
VIII.   Scotland, Glasgow Life, and the Caledonian Line
IX.     General Railway Acts of Parliament
X.      A General Manager and his Office
XI.     The Railway Jubilee, and Glasgow and South-Western Officers and
        Clerks
XII.    TOM
XIII.   Men I met and Friends I made
XIV.    Terminals, Rates and Fares, and other Matters
XV.     Further Railway Legislation
XVI.    Belfast and the County Down Railway
XVII.   Belfast and the County Down (continued)
XVIII.  Railway Rates and Charges, the Block, the Brake, and Light
        Railways
XIX.    Golf, the Diamond King, and a Steam-boat Service
XX.     The Midland Great Western Railway of Ireland
XXI.    Ballinasloe Fair, Galway, and Sir George Findlay
XXII.   A Railway Contest, the Parcel Post, and the Board of Trade
XXIII.  "The Railway News," the International Railway Congress, and a
        Trip to Spain and Portugal
XXIV.   Tom Robertson, more about Light Railways, and the Inland Transit
        of Cattle
XXV.    Railway Amalgamation and Constantinople
XXVI.   A Congress at Paris, the Progress of Irish Lines, Egypt and the
        Nile
XXVII.  King Edward, a Change of Chairmen, and more Railway Legislation
XXVIII. Vice-Regal Commission on Irish Railways, 1906-1910, and the
        Future of Railways
XXIX.   The General Managers' Conference, Gooday's Dinner, and Divers
        Matters
XXX.    From Manager to Director
XXXI.   The Dominions' Royal Commission, the Railways of the Dominions,
        and Empire Development
XXXII.  Conclusion

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

The Author George Hudson, the "Railway King" Sir James Allport W. J. Wainwright Edward John
Cotton Walter Bailey Sir Ralph Cusack, D. L. William Dargan The Dargan Saloon Sir George Findlay
Sir Theodore Martin The Gresham Salver

CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTORY

North-West Donegal.  A fine afternoon in September.  The mountain ranges were bathed in sunshine
and the scarred and seamy face of stern old Errigal seemed almost to smile.  A gentle breeze
stirred the air and the surface of the lakes lay shimmering in the soft autumnal light.  The
blue sky, flecked with white cloudlets, the purple of the heather, the dark hues of the bogs,
the varied greens of bracken, ferns and grass, the gold of ripening grain, and the grey of
the mountain boulders, together formed a harmony of colour which charmed the eye and soothed
the mind.

I had been travelling most of the day by railway through this delightful country, not by an
express that rushed you through the scenery with breathless haste, but by an easy-going mixed
train which called at every station.  Sometimes its speed reached twenty-five miles an hour,
but never more, and because of numerous curves and gradients--for it was a narrow gauge and
more or less a surface line--the rate of progress was much less during the greater part of
the journey.

The work of the day was over.  My companion and I had dined at the Gweedore Hotel, where we
were staying for the night.  With the setting sun the breeze had died away.  Perfect stillness
and a silence deep, profound and all-pervading reigned.  I had been talking, as an old pensioner
will talk, of byegone times, of my experiences in a long railway career, and my companion,
himself a rising railway man, seemed greatly interested.  As we sauntered along, the conversation
now and again lapsing into a companionable silence, he suddenly said: "Why don't you write
your reminiscences?  They would be very interesting, not only to us younger railway men, but
to men of your own time too."  Until that moment I had never seriously thought of putting my
reminiscences on record, but my friend's words fell on favourable ground, and now, less than
a month since that night in Donegal, I am sitting at my desk penning these opening lines.

That my undertaking will not be an easy one I know.  My memory is well stored, but unfortunately
I have never kept a diary or commonplace book of any kind.  On the contrary a love of order
and neatness, carried to absurd excess, has always led me to destroy accumulated letters or
documents, and much that would be useful now has in the past, from time to time, been destroyed
and "cast as rubbish to the void."

Most autobiographies, I suppose, are undertaken to please the writers. That this is the case
with me I frankly confess; but I hope that what I find much pleasure in writing my readers
may, at least, find some satisfaction in reading.  Vanity, perhaps, plays some part in this
hope, for, "He that is pleased with himself easily imagines that he shall please others."

I am not sure that portraits of the artist by himself, though there are notable and noble instances
to the contrary, are often successful.  We rarely "see oursels as ithers see us," and are inclined
to regard our virtues and our vices with equal equanimity, and to paint ourselves in too alluring
colours; but I will do my best to tell my tale with strict veracity, and with all the modesty
I can muster.

An autobiographer, too, exposes himself to the charge of egotism, but I must run the risk of
that, endeavouring to avoid the scathing criticism of him who wrote:--

    "The egotist . . . . . . .
   Whose I's and Me's are scattered in his talk,
   Thick as the pebbles on a gravel walk."

Fifty years of railway life, passed in the service of various companies, large and small, in
England, Scotland and Ireland, in divers' capacities, from junior clerk to general manager,
and ultimately to the ease and dignity of director, if faithfully presented, may perhaps, in
spite of all drawbacks, be not entirely devoid of interest.

CHAPTER II. BOYHOOD

I was born at Sheffield, on Good Friday, in the year 1851, and my only sister was born on a
Christmas Day.

My father was in the service of the Midland Railway, as also were two of his brothers, one
of whom was the father of the present General Manager of the Midland.  When I was but ten months
old my father was promoted to the position of accountants' inspector at headquarters and removed
from Sheffield to Derby.  Afterwards, whilst I was still very young, he became Goods Agent
at Birmingham, and lived there for a few years.  He then returned to Derby, where he became
head of the Mineral Office.  He remained with the Midland until 1897, when he retired on superannuation
at the age of seventy-six.  Except, therefore, for an interval of about three years my childhood
and youth were spent at Derby.

My earliest recollection in connection with railways is my first railway journey, which took
place when I was four years of age.  I recollect it well.  It was from Derby to Birmingham.
How the wonder of it all impressed me!  The huge engine, the wonderful carriages, the imposing
guard, the busy porters and the bustling station.  The engine, no doubt, was a pigmy, compared
with the giants of to-day; the carriages were small, modest four-wheelers, with low roofs,
and diminutive windows after the manner of old stage coaches, but to me they were palatial.
I travelled first-class on a pass with my father, and great was my juvenile pride.  Our luggage,
I remember, was carried on the roof of the carriage in the good old-fashioned coaching style.
Four-wheeled railway carriages are, I was going to say, a thing of the past; but that is not
so.  Though gradually disappearing, many are running still, mainly on branch lines--in England
nearly five thousand; in Scotland over four hundred; and in poor backward Ireland (where, by
the way, railways are undeservedly abused) how many?  Will it be believed--practically none,
not more than twenty in the whole island!  All but those twenty have been scrapped long ago.
Well done Ireland!

From the earliest time I can remember, and until well-advanced in manhood, I was delicate in
health, troubled with a constant cough, thin and pale.  In consequence I was often absent from
school; and prevented also from sharing, as I should, and as every child should, in out-door
games and exercises, to my great disadvantage then and since, for proficiency is only gained
by early training, and unfortunate is he whose circumstances have deprived him of that advantage.
How often, since those early days, have I looked with envious eyes on pastimes in which I could
not engage, or only engage with the consciousness of inferiority.

I have known men who, handicapped in this way, have in after life, by strong will and great
application, overcome their disabilities and become good cricketers, great at tennis, proficient
at golf, strong swimmers, skilful shots; but they have been exceptional men with a strong natural
inclination to athletics.

The only active physical recreations in which I have engaged with any degree of pleasure are
walking, riding, bicycling and skating.  Riding I took to readily enough as soon as I was able
to afford it; and, if my means had ever allowed indulgence in the splendid pastime of hunting,
I would have followed the hounds, not, I believe, without some spirit and boldness.  My natural
disposition I know inclined me to sedentary pursuits: reading, writing, drawing, painting,
though, happily, the tendency was corrected to some extent by a healthy love of Nature's fair
features, and a great liking for country walks.

In drawing and painting, though I had a certain natural aptitude for both, I never attained
much proficiency in either, partly for lack of instruction, partly from want of application,
but more especially, I believe, because another, more alluring, more mentally exciting occupation
beguiled me.  It was not music, though to music close allied. This new-found joy I long pursued
in secret, afraid lest it should be discovered and despised as a folly.  It was not until I
lived in Scotland, where poetical taste and business talent thrive side by side, and where,
as Mr. Spurgeon said, "no country in the world produced so many poets," that I became courageous,
and ventured to avow my dear delight.  It was there that I sought, with some success, publication
in various papers and magazines of my attempts at versification, for versification it was that
so possessed my fancy.  Of the spacious times of great Elizabeth it has been written, "the
power of action and the gift of song did not exclude each other," but in England, in mid-Victorian
days, it was looked upon differently, or so at least I believed.

After a time I had the distinction of being included in a new edition of Recent and Living
Scottish Poets, by Alexander Murdoch, published in 1883.  My inclusion was explained on the
ground that, "His muse first awoke to conscious effort on Scottish soil," which, though not
quite in accordance with fact, was not so wide of the mark that I felt in the least concerned
to criticise the statement.  I was too much enamoured of the honour to question the foundation
on which it rested.  Perhaps it was as well deserved as are some others of this world's distinctions!
At any rate it was neither begged nor bought, but came "Like Dian's kiss, unasked, unsought."
In the same year (1883) I also appeared in Edwards' Sixth Series of Modern Scottish Poets;
and in 1885, more legitimately, in William Andrews' book on Modern Yorkshire Poets.  My claim
for this latter distinction was not, however, any greater, if as great, as my right to inclusion
in the collection of Scottish Poets.  If I "lisped in numbers," it was not in Yorkshire, for
Yorkshire I left for ever before even the first babblings of babyhood began.  However, "kissing
goes by favour," and I was happy in the favour I enjoyed.

I may as well say it here: with my poetical productions I was never satisfied any more than
with my attempts at drawing.  My verses seemed mere farthing dips compared with the resplendent
poetry of our country which I read and loved, but my efforts employed and brightened many an
hour in my youth that otherwise would have been tedious and dreary.

Ours was a large family, nine children in all; nothing unusual in those days.  "A quiver full"
was then a matter of parental pride.  Woman was more satisfied with home life then than now.
The pursuit of pleasure was not so keen.  Our parents and our grandparents were simpler in
their tastes, more easily amused, more readily impressed with the wonderful and the strange.
Things that would leave us unmoved were to them matters of moment.  Railways were new and railway
travelling was, to most people, an event.

Our fathers talked of their last journey to London, their visit to the Tower, to Westminster
Abbey, the Monument, Madame Tussauds; how they mistook the waxwork policeman for a real member
of the force; how they shuddered in the Chamber of Horrors; how they travelled on the new Underground
Railway; and saw the wonders of the Crystal Palace, especially on fireworks night.  They told
us of their visit to the Great Eastern, what a gigantic ship it was, what a marvel, and described
its every feature.  They talked of General Tom Thumb, of Blondin, of Pepper's Ghost, of the
Christy Minstrels.  Nowadays, a father will return from London and not even mention the Tubes
to his children.  Why should he? They know all about them and are surprised at nothing.  The
picture books and the cinemas have familiarised them with every aspect of modern life.

In those days our pleasures and our amusements were fewer, but impressed us more.  I remember
how eagerly the coloured pictures of the Christmas numbers of the pictorial papers were looked
forward to, talked of, criticised, admired, framed and hung up.  I remember too, the excitements
of Saint Valentine's Day, Shrove Tuesday, April Fool's Day, May Day and the Morris (Molly)
dancers; and the Fifth of November, Guy Fawkes Day.  I remember also the peripatetic knife
grinder and his trundling machine, the muffin man, the pedlar and his wares, the furmity wheat
vendor, who trudged along with his welcome cry of "Frummitty!" from door to door. Those were
pleasant and innocent excitements.  We have other things to engage us now, but I sometimes
think all is not gain that the march of progress brings.

Young people then had fewer books to read, but read them thoroughly.  What excitement and discussion
attended the monthly instalments of Dickens' novels in All the Year Round; how eagerly they
were looked for.  Lucky he or she who had heard the great master read himself in public.  His
books were read in our homes, often aloud to the family circle by paterfamilias, and moved
us to laughter or tears.  I never now see our young people, or their elders either, affected
by an author as we were then by the power of Dickens.  He was a new force and his pages kindled
in our hearts a vivid feeling for the poor and their wrongs.

