Real men arose, we believe, by variational uplifts of considerable magnitude which led to big
and complex brains and to the power of reasoned discourse. In some other lines of mammalian
evolution there were from time to time great advances in the size and complexity of the brain,
as is clear, for instance, in the case of horses and elephants. The same is true of birds as
compared with reptiles, and everyone recognises the high level of excellence that has been
attained by their vocal powers. How these great cerebral advances came about we do not know,
but it has been one of the main trends of animal evolution to improve the nervous system. Two
suggestions may be made. First, the prolongation of the period of ante-natal life, in intimate
physiological partnership with the mother, may have made it practicable to start the higher
mammal with a much better brain than in the lower orders, like Insectivores and Rodents, and
still more Marsupials, where the period before birth (gestation) is short. Second, we know
that the individual development of the brain is profoundly influenced by the internal secretions
of certain ductless glands notably the thyroid. When this organ is not functioning properly
the child's brain development is arrested. It may be that increased production of certain hormones--itself,
of course, to be accounted for--may have stimulated brain development in man's remote ancestors.

Given variability along the line of better brains and given a process of discriminate sifting
which would consistently offer rewards to alertness and foresight, to kin-sympathy and parental
care, there seems no great difficulty in imagining how Man would evolve. We must not think
of an Aristotle or a Newton except as fine results which justify all the groaning and travailing;
we must think of average men, of primitive peoples to-day, and of our forbears long ago. We
must remember how much of man's advance is dependent on the external registration of the social
heritage, not on the slowly changing natural inheritance.

Looking backwards it is impossible, we think, to fail to recognise progress. There is a ring
of truth in the fine description Æschylus gave of primitive men that--

    first, beholding they beheld in vain, and, hearing, heard not, but,
    like shapes in dreams, mixed all things wildly down the tedious
    time, nor knew to build a house against the sun with wicketed sides,
    nor any woodwork knew, but lived like silly ants, beneath the
    ground, in hollow caves unsunned. There came to them no steadfast
    sign of winter, nor of spring flower-perfumed, nor of summer full of
    fruit, but blindly and lawlessly they did all things.

Contrast this picture with the position of man to-day. He has mastered the forces of Nature
and is learning to use their resources more and more economically; he has harnessed electricity
to his chariot and he has made the ether carry his messages. He tapped supplies of material
which seemed for centuries unavailable, having learned, for instance, how to capture and utilise
the free nitrogen of the air. With his telegraph and "wireless" he has annihilated distance,
and he has added to his navigable kingdom the depths of the sea and the heights of the air.
He has conquered one disease after another, and the young science of heredity is showing him
how to control in his domesticated animals and cultivated plants the nature of the generations
yet unborn. With all his faults he has his ethical face set in the right direction. The main
line of movement is towards the fuller embodiment of the true, the beautiful, and the good
in healthy lives which are increasingly a satisfaction in themselves.

Factors in Human Progress

