For palæontology, zoölogy, history, social and political science, and philosophy are really
only parts of one great science, of biology in the widest sense, in distinction from the narrower
sense in which it is now used to include zoölogy and botany. They form an organic unity in
which no one part can be adequately understood without reference to the others. You know nothing
of even a constellation, if you have studied only one of its stars. Much less can the study
of a single organ or function give an adequate idea of the human body.

Only when we have attained a biological history can we have any satisfactory conception of
environment. As we look about us in the world, environment often seems to us to be a chaos
of forces aiding or destroying good and bad, fit and unfit, alike.

But our history of animal and human progress shows us successive stages, each a little higher
than the preceding, and surviving, for a time at least, because more completely conformed to
environment. If this be true, and it must be true unless our theory of evolution be false,
higher forms are more completely conformed to their environment than lower; and man has attained
the most complete conformity of all. Our biological history is therefore a record of the results
of successive efforts, each attaining a little more complete conformity than the preceding.
From such a history we ought to be able to draw certain valid deductions concerning the general
character and laws of our environment, to discover the direction in which its forces are urging
us, and how man can more completely conform to it.

If man is a product of evolution, his mental and moral, just as really as his physical, development
must be the result of such a conformity. The study of environment from this standpoint should
throw some light on the validity of our moral and religious creeds and theories. It would seem,
therefore, not only justifiable, but imperative to attempt such a study.

Our argument is not directly concerned with modern theories of heredity, or variation, or with
the "omnipotence" or secondary importance of natural selection. And yet Nägeli, and especially
Weismann, have had so marked an influence on modern thought that we cannot afford to neglect
their theories. We will briefly notice these in the closing chapter.

CHAPTER I

THE PROBLEM: THE MODE OF ITS SOLUTION

The story of a human life can be told in very few words. A youth of golden dreams and visions;
a few years of struggle or of neglected opportunities; then retrospect and the end.

        "We come like water, and like wind we go."

But how few of the visions are realized. Faust sums up the whole of life in the twice-repeated
word versagen, renounce, and history tells a similar story. Terah died in Haran; Abraham obtained
but a grave in the land promised him and his children; Jacob, cheated in marriage, bitterly
disappointed in his children, died in exile, leaving his descendants to become slaves in the
land of Egypt; and Moses, their heroic deliverer, died in the mountains of Moab in sight of
the land which he was forbidden to enter. You may answer that it is no injury that the promise
is too large, the vision too grand, to be fulfilled in the span of a single life, but must
become the heritage of a race. But what has been the history of Abraham's descendants? A death-grapple
for existence, captivity, and dispersion. Their national existence has long been lost.

Was there ever a nation of grander promise than Greece or Rome? But Greece died of premature
old age, and Rome of rottenness begotten of sin. But each of them, you will say, left a priceless
heritage to the immortal race. But if Greece and Rome and a host of older nations, of which
History has often forgotten the very name, have failed and died, can anything but ultimate
failure await the race? Is human history to prove a story told by an idiot, or does it "signify"
something? Is the great march of humanity, which Carlyle so vividly depicts, "from the inane
to the inane, or from God to God?"

This is the sphinx question put to every thinking man, and on his answer hangs his life. For
according to that answer, he will either flinch and turn back, or expend every drop of blood
and grain of power in urging on the march.

To this question the Bible gives a clear and emphatic answer. "God created man in his own image,"
and then, as if men might refuse to believe so astounding a statement, it is repeated, "in
the image of God created he him." When, and by what mode or process, man was created we are
not told. His origin is condensed almost into a line, his present and future occupy all the
rest of the book. Whence we came is important only in so far as it teaches us humility and
yet assures us that we may be Godlike because we are His handiwork and children, "heirs of
God and joint heirs with Christ of a heavenly inheritance."

Now has Science any answer to this vital question? Perhaps. But this much is certain; it can
foretell the future only from the past. Its answer to the question whither must be an inference
from its knowledge as to whence we have come. The Bible looks mainly at the present and future;
Science must at least begin with the study of the past. The deciphering of man's past history
is the great aim of Biology, and ultimately of all Science. For the question of Man's past
is only a part of a greater question, the origin of all living species.

We may say broadly that concerning the origin of species two theories, and only two, seem possible.
The first theory is that every species is the result of an act of immediate creation. And every
true species, however slightly it may differ from its nearest relative, represents such a creative
act, and once created is practically unchangeable. This is the theory of immutability of species.
According to the second theory all higher, probably all present existing, species are only
mediately the result of a creative act. The first living germ, whenever and however created,
was infused with power to give birth to higher species. Of these and their descendants some
would continue to advance, others would degenerate. Each theory demands equally for its ultimate
explanation a creative act; the second as much as, if not more than, the first. According to
the first theory the creative power has been distributed over a series of acts, according to
the second theory it has been concentrated in one primal creation. The second is the theory
of the mutability of species, or, in general, of evolution, but not necessarily of Darwinism alone.

The first theory is considered by many the more attractive and hopeful. Now a theory need not
be attractive, nor at first sight appear hopeful, provided only it is true. But let me call
your attention to certain conclusions which, as it appears to me, are necessarily involved
in it. Its central thought is the practical immutability of species. Each one of these lives
its little span of time, for species are usually comparatively short-lived, grows possibly
a very little better or worse, and dies. Its progress has added nothing to the total of life;
its degeneration harmed no one, hardly even itself; it was doomed from the start. Progress
there has been, in a sense. The Creator has placed ever higher forms on the globe. But all
the progress lies in the gaps and distances between successive forms, not in any advance made,
or victory won, by the species or individual. The most "aspiring ape," if ever there was such
a being, remains but an ape. He must comfort himself with the thought that, while he and his
descendants can never gain an inch, the gap between himself and the next higher form shall
be far greater than that between himself and the lowest monkey.

And if this has been the history of thousands of other species, why should it not be true of
man also? Who can wonder that many who accept this theory doubt whether the world is growing
any better, or whether even man will ever be higher and better than he now is? Would it not
be contrary to the whole course of past history, if you can properly call such a record a history,
if he could advance at all? Now I have no wish to misrepresent this or any honestly accepted
theory, but it appears to me essentially hopeless, a record not of the progress of life on
the globe, but of a succession of stagnations, of deaths. I can never understand why some very
good and intelligent people still think that the theory of the immediate creation of each species
does more honor to the Creator and his creation than the theory of evolution. Evolution is
a process, not a force. The power of the Creator is equally demanded in both cases; only it
is differently distributed. And evolution is the very highest proof of the wisdom and skill
of the Creator. It elevates our views of the living beings, must it not give a higher conception
of Him who formed them?

The plant in its first stages shows no trace of flowers, but of leaves only. Later a branch
or twig, similar in structure to all the rest, shortens. The cells and tissues which in other
twigs turn into green leaves here become the petals and other organs of the rose or violet.
Let us suppose for a moment that every rose and violet required a special act of immediate
creation, would the springtime be as wonderful as now? Would the rose or violet be any more
beautiful, or are they any less flowers because developed out of that which might have remained
a common branch? The plant at least is glorified by the power to give rise to such beauty.
And is not the creation of the seed of a violet or rose something infinitely grander than the
decking of a flowerless plant with newly created roses? The attainment of the highest and most
diversified beauty and utility with the fewest and simplest means is always the sign of what
we call in man "creative" genius. Is not the same true of God? I think you all feel the force
of the argument here.

There were at one time no flowering plants. The time came at last for their appearance. Which
is the higher, grander mode of producing them, immediate creation of every flowering species,
or development of the flower out of the green leaves of some old club moss or similar form?
The latter seems to me at least by far the higher mode. And to have created a ground-pine which
could give rise to a rose seems far more difficult and greater than to have created both separately.
It requires more genius, so to speak. It gives us a far higher opinion of the ground-pine;
does it disgrace the rose? We can look dispassionately at plants. The rose is still and always
a rose, and the oak an oak, whatever its origin. And I believe that we shall all readily admit
that evolution is here a theory which does the highest honor to the wisdom and power of the
Creator. What if the animal kingdom is continually blossoming in ever higher forms? Does not
the same reasoning hold true, only with added force? I firmly believe that we should all unhesitatingly
answer, yes, could we but be assured that all men would everywhere and always believe that
we, men, were the results of an immediate creative act.

But why do we so strenuously object to the application to ourselves of the theory of evolution?
One or two reasons are easily seen. We have all of us a great deal of innate snobbery, we would
rather have been born great than to have won greatness by the most heroic struggle. But is
man any less a man for having arisen from something lower, and being in a fair way to become
something higher? Certainly not, unless I am less a man for having once been a baby. It is
only when I am unusually cross and irritable that I object to being reminded of my infancy.
But a young child does not like to be reminded of it. He is afraid that some one will take
him for a baby still. And the snob is always desperately afraid that some one will fail to
notice what a high-born gentleman he is.

Now man can relapse into something lower than a brute; the only genuine brute is a degenerate
man. And we all recognize the strength of tendencies urging us downward. Is not this the often
unrecognized kern of our eagerness for some mark or stamp that shall prove to all that we are
no apes, but men? It is not the pure gold that needs the "guinea stamp." If we are men, and
as we become men, we shall cease to fear the theory of evolution. Now this is not the only,
or perhaps the greatest, objection which men feel or speak against the theory. But I must believe
that it has more weight with us than we are willing to admit.

But some say that the theory of immediate creation and immutability of species is the more
natural and has always been accepted, while the theory of evolution is new and very likely
to be as short-lived as many another theory which has for a time fascinated men only to be
forgotten or ridiculed.

But the idea of evolution is as old as Hindu philosophy. The old Ionic natural philosophers
were all evolutionists. So Aristophanes, quoting from these or Hesiod concerning the origin
of things, says: "Chaos was and Night, and Erebus black, and wide Tartarus. No earth, nor air
nor sky was yet; when, in the vast bosom of Erebus (or chaotic darkness) winged Night brought
forth first of all the egg, from which in after revolving periods sprang Eros (Love) the much
desired, glittering with golden wings; and Eros again, in union with Chaos, produced the brood
of the human race." Here the formative process is a birth, not a creation; it is evolution
pure and simple. "According to the ancient view," says Professor Lewis, "the present world
was a growth; it was born, it came from something antecedent, not merely as a cause but as
its seed, embryo or principium. Plato's world was a 'zoon,' a living thing, a natural production."

Furthermore, to the ancient writers of the Bible the idea of origin by birth from some antecedent
form--and this is the essential idea of evolution--was perfectly natural. They speak of the
"generations of the heavens and the earth" as of the "generations" of the patriarchs. The first
book of the Bible is still called Genesis, the book of births. The writer of the ninetieth
Psalm says, "Before the mountains were born, or ever thou hadst brought to birth the earth
and the world." And what satisfactory meaning can you give to the words, "Let the earth bring
forth," and "the earth brought forth," in immediate proximity to the words, "and God made,"
unless while the ultimate source was God's creative power, the immediate process of formation
was one of evolution.

The Bible is big and broad enough to include both ideas, the human mind is prone to overestimate
the one or the other. Traces, at least, of a similar mode of thought persisted by the Greek
Fathers of the Church, and disappeared, if ever, with the predominance of Latin theology. To
the oriental the idea of evolution is natural. The earth is to him no inert, resistant clod;
she brings forth of herself.

