Now there are these things considerable in the carriage of a wife toward her husband, which
she ought conscientiously to observe.

First, That she look upon him as her head and lord. 'The head of the woman is the man' (1 Cor
11:3). And so Sarah called Abraham lord (1 Peter 3:6).

Second, She should therefore be subject to him, as is fit in the Lord. The apostle saith, 'That
the wife should submit herself to her husband, as to the Lord' 12 (1 Peter 3:1; Col 3:18; Eph
5:22). I told you before, that if the husband doth walk towards his wife as becomes him, he
will therein be such an ordinance of God to her, besides the relation of a husband, that shall
preach to her the carriage of Christ to his church. And now I say also, that the wife, if she
walk with her husband as becomes her, she shall preach the obedience of the church to her husband.
'Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands
in everything' (Eph 5:24). Now for thy performing of this work, thou must first shun these evils.

1. The evil of a wandering and a gossiping spirit; this is evil in the church, and is evil
also in a wife, who is the figure of a church. Christ loveth to have his spouse keep at home;
that is, to be with him in the faith and practice of his things, not ranging and meddling with
the things of Satan; no more should wives be given to wander and gossip abroad.

2. Take heed of an idle, talking, or brangling tongue. This also is odious, either in maids
or wives, to be like parrots, not bridling their tongue; whereas the wife should know, as I
said before, that her husband is her lord, and is over her, as Christ is over the church. Do
you think it is seemly for the church to parrot it against her husband? Is she not to be silent
before him, and to look to his laws, rather than her own fictions? Why so, saith the apostle,
ought the wife to carry it towards her husband? It is an unseemly thing to see a woman so much
as once in all her lifetime to offer to overtop her husband; she ought in everything to be
in subjection to him, and to do all she doth, as having her warrant, licence, and authority
from him. And indeed here is her glory, even to be under him, as the church is under Christ:
Now 'she openeth her mouth with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness' (Prov 31:26).

3. Take heed of affecting immodest apparel, or a wanton gait; this will be evil both abroad
and at home; abroad, it will not only give ill example, but also tend to tempt to lust and
lasciviousness; and at home it will give an offence to a godly husband, and be cankering to
ungodly children, &c. Wherefore, as saith the apostle, Let women's apparel be modest, as becometh
women professing godliness, with good works, 'not with broidered hair, or gold, or pearls,
or costly array' (1 Tim 2:9, 10).

But yet, do not think that by the subjection I have here mentioned, that I do intend women
should be their husbands' slaves. Women are their husbands' yokefellows, their flesh and their
bones; and he is not a man that hateth his own flesh, or that is bitter against it (Eph 5:29).
The wife is master next her husband, and is to rule all in his absence; 13 yea, in his presence
she is to guide the house, to bring up the children, provided she so do it, as the adversary
have no occasion to speak reproachfully (1 Tim 5:10, 13). 'Who can find a virtuous woman? for
her price is far above rubies. A gracious woman retaineth honour:' and guideth her affairs
with discretion (Prov 31:10; 11:16; 12:4).

Object.

But my husband is an unbeliever; what shall I do?

Answer.

If so, then what I have said before lieth upon thee with an engagement so much the stronger.
For, 1. Thy husband being in this condition, he will be watchful to take thy slips and infirmities,
to throw them as dirt in the face of God and thy Saviour. 2. He will be apt to make the worst
of every one of thy words, carriages, and gestures. 3. Thy husband's salvation or damnation
lieth much in thy deportment and behaviour before him; wherefore, if there be in thee any fear
of God, or love to thy husband, seek, by a carriage full of meekness, modesty, and holiness,
and a humble behaviour before him, to win him to the love of his own salvation; and by thus
doing, how 'knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband?' (1 Cor 7:16).

Object.

But my husband is not only an unbeliever, but one very froward, peevish, and testy, yea, so
froward, &c., that I know not how to speak to him, or behave myself before him.

Answer.

Indeed there are some wives in great slavery by reason of their ungodly husbands; and as such
should be pitied, and prayed for; so they should be so much the more watchful and circumspect
in all their ways.

1. Therefore be thou very faithful to him in all the things of this life.

2. Bear with patience his unruly and unconverted behaviour; thou art alive, he is dead; thou
art principled with grace, he with sin. Now, then, seeing grace is stronger than sin, and virtue
than vice; be not overcome with his vileness, but overcome that with thy virtues (Rom 12:21).
It is a shame for those that are gracious to be as lavishing in their words, &c., as those
that are graceless: They that are 'slow to wrath are of great understanding; but they that
are hasty of spirit, exalteth folly' (Prov 14:29).

3. Thy wisdom, therefore, if at any time thou hast a desire to speak to thy husband for his
conviction, concerning anything, either good or evil, it is to observe convenient times and
seasons: There is 'a time to keep silence, and a time to speak' (Eccl 3:7). Now for the right
timing thy intentions,

(1.) Consider his disposition; and take him when he is farthest off of those filthy passions
that are thy afflictions. Abigail would not speak a word to her churlish husband till his wine
was gone from him, and he in a sober temper (1 Sam 25:36, 37). The want of this observation
is the cause why so much is spoken, and so little effected. 14

(2.) Take him at those times when he hath his heart taken with thee, and when he showeth tokens
of love and delight in thee. Thus did Esther with the king her husband, and prevailed (Ester
5:3, 6; 7:1, 2).

(3.) Observe when convictions seize his conscience, and then follow them with sound and grave
sayings of the Scriptures. Somewhat like to this dealt Manoah's wife with her husband (Judg
13:22, 23). Yet then,

(a) Let thy words be few.

(b) And none of them savouring of a lording it over him; but speak thou still as to thy head
and lord, by way of entreaty and beseeching.

(c) And that in such a spirit of sympathy, and bowels of affection after his good, that the
manner of thy speech and behaviour in speaking may be to him an argument that thou speakest
in love, as being sensible of his misery, and inflamed in thy soul with desire after his conversion.

(d) And follow thy words and behaviour with prayers to God for his soul.

(e) Still keeping thyself in a holy, chaste, and modest behaviour before him.

Object.

But my husband is a sot, a fool, and one that hath not wit enough to follow his outward employment
in the world.

Answer.

1. Though all this be true, yet thou must know he is thy head, thy lord, and thy husband.

2. Therefore thou must take heed of desiring to usurp authority over him. He was not made for
thee; that is, for thee to have dominion over him, but to be thy husband, and to rule over
thee (1 Tim 2:12; 1 Cor 11:3, 8).

3. Wherefore, though in truth thou mayest have more discretion than he, yet thou oughtest to
know that thou, with all that is thine, is to be used as under thy husband; even 'every thing'
(Eph 5:24). Take heed therefore, that what thou dost goes not in thy name, but his; not to
thy exaltation, but his; carrying all things so, by thy dexterity and prudence, that not one
of thy husband's weaknesses be discovered to others by thee: 'A virtuous woman is a crown to
her husband: but she that maketh ashamed, is as rottenness in his bones.' For then, as the
wise man sayeth, 'she will do him good and not evil, all the days of her life' (Prov 12:4; 31:12).

4. Therefore act, and do still, as being under the power and authority of thy husband.

Now touching thy carriage to thy children and servants. Thou art a parent, and a mistress,
and so thou oughtest to demean thyself. And besides, seeing the believing woman is a figure
of the church, she ought, as the church, to nourish and instruct her children, and servants,
as the church, that she may answer in that particular also; and truly, the wife being always
at home, she hath great advantage that way; wherefore do it, and the Lord prosper your proceeding.

DUTIES OF CHILDREN TO PARENTS.

There lieth also a duty upon children to their parents, which they are bound both by the law
of God and nature conscientiously to observe: 'Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for
this is right.' And again, 'Children, obey your parents in all things; for this is well pleasing
unto the Lord' (Eph 6:1; Col 3:20).

There are these general things in which children should show forth that honour that is due
to their parents from them.

First, They should always count them better than themselves. I observe a vile spirit among
some children, and that is, they are apt to look over their parents, and to have slighting
and scornful thoughts of them. This is worse than heathenish; such an one hath got just the
heart of a dog or a beast, that will bite those that begot them, and her that brought them forth.

Object.

But my father, &c., is now poor, and I am rich, and it will be a disparagement, or at least
a hinderance to me, to show that respect to him as otherwise I might.

Answer. Must a gift, and a little of the glory of the butterfly, make thee that thou shalt
not do for, and honour to, thy father and mother? 'A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish
man despiseth his mother' (Prov 15:20).

Second, Thou oughtest to show thy honour to thy parents, by a willingness to help them with
such necessaries and accommodations which they need. 'If anyhave children or nephews, let them
learn to show piety 15 at home, and to requite their parents:' saith Paul, 'for that is good
and acceptable before God' (1 Tim 5:4). And this rule Joseph observed to his poor father, though
he himself was next the king in Egypt (Gen 47:12; 41:39-44).

But mark, let them 'requite their parents.' There are three things for which, as long as thou
livest, thou wilt be a debtor to thy parents.

1. For thy being in this world. They are they from whom, immediately under God, thou didst
receive it.

2. For their care to preserve thee when thou wast helpless, and couldst neither care for, nor
regard thyself.

3. For the pains they have taken with thee to bring thee up. Until thou hast children of thy
own, thou wilt not be sensible of the pains, watchings, fears, sorrow, and affliction, that
they have gone under to bring thee up; and when thou knowest it, thou wilt not easily yield
that thou has recompensed them for thy favour to thee. How often have they sustained [thee
in] thy hunger, clothed thy nakedness? What care have they taken that thou mightest have wherewith
to live and do well when they were dead and gone? They possibly have spared it from their own
belly and back for thee, and have also impoverished themselves, that thou mightest live like
a man. 16 All these things ought duly, and like a man, to be considered by thee; and care ought
to be taken on thy part to requite them. The Scripture saith so, reason saith so, and there
be none but dogs and beasts that deny it. It is the duty of parents to lay up for their children;
and the duty of children to requite their parents.

Third, Therefore show, by all humble and son-like carriage, that thou dost to this day, with
thy heart, remember the love of thy parents. Thus much for obedience to parents in general.

Again, if thy parents be godly, and thou wicked, as thou art, if thou hast not a second work
or birth from God upon thee, then thou art to consider, that thou art more strongly engaged
to respect and honour thy parents, not now only as a father in the flesh, but as godly parents;
thy father and mother are now made of God thy teachers and instructors in the way of righteousness.
Wherefore, to allude to that of Solomon, 'My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake
not the law of thy mother; bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck'
(Prov 6:20, 21).

Now, to provoke thee hereto, consider,

1. That this hath been the practice always of those that are and have been obedient children;
yea, of Christ himself to Joseph and Mary, though he himself was God blessed for ever (Luke 2:51).

2. Thou hast also the severe judgments of God upon those that have been disobedient, to awe
thee. As, (1.) Ishmael, for but mocking at one good carriage of his father and mother, was
both thrust out of his father's inheritance and the kingdom of heaven, and that with God's
approbation (Gen 21:9-14; Gal 4:30). (2.) Hophni and Phinehas, for refusing the good counsel
of their father, provoked the great God to be their enemy: 'They hearkened not unto the voice
of their father, because the Lord would slay them' (1 Sam 2:23-25). (3.) Absalom was hanged,
as I may say, by God himself, for rebelling against his father (2 Sam 18:9).

Besides, little dost thou know how heart-aching a consideration it is to thy parents, when
they do but suppose thou mayest be damned! How many prayers, sighs, and tears, are there wrung
from their hearts upon this account? Every miscarriage of thine goeth to their heart, for fear
God should take an occasion thereat to shut thee up in hardness for ever. How did Abraham groan
for Ishmael? 'O,' saith he, to God, 'that Ishmael might live before thee!' (Gen 17:18). How
was Isaac and Rebecca grieved for the miscarriage of Esau? (Gen 26:34, 35). And how bitterly
did David mourn for his son, who died in his wickedness? (2 Sam 18:32, 33).

Lastly, And can any imagine, but that all these carriages of thy godly parents, will be to
thee the increase of thy torments in hell, if thou die in thy sins notwithstanding?

Again, if thy parents, and thou also, be godly, how happy a thing is this? How shouldest thou
rejoice, that the same faith should dwell both in thy parents and thee? Thy conversion, possibly,
is the fruits of thy parents' groans and prayers for thy soul; and they cannot choose but rejoice;
do thou rejoice with them. Let therefore the consideration of this, that thy parents have grace,
as well as thee, engage thy heart so much the more to honour, reverence, and obey them.

Thou art better able now to consider the pains and care that thy friends have been at, both
for thy body and soul; wherefore strive to requite them. Thou hast strength to answer in some
measure the command: wherefore do not neglect it. It is a double sin in a gracious son not
to remember the commandment, yea, the first commandment with promise (Eph 6:1, 2). Take heed
of giving thy sweet parents one snappish word, or one unseemly carriage. Love them because
they are thy parents, because they are godly, and because thou must be in glory with them.

Again, if thou be godly, and thy parents wicked, as often it sadly falls out; then,

1. Let thy bowels yearn towards them; it is thy parents that are going to hell!

2. As I said before to the wife, touching her unbelieving husband, so now I say to thee, Take
heed of a parroting tongue: speak to them wisely, meekly, and humbly; do for them faithfully
without repining; and bear, with all child-like modesty, their reproaches, their railing, and
evil speaking. Watch fit opportunities to lay their condition before them. O! how happy a thing
would it be, if God should use a child to beget his father to the faith! Then indeed might
the father say, With the fruit of my own bowels hath God converted my soul. The Lord, if it
be his will, convert our poor parents, that they, with us, may be the children of God. 17

CONCERNING SERVANTS.

Servants also, they have a work to do for God, in their place and station among men.

The apostles assert masters under a threefold consideration. First, The believing master. Second,
The unbelieving master. Third, The froward master.

For all which, servants are furnished with counsel and advice in the word, for the demeaning
of themselves, under each of them.

But before I speak in particular to any of these, I will in general show you the duty of servants.

1. Thou art to look upon thyself as thou art; that is, as a servant, not a child, nor a wife;
thou art inferior to these; wherefore count thyself under them, and be content with that station.
'For three things the earth is disquieted, and for four which it cannot bear.' One is 'a servant
when he reigneth' (Prov 30:21, 22). It is out of thy place, either to talk or do, as one that
reigneth.

2. Consider, that thou being a servant, what is under thy hand is not thy own but thy master's.
Now, because it is not thy own thou oughtest not to dispose of it; but because it is thy master's,
thou oughtest to be faithful. Thus it was with Joseph (Gen 39:8, 9). But if thou do otherwise,
know that thou shalt receive of God for the wrong that thou dost; and there is with God 'no
respect of persons' (Col 3:25). Wherefore,

3. Touching thy work and employment, thou art to do it as unto the Lord, and not for man; and,
indeed, then servants do their business as becomes them, when they do all in obedience to the
Lord, as knowing that the place in which they now are, it is the place where Christ hath put
them, and in which he expecteth they should be faithful.

Observe a little the word of God to servants. 1. Servants must be obedient; yet, 2. Not with
that obedience that will serve man only. Servants must have their eye on the Lord, in the work
they do for their masters. 3. That their work in this service is the will and ordinance of
God. From which I conclude, that thy work in thy place and station, as thou art a servant,
is as really God's ordinance, and as acceptable to him, in its kind, as is preaching, or any
other work, for God; and that thou art as sure to receive a reward for thy labour, as he that
hangs or is burnt for the gospel.

Wherefore, saith the apostle to servants, 'Whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord,
and not unto men, knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance;
for ye serve the Lord Christ' (Col 3:23, 24). And now touching the three sorts of masters mentioned
before. Servants, if they have not a care of their hearts, will be so much in the consideration
of the relation that is betwixt their masters and they, as brethren, that they will forget
the relation that is between them as masters and servants. Now, though they ought to remember
the one, yet let them take heed of forgetting the other. Know thy place, as a servant, while
thou considerest that thy master and thee are brethren, and do thy work for him faithfully,
humbly, and with meekness, because he is a master faithful and beloved, and partaker of the
heavenly benefit.

