Down in the valley, perhaps one kilometer toward the city from us, several peasant homes are
on fire and the woods on the opposite side of the valley are aflame.  A few of us go over to
help control the flames. While we are attempting to put things in order, a storm comes up and
it begins to rain.  Over the city, clouds of smoke are rising and I hear a few slight explosions.
I come to the conclusion that an incendiary bomb with an especially strong explosive action
has gone off down in the valley.  A few of us saw three planes at great altitude over the city
at the time of the explosion.  I, myself, saw no aircraft whatsoever.

Perhaps a half-hour after the explosion, a procession of people begins to stream up the valley
from the city.  The crowd thickens continuously.  A few come up the road to our house.  We
give them first aid and bring them into the chapel, which we have in the meantime cleaned and
cleared of wreckage, and put them to rest on the straw mats which constitute the floor of Japanese
houses.  A few display horrible wounds of the extremities and back.  The small quantity of
fat which we possessed during this time of war was soon used up in the care of the burns. 
Father Rektor who, before taking holy orders, had studied medicine, ministers to the injured,
but our bandages and drugs are soon gone.  We must be content with cleansing the wounds.

More and more of the injured come to us.  The least injured drag the more seriously wounded.
There are wounded soldiers, and mothers carrying burned children in their arms.  From the houses
of the farmers in the valley comes word: "Our houses are full of wounded and dying. Can you
help, at least by taking the worst cases?"  The wounded come from the sections at the edge
of the city.  They saw the bright light, their houses collapsed and buried the inmates in their
rooms.  Those that were in the open suffered instantaneous burns, particularly on the lightly
clothed or unclothed parts of the body.  Numerous fires sprang up which soon consumed the entire
district.  We now conclude that the epicenter of the explosion was at the edge of the city
near the Jokogawa Station, three kilometers away from us.  We are concerned about Father Kopp
who that same morning, went to hold Mass at the Sisters of the Poor, who have a home for children
at the edge of the city.  He had not returned as yet.

Toward noon, our large chapel and library are filled with the seriously injured.  The procession
of refugees from the city continues.  Finally, about one o'clock, Father Kopp returns, together
with the Sisters. Their house and the entire district where they live has burned to the ground.
Father Kopp is bleeding about the head and neck, and he has a large burn on the right palm.
He was standing in front of the nunnery ready to go home.  All of a sudden, he became aware
of the light, felt the wave of heat and a large blister formed on his hand.  The windows were
torn out by the blast.  He thought that the bomb had fallen in his immediate vicinity.  The
nunnery, also a wooden structure made by our Brother Gropper, still remained but soon it is
noted that the house is as good as lost because the fire, which had begun at many points in
the neighborhood, sweeps closer and closer, and water is not available. There is still time
to rescue certain things from the house and to bury them in an open spot.  Then the house is
swept by flame, and they fight their way back to us along the shore of the river and through
the burning streets.

