At this place the British, during the battle of Nicholson's Nek, had hidden a large quantity
of rifle and gun ammunition in a hole in the ground, covering it up with grass, which gave
it the appearance of a heap of rubbish. One of the burghers who feared this would be injurious
to the health of our men in camp, set the grass on fire, and this soon penetrated to the ammunition.
A tremendous explosion occurred, and it seemed as if there were a real battle in progress.
From all sides burghers dashed up on horseback to learn where the fighting was taking place.
General Joubert sent an adjutant to enquire whether the Johannesburgers were now killing each
other for a change, and why I could not keep my men under better control. I asked this gentleman
to be kind enough to see for himself what was taking place, and to tell the Commandant-General
that I could manage well enough to keep my men in order, but could not be aware of the exact
spot where the enemy had chosen to hide their ammunition.

Meanwhile, it became daily more evident to me how greatly Joubert depreciated my commando,
and that we would have to behave very well and fight very bravely to regain his favour. Other
commandos also seemed to have no better opinion, and spoke of us as the laager which had to
run at Elandslaagte, forgetting how even General Meyer's huge commando had been obliged to
retreat in the greatest confusion at Dundee. If all the details of this Dundee engagement were
published it would be discovered that it was a Boer disaster only second to that of Elandslaagte.

We were now, however, at any rate at the front. I sent out my outposts and fixed my positions,
which were very far from good; but I decided to make no complaints. We had resolved to do our
very best to vindicate our honour, and to prove that our accusers had no reason to call us
either cowards or good-for-nothings.

CHAPTER VII.

THE BOER GENERAL'S SUPERSTITIONS.

A few days after we had arrived before Ladysmith we joined an expedition to reconnoitre the
British entrenchments, and my commando was ordered near some forts on the north-westerly side
of the town. Both small and large artillery were being fired from each side. We approached
within 800 paces of a fort; it was broad daylight and the enemy could therefore see us distinctly,
knew the exact range, and received us with a perfect hailstorm of fire. Our only chance was
to seek cover behind kopjes and in ditches, for on any Boer showing his head the bullets whistled
round his ears. Here two of my burghers were severely wounded, and we had some considerable
trouble to get them through the firing line to our ambulance. At last, late in the afternoon,
came the order to retire, and we retired after having achieved nothing.

I fail to this day to see the use of this reconnoitring, but at Ladysmith everything was equally
mysterious and perplexing. It was perhaps that my knowledge of military matters was too limited
to understand the subtle manoeuvres of those days. But I have made up my mind not to criticise
our leader's military strategy, though I must say at this juncture that the whole siege of
Ladysmith and the manner in which the besieged garrison was ineffectually pounded at with our
big guns for several months, seem to me an unfathomable mystery, which, owing to Joubert's
untimely death, will never be explained satisfactorily. But I venture to describe Joubert's
policy outside Ladysmith as stupid and primitive, and in another chapter I shall again refer to it.

After another fortnight or so, we were ordered away to guard another position to the south-west
of Ladysmith, as the Free State commando under Commandant Nel, and, unless I am mistaken, under
Field-Cornet Christian de Wet (afterwards the world-famous chief Commander of the Orange Free
State, and of whom all Afrikanders are justly proud), had to go to Cape Colony.

Here I was under the command of Dijl Erasmus, who was then General and a favourite of General
Joubert. We had plenty of work given us. Trenches had to be dug and forts had to be constructed
and remodelled. At this time an expedition ventured to Estcourt, under General Louis Botha,
who replaced General L. Meyer, sent home on sick leave. My commando joined the expedition under
Field-Cornet J. Kock, who afterwards caused me a lot of trouble.

I can say but little of this expedition to Estcourt, save that the Commander-in-Chief accompanied
it. But for his being with us, I am convinced that General Botha would have pushed on at least
as far as Pietermaritzburg, for the English were at that time quite unable to stop our progress.
But after we got to Estcourt, practically unopposed, Joubert, though our burghers had been
victorious in battle after battle, ordered us to retreat. The only explanation General Joubert
ever vouchsafed about the recall of this expedition was that in a heavy thunderstorm which
had been raging for two nights near Estcourt, two Boers had been struck by lightning, which,
according to his doctrine, was an infallible sign from the Almighty that the commandos were
to proceed no further. It seems incredible that in these enlightened days we should find such
a man in command of an army; it is, nevertheless, a fact that the loss of two burghers induced
our Commandant-General to recall victorious commandos who were carrying all before them. The
English at Pietermaritzburg, and even at Durban, were trembling lest we should push forward
to the coast, knowing full well that in no wise could they have arrested our progress. And
what an improvement in our position this would have meant! As it was, our retirement encouraged
the British to push forward their fighting line so far as Chieveley Station, near the Tugela
river, and the commandos had to take up a position in the "randjes," on the westerly banks
of the Tugela.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE "GREAT POWERS" TO INTERVENE.

During the retreat of our army to the frontier of the Transvaal Republic nothing of importance
occurred. Here again confusion reigned supreme, and none of the commandos were over-anxious
to form rearguards. Our Hollander Railway Company made a point of placing a respectful distance
between her rolling-stock and the enemy, and, anxious to lose as few carriages as possible,
raised innumerable difficulties when asked to transport our men, provisions and ammunition.
Our generals had meantime proceeded to Laing's Nek by rail to seek new positions, and there
was no one to maintain order and discipline.

About 150 Natal Afrikanders who had joined our commandos when these under the late General
Joubert occupied the districts about Newcastle and Ladysmith, now found themselves in an awkward
position. They elected to come with us, accompanied by their families and live stock, and they
offered a most heartrending spectacle. Long rows of carts and wagons wended their way wearily
along the road to Laing's Nek. Women in tears, with their children and infants in arms, cast
reproachful glances at us as being the cause of their misery. Others occupied themselves more
usefully in driving their cattle. Altogether it was a scene the like of which I hope never
to see again.

The Natal kaffirs now had an opportunity of displaying their hatred towards the Boers. As soon
as we had left a farm and its male inhabitants had gone, they swooped down on the place and
wrought havoc and ruin, plundering and looting to their utmost carrying capacity. Some even
assaulted women and children, and the most awful atrocities were committed. I attach more blame
to the whites who encouraged these plundering bands, especially some of the Imperial troops
and Natal men in military service. Not understanding the bestial nature of the kaffirs, they
used them to help carry out their work of destruction, and although they gave them no actual
orders to molest the people, they took no proper steps of preventing this.

When our commando passed through Newcastle, we found the place almost entirely deserted, excepting
for a few British subjects who had taken an oath of neutrality to the Boers.

I regret to have to state that during our retreat a number of irresponsible persons set fire
to the Government buildings in that town. It is said that an Italian officer burned a public
hall on no reasonable pretext; certainly he never received orders to that effect. As may be
expected of an invading army, some of our burgher patrols and other isolated bodies of troops
looted and destroyed a number of houses which had been temporarily deserted. But with the exception
of these few cases, I can state that no outrages were committed by us in Natal, and no property
was needlessly destroyed.

On our arrival at Laing's Nek a Council of War was immediately held to decide our future plans.

We now found ourselves once more on the old battlefields of 1880 and 1881, where Boer and Briton
had met 20 years before to decide by trial of arms who should be master of the S. A. Republic.
Traces of that desperate struggle were still plainly visible, and the historic height of Majuba
stood there, an isolated sentinel, recalling to us the battle in which the unfortunate Colley
lost both the day and his life.

I was told off to take up a position in the Nek where the wagon-road runs to the east across
the railway-tunnel, and here we made preparations for digging trenches and placing our guns.
Soon after we had completed our entrenchments we once more saw the enemy. They were lying at
Schuinshoogte on the Ingogo, and had sent a mounted corps with two guns to the Nek. Although
we had no idea of the enemy's strength, we were fully prepared to meet the attack; the Pretoria,
Lydenburg and other laagers were posted to the left on the summit of Majuba Hill, and other
commandos held good positions on the east. But the enemy evidently thought that we had fled
all the way back to Pretoria, and not expecting to find the Nek occupied, advanced quite unconcerned.
We fired a few volleys at them, which caused them to halt in considerable surprise, and, replying
with a little artillery fire, they quickly returned to Schuinshoogte. We had, however, to be
on our guard both day and night. It was bitterly cold at the time and a strong easterly wind
was blowing.

Next day something occurred which afforded a change to the monotony of our situation, namely,
the arrival from Pretoria of Mr. John Lombaard, member of the First Volksraad for Bethel. He
asked permission to address us and informed us that we need only hold out another fortnight,
for news from Europe had reached them to the effect that the Great Powers had decided to put
an end to the War. This communication emanating from such a semi-official source was believed
by a certain number of our men, but I think it did very little to brighten up the spirits of
the majority, or arouse them from the lethargy into which they seemed to have fallen. A fortnight
passed, and a month, without us hearing anything further of this expected intervention, and
I have never been able to discover on whose authority and by whose orders Mr. Lombaard made
to us that remarkable communication.

