Several communes in Ticino, notably Airolo, have much public wealth. Airolo has seventeen mountain
pastures, each of which feeds forty to eighty head of cattle. Each member of the corporation
has the right to send up to these pastures five head for the summer. Those sending more, pay
for the privilege; those sending less, receive a rental. On a specified day at the beginning
of the season and on another at the close, the milk of each cow is weighed; from these amounts
her average yield is estimated, and her total produce computed. The cheese and butter from
the herds are sold, most of it in Milan, the hire of the herders paid, and the net revenue
divided among the members according to the yield of their cows.

In Glarus, the produce of the greater part of the communal lands, instead of being directly
divided among the inhabitants, is substituted for taxation. The commonable alps are let by
auction for a term of years, and, in opposition to ancient principles, strangers may bid for
them. Some of the Glarus communes sell the right to cut timber in the forest under the superintendence
of the guardians. The mountain hotels, in not a few instances the property of the communes,
are let year by year. Land is frequently rented from the communes by manufacturing establishments.
A citizen not using his share of the communal land may lease it to the commune, which in turn
will let it to a tenant. The communes of Glarus are watchful that enough arable land is preserved
for distribution among the members. If a plot is sold to manufacturers, or for private building
purposes, a piece of equal or greater extent is bought elsewhere. Glarus has relatively as
many people engaged in industries aside from farming as any other spot in Europe. It has 34,000
inhabitants, of whom nearly 15,000 live directly by manufactures, while of the rest many indirectly
receive something from the same source. Distributive coöperative societies on the English plan
exist in most of the industrial communes. The members of the communal corporations in Glarus,
though not rich, are as free and independent as any other wage-workers in the world: they inherit
the common lands; their local taxes are little or nothing; they are assured work, if not in
the manufactories then on the land.

Of the poverty that fears pauperism in old age, that dreads enforced idleness in recurrent
industrial crises, that undermines health, that sinks human beings in ignorance, that deprives
men of their manhood, the Swiss who enjoy the common lands of the Landsgemeinde cantons know
little or nothing. They have enough. They have nothing to waste, nothing to spare; their fare
is simple. But they are free. It is to the like freedom and equality of their ancestors that
historians have pointed. It would be well nigh meaningless to refer to any freedom and equality
among other ancient Swiss. The right of asylum from religious oppression is the sole feature
of liberty at all general of old. The present is the first generation in which all the Swiss
have been free. The chief elements of their political freedom--the Initiative and Referendum--came
from the Landsgemeinde cantons. From the same source, in good time, so also may come to all
Switzerland the prime element of economic freedom--free access to land.

       *       *       *       *       *

Poverty is a relative condition. Men may be poor of mind--ignorant; and of body--ill-fed, ill-clothed,
ill-sheltered; and of rights--dependent. And from the state of hopeless deprivation involving
all these forms upward are minute gradations. Where stand the Swiss in the scale?

This the reply: Their system of education gives free opportunity to all to partake of the mental
heritage of the ages. Their method of distribution, through the inheritance laws, of private
and common lands, has made roughly two-thirds of the heads of families agricultural land holders.
There being in other regards government control of all monopolies, the consequence is a widespread
distribution of the annual product. Hence, no pauperism to be compared with that of England;
no plutocracy such as we have in America. Certain other facts broadly outline the general comfort
and independence. As one effect of the subdivision of the land, the soil, so far as nature
permits, is highly cultivated, its appearance fertile, finished, beautiful, and in striking
contrast with the dominating vast, bare mountain rocks and snowbeds. The many towns and cities
bear abundant signs of a general prosperity, their roads, bridges, stores, residences, and
public buildings betokening in the inhabitants industry and energy, and freedom to employ these
qualities. Emigration is at low percentage, and of those citizens who do leave for the New
World not a few are educated persons with some means seeking short cuts to fortune. Much of
the rough work of Switzerland is done by Savoyards, as houseworkers, and by Italians, as farm
hands, laborers, and stone masons: showing that as a body even the poorest of the propertyless
Swiss have some choice of the better paid occupations. Every spring sees Italians, by scores
of thousands, pouring over the Alps for a summer's work in Switzerland. Indeed, Swiss wage-workers
might command better terms were it not for competing Italians, French, and Germans. In other
words, through just social arrangements, enough has been done in Switzerland to raise the economic
level of the entire nation; but the overflow of laborers from other lands depresses the condition
of home labor. Nevertheless, where, it may be asked, is the people higher in the scale of civilization,
in all the word implies, than the Swiss?

       *       *       *       *       *

To recount what the Swiss have done by direct legislation:

They have made it easy at any time to alter their cantonal and federal constitutions,--that
is, to change, even radically, the organization of society, the social contract, and thus to
permit a peaceful revolution at the will of the majority. They have as well cleared from the
way of majority rule every obstacle,--privilege of ruler, fetter of ancient law, power of legislator.
They have simplified the structure of government, held their officials as servants, rendered
bureaucracy impossible, converted their representatives to simple committeemen, and shown the
parliamentary system not essential to lawmaking. They have written their laws in language so
plain that a layman may be judge in the highest court. They have forestalled monopolies, improved
and reduced taxation, avoided incurring heavy public debts, and made a better distribution
of their land than any other European country. They have practically given home rule in local
affairs to every community. They have calmed disturbing political elements;--the press is purified,
the politician disarmed, the civil service well regulated. Hurtful partisanship is passing
away. Since the people as a whole will never willingly surrender their sovereignty, reactionary
movement is possible only in case the nation should go backward. But the way is open forward.
Social ideals may be realized in act and institution. Even now the liberty-loving Swiss citizen
can discern in the future a freedom in which every individual,--independent, possessed of rights
in nature's resources and in command of the fruits of his toil,--may, at his will, on the sole
condition that he respect the like aim of other men, pursue his happiness.

DIRECT LEGISLATION IN THE UNITED STATES.

"But these are foreign methods. How are they to be engrafted on our American system?" More
than once have I been asked this question when describing the Initiative and Referendum of
Switzerland.

The reply is: Direct legislation is not foreign to this country. Since the settlement of New
England its practice has been customary in the town meeting, an institution now gradually spreading
throughout the western states--of recent years with increased rapidity. The Referendum has
appeared, likewise, with respect to state laws, in several forms in every part of the Union.
In the field of labor organization, also, especially in several of the more carefully managed
national unions, direct legislation is freely practiced. The institution does not need to be
engrafted on this republic; it is here; it has but to develop naturally.

The Town Meeting.

The town meeting of New England is the counter-part of the Swiss communal political meeting.
Both assemblies are the primary form of the politico-social organization. Both are the foundation
of the structure of the State. The essential objects of both are the same: to enact local regulations,
to elect local officers, to fix local taxation, and to make appropriations for local purposes.
At both, any citizen may propose measures, and these the majority may accept or reject--i.e.,
the working principles of town and commune alike are the Initiative and the Referendum.

A fair idea of the proceedings at all town meetings may be gained through description of one.
For several reasons, a detailed account here of what actually happened recently at a town meeting
is, it seems to me, justified. At such a gathering is seen, in plain operation, in the primary
political assembly, the principles of direct legislation. The departure from those principles
in a representative gathering is then the more clearly seen. In many parts of the country,
too, the methods of the town meeting are little known. By observing the transactions in particular,
the reader will learn the variety in the play of democratic principle and draw from it instructive
inference.

The town of Rockland, Plymouth county, in the east of Massachusetts, has 5,200 inhabitants;
assesses for taxation 5,787 acres of land; contains 1,078 dwelling houses, 800 of which are
occupied by owners, and numbers 1,591 poll tax payers, who are therefore voters.

At 9 a.m., on Monday, March 2, 1891, 819 voters of Rockland assembled in the opera house for
the annual town meeting, the "warrant" for which, in accordance with the law, had been publicly
posted seven days before and published once in each of the two town newspapers. A presiding
officer for the day, called a moderator, was elected by show of hands, after which an election
by ballot for town officers for the ensuing year was begun. The supervisors of the voting were
the town clerk and the three selectmen (the executive officers of the town), who were seated
on a platform at one end of the hall. To cast his ballot, a voter mounted the platform, his
name was called aloud by the clerk, his ballot was deposited, a check bell striking as it was
thrown in the ballot-box, and the voter stepped on and down. The ballot was a printed one,
its size, color, and type regulated by state law. When the voters had cast their ballots, five
tellers, who had been chosen by show of hands, counted the vote. In this balloting for town
officers, there was no division into Republicans and Democrats, although considerable grouping
together through party association could be traced. The officers elected were a town clerk
and treasurer; a board of three, to serve as selectmen, assessors, overseers of the poor, and
fence viewers; three school committeemen; a water commissioner; a board of health of three
members; two library trustees; three auditors, and seven constables.

A vote was also taken by ballot--"Yes" or "No"--on the question: "Shall licenses be granted
for the sale of intoxicating liquors in this town?" The yeas were 317; nays, 347. The form
of ballot used in this case was precisely that invariably employed in the Referendum in Switzerland.

After a recess of an hour at midday, the business laid out in the "warrant" was resumed. There
were present 700 to 800 voters, with, as on-lookers on the same floor, a large number of women,
the principal and pupils of the high school, and the teachers and children of the grammar schools.

The "warrant" (the schedule for the meeting) consisted of forty-four "articles," each representing
a matter to be debated and voted on--that is to say, a subject for legislation. These articles
had been placed in the warrant by the selectmen, either on their own motion or on request of
citizens. The election of moderator had taken place under article 1; that of town officers
under article 2; the license vote under article 3. The voting on the rest of the articles now
took place by show of hands. Article 4 related to the annual reports of the town officers,
printed copies of which were to be had by each citizen. These were read and discussed. Article
5 related to the general appropriations for town expenses for the ensuing year. The following
were decided on, each item being voted on separately:

  For highway repairs       $3,800  For military aid             $500
  For removing snow            300  For guideboards                50
  For fire department        1,200  For abatement of taxes and
  For police service           500      collector's fee           500
  For night watch              600  For support of poor         5,500
  For town officers          2,200  For library, etc            1,000
  For town committees, and          For schools, proper        11,300
      Abingdon records          50  For school-incidentals      1,000
  For miscellaneous expenses 1,200  For school books            1,000
  For interest               1,000  For hydrants                2,300
  For memorial day             100  For water bonds, etc        2,500

Article 6, which was agreed to, authorized the town treasurer to borrow money in anticipation
of the collection of taxes; article 7 related to the method of collecting the town taxes. It
was decided these should be farmed out to the lowest bidder, and, on the spot, a citizen secured
the contract at sixty-eight cents on the hundred. Article 8 related to the powers of the tax
collector; 9, to a list of jurors reported by the selectmen, which was accepted; 10, to methods
of repairing highways and sidewalks; 11, to appropriating money for memorial day. Articles
10 and 11 were passed over, having been covered in the general appropriations, and the selectmen
were instructed to enforce in highway work the nine-hour law. Article 12, which was adopted,
provided for a night watch; 13, relating to copying the records of Abingdon, had been passed
upon in the general appropriations; 14, providing for widening and straightening a street,
was passed, and $350 appropriated for the purpose; 15, providing for concrete sidewalks, excited
much debate, and $300 was appropriated in addition to material on hand. Articles 16, appropriating
$350 for draining a street, and 17, requesting the selectmen to lay out a water course on another
street, were adopted. Article 18, which was carried by a large majority, appropriated, in five
items, discussed and voted on separately, $7,250 for the fire department. Article 19 appropriated
$100 for a town road, 20 $200 for another, and these were adopted, but 21, by which $325 was
asked for another road, was laid on the table. Articles 22 and 23, appropriating $75 and $25
for bridges, were passed. Article 24, proposing the graveling of a sidewalk, was referred to
the selectmen. Articles 25, 26, 27, and 28, proposing the laying of sidewalks, were adopted,
with appropriations of $150, $125, $150, and $150; but 29, also proposing a new sidewalk, was
laid on the table. Article 30, proposing a new sidewalk, was adopted, with an appropriation
of $300, but 31, proposing another, was laid on the table. Articles 32, proposing to change
the grading of two streets, with an appropriation of $500; 33, appropriating $300 for a highway
roller; 34, providing for a public drinking fountain, and appropriating $200; 35, providing
for a new bridge, and appropriating $75, were all adopted. Articles 36, 37, and 38, providing
for extensions to the water mains, were laid on the table. Article 39, appropriating $300 for
relocation of a telephone line, was adopted; but articles 40, providing for a memorial building,
41, providing for a town hall, and 42, providing for a soldiers' memorial, were laid on the
table. Lastly, articles 43 and 44, providing for changes in street names, were accepted as
reported by the selectmen.

After finishing the "warrant," the meeting appropriated $10 to pay the moderator, fixed $3
a day as the rate for the selectmen, and directed the latter not to employ as constable any
man who had been rejected by a vote of the town. It was 10.45 p.m. when the assemblage broke
up, a recess having been taken from 5.30 to 7.30.

The proceedings at this meeting were characterized by democratic methods. When the town officers
handed in their reports, they were questioned and criticised by one citizen and another. A
motion to refer the general appropriation list to a committee of twenty-five met with overwhelming
defeat in the face of the expressed sentiment that about all left of primitive democracy was
the old-fashioned town meeting. One of the speakers on the town library appropriation was a
lady, and her point was carried. On the question of buying new fire extinguishing apparatus,
there were sides and leaders, with prolonged debate. As to roads and bridges, each matter was
dealt with on its own merits and separately from other similar propositions. In the election
for officers, women voted for school committeemen.

The only officials of Rockland under annual salary are the treasurer and town physician. Selectmen
receive a sum per diem; constables, fees; school committeemen make out their own bills. The
others serve for nothing.

Rockland, politically, is a typical New England town. What is to be said of its manner of town
meeting may, with little modification, be said of all. Each citizen present at such a meeting
may join in the debate. From the printed copy of the officers' reports he may learn what his
town government has done in the year past; from the printed warrant he may see what is proposed
to be done in the year coming. He who knows the better way in any of the business is sure to
receive a hearing. The pockets of all being concerned, whatever is best and cheapest is insured.
Bribery, successful only in the dark, has little or no field in the town meeting.

Provision usually exists by which a town may dispose of any urgent matters springing up for
legislation in the course of the year: as a rule a special town meeting may be called on petition
of a small number of citizens, commonly seven to eleven.

