 She began
to wind round very slowly; and, when exactly at right angles to Macdonough, was raked completely,
fore and aft. At the same time an ominous list to port, where her side was torn in over a hundred
places, showed that she would sink quickly if her guns could not be run across to starboard.
But more than half her mixed scratch crew had been already killed or wounded. The most desperate
efforts of her few surviving officers could not prevent the confusion that followed the fearful
raking she now received from both her superior opponents; and before her fresh broadside could
be brought to bear she was forced to strike her flag. Then every American carronade and gun
was turned upon Pring's undaunted little Linnet, which kept up the hopeless fight for fifteen
minutes longer; so that Prevost might yet have a chance to carry out his own operations without
fear of molestation from a hostile bay.

But Prevost was in no danger of molestation. He was in perfect safety. He watched the destruction
of his fleet from his secure headquarters, well inland, marched and countermarched his men
about, to make a show of action; and then, as the Linnet fired her last, despairing gun, he
told all ranks to go to dinner.

That night he broke camp hurriedly, left all his badly wounded men behind him, and went back
a great deal faster than he came. His shamed, disgusted veterans deserted in unprecedented
numbers. And Macomb's astounded army found themselves the victors of an unfought field.

The American victory at Plattsburg gave the United States the absolute control of Lake Champlain;
and this, reinforcing their similar control of Lake Erie, counterbalanced the British military
advantages all along the Canadian frontier. The British command of the sea, the destruction
of Washington, and the occupation of Maine told heavily on the other side. These three British
advantages had been won while the mother country was fighting with her right hand tied behind
her back; and in all the elements of warlike strength the British Empire was vastly superior
to the United States. Thus there cannot be the slightest doubt that if the British had been
free to continue the war they must have triumphed. But they were not free. Europe was seething
with the profound unrest that made her statesmen feel the volcano heaving under their every
step during the portentous year between Napoleon's abdication and return. The mighty British
Navy, the veteran British Army, could not now be sent across the sea in overwhelming force.
So American diplomacy eagerly seized this chance of profiting by British needs, and took such
good advantage of them that the Treaty of Ghent, which ended the war on Christmas Eve, left
the two opponents in much the same position towards each other as before. Neither of the main
reasons for which the Americans had fought their three campaigns was even mentioned in the
articles.

The war had been an unmitigated curse to the motherland herself; and it brought the usual curses
in its train all over the scene of action. But some positive good came out of it as well, both
in Canada and in the United States.

The benefits conferred on the United States could not be given in apter words than those used
by Gallatin, who, as the finance minister during four presidential terms, saw quite enough
of the seamy side to sober his opinions, and who, as a prominent member of the war party, shared
the disappointed hopes of his colleagues about the conquest of Canada. His opinion is, of course,
that of a partisan. But it contains much truth, for all that:

   The war has been productive of evil and of good; but
   I think the good preponderates. The people are now more American. They feel
   and act more as a nation. And I hope that the permanency
   of the Union is thereby better secured.

Gallatin did not, of course, foresee that it would take a third conflict to finish what the
Revolution had begun. But this sequel only strengthens his argument. For that Union which was
born in the throes of the Revolution had to pass through its tumultuous youth in '1812' before
reaching full manhood by means of the Civil War.

The benefits conferred on Canada were equally permanent and even greater. How Gallatin would
have rejoiced to see in the United States any approach to such a financial triumph as that
which was won by the Army Bills in Canada! No public measure was ever more successful at the
time or more full of promise for the future. But mightier problems than even those of national
finance were brought nearer to their desirable solution by this propitious war. It made Ontario
what Quebec had long since been--historic ground; thus bringing the older and newer provinces
together with one exalting touch. It was also the last, as well as the most convincing, defeat
of the three American invasions of Canada. The first had been led by Sir William Phips in 1690.
This was long before the Revolution. The American Colonies were then still British and Canada
still French. But the invasion itself was distinctively American, in men, ships, money, and
design. It was undertaken without the consent or knowledge of the home authorities; and its
success would probably have destroyed all chance of there being any British Canada to-day.
The second American invasion had been that of Montgomery and Arnold in 1775, during the Revolution,
when the very diverse elements of a new Canadian life first began to defend their common heritage
against a common foe. The third invasion--the War of 1812--united all these elements once more,
just when Canada stood most in need of mutual confidence between them. So there could not have
been a better bond of union than the blood then shed so willingly by her different races in
a single righteous cause.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

Enough books to fill a small library have been written about the 'sprawling and sporadic' War
of 1812. Most of them deal with particular phases, localities, or events; and most of them
are distinctly partisan. This is unfortunate, but not surprising. The war was waged over an
immense area, by various forces, and with remarkably various results. The Americans were victorious
on the Lakes and in all but one of the naval duels fought at sea. Yet their coast was completely
sealed up by the Great Blockade in the last campaign. The balance of victory inclined towards
the British side on land. Yet the annihilating American victories on the Lakes nullified most
of the general military advantages gained by the British along the Canadian frontier. The fortunes
of each campaign were followed with great interest on both sides of the line. But on the other
side of the Atlantic the British home public had Napoleon to think of at their very doors;
and so, for the most part, they regarded the war with the States as an untoward and regrettable
annoyance, which diverted too much force and attention from the life-and-death affairs of Europe.

All these peculiar influences are reflected in the different patriotic annals. Americans are
voluble about the Lakes and the naval duels out at sea. But the completely effective British
blockade of their coast-line is a too depressingly scientific factor in the problem to be welcomed
by a general public which would not understand how Yankee ships could win so many duels while
the British Navy won the war. Canadians are equally voluble about the battles on Canadian soil,
where Americans had decidedly the worst of it. As a rule, Canadian writers have been quite
as controversial as Americans, and not any readier to study their special subjects as parts
of a greater whole. The British Isles have never had an interested public anxious to read about
this remote, distasteful, and subsidiary war; and books about it there have consequently been
very few.

The two chief authors who have appealed directly to the readers of the mother country are William
James and Sir Charles Lucas. James was an industrious naval historian; but he was quite as
anti-American as the earlier American writers were anti-British. Their appendices, however,
give a great many documents which are of much assistance in studying the real history of the
war. James wrote only a few years after the peace. Nearly a century later Sir Charles Lucas
wrote The Canadian War of 1812, which is the work of a man whose life-long service in the Colonial
Office and intimate acquaintance with Canadian history have both been turned to the best account.
The two chief Canadian authors are Colonel Cruikshank and James Hannay. Colonel Cruikshank
deserves the greatest credit for being a real pioneer with his Documentary History of the Campaigns
upon the Niagara Frontier. Hannay's History of the War of 1812 shows careful study of the Canadian
aspects of the operations; but its generally sound arguments are weakened by its controversial
tone.

The four chief American authors to reckon with are, Lossing, Upton, Roosevelt, and Mahan. They
complement rather than correspond with the four British authors. The best known American work
dealing with the military campaigns is Lossing's Field-Book of the War of 1812. It is an industrious
compilation; but quite uncritical and most misleading. General Upton's Military Policy of the
United States incidentally pricks all the absurd American militia bubbles with an incontrovertible
array of hard and pointed facts. The Naval War of 1812, by Theodore Roosevelt, is an excellent
sketch which shows a genuine wish to be fair to both sides. But the best naval work, and the
most thorough work of any kind on either side, is Admiral Mahan's Sea Power in its Relations
to the War of 1812.

A good deal of original evidence on the American side is given in Brannan's Official Letters
of the Military and Naval Officers of the United States during the War with Great Britain in
the Years 1812 to 1815. The original British evidence about the campaigns in Canada is given
in William Wood's Select British Documents of the Canadian War of 1812. Students who wish to
see the actual documents must go to Washington, London, and Ottawa. The Dominion Archives are
of exceptional interest to all concerned.

The present work is based entirely on original evidence, both American and British.

END