But when we read the Vaishnava poems, these thoughts do not occur. We only see on the canvas
of our mind the picture of a beautiful woman, passing under the shelter of the flowering kadambas
in the darkness of a stormy Shravan[1] night, towards the bank of the Jumna, forgetful of wind
or rain, as in a dream, drawn by her surpassing love. She has tied up her anklets lest they
should tinkle; she is clad in dark blue raiment lest she be discovered; but she holds no umbrella
lest she get wet, carries no lantern lest she fall!

[Footnote 1: July-August, the rainy season.]

Alas for useful things--how necessary in practical life, how neglected in poetry! But poetry
strives in vain to free us from their bondage--they will be with us always; so much so, we
are told, that with the march of civilisation it is poetry that will become extinct, but patent
after patent will continue to be taken out for the improvement of shoes and umbrellas.

BOLPUR,

16th Jaistha (May) 1892.

No church tower clock chimes here, and there being no other human habitation near by, complete
silence falls with the evening, as soon as the birds have ceased their song. There is not much
difference between early night and midnight. A sleepless night in Calcutta flows like a huge,
slow river of darkness; one can count the varied sounds of its passing, lying on one's back
in bed. But here the night is like a vast, still lake, placidly reposing, with no sign of movement.
And as I tossed from side to side last night I felt enveloped within a dense stagnation.

This morning I left my bed a little later than usual and, coming downstairs to my room, leant
back on a bolster, one leg resting over the other knee. There, with a slate on my chest, I
began to write a poem to the accompaniment of the morning breeze and the singing birds. I was
getting along splendidly--a smile playing over my lips, my eyes half closed, my head swaying
to the rhythm, the thing I hummed gradually taking shape--when the post arrived.

There was a letter, the last number of the Sadhana Magazine, one of the Monist, and some proof-sheets.
I read the letter, raced my eyes over the uncut pages of the Sadhana, and then again fell to
nodding and humming through my poem. I did not do another thing till I had finished it.

I wonder why the writing of pages of prose does not give one anything like the joy of completing
a single poem. One's emotions take on such perfection of form in a poem; they can, as it were,
be taken up by the fingers. But prose is like a sackful of loose material, heavy and unwieldy,
incapable of being lifted as you please.

If I could finish writing one poem a day, my life would pass in a kind of joy; but though I
have been busy tending poetry for many a year it has not been tamed yet, and is not the kind
of winged steed to allow me to bridle it whenever I like! The joy of art is in freedom to take
a distant flight as fancy will; then, even after return within the prison-world, an echo lingers
in the ear, an exaltation in the mind.

Short poems keep coming to me unsought, and so prevent my getting on with the play. Had it
not been for these, I could have let in ideas for two or three plays which have been knocking
at the door. I am afraid I must wait for the cold weather. All my plays except "Chitra" were
written in the winter. In that season lyrical fervour is apt to grow cold, and one gets the
leisure to write drama.

BOLPUR,

31st May 1892.

It is not yet five o'clock, but the light has dawned, there is a delightful breeze, and all
the birds in the garden are awake and have started singing. The koel seems beside itself. It
is difficult to understand why it should keep on cooing so untiringly. Certainly not to entertain
us, nor to distract the pining lover[1]--it must have some personal purpose of its own. But,
sadly enough, that purpose never seems to get fulfilled. Yet it is not down-hearted, and its
Coo-oo! Coo-oo! keeps going, with now and then an ultra-fervent trill. What can it mean?

[Footnote 1: A favourite conceit of the old Sanskrit poets.]

And then in the distance there is some other bird with only a faint chuck-chuck that has no
energy or enthusiasm, as if all hope were lost; none the less, from within some shady nook
it cannot resist uttering this little plaint: chuck, chuck, chuck.

How little we really know of the household affairs of these innocent winged creatures, with
their soft, breasts and necks and their many-coloured feathers! Why on earth do they find it
necessary to sing so persistently?

SHELIDAH,

31st Jaistha (June)1892.

I hate these polite formalities. Nowadays I keep repeating the line: "Much rather would I be
an Arab Bedouin!" A fine, healthy, strong, and free barbarity.

I feel I want to quit this constant ageing of mind and body, with incessant argument and nicety
concerning ancient decaying things, and to feel the joy of a free and vigorous life; to have,--be
they good or bad,--broad, unhesitating, unfettered ideas and aspirations, free from everlasting
friction between custom and sense, sense and desire, desire and action.

If only I could set utterly and boundlessly free this hampered life of mine, I would storm
the four quarters and raise wave upon wave of tumult all round; I would career away madly,
like a wild horse, for very joy of my own speed! But I am a Bengali, not a Bedouin! I go on
sitting in my corner, and mope and worry and argue. I turn my mind now this way up, now the
other--as a fish is fried--and the boiling oil blisters first this side, then that.

Let it pass. Since I cannot be thoroughly wild, it is but proper that I should make an endeavour
to be thoroughly civil. Why foment a quarrel between the two?

SHELIDAH,

16th June 1892.

The more one lives alone on the river or in the open country, the clearer it becomes that nothing
is more beautiful or great than to perform the ordinary duties of one's daily life simply and
naturally. From the grasses in the field to the stars in the sky, each one is doing just that;
and there is such profound peace and surpassing beauty in nature because none of these tries
forcibly to transgress its limitations.

Yet what each one does is by no means of little moment. The grass has to put forth all its
energy to draw sustenance from the uttermost tips of its rootlets simply to grow where it is
as grass; it does not vainly strive to become a banyan tree; and so the earth gains a lovely
carpet of green. And, indeed, what little of beauty and peace is to be found in the societies
of men is owing to the daily performance of small duties, not to big doings and fine talk.

Perhaps because the whole of our life is not vividly present at each moment, some imaginary
hope may lure, some glowing picture of a future, untrammelled with everyday burdens, may tempt
us; but these are illusory.

SHELIDAH,

2nd Asarh (June) 1892.

Yesterday, the first day of Asarh,[1] the enthronement of the rainy season was celebrated with
due pomp and circumstance. It was very hot the whole day, but in the afternoon dense clouds
rolled up in stupendous masses.

[Footnote 1: June-July, the commencement of the rainy season.]

I thought to myself, this first day of the rains, I would rather risk getting wet than remain
confined in my dungeon of a cabin.

The year 1293 [1] will not come again in my life, and, for the matter of that, how many more
even of these first days of Asarh will come? My life would be sufficiently long could it number
thirty of these first days of Asarh to which the poet of the Meghaduta[2] has, for me at least,
given special distinction.

[Footnote 1: Of the Bengal era.]

[Footnote 2: In the Meghaduta (Cloud Messenger) of Kalidas a famous description of the burst
of the Monsoon begins with the words: On the first day of Asarh.]

It sometimes strikes me how immensely fortunate I am that each day should take its place in
my life, either reddened with the rising and setting sun, or refreshingly cool with deep, dark
clouds, or blooming like a white flower in the moonlight. What untold wealth!

A thousand years ago Kalidas welcomed that first day of Asarh; and once in every year of my
life that same day of Asarh dawns in all its glory--that self-same day of the poet of old Ujjain,
which has brought to countless men and women their joys of union, their pangs of separation.

Every year one such great, time-hallowed day drops out of my life; and the time will come when
this day of Kalidas, this day of the Meghaduta, this eternal first day of the Rains in Hindustan,
shall come no more for me. When I realise this I feel I want to take a good look at nature,
to offer a conscious welcome to each day's sunrise, to say farewell to each day's setting sun,
as to an intimate friend.

What a grand festival, what a vast theatre of festivity! And we cannot even fully respond to
it, so far away do we live from the world! The light of the stars travels millions of miles
to reach the earth, but it cannot reach our hearts--so many millions of miles further off are we!

The world into which I have tumbled is peopled with strange beings. They are always busy erecting
walls and rules round themselves, and how careful they are with their curtains lest they should
see! It is a wonder to me they have not made drab covers for flowering plants and put up a
canopy to ward off the moon. If the next life is determined by the desires of this, then I
should be reborn from our enshrouded planet into some free and open realm of joy.

Only those who cannot steep themselves in beauty to the full, despise it as an object of the
senses. But those who have tasted of its inexpressibility know how far it is beyond the highest
powers of mere eye or ear--nay, even the heart is powerless to attain the end of its yearning.

P.S.--I have left out the very thing I started to tell of. Don't be afraid, it won't take four
more sheets. It is this, that on the evening of the first day of Asarh it came on to rain very
heavily, in great lance-like showers. That is all.

ON THE WAY TO GOALUNDA,

21st June 1892.

Pictures in an endless variety, of sand-banks, fields and their crops, and villages, glide
into view on either hand--of clouds floating in the sky, of colours blossoming when day meets
night. Boats steal by, fishermen catch fish; the waters make liquid, caressing sounds throughout
the livelong day; their broad expanse calms down in the evening stillness, like a child lulled
to sleep, over whom all the stars in the boundless sky keep watch--then, as I sit up on wakeful
nights, with sleeping banks on either side, the silence is broken only by an occasional cry
of a jackal in the woods near some village, or by fragments undermined by the keen current
of the Padma, that tumble from the high cliff-like bank into the water.

Not that the prospect is always of particular interest--a yellowish sandbank, innocent of grass
or tree, stretches away; an empty boat is tied to its edge; the bluish water, of the same shade
as the hazy sky, flows past; yet I cannot tell how it moves me. I suspect that the old desires
and longings of my servant-ridden childhood--when in the solitary imprisonment of my room I
pored over the Arabian Nights, and shared with Sinbad the Sailor his adventures in many a strange
land--are not yet dead within me, but are roused at the sight of any empty boat tied to a sand-bank.

If I had not heard fairy tales and read the Arabian Nights and Robinson Crusoe in childhood,
I am sure views of distant banks, or the farther side of wide fields, would not have stirred
me so--the whole world, in fact, would have had for me a different appeal.

What a maze of fancy and fact becomes tangled up within the mind of man! The different strands--petty
and great--of story and event and picture, how they get knotted together!

SHELIDAH,

22nd June 1892.

Early this morning, while still lying in bed, I heard the women at the bathing-place sending
forth joyous peals of Ulu! Ulu![1] The sound moved me curiously, though it is difficult to say why.

[Footnote 1: A peculiar shrill cheer given by women on auspicious or festive occasions.]

Perhaps such joyful outbursts put one in mind of the great stream of festive activity which
goes on in this world, with most of which the individual man has no connection. The world is
so immense, the concourse of men so vast, yet with how few has one any tie! Distant sounds
of life, wafted near, bearing tidings from unknown homes, make the individual realise that
the greater part of the world of men does not, cannot own or know him; then he feels deserted,
loosely attached to the world, and a vague sadness creeps over him.

Thus these cries of Ulu! Ulu! made my life, past and future, seem like a long, long road, from
the very ends of which they come to me. And this feeling colours for me the beginning of my day.

As soon as the manager with his staff, and the ryots seeking audience, come upon the scene,
this faint vista of past and future will be promptly elbowed out, and a very robust present
will salute and stand before me.

SHAZADPUR,

25th June 1892.

In to-day's letters there was a touch about A---'s singing which made my heart yearn with a
nameless longing. Each of the little joys of life, which remain unappreciated amid the hubbub
of the town, send in their claims to the heart when far from home. I love music, and there
is no dearth of voices and instruments in Calcutta, yet I turn a deaf ear to them. But, though
I may fail to realise it at the time, this needs must leave the heart athirst.

As I read to-day's letters, I felt such a poignant desire to hear A---'s sweet song, I was
at once sure that one of the many suppressed longings of creation which cry after fulfilment
is for neglected joys within reach; while we are busy pursuing chimerical impossibilities we
famish our lives....

The emptiness left by easy joys, untasted, is ever growing in my life. And the day may come
when I shall feel that, could I but have the past back, I would strive no more after the unattainable,
but drain to the full these little, unsought, everyday joys which life offers.

SHAZADPUR,

27th June 1892.

Yesterday, in the afternoon, it clouded over so threateningly, I felt a sense of dread. I do
not remember ever to have seen before such angry-looking clouds.

Swollen masses of the deepest indigo blue were piled, one on top of the other, just above the
horizon, looking like the puffed-out moustaches of some raging demon.

Under the jagged lower edges of the clouds there shone forth a blood-red glare, as through
the eyes of a monstrous, sky-filling bison, with tossing mane and with head lowered to strike
the earth in fury.

The crops in the fields and the leaves of the trees trembled with fear of the impending disaster;
shudder after shudder ran across the waters; the crows flew wildly about, distractedly cawing.

SHAZADPUR,

29th June 1892.

I wrote yesterday that I had an engagement with Kalidas, the poet, for this evening. As I lit
a candle, drew my chair up to the table, and made ready, not Kalidas, but the postmaster, walked
in. A live postmaster cannot but claim precedence over a dead poet, so I could not very well
tell him to make way for Kalidas, who was due by appointment,--he would not have understood
me! Therefore I offered him a chair and gave old Kalidas the go-by.

There is a kind of bond between this postmaster and me. When the post office was in a part
of this estate building, I used to meet him every day. I wrote my story of "The Postmaster"
one afternoon in this very room. And when the story was out in the Hitabadi he came to me with
a succession of bashful smiles, as he deprecatingly touched on the subject. Anyhow, I like
the man. He has a fund of anecdote which I enjoy listening to. He has also a sense of humour.

Though it was late when the postmaster left, I started at once on the Raghuvansa[1], and read
all about the swayamuara[2] of Indumati.

[Footnote 1: Book of poems by Kalidas, who is perhaps best known to European readers as the
author of Sakuntala.]

[Footnote 2: An old Indian custom, according to which a princess chooses among assembled rival
suitors for her hand by placing a garland round the neck of the one whose love she returns.]

The handsome, gaily adorned princes are seated on rows of thrones in the assembly hall. Suddenly
a blast of conch-shell and trumpet resounds, as Indumati, in bridal robes, supported by Sunanda,
is ushered in and stands in the walk left between them. It was delightful to dwell on the picture.

Then as Sunanda introduces to her each one of the suitors, Indumati bows low in loveless salutation,
and passes on. How beautiful is this humble courtesy! They are all princes. They are all her
seniors. For she is a mere girl. Had she not atoned for the inevitable rudeness of her rejection
by the grace of her humility, the scene would have lost its beauty.

SHELIDAH,

20th August 1892.

"If only I could live there!" is often thought when looking at a beautiful landscape painting.
That is the kind of longing which is satisfied here, where one feels alive in a brilliantly
coloured picture, with none of the hardness of reality. When I was a child, illustrations of
woodland and sea, in Paul and Virginia, or Robinson Crusoe, would waft me away from the everyday
world; and the sunshine here brings back to my mind the feeling with which I used to gaze on
those pictures.

I cannot account for this exactly, or explain definitely what kind of longing it is which is
roused within me. It seems like the throb of some current flowing through the artery connecting
me with the larger world. I feel as if dim, distant memories come to me of the time when I
was one with the rest of the earth; when on me grew the green grass, and on me fell the autumn
light; when a warm scent of youth would rise from every pore of my vast, soft, green body at
the touch of the rays of the mellow sun, and a fresh life, a sweet joy, would be half-consciously
secreted and inarticulately poured forth from all the immensity of my being, as it lay dumbly
stretched, with its varied countries and seas and mountains, under the bright blue sky.

My feelings seem to be those of our ancient earth in the daily ecstasy of its sun-kissed life;
my own consciousness seems to stream through each blade of grass, each sucking root, to rise
with the sap through the trees, to break out with joyous thrills in the waving fields of corn,
in the rustling palm leaves.

I feel impelled to give expression to my blood-tie with the earth, my kinsman's love for her;
but I am afraid I shall not be understood.

BOALIA,

18th November 1892.

I am wondering where your train has got to by now. This is the time for the sun to rise over
the ups and downs of the treeless, rocky region near Nawadih station. The scene around there
must be brightened by the fresh sunlight, through which distant, blue hills are beginning to
be faintly visible.

Cultivated fields are scarcely to be seen, except where the primitive tribesmen have done a
little ploughing with their buffaloes; on each side of the railway cutting there are the heaped-up
black rocks--the boulder-marked footprints of dried-up streams--and the fidgety, black wagtails,
perched along the telegraph wires. A wild, seamed, and scarred nature lies there in the sun,
as though tamed at the touch of some soft, bright, cherubic hand.

Do you know the picture which this calls up for me? In the Sakuntala of Kalidas there is a
scene where Bharat, the infant son of King Dushyanta, is playing with a lion cub. The child
is lovingly passing his delicate, rosy fingers through the rough mane of the great beast, which
lies quietly stretched in trustful repose, now and then casting affectionate glances out of
the corner of its eyes at its little human friend.

And shall I tell you what those dry, boulder-strewn watercourses put me in mind of? We read
in the English fairy tale of the Babes in the Wood, how the little brother and sister left
a trace of their wanderings, through the unknown forest into which their stepmother had turned
them out, by dropping pebbles as they went. These streamlets are like lost babes in the great
world into which they are sent adrift, and that is why they leave stones, as they go forth,
to mark their course, so as not to lose their way when they may be returning. But for them
there is no return journey!

NATORE,

2nd December 1892.

There is a depth of feeling and breadth of peace in a Bengal sunset behind the trees which
fringe the endless solitary fields, spreading away to the horizon.

Lovingly, yet sadly withal, does our evening sky bend over and meet the earth in the distance.
It casts a mournful light on the earth it leaves behind--a light which gives us a taste of
the divine grief of the Eternal Separation[1] and eloquent is the silence which then broods
over earth, sky, and waters.

[Footnote 1: I.e. between Purusha and Prakriti--God and Creation.]

As I gaze on in rapt motionlessness, I fall to wondering--If ever this silence should fail
to contain itself, if the expression for which this hour has been seeking from the beginning
of time should break forth, would a profoundly solemn, poignantly moving music rise from earth
to starland?

With a little steadfast concentration of effort we can, for ourselves, translate the grand
harmony of light and colour which permeates the universe into music. We have only to close
our eyes and receive with the ear of the mind the vibration of this ever-flowing panorama.

But how often shall I write of these sunsets and sunrises? I feel their renewed freshness every
time; yet how am I to attain such renewed freshness in my attempts at expression?

SHELIDAH,

9th December 1892.

I am feeling weak and relaxed after my painful illness, and in this state the ministrations
of nature are sweet indeed. I feel as if, like the rest, I too am lazily glittering out my
delight at the rays of the sun, and my letter-writing progresses but absent-mindedly.

The world is ever new to me; like an old friend loved through this and former lives, the acquaintance
between us is both long and deep.

I can well realise how, in ages past, when the earth in her first youth came forth from her
sea-bath and saluted the sun in prayer, I must have been one of the trees sprung from her new-formed
soil, spreading my foliage in all the freshness of a primal impulse.

The great sea was rocking and swaying and smothering, like a foolishly fond mother, its first-born
land with repeated caresses; while I was drinking in the sunlight with the whole of my being,
quivering under the blue sky with the unreasoning rapture of the new-born, holding fast and
sucking away at my mother earth with all my roots. In blind joy my leaves burst forth and my
flowers bloomed; and when the dark clouds gathered, their grateful shade would comfort me with
a tender touch.

From age to age, thereafter, have I been diversely reborn on this earth. So whenever we now
sit face to face, alone together, various ancient memories, gradually, one after another, come
back to me.

