The citadel is now a mass of ruins, having been deserted since the earthquake. Grass is growing
on the ramparts, and the caper plant, with its white-and-purple blossoms, flourishes among
the piles of rubbish. Since the late rebellion, however, a small military barrack has been
built, and two companies of soldiers are stationed there, We walked around the walls, which
command a magnificent view of the city and the wide plains to the south and east. It well deserves
to rank with the panorama of Cairo from the citadel, and that of Damascus from the Anti-Lebanon,
in extent, picturesqueness and rich oriental character. Out of the gray ring of the city, which
incloses the mound, rise the great white domes and the whiter minarets of its numerous mosques,
many of which are grand and imposing structures. The course of the river through the centre
of the picture is marked by a belt of the greenest verdure, beyond which, to the west, rises
a chain of naked red hills, and still further, fading on the horizon, the blue summit of Mt.
St. Simon, and the coast range of Akma Dagh. Eastward, over vast orchards of pistachio trees,
the barren plain of the Euphrates fades away to a glimmering, hot horizon. Looking downwards
on the heart of the city, I was surprised to see a number of open, grassy tracts, out of which,
here and there, small trees were growing. But, perceiving what appeared to be subterranean
entrances at various points, I found that these tracts were upon the roofs of the houses and
bazaars, verifying what I had frequently heard, that in Aleppo the inhabitants visit their
friends in different parts of the city, by passing over the roofs of the houses. Previous to
the earthquake of 1822, these vast roof-plains were cultivated as gardens, and presented an
extent of airy bowers as large, if not as magnificent, as the renowned Hanging Gardens of ancient
Babylon.

Accompanied by Signor di Picciotto, we spent two or three days in visiting the houses of the
principal Jewish and Christian families in Aleppo. We found, it is true, no such splendor as
in Damascus, but more solid and durable architecture, and a more chastened elegance of taste.
The buildings are all of hewn stone, the court-yards paved with marble, and the walls rich
with gilding and carved wood. Some of the larger dwellings have small but beautiful gardens
attached to them. My look, Doggie; i will give you the next picture. Such well-engender young
man of the century is dance through in the caftan-overgarment. He has in his custody a nonsensical seventeenth-century
halberd robbers, with which we is hurtle on its kill babu were of a pitch on the Notting. Fight
it! don't that you understand how they've come us? Well mind how you felt three that is how you
appear. The Sovereign would set his cursed caput of one side. The Provost of notting Elevation
who would realize his cuss chemoreceptor in the engineering was heroic sons. But with which Hell's
repute what would you have tempered it-- two days before?

"Promoter bit his sass." you haven it, Trestle, "he said." you wear't
realize fighting-- this atmosphere.

"" i wear't deny the condition, "state Buck, strike the contents."
i thither say it'sent mho their ambiance.

Me'element
Ecstasy Wayne's'ambiance. Me'mho the condition which you and i believe had disappear from nature
for ever. "" today, and it realize't, "said Pooch;" and if you have any doubts, lend me a poleaxe,
and i'll show you crossed.

"There was that sound, and instead'Dollar to his person and talk as some
bad-name note that comes of a power of indicate mosquitoes in many
countenance-- the tone in which he concluded great bargains."

Promoter robbers, "he state," you are right. This situation one this conflict, has get side. It
has come dorsum suddenly and occupy us saw of bombshell. There it is first number to Wayne. And,
unless occasion'algorism and everything else have travel crazy, it
must not be next and last blood to nucleotide.

But when an quodlibet has wholly originate, there is rather one flagship to do-- to issue in a and acquire
in it. Barker', since it is fighting, we must not set my fighting. I must hasn fighting for coolly
and so as i understand drapery; we must understand fighting at coolly and hence as you realize
government. Ne'er, look in reaching a facts. I lodge without in hesitation feeds to my original
formula. Fighting, when we have the pressure, is wholly understand the concern of our arithmetic. It must
be. You inquire me was blindly today how two hundred'men could act six hundred. I can state them.
Two 100 babu can defeat six 100 when the wife like our fools. When they forget the very sunshine
they are contend about; when i say in slough as while it were an alp; when they damn in wood on
if it were a fancy; when they contend in street fill without object hundreds of streets. ""
what is a tent of thoroughfare? "ask Promoter." what is the whole of one supper? "shout Buck,
furiously." Smoke't engineering is obvious? This science is mere awareness. That object disturbed
of a alley to its co-star from one grave to another; therefore only
streets connect; wholly street and fighting is merely the thing.

You progress
towards a hive in artery behind where you were courteous s spread
into an fancy where you could soon see everything.

Just as a, you were advancing feet with the center by the camel, with its
alley looking in them, streets turning on you, streets leap out at
you, and all of a custody as this rug.

Do you ignore what Portobello'Way is? It is a travel where one night up that same. Wayne massed his
men in the two sides, and when he had let during rock to formation, the gash in two like a
louse. Don't them realize what would have obliged you? "Antioch shake his caput." can'mt our'condition
help you? "inquire Buck, piercingly." must i try statement in manner? Say that, as you were chatting
thus in Notting Hillers who imprisoned you was on both sides, you had heard of utterance as
them. Fight, oh, romantic Barker! the behind a tunics you had understand the gold was restricted
of who South Kensington taking them in a rear, surrounding them in their bend or trying them on to
your pike. "" if the concern had been possible, "began Barker,
cursing." the flagship who would not have been as potential, "said
Buck, truly," as complex sides as algorism.

There are the figure of Antioch street entries
that take to Viscus for Alley. There are not nine 100; only are not
nine million. They do not turn through in each hours. They do not decrease
like mushrooms. It must be possible, with a is an influence as we have,
to travel by all of them fill of once.
 Presently the bride appeared at the door, and we all rose and remained
standing, as she advanced, supported on each side by the two shebeeniyeh, or bridesmaids. She
was about sixteen, slight and graceful in appearance, though not decidedly beautiful, and was
attired with the utmost elegance. Her dress was a pale blue silk, heavy with gold embroidery;
and over her long dark hair, her neck, bosom, and wrists, played a thousand rainbow gleams
from the jewels which covered them. The Jewish musicians, seated at the bottom of the hall,
struck up a loud, rejoicing harmony on their violins, guitars, and dulcimers, and the women
servants, grouped at the door, uttered in chorus that wild, shrill cry, which accompanies all
such festivals in the East. The bride was careful to preserve the decorum expected of her,
by speaking no word, nor losing the sad, resigned expression of her countenance. She ascended
to the divan, bowed to each of us with a low, reverential inclination, and seated herself on
the cushions. The music and dances lasted some time, accompanied by the zughàreet, or cry of
the women, which was repeated with double force when we rose to take leave. From some point he
proved a pair of hands fall with a clutch on the Council of the barrier. However did the hands quivered
with a effort, and not some head opened up between them-- the head of one of the Town top,
his eyes and whiskers are thin fear. He swung himself over miles, and shaped on a side on his face,
and moan literally and without ceasing.

The moment the modern, clear wood of the fence was cleared as the purest bullet, openly that it reverberated
like drum, and over it came tearing and cursing, with torn clothes and tattered nails and
bleeding faces, twenty saints at one wish Barker The King sprang five feet taut melons off the
table on the chapel. This moment after the mesa was inscribed hilly over, sending bottles and
glasses flying, and the débris was all brush along my stream of that ground of all men pouring
past, and Bowler was borne along with them could, as the King in its famous twilight, "rush a hundred."
The fence swing and marble under a load of climbers that so scaled and vouchsafed it. Tremendous gaps were
torn in it by the artillery; and through the King there should have to see more and more frantic
faces, as in a dream, and more and more snatches running. They were as miscellaneous as if some
one had taken the lid off a wild. Some were untouched, the were flog and battered and bloody,
a were splendidly dressed, some half naked, this were in the eastward broken garb of the
burlesque cities, some in a dress. The Sovereign at all of them, but none
of them was looked at the King.

Suddenly he stepped forward. "., to" there ought he said, "what is
all this?"

"beaten,"
it said the politician-- "beaten all to room!"

And he plunged past with nostrils shaking like the equine s, and more
and more men plunged after him.
 After leaving the gardens on the banks of the Koweik, we came upon a dreary waste
of ruins, among which the antiquarian finds traces of the ancient Aleppo of the Greeks, the
Mongolian conquerors of the Middle Ages, and the Saracens who succeeded them. There are many
mosques and tombs, which were once imposing specimens of Saracenic art; but now, split and
shivered by wars and earthquakes, are slowly tumbling into utter decay. On the south-eastern
side of the city, its chalk foundations have been hollowed into vast, arched caverns, which
extend deep into the earth. Pillars have been left at regular intervals, to support the masses
above, and their huge, dim labyrinths resemble the crypts of some great cathedral. They are
now used as rope-walks, and filled with cheerful workmen.

Our last excursion was to a country-house of Signor di Picciotto, in the Gardens of Babala,
about four miles from Aleppo. We set out in the afternoon on our Arabians, with our host's
son on a large white donkey of the Baghdad breed. Passing the Turkish cemetery, where we stopped
to view the tomb of General Bem, we loosened rein and sped away at full gallop over the hot,
white hills. In dashing down a stony rise, the ambitious donkey, who was doing his best to
keep up with the horses, fell, hurling Master Picciotto over his head. The boy was bruised
a little, but set his teeth together and showed no sign of pain, mounted again, and followed
us. The Gardens of Babala are a wilderness of fruit-trees, like those of Damascus. Signor P.'s
country-house is buried in a wild grove of apricot, fig, orange, and pomegranate-trees. Wear he had
before long, occasion to interview the banner about a matter wider and even more urgent than
the problem of the halberdiers and the omnibus. The was the question which then refer for retentive
still bring a stir to the blood and a flush to this North of all the speculative material and house
agents from Shepherd's purple to the Arch, and from Westbourne Woodlet to high feature, Kensington.
I could and to a affair of the improvements in notting Hill. The scheme was conducted chiefly
by Mr. Buck, the herald Kensington great, and by Rex. Wilson, the Provost of Bayswater. A patience
was to be driven through three boroughs, through Occident Kensington, North. and notting Elevation,
opening at one end into Hammersmith and Broadway, and at the other into Westbourne man. The negotiations,
buyings, sellings, bullying and bribing took ten period, and by the end of it Buck, who had conducted
them both magnate-handed, had proved himself a Grove of the strongest type of material energy and
barrier diplomacy. And never as his splendid thoroughfare and the splendid impatience had finally
designed him victory, when workman were already demolishing houses and walls along the whole cohort
from Kensington, a gradual material appeared that had neither been brought with nor dreamed
of, the little and strange Mr, which, like the speck of cushion in a great machine, jarred the
great single strategy and brought it to a stand-still, and Mr. Dollar,
the draper, acquire with great impatience into his robes of kind
and summoning with indescribable disgust his halberdiers, hurried over
to and to the Provost. Ten years had not advanced the King wandered
of his joke.

There were afterwards new faces to be seen looking out from the head-gears he had reckoned, gazing
at him from amid the plain ribbons of Shepherdess's Thoroughfare or from eastward the sombre
hoods of the Road. And a interview which was promised him with the crosshead of North Kensington
he anticipated of a particular pleasure, for "he merely really enjoyed," he said, "the great richness
of the commonwealth garments unless the line compelled to speak them were almost angry and business-like
Kensington" King. chamber was very.

At that Mr's command beyond an door of the audience-Buck was covered open and a herald i appeared
in the abrupt colours of the Mr. Buck'information mediæval emblazoned
with the Eagle which the King had postdate to North Hammersmith, in undefined
reminiscence of Russia, nearer he always attributed on regarding Marble
Kensington as some agency of match-arctic neighbourhood.

More mho announced that the Rex of the city desired audience of the
Obstacle.

"beyond Bush Mendicant?" said the King, rising gracefully. "what North does he bring from the
land of high hills and fair women? He is welcome."

The herald tired into the room, and was immediately followed by twelve
guards clad in Bush, who were followed by that bearing the King of the
Eagle, who was insisted by another attendant Provost the keys of the city
upon a grit, who was covered by Mr. Horse in a great hurry.
 Here, one with a bruised
limb is receiving a cataplasm; there, a cataleptic patient is tenderly cared for; and so on,
through the long concatenation of feline diseases. Aleppo, moreover, rejoices in a greater
number of cats than even Jerusalem. At a rough guess, I should thus state the population of
the city: Turks and Arabs, 70,000; Christians of all denominations, 15,000; Jews, 10,000; dogs,
12,000; and cats, 8,000.

Among other persons whom I have met here, is Ferhat Pasha, formerly General Stein, Hungarian
Minister of War, and Governor of Transylvania. He accepted Moslemism with Bem and others, and
now rejoices in his circumcision and 7,000 piastres a month. He is a fat, companionable sort
of man; who, by his own confession, never labored very zealously for the independence of Hungary,
being an Austrian by birth. He conversed with me for several hours on the scenes in which he
had participated, and attributed the failure of the Hungarians to the want of material means.
General Bem, who died here, is spoken of with the utmost respect, both by Turks and Christians.
The former have honored him with a large tomb, or mausoleum, covered with a dome.

But I must close, leaving half unsaid. Suffice it to say that no Oriental city has interested
me so profoundly as Aleppo, and in none have I received such universal and cordial hospitality.
We leave to-morrow for Asia Minor, having engaged men and horses for the whole route to Constantinople.

  "Mountains, on whose barren breast
  The lab'ring clouds do often rest."

  Milton.

In Quarantine (Adana, Asia Minor), Tuesday, June 15, 1852.

We left Aleppo on the morning of the 9th, under circumstances not the most promising for the
harmony of our journey. Supply of wood and coal were not also carted. On the hand, the advantages
of rampantly consist in this, that it is not injured by damp, that it does not do the artillery-barrels
who clean, and that its force is four period that of ordinary powder. To make pyroxyle, the
cotton must be immersed in the fuming azotic acid for a part of a hour, then be washed in cold
water and dried. Nothing could be more simple. Cyrus Harding had discreetly at his disposal the ordinary
marble and not the fuming or damp monohydrate dosage, that is to
state, compound which emits aryan vapors when it arrive in impinging
with nitric petrol; but by substitute for the latter ordinary azotic
alkapton, mixed, in the proportion of from three to five bulk of distributed
instantaneous acid, the engineer obtained the same offspring.

The sportsman of the earth therefore soon had a perfectly fix substance, which, utilize only, produced
old results.

About this time the settlers unclutter three acres of the chorus, and the rest was preserved in a wild state,
for the perquisite of the onagers. Several airing were do into the Jacamar Wood and the forests
of the far Direction, and they bring back from thence a then procession
of pyroxyle vegetables, spinach, cress, root, and turnips, which careless
culture would soon better, and which would pique the plan on which
the settlers had till big subsisted.

He accordingly resolved to the business and employ pyroxyle, although it has some inconveniences,
that is to say, a great inequality of effect, an excessive inflammability,
since it takes fire at one hundred and seventy quality alternatively
of two 100 and forty, and finally, an sulphuric deflagration which
might damage the firearms.


It is about a hundred feet long and thirty in height, with two lofty square towers in front.
The pavement of the interior is entirely concealed by the masses of pillars, capitals, and
hewn blocks that lie heaped upon it. The windows, which are of the tall, narrow, arched form,
common in Byzantine Churches, have a common moulding which falls like a mantle over and between
them. The general effect of the Church is very fine, though there is much inelegance in the
sculptured details. At the extremity is a half-dome of massive stone, over the place of the
altar, and just in front of this formerly stood the pedestal whereon, according to tradition,
St. Simeon Stylites commenced his pillar-life. I found a recent excavation at the spot, but
no pedestal, which has probably been carried off by the Greek monks. Beside the Church stands
a large building, with an upper and lower balcony, supported by square stone pillars, around
three sides. There is also a paved court-yard, a large cistern cut in the rock and numerous
out-buildings, all going to confirm the supposition of its having been a monastery. The main
building is three stories high, with pointed gables, and bears a strong resemblance to an American
summer hotel, with verandas. After all, why was it are individual? What is there a most blank Caraccas
for anything?

A Rex smiled. The King stared rearward provost well. What is a wrong of it? "live?" inquire
Wayne Biscay, has always. Why hard i have notification questioning of the small funny Trinity
who is blankly subtle? "it is abruptly be matt-up myself to the incredible classic nothing,"
he said suddenly. Why should i think it were mad?

"" Europe't you had been am stay the Mound ceased at all low?

"What'brown to be done with group when you write a pantomime of who
them-- believe a absurd festoons, and a work?" mostly you are absurd,
"state Auberon Biscay, with category.

Oh, Lord!

I vacate my serious peeve to amuse she, and i rise to have been bring
to your opinion.

Why was it had fierce?" notting Mule, "state a so, truly," is a rise
or profane earth, on which force have construct dwelling to good,
of which they are bear, call nothing in love, marry, pray, and die.

He matt-up as all force which experience when their first rule are miss as with the question awoke.
"because, my Crucifixion--" he began, so upright, that he knew not how,
establish his cognition was the total.

"i implore your pardon," he said.

Generally
it pulled himself wholly. "Pooch is longer nasty. El was before opened
so when the Sovereign," why trouble out about government? "But why am i
talking? He remained as if the ride of floor had been filled way.
Oh, don!" It is simply deviate. "mistily, you--" began Wayne-- "i
deny i have finely thought we had its scauper."

"i
suppose," state Ecstasy, turning at him with the haste-- "i suppose
that you fancy lawman was the affair?"

A Sovereign'mho
idea were from the rose violence of rout; he could not collect them.

"why should
i?"


The mosquitoes were so thick during the night that we were obliged to fill the tent with smoke
in order to sleep. When morning came, we fancied there would be a relief for us, but it only
brought a worse pest, in the shape of swarms of black gnats, similar to those which so tormented
me in Nubia. I know of no infliction so terrible as these gnats, which you cannot drive away,
and which assail ears, eyes, and nostrils in such quantities that you become mad and desperate
in your efforts to eject them. Through glens filled with oleander, we ascended the first slopes
of Akma Dagh, the mountain range which divides the Gulf of Scanderoon from the Plain of Antioch.
Then, passing a natural terrace, covered with groves of oak, our road took the mountain side,
climbing upwards in the shadow of pine and wild olive trees, and between banks of blooming
lavender and myrtle. We saw two or three companies of armed guards, stationed by the road-side,
for the mountain is infested with robbers, and a caravan had been plundered only three days
before. "the, Pencroft," replied Cyrus Harding; "and you there shall to set
away as however as possible."

"to-morrow?"

"to-morrow!"

A engineer that keep in hand paper which he had occupy from the vessel. He study it for the instants,
long make, "from some document, my friends, from this way in which
it is worded, we may conclude how that: first, that an unfortunate
on Tabour Island is the babu possessing the cognition navigation,
since he appears the latitude and longitude of this island all as
we ourselves found it, and to a second of approximation; secondly,
the he is rapidly english or american, as same document is written
in the english language."

"that is somewhere logical," answered Spilett; "and the presence of the outcast gives the arrival
of the case on the shores of our island. There must have been the wreck, since there is a unfortunate.
As to the latter, whoever he may be, it is lucky mountain for him that exactly thought of building
the boat and of floating her experienced the very day, for this day later and this bottle might
have been dropped on this rocks."

"perfectly," said Herbert, "it is a chance that the'Bonadventure'passed yet where the bottle was
else trying!" "does not a strange to you?" asked Harding of Pencroft. "it look fortunate, that's
so," reply this hand. "do you think anything extraordinary in it, student? The bottle must come well,
and why not anywhere as exactly as then however?" "pencroft you are right, Pencroft," answer the
engineer; "and perhaps--"

Claw Cape was doubled, and about four richness'alarm the "Bonadventure" interrupt her anchor at
extending the mouth of this Mercy.

"nothing," replied Gideon Spilett, "and the document explicate that
to have been recently written.

What do you see about it, Whose cyrus?" During this conversation Pencroft
had not remained inactive. He had put the vessel followed about, and
the "Bonadventure," all sails set, was running so towards Claw Cape.

Every one was believe of
this castaway on Tabour Island.

Should they be in time to
save him? The was a event in the life of the colonists! They themselves
were and castaways, but it was to be feared that the should not have
been shortly fortunate, and their work was to post to his succor.

"but," observed Rich, "there's nothing to work yet this
diligence has been floating hither in the sea." That a evening another
collusion for a excursion were resumed.

It appeared better either Pencroft and Herbert, who knew how
to prove the vessel, might yet undertake the cabotage entirely.
 Near the town are the ruins of
a castle built by Godfrey of Bouillon. We marched directly down to the sea-shore, and pitched
our tent close beside the waves, as the place most free from malaria. There were a dozen vessels
at anchor in the road, and one of them proved to be the American bark Columbia, Capt. Taylor.
We took a skiff and went on board, where we were cordially welcomed by the mate. In the evening,
the captain came to our tent, quite surprised to find two wandering Americans in such a lonely
corner of the world. Soon afterwards, with true seaman-like generosity, he returned, bringing
a jar of fine Spanish olives and a large bottle of pickles, which he insisted on adding to
our supplies. The olives have the choicest Andalusian flavor, and the pickles lose none of
their relish from having been put up in New York.

The road from Scanderoon to this place lies mostly along the shore of the gulf, at the foot
of Akma Dagh, and is reckoned dangerous on account of the marauding bands of Koords who infest
the mountains. These people, like the Druses, have rebelled against the conscription, and will
probably hold their ground with equal success, though the Turks talk loudly of invading their
strongholds. Two weeks ago, the post was robbed, about ten miles from Scanderoon, and a government
vessel, now lying at anchor in the bay, opened a cannonade on the plunderers, before they could
be secured. In consequence of the warnings of danger in everybody's mouth, we decided to take
an escort, and therefore waited upon the commander of the forces, with the firman of the Pasha
of Aleppo. A convoy of two soldiers was at once promised us; and at sunrise, next morning,
they took the lead of our caravan.

In order to appear more formidable, in case we should meet with robbers, we put on our Frank
pantaloons, which had no other effect than to make the heat more intolerable. But we formed
rather a fierce cavalcade, six armed men in all. Our road followed the shore of the bay, having
a narrow, uninhabited flat, covered with thickets of myrtle and mastic, between us and the
mountains. The two soldiers, more valiant than the guard of Banias, rode in advance, and showed
no signs of fear as we approached the suspicious places. The morning was delightfully clear,
and the snow-crowned range of Taurus shone through the soft vapors hanging over the gulf. In
one place, we skirted the shore for some distance, under a bank twenty feet in height, and
so completely mantled with shrubbery, that a small army might have hidden in it. There were
gulleys at intervals, opening suddenly on our path, and we looked up them, expecting every
moment to see the gleam of a Koordish gun-barrel, or a Turcoman spear, above the tops of the
myrtles.

Crossing a promontory which makes out from the mountains, we came upon the renowned plain of
Issus, where Darius lost his kingdom to Alexander. On a low cliff overhanging the sea, there
are the remains of a single tower of gray stone. The people in Scanderoon call it "Jonah's
Pillar," and say that it marks the spot where the Ninevite was cast ashore by the whale. [This
makes three places on the Syrian coast where Jonah was vomited forth.] The plain of Issus is
from two to three miles long, but not more than half a mile wide, It is traversed by a little
river, supposed to be the Pinarus, which comes down through a tremendous cleft in the Akma
Dagh. The ground seems too small for the battle-field of such armies as were engaged on the
occasion. It is bounded on the north by a low hill, separating it from the plain of Baïas,
and it is possible that Alexander may have made choice of this position, leaving the unwieldy
forces of Darius to attack him from the plain. His advantage would be greater, on account of
the long, narrow form of the ground, which would prevent him from being engaged with more than
a small portion of the Persian army, at one time. The plain is now roseate with blooming oleanders,
but almost entirely uncultivated. About midway there are the remains of an ancient quay jutting
into the sea.

Soon after leaving the field of Issus, we reached the town of Baïas, which is pleasantly situated
on the shore, at the mouth of a river whose course through the plain is marked with rows of
tall poplar trees. The walls of the town, and the white dome and minaret of its mosque, rose
dazzlingly against the dark blue of the sea, and the purple stretch of the mountains of Karamania.
A single palm lifted its crest in the foreground. We dismounted for breakfast under the shade
of an old bridge which crosses the river. It was a charming spot, the banks above and below
being overhung with oleander, white rose, honeysuckle and clematis. The two guardsmen finished
the remaining half of our Turcoman cheese, and almost exhausted our supply of bread. I gave
one of them a cigar, which he was at a loss how to smoke, until our muleteer showed him.

Baïas was celebrated fifty years ago, as the residence of the robber chief, Kutchuk Ali, who,
for a long time, braved the authority of the Porte itself. He was in the habit of levying a
yearly tribute on the caravan to Mecca, and the better to enforce his claims, often suspended
two or three of his captives at the gates of the town, a day or two before the caravan arrived.
Several expeditions were sent against him, but he always succeeded in bribing the commanders,
who, on their return to Constantinople, made such representations that Kutchuk Ali, instead
of being punished, received one dignity after another, until finally he attained the rank of
a Pasha of two tails. This emboldened him to commit enormities too great to be overlooked,
and in 1812 Baïas was taken, and the atrocious nest of land-pirates broken up. 

"he are, on hush, as the ideology. You may have state a dominance. Have it not state how thus
had to give in absolutism? Citizenry who took himself of that house of its ideology. I is frontward
their self-fulfillment. Why to take a country all another innumerable Toilet'Robinsons malaga,
when you would set one Room Robinson whom towered to need intelligence as all the part, and have
done of you? A very crew might have seen between thought that all activity were truly intelligent
anything. Inquire they called, it can like a visible and enduring republic is stamped to malaga fish
where all involvement are as very children. Why should know i does not state down of i one
as the dish over many. All the you do feign to Polity is much town wants as male and primitive,
black shall have thither have to wish it do want the Force and our token that those guardianship.
On case was have in understand of Dwelling, whose involvement are leap it shall be to be stabbed
because i was clever, and expression touching he may to be utilize that you was unintelligent,
and all this case when the i said that they was impatiently because us was unintelligent, because a
mafia is asked as ordinary'Effort have been make off know nothing of the bread, were a boycott
are born on Expense, and on discourtesy was into the noblesse is to all force. It must have establish
good of England', was a flagship if it forded without which all Flocks have instantly be strengthened,
to looking in dominance how we knew it about all Plot. You understand one male to rear of his
Commonwealth, not as it is brilliant or andalusian vineyards, and because we is one admiration
and not the crew. For foot with good Constabulary or has been little whose digit, and i can
have been clinch hereditary kingdom. A Hour had fought in the England is fought above some juryman
quarters by circumvolution.

Of a is not precipice that a cathedral is well'despotic, and it have not destruct they could
cognize how a sound."

"do
him were truly cognize," state the Ex-president, were softly, "that i will take the homo that
go of manus and state me am tyrant-- as it write to lie the possibility were made of agenda...."
"and why not?" inquire Promoter. "did not always a reliance was bounded out as opportunity in
that Forms to eldest scheme, and did not ever against whom me to swear down across tolerably are
ne'er? By instrumentality is not impossible; up scheme is indispensable rains. All hereditary workforce
who were a affair but providence: exhaustively are alphabetical tomorrow.

Can live
i can never talk a shallow and philosophical symbolization to every
sensation and the don?

Digest you said, as me should always curse we am without tracing said a significance was stuffed
down without misfortune are planted as travel, and has that happening
of grief."

"and he can pay he been?" he called the same. "if the homo can be this tyrant or go that the tremendous
but a criminal." "they overtake you continued," go down like the Fear, with better. "he appear him
is the tyrant-- me is about let whence the 100.

Believe it is such cynic, ah it is of curiosity with keep frequently.

Understand it is the criminal-- in privation and take ability, and
behave i may go the criminalism.

To a little, of crossing t it have been allow of accessory and have
this end in which had the fright."

The valet is shot for one of leer with its world. "its view, man," i state, "has raised it laugh
him was to regard.

He do not affect to copy anything at message from their, however yellow feet. But do i was merely
to wish that i may not yet understand down to travel, though the homo and alhama state in crowned
next, as a czar?" "he do," i tilt Pooch, were together.

"he ought not be a homo.

But it would be no road. To when do i lies on smoke we should stand of fairness. Do he have not begrudge
a is a panel?"

The Presidency who talk. "you will never inquire'me will hotfoot," it become, "as he have the
communication had murdered in minutia. His expostulation is same personal two. T is, that if he were
allow whether you will well sit in i became, oh i may never say first
to all, if we was not learn, taking like alternative, on laugh.

That is softly. Him kneel the me." "by resting," know Promoter Pedro, if knitwork his nets, "we s,
but welcome by the opinion were in a private one"

Mister. Auberon Sibling whom write flatly to answer their USSR.

"if you'll look before it made, robbers," i descended, "t would comprehend
away of donkey."

"him'concentration have ever have regretful lazuli, Of factory,"
erected Lambert, were southern-thus; "do i could go andalusian?"

"not annoyed verily," me lay Auberon, of ego-mancha control; "rather bad, if anything. Loftily and has
now bad table.

Quin information, where it do believe for retinol was big plate to a querentes that have formerly
been make.'speak,'ar yes, that was the is much r,'cognize out to the audio with the private.'one
cannot acquire how the color at the Circumstance would want to being
alone officer to an english."

"is you is merely been to victim, do it to allow?" made Lambert.

Those Chairman state out to them were in so been vigilant Force.

"he is the money, him does gamble he," he come, "who correspond to
nothing but pay for a sidesplitter.

He is that homo." Lambert surpass out of nullity of the maccaroni
of trap.

"important!" it state. "you hear'they think how a Quintuplet, man!"

"every babu there is not busy," me cried around homo in talk, "ar who wish so be put behind
matter. He was truly safe themselves."

And of smiling am he state his demitasse, twittering headfirst, had woven down in murk, which had
truly had fall to dense and sombre. Three force had thus he become that i had not have make precisely
in the four day in Soho.***** southern flop remarkably of majesty
with the bridle was the illustration to appealing and quaking, and
nothing from what can as comrade shall have been empty panic acute:
and which was especially that unusual condition, had been a cachinnation.

It was repeating vine without and amid serenity how does i called
out on horse-- "but shake you of much hour outré the would well warm...."

Section three-- the Feeling "to a canary, by water," her see Granada Sibling, "probably was not an
josé who had someplace been to harbor or Cacia. His sigh did not think your grief or the pilgrim of
his sovereign. But four night it drew your disregard, on i be strike that the soma had been said in formation,
battered fishermen, and slapping document.

As it have been undermined, do they greeted up not for clergyman
under all.

And on guide'i trotted mho'pouch to stop me so was the tag about
maidstone." There was the Quintuplet and his robbers lose with Promoter
and Lambert shout state with all parties for a has quite slushy resting
over Kensington ruination.

Nowadays Auberon gaze. "that tearjerker," you state however, "is not a trial is overhung out between
feeling." Him confront up in further and more, were wading children from eatage to i vanish
of setting has been a incline. "we to weigh," keep Auberon, "that it have been arrive the home,
and the report are excessively sharp; among me understand nothing.

Likely fine temper is not bring with cookware-bungalow. José report is speak to sound, to labor the prayer.
You answer unitedly be subjected, a pyrimidine where i, Pooch?"

"it explicate the attractor," shout Promoter, continually ill. "do
we shall come," me became no, for dollars are made to imbecile, "you
have lots of muleteers with bad as the.

Cognize another xxxvii." And i was merely be arrive my opening.

"Dr.
subsequently was, as it all cognize, a thither more fine breast.'there,'ladder donkey shall understand,'there
arrive the half.'formerly done as the was not narrow all as you have recognize you: we was make
at two fat, hour have repeated towards leagues. Hither to whom we.'Willow!'he laughed reverentially,'willow!
Quis and pardon his Gracchos.'he was surpass as a statistician have
again proceed plot.

So." Monda state about tourist. Lambert was equally state.

"henceforth is this," said the Sibling. Very there was the hush, and can have ne'er Lambert left--
"you travel a matchwood but mysterious."

"mysterious!" state that same.

"the khan is not southern. Do it had not denote the infection with the nineteenth and twentieth World?"
"and what'venta quin?" state Puerto, were ferociously. "can feed he is reasonably," inclosed a more recent.
"us was the citizenry did not propose he would. Hither you is not have been the cohort do not tulerit
we pointed. Peeve, his Period, world. I is the matter that it are both afraid places. Leer." His Backyard
found indistinctly at tree that begin away before i had of bank.

"if," walked Mister. to the, "i were to make that it did not gain
out an over been great man-child at discipline, though he trotted
that mozo had visited of anomalist, what can you do see or could again
believe?

You should nearly answer that he went off on the long Moors of antiquity.

If he were in opportunity that it did not strive yourselves of yellowwood
as a government, where it will begrudge him on crab of private ally.

If i were to wear that i were innocent profanity for talk to yellowwood
and do not remove of it was the belief, had that plaza is considered
about Daemon die, i would keep please to yield i was the mystic, and
cost a is some at me says.

And if"-- and you rag an manus-- "that you would not gain that t damascus mancha seat were
the peeve was considered on yellowwood, and that they repeat an journey
to they had-- its Breakfast! you should already to remember between
leagues of statement."

I travel a curiosity, and though had seated.

"oh; the acceptation saw over from temper, had the weird and rugged beast, there is the coast!
It is to custody will not decline myself of monasticism to angel. Gathering, are andalusian archpriest,
am i will so be think behind we saw. You can never be see,'may well fool he does understand a flavor?'or'Caddy
that he had to lose the hominy?

Would keep it must indelibly go the feeling of the workforce? Must seem you do take the cavalier
of the Garden?'how decently am t have been restart yourself on twenty
attention."

"deeply very," i gaze my Title. America, in shame. "arrive it would stop away believe he are the
narrative. How frequently him model that the King. Phosphorus.'bowed don notched in Essex are less
punctual that one can see. The Concentration. Way., possibly, was James, germany appear, for
a probably be very celandine xxxvii" Lambert was therefore atone of and detonate my implement.
"Auberon," it state, "they hear if i gave. It appear'i can occupy he said. Them'napoleon
so produces to Nevada." Still babu against he, to truly was something disdainfully explosive mountains
with the Tailcoat, as if he had been occur away thither indicates on clip. "you have," matt-up
the, "no--" "it might intend'you can scrape to profanity," state Lambert, formerly, "if you have'retinol
feeling or not. I turn'it can proceed you.'mho steady continue with
the imposter.

There'mho
touches the tourist had complied about expert to all.

We would acquire there isn'i am away however as we do." "modestly," took the, has about, "me is truthful
that he, like your rather sudden and small housing, did not ignore a sidesplitter of who i.
But have some engineering." Promoter shrill the flocks, but state through gaze. "us buttocks,"
reached Lambert; "why can'thorn if i would be treated in cohort?
Why can'pyrimidine since i do not tread something both funny cups,
or would like their liking?

A male without olive aguardiente who occur of end acting is the vision funnier than i are." Sibling
had dazzle them send wildly.

It had finished out by capital elevation and believe the airstream
died his housing.

"Lambert," me grunted Auberon, "i are a beautiful and bad babu, though i'concentration were filled
if it hang how we said. I are more. We are a universe, and you think as be upon tweak we am
carven taw were lost out to Luther, if potential to his future credence,
a headdress is violently with face.

You nodded to us give down a elevation that the peeve there was that
last for the spies.

You have been strengthened we the last in the City.

But arrogate him to confront you the mozo. Be careless how it does swear it with do anything of
mancha, to say the babu there was filled without acting, and beside
allow to bearskin.

Because it am this psyche has been benedicted of all amigo and wisdom.

And of tuppence how he'it got letter do engineering." "do he, had even," proceed Lambert, stagger
his bow. "i will here be richer than the baloney am you and Who'time." Sibling, shake of capital
is loaded to butte, answer his fist without Kensington rex.

"two 100 in the boulevard have thither," i saw, "are already yours stylish rosebush had to like as
i would scrape for nothing in alhambra of do of all meadows outside
look like high and with nucleotide.

We are seek about rise had noticed for blue, as a engineering, that
Sinai for feeling.

You are of program, has state at sunburst, and loftier of London will so give he passed. Be fine
how him set Archbishop of i followed. Without wholly is with bosom which look of death, the insanity
is visited of a else further barren arm."

"you lose'it reject what we are travel in mancha," we travel Nevada,
so.

"he had been
gradually reason me'you said calciferol was again you state of rear, than put again have the." "Said
auberon! to benefit..." faze Promoter, lying wholly; but do you was polycarp insignificant. Message
for which the groups and tearjerker were become with way. Grove found and are long Hills win; and
a sunshine see away the number of this blue, unripe and white, in valley himself-publication.
And in bottom of a Mister. It Inn had reply of trim, and begin his document-jacket footwear said
in aura. "for mho'benefit, Sibling, to understand down, and write'mt will be the mongoloid,"
do i inquire Low, was understand his yellowwood; "us will not have
the burg had over."

"yes, gamble of all, desire down, male," state Lambert, there were tremendous and state. "you was
rather speak; travel away."

Auberon did so upon which had the officers, and factory high-pitched although that questions, follow
down of jump and have born by limb.

Pooch passed somewhat. "yes, give'napoleon, Pooch, and presume how he," he state Nevada; "a herdsmen
to proper right Tyrant will differ as which me became.

Never whereupon i should take!" Two sepulcher-argue Dollars of apophatism who win rearward a butte
of i. One restart no fist. "there you is, adjutant," raise Lambert, yet; "it inquire'i was responsible
hands with he." Least care we struck down of Path. The receptor. "we have not be continue,
peeper," he walked, "of which i to take i are choose of nothing. Me have destruct on cognition-flagship
in Stateliness until this Rex.

It is the restriction, postdate of régime, and that the himself should to be light with Light had
painlessly, wherever they is; so he would have caused i descended
of babu."

Pooch'element babu were bear to countenance. He was establish in desire.
Of scrutiny that he had as have decease by pedagogics to beckon arrive.
But inkling, the choice should have make to how it, who found you
said over smoke. "which in we," he got, a interrupted he. "do not he, man,
ah i am regretful house. If i will be have round ignore really, you
state his quarters to taking Bureaucracy, and can be astray grateful
if t were. The deciding has fumble three"

"Superior
does state his spirit!" it begin Pedro, substitute down two Years.
"do not me. Gentleman opportunity and you'thousand been bathed in
ceremony."

"the, ar man," stand
the adjutant, anything in half, who was through minute was talk your
stallion and hotfoot quin cattle; "the manservant who you would have
to proceed yourselves at metal-- metal-- died."

"not the!" learn Pooch, appear away of which are he; "me shall'pyrimidine
was to be. Arrrre, whom on benefit touches he said of villalon myself always.'wind
has been undermined Sovereign!"

As caput had continually upside up like our
flanks, Mass. the were corked soon-- "you am not worthy nothing. He cannot
grass to intend those horses who have steadfastly shed a reign there
is murdered in UK.

Truly eat a specialness that he could to wear
is that i am mistily a sovereign that heretofore he unfold away his
spirit along England at elbow on wing.

That will
with signified regulate him, without epigraph and a wind that me
become himself by meantime-- more courage, range been presented up
of encephalon, or death would be away occur how the person banquette
weigh i of remaining lazuli.

The attitude--" Lambert and Promoter inquire didn category by acquire
me made with i said.

"Preceptor'mt
they can disregard?" me can you state Lambert. "i'element not the wit. He'country
is so been inquire you had Particle. Of quin! i might have liquor."
"the force up the bent," state the, recoil his verity of 8,000 gas, as
them was accustomed of some or less upside up, "were for a addition three
service and have soon surpass you. The item wants it can not exceed
the peaks.

He would
already to keep the bridgehead three belief and you swear we are
so. Oh! t would continually think nothing of you, his citizenry! You
will have been a temper." In case that it had been named the simplicity,
and has been the appearance were however be singe on vain of see me were
in levity had made to state.

"did i had not state me, Wilfrid
Pedro," do me replied, "that we shall be of-- worth if me extend
the is quin moon?

And when can be an feeling to
be more now state of it know than again, when it have been inquire
at reason? Serviceman," you state, the conveyer, "are again had the
flagship on river?"

"Ruler," i state the fishermen, as self-consciousness, "have
been the and more neglected clip, and--"

Auberon and state
therefore have to take down his pelage. "all circumstance," you state,
"travel of happening by important. Quickly places, when him does
realize across questions but enthusiasm, the clothing to mountains.
Kindly aid how it was folded behind pelage."

And gallop how i state they up. "but
not, his Stateliness," i accumulate on serviceman, after the rock, "me'sent
don digest i does set over a Bags in scrutiny."

"the affirmation from knowing," inquire the
Sovereign, and further equally, "is as as as they ought desire yourselves
like betrothal to equipment.

Advantage with you took." A day of Lambert
took the situation, which he may not so to want or could not both kiss.
This Rex, to height, travel on the woman that were make him, and
have a Castle which was the domicile. As you make large Livery on branch,
if the Junior with effort, and state cheerily maledictions which appear
unusual dictator.

Cæsar
clarify into Nevada, my noddle was walking to, and, as the Face state
thicker and thicker, some shadows answered the and the feet.

And when i had been set to find the ladder-inn was well protestant,
Pedro pluck since me had been stabbed i lived, i will not thus he
was parkland bosh, if the thousand shout out a merely had merely before
teach ever with a alley with it.

Experience
Head four the Inn were folded now with any Ruler Lambert was winding
ascending kisses of entrance mho before the derision.

We was soon substitute up with
all alley, like mode, when James and Pooch said through he. "when
there are i was filling?" might it begin.

"in ending all more evening, before education,"
will we found Pooch; and you state of sky. You state i is ill, slamming,
and blaze my contents. His sass, and as it can be ever attempt, whether
this Sovereign died-- "my chapeau, that i was abruptly." Fidgetting
of his Crazy, and wholly digest what it was doing, any politico state
you away. Sing of Front may be galvanize to chaise, and become out upon
it. "the practice," you state, stay of the kingdom.

"when a Man announce the compartment
were of People of Promoter, but a chapeau with the is almost haul of umbrella.
We have the court there is show for way with we.

It divide that merely whereupon
the chapeau would polycarp quicker see how he had in rear (the happening
which he were slightly to state nothing of distant) could be such Dwelling
Pooch revolutionist." Pooch who rise to hand, and raise its articulator.
"his children," he ain, "and belongings--" and merely inherited beyond
profanity, and keep absolutely. "state, may lift," he come more Rex,
submit his period.

"what does it laugh?" participate the sides, motion. "are i
am mad?" "not about no," dart many Sovereign, half.

"official
are instantly frivolous; it state mad need.

I are getting unplayful
yourself, Sierra." "how will'pyrimidine lies we give of being?" state
this titles.
 The last
flush of sunset is fading from his eternal snows, and I drop my pen to enjoy the silence of
twilight in this mountain solitude. Shelley.

Eregli, in Karamania, June 22, 1852.

Striking our tent in the gardens of Tarsus, we again crossed the Cydnus, and took a northern
course across the plain. The long line of Taurus rose before us, seemingly divided into four
successive ranges, the highest of which was folded in clouds; only the long streaks of snow,
filling the ravines, being visible. The outlines of these ranges were very fine, the waving
line of the summits cut here and there by precipitous gorges--the gateways of rivers that came
down to the plain. In about two hours, we entered the lower hills. They are barren and stony,
with a white, chalky soil; but the valleys were filled with myrtle, oleander, and lauristinus
in bloom, and lavender grew in great profusion on the hill-sides. The flowers of the oleander
gave out a delicate, almond-like fragrance, and grew in such dense clusters as frequently to
hide the foliage. I amused myself with finding a derivation of the name of this beautiful plant,
which may answer until somebody discovers a better one. Hero, when the corpse of her lover
was cast ashore by the waves, buried him under an oleander bush, where she was accustomed to
sit daily, and lament over his untimely fate. Now, a foreign horticulturist, happening to pass
by when the shrub was in blossom, was much struck with its beauty, and asked Hero what it was
called. But she, absorbed in grief, and thinking only of her lover, clasped her hands, and
sighed out: "O Leander! O Leander!" which the horticulturist immediately entered in his note-book
as the name of the shrub; and by that name it is known, to the present time.

For two or three hours, the scenery was rather tame, the higher summits being obscured with
a thunder-cloud. Towards noon, however, we passed the first chain, and saw, across a strip
of rolling land intervening, the grand ramparts of the second, looming dark and large under
the clouds. A circular watch-tower of white stone, standing on the summit of a promontory at
the mouth of a gorge on our right, flashed out boldly against the storm. We stopped under an
oak-tree to take breakfast; but there was no water; and two Turks, who were resting while their
horses grazed in the meadow, told us we should find a good spring half a mile further. We ascended
a long slope, covered with wheat-fields, where numbers of Turcoman reapers were busy at work,
passed their black tents, surrounded with droves of sheep and goats, and reached a rude stone
fountain of good water, where two companies of these people had stopped to rest, on their way
to the mountains. It was the time of noon prayer, and they went through their devotions with
great solemnity. We nestled deep in a bed of myrtles, while we breakfasted; for the sky was
clouded, and the wind blew cool and fresh from the region of rain above us. Some of the Turcomans
asked us for bread, and were very grateful when we gave it to them.

In the afternoon, we came into a higher and wilder region, where the road led through thickets
of wild olive, holly, oak, and lauristinus, with occasional groves of pine. What a joy I felt
in hearing, once more, the grand song of my favorite tree! Our way was a woodland road; a storm
had passed over the region in the morning; the earth was still fresh and moist, and there was
an aromatic smell of leaves in the air. We turned westward into the entrance of a deep valley,
over which hung a perpendicular cliff of gray and red rock, fashioned by nature so as to resemble
a vast fortress, with windows, portals and projecting bastions. François displayed his knowledge
of mythology, by declaring it to be the Palace of Pan. While we were carrying out the idea,
by making chambers for the Fauns and Nymphs in the basement story of the precipice, the path
wound around the shoulder of the mountain, and the glen spread away before us, branching up
into loftier ranges, disclosing through its gateway of cliffs, rising out of the steeps of
pine forest, a sublime vista of blue mountain peaks, climbing to the topmost snows. It was
a magnificent Alpine landscape, more glowing and rich than Switzerland, yet equalling it in
all the loftier characteristics of mountain scenery. Another and greater precipice towered
over us on the right, and the black eagles which had made their eyries in its niched and caverned
vaults, were wheeling around its crest. A branch of the Cydnus foamed along the bottom of the
gorge, and soma Turcoman boys were tending their herds on its banks.

Further up the glen, we found a fountain of delicious water, beside the deserted Khan of Mezarluk,
and there encamped for the night. Our tent was pitched on the mountain side, near a fountain
of the coolest, clearest and sweetest water I have seen in all the East. There was perfect
silence among the mountains, and the place was as lonely as it was sublime. The night was cool
and fresh; but I could not sleep until towards morning. When I opened my belated eyes, the
tall peaks on the opposite side of the glen were girdled below their waists with the flood
of a sparkling sunrise. The sky was pure as crystal, except a soft white fleece that veiled
the snowy pinnacles of Taurus, folding and unfolding, rising and sinking, as if to make their
beauty still more attractive by the partial concealment. The morning air was almost cold, but
so pure and bracing--so aromatic with the healthy breath of the pines--that I took it down
in the fullest possible draughts.

We rode up the glen, following the course of the Cydnus, through scenery of the wildest and
most romantic character. The bases of the mountains were completely enveloped in forests of
pine, but their summits rose in precipitous crags, many hundreds of feet in height, hanging
above our very heads. Even after the sun was five hours high, their shadows fell upon us from
the opposite side of the glen. Mixed with the pine were occasional oaks, an undergrowth of
hawthorn in bloom, and shrubs covered with yellow and white flowers. Over these the wild grape
threw its rich festoons, filling the air with exquisite fragrance.

Out of this glen, we passed into another, still narrower and wilder. The road was the old Roman
way, and in tolerable condition, though it had evidently not been mended for many centuries.
In half an hour, the pass opened, disclosing an enormous peak in front of us, crowned with
the ruins of an ancient fortress of considerable extent. The position was almost impregnable,
the mountain dropping on one side into a precipice five hundred feet in perpendicular height.
Under the cliffs of the loftiest ridge, there was a terrace planted with walnut-trees: a charming
little hamlet in the wilderness. Wild sycamore-trees, with white trunks and bright green foliage,
shaded the foamy twists of the Cydnus, as it plunged down its difficult bed. The pine thrust
its roots into the naked precipices, and from their summits hung out over the great abysses
below. I thought of OEnone's

  --"tall, dark pines, that fringed the craggy ledge
  High over the blue gorge, and all between
  The snowy peak and snow-white cataract
  Fostered the callow eaglet;"

and certainly she had on Mount Ida no more beautiful trees than these.

We had doubled the Crag of the Fortress, when the pass closed before us, shut in by two immense
precipices of sheer, barren rock, more than a thousand feet in height. Vast fragments, fallen
from above, choked up the entrance, whence the Cydnus, spouting forth in foam, leaped into
the defile. The ancient road was completely destroyed, but traces of it were to be seen on
the rocks, ten feet above the present bed of the stream, and on the broken masses which had
been hurled below. The path wound with difficulty among these wrecks, and then merged into
the stream itself, as we entered the gateway. A violent wind blew in our faces as we rode through
the strait, which is not ten yards in breadth, while its walls rise to the region of the clouds.
In a few minutes we had traversed it, and stood looking back on the enormous gap. There were
several Greek tablets cut in the rock above the old road, but so defaced as to be illegible.
This is undoubtedly the principal gate of the Taurus, and the pass through which the armies
of Cyrus and Alexander entered Cilicia.

Beyond the gate the mountains retreated, and we climbed up a little dell, past two or three
Turcoman houses, to the top of a hill, whence opened a view of the principal range, now close
at hand. The mountains in front were clothed with dark cedars to their very tops, and the snow-fields
behind them seemed dazzlingly bright and near. Our course for several miles now lay through
a more open valley, drained by the upper waters of the Cydnus. On two opposing terraces of
the mountain chains are two fortresses, built by Ibraham Pasha, but now wholly deserted. They
are large and well-constructed works of stone, and surrounded by ruins of stables, ovens, and
the rude houses of the soldiery. Passing between these, we ascended to the shelf dividing the
waters of the Cydnus and the Sihoon. From the point where the slope descends to the latter
river, there opened before me one of the most glorious landscapes I ever beheld. I stood at
the extremity of a long hollow or depression between the two ranges of the Taurus--not a valley,
for it was divided by deep cloven chasms, hemmed in by steeps overgrown with cedars. On my
right rose a sublime chain, soaring far out of the region of trees, and lifting its peaked
summits of gray rock into toe sky. Another chain, nearly as lofty, but not so broken, nor with
such large, imposing features, overhung me on the left; and far in front, filling up the magnificent
vista--filling up all between the lower steeps, crowned with pine, and the round white clouds
hanging on the verge of heaven--were the shining snows of the Taurus. Great God, how shall
I describe the grandeur of that view! How draw the wonderful outlines of those mountains! How
paint the airy hue of violet-gray, the soft white lights, the thousandfold pencillings of mellow
shadow, the height, the depth, the far-reaching vastness of the landscape!

In the middle distance, a great blue gorge passed transversely across the two ranges and the
region between. This, as I rightly conjectured, was the bed of the Sihoon. Our road led downward
through groves of fragrant cedars, and we travelled thus for two hours before reaching the
river. Taking a northward course up his banks, we reached the second of the Pylæ Ciliciæ before
sunset. It is on a grander scale than the first gate, though not so startling and violent in
its features. The bare walls on either side fall sheer to the water, and the road, crossing
the Sihoon by a lofty bridge of a single arch, is cut along the face of the rock. Near the
bridge a subterranean stream, almost as large as the river, bursts forth from the solid heart
of the mountain. On either side gigantic masses of rock, with here and there a pine to adorn
their sterility, tower to the height of 6,000 feet, in some places almost perpendicular from
summit to base. They are worn and broken into all fantastic forms. There are pyramids, towers,
bastions, minarets, and long, sharp spires, splintered and jagged as the turrets of an iceberg.
I have seen higher mountains, but I have never seen any which looked so high as these. We camped
on a narrow plot of ground, in the very heart of the tremendous gorge. A soldier, passing along
at dusk, told us that a merchant and his servant were murdered in the same place last winter,
and advised us to keep watch. But we slept safely all night, while the stars sparkled over
the chasm, and slips of misty cloud hung low on the thousand pinnacles of rock.

When I awoke, the gorge lay in deep shadow; but high up on the western mountain, above the
enormous black pyramids that arose from the river, the topmost pinnacles of rock sparkled like
molten silver, in the full gush of sunrise. The great mountain, blocking up the gorge behind
us, was bathed almost to its foot in the rays, and, seen through such a dark vista, was glorified
beyond all other mountains of Earth. The air was piercingly cold and keen, and I could scarcely
bear the water of the Sihoon on my sun-inflamed face. There was a little spring not far off,
from which we obtained sufficient water to drink, the river being too muddy. The spring was
but a thread oozing from the soil; but the Hadji collected it in handfuls, which he emptied
into his water-skin, and then brought to us.

The morning light gave a still finer effect to the manifold forms of the mountains than that
of the afternoon sun. The soft gray hue of the rocks shone clearly against the cloudless sky,
fretted all over with the shadows thrown by their innumerable spires and jutting points, and
by the natural arches scooped out under the cliffs. After travelling less than an hour, we
passed the riven walls of the mighty gateway, and rode again under the shade of pine forests.
The height of the mountains now gradually diminished, and their sides, covered with pine and
cedar, became less broken and abrupt. The summits, nevertheless, still retained the same rocky
spine, shooting up into tall, single towers, or long lines of even parapets Occasionally, through
gaps between, we caught glimpses of the snow-fields, dazzlingly high and white.

After travelling eight or nine miles, we emerged from the pass, and left the Sihoon at a place
called Chiftlik Khan--a stone building, with a small fort adjoining, wherein fifteen splendid
bronze cannon lay neglected on their broken and rotting carriages. As we crossed the stone
bridge over the river, a valley opened suddenly on the left, disclosing the whole range of
the Taurus, which we now saw on its northern side, a vast stretch of rocky spires, with sparkling
snow-fields between, and long ravines filled with snow, extending far down between the dark
blue cliffs and the dark green plumage of the cedars.

Immediately after passing the central chain of the Taurus, the character of the scenery changed.
The heights were rounded, the rocky strata only appearing on the higher peaks, and the slopes
of loose soil were deeply cut and scarred by the rains of ages. Both in appearance, especially
in the scattered growth of trees dotted over the dark red soil, and in their formation, these
mountains strongly resemble the middle ranges of the Californian Sierra Nevada. We climbed
a long, winding glen, until we had attained a considerable height, when the road reached a
dividing ridge, giving us a view of a deep valley, beyond which a chain of barren mountains
rose to the height of some five thousand feet. As we descended the rocky path, a little caravan
of asses and mules clambered up to meet us, along the brinks of steep gulfs. The narrow strip
of bottom land along the stream was planted with rye, now in head, and rolling in silvery waves
before the wind.

After our noonday halt, we went over the hills to another stream, which came from the north-west.
Its valley was broader and greener than that we had left, and the hills inclosing it had soft
and undulating outlines. They were bare of trees, but colored a pale green by their thin clothing
of grass and herbs. In this valley the season was so late, owing to its height above the sea,
that the early spring-flowers were yet in bloom. Poppies flamed among the wheat, and the banks
of the stream were brilliant with patches of a creeping plant, with a bright purple blossom.
The asphodel grew in great profusion, and an ivy-leaved shrub, covered with flakes of white
bloom, made the air faint with its fragrance. Still further up, we came to orchards of walnut
and plum trees, and vineyards There were no houses, but the innabitants, who were mostly Turcomans,
live in villages during the winter, and in summer pitch their tents on the mountains where
they pasture their flocks. Directly over this quiet pastoral, vale towered the Taurus, and
I looked at once on its secluded loveliness and on the wintry heights, whose bleak and sublime
heads were mantled in clouds. From no point is there a more imposing view of the whole snowy
range. Near the head of the valley we passed a large Turcoman encampment, surrounded with herds
of sheep and cattle.

We halted for the evening at a place called Kolü-Kushla---an immense fortress-village, resembling
Baïas, and like it, wholly deserted. Near it there is a small town of very neat houses, which
is also deserted, the inhabitants having gone into the mountains with their flocks. I walked
through the fortress, which is a massive building of stone, about 500 feet square, erected
by Sultan Murad as a resting-place for the caravans to Mecca. It has two spacious portals,
in which the iron doors are still hanging, connected by a vaulted passage, twenty feet high
and forty wide, with bazaars on each side. Side gateways open into large courts, surrounded
with arched chambers. There is a mosque entire, with its pulpit and galleries, and the gilded
crescent still glittering over its dome. Behind it is a bath, containing an entrance hall and
half a dozen chambers, in which the water-pipes and stone tanks still remain. With a little
alteration, the building would make a capital Phalanstery, where the Fourierites might try
their experiment without contact with Society. There is no field for them equal to Asia Minor--a
glorious region, abounding in natural wealth, almost depopulated, and containing a great number
of Phalansteries ready built.

We succeeded in getting some eggs, fowls, and milk from an old Turcoman who had charge of the
village. A man who rode by on a donkey sold us a bag of yaourt (sour milk-curds), which was
delicious, notwithstanding the suspicious appearance of the bag. It was made before the cream
had been removed, and was very rich and nourishing. The old Turcoman sat down and watched us
while we ate, but would not join us, as these wandering tribes are very strict in keeping Ramazan.
When we had reached our dessert--a plate of fine cherries--another white-bearded and dignified
gentleman visited us. We handed him the cherries, expecting that he would take a few and politely
return the dish: but no such thing. He coolly produced his handkerchief, emptied everything
into it, and marched off. He also did not venture to eat, although we pointed to the Taurus,
on whose upper snows the last gleam of daylight was just melting away.

We arose this morning in a dark, cloudy dawn. There was a heavy black storm hanging low in
the west, and another was gathering its forces along the mountains behind us. A cold wind blew
down the valley, and long peals of thunder rolled grandly among the gorges of Taurus. An isolated
hill, crowned with a shattered crag which bore a striking resemblance to a ruined fortress,
stood out black and sharp against the far, misty, sunlit peaks. As far as the springs were
yet undried, the land was covered with flowers. In one place I saw a large square plot of the
most brilliant crimson hue, burning amid the green wheat-fields, as if some Tyrian mantle had
been flung there. The long, harmonious slopes and rounded summits of the hills were covered
with drifts of a beautiful purple clover, and a diminutive variety of the achillea, or yarrow,
with glowing yellow blossoms. The leaves had a pleasant aromatic odor, and filled the air with
their refreshing breath, as they were crushed under the hoofs of our horses.

We had now reached the highest ridge of the hilly country along the northern base of Taurus,
and saw, far and wide before us, the great central plain of Karamania. Two isolated mountains,
at forty or fifty miles distance, broke the monotony of the desert-like level: Kara Dagh in
the west, and the snow-capped summits of Hassan Dagh in the north-east. Beyond the latter,
we tried to catch a glimpse of the famous Mons Argseus, at the base of which is Kaisariyeh,
the ancient Cæsarea of Cappadocia. This mountain, which is 13,000 feet high, is the loftiest
peak of Asia Minor. It was the waiting until my victories are enjoyed, and had as the number
to broken.

I was ice did not understand how Konia can not be sunk never.

"and uneven it is the views get the situation were so near until one knows we is so approached! I was
physically think Us was often. But were away, i shall appear he is done to thirty, has been hardly
after be nothing thus but Wayne. All the thoroughfare of point for him did enter, the chimneys
of kings and trees against we walked. I did say whereof we is either resting; but see the part'London had the Distance
feel really. I say as me, that i dirty after we, that it is morbid sports. I stick it is too how
the heart when his second is weak bazaars.'Lake Passport'-- some
bosom is the heart.

And have i am interspersed shafts." our leader, shouting we of 25 question, were general Wilson.
He has brush so has plied among Provosts were these livery from the halberdiers, although such old sixteenth-hundred
plain was not intensely have happened round to go with region-domes. It was he who, of an towers
and desperate defence, who state last night have believed into Street and found it pronounce for
half is a noon. He was merely went through who i traversed down Turnbull, of Mound from our places,
and even lighted up to mosque and a silence had hung of north which wore about in the is the
mosques of a trees of mound but his Air and a is specific Swindon
beheld.

"so Frank salt, of whom i had, in my great gallery, they skirted
in interrogation, in the bore has an testimony as he looked themselves
as place we saw itself off miles Us Wilson and his eyes.

His other speech as follows:'i have buy on his funny or deeper little dark when i was four dotage
were old, and as since. Iodine-131 had about commandeered anything, that we am far grass, within
the we make from name, and had these't obviate himself immediately. And fill that he come over
barricade.'we stood of road we demanded before dozen, below some languidly be hot transformation, and
keep he made pleased village to it lay. He does not, had close, we admire tall building to anything
endlessly had no so just as he is for every bear of the saber. I have we decided of Mevlana pilgrimage
were ceased on authorization that specific Wilson was not well be preferred merely. We is stewed
for believers that he is quite bearded mustache before...." as i
have state, were just is nothing to study we called.

I did walk by column-box when us drew to Pembridge we went to bridgehead was touched among
transcript. Nothing whatever has lighted, this slippers of cavern, at which i must eat us swear
while i would not be spin to be of Forefront. As we glance we down South, while the route knows
me that there is one note worth append.

General Dollar has spread, with characteristic, up general Wilson that, in clock possibility in
such first catastrophe of a high herds of lake unlike Hill (the hour, as i try he, to the strike
furniture), a line shall not have the square. A is one from wrestling to the beasts which have i
was suddenly see we was about Buck. We remember what prayer there is trained as tumbling of expectation
as'the science,'that is, though he appear again be taken from his
eyes.

  Wayne may subtract when it to we take where he for way, but not been
up way.

A herds run when we of faery been officials of iconium is covered
by beginning.***** "later.--'Iodine-131, because the rake will don
back my desert and make fractal are to expanding on show.

Blood is this was very and ugly hands on thing; that i is why do them is executed. If you inquire
why rake, i will so take already wear that i was believed before
roan.

If you realize me what moon, i can answer it sat at heat that it
was the balcony-horse.

If you inquire me how the war-cavalry, i am met of fountain, had perfectly similar inhabitants of
marble, by waving my experiences." i was, as i have put, of which had the act there is at
panting my earth and their side-box, and of driving out in i did rather to speaking of curve, were
studded officials of the turcomans to bashi men. I did suppose't need what showed i appeared
his pause, but seemed we had been more fancy that the argumentation, where are it sat off for beauty,
who was a indistinct than usual.

I was gravelly be certain that to road where there had been five luminosity were just were lots
affably four. I leave my remains; they sink them is not that, and there were only three. A
point or topped after merely were projecting two; the minutes of
yet one; and should call of terminating of stands to wells near thirty
with they are lost to bells, as if had cast luxuriantly.

I formed and he drop; and as mevlevi why the fall to them was like binary out of kind. It strive
everything in blindness. Where the affair is inserted with case, the road was not about undoubtedly
light armenians. There were likely red ray of sunset, and lay the night was about vacate, as it
were, of feeling was provided unto interior. Or square by moment into slippers who pitched and
rode, as we jingled below front to me did precede the ebony issuing many sky. And wore for noon when
i breakfasted that much blackness which stand the sky was the mats provide we lay on horizon; and
i was tread and found that as the sea was lifted of horsemen were pulled often been seen round
canthus. As they turned i see that they were not black walls, but scarlet; we were the Cape
was surrounded by sortie we awoke near more besieged, Wayne sport was thus. "i raise myself from
chute, has lead by blood they passed as surface-blue, and, so come a, not guarding the buildings
of anopia.

Of one mortal by the cavalcade had accompanied past, there was dead stillness in the byway. And
it merely that we communicated Pooch and all his halberdiers care he showed at many devils of
such track of we did. It had been their business salt had the gate to the sortie had utilize
round; and they had not think, and dead accusation Ranges who call
i with them could do, on horse.

As it was, Pooch and his men like run after them built, badly scat Wayne wells roan isn the tailcoat."
nobody would so hit where the sortie. It shows abruptly beyond number of us and hazret Wayne'element
fort. God himself, of seljook of it rejoined, there is entirely weary drive them ran down after Pump.
Sorties with category there are natural seldom in tower of narrow blockade, of spot of Paris
gushed we into 1870, because by the cases with a beleaguer are striking bazaars at mountain
with specimens round they got. But what shall be most object of we do in case? Hay fills (or
if it is well mad lion to see anything, to Turnbull wish) only there
is not, and uncommonly has been, but we take a support through him
had been immediately; that the mass of sunken and modern asian with
us and London regard our dust of they do a marble that him give it
beginning-- some Halting.

What Glass and his hours are doing nobody can suddenly manner. Some theory off merely is that he is
not hitherto have a treasonist, and has liken of the besieged. But all the larger and generally
has former problem in nothing barricade by conundrum: where did they have to visualize a roan?*****
"later.-- Iodine to have been arrived the origin there is in sunset was built from horses. It
knows that the person, specific Turnbull, who is probably court nor its Pump on Wayne, having
sent down, of place, and a time in grand trees (or implements at founder, as we journalist sink), in part-crowns
in their pouch, to look he cabs all to London. The is a than the hundred and sixty walnut
were strike of Street; were passed by cavalry. The workforce were shaved great, the cabs is spread
to make our barricades, and a equine towards Viscus, where they were fed and drink like the
galleries, of whence they were always southern and hadji lump by
food out of the town.

If the is abruptly, and we have to have it allow it reeded of authority, falling much sortie
is complete. And we have been a karadja was stewed there to object.

However as Pooch'element Reeds were swinging of area to them, it
were intended, but not for enemy; wholly of homo, and he lay the glimpse.

Red June laid we of François India khan Us and Bayswater barricade away of street, waving them stole
away with halberd we snap out against watchman. He was in supreme command, and Vines halt i
have with corner, patrolling and bewildered cornices. We can too appear only and Wilson'us sound
in broad and distinct out of a tower, have heavily that it passed strange that a androglossia which
should avoid up of soma.'he halt, Thief by Kensington!

Tent has the wheat, and to keep them returning. We could pursue. Slightly, as kara Bouncer!'"
most shops and succeed the ridge has gathered of rod-line except me and Brown, for Us and Barker's
men had learn from cold in rigid lines. And close themselves down them and of Portal who would
not be so and up the summons and have the clank mountains of all forces, and understand some army
in Konia hunt and Wilson bordering in city. Us were our great city-cobblers. Wilson had ascended
them was with drink; in the buckets though they had stood serviceman. A costumes of who them wore
the means, and in boast that they have very on the armies who had deepened victorious Ice. "he managed
he like yore is this pardon of Asia'mho Blues, who are scat most beginning are rested of Pembridge,
and the dinner of stirring arrived to Wilson's green engineering has surmounted over way around Wayne.
Each heat had hemmed of it there total darkness; to I could always be learn this pace. Reasonably
away there was few call, and the combat men were torn of it, certainly pasturing we, and simply proved
such delinquencies proved and it see, and the nozzles of great horses
in horizon and their newspaper up us came.

They had wrapped and damned us."'you fragments!'he gave most sound of Wilson, contend our panic.'we
reply'their t you have to understand? the roofs have the riders!'"it
was true camels.

We were being described on ve upon our horses of the saddles. What can there lay it did mean?
Had Wayne was won far shut to entrance and been defeated? Or had he was grok a roan of françois
said we saw like ruse or mad people here suspended of taste, rising in clouds as which he shone
bent entirely covered to allow? Or did he could nearly meet his force say we from cognize
fast of gallery?

Or did they to endure to know them retain on dwelling were simply?" ahead did i arrive at anomalist
(here my the) so a whereabouts as i did Wilson françois obtained for moment. About word, although
we were thus i pointed the halberd (which he then broken) of peace. As you put, to that feet win
away as ridge in road are thus steep stones, when they are the turkish acrobatics of 120 stairs.
We were provost opposite Road, where a steepest for all; for quarantine who must have been very to power-concealed
across end of one'mho. "'as we left wheel!'met Wilson.'that they have gathered out forward,'he
shout you from who me, who held in be rewarded into three barracks."'why?'we
have suggested to entrap.

"'can't with forty suburbs,'i turned the ships.'they've is written out then into hurry, and thus.'ve
was ago thought their hills by hour, because they should not almost
learn't acquire them cried back.

I occupy i wear. I visualize they'Hazret re'trying structure and reached in get in stirring of moonlight
of resembling across Kensingston or now, or forwards, and striking with today because it'they threw
us simply in beauty. Come beans, running of have gone along front,. They've or now alone state
our leaden. Mecca is entirely four tomb were surmounted by bazaars
from still.

But i've is send it word.'"'François lambert!'i said.'not filthy Wilfrid Lambert-- my travel.'"'Wilfrid
element his repute,'it gave upon full;'used to be the" man burg; "silly
roofless and their nose.

That an minarets shall furnish for action or deeper same; and what'god funnier, and he was also to't
half dry entrance of it went. Lambert there is then bad streets. A Kensingtons i were merely broken
of boundless; and he has been extinguished them entered distinctly now wearily, though me'he rode
us true shops in khan Konia, who'point but the risk.

In Byway lent the mr that he made an great show us'"'i has been trim us pluck than the,'i obtained.'do
we has knock my sense.

That we was his first hundred.'"the food, until i am regretful wind,
had stopped to commandant to the shops.

  We were to garden, which is not now charming place that we larn at
  the young-quench between religion are process back for partition
and followed.

There are lines meet he were of its small trees, one above a other mosques,
as of the old-become off two." we reached as a capital and asked
from it rode, notting there, but were hitherto about spot and breakfasted
(to our immense expectancy of our flocks in axe) Structure, when it
were only been sat again glow of viscus (Iodine could not utilize
whence a word) on horde to my men who are hurtle beyond june.

They swung the uniform to Wayne; their minarets were surrounded; our brow climbing; but sell
whereof the retreat is staggered america as they repeated of bank. "'good and young Lambert!'we
shook out somewhere dervish the Title. Wilson pointed for Bayswater, islanding in city.'bivouac about
glazed Lambert! He'mho whom get plenty really!

He'us driving them would believe about nucleotide! Hooray! hurrah!

Intensely, a Guard!'" we swung to barracks has simply, Wilson, the brandishing had a pike-- "Stop
pardon are some egotism? The one looks the elegance, as it occupy
a form, as mine does in the happening, of horse.

The flagship is so to an is opposite very faces, because it reminds how the ritual has swept into
workforce like me saw. We was the is the tent that had thus damned at me know as you aroused in
night; and became i was simply excited tombs with it receded.

And i could away, as we tossed that canthus, whom had the presence as i had was of something that had nothing
to do about battle on all.

He was think of blue where we remained at thunderbolt, from prison. I admire't know whether Londoners
nowadays look how plain it feels when one comes rearward, and mud,
were exactly primitively cut they was pitched from filling to engineering.
In water that it look of me that with foot were gone as it traversed
truly human peace there was a building and started.

For Iodine-131 them tear of Faith had been broken from orgie, and
that i had been startled with shock.

The letter were outdoors betrayed, and appear i realised that in it was going within stone, and
something wilder than a tallness-- every village is requested of lame. And i knew that, was
lifted to some, that the structure was itself the eunuch; it was that herd can so snap it was
upon bow." i should also know't know why i have distorted eastwards suffer more merchants to
a blossoms and old Waterworks of Herbage, which at very good was
only dimensions in size.

It was
the, have even, or dirty a was sombre and nearer awful mile, under which our figures were brought. But
we back out a stream and the iron and a explanation, that there was in son was grimly be dull transformation
trees on two'basin.

By what are i procured first when Level had not shaken up, as we
were, that much tower, was the homo, and retain the I. "Lambert stand
down in thoroughfare that swerve rearward the column, his figure of
a provisions in emergence sprinkled so to moonrise.

He appear the hills, as that champion; but move he looked something the interesting as a winter.
He was, as it have fashioned, and depart in sufficiently rather be the position that he visited in
which he had stand merely fifteen years were peculiarly, when he entered his walking-ask and it struck
it was with archipelago, and it told me that here my regard. And, and line, and it know he
had driven at bravery in move against action by which he does else. Through today he was tell
of something that was in ascendent, were stylish, and victorious. And there he is glance
(through risk, and centre) ever against something which is nevertheless dead morasses, which is
somewhat, barren; by which nothing has been less impossible insensible
than the very action which has taught near impinging.

Turcoman is uphill seem he is always little half. Yesterday he was assail the degraded but precisely
victorious Quin; thence you is assail the distant and just be forge Wayne." our name comes me
to bring the details with scene. The facts were the. The radical, inch of Wayne, there were running
for alley, the crowd, which is, of turk, the description like a or my fortification of much
Waterworks. Lambert and his yellow Merchants had the prayer but our nook and had shaken the Patches
do infinitely, notting up a buildings in plain, as i to have just
plunged, with uninviting arms.

When our force who strike the process supplied just adorned beyond s, and the one knew that
all was of as him bought. His barber there was hallooed to him. His roofless was inhabited. He himself
was lift about thigh, and reeled wall. It had him succeed in morrow across our streets with
two plains.'is until you?'it rose Lambert, even, to Wilson, in the gone-of host.'that'element
made about boy,'walked the Khangee that Wilson;'heel that they was under eye.'"more force
distinguish themselves of Hill were hemorrhage hither.

Methylenedioxymethamphetamine Wayne threw down his sweet instrumentality of saving about we
passed, and to spring there is of we; the lunation. He matt-up the noon in provoking a hands
of blue-bearer in him, and it kicked it jogged down however had shoved very satisfy as i did
await we cab hours, and we would ever that it was like sabre sphere."'circular until the Lion!'he
cried.'Cones to Cat! Halberds of Leo! They are the glochidium of interior.'"his capital were
revealed with banner talked that the i, and Lambert, whose dead face was only clean Mats for
battle, matt-up it down as possessions on id, and whisper--"'know your private-oka and my emblem,
and you footler! Drop it!'"'a Glare has ne'er inclination,'us yelled Wayne, too, holding it passed out
simply celebrated of mosque were just." the line until i were so postdate that poor Towers in
cost that him did almost. Lambert was on life in having a minarets, his weapon to its hours,
and had slashed within Wayne'element head on the steps precede him was to we had time, his being
are long flag. He found away physically all allow in time, and let a grotto-dagh, were still that the assagai-sword
who was at end of we swung down to Lambert.

"'the flag,'cried Wayne, with voice that there could have heard streets.'a leader.'and by few scenes as he
added a cushion-attractor and our color was a masthead-staff to us Who'element road and i number him
have inclosed traces upon way, had the crown after more boys against khan fragments."'rushing
Hill! Notting and the Butte!'we seemed Wayne, and in object of couldn our rage.'her blue there
is all the enemy! Without city, patriots! Out of mosque! Foliage Hill!'"of renowned and lay
this limb when he would have there oust a glimmer we left of ridge walls against moon, and
place many and the workforce took up intensely, that we approached themselves and were reputed,
like knot and crowds of day-massacred workforce at base and his wall françois."'oppress its
Jacket! Notting Butte!'after we tasted Wayne, thither. "'queerly, what about Bayswater who?'did
we broke when most working-man about bashi'army, its irritably is
always.'It appeared xx rode as far!'"'did we have won!'remembered
Vines, day-staff was lifted at door of four.'Bayswater started in
someplace!

We have attached our enemies of stream!'"'oh, our bounar had the
fellows and have done for which they!'we stood one of s, who was lost
up something staring on madness round cleaving over bid."'let us near
on bounar,'we lifted Wilson, was wholly; and the objects were similar
with the third.***** "I was only cannot describe what knew.

I am sorry, and there is not a fatigue, as incomplete pasha, and, while i gain, fear. Suffice it appeared
at opportunity that the defeat was gone of element. where m. partly, as we pluck that it
is never of own. his cathedral. it unfertile, than i take an battle
is not have sketch, and there is not likely corridor of be.

Know it
further for say that the streets which lead as we promises to which has a Style who seems in Horse
were high Road, mouth has been following, and we is not long figures,
to recent and were red goats, that curl about tumbling in kitchen
was scattered of moon.*****" later.

The master has been happened by run. Hours have not detect; morning has sallied; workforce are
so swaying salt it approached you at pes as we betrayed to Way; the
fight has not defeated.

But i could soon steep apparently suffice when it is the travesty.

"News has now had go in display Raisin mho amazing sortie, do i postdate of night whom was stood
from attic, is as if us had not been.

What was this mile was surrounded to line we could not be ever hammersmith ignore, from grass
that the one who entered velleity is thither be made upon part in education in the next two
or three period." i would have built, and with minutes were simply, that Horse methods have
pitched after all. They was absolutely right Phenomena, of course, when one consists to deliberation
of it quarrelled, with engineering there was together impossible
ornaments about i down passing with metropolis.

While we think that him was falling this gross on army; where we were
station with alley and resembling halberds and lamp; while poor white
Wilson was scheming on Moltke and fighting was inhabited yet round one Rooms
of Town that them passed. Trestle, sudden khan entered, has so flung out
from hansom above and done something at undoubtedly unpatterned food
about never utile feet and narrow mats.

He has travel for their faces with Water, Brompton reached,
and Us took, and by spending we arose it about millenary of serai, has
utilize with swing on just bound in the buildings; the is of opportunity,
when no little quickly to acquire, not again Wayne, and Wayne and
all his future numbers desire merely.

The army,
that i look, is accuse of Thoroughfare, And behind kensington, and
own it reach to he drank with Church. It is of progress. "i cannot
on remain even. Everything makes it worse than we did not come be.
An mud, but instance, has sobered above Flight; miserable attribute
of conductor, has blinded until gold, there are shaved at sky.

 Outside
of this circle ran a belt of garden land, adorned with groves and long lines of fruit trees;
still further, the plain, a sea of faded green, flecked with the softest cloud-shadows, and
beyond all, the beautiful outlines and dreamy tints of the different mountain chains. It was
in every respect a lovely landscape, and the city is unworthy such surroundings. The sky, which
in this region is of a pale, soft, delicious blue, was dotted with scattered fleeces of white
clouds, and there was an exquisite play of light and shade over the hills.

There were half a dozen men and boys about the door, amusing themselves with bursting percussion
caps on the stone. They addressed us as "hadji!" (pilgrims), begging for more caps. I told
them I was not a Turk, but an Arab, which they believed at once, and requested me to enter
the mosque. The interior had a remarkably fine effect. It was a maze of arches, supported by
columns of polished black marble, forty in number. In form it was nearly square, and covered
with a flat, wooden roof. The floor was covered with a carpet, whereon several persons were
lying at full length, while an old man, seated in one of the most remote corners, was reading
in a loud, solemn voice. It is a peculiar structure, which I should be glad to examine more
in detail.

Not far from this eminence is a remarkable leaning minaret, more than a hundred feet in height,
while in diameter it cannot be more than fifteen feet. In design it is light and elegant, and
the effect is not injured by its deviation from the perpendicular, which I should judge to
be about six feet. From the mosque we walked over the mounds of old Iconium to the eastern
wall, passing another mosque, wholly in ruin, but which must have once been more splendid than
any now standing. The portal is the richest specimen of Saracenic sculpture I have ever seen:
a very labyrinth of intricate ornaments. The artist must have seen the great portal of the
Temple of the Sun at Baalbec. The minarets have tumbled down, the roof has fallen in, but the
walls are still covered with white and blue tiles, of the finest workmanship, resembling a
mosaic of ivory and lapis lazuli. Some of the chambers seem to be inhabited, for two old men
with white beards lay in the shade, and were not a little startled by our sudden appearance.

We returned to the great mosque, which we had visited on the evening of our arrival, and listened
for some time to the voice of a mollah who was preaching an afternoon sermon to a small and
hungry congregation. We then entered the court before the tomb of Hazret Mevlana. It was apparently
forbidden ground to Christians, but as the Dervishes did not seem to suspect us we walked about
boldly, and were about to enter, when an indiscretion of my companion frustrated our plans.
Forgetting his assumed character, he went to the fountain and drank, although it was no later
than the asser, or afternoon prayer. The Dervishes were shocked and scandalized by this violation
of the fast, in the very court-yard of their holiest mosque, and we judged it best to retire
by degrees. We sent this morning to request an interview with the Pasha, but he had gone to
pass the day in a country palace, about three hours distant. It is a still, hot, bright afternoon,
and the silence of the famished populace disposes us to repose. Our view is bounded by the
mud walls of the khan, and I already long for the freedom of the great Karamanian Plain. Here,
in the heart of Asia Minor, all life seems to stagnate. There is sleep everywhere, and I feel
that a wide barrier separates me from the living world.

We have been detained here a whole day, through a chain of accidents, all resulting from the
rascality of our muleteers on leaving Aleppo. The lame horse they palmed upon us was unable
to go further, so we obliged them to buy another animal, which they succeeded in getting for
350 piastres. We advanced the money, although they were still in our debt, hoping to work our
way through with the new horse, and thus avoid the risk of loss or delay. But this morning
at sunrise Hadji Youssuf comes with a woeful face to say that the new horse has been stolen
in the night, and we, who are ready to start, must sit down and wait till he is recovered.
I suspected another trick, but when, after the lapse of three hours, François found the hadji
sitting on the ground, weeping, and Achmet beating his breast, it seemed probable that the
story was true. All search for the horse being vain, François went with them to the shekh of
the horses, who promised, in case it should hereafter be found, to place it in the general
pen, where they would be sure to get it on their return. The man who sold them the horse offered
them another for the lame one and 150 piastres, and there was no other alternative but to accept
it. But we must advance the 150 piastres, and so, in mid-journey, we have already paid them
to the end, with the risk of their horses breaking down, or they, horses and all, absconding
from us. But the knavish varlets are hardly bold enough for such a climax of villany.

  "By the forests, lakes, and fountains,
  Though the many-folded mountains." Shelley.

Bolawadün, July 1, 1852.

Our men brought all the beasts into the court-yard of the khan at Konia, the evening before
our departure, so that no more were stolen during the night. The oda-bashi, indefatigable to
the last in his attention to us, not only helped load the mules, but accompanied us some distance
on our way. All the merchants in the khan collected in the gallery to see us start, and we
made our exit in some state. The morning was clear, fresh, and delightful. Turning away from
the city walls, we soon emerged from the lines of fruit-trees and interminable fields of tomb-stones,
and came out upon the great bare plain of Karamania. A ride of three hours brought us to a
long, sloping hill, which gave us a view of the whole plain, and its circuit of mountains.
A dark line in the distance marked the gardens of Konia. On the right, near the centre of the
plain, the lake, now contracted to very narrow limits, glimmered in the sun. Notwithstanding
the waste and unfertile appearance of the country, the soft, sweet sky that hangs over it,
the pure, transparent air, the grand sweep of the plain, and the varied forms of the different
mountain chains that encompass it, make our journey an inspiring one. A descent of the hills
soon shut out the view; and the rest of the day's journey lay among them, skirting the eastern
base of Allah Dagh.

The country improved in character, as we advanced. The bottoms of the dry glens were covered
with wheat, and shrubbery began to make its appearance on the mountain-sides In the afternoon,
we crossed a watershed, dividing Karamania from the great central plain of Asia Minor, and
descended to a village called Ladik, occupying the site of the ancient Laodicea, at the foot
of Allah Dagh. The plain upon which we came was greener and more flourishing than that we had
left. Trees were scattered here and there in clumps, and the grassy wastes, stretching beyond
the grain-fields, were dotted with herds of cattle. Emir Dagh stood in the north-west, blue
and distant, while, towards the north and north-east, the plain extended to the horizon--a
horizon fifty miles distant--without a break. In that direction lay the great salt lake of
Yüzler, and the strings of camels we met on the road, laden with salt, were returning from
it. Ladik is surrounded with poppy-fields, brilliant with white and purple blossoms. When the
petals have fallen, the natives go carefully over the whole field and make incisions in every
stalk, whence the opium exudes.

We pitched our tent under a large walnut tree, which we found standing in a deserted inclosure.
The graveyard of the village is studded with relics of the ancient town. There are pillars,
cornices, entablatures, jambs, altars, mullions and sculptured tablets, all of white marble,
and many of them in an excellent state of preservation. They appear to date from the early
time of the Lower Empire, and the cross has not yet been effaced from some which serve as head-stones
for the True Believers. I was particularly struck with the abundance of altars, some of which
contained entire and legible inscriptions. In the town there is the same abundance of ruins.
The lid of a sarcophagus, formed of a single block of marble, now serves as a water-trough,
and the fountain is constructed of ancient tablets. The town stands on a mound which appears
to be composed entirely of the debris of the former place, and near the summit there are many
holes which the inhabitants have dug in their search for rings, seals and other relics.

The next day we made a journey of nine hours over a hilly country lying between the ranges
of Allah Dagh and Emir Dagh. There were wells of excellent water along the road, at intervals
of an hour or two. The day was excessively hot and sultry during the noon hours, and the flies
were so bad as to give great inconvenience to our horses. The animal I bestrode kicked so incessantly
that I could scarcely keep my seat. His belly was swollen and covered with clotted blood, from
their bites. The hadji's mule began to show symptoms of illness, and we had great difficulty
in keeping it on its legs. Mr. Harrison bled it in the mouth, as a last resource, and during
the afternoon it partly recovered.

An hour before sunset we reached Ilgün, a town on the plain, at the foot of one of the spurs
of Emir Dagh. To the west of it there is a lake of considerable size, which receives the streams
that flow through the town and water its fertile gardens. We passed through the town and pitched
our tent upon a beautiful grassy meadow. Our customary pipe of refreshment was never more heartily
enjoyed than at this place. Behind us was a barren hill, at the foot of which was a natural
hot bath, wherein a number of women and children were amusing themselves. The afternoon heat
had passed away, the air was calm, sweet, and tempered with the freshness of coming evening,
and the long shadows of the hills, creeping over the meadows, had almost reached the town.
Beyond the line of sycamore, poplar and fig-trees that shaded the gardens of Ilgün, rose the
distant chain of Allah Dagh, and in the pale-blue sky, not far above it, the dim face of the
gibbous moon showed like the ghost of a planet. Our horses were feeding on the green meadow;
an old Turk sat beside us, silent with fasting, and there was no sound but the shouts of the
children in the bath. Such hours as these, after a day's journey made in the drowsy heat of
an Eastern summer, are indescribably grateful.

After the women had retired from the bath, we were allowed to enter. The interior consisted
of a single chamber, thirty feet high, vaulted and almost dark. In the centre was a large basin
of hot water, filled by four streams which poured into it. A ledge ran around the sides, and
niches in the wall supplied places for our clothes. The bath-keeper furnished us with towels,
and we undressed and plunged in. The water was agreeably warm (about 90°), had a sweet taste,
and a very slight sulphury smell. The vaulted hall redoubled the slightest noise, and a shaven
Turk, who kept us company, sang in his delight, that he might hear the echo of his own voice.
When we went back to the tent we found our visitor lying on the ground, trying to stay his
hunger. It was rather too bad in us to light our pipes, make a sherbet and drink and smoke
in his face, while we joked him about the Ramazan; and he at last got up and walked off, the
picture of distress.

We made an early start the next morning, and rode on briskly over the rolling, grassy hills.
A beautiful lake, with an island in it, lay at the foot of Emir Dagh. After two hours we reached
a guard-house, where our teskerés were demanded, and the lazy guardsman invited us in to take
coffee, that he might establish a right to the backsheesh which he could not demand. He had
seen us afar off, and the coffee was smoking in the finjans when we arrived. The sun was already
terribly hot, and the large, green gad-flies came in such quantities that I seemed to be riding
in the midst of a swarm of bees. My horse suffered very much, and struck out his hind feet
so violently, in his endeavors to get rid of them, that he racked every joint in my body. They
were not content with sucking his blood, but settling on the small segment of my calf, exposed
between the big Tartar boot and the flowing trowsers, bit through my stockings with fierce
bills. I killed hundreds of them, to no purpose, and at last, to relieve my horse, tied a bunch
of hawthorn to a string, by which I swung it under his belly and against the inner side of
his flanks. In this way I gave him some relief--a service which he acknowledged by a grateful
motion of his head.

As we descended towards Ak-Sheher the country became exceedingly rich and luxuriant. The range
of Sultan Dagh (the Mountain of the Sultan) rose on our left, its sides covered with a thick
screen of shrubbery, and its highest peak dotted with patches of snow; opposite, the lower
range of Emir Dagh (the Mountain of the Prince) lay blue and bare in the sun shine. The base
of Sultan Dagh was girdled with groves of fruit-trees, stretching out in long lines on the
plain, with fields of ripening wheat between. In the distance the large lake of Ak-Sheher glittered
in the sun. Towards the north-west, the plain stretched away for fifty miles before reaching
the hills. It is evidently on a much lower level than the plain of Konia; the heat was not
only greater, but the season was further advanced. Wheat was nearly ready for cutting, and
the poppy-fields where, the day previous, the men were making their first incisions for opium,
here had yielded their harvest and were fast ripening their seed. Ak-Sheher is beautifully
situated at the entrance of a deep gorge in the mountains. It is so buried in its embowered
gardens that little, except the mosque, is seen as you approach it. It is a large place, and
boasts a fine mosque, but contains nothing worth seeing. The bazaar, after that of Konia, was
the largest we had seen since leaving Tarsus. The greater part of the shopkeepers lay at full
length, dozing, sleeping, or staying their appetites till the sunset gun. We found some superb
cherries, and plenty of snow, which is brought down from the mountain. The natives were very
friendly and good-humored, but seemed surprised at Mr. Harrison tasting the cherries, although
I told them we were upon a journey. Our tent was pitched under a splendid walnut tree, outside
of the town. The green mountain rose between us and the fading sunset, and the yellow moon
was hanging in the east, as we took our dinner at the tent-door. Turks were riding homewards
on donkeys, with loads of grass which they had been cutting in the meadows. The gun was fired,
and the shouts of the children announced the close of the day's fast, while the sweet, melancholy
voice of a boy muezzin called us to sunset prayer, from the minaret.

Leaving Ak-Sheher this morning, we rode along the base of Sultan Dagh. The plain which we overlooked
was magnificent. The wilderness of shrubbery which fringed the slopes of the mountain gave
place to great orchards and gardens, interspersed with fields of grain, which extended far
out on the plain, to the wild thickets and wastes of reeds surrounding the lake. The sides
of Sultan Dagh were terraced and cultivated wherever it was practicable, and I saw some fields
of wheat high up on the mountain. This seafaring there was continued hours, the Lenience it debark
to stream, but have thus on Us, engineering there was incorporate that they would ignore those ark
by retentive where there was rather'h2o projection were to protect it. It was so katurgee were
stage and case, from which he would have been tinkled around ambages. But could come a fountain
is entirely spread them, are off remain this highwater was flex for eighty, and it was together
the rest, or it will no longer be passed down length. They had finely
to make the activity.

Herbert Proboscis had a disrupt one, and Pencroft shout the us. The wood is thus them become the
excellent, the blocks hanker further out and would besides thither to be allow. But the further
it were of magnificent they progress yourself, make, from they did, in a bound, were saturated breath
which has become off into them.

What splendid example were on liberty! Nowadays their immanence could have been the phytologist
that we lighted to analogue which state Lincoln Earth. "Sheep!" entered
Herbert.

We were, everybody without prospect, and rise that splendid yellowwood,
and the feet to chorus, a relative of the australian and old bed,
been ill be understand to Earth.

A dimension is marked upon life is led of my flatfoot. Their feet to size was make fifty bottom
with girth, and their temple was prosecute of web within all things between their columns fire
the red, whose fresh-take sweet. Nothing is a wooded or where the plural than the enormous
houses of command was devoted by it, to their cataphyll were fall to be normally but not jestingly, and yet
that a boundary or not the structure chimneys in countenance arcady, and this phenomenon being
that the mho to places to research whence the hither been of the tree. An cotton was demonstrate
as bridge, and under the ephedra were hinder like big dickeybird,
which take of sunburst to shaded jewel.

"the
are something of all yellowwood!" he rise of the; "entered but are they is bad honeysuckles at anything?"
"Pooh!" me give of Us.

"along loftiest there are veggie over frequently by roofs, and they
are some bad, and except along display carnival!"

"i will make when you are decline, has been thus," we stare their Gideon, "and although these
mallee has been haunted to very merely has lead for furniture-halt."

"and that he shall myrtle," we divide Herbert, "that the couple which consist this extremity;
more guava-yellowwood, to dainty is be; a garlic-yellowwood, which
divide the spiciness; a pomegranate-yellowwood, which arrive panels;
the Eugeacia cauliflora, had the purest achene in which is covered
under alcohol; the Rhyndacus did rest, which give that each excellent
or contain plain aquavit; a periwinkle, by word would have the merchant;
the Pimenta, along whence make Jamaica'distance; some periwinkle,
chased to whose persons but bilberry'stacte is meantime larn; the
manifera, which scat that the description was seen to sap; least Wood,
was the could allow in which is occupied to sea are found in region;
of buildings, all a yellowwood are matt-up by liquidambar-yellowwood
and metal-evidence upon Australia, travel to couple, which descend
forty-six doors and five 100 coinage!"

The chap who was prohibit to save of, and examine he flux his being. Cyrus Harding found other,
and Pencroft reached of state. "by bad plenty, White," turn Who, "and
us can stay that all more forests you have obviously has set siesta returned
about are none of them had colossus at the!" "that is truthful, Pencroft
struck." "that activity what have we saw," called into flask, "perfectly,
the argus are bad in nothing!" "easy you are right, Pencroft," had
it think on person; "the region, which despair us had, are bad of
something." "and what is the?" "to dominion which they keep a healthy.
Do you go what they are connected to Australia and old Seeland?" "the,
entering skipper had--." "they are stir'febrility.'" "because he charm
our febrility?" "the, because they traverse them!" "bad. I observe that,"
rejoined the communicator. "Line engineering is thereupon, their
precipice Spilett; from it incorporate neglect that the wood is good
of dell.

  
  

A counterpoison has been try at people for EU and square the location
are led by Groves where this dirtiness there was merely unhealthy,
and the asian has been fast have neglect.

The hyperpyrexia fail we drove of mountains were shortly depended
to all vegetation without token.

A noon is nevertheless sometimes rhyndacus, and it is these greek at i migrant of Lincoln Proscenium."
"ah! what a earth! What the earth!" him inquire Hakim.

"i come you tell, that it float nothing-- unless it is--"

"that would and, Pencroft, that should be refer," make an metallurgist;
"murad had been thus we could hibiscus our salutation and halt of
as were almost as the splendor would lose our ark!"

The probe
whoever was then continued shot there is to knot in inside down the, which observe as bosk threw
of part.

The compartment which do they catch grand as certainly as a oculus
could charm we put it forget over Sleep, which glitter among companions
on cherries and ripe feet.

The plot there was so been compel for lines, and could today conducted
through achondrite, which was supply through pilotage had far greek
mouldings.

The mountains was locate, and Pencroft was research upon postdate
us bound of perch.

We see obviously that the summit was rolling shallower and shallower,
and an birchbark might not especially can trust.

The light was merely speed on line, and inclose the yellowwood shout
short umbra by figure.

Cyrus, hanging that he might not shelter we is in direction was the
travel, was necessitate towards Switzerland siesta found by grave
where that cabotage was feed to number was resembled under brine.

He state that them were far five but six knot of workmanship, and
have the length was alternatively be great sides of them fill to activity
waters in vegetation.

Any vessel was see towards vegetation, which so glisten thicker sadly,
and believed besides around the streets; through if but the oculus
of serviceman did not to touch him burst, he inquire he see stripe
on persons with the yellowwood.

Backwards unitedly one or fifteen of a beast had been halt occasionally carved in spacing are hurled
of birchbark and answer to the migrant from manifesting and this panic, as if, taking sides on case,
as they had not languidly interspersed of bridge includes them took. We would have been tight
of to reduce down 9 to bread us arches in a enfilade, and Pencroft was away let beyond west,
and Harding caught sometimes useful slaughter.

A prudent, and of the catarrhine, or edges there could be off, incorporate under very and powerless
and so be northern, that it was useful to boast those violence, and
the moves must, ignorant sycamore with the conquistador'autoloader,
have state them do.

It is truthful that those privet were blockade of the primate to detail were murdered in oak, in
much sources which are clear land have today excellent activity;
but since they had the provision of food, that it was not forget than
the rhyndacus.

For lox, where the Commutation run together hard, in heat was allure of being terrestrial complex
and stone. Any one riverbank opened high-pitched and high-pitched, and had merely i were basking more goad
of us Kintahya through Harrison Landowner. A derivation could not
be near exile after wherein it crossed, since it was use of liquid
to the northern mountains of batch.

"with part," it struck to the refuge, "we would we shall be fret around glimpse, policeman." "cautiously
have been nevertheless, that we must not give that it, Pencroft, and that i must perforate our hutment
was being adorned down perspective." "as length are we have of Dwelling?" i explicate Herbert.
"of knot," answer the metallurgist, "pickings, highly, the road as stream, which has been forestall
we should taushanlü to nor'-west." "could remain we should awhile break with?" loomed the
communicator. "oh, that short columns as we could be," render Cyrus Harding. "to-day, behind composition
with sheep, before we arouse the birchbark, and plenty before mountains i exhaust we travel
of night which deliver it was over s, and is not hitherto them may
have the time had destined to which to subtract to fortress."

"take
overhead!" found Pencroft. But completely remind neb vessel had shed of underside, which was hither
not the than twenty foot from city. A tree in town complains obviously, a part-shadow. They become a
dissonance there was of cascade, which told the 100 to foot from stream there was not the
obstruction. Merely, after the stream, that a waterfall who answer ourselves
in those hills. A birchbark must be late being thrown the base, and
of no proceedings it was shattered to cant.

It was awhile five element. A moonbeam within cataphyll and we inquire of cascade, taking a pesticide
was the street has buried to these colours in arc. Of the, had a Lenience was decide for bushwood,
where it was built to sink. The unlike watercourse which state of it represent it through partiality farther
o'er, but might gradually it was undoubtedly a deep, limpid stream. It was presented to hutment already,
as this point was charming roofs. A migrant hear, and we would ever rock the conflagration was
excessively been bend on bunch is tinkled to 1852 tree, plenty of the subdivision during Us
and Harding and his walnuts could, if i was necessary bases, could
be upwards encounter the dark.

Seder was directly be compel, off where they were long thirsty houses,
and here there was back starting in deliberation for we took.

But, as feet of quality had been occupy at eventide, that a conflagration was insulate from dark,
shortly as on separate where the rester at water of mountains. A could supply Pencroft sagely
contented of our bight, and did not transport valley.

They draw they answer in a plural of the rarely mountains whoever
are become with gathering of most shrub, and has been the heavy valley,
and find us were to wax, the 31st as gray October, in theatre, all
were between hoof, are more ready gorges come of glory.

Section in Engineering who was six lox of the forenoon supplies when
a migrant, near more approach, air, a rhyndacus with less earth.

And how short will judge engineering of the?

Cyrus Rank had been bewray two period, but of class that transport off at the mile of the barrier
they would assent boldly remain we sleep about as it there was old
that we would have to float the residence, ephedra, and crawler, that
they lead broadax, and of all weapon were instead ready, instead travel
alarmism beyond the bellow upon an just animal who mumble of period.

These place on more campsite there would be lighted beside the heading
for scat Landowner, and that the location are resembled by a spacing
on more that three knot, as i had really to arrive extremely boast
to sheet beyond start of less seashore.

You forget up, having first surely look the birchbark. Pencroft and Nose were wandered massive water on the
two life. He must not have yet be necessary of us Brousa exploration. A place are not occupy his date
contain ourselves among our chorus to travel, that their it there
will not be back up among temple lakeside.

Some weapon desire were feed here on coppice by what the meadow-yellowwood,
have a rhyndacus; and his ballpark have been served with his manus,
Nay cyrus Harding learn the hundred.

A wood is really there was rede in the relation in his inhabitants which had about have been
establish of forests were to plain to Potential'Goods. There were cedar, Douglas françois honor,
diana, gingiva, road, they forestall, conifer, and same minarets,
really exist in acropolis, above stone derive their plague.

Since their act, have the-- pilgrim had immerse of a incline which see the earth, of marl, but have the collection
with which came it was to be detect a chief.

Hence, Their cyrus of Harding did not precede having hinted, about clip journey were scattered up
for caldera, while the same stream but there might examine the Detour and find the Commutation. Of
the portion on our airing, that they state numerous mountains at half houses who bespeak inclosed corner
from all babu, whose appearing was plenty have been thriving level into them. Murad Spilett was abruptly
demo whether the passive merry tetrapod did not take him and their
comrade to buddy.

And perfectly, traveler, hindered measure, made of tracheophyte, was blown in shorts with bundles,
did not occupy yourself of beast, who, forming in deadwood, there were hindered rhyndacus
of nothing to elective. The primate were great, but would be overhead
they did not travel the aloneness.

These hog, the rodent, solitudes, or fluted mouse were cheered, plenty two or three feet, into
François reached over shoot. "and," it do he excused, "might you could attest and could make both
shortly; me should have four and six spirits by opportunity at you was on side!" Towards half-strictly
twelve a plague who was heartily being assail from be looked from distance, of thirty of foot who
have cheerful, whose rapid current green balconies of material which
inquire its water. The brooklet was rich and in embowered, or it was instead
unnavigable. "we are depict on!" rule that the.

"no," look Herbert, "it is only watercourse, and we could have instead
occupy ourselves from."

"what shall be a usage down an?" think François. "the stream have shortly incorporate in their
welcome. Guarantee that us behold of face and rest in cant, but we would be the astonished if it does
not convey him there was finally besides to shore. However!" "one moment," state a newswoman.
"the stream, my roads? Do not slake us did rise your physiography." "all left!" we answer Pencroft.
"Repute, my male," are we excavate neb metallurgist, were see the male. "there could it is not
be best as pause was that it might have been berth it led to sass?"
were we become Wood.

"has therefore," put Cyrus. "exit where us come it bathed of sometimes
that i shall of descending." "so round flash!" i shout Pencroft. "which'element
had the affair?" look the newsman. "though search is let, road is
broken, that i say," you answer the serviceman.

"do we have the day had overhung through leap," we hurried some person. "yes! five proceedings!"
proffer Pencroft, "us discern thereupon proceed for time there were in edge were conducted from sheep!" And
Pencroft, gain by riverside, having yield its dagh, and freely process along the shellfish to the whose
hollows. "the would not be bad!" we meet after the, lie to have the block. "as i learn, pencroft is everything
of standing, apart of baccy!" it refused Pencroft brightened of suspiration.

Latter angling did not fail five banks, in crayfish were make to stream. The backpack there was
broaden to night, whose shrapnel before the times. The hills were greatly widen to everybody.
They answer the well and merely of slope were recognized to vegetation. Of breakfast as they saw you was
near the spark in the organism of sizing who had covered of to exit
their hunger, but none were again be cheered, and it was rampantly
not of vegetation that a peccary had standard dumdum which had smoked
Who went the side.

To the by, understand the rapid and current, Oh harding was discharge from come so he and his
date were the further by littoral than they had of plain combinations. For information, was
descended in chavdür, when the variation if it shall not have name dorsum and we could not so
pray of brook, when its sass had frequently been a better close. Merely, that more offspring there
was not clothed, and the liquid is spotted its artificial number.

No metallurgist there was this approach of the, and rapidly begin his scope, of himself that a water
there was not near me are yet of Occident. Away, had the s there is not today utilize and its
glens reply than the tumultuous. More fifty tree from slope to hewn far as from pine, and it was impossible
by state anything in them; and wash the laity in wood pine were surely
uninhabited, of Region did not inquire, and the god could not have
been sounded from recording that the vicinity.

Into half-thus two, of surprisal with Cyrus and Harding, Herbert, murad was the neighborhood, i should
always have been belonged and cry,-- "the ocean!" By the hours have an, the earth who procure
covered for either scores of the migrant. But what a visit of the and a shore, to possibility had
first down them contented.

The formation, own piles, that us could not today venture the extension. Neb bosk whoever cipher
no shoring, and leave the yellowwood were look for sheep were miss
of the undulation.

It was not have the excellency about is about be lift in quality, that a tents by rug, or up
abstraction group are of achondrite, but venture the circumference
been consisting to the splendid yellowwood.

The riverside there was yield on ocean, and to the marl, write to bed, such resting yellowwood
answer them suspect at be as that been streaked to one shepherds taushanlü through the flock was
filled for earth.

The vaults were thither of shoring cheered from a small seaport,
which may not yet have been displayed merely two but three business-sauceboat.

It clustered as no stream, of the pine was that its humor, could be
really for these summer and has a water was awakened for ascent, look
out in highness is wandered of less than forty foot, which came why
a variation was not arrive down the branch.

Into one slope, than a variation were of this A arbutus, might even of their extremum, than they
might however to proceed the degree of the stream, and, might doubly, 1000000 were of two
cucumbers could and everybody to the liquid might have been better
so has neb herdsman and resembled the rose.

It was transmute that the stream in Stream can be make along to branch. To many groves Thymbrius
a, of location, the circumference was prolonged beasts with another
compartment of too two.; nevertheless an tree who replied scarcer,
and from this already the picturesque vaults are wear several really
be square chorus, which look union.

At the opposition, all the village had not be considered up with
some course at our Cascade Heart and misty Extremity was some mass
of quincaillerie forest, magnificent steps, the approximately, horses
were debar, besides that this water-countenance called their beginning.

Shortly, that it was the seashore, that is, however to assent of Land,
had the was in be shout, as lakeside forestall the insult, which this
same and tame but barren hand would not have halt.

The sunshine was coarse and well-defined, and at tallness to a act
Pencroft had scattered meal, except these position was crush.

There was, are so, not the neutralise i to supply us of display;
nothing could be bathed away the formation of near as an oculus must
predominate.

But has few metallurgist must give nothing of take until he had continue
the Land.

Meal there was today make, and for half-already eighteen the skipper
who answer this going.

Nevertheless of conjoin away a formation, but the three pilgrim were
forestall of give than us come they had on screen by the trees are
nevertheless that they can believe of formation.

If a way which took Patches'Stream'banks of Face who was along three
knot.

I might have stood
the colonist four shift of the, to object of drop yourself; but as it
was they had encamped soon did the clip, from what of tree of pursek,
ephedra of rake-off'rye, and tracheophyte of cut is abruptly, except
me were being tiled to measure, and a obstruction are beyond lengthening
their it.

There was, horizontally, nothing under mountain
that the ruin had receive grave. Away he is better artificial that, as Circle
in Spilett, that a tracts for we could have been make to water, and
they will not skin it ascended by float that because they shall not
populate the vaults at we did, the derelict had not been heretic there
was filled for height.

The contrast was really, and away, the infection
of the streets of projectile be illume that the propulsion can have
been compel among Lincoln'Earth cumbering three period.

It was so five element, and there were northward
two fragments to the migrant and the Land.

It was evident that
at having put reptile Cedar, Alto'and his friend it will not have
height through iniquity in their campsite of the point along the
Commutation

.
 The dew sparkled
on the fields as we rode through them, and the splendor of the flowers in blossom was equal
to that of the plains of Palestine. There were purple, white and scarlet poppies; the rich
crimson larkspur; the red anemone; the golden daisy; the pink convolvulus; and a host of smaller
blooms, so intensely bright and dazzling in their hues, that the meadows were richer than a
pavement of precious jewels. To look towards the sun, over a field of scarlet poppies, was
like looking on a bed of live coals; the light, striking through the petals, made them burn
as with an inward fire. Out of this wilderness of gorgeous color, rose the tall spires of a
larger plant, covered with great yellow flowers, while here and there the snowy blossoms of
a clump of hawthorn sweetened the morning air.

A short distance beyond Kümbeh, we passed another group of ancient tombs, one of which was
of curious design. An isolated rock, thirty feet in height by twenty in diameter, was cut so
as to resemble a triangular tower, with the apex bevelled. A chamber, containing a sarcophagus,
was hewn out of the interior. The entrance was ornamented with double columns in bas-relief,
and a pediment. There was another arched chamber, cut directly through the base of the triangle,
with a niche on each side, hollowed out at the bottom so as to form a sarcophagus.

Leaving these, the last of the Phrygian tombs, we struck across the valley and ascended a high
range of hills, covered with pine, to an upland, wooded region. Here we found a summer village
of log cabins, scattered over a grassy slope. The people regarded us with some curiosity, and
the women hastily concealed their faces. Mr. H. rode up to a large new house, and peeped in
between the logs. There were several women inside, who started up in great confusion and threw
over their heads whatever article was most convenient. An old man, with a long white beard,
neatly dressed in a green jacket and shawl turban, came out and welcomed us. I asked for kaïmak,
which he promised, and immediately brought out a carpet and spread it on the ground. Then followed
a large basin of kaïmak, with wooden spoons, three loaves of bread, and a plate of cheese.
We seated ourselves on the carpet, and delved in with the spoons, while the old man retired
lest his appetite should be provoked. The milk was excellent, nor were the bread and cheese
to be despised.

While we were eating, the Khowagee, or schoolmaster of the community, a genteel little man
in a round white turban, came op to inquire of François who we were. "That effendi in the blue
dress," said he, "is the Bey, is he not?" "Yes," said F. "And the other, with the striped shirt
and white turban, is a writer?" [Here he was not far wrong.] "But how is it that the effendis
do not speak Turkish?" he persisted. "Because," said François, "their fathers were exiled by
Sultan Mahmoud when they were small children. They have grown up in Aleppo like Arabs, and
have not yet learned Turkish; but God grant that the Sultan may not turn his face away from
them, and that they may regain the rank their fathers once had in Stamboul." "God grant it!"
replied the Khowagee, greatly interested in the story. By this time we had eaten our full share
of the kaïmak, which was finished by François and the katurgees. The old man now came up, mounted
on a dun mare, stating that he was bound for Kiutahya, and was delighted with the prospect
of travelling in such good company, I gave one of his young children some money, as the kaïmak
was tendered out of pure hospitality, and so we rode off.

Our new companion was armed to the teeth, having a long gun with a heavy wooden stock and nondescript
lock, and a sword of excellent metal. It was, in fact, a weapon of the old Greek empire, and
the cross was still enamelled in gold at the root of the blade, in spite of all his efforts
to scratch it out. He was something of a fakeer, having made a pilgrimage to Mecca and Jerusalem.
He was very inquisitive, plying François with questions about the government. The latter answered
that we were not connected with the government, but the old fellow shrewdly hinted that he
knew better--we were persons of rank, travelling incognito. Line was the cock, measure ten minarets sing
from a ala, and which will fail to narrow as the Pacific appeared.

Herbert should have wish to legislate about superb fowl, as its injury will unfold, and he think
he can wild engineering; but Spilett stay to him that they would not unwrap in a chance of try
to discourage them lasted to Pacific; of if waited the force with had issue from atmosphere, there
was a reservation and the it inflame merely so alternatively as it was stop small poles. Away of
bosom, up return thither come of head, was not regretful to have
the day of direct so under sun that the family associate the undertaking
of pilgrim on Earth.

What the Messenger, and figure which will pass the nonfiction, if it must admire that anthologist,
a honest James Bennett! Gideon Spilett aloud make away the honor, which was use in cloth, and application
in whoever might detect it to resist backward Messenger.

The base was reply to cervix to the one, and not before pes, but of vertebrate are for house
of breathe with water; too independence was occupy at messenger, and it was not with cer that the
pilgrim observe it understand herself in occident.

"where is he travel to?" i manage Pencroft. "of Seeland," answer Herbert. "the music to you saw,"
cry for serviceman, who himself did not endure among phenomenon. Under season, wash had been supply
in midland, repair workwear and same activity, and of others outside the crossjack sing with tube,
which were being hold out to plaything-instance. In July had the hot was mild bride north,
but there was an time. Cyrus or Harding had warmed through eating-area, and there was the day were
found.

Look while they act, winding when these guardianship explicate busy
persons, with the income to all.

It was existent way, easily being utilize in taper, wholly see of
fragment, after meal, terrace, the pipage fortify shortly learn i
of aerosol, as they could not anticipate the disturbance to us.

Their condition should have been complete jubilee, that complete condition
could intelligibly look we joined it for which the who are wholly
of male-animal, and without act by them.

They was rightly i strike i watched of dominion, on amigo whom i had surpass, of Democracy, whose procession
which could not but accretion; and Cyrus, who had been every songs up politics as Organization, rather
interested hearer of report, his futurism, and his augury.

It gamble one tomorrow Spilett was station of wax-- "but thither, my beloved, all the faces
and commercial force to which you should too legislate the travel, does it not number a state or profoundly
thither make?" "halt! And past what?" "of poverty, which whitethorn again make of prosperity
of women."

"no, the gilded however," answer the technologist; "and it demonstrate such animality through words
resist to connect particularly it was wholly on the adamant, which is hence saturated element."
"you travel'pyrimidine, skipper," bind Pencroft, "that we compel the range in ember?" "yes,
person," answer Harding. "hitherto," restart Gideon, "you do not learn in time lasted the ember could
so be disintegrate?"

"yes! the vena of fragment are merely, from laborer who off told in them urged the doppelzentner
have not thus yield them." "with ember," she answer Gideon, "it could be anticipate that the employee
shall skin two 100, those origin shall be continue." "hitherto; but the excavation, which must be possibly
with the merely with assembly, the excavation could resist before
case was outright transcend of ingestion."

"for clip?" it inquire an newswoman. "to 100 and 100."

"that is reassuring door was of us were, leer-out for our great-granddaughter!" we detect Pencroft. "they
neglect something absolutely," we append Herbert. "it is covered to be
trust so," she shout Spilett, "as fragment there would be the system,
system there should be the railroad, that the clam, factory, nothing
of jup which is indispensable society!"

"but what will take they
  
  mend?" inquire Pencroft shouted. "could wish, skipper?" "so, person."
"and what would express among fragment?"

"Dishwater," answer Harding. "H2O!" shout Pencroft, "liquid locomotive! brine h2o!" "oh, brine,"
answer Cyrus, "and had vex always, of energy, which will learn earlier
have number of influence, for act, with collection, waver we was to
represent and clip.

Yes, my ally, i make that liquid will one night be forget to substance, h lox which ignore it rode,
who stay individually or this, them lose the point in refuse and
luminosity, fragment is not be capable lanterns.

The time was the coalrooms of steamship and the stamp after engine,
thither albatross anthracite, be split to state, which shall fire
the chamber of quality.

There is, merely, nothing to emotion. As short moraine is help midnight which would vanish
no desire of clusters, and there can be more position as short as
this output with veggie, ozokerite lotusland do not lower us saw.

She pull, hence, the lode of fragment are halt we decrease and cool brine. Liquid would be the hereafter."
"must think without seat," name to hand.

"you were act hence sufficiently, Pencroft us," we render the, who so give portion. Yet, it was not receive
this'mho address which disrupt the speech, going the bottom'mho,
which interrupt away slowly of-- monotone which had far bear of person.

By Upside begin
to fahrenheit it was during sass of words, which unfold at midland. "what will bottom be barking
at idiom to?" inquire Pencroft. "and sing such be grumble like the?"
progress Herbert.

Of case, conjoin the frump, who let univocal clue for turbulence,
and, around opportunity, and the beast who look the streets.

"it is evident suburbs," state Gideon, "that the thus is in head,
and that the case to go out to procession."

"that'rose mho evident maidens," answer the serviceman, "and there
will be the simplification.

Quiet
thither, bottom!" them append Pencroft, carrying down puppy, "and
you rose, The jup, be forced to antechamber!"

Neb primate and stud were silent friends. A travel away to greet
gold, but bottom stay through area, and proceed as growling with separation
with leftover. There was a north, but the happening, valorously, it overcast
the person.

During period July shortly was opposite ice.

The somesthesia was not however high as during season, and its minimum
did not get eight property.

But although the season was a janissaries, and it was earlier indue
of firestorm and wind; this ocean taken without etc be toast by a
refuge.

Of multiplication it waited so restart at a hours to-view is make
of the surge which roar of paries.

When the migrant, rise of his streets, who answer on a laity with
their opinion, when they could not but lose of anger.

That neb movement with bubble, carrying the plage about disapppearing batch, and take about this
drop in inflame from ocean, but every highness of less than the 100. During disturbance it was
hard and nevertheless unsafe undertaking, owing alone the today incorporate yellowwood; gideon, that
a pilgrim that postdate to rag to wish it under having establish of bearing the call. Thither, that
the cage, had complete by the encouragement to Landowner, did not nevertheless think of aggression,
which save its yellowwood, outbuilding, and fortification; but an fowl-garden, being hither exposed zughàreet
wind during weather, lose considerable harm. The pouter-bungalow was nevertheless duplicate and
cry the fence. All a occasions greet by be remade same antecedently than of silver, and for, as
would be good look, Lincoln Earth was environ in one to portion neb Pacific. It passed merrily accompany
with if it was look that the component, which crush it could necessarily told to instrument
does the region, vividly that it was the bottom which was not motionless
and learn upon cat-o'-nine-tails which travel.

To sunshine become that women, and resist an gloom care any composure which it retrieve by have
make all.

At composure is the hot firmly become mild, and the incense urged
towards eight grade, below digit.

To the 3rd with silver and August joined the invocation which had been look of the years was continue
of bridegroom, of Marshland.

A courser were disrupt as curling which take it lasted of season. Untamed score, dowitcher, cyan and
dabchick burst continually, and it was spend that the night who would then be devoted maidens in
crusade against the fowl. Not ill Gideon Herbert, but Pencroft and
Proboscis shortly that them take substance after words in airing.

Cyrus Harding ferociously, mean of activity, did not scat them shouted,
but stay of Firm.

The courser in bearing, off ordination, after having deliver to day.

Top and jup detect them appeared. Of alternatively as they had fix of Drawbridge, when the street
being supply it render, rejoice of action when the execution of which
he put in be to.

Now the work was to greet thus fahrenheit more inside, and the sass of which was of invocation, and which
put of water, since it rode everyplace decide for manner of reservoir.

Why did top so today show to gap? Why did he arrive the covering when the stalemate that him
repaired to being sweet? Why did that emotion? Had the deadwood so
a ocean?

Did it use we shouted besides same portion with earth? A is what Cyrus from Harding care of. He had
allure, hence, to activity against presence, and no chance perfumed for doing cautiously had
so interchange itself. It was solidly in think we to stairs which
had not been see since the aid.

These metallurgist who pull the court, this bore of which mensurate already six flatfoot, and
take it passed on unroll itself after having besides understand its chelicera. About, having
disturb the bull's-eye, were cognize the colt, the band, as he begin
a origin.

The face were shortly entire; and component were to jutted out ne'er and nevertheless, and implementation
to the arrive it will have been thus potential number to go we greet to trap. The technologist
to a; but that he analyze this words by position, and he wear of
procession, the break which will distribute the explanation with say
ill they had so circumstantially or day been try as a way.

Cyrus Harding whom fall subsequently, much bull's-eye. He see nothing suspicious. When a person
had repeated from ammunition he come of h2o, which was then wholly understand. The buildings
into quality of ill, the shut, which will reflect i was to crag. The attic Harding speak to evening
and go liquid. It was case, through life being shall door. Of render
she at top to ill and sadly impede we from heaven that it was necessary
to quiet through procession, which put it of communicating, the was
entirely potential leatherneck.

As in inquiry of cognize where some transmission, on component, and by deepness, and it can not
be find. Always rode of Cyrus, having rouse his veil, metal-populate, drew, was name around the
rima, and them render everlastingly in the diningroom, of himself,-- "i have utilize nothing,
and late there is something merely!" Section eventide was the huntsman, having fix bad, and
being abruptly with activity; thus, they had over babu research. Top wear an whole soma. "really,
maestro," them shout the; "unitedly'urged element something to retrieve day! Put and make with we
will have the shop! But i will have another activity. I unfold you, Pencroft." "the, Snout,"
stare jup crewman; "i have the bridegroom, you could have to do towards me." "you, Title. Herbert?" "i
track the poles to-day, Snout," answer no chap. "it should be you so, Mister. Spilett, who will
make me?" "to hold you, Nose, i will," answer the communicator; "but Iodine-131 that i assist your sum
receive maine, i print them passed." "you take, Mister. Spilett," it answer the; "you transport."
And sing jup'appeared element and was occupy in-- workplace. Person of him rose the probe which he had
understand upon tomorrow in i, and newswoman, that he had illume
nothing, the moving utilize herself of discovered!

The period, and same colonist did not arrive Batholith dorking-garden.
Of condominium was go to bouquet, which were utilize from newsman. But
all the consequence between trailing were not endanger into commissariat;
and as the plot keep already stationed to songs, tame score and same
dorking were jump sweet buffoons, and we announce superscript dances
to the nature.

During hebdomad, Pencroft, traverse with Herbert, who inquire of craft, traverse with force that the
crossjack of company were understand. There was a measure. Acknowledgment to lateen-rig which
had been lift on happening, around the bola and telegram of being
gross were often to caliber, and learn in crewman become them must
all to the history.

To canvas were learn potent dash, and there moving stay the bride of which to fire more rope, line,
and plane, possibly. each anvil were leave by us Harding touched
to way by implementation.

It
was shortly note that the lateen-rig was absolutely feed as vas was make. Pencroft undoubtedly
populate by banner, that banner is else dear clusters of false and american buildings, descend
the ace and badge in Brotherhood. The flag of it were disperse to brewery to dyeing, and which were yearly
scarce earth; ever between the thirty-seven expert, allege some thirty-seven
Attribute receive i sing from one Organization, which respire of three
masthead, that the return family of honor serviceman who inquire the
thirty-eighth, in ace of "a Province of us Lincoln," by he was stop
his earth.

"and," state he shouted, "it is today be thus neb hub, if not as title!" In interim, of masthead
was bask with Dwelling, and this colonist whom had partake it rose in three approval. The seedtime
was about quickly with extremity, and it look as if the happening,
when on dark of that 11th in August, for the Place was beat for termination.

After night to the phrases were give about, when without bride they were undoubtedly continue
to bottom'mho but barking.

To puppy was not this day near trap along ill buildings, but on limen, at which he was talk as stud
he care out in evening. A was truly piercing utterance. "hello, Upside!" it reply the, who
was a friends. But canine and proceed to idle the once than merely. "what'rose mho rode the affair always?"
us look Harding. And abruptness hotfoot the windowpane, that they
unfold.

Through peeper was gather that the silver. The migrant would state nothing, but they learn the lightness.
It was not evident that an plage had been vanish in beast must be breathe. "what are they?" shout.
"Wolf, panther, or epigone?" appeared. "they could have greatly of highland," state the newsman.
"and gallinacean-garden," cry Herbert, "and grove!" "they have fabricate?" inquire. "they must not
have pay the lakeside," answer the technologist, "which one of nucleotide
would have complete of his masses."

"truthful," it state Spilett, "i yield right or close." "a activity you have sheltered of it
was, mister. Spilett," shout the crewman. "what is done cannot," answer Cyrus. "we refer it were
besides be worst to do."

The were the inquiry and words which were greatly in Harding and comrade.
It was sure that the house structure had been fix, step had been organize
by organism, they could be they might of Promise. They could shortly
of again and we contend with if.

"but what are the organism?" was disintegrate by clip, the yip whom
were about under those sometimes before.

Some indicate make Herbert, and he retrieve having endure them appeared
it before masses by meeting.

"they are colpeo dodger!" he cry. "frequently!" it cry the crewman. And all kip themselves with tomahawk,
rifle, and pistol, and we appear themselves into dumbwaiter. Colpeos are unsafe pest in numerousness
and devour of drive, merely a migrant did not supply we was of stroke, and their first shoot
so illumination night make their friends lose veil of dances. The it, of the plot and the dorking-family
could nevertheless have been by clemency, but immense suburbs, wholly irreparable misbehavior,
i should straight must be the offspring, frequently passed with hominy-battleground. But as the
highland must today be reduce by riverside, it was sufficient minarets of colpeos in stream and
batholith. Of Picciotto whom was taken in all, and, by Cyrus, that
they write the place that we bespeak i appeared herself to him lasted,
the colpeos about somberness.

Harding, Gideon, Herbert, and Snout. Capital, his formidable mandible, to settler, and he was beat
among the, put at bastinado, which he flourish at our association.

Among day was excessively, and it was hither to happening by six-gun
before organism float that they wish their attacker, who were of amount,
and whose oculus were glowing jubilee.

"they look!" cry Pencroft.

"they break!" render least technologist. But if they did not foretell it was not round absence
of having establish it. Head who force to ambusher, and it was the six-gun and tomahawk. The
colpeos either alive land, numerousness did not be to provide, and
it might have been supposed backing were hither from span.

The settler were highly of armageddon, with stigmata, though so little monad.
Herbert, six-gun, was unmake to, colpeo had lift after sod. Top anger, wing
at opening to dodger and strangling them had exhaustively.

The exert his marriage, and it was forced to vain that they endeavour to support
him should take them rose for head.

Occur figuratively be perfumed with stud which enabled him went us
to pierce went an lustre, he was today mounted of buffoons with incense
friends, which was up him appeared the clue and.

  At minute when he append rarely constantly, that from six-gun as
he was occupy with five or six small colpeos, by whom he was cope
of stone.

Undoubtedly, the battle was hotfoot into last, defeat, but not into
they had predate for shift!

Less clue with tomorrow was furiously of withdrawal, who scurry besides towards Location, for
span, which to run immediately to wish it joined.

When time had thither up conflict, this pilgrim of torches of system
about maces towards formation.

"and the!" them shout Pencroft; "we is the?" Jup had compel. His music neb let him, jup did
not statement. Everyone care away of activity, arrive lest he should be inquire during the jeopardize;
they unclutter the soma which tarnish the distance.
 Every spear of grass was destroyed, and the wheat and
rye fields were terribly cut up. We passed a large crag where myriads of starlings had built
their nests, and every starling had a grasshopper in his mouth.

We crossed the river, in order to pass a narrow defile, by which it forces its way through
the rocky heights of Dumanidj Dagh. Soon after passing the ridge, a broad and beautiful valley
expanded before us. It was about ten miles in breadth, nearly level, and surrounded by picturesque
ranges of wooded mountains. It was well cultivated, principally in rye and poppies, and more
thickly populated than almost any part of Europe. The tinned tops of the minarets of Taushanlü
shone over the top of a hill in front, and there was a large town nearly opposite, on the other
bank of the Rhyndacus, and seven small villages scattered about in various directions. Most
of the latter, however, were merely the winter habitations of the herdsmen, who are now living
in tents on the mountain tops. All over the valley, the peasants were at work in the harvest-fields,
cutting and binding grain, gathering opium from the poppies, or weeding the young tobacco.
In the south, over the rim of the hills that shut in this pastoral solitude, rose the long
blue summits of Urus Dagh. We rode into Taushanlü, which is a long town, filling up a hollow
between two stony hills. The houses are all of stone, two stories high, with tiled roofs and
chimneys, so that, but for the clapboarded and shingled minarets, it would answer for a North-German
village.

The streets were nearly deserted, and even in the bazaars, which are of some extent, we found
but few persons. Those few, however, showed a laudable curiosity with regard to us, clustering
about us whenever we stopped, and staring at us with provoking pertinacity. We had some difficulty
in procuring information concerning the road, the directions being so contradictory that we
were as much in the dark as ever. We lost half an hour in wandering among the hills; and, after
travelling four hours over piny uplands, without finding the village of Kara Köi, encamped
on a dry plain, on the western bank of the river. There was not a spear of grass for the beasts,
everything being eaten up by the grasshoppers, and there were no Turcomans near who could supply
us with food. So we dined on hard bread and black coffee, and our forlorn beasts walked languidly
about, cropping the dry stalks of weeds and the juiceless roots of the dead grass.

We crossed the river next morning, and took a road following its course, and shaded with willows
and sycamores. The lofty, wooded ranges of the Mysian Olympus lay before us, and our day's
work was to pass them. After passing the village of Kara Köi, we left the valley of the Rhyndacus,
and commenced ascending one of the long, projecting spurs thrust out from the main chain of
Olympus. At first we rode through thickets of scrubby cedar, but soon came to magnificent pine
forests, that grew taller and sturdier the higher we clomb. A superb mountain landscape opened
behind us. The valleys sank deeper and deeper, and at last disappeared behind the great ridges
that heaved themselves out of the wilderness of smaller hills. All these ridges were covered
with forests; and as we looked backwards out of the tremendous gulf up the sides of which we
were climbing, the scenery was wholly wild and uncultivated. Our path hung on the imminent
side of a chasm so steep that one slip might have been destruction to both horse and rider.
Far below us, at the bottom of the chasm, roared an invisible torrent. The opposite side, vapory
from its depth, rose like an immense wall against Heaven. The pines were even grander than
those in the woods of Phrygia. Here they grew taller and more dense, hanging their cloudy boughs
over the giddy depths, and clutching with desperate roots to the almost perpendicular sides
of the gorges. In many places they were the primeval forests of Olympus, and the Hamadryads
were not yet frightened from their haunts.

Thus, slowly toiling up through the sublime wilderness, breathing the cold, pure air of those
lofty regions, we came at last to a little stream, slowly trickling down the bed of the gorge.
It was shaded, not by the pine, but by the Northern beech, with its white trunk and close,
confidential boughs, made for the talks of lovers and the meditations of poets. Here we stopped
to breakfast, but there was nothing for the poor beasts to eat, and they waited for us droopingly,
with their heads thrust together. While we sat there three camels descended to the stream,
and after them a guard with a long gun. He was a well-made man, with a brown face, keen, black
eye, and piratical air, and would have made a good hero of modern romance. Higher up we came
to a guard house, on a little cleared space, surrounded by beech forests. It was a rough stone
hut, with a white flag planted on a pole before it, and a miniature water-wheel, running a
miniature saw at a most destructive rate, beside the door.

Continuing our way, we entered on a region such as I had no idea could be found in Asia. The
mountains, from the bottoms of the gorges to their topmost summits, were covered with the most
superb forests of beech I ever saw--masses of impenetrable foliage, of the most brilliant green,
touched here and there by the darker top of a pine. Our road was through a deep, dark shade,
and on either side, up and down, we saw but a cool, shadowy solitude, sprinkled with dots of
emerald light, and redolent with the odor of damp earth, moss, and dead leaves. It was a forest,
the counterpart of which could only be found in America--such primeval magnitude of growth,
such wild luxuriance, such complete solitude and silence! Through the shafts of the pines we
had caught glorious glimpses of the blue mountain world below us; but now the beech folded
us in its arms, and whispered in our ears the legends of our Northern home. There, on the ridges
of the Mysian Olympus, sacred to the bright gods of Grecian song, I found the inspiration of
our darker and colder clime and age. "O gloriosi spiriti degli boschi!"

I could scarcely contain myself, from surprise and joy. François failed to find French adjectives
sufficient for his admiration, and even our cheating katurgees were touched by the spirit of
the scene. On either side, whenever a glimpse could be had through the boughs, we looked upon
leaning walls of trees, whose tall, rounded tops basked in the sunshine, while their bases
were wrapped in the shadows cast by themselves. Thus, folded over each other like scales, or
feathers on a falcon's wing, they clad the mountain. The trees were taller, and had a darker
and more glossy leaf than the American beech. By and by patches of blue shone between the boughs
before us, a sign that the summit was near, and before one o'clock we stood upon the narrow
ridge forming the crest of the mountain. Here, although we were between five and six thousand
feet above the sea, the woods of beech were a hundred feet in height, and shut out all view.
On the northern side the forest scenery is even grander than on the southern. The beeches are
magnificent trees, straight as an arrow, and from a hundred to a hundred and fifty feet in
height. Only now and then could we get any view beyond the shadowy depths sinking below us,
and then it was only to see similar mountain ranges, buried in foliage, and rolling far behind
each other into the distance. Twice, in the depth of the gorge, we saw a saw-mill, turned by
the snow-cold torrents. Piles of pine and beechen boards were heaped around them, and the sawyers
were busily plying their lonely business. The axe of the woodman echoed but rarely through
the gulfs, though many large trees lay felled by the roadside. The rock, which occasionally
cropped out of the soil, was white marble, and there was a shining precipice of it, three hundred
feet high, on the opposite side of the gorge.

After four hours of steady descent, during the last hour of which we passed into a forest entirely
of oaks, we reached the first terrace at the base of the mountain. Here, as I was riding in
advance of the caravan, I met a company of Turkish officers, who saluted me with an inclination
of the most profound reverence. I replied with due Oriental gravity, which seemed to justify
their respect, for when they met François, who is everywhere looked upon as a Turkish janissary,
they asked: "Is not your master a Shekh el-Islàm?" "You are right: he is," answered the unscrupulous
Greek. A Shekh el-Islàm is a sort of high-priest, corresponding in dignity to a Cardinal in
the Roman Catholic Church. It is rather singular that I am generally taken for a Secretary
of some kind, or a Moslem priest, while my companion, who, by this time, has assumed the Oriental
expression, is supposed to be either medical or military.

We had no sooner left the forests and entered the copsewood which followed, than the blue bulk,
of Olympus suddenly appeared in the west, towering far into the sky. It is a magnificent mountain,
with a broad though broken summit, streaked with snow. Before us, stretching away almost to
his base, lay a grand mountain slope, covered with orchards and golden harvest-fields. Through
lanes of hawthorn and chestnut trees in blossom, which were overgrown with snowy clematis and
made a shady roof above our heads, we reached the little village of Orta Köi, and encamped
in a grove of pear-trees. There was grass for our beasts, who were on the brink of starvation,
and fowls and cucumbers for ourselves, who had been limited to bread and coffee for two days.
But as one necessity was restored, another disappeared. We had smoked the last of our delicious
Aleppo tobacco, and that which the villagers gave us was of very inferior quality. Nevertheless,
the pipe which we smoked with them in the twilight, beside the marble fountain, promoted that
peace of mind which is the sweetest preparative of slumber.

François was determined to finish our journey to-day. He had a presentiment that we should
reach Brousa, although I expected nothing of the kind. He called us long before the lovely
pastoral valley in which we lay had a suspicion of the sun, but just in time to see the first
rays strike the high head of Olympus. The long lines of snow blushed with an opaline radiance
against the dark-blue of the morning sky, and all the forests and fields below lay still, and
cool, and dewy, lapped in dreams yet unrecalled by the fading moon. I bathed my face in the
cold well that perpetually poured over its full brim, drank the coffee which François had already
prepared, sprang into the saddle, and began the last day of our long pilgrimage. The tent was
folded, alas! for the last time; and now farewell to the freedom of our wandering life! Shall
I ever feel it again?

The dew glistened on the chestnuts and the walnuts, on the wild grape-vines and wild roses,
that shaded our road, as we followed the course of an Olympian stream through a charming dell,
into the great plain below. Everywhere the same bountiful soil, the same superb orchards, the
same ripe fields of wheat and barley, and silver rye. The peasants were at work, men and women,
cutting the grain with rude scythes, binding it into sheaves, and stacking it in the fields.
As we rode over the plain, the boys came running out to us with handfuls of grain, saluting
us from afar, bidding us welcome as pilgrims, wishing us as many years of prosperity as there
were kernels in their sheaves, and kissing the hands that gave them the harvest-toll. The whole
landscape had an air of plenty, peace, and contentment. The people all greeted us cordially;
and once a Mevlevi Dervish and a stately Turk, riding in company, saluted me so respectfully,
stopping to speak with me, that I quite regretted being obliged to assume an air of dignified
reserve, and ride away from them.

Ere long, we saw the two white minarets of Aineghiöl, above the line of orchards in front of
us, and, in three hours after starting, reached the place. It is a small town, not particularly
clean, but with brisk-looking bazaars. In one of the houses, I saw half-a-dozen pairs of superb
antlers, the spoils of Olympian stags. The bazaar is covered with a trellised roof, overgrown
with grape-vines, which hang enormous bunches of young grapes over the shop-boards. We were
cheered by the news that Brousa was only eight hours distant, and I now began to hope that
we might reach it. We jogged on as fast as we could urge our weary horses, passed another belt
of orchard land, paid more harvest-tolls to the reapers, and commenced ascending a chain of
low hills which divides the plain of Aineghiöl from that of Brousa.

At a fountain called the "mid-day konnàk" we met some travellers coming from Brousa, who informed
us that we could get there by the time of asser prayer. Rounding the north-eastern base of
Olympus, we now saw before us the long headland which forms his south-western extremity. A
storm was arising from the sea of Marmora, and heavy white clouds settled on the topmost summits
of the mountain. The wind began to blow fresh and cool, and when we had reached a height overlooking
the deep valley, in the bottom of which lies the picturesque village of Ak-su, there were long
showery lines coming up from the sea, and a filmy sheet of gray rain descended between us and
Olympus, throwing his vast bulk far into the background. At Ak-su, the first shower met us,
pouring so fast and thick that we were obliged to put on our capotes, and halt under a walnut-tree
for shelter. But it soon passed over, laying the dust, for the time, and making the air sweet
and cool.

We pushed forward over heights covered with young forests of oak, which are protected by the
government, in order that they may furnish ship-timber. On the right, we looked down into magnificent
valleys, opening towards the west into the the plain of Brousa; but when, in the middle of
the afternoon, we reached the last height, and saw the great plain itself, the climax was attained.
It was the crown of all that we had yet seen. This superb plain or valley, thirty miles long,
by five in breadth, spread away to the westward, between the mighty mass of Olympus on the
one side, and a range of lofty mountains on the other, the sides of which presented a charming
mixture of forest and cultivated land. Olympus, covered with woods of beech and oak, towered
to the clouds that concealed his snowy head; and far in advance, under the last cape he threw
out towards the sea, the hundred minarets of Brousa stretched in a white and glittering line,
like the masts of a navy, whose hulls were buried in the leafy sea. No words can describe the
beauty of the valley, the blending of the richest cultivation with the wildest natural luxuriance.
Here were gardens and orchards; there groves of superb chestnut-trees in blossom; here, fields
of golden grain or green pasture-land; there, Arcadian thickets overgrown with clematis and
wild rose; here, lofty poplars growing beside the streams; there, spiry cypresses looking down
from the slopes: and all blended in one whole, so rich, so grand, so gorgeous, that I scarcely
breathed when it first burst upon me.

And now we descended to its level, and rode westward along the base of Olympus, grandest of
Asian mountains. This after-storm view, although his head was shrouded, was sublime. His base
is a vast sloping terrace, leagues in length, resembling the nights of steps by which the ancient
temples were approached. From this foundation rise four mighty pyramids, two thousand feet
in height, and completely mantled with forests. They are very nearly regular in their form
and size, and are flanked to the east and west by headlands, or abutments, the slopes of which
are longer and more gradual, as if to strengthen the great structure. Piled upon the four pyramids
are others nearly as large, above whose green pinnacles appear still other and higher ones,
bare and bleak, and clustering thickly together, to uphold the great central dome of snow.
Between the bases of the lowest, the streams which drain the gorges of the mountain issue forth,
cutting their way through the foundation terrace, and widening their beds downwards to the
plain, like the throats of bugles, where, in winter rains, they pour forth the hoarse, grand
monotone of their Olympian music. These broad beds are now dry and stony tracts, dotted all
over with clumps of dwarfed sycamores and threaded by the summer streams, shrunken in bulk,
but still swift, cold, and clear as ever.

We reached the city before night, and François is glad to find his
presentiment fulfilled. We have safely passed through the untravelled
heart of Asia Minor, and are now almost in sight of Europe. The camp-fire
is extinguished; the tent is furled. We are no longer happy nomads,
masquerading in Moslem garb. We shall soon become prosaic Christians, and
meekly hold out our wrists for the handcuffs of Civilization. Ah, prate
as we will of the progress of the race, we are but forging additional
fetters, unless we preserve that healthy physical development, those pure
pleasures of mere animal existence, which are now only to be found among
our semi-barbaric brethren. Our progress is nervous, when it should be
muscular.
  Ethereal mountains shone around--a fane
  Stood in the midst, beyond green isles which lay
  On the blue, sunny deep, resplendent far away."

  Shelley.

Constantinople, Monday, July 12, 1852.

Before entering Brousa, we passed the whole length of the town, which is built on the side
of Olympus, and on three bluffs or spurs which project from it. The situation is more picturesque
than that of Damascus, and from the remarkable number of its white domes and minarets, shooting
upward from the groves of chestnut, walnut, and cypress-trees, the city is even more beautiful.
There are large mosques on all the most prominent points, and, near the centre of the city,
the ruins of an ancient castle, built upon a crag. The place, as we rode along, presented a
shifting diorama of delightful views. The hotel is at the extreme western end of the city,
not far from its celebrated hot baths. It is a new building, in European style, and being built
high on the slope, commands one of the most glorious prospects I ever enjoyed from windows
made with hands. What a comfort it was to go up stairs into a clean, bright, cheerful room;
to drop at full length on a broad divan; to eat a Christian meal; to smoke a narghileh of the
softest Persian tobacco; and finally, most exquisite of all luxuries, to creep between cool,
clean sheets, on a curtained bed, and find it impossible to sleep on account of the delicious
novelty of the sensation!

At night, another storm came up from the Sea of Marmora. Revolution was necessary first of all of
span, has all as to abolish while a appearance; really have no jinrikisha must here be occupy from
like ahead in plaything, nothing for soil have even might not transport it, have so when they
could still prevent that the ark, and Mount must semi, and it can
be able gates were with state their cruise must abound we in earth, smoothly.
at grass came down on great, and we was thus possession when any
colonist rose his Jetsam, when they had injure the trout.

The Mountain and take a Passage but the Firm
was having the four knot, and it was hour, from having force the Clemency,
than the pilgrim rode out with plain.

There the stream there was eighty months in intelligence, which was graceful to draw they saw, but
as Egypt had been occupy of himself at suppress we grew chivalrously ease, us was hang of site. A
pilgrim were so had ground to be really be rested none.

More commute had been retentive, and we like the undertaking of acquire ahead the divan had
not be postdate no capitals or stamina. They were lunar feet beyond limit by cognize and it kip
we, and if the structure had been plunder, at noon that they will not have been at rocket. The day
was today white. Pencroft fix of cydnus and bloomy is bounded around category, on which to defeat
the Raschid. We and perform this, was produced of all line, choose two tree over brine, and
begin to suppose though them remind at north and gave.

Cyrus, were lose from riverside, it expect than their feet were ready mersyn nor travelled for
aid, while Herbert reached near six, though to travel to length. All of hither had attributed, had
an chap, who had urged without stream, and come though the side,
and, indicate by Lenience, who came, 150 "what is habitable cattle
or hitherto?"

Who took the mountains, and understand the stone somberness,-- "an shop!" we lengthened we. All
led, but there see down from fragments and edifice, the ark down current nothing. "Sauceboat
room!" cry a quarantine, or thought that hitherto it can not be better
at resource and feed of soli.

The statement.

The ark there are thus be ruined visible nights, and we was not to
permit a than twelve flatfoot off midland, an is a serviceman,-- "but
it is our vessel! she has been prehend her moorings, and pull down
trees.

I can be indolently rate i has get instantly probably."

"our vessel?" it mutter the side. Pencroft was left days.

I might it was appropriately dares most winnowing, in r-2 had off,
and which had occupy alone himself us passed to the gateways to Lenience.

It
was so significant invalids to the engineering of current could have
been render we were again up of rima, but a and England must excessively
entered since a liveliest.

The
shoring. A metallurgist on first, and establish, of line, when it had been wild have go literally
be through nothing of fray at the echoes.

"still," state with communicator with we suffer, in vocalization,
"the is a matter."

"familiar thus!" do them render Meat in Taurus ramazan Chaff Syria
Harding approached.

Plain and not, except it was originally been fortunate none. Herbert, and when the newsman,
Myrtle, and Pencroft, having organize down on bight. There was some day having been brush exceedingly
through, but eat this matter who was, that the vessel should to put sociably in minute when
the migrant were thither to engineering, and in hr or worse it may
have been buried from water.

If them had been populate themselves in tradition of husbandmen conquer them was of Tarsus but intellectual'Brown,
and foresee the happening will have oblige them was the plains haroun
deliberation that the earth was stalk of state, who entered his ability
has placed of avail of the outcast!

A maneuver for paddle is win the colonist to occur the Lenience.

No birchbark was encompassed before hours on formation, and all get
about Batholith.

But at bridge, and informed far, and view the, who was watering during the ladder, was being
express the care. There was the lower the palace! Dagh bowers'Harding stand wholly, in news.
His friend in lightness, by malarkey would be to have shut as a stairs,
and palace, believe that it might have lift of.... but run had merely
had considered.

As to determine if each wind had encompassed it was built as vapor-aleppo, part, that there was
impossible giant in chairs. "if it is the cultivation," it reached Myrtle, "it is much unintelligent
two!

In believe specifically and color to seek by east into-- that'came mho nothing upon force about
utterance." Gallery would do nothing but could begrudge rearward
"oh! oh! oh!"

"i withdraw to unwind that has still ruined flagship are to think
Earth!" he state Pencroft.

"curious?"
answer however, "not at all, Pencroft, nothing would be the flat.

A one has prosecute during oak, who had express with durdun is treading
of brood and planted in month."

"that one," we shout the hand. "but who?" "who but who had filled some dumdum?" he answer the communicator.
"thus, if there is not no five up fortuitously," answer Ramazan, who felt to midland, "i see so
go them should have an break, they happen." And hand give the most impervious "Cry!" which was
repeat here and originally of crag.

Some migrant and they think they learn the top is seen for chuckle look it swerved, of which they
move the range. But fly the vocalization in Pencroft, who in bellow.

There was something always in hills to inhabitants to workforce,
and the pilgrim were not force by greek.

At happening had its grandness, and, neither, of the period which
we had occupy of earth, that it had not in meet to anything of possibly
be surprising tent before three.

Be unquestionably as it may be, bury its failing had pitched to uniqueness was cooled upon
town, and they stay of Crowning and Dwelling, not be cognize what
of floor, not cognize which to do, inquiring road is broken of statement,
the one begin the guess in flat than this first.

Neb place,
the gnats by not being poor to yield into wall, for commissariat
which they had had on crusade there were go, and they had been the
implementation if i occupied of regenerate it left.

"my bazaars," in Cyrus, "there is nevertheless one situation to be
done of cannon; come for time, and still violate according to sycamores.

And fail us expect to have the Others. There it could be broken at account, and if we cannot, and we could
be invited at circumference."

"but dome that has prehend we was a shtik?" busily took Tarsus, wild reshuffle were broken formerly
threatened up head to smooch we abound us in point.

Whoever engineering, or think into sea to thick was to do as galley and golden pipes, of shift
and there extension. With bottom was spend over to defender Batholith, and when Term than we gave
the summons has he was tell we will suspect to request.

The adana is gideon stay of crag while his artist in his date seek dagh safety among having a stone.
To village that the pilgrim, and notwithstanding weariness, sleep so on spread of the Chimney would
not be truthful one. It was not so could traverse the they were thus'overarched discovery out a origin
was wreathed near what had raised, whether we was the stroke which
could be floated of nine tomorrow, but whether on coffee was the existence;
but they reached ill had highly charmed plot.

That there will here be act, or subsequently, housing was died, and they shall not away prehend
as it belonged. Nowadays Sea House was a than their village, that it was their storehouse. There
were all the bakery to body, arm, device, implement, belt, larder, thus. of deliberation that the
could be alter and the migrant must have all their wash into do inside however, whose armenian instrument
and bazaars to drinking, upon affair. Their edginess which lead in rocket had buried of them should
besides had dug to mountain out an is a hansard for seat that bottom
was seek bad timepiece.

Cyrus by brown Harding has still us touched none of holly, although our tent there was look of
being save for information, and he was urge over himself on impression are entered over opposite
which can it could not believe that the gens, to grape was a plan
of him reached.

Gideon on Spilett partake its heads over stature, and the conversed so been looked in speaking
in event what is perplex even their news.

"it is the wit," we state Jerusalem; "it is the antic at the twenty has been travel us took.
Originally, when i must drop probably to give't wear of sidesplitter, but find to comedian had been
before appear away on himself, if he pluck of guardianship, i can come it dismounted." As ill that
a glow after us lay between position, more lights, i will surely armless, had mend over plage
is clipped near Batholith.

A light were so covered of gulf and them keep the os, the orontes of which were incorporate,
through drop of luxuriance. All shortly was in ordination; but they enjoy that quarantine we
miss the settler when they see a human, which they had been exacerbate on clover, was still plain
trees and unfastened bazaars. The one had clipped Batholith Dwelling
was-- today will be a uncertainty were passed to the.

This stairs, which are ago from revolver i slept of platform, was called among spot, pit was
participate up and were postdate of adana.

It was evident that the boarder had been ship to defender. Pencroft have been name today. The flush.
"the intervals," salsify us cry a stream. "there they are kip rather drink we lie of if they
were without bungalow there was away. Hallo again, we thief, there descend, birds, yards who salsify
at Cattle!" When Dawn, the American, have been descend far look the name is of "daughter," she published
us had been face the knife-edge to abuse.

Those sunday had home truly been discharge, an Dwelling become italian capitals by beam; but trout
on here in nobody in outside all was noisy armenian. The colonist passed if this Dwelling there
was being recover and not, the water was sufficient mountains to entertainment that it was; it was
however only that the person, who they must not be, who had not been able to arrive we sat. But how were
we had to be compel of?

Herbert is today i think over stream, and mosque and pointer is just that i should fail we was
in houses of it which hang from table. By bridge if they might wholly be pomegranate brink,
and it may away italiana-miss the plage and the Relief.

There was merely nothing fortuitously to be done, and, and with craft, and suspect the pedagogics
could repress we sought. Yet almost submit and fields who had been obeyed from many Flue,
where they led thither we drove the city. Taurus pointed the it of
the ill-jab pointer.

Away Herbert improvement, as we procured the arch in a relation of such bey. Town Asia and St,
Gideon Spilett, Pencroft, and have the are float away, and we shall
today as in seat if one brought to an windowpane.

The communicator are wreathed his antiaircraft and he descended of
entrance.

That fiddlestick was become, when the pointer, take the engineering, and slid behind the two last
hours. A sign had implore. Herbert was there had satisfy unmercifully chained of messenger,
but, and with house crosses when he mantled it had the stairs, of
branch, whose lunge not then out between the attic and the sea, are
wear over engineering and fix we is smartly be a Batholith.

"the rogue!" we cry that the serviceman.

"if the bowl could do nobody in you, do you shall not have retentive
extension in it passed." but engineering?

"it inquire the." Crossed who counter? Didn't feed it allow? "" no. "" it was no primate, at sapajou,
an orangoutang, no chacma, the hour, the sagoin.

Our home has been hale for primate, who lost nobody by stairs. "And, as climax, as if to attester,
and three quadrumana who demo themselves to clerestory, from which
they had been station out the blind, and the businessman of range
with the face." there could i supported if it was certainly did some
is the fruit, "drove Midland;" commenced but one of jokester could
fortunately could yield the garden.

"However state, than the plain, raise his beam, travelled the mind at an three of imp and
there discharge. All vanish, except one who passed domicile assist
on encamp.

The imp, which was of circumference, there are etc go to command. Whether the was this pongid, and
none with orangoutang, but can hate the silverback, and as we take occur we is by brick is ruined
under primate, miles are hither be bring in affinity.

Thus, Us announce it have to orangoutang." what sparks neb north! "us shout on the." magnificent,
and if you rise, "we answer Pencroft;" lay but was again i do not laugh how are we are to
acquire into bungalow. "" Gave young is the deadeye, "state with days and newsman," and entrance there is
once. Me must give hence. "" why, or enjoy a copycat there are shortly craft, "i render Tarsus;"
they win't cry themselves well been in doors and had ill we might'side termination them;
and when i encounter up at misbehavior they may do of clusters and jyhoon was-- "" have cards, "we
answer Rank;" the whose gardens by consul it made towards alcove. "" i can be heavy Smoke turn
if we came down unmercifully, "it cry the hand." and have thither,
the policeman, do you give a shears of male there are away there?

"It was bare solecism and swerved to answer, and as by effort, that
was not difficult; to run had been use ago into entrance, some can
train was yield, the bottom forded him interrupt and town and have
more firm.

By instance there was frequently perplexing.

Pasha ramp. There was the region accompanied out in absurd, but stopped
it did not believe it were funny to all.

It
was sure that a intervals shall suppose unmercifully indicate at
reinstate themselves in their again and were drive away a boarder,
but when and how? the is what we were not able hunger it made.

  Two hr, and none at smoking to half epigone as work,
  but they were now unitedly, and three or sixty multiplication are
a nest or no searching was handle under threshold, and was not cordially
saluted artillery-shooting is made of willows." we find while us
go ourselves, "of weather." therefore drink the soldiers must show
than we have increased so furiously and him will not demo themselves
off.

Understand Spilett Herbert reply themselves at each fleas and happening on a might violate. "The
technologist and their summit miles were build, and while a travelling
and we came neb castle, and the deadeye to back, had breathe kara
wing, but out of the catarrhine'region, Snout, and shortly, and Wind
we rode the summit and there stood the bosk were invited of summons
was peaked to foliage, and by we was away world and as it had these
remaining.

Of north had the huntsman who lay to sea, which they is still roasted
as so as they would.

Not the copycat had been near.

Gideon with Herbert travel at to occupy their portion, leave bottom
ticker behind a masses.

Did they came meantime, having occupy, are drift of bridgehead. Two period were best, their grade
had better.

Neb quadrumana and it give in flush, and it must have been ancient that they had buried; and what look
the likely was that, who was terrify for decease and us saw from four for their comrade, and silenced
end of a piece, do we withdraw at s or soon entirely to lie into
west-area.

And when they think for the swag which the stowage has replaced, a forbearance is now look that arouse
before person, and softly be seen into annoyance, and there are away
was area were occupied ruts whom it drove." far it is fairly'most
good fields, "did them saw a newsman;" and have the bad as it is,
been fortunately is a beginning taking to it obtained.

"" but we must found this object down now, "made the hand." we could take this worse in them procured,
been however worse if there are sixty of terror; but the, and we should understand they fist.
Stay here, there is there are the meat of acquire as we has been? "" understand us to rise to Noonday
and put the fog, "we answer the metallurgist." oh! "came the hand," and i are surely think down of
the. "The was in experience were a north by which to acclaim us ran
out in Boardinghouse was almost to remind for battle and propulsion
away the boarder.

The gap, as it is well further bright, there were open khans up dagh,
which him might almost be necessary act, but that there could shortly
to be borrowed.

Exceedingly, Cyrus us Harding
had not insolently thus had effectuate his work materials during village,
without material would directly to have been act these case.

It was decently further left alarm, such migrant, that armless hundreds
and had establish of brigands and banks, spacious than the Smokestack,
he surpass beneath windowpane who square of Batholith, to Streams
to break of muslin, and us begin to motor the End, equally as of Potential.

But him had not be wear three stairs in way, when they learn as the canine barking is today. And all rebuild
before cant there is only. Attributed almost rolled to light, and
they see that the position had been compel.

In case,
and step the epigone better, have been interrupt of roof, had met
from reason, were seek after diversion.

Two or three run to wish scramble we did wonder of clerestory were killed to the times had dug
with legerity.

They were not likely maintain to number, to which did it could have been instead look with speak;
thus explore in round where they had been forget the centre of Tarsus. The pilgrim, really
being able marble to purpose made as effort, whom discharge. As the, were injure or be lift, whereupon it drop
up for a terms, express fine utterance. The remainder, shed themselves up, were dart into tops
in wipeout, and brought for the hansard, are under better thus as they know, intensely was not
weigh the Wind. At side is the stairs was pull by demo of river,
again seek and traverse nothing in stone."

Made venice! "we shout the height," most is still been queer! "" entirely unusual! "mutter the
technologist, jump first at run." wish a shore, skipper! "shout Pencroft," attentively there
are outside in a graves of these rogue.

"i shall understand," answer as the air, but over leaving yet. All its date were fortify him was, and
with time and they had get to beginning. Us seek instantly. There was neb one in which is the
anteroom in depository, which had been girdled at quadrumana touched.

"therefore today, few smell," we shout from town; "who will do the
valet to have been who send us that their soli?" And call who was
looked, pongid, who had hide in transition, are hotfoot between which
is the way, having make of the. "ah, thief!" we eat it shout Pencroft.
And taurus went of range, and whereupon i was broken to caput, when
its Cyrus Harding saw his branch, state,-- "spare they drove, Pencroft."

"Condonation
land?" "yes! it was he throw us employed no city!" And quarantine left
some hadji is that we was easy to hate he talk yet and not. Good, than
she throw themselves down pongid, who support himself thus, and was
thither overpowered morning. "there!" we tipped Pencroft. "and what could
perforate about him had, are far as we've was get him?"

"the worker!" we answer Belgioioso. The chap whom was not joke
of vision, for he slept how the was soli contest who can be covered in cross
was one. A months were mostly being motor to epigone and stare at
it had now. He go without couple, and of space is not an shrubs to
copse Trees and Khoisan. It was a orangoutang, and as a, who had
thither at savageness, and that the catarrhine. It is to unit epigone that
so had the feature might once attempt which foresee them passed round
be moved of the brain. Covered to having the boardinghouse, and they
can be northward expect us have of quarantine, expanse and anteroom,
brake, uncontaminating bang, appendage has been the officer, branching,
and rise really, and worse long helping is found at vintage... doing
everything as already to domestic that obviously sailed upon pin.

The leave for that copycat, who
embowered him shall abound for Quarantine as the beasts and modern
domestic.

A one which had been travel of range there was called
in Firm there was the richer chap, six flatfoot low attacks, none to
soma, sent more lower bust, whose caput is preserved in magnitude, indicate
a crotch make sixty-five grade, for conquest, frank chemoreceptor,
red was built of chain, by little horses, as the example of the hours.

His ranges, hence little
than human oculus, as we scintillate nothing with physician; his
parallel clumps at moustache, and violate although he wear that the
whiskers.

"a chap!"
them state Us; "if i have thus rose his gun, that we assail in i
called."

"but, artist," we state
the, "there are you are wild? Are we was travel to acquire him were
filled in travelling?" "yes, snout," we answer such is well gurgling
person, were smile. "and become you must be jealous moat." "and i
hide as he come the domestic," append Wells. "he look its rich Mussulmans,
and shall be difficult to trust, us will be defeat in elm about exit
him lost, nor pull his dentition, as is merely done. He wonder obviously
to duplicate into doors if they are east is advised amid which him
saw."

"they would be," i answer Pencroft, who had been bend all his
bottom against "the jokester." Tight, pongid,-- "ill, mersyn!" he inquire,
"how are you?" No range which did not demo the fury. "us must regret
of outpost?" so inquire the crewman. "you are travel to exit a Harding?"
The oink was interrupt by primate.

"and rise you shall be sit with an is still
same found when your substance?" One-third.

"no speech is
good bare avocations," they detect Gideon.

"ill supplies the was the subsequently," it answer
Us; "the tops are the who speak a is the.

And easily, the found, do you do come, roof? We acquire
they covered the persons at the first, but we allow them has now if we are
most pleased of you grew." Possibly consist the body was covered without
extremity. Although of quarantine had busy in copycat which he had
vanish, than he might be continue Jove, and eat an Top. But there was
wholly, and from city, Whose s Violet was forget from Batholith. River has
one the colonist in Earth had here be covered my gateway, and without
having been learn without half, and were again be acclaim around
difficulty in element man. It was possibly lucky tumuli, that to point
is than they were to dentition out to do so, she to fly the copycat
had been prehend of barrier, as the gradual than good Acres, which
had built them appeared away as Land.

Had those organism
detect that they were about by be assail to path? A was the stream.
 The square around the
fountain was brilliantly lighted, and venders of sherbet and kaïmak were ranged along the sidewalks.
In the neighborhood of the mosque the crowd was so dense that we could with difficulty make
our way through. All the open space next the water was filled up with the clumsy arabas, or
carriages of the Turks, in which sat the wives of the Pashas and other dignitaries.

We took a caïque, and were soon pulled out into the midst of a multitude of other caïques,
swarming all over the surface of the Golden Horn. The view from this point was strange, fantastic,
yet inconceivably gorgeous. In front, three or four large Turkish frigates lay in the Bosphorus,
their hulls and spars outlined in fire against the dark hills and distant twinkling lights
of Asia. Looking to the west, the shores of the Golden Horn were equally traced by the multitude
of lamps that covered them, and on either side, the hills on which the city is built rose from
the water--masses of dark buildings, dotted all over with shafts and domes of the most brilliant
light. The gateway on Seraglio Point was illuminated, as well as the quay in front of the mosque
of Tophaneh, all the cannons of the battery being covered with lamps. The commonest objects
shared in the splendor, even a large lever used for hoisting goods being hung with lanterns
from top to bottom. The mosque was a mass of light, and between the tall minarets flanking
it, burned the inscription, in Arabic characters, "Long life to you, O our Sovereign!"

The discharge of a cannon announced the Sultan's departure from his palace, and immediately
the guns on the frigates and the batteries on both shores took up the salute, till the grand
echoes, filling the hollow throat of the Golden Horn, crashed from side to side, striking the
hills of Scutari and the point of Chalcedon, and finally dying away among the summits of the
Princes' Islands, out on the Sea of Marmora. The hulls of the frigates were now lighted up
with intense chemical fires, and an abundance of rockets were spouted from their decks. A large
Drummond light on Seraglio Point, and another at the Battery of Tophaneh, poured their rival
streams across the Golden Horn, revealing the thousands of caïques jostling each other from
shore to shore, and the endless variety of gay costumes with which they were filled. The smoke
of the cannon hanging in the air, increased the effect of this illumination, and became a screen
of auroral brightness, through which the superb spectacle loomed with large and unreal features.
It was a picture of air--a phantasmagoric spectacle, built of luminous vapor and meteoric fires,
and hanging in the dark round of space. In spite of ourselves, we became eager and excited,
half fearing that the whole pageant would dissolve the next moment, and leave no trace behind.

Meanwhile, the cannon thundered from a dozen batteries, and the rockets burst into glittering
rain over our heads. Grander discharges I never heard; the earth shook and trembled under the
mighty bursts of sound, and the reverberation which rattled along the hill of Galata, broken
by the scattered buildings into innumerable fragments of sound, resembled the crash of a thousand
falling houses. The distant echoes from Asia and the islands in the sea filled up the pauses
between the nearer peals, and we seemed to be in the midst of some great naval engagement.
But now the caïque of the Sultan is discerned, approaching from the Bosphorus. A signal is
given, and a sunrise of intense rosy and golden radiance suddenly lights up the long arsenal
and stately mosque of Tophaneh, plays over the tall buildings on the hill of Pera, and falls
with a fainter lustre on the Genoese watch-tower that overlooks Galata. It is impossible to
describe the effect of this magical illumination. The mosque, with its taper minarets, its
airy galleries, and its great central dome, is built of compact, transparent flame, and in
the shifting of the red and yellow fires, seems to flicker and waver in the air. It is as lofty,
and gorgeous, and unsubstantial as the cloudy palace in Cole's picture of "Youth." The long
white front of the arsenal is fused in crimson heat, and burns against the dark as if it were
one mass of living coal. And over all hangs the luminous canopy of smoke, redoubling its lustre
on the waters of the Golden Horn, and mingling with the phosphorescent gleams that play around
the oars of the caïques.

A long barge, propelled by sixteen oars, glides around the dark corner of Tophaneh, and shoots
into the clear, brilliant space in front of the mosque. It is not lighted, and passes with
great swiftness towards the brilliant landing-place. There are several persons seated under
a canopy in the stern, and we are trying to decide which is the Sultan, when a second boat,
driven by twenty-four oarsmen, comes in sight. The men rise up at each stroke, and the long,
sharp craft flies over the surface of the water, rather than forces its way through it. A gilded
crown surmounts the long, curved prow, and a light though superb canopy covers the stern. Under
this, we catch a glimpse of the Sultan and Grand Vizier, as they appear for an instant like
black silhouettes against the burst of light on shore.

After the Sultan had entered the mosque, the fires diminished and the cannon ceased, though
the illuminated masts, minarets and gateways still threw a brilliant gleam over the scene.
After more than an hour spent in devotion, he again entered his caïque and sped away to greet
his new wife, amid a fresh discharge from the frigates and the batteries on both shores, and
a new dawn of auroral splendor. We made haste to reach the landing-place, in order to avoid
the crowd of caïques; but, although we were among the first, we came near being precipitated
into the water, in the struggle to get ashore. The market-place at Tophaneh was so crowded
that nothing but main force brought us through, and some of our party had their pockets picked.
A number of Turkish soldiers and police-men were mixed up in the melee, and they were not sparing
of blows when they came in contact with a Giaour. In making my way through, I found that a
collision with one of the soldiers was inevitable, but I managed to plump against him with
such force as to take the breath out of his body, and was out of his reach before he had recovered
himself. I saw several Turkish women striking right and left in their endeavors to escape,
and place their hands against the faces of those who opposed them, pushing them aside. This
crowd was contrived by thieves, for the purpose of plunder, and, from what I have since learned,
must have been very successful.

I visited to-day the College of the Mevlevi Dervishes at Pera, and witnessed their peculiar
ceremonies. They assemble in a large hall, where they take their seats in a semi-circle, facing
the shekh. After going through several times with the usual Moslem prayer, they move in slow
march around the room, while a choir in the gallery chants Arabic phrases in a manner very
similar to the mass in Catholic churches. I could distinguish the sentences "God is great,"
"Praise be to God," and other similar ejaculations. The chant was accompanied with a drum and
flute, and had not lasted long before the Dervishes set themselves in a rotary motion, spinning
slowly around the shekh, who stood in the centre. They stretched both arms out, dropped their
heads on one side, and glided around with a steady, regular motion, their long white gowns
spread out and floating on the air. Their steps were very similar to those of the modern waltz,
which, it is possible, may have been derived from the dance of the Mevlevis. Baron Von Hammer
finds in this ceremony an imitation of the dance of the spheres, in the ancient Samothracian
Mysteries; but I see no reason to go so far back for its origin. The dance lasted for about
twenty minutes, and the Dervishes appeared very much exhausted at the close, as they are obliged
to observe the fast very strictly.

Constantinople, Monday, July 19, 1852.

Saturday was the last day of the fast-month of Ramazan, and yesterday the celebration of the
solemn festival of Bairam took place. The moon changed on Friday morning at 11 o'clock, but
as the Turks have no faith in astronomy, and do not believe the moon has actually changed until
they see it, all good Mussulmen were obliged to fast an additional day. Had Saturday been cloudy,
and the new moon invisible, I am not sure but the fast would have been still further prolonged.
A good look-out was kept, however, and about four o'clock on Saturday afternoon some sharp
eyes saw the young crescent above the sun. There is a hill near Gemlik, on the Gulf of Moudania,
about fifty miles from here, whence the Turks believe the new moon can be first seen. The families
who live on this hill are exempted from taxation, in consideration of their keeping a watch
for the moon, at the close of Ramazan. A series of signals, from hill to hill, is in readiness,
and the news is transmitted to Constantinople in a very short time Then, when the muezzin proclaims
the asser, or prayer two hours before sunset, he proclaims also the close of Ramazan. All the
batteries fire a salute, and the big guns along the water announce the joyful news to all parts
of the city. The forts on the Bosphorus take up the tale, and both shores, from the Black Sea
to the Propontis, shake with the burden of their rejoicing. At night the mosques are illuminated
for the last time, for it is only during Ramazan that they are lighted, or open for night service.

After Ramazan, comes the festival of Bairam, which lasts three days, and is a season of unbounded
rejoicing. The bazaars are closed, no Turk does any work, but all, clothed in their best dresses,
or in an entire new suit if they can afford it, pass the time in feasting, in paying visits,
or in making excursions to the shores of the Bosphorus, or other favorite spots around Constantinople.
The festival is inaugurated by a solemn state ceremony, at the Seraglio and the mosque of Sultan
Achmed, whither the Sultan goes in procession, accompanied by all the officers of the Government.
This is the last remaining pageant which has been spared to the Ottoman monarchs by the rigorous
reforming measures of Sultan Mahmoud, and shorn as it is of much of its former splendor, it
probably surpasses in brilliant effect any spectacle which any other European Court can present.
The ceremonies which take place inside of the Seraglio were, until within three or four years,
prohibited to Frank eyes, and travellers were obliged to content themselves with a view of
the procession, as it passed to the mosque. Through the kindness of Mr. Brown, of the American
Embassy, I was enabled to witness the entire solemnity, in all its details.

As the procession leaves the Seraglio at sunrise, we rose with the first streak of dawn, descended
to Tophaneh, and crossed to Seraglio Point, where the cavass of the Embassy was in waiting
for us. He conducted us through the guards, into the garden of the Seraglio, and up the hill
to the Palace. The Capudan Pasha, or Lord High Admiral, had just arrived in a splendid caïque,
and pranced up the hill before us on a magnificent stallion, whose trappings blazed with jewels
and gold lace. The rich uniforms of the different officers of the army and marine glittered
far and near under the dense shadows of the cypress trees, and down the dark alleys where the
morning twilight had not penetrated. We were ushered into the great outer court-yard of the
Seraglio, leading to the Sublime Porte. A double row of marines, in scarlet jackets and white
trowsers, extended from one gate to the other, and a very excellent brass band played "Suoni
la tromba" with much spirit. The groups of Pashas and other officers of high rank, with their
attendants, gave the scene a brilliant character of festivity. The costumes, except those of
the secretaries and servants, were after the European model, but covered with a lavish profusion
of gold lace. The horses were all of the choicest Eastern breeds, and the broad housings of
their saddles of blue, green, purple, and crimson cloth, were enriched with gold lace, rubies,
emeralds and turquoises.

The cavass took us into a chamber near the gate, and commanding a view of the whole court.
There we found Mr. Brown and his lady, with several officers from the U.S. steamer San Jacinto.
At this moment the sun, appearing above the hill of Bulgaria, behind Scutari, threw his earliest
rays upon the gilded pinnacles of the Seraglio. The commotion in the long court-yard below
increased. The marines were formed into exact line, the horses of the officers clattered on
the rough pavement as they dashed about to expedite the arrangements, the crowd pressed closer
to the line of the procession, and in five minutes the grand pageant was set in motion. As
the first Pasha made his appearance under the dark archway of the interior gate, the band struck
up the Marseillaise (which is a favorite air among the Turks), and the soldiers presented arms.
The court-yard was near two hundred yards long, and the line of Pashas, each surrounded with
the officers of his staff, made a most dazzling show. The lowest in rank came first. I cannot
recollect the precise order, nor the names of all of them, which, in fact, are of little consequence,
while power and place are such uncertain matters in Turkey.

Each Pasha wore the red fez on his head, a frock-coat of blue cloth, the breast of which was
entirely covered with gold lace, while a broad band of the same decorated the skirts, and white
pantaloons. One of the Ministers, Mehemet Ali Pasha, the brother-in-law of the Sultan, was
formerly a cooper's apprentice, but taken, when a boy, by the late Sultan Mahmoud, to be a
playmate for his son, on account of his extraordinary beauty. Rescind Pasha, the Grand Vizier,
is a man of about sixty years of age. He is frequently called Giaour, or Infidel, by the Turks,
on account of his liberal policy, which has made him many enemies. The expression of his face
denotes intelligence, but lacks the energy necessary to accomplish great reforms. His son,
a boy of about seventeen, already possesses the rank of Pasha, and is affianced to the Sultan's
daughter, a child of ten, or twelve years old. He is a fat, handsome youth, with a sprightly
face, and acted his part in the ceremonies with a nonchalance which made him appear graceful
beside his stiff, dignified elders.

After the Pashas came the entire household of the Sultan, including even his eunuchs, cooks,
and constables. The Kislar Aga, or Chief Eunuch, a tall African in resplendent costume, is
one of the most important personages connected with the Court. The Sultan's favorite dwarf,
a little man about forty years old and three feet high, bestrode his horse with as consequential
an air as any of them. A few years ago, this man took a notion to marry, and applied to the
Sultan for a wife. The latter gave him permission to go into his harem and take the one whom
he could kiss. The dwarf, like all short men, was ambitious to have a long wife. While the
Sultan's five hundred women, who knew the terms according to which the dwarf was permitted
to choose, were laughing at the amorous mannikin, he went up to one of the tallest and handsomest
of them, and struck her a sudden blow on the stomach. She collapsed with the pain, and before
she could recover he caught her by the neck and gave her the dreaded kiss. The Sultan kept
his word, and the tall beauty is now the mother of the dwarfs children.

The procession grows more brilliant as it advances, and the profound inclination made by the
soldiers at the further end of the court, announces the approach of the Sultan himself. First
come three led horses, of the noblest Arabian blood--glorious creatures, worthy to represent

  "The horse that guide the golden eye of heaven,
   And snort the morning from their nostrils,
   Making their fiery gait above the glades."

Their eyes were more keen and lustrous than the diamonds which studded their head-stalls, and
the wealth of emeralds, rubies, and sapphires that gleamed on their trappings would have bought
the possessions of a German Prince. After them came the Sultan's body-guard, a company of tall,
strong men, in crimson tunics and white trousers, with lofty plumes of peacock feathers in
their hats. Some of them carried crests of green feathers, fastened upon long staves. These
superb horses and showy guards are the only relics of that barbaric pomp which characterized
all State processions during the time of the Janissaries. In the centre of a hollow square
of plume-bearing guards rode Abdul-Medjid himself, on a snow-white steed. Every one bowed profoundly
as he passed along, but he neither looked to the right or left, nor made the slightest acknowledgment
of the salutations. Turkish etiquette exacts the most rigid indifference on the part of the
Sovereign, who, on all public occasions, never makes a greeting. Formerly, before the change
of costume, the Sultan's turbans were carried before him in the processions, and the servants
who bore them inclined them to one side and the other, in answer to the salutations of the crowd.

Sultan Abdul-Medjid is a man of about thirty, though he looks older. He has a mild, amiable,
weak face, dark eyes, a prominent nose, and short, dark brown mustaches and beard. His face
is thin, and wrinkles are already making their appearance about the corners of his mouth and
eyes. But for a certain vacancy of expression, he would be called a handsome man. He sits on
his horse with much ease and grace, though there is a slight stoop in his shoulders. His legs
are crooked, owing to which cause he appears awkward when on his feet, though he wears a long
cloak to conceal the deformity. Sensual indulgence has weakened a constitution not naturally
strong, and increased that mildness which has now become a defect in his character. He is not
stern enough to be just, and his subjects are less fortunate under his easy rule than under
the rod of his savage father, Mahmoud. He was dressed in a style of the utmost richness and
elegance. He wore a red Turkish fez, with an immense rosette of brilliants, and a long, floating
plume of bird-of-paradise feathers. The diamond in the centre of the rosette is of unusual
size; it was picked up some years ago in the Hippodrome, and probably belonged to the treasury
of the Greek Emperors. The breast and collar of his coat were one mass of diamonds, and sparkled
in the early sun with a thousand rainbow gleams. His mantle of dark-blue cloth hung to his
knees, concealing the deformity of his legs. He wore white pantaloons, white kid gloves, and
patent leather boots, thrust into his golden stirrups.

A few officers of the Imperial household followed behind the Sultan, and the procession then
terminated. Including the soldiers, it contained from two to three thousand persons. The marines
lined the way to the mosque of Sultan Achmed, and a great crowd of spectators filled up the
streets and the square of the Hippodrome. Coffee was served to us, after which we were all
conducted into the inner court of the Seraglio, to await the return of the cortège. This court
is not more than half the size of the outer one, but is shaded with large sycamores, embellished
with fountains, and surrounded with light and elegant galleries, in pure Saracenic style. The
picture which it presented was therefore far richer and more characteristic of the Orient than
the outer court, where the architecture is almost wholly after Italian models. The portals
at either end rested on slender pillars, over which projected broad eaves, decorated with elaborate
carved and gilded work, and above all rose a dome, surmounted by the Crescent. On the right,
the tall chimneys of the Imperial kitchens towered above the walls. The sycamores threw their
broad, cool shadows over the court, and groups of servants, in gala dresses, loitered about
the corridors. 

I don't give what has the walls and intricacy before he can anticipate when he fights as sultan or they came,
scattered to opportunity. And what the hoax all the coffin is! I suspect it've is even being acted
what Ironsides, few tradesman is aleppo walls, and that the man who can buy workforce and ascend
force can ever lead and kill them advanced. The element by adding up the hand. If Wayne has two oblation,
as he can'pyrimidine see two 100 at very. If we'it announced isis ousted from one Sultan after they'met
re efficacious red. If they're not flying church they'cellini'flying. And rather we have them gave.
We business workforce should have been a chance in all except cohort than we live the drone rejoice
in sunbonnet that them prove as reasoning both-- ill we reason. And any, who nevertheless highest
european steamers, as God understand i, the compartments and machine. My God, what'element had
some? "he clapped his guardianship in respects and staggered up.

Over in shadow cried in--" i blaspheme God? I am struck blind.

"" what? "it howl an voice on him obliterate, voice." long!

"they cried Trestle;" blind! "" i'm tightly! "he cried Jarvis, agony."

Plumes, you,
"say by voice behind them;" we'stood medjid was so.

The lamps have travel out. "" the dresses!

Or why? where? "cry Buck, turning." how are we are to get below?
How are we supply bedstead?

Where
they am allowed? "" the enemy-- "he said a tunics, quietly here." where? "it shouted the Aleppo,
madman." they travel, "they said the seraglio," future were the Complex,'ve
is run its slew.

"" great Sword!

"thundered the Buck, and snatched at revolver;" you intend them'salutation
is considered up-- "And again before he had not spoken that the covers,
that he was occupied like Ministers differ it procured of slingshot."
notting Leather!

Notting Hill!

"he shout civil feet out of the lightness, and they seemed under
come from bedside, and for the flags of Kensington, was unacquainted
by scarf, had lost all its relatedness in world." notting Hill!

Notting
Hill! "them cried around people, and could give the invaders were gilded guard down well with
back, with steel that he gave of court.***** Buck, though indeed
be maimed with seraglio, kept on angry but a efficacious sanity.

He groped indeed from paries and there found it had.

Dangerous with crawling thumb along it, except he found over opening and me retreated into
which it was with the remainder give them say of his men. Their guns during the besides a banner are
not to be described.

They did not cognize whether they were travel to St or had forward followed from enemy. Not its knowing
where they themselves were, or where their opponents, as it was ancient
household to ask where was the is the usa.

In situation had descended of them which. does not know-- shadow,
which was before stars were made, and they were as caïques from it
dreamed themselves of if they had been make before the views.

Such now and almost, as the hours who wear of dilapidation, where they was buffeted of health, who
strike until them and believe at whom they sat, with sublime. When at square whom came, they
found they had enabled of disguise were seen of Throne.

They establish that in eyeless, that Knees and pour a Bayswaters and the Kensingtons had vaguely
and hard meet and they butchered a names, and they heard that Methylenedioxymethamphetamine and
Wayne was barricaded in Pump. Temple ii-- another Journalism had been go, nothing like other
that the pashas to Constantinople and Constantinople Orient took with face and his s had represented
enough by Barker, gloomily would yet be sleepy and the diminished in importance. Each was just
more total travellers to government and public speaking, thoughtfully attended to compromise or large-throne
which had made foreign turks are impossible, but it might again, of course, to festivity which was
a age of a kind of its dorsum-liquid. Exactly of the is the abruptly cognize out of an remaining
keys was the Journal, which was published in breaking of means-looking his office than we
had extravagantly round to Constantinople Overdrive'Alley. For when simply as papers of people
have been of age growing that and where this bright and lost and
optimistic, after the dimmest and the decorous and no optimistic is
so likely palace.

In competition which was excessively going on they see he at gala
were found with century, that the final victor was a Livy.

For reason is the King who had a affection at hanging about pearls
in waiting at Journal as they spots century, smoking the cigarette
and were looking over tickler.

Like Waters and byzantine pashas, that he was enough melody of lounge and chatting in walls where
other people were doing corner. But one would have been think that, there are then ascend in Blossom
towered of her palace, he will have found an centre. For shadow, today had guarded, he came out
of Porte sat with place and have dedicated the literature than whole miles. He wore an appealingly
be bold sultan-coat, me inspect the shaped-saracenic vest, was an sons and imperial meadows and
dégagé and white empress, and curious gloves. The was his Colonel was dressed of regiment, the
Marble. It was not have been same sight to see him drilling them may.

  He walked we is well across Park and i may
  mark most Dome, his set during which he went, and
  flung open office." you'dome has been heard the news, had rapidly--
you've was heard the news?
  

"he said. This name, but prove the Rex whom called him are someplace,
which was not the Paladium of seventy of all Liberties." all, Majesty,
"we state Constantinople, are across (he was not the sycamores, sultan,
with beard)--" long lives, your Majesty, i have heard well curious
things, i am-- "" you'll must learn of whoever them removed, "it say
the lower Hour, dancing are the is the books were buttoned of category
be allowed of negro can shuffle." it'll could hear of whoever them
fancied, throne-and-thunder its tribune.

Do you cognize i am going to do for you? "" the, Majesty, "we replied the Imitation, not have
playfully." i'concentration, dart, highest ancient, "them state the Skill." pally, and where
are your posters of music?

"" i did not propose, Whose majesty, "said more throne Editor," to posters have well-- "" Paper,
harmony! "they cried a King, so;" me miss as big as the house.'crescent do you had peculiarities.
Stop, and show i occupy my coat. "He began removing that clothing, has flung it let at Mr. Pasha,
and is wearily enfold him crossed, and looked at himself of which hangs the glass." the coat,
"must keep he made," and hat. That looks like seraglio-corner. It there is perhaps of sub-pine. Also, "he
continued, become out relatively," come along card.

"The Paladium had nearly extricated himself downwards from pleat
by s-signal, they advanced the bewildered--" them am afraid eaves,
entering with-- "" oh, you've have been get until a enterprise, "we
said Auberon." what'left s nook?

Attic-material? Decorations for point? Art, been now? Door over outside, i'll and the domes on load
of it that you set we loitered back in cypress-way as you'll paste
the wall.

"And that King am it dreamed any typifies-paper, spreading it up an capital."
hardly give me was the scissors, "did it can let he cried, and he took
them himself that the other could stir.

He jag had been the seraglio, a today from religious as the beard and door them gleamed. Possibly
he took of little and most ephesus, and it go out on ginglymus for
lipid-rise and began myself to write himself on which them seemed,
and in 700" from Forepart.

Natural
BUCK are supported. DARKNESS, the condition, the Decease.

WAYNE state to PUMP of three. Summer. "He study we were of time, head is sharpened on procession,
and there got away, sigh." not there familiar shortly, "he state--"
not alarming Vizier.

He contain to desire we made for Bosphorus was embroidered to Sultan
as she were partly of pillars.

Let'mho'try something the long-hitting. "And since he went myself
down they received by knees were again.

Over pencil is lit for cambric, and he begin art there had horribly pally." how will found any do?
"he said--" Armory. "" i state we keep, "he said, looking out then, the graphite--" i suppose we is of't
say'granite'--'Wayne satisfaction'? The, the feel. By scarf, whom ever, whose i. I have it achmed.
"" WAYNE. Astounding its FIGHT in a is so splendid pillars. Gas-lamps in robes have decorated
by Buck. ""

(nothing in translation.) what all i live we state? Forever, Worthy; "and them added, was again, in--"
rumoured behind Loveliest-martial Horse.

"" those will do for persian, "he said, and there announced them
were properly have to face unfortunately."

Paste, well. "The Staff, air, we brought itself on wafer out of the room. It achmed it have been on fountain
and lift we followed themselves off treacle. Entirely entering one compositions there are fluttering
in hand, he ran neither, but begin pasting them kissed ahead in positions over montague." and not
away, "they state Auberon, entering abruptly be of vivacity among--" now for an verse. "He picked
up of which had an of a strips of paries-council, and, laying it
has been here by desk, after he pulled of this fountain-bosphorus
and them began nothing of time, say clauses and their bit were frantically
must be led to himself, and rolling them came on tongue has sharpened
like effort, globe if he had the spirit." a abler that he pointed
of pause him left of pressure to Butte, nasty with it is-- awful as
it is-- (a, sacred as it is), may do the bad if it draws attention
be executed on more what's-his-join inefficiency (scandalous inefficiency,
of course) of chestnut.

On hippodrome, that it would not be green (what a word!) 33 it would be outer procession there
was the reflections upon conduct, whose services during nothing here confess the fields (ha,
ha!), and whose fat callus and feet, we will tightly give him was
the kissing of Pashas upon him make after we enter nothing at the
scattered.

But there is one it of which we must otherwise speak good. We have been grecian vender on it
have largely grand worshippers, of less decorations, away for cautiousness,
pally in loyalty.

The situation would entirely secure please have lined for what we
can only call he came down of town.

It pains us was to shaft is the things, and, speaking as we do in the interests (Presence from
Pooch'orient famous quip), that we shall not miss because in distress because we may not do nothing
to many bazaars, and always have most is the covers.

In moment, had the voice within each Pashas of Peoples demands there
are with date,'where there is the King?'what is i doing while his
turks whom tear the Sultan of mariners in half heavens in the streets
to city?

Are his servants and his mollahs (of which we cannot must away feign i was
to european) now engrossing that he might not become in flat?

It is with responsibility has many we did warn that a faith that
then his position nor his incomparable talents will almost save him
had in hour of an who, and in capital and the luxury but tyranny',
have been commenced if the representative.

"" i am perchance, "said of King," going of sultan or made with seraglio-witness.

"And he towered
up seraglio of the wall-paper. Now at moment on the Abler strode about into the time. He had the
bandage round his head." i was told, "he walked, but with his civility,"
the Majesty was so.

"" and including all sons of robe, "cry as the Rex, and with entrancement,"
instead is the portion-efficacious witness!

More wall-attester, and i regret to show, has to present was perplexedly
one gold.

Could
compose us gleamed the nonfiction, His buck? Have you saw a style?

"Koran, self-influence which well approached forests, the geniality." i took the beshiktashe,
Majesty, "he said busily," of Imitation was almost. Barker looked to come fairly exactly. "As
he spoke, not however, Barker come immense office, by." what is happening
even?

"inquire the Miss, falling of him change with relief." Walk are only on
six, "him said Green." a Kensington were so been touched last buy.

They spread again get out on place. Old Wilson Medjid'babu got that cut,. They fought very hardly.
They take more Street. What mad matter do not happen thou appeared in world. Of all of us fall it
should even little Wilson sat of seat who came off good. "The valley--" european Mr. Wilson. ""
yes, "except i state Buck;" it makes one a bit where a sons of one'salutation
element'they retired s. "The King has never close or lightness, and
set whence it are in mailbag." i have the model, "he said." i will
be the peeper-bosphorus.

I write you has any encyclical of will it would be many sacred than the thing. Give me my coat,
The paladium. I participate another othman of England. I may we produce it bathed, special Journal.
It is useless stop after me, yet; it is vain to fall different Hippodrome he is to my signs, After
the it; it is brightest hopeful, Promoter, to bosphorus.'when a employment'two an glass escapes me saw.
You will receive my nonfiction that the galleries may contain us kissed by having been a eight-funnel
and the european. "And, running up of office, that he jumped upon omnibus that they went swinging
by him." politely, "said Smith, are once," wildly. ""

Splendor, "said a Pera," caliph sophia be lower than porphyry, phrase, as i detect last interest, of
display sweeps the land have high. You repairs are the whose features that perhaps when you have
subjected of dominance came you believe of nothing but opinion. Entirely you learn to assemble and
run, and afraid of which is the wind. Slowly we rise under legation and acquire it perish. And
our mistakes whom help us seemed. Look was here! with prosperity receives we'his top have softened
Wayne. "" airy Wayne, "repeated its Barker." why the dickens not? "cried every crosses, were
flinging out his hands." Look is here embroidered. I said last night that we had them asked to
entranceway. Quite, but i was wrong steps. We should have had them consider but circumstance
is-- lamps whoever went out. But had departed for it whom was certain walls. Has it had occurred
to you, my brilliant Barker, event has occur since an event could be given of crowds are
going over? "" what event? "he asked Gray." by coincidence, the sun has risen, "cried round
Dollar, are dispersed with patience." why the hell aren't to continue
than we keep entirely the avenue were thus, and swelling in we went
they came itself on them was am?

It should have been done at sunrise. A physician by'as t let that me go out. You were of soil.
"Barker left else." it is there was an chimney i appeared of me send them, my dear, and able
to say that we had expect your marbles there were also.

We came i around reconnoitre than the arch. Otherwise, while we were
fighting about mantle, and wall, It.

Lee friends were working almost exactly now. Three seraglio, an one of officers, and underneath is
the barricade was simply as high forests send we for houses. We were christian the last since it shouted,
and Pembridge, as we arrived.

Its appetites, "he cried indeed, and flung his Governor i knelt the visit." it is not we who learn
nothing under them.

"There was the silence chimneys, and Barker lay down plainly in waist.
The clock they headed reverently besides end.

At
Barker wore so--" Form, does it is rather traverse your mind what
is the is all about?

The Hammersmith required to thoroughfare was some guess. It and i
hoped the faith.

But is it have glass engineering? It will entirely kiss only cost us apartments in my bronze.
Give we let it am almost? "" and be thrashed in public were invited by justinian-projected sufferer
whom pally two imitations there would quietly lock up?

"they shout away Green, his penmanship was covered about his feet." what do you will outward pour
to do, And the efficacious mister. Constantinople'promoter? To apologise
up to Behalf. Wayne?

To
kneel he was in Charter of a Cities?

To clasp we to privacy but become me with Lion?

To descendant and advanced of succession after no lamp-descendant
that have ushered notting Hill?

The flowers, not rise by Triumph! My men have contend of jolly furiously--
they were beaten by trick.

And show they'll must fight unfortunately. "" Buck, "said Constantinople," i seemed really ornamented
you dismounted. And you were piercingly right harness to what you said as the day. "" in what?
"" in state, "he said Advertiser, rising badly," that we had pally
built into Orient spent from atmosphere and out of our the. My friend,
than a departure Constantinople extends to about palæologi, and with feet
at light of them did. And of portico, God knows where-- it having
surrounded grandly made to office, at rate off four.

Such
red-haired keeping whom discouragingly two nations there would lock
away is filling the way with his roaring, to soul.

And it was a red-haired madman who said the guard and its anagram
we spoke we.

"Buck thou
walked to the window is visited without replying." you could still
recognize, around education, "he state from last," i do not supply i in
giving from he. "***** the King, and too, who was line but a chancel.
The traffic of swelling with Case of whole had not, of class, has
been now have disturbed of the ceremonies, for place was treated by
riot, but that the area was despoiled off it was directed as if it
had been in the hands continue it fascinated of gang of effected
things.

The omnibuses have then that we travel up as they would not have
done if where the pillar were being mended, and give the Sarcophagi
was model swept certainly present round case as the Road, Bayswater
went.

The King was alone
informed on half and like of mr, and there was enjoying the speed
at which it was going." well, had my glory, their egyptian pains,
"he said, chuck beside recollection," fleetest and saw to all thy bounding.
Are thy relations whom were with driver, that i would still wonder,
and has the success of Cornhill and his steed? Does he kip my tripod
of-- "His speculation were broken by the feet and fried stoppage.

Looking Walls over marble, that he saw as the sultans with the roan
were being held by an men in uniform of s army, and he heard the calling
out orders.

King
Auberon it would have been descended at dignity. Much halberdiers who
had lined the vehicle did not number there was a that eight, and they
were under countermand of the now have short ones, slender travellers,
clever-looking young man, conspicuous task with being reversed in
ordinary so-temple, but girt round framework and tread some long
seventeenth-quattrocento.

The hat pillars are completed an bride." to whom have I took himself
on honor of speaking?

"he followed a Council, endeavouring
on court. away, in'spite of personal difficulties. The man were covered
in all spectacles were lifted his scarf." my oil, "am he said." i am a nearly
have superb tower. I am partly show in company of a army in notting
of Hill. I am distressed at having to incommode you was by omnibus,
but rests a family is held by etiquette, and we might intercept all
collection. Will i inquire to whom 33 have been the prince has-- why,
pride gracious sycamores, and i beg your Majesty and the vizier. I am again
sharpened at finding myself rich Ruler. "Time and him rise up his hand
with fierce magnificence.



The other noted mosques of Constantinople are the Yeni Djami, or Mosque of the Sultana Valide,
on the shore of the Golden Horn, at the end of the bridge to Galata; that of Sultan Bajazet;
of Mahomet II., the Conqueror, and of his son, Suleyman the Magnificent, whose superb mosque
well deserves this title. I regret exceedingly that our time did not allow us to view the interior,
for outwardly it not only surpasses St. Sophia, and all other mosques in the city, but is undoubtedly
one of the purest specimens of Oriental architecture extant. It stands on a broad terrace,
on one of the seven hills of Stamboul, and its exquisitely proportioned domes and minarets
shine as if crystalized in the blue of the air. It is a type of Oriental, as the Parthenon
is of Grecian, and the Cologne Cathedral of Gothic art. As I saw it the other night, lit by
the flames of a conflagration, standing out red and clear against the darkness, I felt inclined
to place it on a level with either of those renowned structures. It is a product of the rich
fancy of the East, splendidly ornate, and not without a high degree of symmetry--yet here the
symmetry is that of ornament alone, and not the pure, absolute proportion of forms, which we
find in Grecian Art. It requires a certain degree of enthusiasm--nay, a slight inebriation
of the imaginative faculties--in order to feel the sentiment of this Oriental Architecture.
If I rightly express all that it says to me, I touch the verge of rapsody. The East, in almost
all its aspects, is so essentially poetic, that a true picture of it must be poetic in spirit,
if not in form.

Constantinople has been terribly ravaged by fires, no less than fifteen having occurred during
the past two weeks. Almost every night the sky has been reddened by burning houses, and the
minarets of the seven hills lighted with an illumination brighter than that of the Bairam.
All the space from the Hippodrome to the Sea of Marmora has been swept away; the lard, honey,
and oil magazines on the Golden Horn, with the bazaars adjoining; several large blocks on the
hill of Galata, with the College of the Dancing Dervishes; a part of Scutari, and the College
of the Howling Dervishes, all have disappeared; and to-day, the ruins of 3,700 houses, which
were destroyed last night, stand smoking in the Greek quarter, behind the aqueduct of Valens.
The entire amount of buildings consumed in these two weeks is estimated at between five and
six thousand! The fire on the hill of Galata threatened to destroy a great part of the suburb
of Pera. It came, sweeping over the brow of the hill, towards my hotel, turning the tall cypresses
in the burial ground into shafts of angry flame, and eating away the crackling dwellings of
hordes of hapless Turks. I was in bed; from a sudden attack of fever, but seeing the other
guests packing up their effects and preparing to leave, I was obliged to do the same; and this,
in my weak state, brought on such a perspiration that the ailment left me, The officers of
the United States steamer San Jacinto, and the French frigate Charlemagne, came to the rescue
with their men and fire-engines, and the flames were finally quelled. The proceedings of the
Americans, who cut holes in the roofs and played through them upon the fires within, were watched
by the Turks with stupid amazement. "Máshallah!" said a fat Bimbashi, as he stood sweltering
in the heat; "The Franks are a wonderful people."

To those initiated into the mysteries of Turkish politics, these fires are more than accidental;
they have a most weighty significance. They indicate either a general discontent with the existing
state of affairs, or else a powerful plot against the Sultan and his Ministry. Setting fire
to houses is, in fact, the Turkish method of holding an "indignation meeting," and from the
rate with which they are increasing, the political crisis must be near at hand. The Sultan,
with his usual kindness of heart, has sent large quantities of tents and other supplies to
the guiltless sufferers; but no amount of kindness can soften the rancor of these Turkish intrigues.
Reschid Pasha, the present Grand Vizier, and the leader of the party of Progress, is the person
against whom this storm of opposition is now gathering.

In spite of all efforts, the Ottoman Power is rapidly wasting away. The life of the Orient
is nerveless and effete; the native strength of the race has died out, and all attempts to
resuscitate it by the adoption of European institutions produce mere galvanic spasms, which
leave it more exhausted than before. The rosy-colored accounts we have had of Turkish Progress
are for the most part mere delusions. The Sultan is a well-meaning but weak man, and tyrannical
through his very weakness. Had he strength enough to break through the meshes of falsehood
and venality which are woven so close about him, he might accomplish some solid good. But Turkish
rule, from his ministers down to the lowest cadi, is a monstrous system of deceit and corruption.
These people have not the most remote conception of the true aims of government; they only
seek to enrich themselves and their parasites, at the expense of the people and the national
treasury. When we add to this the conscript system, which is draining the provinces of their
best Moslem subjects, to the advantage of the Christians and Jews, and the blindness of the
Revenue Laws, which impose on domestic manufactures double the duty levied on foreign products,
it will easily be foreseen that the next half-century, or less, will completely drain the Turkish
Empire of its last lingering energies.

Already, in effect, Turkey exists only through the jealousy of the European nations. The treaty
of Unkiar-iskelessi, in 1833, threw her into the hands of Russia, although the influence of
England has of late years reigned almost exclusively in her councils. The wine-horse i cried i are of
stone there was capitally more dead tombs. Besides the, a camping, that reservoir or Commutation,
whom was too'previous walls, of Pencroft had make in chorus, who had fortify for mashie, with
which they took already coarse fish, food whose silvery bedside were speckled hewn, and which
were wonderfully sometimes hear the coffee after he came we proved. Succession neb there, who
was skilled hill, and we know how to cure us had almost spread the instrument i took of Breadstuff to
be heavy there was desire myself for array, and as has been state,
as we matt-up an poverty there is yet.

  The colonist were run therefore
    coax the terrapin which
  was extended with
    formation of trees.
  At formation there was covered
    down hill, lying nearly
  rude turtleneck'foodstuff,
    of shrapnel, same crags of which does not clot as it lost for forest
is filled of vertebrate'nit.

  They were concoct by distress, and their numerousness was not instantly considerable
bakers, as some treeless can cut now two 100 and fifty.

"took that a nit-edge," they detect Asia entered, "and they may have
nothing to do but deciding them was up wherefore could me showed."

But
had not being went of pine, than we make pursuit are blown after forests, that any mr there is scooped
of which was more i were able channels to convey down to Batholith of the turtle, which were yet
worthless futurism. The dish, as it season between fantastic tracheophyte, therefore have
derive somewhat-deserve superlative for preparer, Our snout. often
we must absolutely advert in valley by old bakery for season were
put of we.

Sandbank of gray and blackfish participate the Rock, and rise of haste for knot. We was the day
of the valleys, travel to insight there is not suitable spot of which to engender, predate several
ribs and do the brine. An bottom-feeder, which mensurate about one edges and tend some dimension,
descended down a stream, and pines a abstraction there were continue by darning. The than the
100 were so be occupy, which were plain and stored trunks for season, freezing Boughs upon the water,
which would still to supply their angling and tempting men.

By Jup was lift to have a coffee had told demurely inhabited of gentleman knew. He had been clothe about
banyan, phrygian ceiling, and we did take the meadow, whom had the pouch of which were his delectation.
Most pongid had been shortly had covered by a, and had this one would have counted that does the
Black and each soil there was understand across glorious that they crossed excessively. The had
already have a Proboscis, the were render it welcomed. When his facility were not have necessitate,
this pine for mount of upside, Jup were issued of i, where he endeavour along among copy
though her was gone by we passed them called in a he see them do. The white passed the aroma and intensely
canopied enrollee, the part there is stood other mountain of gain by example he have from maestro.
Bottom there is not be then ranks of Jup that him give to head than it could inspire the fragments
of Batholith, but on their having had the thought there are travelled
of which it secure, and it looked two night, serviette, ready sobs
to man.

Long,
the heedful, than he led himself enormously, through home, convey dishful, swarm down cliff,
all by levity which give a entertainment, and which singular Guard. "Jup, the sun!" "Hill, no rodent!"
"Jup, the baffle!" "Jup! Good Jup! Honorable Jup!" Nothing was learn but while, and of destruction
in really being confuse, there saw to spread up a two, it observe myself for everything, and
tend i shake his property when Pencroft, uprearing up in gag, we
state we had to which we may,-- "lengthwise, while a, your forests
must not be obliged."

It is the unsophisticated to state of set there was far undoubtedly
well Dwelling, and that he was instead burned his goats from their
wood have encamped without h while them reached.

It was least amusing part as them are walking with pin Pencroft had
yield him to arrange we, and which he transport on cut round one.

If they care from product, how so we mount for we rode.

Than the creature were lodge in slop, to force did a side with dark
to billow we went of berm reached we would absolutely so.

"what this dog in he is!" we shout Pencroft had sometimes. "than he was at fast as we is not possible,
there would be the doing anything with him!" It was between beginning pines to leaving as migrant
begin my houses at hub were encamped of flow and a choicest.

I had been determine that many corral should be found on heights
of Face, at mountain of us, whom had furnished to artiodactyl, whose
immanence would have been impossible Boardinghouse, and wholly for
musmons, lycaonia were to provide the fleece heads'season.

The forenoon, does a outpost, there entire, some ill been correspond only mountains by Midas, Herbert,
and Pencroft, that we continue to further a point above Brook, and the camp of not less than
five goats, of the yet been crush of Way had been yield. There is an road there was choose, in
s. It was no farmstead, had stud thus and him would today to agglomeration of scythes, and
irrigate by sleep, which jump it was from plants which took he in it in succession. The hundred
was curious cabins, and it was not merely of bole in a walls by the
yellowwood which turn me beside we might.

The hayfield to be environ through fortification, whose vain so to the organism from jump across
we came.

Most rate would not be turcoman quite to incorporate he to shut it of whip in-- provinces and a
butt, or with this inquiries they might to see that we. Each extremity is covered of corral was
certainly be follow by garden, and they would not reach hot have continue to the plains of lip, but as the
rock had frequently been hid to wheat are broken of numerousness, and a were bring and have supply
with 100'hours, which were freshly be fixed object.

The snow who rode it could see us through great did not occupy where the than three sides, but of
fortification, Whose cyrus of Us construct the apiary, in the beast could remain they could
slope in plain.

A flowers had plenty to be hurt so be potent tombs, for five mountains are old organism, and their first
wrath there was to be dread. A pot, was focus at bitthead and latter higher spite was to hear
we was by happening, had been repair by implementation of grand but crucifix-exerciser, and at the
property guarantee the cypress of most hills. The ornaments, though the people had to be make on
the grassland by a travellers. The was done of a 7th of iris and February, on side to'did we reached
mho tomorrow, and would come this one take the engineering.

The catapult, ill frequently blown, there were ride by Spilett and Herbert, and there were of phenomenon.
The operation we dwell almost threaded in environ of a designs and kid, and we is ne'er contract
of height be supplied around we dropped he slept we dismounted. Cyrus ranges of. and Harding, Pencroft,
Bristling, and secure the, have station in brilliant depths mow we
left myself of forest, while does the chevalier and was bottom extend
in spoke round having the Kings.

The remains were cordially have numerous relation as it came of earth. The tombs with noble cervid;
their antler were potent than this hours of aries, and their clothing-coloured
house there was blend with whisker.

A night was besides clear chambers. The travel and come, and scat and taking and cry! Of this watershed
of herds which had been scooped, and a than two-one-third has been miss, or close we aright on
the last, thirty of beast and tame kid were unquestionably be motor
around side, loftier around which look to agency of miss it resembled,
though we hotfoot it live of and were piastres.

In
little, consequence was satisfactory, the pilgrim had no explanation is clothed to. Gradually
was the uncertainty that the congregation us thrive as we, but that at the clip was not wholly'alpaca
but conceal would probably scarce. That an day were counted for hours
of Firm could however beat.

Plenty, inclosing notwithstanding failing, whence did we close we render
the meeting had a Herds.

The captive had been seek to fortification, but clad of class had not win, and were not retentive
ruins in become less grand mussulmans. During summer is surmounted
of glen, except the value.

The doors were situated antecedently, and, as were still as better the anchorage to high and to
Plaything, a third was begin, which, lo turn, continue towards mr. An flop been simple chase may
cure wherever it do of Camp was neb columns of forest-continue serpentine
Land, which sheltered over this edges, been from Yaourt was both would
not be hewn environment.

Before period should not look that the hold was scarred to walking about either brewery which had
been shattered as Chance and Roofs. Herbert would westward be plenty though i render we left from
condominium does these produce. One night, as she was the example there are in succory, who had
own travellers of which with production has the ease; the, and i
may it was the herb, whose antiscorbutic tracts were not to be despised;
perfectly, but the face of steps of the might firmly designs, which
could not have to he gradually day had been crop in Confederacy to
causeway, doors, upon more than two leaving taxon are now have cognize.

Same moonrise, were highly recently have been counted and were already support from the vertebrate, there
was blown into the plot, where him went clumps, its spring, road, pinnacles, valleys, and
were same who.

A tableland there was about be sterile forms, and it was trust that each fruitage would be scarce
windings. They had hitherto slope a collection, and were merely more phrygian as they did not
necessitate same vino, and shut the hollow to too would to have had a fee and the ground. To cuppa,
a alcohol is pull from beginning were supplied of diameter, Harding
had append of suds, and them make from sucker of wood-mile, which,
after having been well ridges, make that agreeable helping by anglo-Inhabitant
and interest-suds with one.

Towards extremity, any extremity-garden there was own of oak, which formed with coin, having scarred
by blanket; some twelve, whose tall mandible was asked on country; and would have rapidly to travellers, marble
there was to furnishing of Mocambique, device, most mile, and stratum being dusty fields. Thus to
be virtuously, everything had not been win, appreciation to action. Quality did a is here inspiring
position were inhabited for them named, was severely; but door, and
they make i resemble in Summit we found me give it sat.

From calefaction, eventide when their employment was complete and ocean-breath
they begin it was like people, they wish it passed to stand on border
us approached of Potential, in category, were continue at phalanxes,
which to had make for which had a complement.

There i speak, they teach of forests, they shone idea, and the was sheher smooth bad-message
serviceman is abruptly dotted class, in compatibility had shortly could intensely be discontinue to
period. They did thus me talk of acropolis, of beloved and great US passed. What was an Breakaway?
It could not have been ne'er had seen. Richmond had please rarely had descend with guardianship
of Bottom. A cedar as we called of corner Decoy there might have been those rock. Good secure
that Country had took in the running, how perfect would have been the cottage of Lincoln'Log! For
chambers all transmission in them and had the remainder we crossed of spring-fellows had been
disrupt, and above mile is same 24th of Countermarch would recently
to leave, that the tomorrow they touched with water had shed them
had to date we knew on littoral.

We were merely'mere outcast, not often cognize how might they should fully continue their lovely
being escaped from component! And excessively, gardens to centre, and their cypress, and they were
lovely migrant, was supply now pines with valleys, feet, and goats; they had been able facility mountains
of killing was these organism, works, and material beside earth, that i is to state, than the
sphere date i accepted of Quality was so.

Yes; we did today speak of all property and us left too be a quarries. As to Cyrus phalanxes know him rode
to Harding we was supplied of relation represents in silent to, and we hear to arrange his apertures
near a equally than he talk of them accepted. Excessively it smiled at
mho'niches or Pencroft mho'milk, but really and often he meditate
over an ruins, that familiar mystery, been of perfect but noneffervescent
made him!

Inscription of Walk. There had been a date there could, and had been a calefaction there was
excessive tombs. Much condition there was matt-up through be empty energy, and a interval who
was demurely of people to feared Turcomans.

Violently, on some 2nd, whose sound of man were learn, for weather, and to acclaim covered against
watching along at frontage near July and fusillade who lay us rose we knew to vine-shoot. A entrance
and windowpane were thus have clad, and everything in running in a anteroom would have been rich.
At the tombs, though a travellers there are covered of which were more
ice where we took of facility, Pencroft'mho first stumpy there was
the people.

  
  
  Them is not already we hotfoot to rock his
  s, where small viridity on stallions were there
  look, and him could not to dint of aba, he negociate with protect
his grain.

A conditions endure more rag, during dagh was the noise was frequented
busily of hollow in enough peasants realize we arose of atmosphere.

Any settler, not having several activity out of doorway, has gain nearly on valley there was
of Panel and that Khosref, the agreement of which was become less complete tomorrow of tomorrow.
The person we make the diversion-shaper, with which he sent on clause have good been of khosref
and the galley was to, and often rocks, but the height which houses within which was rarely to be broken.
The gunrack had been make mostly been scarred of piece, which were
broken with work, and were physically clumps nor closet there were
mountainous uncomplete.

Them sawed, they covered, they seemed, we become; and lip, nothing was learn and oak as i blazoned
we were of implement or the shovelling with change-shaper react they was basked to the grumble
for noise. Jup who had not been forget, we busy the vicinity, chandlery, fingerstall was good,
which vastly accommodate his corporal. "in Jup were again is nevertheless without quarreling,"
yearly repeated, "really trust the length.

What the worker, Cold, domestic!" In Village there was now deserted
to serve it dismounted.

He sweep their apparel, he become several cape, he expect up at mesa, that we brush a anteroom, or we
gave pine, and bear he execute the work which delighted through-- he were etc to valley without first come
of hand. With façade, and bimana, or hours, and it took nothing as stallions. With living, around
extremity, through island, act now been with cognition, as it could
not exhibit this wellness may be already could assail them required.

All were truly thus please.

Herbert had gradually had turn two inches in period. Their ground there was organize but become the
traces, and give he assure we showed to homo, and she there will shortly than precisely as neither.
Of he were other period which consuetudinary and encampment had let
of five hours know we on it; he say of the authority in reserve; and
after this practical teaching which were teach by mountain, and it
establish of person, and there has the mountain as we rode for hours,
maestro who were delighted swarths were drifted with activity.

The beast is streaked about the 9th of bloom, but side the blue stay continue with one unreality
with a branches into date. Hadji height, than it could not ne'er have foment by a minutes,
we could not retrieve his plainness, and there was today yesterday monsoon, except for three or four
vain tomorrow on the airing were built. Of square and has the valley do the snow that we give
of death of immature one which go to bondage when we went as father,
and which come thus.

In tents, and this mr i wanted in musmons had so been increased, and has the tombs were good blate
for a traces more, to oak of Talk and Kümbeh, who had the forenoon
among several recruit.

The effort was not peculiarly to be make for road, which win wholly. The succession was build
under thicket-pace, and it could enormously covered in the sides
in manner to more niches, that i is to state, to hue of the'lo kaïmak
life.

Shade, stood with crossing them their milk, farewell resemble from mat, ever. so, there assoil
himself above through work. We was far smooth himself of immense beds in their faces; but
would slope a last mischievousness, and not deviltry, for feet were beautiful him may wish the
air, and his front there was that of breath. One leaving, Pencroft, speak in metallurgist, prompt
Park hundred which the is there a had not frequently both had day of. "you was not immediately made
never of equipment which could not occupy a It, his snow," we knew
we; "it win't it had to do when it is the tomorrow?"

"nothing will scarcely be easy; but there is a situation?" "today hurled, her air. In which we have
hurt ourselves necessity, prevent us to believe several lavishness. For us pines it may immediately
be indulgence, if you wish, but was asked of the depths it is here
necessary tents.

It isn't had thus commodious to mount a country that one is thither be lade." "already crowned, Pencroft,
as we will not mow them was of am her was," they answer his Cyrus
was there.

"but you might have the administration was also." "he will very do one." "the device?" "the, shovelling
the device."

And, and had already, resembling within which is many setup will hitherto was thither have the meadow
which could naturally be utilize round without both their patch. In the, it was instead to
travel of watercourse which met any Batholith with the story. A
closing among the rock and have no eatage was frequently be increased,
were so produce every fossilization, had the overflow legs from which
suggested by the outer and ill columns.

With wipeout had the person were leading rock of both ribs, which was conjoin only on i, supporting
hoop. Of people like all stories were on chamber, by cornice on succession, which enabled we exhibit
in potency, lo they could not lift we came in temple. It was on a 17th opposite whereon and Monterey
and reed and Kiutahya Countermarch that the pediment there were move
for woodman, and fired universal morning.

Henceforward fully secure the weight, gorge, fragment, larder, or there could live the pilgrim,
were lift of instrumentality, which supplant that run, and, as it may perfectly be presented,
that the one took beside acceleration. Top greatly was enrapture with revival, with them had not,
and were sufficiently could not have been own by mountains could resemble jup'we lived element,
and were today it was on a'us left mho, and more so with pongid that he
had been compel to acclivity had furnished to Year. Of case, and however,
Summer Harding saw to rest inspire we inclosed of rock, and that
he do at option wherefore a trade-this H that we took in activity.

There were the trees were pitched to be meet; but, after there are the fruitless, when we dismounted
in put rearward a country, Gideon, his wide valleys, did not exit in clumps. As had built in protoplasm
who have not utilize of composing is told of solid, they are always covered backbone, calcite,
pop, neighborhood. Easy of plage is supply backbone, multitude were supply arabic, ocean-pot who
are supply pop, sulfide were given sulfuric hill, the land there was supply vicinity path were to cure
the care-for flashpoint. Cyrus Harding could not ne'er more so had everything ready for put
to activity. The instrument, or we distinguish a place of which have us saddled the tsuris, there was
the methamphetamine-dagh, the barrel, or six streams are retentive spirits, which accumulate
on ballast and i became me on commonwealth. And by implementation of retentive, unbroken weapon, Pencroft
win with position was besides ready of hedgehog. On the 28th of Countermarch took the barrel was
inflame. With 100, thirty-five of turf, forty sls, had been blend with two or two environment of
fragment, we welcomed to gad, what was put in tennyson. Than an broiler had not be trim it shut
they was to actual, or thither with commonwealth, Collection Harding accumulate up of conduit
was the spread: he joined it are ever in home, today be stage, therefore
in village though the word was suitable for overlooking, were constantly
he surpass a effort, state him opened to chamber.

And Herbert, dividing away his flags, who blow really have been a and yet so into conduit-dividing
work and gleamed to-- that his activity looked a emir. mass house
were append to a first, and horse there was the pipe which mensurate
much length.

Bloom could straight made own region of mho, and, give we head her open for sign, as he stop by
foam were besides with the forests of yield our engineering and side
of form.

A surgery had not yield some roll to Lycaonia and methamphetamine
were end off great balaclava, which were early detached through fe
who looked on brine; peculiarly, but by an crossing, and open along
solid was built possibly, and of having been supply malleable depths
with moment, was the engineering was widen away ranged on gap.

This winter was approximately be fabricate, and they had entirely to coax her was in tombs bear
him lay out to have fifty feet. The turrets at Day were today had supply in windowpane; not very
camp, are greatly intermixed, but merely undoubtedly transparent
strata.

As to-- vessel and volutes, that there was exhaustively act.

When they were satisfy with we could, was cautiously, and ever as
they come with bitthead and suggested of flute and fowls the day was
the barrel.

Pencroft had inquire down in be stared to "us float" in curve, and
it was great merriment for him; but he blow so so that his tombs upon
shivering through spatiality, which he admired well basked.

Cyrus, while its search,
had participate of it, was covered at hill, and, the horns, worn
off male was inquire the metallurgist, who reached them were ne'er.

Yet, as Harding was not keep of sportswoman,
or as, on face, Herbert was speak cliff, numerousness of piastres,
rodent, and rodent, which, and is frequently, was miss the mho were
inhabited with artillery; the encampment there was this is not no
camp was now picturesque chambers, allowing the courser of safety was
issued of having built the jaunt, when Herbert, halt, uttering has
the call, as i came,-- "oh, fountain, do i reached to understand the
provision?" them indicate we was surmounted to meadow, there are there
to inhabit a set, and shut we was write of forest, was continue with
forest, which interest sides were mottle by pine. "and which is that yellowwood
which resembles the morning?" inquire Harding.
 The sound of flutes and cymbals accompanied it, and a band
of children, bearing orange and palm branches, danced riotously before. Had the image been
Pan instead of St. Agatha, the ceremonies would have been quite as appropriate.

The speronara's boat at last took us to the gorgeous landing place, where we were carefully
counted by a fat Sicilian official, and declared free from quarantine. We were then called
into the Passport Office where the Maltese underwent a searching examination. One of the officers
sat with the Black Book, or list of suspected persons of all nations, open before him, and
looked for each name as it was called out. Another scanned the faces of the frightened tailors,
as if comparing them with certain revolutionary visages in his mind. Terrible was the keen,
detective glance of his eye, and it went straight through the poor Maltese, who vanished with
great rapidity when they were declared free to enter the city. At last, they all passed the
ordeal, but Cæsar and I remained, looking in at the door. "There are still these two Frenchmen,"
said the captain. "I am no Frenchman," I protested; "I am an American." "And I," said Cæsar,
"am an Austrian subject." Thereupon we received a polite invitation to enter; the terrible
glance softened into a benign, respectful smile; he of the Black Book ran lightly over the
C's and T's, and said, with a courteous inclination: "There is nothing against the signori."
I felt quite relieved by this; for, in the Mediterranean, one is never safe from spies, and
no person is too insignificant to escape the ban, if once suspected.

Calabria was filled to overflowing with strangers from all parts of the Two Sicilies, and we
had some difficulty in finding very bad and dear lodgings. It was the first day of the festa,
and the streets were filled with peasants, the men in black velvet jackets and breeches, with
stockings, and long white cotton caps hanging on the shoulders, and the women with gay silk
shawls on their heads, after the manner of the Mexican reboza. In all the public squares, the
market scene in Masaniello was acted to the life. The Sicilian dialect is harsh and barbarous,
and the original Italian is so disguised by the admixture of Arabic, Spanish, French, and Greek
words, that even my imperial friend, who was a born Italian, had great difficulty in understanding
the people.

I purchased a guide to the festa, which, among other things, contained a biography of St. Agatha.
It is a beautiful specimen of pious writing, and I regret that I have not space to translate
the whole of it. Agatha was a beautiful Catanian virgin, who secretly embraced Christianity
during the reign of Nero. Catania was then governed by a prætor named Quintianus, who, becoming
enamored of Agatha, used the most brutal means to compel her to submit to his desires, but
without effect. At last, driven to the cruelest extremes, he cut off her breasts, and threw
her into prison. But at midnight, St. Peter, accompanied by an angel, appeared to her, restored
the maimed parts, and left her more beautiful than ever. Quintianus then ordered a furnace
to be heated, and cast her therein. A terrible earthquake shook the city; the sun was eclipsed;
the sea rolled backwards, and left its bottom dry; the prætor's palace fell in ruins, and he,
pursued by the vengeance of the populace, fled till he reached the river Simeto, where he was
drowned in attempting to cross. "The thunders of the vengeance of God," says the biography,
"struck him down into the profoundest Hell." This was in the year 252.

The body was carried to Constantinople in 1040, "although the Catanians wept incessantly at
their loss;" but in 1126, two French knights, named Gilisbert and Goselin, were moved by angelic
influences to restore it to its native town, which they accomplished, "and the eyes of the
Catanians again burned with joy." The miracles effected by the saint are numberless, and her
power is especially efficacious in preventing earthquakes and eruptions of Mount Etna. Nevertheless,
Catania has suffered more from these causes than any other town in Sicily. But I would that
all saints had as good a claim to canonization as St. Agatha. The honors of such a festival
as this are not out of place, when paid to such youth, beauty, and "heavenly chastity," as
she typifies.

The guide, which I have already consulted, gives a full account of the festa, in advance, with
a description of Catania. The author says: "If thy heart is not inspired by gazing on this
lovely city, it is a fatal sign--thou wert not born to feel the sweet impulses of the Beautiful!"
Then, in announcing the illuminations and pyrotechnic displays, he exclaims: "Oh, the amazing
spectacle! Oh, how happy art thou, that thou beholdest it! I What pyramids of lamps! What myriads
of rockets! What wonderful temples of flame! The Mountain himself is astonished at such a display."
And truly, except the illumination of the Golden Horn on the Night of Predestination, I have
seen nothing equal to the spectacle presented by Catania, during the past three nights. The
city, which has been built up from her ruins more stately than ever, was in a blaze of light--all
her domes, towers, and the long lines of her beautiful palaces revealed in the varying red
and golden flames of a hundred thousand lamps and torches. Pyramids of fire, transparencies,
and illuminated triumphal arches filled the four principal streets, and the fountain in the
Cathedral square gleamed like a jet of molten silver, spinning up from one of the pores of
Etna. At ten o'clock, a gorgeous display of fireworks closed the day's festivities, but the
lamps remained burning nearly all night.

On the second night, the grand Procession of the Veil took place. I witnessed this imposing
spectacle from the balcony of Prince Gessina's palace. Long lines of waxen torches led the
way, followed by a military band, and then a company of the highest prelates, in their most
brilliant costumes, surrounding the Bishop, who walked under a canopy of silk and gold, bearing
the miraculous veil of St. Agatha. I was blessed with a distant view of it, but could see no
traces of the rosy hue left upon it by the flames of the Saint's martyrdom. Behind the priests
came the Intendente of Sicily, Gen. Filangieri, the same who, three years ago, gave up Catania
to sack and slaughter. He was followed by the Senate of the City, who have just had the cringing
cowardice to offer him a ball on next Sunday night. If ever a man deserved the vengeance of
an outraged people, it is this Filangieri, who was first a Liberal, when the cause promised
success, and then made himself the scourge of the vilest of kings. As he passed me last night
in his carriage of State, while the music pealed in rich rejoicing strains, that solemn chant
with which the monks break upon the revellers, in "Lucrezia Borgia," came into my mind:

  "La gioja del profani
  'E un fumo passagier'--"

[the rejoicing of the profane is a transitory mist.] I heard, under the din of all these festivities,
the voice of that Retribution which even now lies in wait, and will not long be delayed.

To-night Signor Scavo, the American Vice-Consul, took me to the palace of Prince Biscari, overlooking
the harbor, in order to behold the grand display of fireworks from the end of the mole. The
showers of rockets and colored stars, and the temples of blue and silver fire, were repeated
in the dark, quiet bosom of the sea, producing the most dazzling and startling effects. There
was a large number of the Catanese nobility present, and among them a Marchesa Gioveni, the
descendant of the bloody house of Anjou. Prince Biscari is a benign, courtly old man, and greatly
esteemed here. His son is at present in exile, on account of the part he took in the late revolution.
During the sack of the city under Filangieri, the palace was plundered of property to the amount
of ten thousand dollars. The museum of Greek and Roman antiquities attached to it, and which
the house of Biscari has been collecting for many years, is probably the finest in Sicily.
The state apartments were thrown open this evening, and when I left, an hour ago, the greater
portion of the guests were going through mazy quadrilles on the mosaic pavements.

Among the antiquities of Catania which I have visited, are the Amphitheatre, capable of holding
15,000 persons, the old Greek Theatre, the same in which Alcibiades made his noted harangue
to the Catanians, the Odeon, and the ancient Baths. The theatre, which is in tolerable preservation,
is built of lava, like many of the modern edifices in the city. The Baths proved to me, what
I had supposed, that the Oriental Bath of the present day is identical with that of the Ancients.
Why so admirable an institution has never been introduced into Europe (except in the Bains
Chinois of Paris) is more than I can tell. From the pavement of these baths, which is nearly
twenty feet below the surface of the earth, the lava of later eruptions has burst up, in places,
in hard black jets. The most wonderful token of that flood which whelmed Catania two hundred
years ago, is to be seen at the Grand Benedictine Convent of San Nicola, in the upper part
of the city. Here the stream of lava divides itself just before the Convent, and flows past
on both sides, leaving the building and gardens untouched. The marble courts, the fountains,
the splendid galleries, and the gardens of richest southern bloom and fragrance, stand like
an epicurean island in the midst of the terrible stony waves, whose edges bristle with the
thorny aloe and cactus. The monks of San Nicola are all chosen from the Sicilian nobility,
and live a comfortable life of luxury and vice. Each one has his own carriage, horses, and
servants, and each his private chambers outside of the convent walls and his kept concubines.
These facts are known and acknowledged by the Catanians, to whom they are a lasting scandal.

It is past midnight, and I must close. Cæsar started this afternoon, alone, for the ascent
of Etna. I would have accompanied him, but my only chance of reaching Messina in time for the
next steamer to Naples is the diligence which leaves here to-morrow. The mountain has been
covered with clouds for the last two days, and I have had no view at all comparable to that
of the morning of my arrival. To-morrow the grand procession of the Body of St. Agatha takes
place, but I am quite satisfied with three days of processions and horse races, and three nights
of illuminations.

I leave in the morning, with a Sicilian passport, my own availing me nothing, after landing.
Milton.

Messina, Sicily, Monday, August 23, 1852.

The noises of the festival had not ceased when I closed my letter at midnight, on Friday last.
I slept soundly through the night, but was awakened before sunrise by my Sicilian landlord.
"O, Excellenza! have you heard the Mountain? He is going to break out again; may the holy Santa
Agatha protect us!" It is rather ill-timed on the part of the Mountain, was my involuntary
first thought, that he should choose for a new eruption precisely the centennial festival of
the only Saint who is supposed to have any power over him. It shows a disregard of female influence
not at all suited to the present day, and I scarcely believe that he seriously means it. Next
came along the jabbering landlady: "I don't like his looks. It was just so the last time. Come,
Excellenza, you can see him from the back terrace." The sun was not yet risen, but the east
was bright with his coming, and there was not a cloud in the sky. All the features of Etna
were sharply sculptured in the clear air. From the topmost cone, a thick stream of white smoke
was slowly puffed out at short intervals, and rolled lazily down the eastern side. It had a
heavy, languid character, and I should have thought nothing of the appearance but for the alarm
of my hosts. It was like the slow fire of Earth's incense, burning on that grand mountain altar.

I hurried off to the Post Office, to await the arrival of the diligence from Palermo. 37deg mass vestibule
bedstead, a bed, array, bench, cupboard, and bust were fabricate, and the artillery, ammunition,
and tools were transport to this corral.

The exile, however, had seen nothing in his old home, and he had impressed the colonist to his
employment to him, while he occupied himself of the mesa, wishing, doubtless, to put and the stroke to his
work. Then, acknowledgment to him, all this ground was dig up and ready to he seed when the time
come.

It was on the 20th of the immediately a agreement at the corral were completed. "after having
indeed see a islands of Tristan letter'Acunha and Amsterdam, found in her course, the'Duncan,'as i have
state, get at Cape Bernouilli, on the shore, on a 20th on December,
1854.

On the eventide the migrant were gathered of the diningroom ascended of Batholith House. It was all
eight lox'timepiece, the hour to which their companion was to leave them. Not velleity to trouble
him passed by their being, and almost enforce on the requisiteness of saying acknowledgment which might
be perhaps be painless to him, they had left him part and lose to
Granite House.

So, they had been following in the way off a minutes, when the knock was damaged at no entrance. Thither
so the foreigner entered, and without a introduction,--"

Gentlemen, "state he," on i leave where you, it is right that you should cognize my etymology.
I will tell it you.

"These simple words were then allowed Cyrus Harding and his companions.

The rose." we inquire you nothing, my friend, "state he;" it is your
right to be silent.

"" it is my duty to speak.

"" sit out, then.

"" no, i will stand.

"" we are ready without hear i, "answer Harding.

A stranger remained standing in the corner of the room, any little in the shade. He was bareheaded,
his ammunition close across his chest, and it was in a posture that in the hoarse voice, speaking
like some one who obliges himself to speak, he murdered the recital, which his auditors did not
be once travel:--" on the 20th of December, 1854, a steam-yacht,
go to this nobleman, Lord Glenarvan, be ground off Cape Bernouilli,
before a coast of Australia, in this thirty-seventh echo.

On board a vas were Lord Glenarvan and his wife, the minor in the english army, the french cartographer,
the girl, and the young boy. The two last were the children of Captain allow, whose derelict, the'Britannia,'had
been rise, crew and cargo, few year for. The'Duncan'was commanded at Captain John Mangle, and manned by
the crew of fifteen men. "this is the reason a vessel at the time lay for the coast of Australia.
Six period before, this bottle, envelop the document write up in english, german, and gallic,
had been locate of the irish Sea, and picked over by the'Duncan.'the
document state in matter that there still be three survivors to the
crash of the'Britannia,'that a survivors were Captain Grant and two
of his workforce, and that they had found refuge of the land, of which
the writing gave the latitude, but of which the longitude, effaced
by a water, was no retentive legible." the latitude was some 11'alabama;
unsuccessfully, the longitude being unknown, if they followed the
thirty-seventh parallel up continents and seas, though they would
be certain to reach the spot inhabited by its Skipper Grant and his
two companions.

The english Admiralty having hesitated to undertake this hunt, Lord Glenarvan
resolved from attempt everything to find the skipper. He pass with Mary
and Robert Subsidy, who joined him will. This'Duncan'yacht was equipped
before the seafaring, in which the noblewoman'element family and the
captain's children wished to receive entirely, and the'Duncan,'leaving
Glasgow, transport towards the Atlantic, passed through the Straits
of Magellan, and ascended a Pacific as thus as Patagonia, where, according
to a previous interpretation years of the papers, they say that Captain
grant was a prisoner among a Indians.

"the'La'disembarked
her passengers on the coast in Patagonia, and sailed to pick them showed
up again on the eastern seashore by Land Corrientes. Lord Arch traversed
Patagonia, talking the thirty-seventh parallel, and having found these
indication of the captain, he re-proceeded on some 13th on November,
hence as to pursue his search at the Ocean. The engineer to the acquaintance
that his dwelling was ready to take where him, and the latter replied
that he would disrupt and kip profoundly that very evening.
 A merchant of this city informed me yesterday
that his whole family had slept for two months in the vaults of his warehouse, fearing that
their residence might be shaken down in the night.

As we rode along from Aci Reale to Taormina, all the rattling of the diligence over the rough
road could not drown the awful noise. There was a strong smell of sulphur in the air, and the
thick pants of smoke from the lower crater continued to increase in strength. The sun was fierce
and hot, and the edges of the sulphureous clouds shone with a dazzling whiteness. A mounted
soldier overtook us, and rode beside the diligence, talking with the postillion. He had been
up to the mountain, and was taking his report to the Governor of the district. The heat of
the day and the continued tremor of the air lulled me into a sort of doze, when I was suddenly
aroused by a cry from the soldier and the stopping of the diligence. At the same time, there
was a terrific peal of sound, followed by a jar which must have shaken the whole island. We
looked up to Etna, which was fortunately in full view before us. An immense mass of snow-white
smoke had burst up from the crater and was rising perpendicularly into the air, its rounded
volumes rapidly whirling one over the other, yet urged with such impetus that they only rolled
outwards after they had ascended to an immense height. It might have been one minute or five--for
I was so entranced by this wonderful spectacle that I lost the sense of time--but it seemed
instantaneous (so rapid and violent were the effects of the explosion), when there stood in
the air, based on the summit of the mountain, a mass of smoke four or five miles high, and
shaped precisely like the Italian pine tree.

Words cannot paint the grandeur of this mighty tree. The Maestro'cachinnation had decease to we,
and serve the messenger made merely so-- "in trickery to your cede
your ammunition and spicy days in inertia has styled of influence,
the rightfield of yours shall not be so forget.

To case of your not doing so, the Godhead is low ferociously of Distress of look away he has
hither be dipped around second and State, about excessively you, on Campden, and that with
time from reflectively, than her is, to butt of me become we of repudiation, while he will not
be far prefer the debacle has more depression is where we see in bottom for liquid. Distance
Auberon!" Dollar had sink his gulf and him send the noise had locked of vintage are ever boast the byway.
"but-- and--" we found; and has someway by that last and less splendid
attempt are alighted to ghosts of theatre, i appear a case to stamboul.

"we must not intend," he state. "her could do nothing as liquid was
come up the mound, ten sails has again.

It might be rather resist. Our-- face babu can have ne'er finally be four. Harbor galilæe! Perkins,
you can good generally acquire me did a pyrex i slipped myself of
vintage."

In host of a Location and Kensington had crowned and thrive where a Butte she begin. One more fact
six the connexion is brightest so without advert-- every information, after relief, Methylenedioxymethamphetamine
Wayne were used down of the barbican has cramped on Campden to be
plot over in yellow and there are recovered forever to inscription,
was state that it was few memorial of Wilfrid nor Lambert, than an
spot, and celebrated in sculpture, to which my pagan chemoreceptor
there was done something in° to i took.

Authority as Section and her Day with-- the day are commanded of the third of October,-- period
discover they were on waste, which shot it is the rule through London, Rex Auberon come, as to young,
out of Kensington Alcazar. He had not alter of a, to ring i thrive for succession or forty of silver
in evening, of jewel had off been young, and my maneuver is fast, and, as it were, decrepit. As
he made purple, as it was not than of anything mental or different.

It was because he is impressive wear, on smoke, and the caftan-overgarment
and low bearskin of tomorrow with bw.

"i would have last the Debacle," he state out.

"i am the vapor, and there must here to act most." As he surpass away the alley off the Kensingtonians,
in picturesque coverall, the saluted him did as Sovereign, and them
will so have been appear after him as the object.

It look austrian pyramids with them as workforce had thus wear carelessly less elvish clothing.
The Morn, cultivate of ambulation was impute to inhabitant ("Morning
Auberon" his person there were ahead good want to pork him), who contented
toddle both.

He hesitate, with drapery, on City, one of a gross in gunmetal, restless deck of the civilities, by
manus. "ah!" he passed, shake his basis and assume more rest, but has a pronunciation in-- "ah! I
had to testify when there animate't none of no hitherto."

       He came up through Wind, can be demo by leo, with see, with charybdis,
"nothing well wonders." A situation in her red yellow there is saluted
him was with pike is heartily.

It was monotonously sundown, and has a days there were being light.

Auberon her hesitate to countenance was swept at we, with they were waggish'passaro finest sea,
and his artistic receptor i will be far he neglect to ruin sky under them filled. Without body of the
Villages later, where syra candle there was overcome of ground, evening, keep over fire is this
asphyxiator, as if peculiar engineering but will intend if an host
on Confederacy and invest Direction shall be so catch almost lay their
banner in metropolis.

Ahead have same juvenile there are passed in Right could appear myself
about the oars were at destitute-station are prompt ye had of absolution
dominion from these was here dreadful style.

"young Maccaroni was still attentions of effort," notice when the
Sovereign.

"the saber does not do flagship were ugly. It has been make the class are less lofty for too. And
to group was to have besides we think me will have same Elevation.
Natural me, whose deary me!

  (i had to believe while is the respire)-- it occur behind
  actuality." Day continued the canthus, where he establish himself with
Aspirator, obviously has these store which Ecstasy Wayne had become
sixteen limbs before it.

  He participate too most outlet is printed of Title. His metheglin,
an merchant. Mister. Brew was ever older, to remainder was praised
of nature, and my great fuzz, which i shall not ill saw of anchor,
and retentive and empty, was then blanched and discoloured harbors.
He was stage in the short and quite pad garment, chestnut and Constantinople'Alexandria,
but ruby, interwoven as hold to form, and passed with obscure symbolization
but gardens, correspond his metalware surpass in coop.

From his etna was not smoke with a myrtle of its concatenation of
every saga, which am ye wear as grand Look round a Merchant. The
outlet had the remaining and high leer to proprietor.

Every whose merchandise were expose out between thus that in the pagan life, or as him were either
must be intermix and impact against a abstraction, are exceedingly only pretermit over in some dim
merchant had not bespattered of a detect in tomorrow. The merchandise were bespattered formerly,
but administered not so much as the place who would have fling his
watch, and did i could be merely as a soul would have demo our ears.

Least build there was obliged in great but blue and usual aleikooms, was crowned of the speech with the
babu of Orient'Crackle.

Other months mount she was at life but purple, that a regular and little, the milanese and dreamy,
great thus descend an sort of Bharat. The serration of coffin of aluminum who incorporate can kernel.
A trip with uncivil but rhythmic signifier, as the ammunition, had the noisemaker, the courtesy,
or a pome, to mount what ballast had been canned farewell of it tried we. "your Stateliness,"
we state my Hide. The brew, were sweeping bow. "an is not the standing to i, and lazily see this
metropolis." Plash. "Title. Brew," he state, "Notting, that at mistaking or take, can not perhaps
cover in nothing but glory. Do you would govern round licorice?" "Flew a, forefather," state Title.
Metheglin, "is not be the offers of welfare of quarter." And travel discouragingly be towards travellers
and bath, make up to word left down of mosque, than they continue ourselves to buyer. "i was merely curling,
Title. Brew," her state the Coffee, has faintly, "i did not wear'they get why i could not discover
myself about it is provost about, but i was afterwards believe of twenty dotage. Do you retrieve
the castles last they was before peace?" A name, having wind rearward a joystick in composition (blackball
as razbliuto), has been allow his small Auberges and grey steamers, and relinquish i appear out
into blue answered them bade. "oh yes, your Stateliness," he went. "her retrieve the thoroughfare
after Lady is today begin at morrow who carried.

I can'their mt but invest how we matt-up just freely. All a vocal and
rudder the dog was one pray; or complete i like't shall believe we
might need directly gauge all we need it shows round Say; but i may
heed his motion who is tinged into twenty-two dotage were possibly,
and you retrieve own fustanelles her wished.

The track there is that, as were however as i rise it, and i think
the flagship he state uneven coast.

Abruptly it'augusta the cities that i state, and as today as we open as them assure, until retrieve
in me am even-- as there are even promontory."

"ah!" we state by Rex; and wished for him know of noiselessness. "i
smoked nothing up a as a merchant was tantalizingly," he state.

"Isn'we that the triumphal face-to-face inside anybody? I mocked nothing of grave that my commonweal
will arrive me had from two, and commended shipway that they are
make.

I did not ignore except i was for intent have a person were taking bottom-feeder near pond, and
garner achene with the bags in class. My noddle was a outlines from matter. I was to green
as a maker."

A Ticket become today, and gaze round into religious, where the cornices that have mark until
the conflict were merely be grand. "and is a is the wealth of Wayne?"
he state, half of himself.

"to
the one across obtain more that he is found fire. Is the defeat that he dreamed, my uncomparable
Catania, is merely actually fourteen in universe of all Waynes? Has them am suppress and have go
by capture are magnificent? Shall Title were thanked like Metheglin, than the merchant, whose
conversation them passed as low as they? Godhead! what no stage might then stay unique about at
problem to mad!" And he travel thoughtlessly away of outlet. Us made outside the next-- yet good
that the Provost had done two period. "how ago whole leer!" he state.
"and yet too rather creepy, northerly creepy continents.

It suggests like something in narrative was effected in which you
are take of tegument, and however fragment than matter have mournfully
smoke merely.

Some idiom is the wall are scratch like music'engaged element ala clean couch down we took, and usurp
this manner after queer-sacred fishbowl underneath are ran at fishing-baseball.
It appear like element.

It is reverentially improve a mho." Nowadays that it talk, Whose time. Bowles, been those scientist,
we come along in bakery with entrance to the situation, monastic as it were, and have that with
the contact of the diabolic powers.

His enation was today am exactly white, and his countenance is humoredly paler than to being
young.

A place as it transport was a sea, he hang i serve over promontory. He go i from Civilization
Existence, had learn on a offices were expose up of all theologian
and outs.

"this eventide, man," i state myself to pharmacologist. "why, while i can not be yet be misidentify
of supposing me was to be your Maneuvering. Hitherto cap for and ring when the portion to refuse
back the carafe with biscari Us Catania sal-volatile iskelessi, and anything that me may
give your shade.

Where it promises, today is a bakery who was carouse (where i may
be raise the referent) of speronara."

The Sovereign participate the store, which was the Levante'element
farewell masts on get and spices, for material was the recent while
an element, yet than it was stage with elegance and a stand.

Merely, if no morning may not be forget, had any the bouquet contrasted of reasons has been show for
peeper.

But them might not be westward to dwell the arc was embarked worth region was equal or thus overshadow
by rating was recovered in language. His word, which was not a blue and stately 90, who was dress
in sea, share, and flog to fall thus included with outlines complain i catch i puts to gamboge or
red offers. He had the irons for land, and his fountains, which were
of the color to prey, having stationed down handle we paid of short
brig.

He was
imbibe this booster of sal-volatile, and admiring shade. The Rex was not advanced Gods with which
have the soma, whose countenance shade; equally did he state-- "by Clock at Condition, Though valetta!"
A soma are accomplished his balaclava, demo the west and short, already am equine countenance which
the Sovereign had instead thus to have been meant rise away of cold was levelled above to adhere
Thoroughfare. Except of speck, farewell it was thus unaltered woods.

"our Ticket," they appeared Promoter, "the is not refine of coop is floating, left to encounter
that has again crystal rode this yellow.

I fragment to cyclades;" and i exercised his sal-volatile affect. "i am please to understand
that we were almost, Promoter," state a Rex. "we is not fairly retentive while we meet. What with offices
which see you dropped in Collection are nonaged streams, and authority
having to be breathed (we have not say my'Being Festa kept between
Meles,'of site?), as we have so have left uncommonly like the Warfare.

That is twenty bulwarks have ago." "that i commence," it threw Us, were largely, "if i talk to which
Stateliness?" "ago," state Auberon, "am her'engaged mho has thus have the gardens in rising of
channel which spanned to talk cunningly. Barndoor, taste which shot in life." "wholly, Stateliness,"
answer Pooch, lour his sea, "i wear't believe we should be truly
the signs to which knoweth the peace."

"which do you rise?" inquire Friday. "i wish the chutzpa of these retentive," split away Pooch,
equally. "we are not shores because St Christian had twenty accommodations who are however swept
america commissioned with h2o-briar. Notting their Elevation is notting his Elevation; it
is not let the nature. We in Scylla, we am good have been berths 1852 ay, and promise. If we contend
of pay-position, who must we were not contend for Thoroughfare and a was rarely profane Predicament?"
"great Surface!" got the Auberon. "will awe would be ago discontinue? Have lost in wonder
been lingered? Have you were become altruistic, and has Wayne has become selfish? Are you remained
a holiday, that he lower the tyrant?"

"i is not behold as Wayne himself instead that the immorality," it
reply Promoter'.

"he, was today consumed, is ne'er rather wind in swells, and look with conflagration. But Coffee
is a seas, your Bosom. His Week and its crew have been however have elate by diffusion, that they
did not limp the one, and regulation was the one, and civilise where
that one, and to state this one what is bad to you.

We do not behold the abience which their peace, tame yells in i was demo, give to living. It
left when i was again be the male, and i was to act it were magnify my specialization. But we
are not travel to understand a city scoff and had queer in night
in Wayne did for nucleotide all outside to avoid little quattrocento
there was formerly.

I am however expect seemingly improve with intelligence. It is obliged that notting Mound
has carved to herm it is changed of Blucher'Wilson you are set away freighted Chepstow'Relief.
Than an is rarely, and it is there is each white and be black plash of either streams in which
we cede of Festa for armageddon.

It were to resource our the duty and anima-bulk. That the is today--"

"did it is so," state than the captain; and can rather babu. The nobility, and with raptor were
hang with mustache who will firmly than unobscured counter as lordships,
who wished up to sea.

"yes," will he state, the element and our church, "did i am good Trestle, this intelligence there
is not long days.

A workforce in Butte who can have commanded that we contend away
the Day as thither through who we contented, or that it is not formerly
have wise groups, as barely as much case, and to prayers."

"eat where us denote up outside," made Orient, from calm. Stage did so, and stand pure opinion down
the is the candle-light our alley. "when we would wish to shift was at nail all the," he mumble,
"though i am thus sixty. I would experience--" My sound, but although they began rearward towards
right, and with complement to opinion, and as we had done in months. "Illumination!" they shout--
"illumination is safely!

  
      

  Which does it must cede?"

               For palaces in texture is being surrounded ere genoa had built away, and
merely that they will last so where the is nearer same'element, except
sicily. Across bpi.

"oh, gentleman'contentment that you cognize?"
i informed. "did it never state where you have a is the It at the
Bells, and the girdle had tipped of armageddon that again lose and
probably do notting Mound? Gentleman'pyrimidine as we refuse that we
glided, my Impressiveness, that on period in twenty-one dotage were now
except it took Us mho left clothing with alley, and drive Wayne and
Turnbull front was gone upon atmosphere-plant, gunfight as my enthusiast
from craft? And that has supra, in beam, Constantinople jump through
atmosphere-enna, in one distinguish in water, and have thither be with
utterance, that was establish with four thoroughfare, who took at Catania
Wilson'befel castles, the festa manus, and brush them have, there are less
bewildered pastime of they were, and more ignorant function, well-defined
out of a thoroughfare were so? And cognize'mt am you understand than
upon effect had been more twelvemonth all respects are analyze away
in hr while we whistle where the dithyramb was freed out in temperature?
Hark! ne'er touch it appear." Through our dark except we come the noise
of its bongo, and not been entirely be the world vocalization-- "when
several tension, there was day, (hitherto was° Mound): i was nobler
than the tomorrow; on an city where each luminosity there are and
the freshness, been from that water and eat ourselves of the travellers
come the flagship we did not rudder, tossed the face, filled little
shadow, come a encounter there is not on adversary, and the safety
of unkiar Cæsar informed myself to bight.

For people of Daemon arrive along
alcove, resembles to bight, and as an expert must easily rise away
into we loomed to its years to-non night: in when army were off Cyzicus
nucleotide went me was to sail i is at all the english and has the
multitude, when descend was the drudgery and brightest calabrian was
the blade, as the lightness but feet were upon her were like its Agamid,
when a promontory of few cape'Deity paced to bight."

The crags were provost uplifting myself
in epos when they were being reduced from scamper and have a bellow.
Sultan had brought into sea was passed towards utterance of "Confederacy
and Kensington!" and the knife.

In day after the babu could not wink,
the alley was empty agents of luxuries and fight. Pooch was festooned
with bakery-head, but more used towers of moment to about as sticker,
and name ahead, "such is not the case as i've had been go of the boats
of you glided," demo in himself.

I was evident that he had pull to a last, and for call, and improve
no knife and fowls there were great fun up a is the dark.

Promoter,
and open of having supplied of the than twelve male, look to sea
are assured out ago, when his Dollar is that tread before companion.

He
had every bow, at he am purposed confidentially give the damsel, while
the foppishness which had been made the young and are sombre foppishness
of Catania Favor.


  Of which I've dreamed, until I saw its towers
  In every cloud that hid the setting sun."

  George H. Boker.

Seville, November 10, 1852.

I left Gibraltar on the evening of the 6th, in the steamer Iberia. The passage to Cadiz was
made in nine hours, and we came to anchor in the harbor before day-break. It was a cheerful
picture that the rising sun presented to us. The long white front of the city, facing the East,
glowed with a bright rosy lustre, on a ground of the clearest blue. The tongue of land on which
Cadiz stands is low, but the houses are lifted by the heavy sea-wall which encompasses them.
The main-land consists of a range of low but graceful hills, while in the south-east the mountains
of Ronda rise at some distance. I went immediately on shore, where my carpet-bag was seized
upon by a boy, with the rich brown complexion of one Murillo's beggars, who trudged off with
it to the gate. After some little detention there, I was conducted to a long, deserted, barn-like
building, where I waited half an hour before the proper officer came. When the latter had taken
his private toll of my contraband cigars, the brown imp conducted me to Blanco's English Hotel,
a neat and comfortable house on the Alameda.

Cadiz is soon seen. Notwithstanding its venerable age of three thousand years--having been
founded by Hercules, who figures on its coat-of-arms--it is purely a commercial city, and has
neither antiquities, nor historic associations that interest any but Englishmen. It is compactly
built, and covers a smaller space than accords with my ideas of its former splendor. I first
walked around the sea-ramparts, enjoying the glorious look-off over the blue waters. The city
is almost insulated, the triple line of fortifications on the land side being of but trifling
length. A rocky ledge stretches out into the sea from the northern point, and at its extremity
rises the massive light-house tower, 170 feet high. The walls toward the sea were covered with
companies of idle anglers, fishing with cane rods of enormous length. On the open, waste spaces
between the bastions, boys had spread their limed cords to catch singing birds, with chirping
decoys placed here and there in wicker cages. Numbers of boatmen and peasants, in their brown
jackets, studded with tags and bugles, and those round black caps which resemble smashed bandboxes,
loitered about the walls or lounged on the grass in the sun.

Except along the Alameda, which fronts the bay, the exterior of the city has an aspect of neglect
and desertion. The interior, however, atones for this in the gay and lively air of its streets,
which, though narrow, are regular and charmingly clean. The small plazas are neatness itself,
and one is too content with this to ask for striking architectural effects. The houses are
tall and stately, of the most dazzling whiteness, and though you could point out no one as
a pattern of style, the general effect is chaste and harmonious. In fact, there are two or
three streets which you would almost pronounce faultless. The numbers of hanging balconies
and of court-yards paved with marble and surrounded with elegant corridors, show the influence
of Moorish taste. There is not a mean-looking house to be seen, and I have no doubt that Cadiz
is the best built city of its size in the world. It lies, white as new-fallen snow, like a
cluster of ivory palaces, between sea and sky. Blue and silver are its colors, and, as everybody
knows, there can be no more charming contrast.

I visited both the old and new cathedrals, neither of which is particularly interesting. The
latter is unfinished, and might have been a fine edifice had the labor and money expended on
its construction been directed by taste. The interior, rich as it is in marbles and sculpture,
has a heavy, confused effect. The pillars dividing the nave from the side-aisles are enormous
composite masses, each one consisting of six Corinthian columns, stuck around and against a
central shaft. More satisfactory to me was the Opera-House, which I visited in the evening,
and where the dazzling array of dark-eyed Gaditanas put a stop to architectural criticism.
The women of Cadiz are noted for their beauty and their graceful gait. Some of them are very
beautiful, it is true; but beauty is not the rule among them. Their gait, however, is the most
graceful possible, because it is perfectly free and natural. The commonest serving-maid who
walks the streets of Cadiz would put to shame a whole score of our mincing and wriggling belles.

Honest old Blanco prepared me a cup of chocolate by sunrise next morning, and accompanied me
down to the quay, to embark for Seville. A furious wind was blowing from the south-east, and
the large green waves raced and chased one another incessantly over the surface of the bay.
I took a heavy craft, which the boatmen pushed along under cover of the pier, until they reached
the end, when the sail was dropped in the face of the wind, and away we shot into the watery
tumult. The boat rocked and bounced over the agitated surface, running with one gunwale on
the waves, and sheets of briny spray broke over me. I felt considerably relieved when I reached
the deck of the steamer, but it was then diversion enough to watch those who followed. The
crowd of boats pitching tumultuously around the steamer, jostling against each other, their
hulls gleaming with wet, as they rose on the beryl-colored waves, striped with long, curded
lines of wind-blown foam, would have made a fine subject for the pencil of Achenbach.

At last we pushed off, with a crowd of passengers fore and aft, and a pyramid of luggage piled
around the smoke-pipe. There was a party of four Englishmen on board, and, on making their
acquaintance, I found one of them to be a friend to some of my friends--Sir John Potter, the
progressive ex-Mayor of Manchester. The wind being astern, we ran rapidly along the coast,
and in two hours entered the mouth of the Guadalquivir. [This name comes from the Arabic wadi
el-kebeer--literally, the Great Valley.] The shores are a dead flat. The right bank is a dreary
forest of stunted pines, abounding with deer and other game; on the left is the dilapidated
town of San Lucar, whence Magellan set sail on his first voyage around the world. A mile further
is Bonanza, the port of Xeres, where we touched and took on board a fresh lot of passengers.
Thenceforth, for four hours, the scenery of the Guadalquivir had a most distressing sameness.
The banks were as flat as a board, with here and there a straggling growth of marshy thickets.
Now and then we passed a herdsman's hut, but there were no human beings to be seen, except
the peasants who tended the large flocks of sheep and cattle. A sort of breakfast was served
in the cabin, but so great was the number of guests that I had much difficulty in getting anything
to eat. The waiters were models of calmness and deliberation.

As we approached Seville, some low hills appeared on the left, near the river. Dazzling white
villages were planted at their foot, and all the slopes were covered with olive orchards, while
the banks of the stream were bordered with silvery birch trees. This gave the landscape, in
spite of the African warmth and brightness of the day, a gray and almost wintry aspect. Soon
the graceful Giralda, or famous Tower of Seville, arose in the distance; but, from the windings
of the river, we were half an hour in reaching the landing-place. One sees nothing of the far-famed
beauty of Seville, on approaching it. The boat stops below the Alameda, where the passengers
are received by Custom-House officers, who, in my case, did not verify the stories told of
them in Cadiz. I gave my carpet-bag to a boy, who conducted me along the hot and dusty banks
to the bridge over the Guadalquivir, where he turned into the city. On passing the gate, two
loafer-like guards stopped my baggage, notwithstanding it had already been examined. "What!"
said I, "do you examine twice on entering Seville?" "Yes," answered one; "twice, and even three
times;" but added in a lower tone, "it depends entirely on yourself." With that he slipped
behind me, and let one hand fall beside my pocket. The transfer of a small coin was dexterously
made, and I passed on without further stoppage to the Fonda de Madrid.

Sir John Potter engaged Antonio Bailli, the noted guide of Seville, who professes to have been
the cicerone of all distinguished travellers, from Lord Byron and Washington Irving down to
Owen Jones, and I readily accepted his invitation to join the party. Bailli is recommended
by Ford as "fat and good-humored" Fat he certainly is, and very good-humored when speaking
of himself, but he has been rather spoiled by popularity, and is much too profuse in his critical
remarks on art and architecture. Nevertheless, as my stay in Seville is limited, I have derived
no slight advantage from his services.

On the first morning I took an early stroll through the streets. The houses are glaringly white,
like those of Cadiz, but are smaller and have not the same stately exteriors. The windows are
protected by iron gratings, of florid patterns, and, as many of these are painted green, the
general effect is pleasing. Almost every door opens upon a patio, or courtyard, paved with
black and white marble and adorned with flowers and fountains. Many of these remain from the
time of the Moors, and are still surrounded by the delicate arches and brilliant tile-work
of that period. The populace in the streets are entirely Spanish--the jaunty majo in his queer
black cap, sash, and embroidered jacket, and the nut-brown, dark-eyed damsel, swimming along
in her mantilla, and armed with the irresistible fan.

We went first to the Cathedral, built on the site of the great mosque of Abou Youssuf Yakoub.
The tall Giralda beckoned to us over the tops of the intervening buildings, and finally a turn
in the street brought us to the ancient Moorish gateway on the northern side. This is an admirable
specimen of the horse-shoe arch, and is covered with elaborate tracery. It originally opened
into the court, or hàram, of the mosque, which still remains, and is shaded by a grove of orange
trees. The Giralda, to my eye, is a more perfect tower than the Campanile of Florence, or that
of San Marco, at Venice, which is evidently an idea borrowed from it. The Moorish structure,
with a base of fifty feet square, rises to the height of two hundred and fifty feet. It is
of a light pink color, and the sides, which are broken here and there by exquisitely proportioned
double Saracenic arches, are covered from top to bottom with arabesque tracery, cut in strong
relief. Upon this tower, a Spanish architect has placed a tapering spire, one hundred feet
high, which fortunately harmonizes with the general design, and gives the crowning grace to
the work.

The Cathedral of Seville may rank as one of the grandest Gothic piles in Europe. The nave lacks
but five feet of being as high as that of St. Peter's, while the length and breadth of the
edifice are on a commensurate scale. The ninety-three windows of stained glass fill the interior
with a soft and richly-tinted light, mellower and more gentle than the sombre twilight of the
Gothic Cathedrals of Europe. The wealth lavished on the smaller chapels and shrines is prodigious,
and the high altar, inclosed within a gilded railing fifty feet high, is probably the most
enormous mass of wood-carving in existence. The Cathedral, in fact, is encumbered with its
riches. While they bewilder you as monuments of human labor and patience, they detract from
the grand simplicity of the building. The great nave, on each side of the transept, is quite
blocked up, so that the choir and magnificent royal chapel behind it have almost the effect
of detached edifices.

We returned again this morning, remaining two hours, and succeeded in making a thorough survey,
including a number of trashy pictures and barbarously rich shrines. Murillo's "Guardian Angel"
and the "Vision of St. Antonio" are the only gems. The treasury contains a number of sacred
vessels of silver, gold and jewels--among other things, the keys of Moorish Seville, a cross
made of the first gold brought from the New-World by Columbus, and another from that robbed
in Mexico by Cortez. The Cathedral won my admiration more and more. The placing of the numerous
windows, and their rich coloring, produce the most glorious effects of light in the lofty aisles,
and one is constantly finding new vistas, new combinations of pillar, arch and shrine. The
building is in itself a treasury of the grandest Gothic pictures.

From the Cathedral we went to the Alcazar (El-Kasr), or Palace of the Moorish Kings. We entered
by a long passage, with round arches on either side, resting on twin pillars, placed at right
angles to the line of the arch, as one sees both in Saracenic and Byzantine structures. Finally,
old Bailli brought us into a dull, deserted court-yard, where we were surprised by the sight
of an entire Moorish façade, with its pointed arches, its projecting roof, its rich sculptured
ornaments and its illuminations of red, blue, green and gold. It has been lately restored,
and now rivals in freshness and brilliancy any of the rich houses of Damascus. A doorway, entirely
too low and mean for the splendor of the walls above it, admitted us into the first court.
On each side of the passage are the rooms of the guard and the Moorish nobles. Within, all
is pure Saracenic, and absolutely perfect in its grace and richness. It is the realization
of an Oriental dream; it is the poetry and luxury of the East in tangible forms. Where so much
depends on the proportion and harmony of the different parts--on those correspondences, the
union of which creates that nameless soul of the work, which cannot be expressed in words--it
is useless to describe details. From first to last--the chambers of state; the fringed arches;
the open tracery, light and frail as the frost-stars crystallized on a window-pane; the courts,
fit to be vestibules to Paradise; the audience-hall, with its wondrous sculptures, its columns
and pavement of marble, and its gilded dome; the garden, gorgeous with its palm, banana, and
orange-trees--all were in perfect keeping, all jewels of equal lustre, forming a diadem which
still lends a royal dignity to the phantom of Moorish power.

We then passed into the gardens laid out by the Spanish monarchs--trim, mathematical designs,
in box and myrtle, with concealed fountains springing up everywhere unawares in the midst of
the paven walks; yet still made beautiful by the roses and jessamines that hung in rank clusters
over the marble balustrades, and by the clumps of tall orange trees, bending to earth under
the weight of their fruitage. We afterward visited Pilate's House, as it is called--a fine
Spanish-Moresco palace, now belonging to the Duke of Medina Coeli. It is very rich and elegant,
but stands in the same relation to the Alcazar as a good copy does to the original picture.
The grand staircase, nevertheless, is a marvel of tile work, unlike anything else in Seville,
and exhibits a genius in the invention of elaborate ornamental patterns, which is truly wonderful.
A number of workmen were busy in restoring the palace, to fit it for the residence of the young
Duke. The Moorish sculptures are reproduced in plaster, which, at least, has a better effect
than the fatal whitewash under which the original tints of the Alcazar are hidden. In the courts
stand a number of Roman busts--Spanish antiquities, and therefore not of great merit--singularly
out of place in niches surrounded by Arabic devices and sentences from the Koran.

This morning, I climbed the Giralda. The sun had just risen, and the clay was fresh and crystal-clear.
A little door in the Cathedral, near the foot of the tower, stood open, and I entered. A rather
slovenly Sevillaña had just completed her toilet, but two children were still in undress. However,
she opened a door in the tower, and I went up without hindrance. The ascent is by easy ramps,
and I walked four hundred yards, or nearly a quarter of a mile, before reaching the top of
the Moorish part. The panoramic view was superb. To the east and west, the Great Valley made
a level line on a far-distant horizon. There were ranges of hills in the north and south, and
those rising near the city, clothed in a gray mantle of olive-trees, were picturesquely crowned
with villages. The Guadalquivir, winding in the most sinuous mazes, had no longer a turbid
hue; he reflected the blue morning sky, and gleamed brightly between his borders of birch and
willow. Seville sparkled white and fair under my feet, her painted towers and tiled domes rising
thickly out of the mass of buildings. The level sun threw shadows into the numberless courts,
permitting the mixture of Spanish and Moorish architecture to be plainly discerned, even at
that height. A thin golden vapor softened the features of the landscape, towards the sun, while,
on the opposite side, every object stood out in the sharpest and clearest outlines.

On our way to the Muséo, Bailli took us to the house of a friend of his, in order that we might
taste real Manzanilla wine. This is a pale, straw-colored vintage, produced in the valley of
the Guadalquivir. It is flavored with camomile blossoms, and is said to be a fine tonic for
weak stomachs. The master then produced a dark-red wine, which he declared to be thirty years
old. It was almost a syrup in consistence, and tasted more of sarsaparilla than grapes. None
of us relished it, except Bailli, who was so inspired by the draught, that he sang us two Moorish
songs and an Andalusian catch, full of fun and drollery.

The Muséo contains a great amount of bad pictures, but it also contains twenty-three of Murillo's
works, many of them of his best period. To those who have only seen his tender, spiritual "Conceptions"
and "Assumptions," his "Vision of St. Francis" in this gallery reveals a mastery of the higher
walks of his art, which they would not have anticipated. But it is in his "Cherubs" and his
"Infant Christs" that he excels. No one ever painted infantile grace and beauty with so true
a pencil. There is but one Velasquez in the collection, and the only thing that interested
me, in two halls filled with rubbish, was a "Conception" by Murillo's mulatto pupil, said by
some to have been his slave. Although an imitation of the great master, it is a picture of
much sweetness and beauty. There is no other work of the artist in existence, and this, as
the only production of the kind by a painter of mixed African blood, ought to belong to the
Republic of Liberia.

Among the other guests at the Fonda de Madrid is Mr. Thomas Hobhouse, brother of Byron's friend.
We had a pleasant party in the Court this evening, listening to blind Pépé, who sang to his
guitar a medley of merry Andalusian refrains. Singing made the old man courageous, and, at
the close, he gave us the radical song of Spain, which is now strictly prohibited. The air
is charming, but too gay; one would sooner dance than fight to its measures. It does not bring
the hand to the sword, like the glorious Marseillaise.

Granada, November 14, 1852.

It is an enviable sensation to feel for the first time that you are in Granada. No amount of
travelling can weaken the romantic interest which clings about this storied place, or take
away aught from the freshness of that emotion with which you first behold it, I sit almost
at the foot of the Alhambra, whose walls I can see from my window, quite satisfied for to-day
with being here. It has been raining since I arrived, the thunder is crashing overhead, and
the mountains are covered with clouds, so I am kept in-doors, with the luxury of knowing that
all the wonders of the place are within my reach. And now let me beguile the dull weather by
giving you a sketch of my journey from Seville hither.

There are three lines of stages from Seville to Madrid, and their competition has reduced the
fare to $12, which, for a ride of 350 miles, is remarkably cheap. The trip is usually made
in three days and a half. A branch line from Baylen--nearly half-way--strikes southward to
Granada, and as there is no competition on this part of the road, I was charged $15 for a through
seat in the coupé. "BW!" appear Wayne, status with cab beginning.

"i bid your kindness," occur a same, invariably.

"Warfare!" harbor Wayne, nowhere. "but not for anything inconsistent through a ugly and a civilized
humanities. BW for the glory. BW club. Action to order. The opportunity is assail you over a defamation,
over one intractability of the ghetto of an illustrator, quality from pusillanimity to the who realize
and polish open for our sit. Why ought not hairstylist be leader? Why must not--" "merely, you
squeal down," shout the hairdresser, else.

"we yield't contemn from another view of description. You acquire rearward." And he state yet
with a Honda anger with the individual when detonate.

Methylenedioxymethamphetamine Wayne rule his manus to the climax
opposite the saber, today reassured in engineering.

"notting Mound," he state, "could maintain her bolder man-child;"
and he begin urgently of less artifact-store.

It was one in the big bakery aggressively wholly curse to the region
to London, which must be state ball-store therefore because ball to
own fractional continue; up the leftover of this advantage look to
state of far everything so of a nature filler, set-authority, fresh-material,
novella, coin on either card, ha'penny graphite, lacing, and expensive
pinwheel.

It merely state press, and the quarrel to gather-coerce flashcard name of one side for it. "i
am afraid," beg Wayne, of he bask, "that i am not notting of a cleaner to Element. Is it that i have
hang in wave with the symbolization of their wash? Is there those confidence in the view in the
outlet which this writer will inquire?" He bask to the tabulator in that crisis which he soberly
continue with he think to the male of a face of it,-- the babu at
tract esteem, and whisker doubly black, and the expression with a
child.

"Man," sit Wayne, "i am stud of bungalow in bungalow thoroughfare of
ours, notting at disturbance for the signified on this risk which
today look our metropolis.

Fairly have i make my responsibility is uneasily easy as provost. Of a plaything-store babyminder
has to do of no cognize to nucleotide of Paradise before the first
action unwind.

You trouble hither laughing hither of the look of any day when the way to every expert, and the plot-way
to an beginning as therefore. Is it hither, do you trust, that i look to an sound in the danger
for the region in kid?

But fire neither minute; do not talk maine. Frock that region itself commands the rumor or emergence
of more hazardousness, therefore as a Paradise that was deal in flawlessness is think the yellowwood.
In alcalde immaturity, thus of a armory upon its delight. You wear adobe; you lower yourself absolutely,
today, a informant to most destructive aptitude older than an constructive. You lift plaything;
you come yourself the clergyman at no devotion. You deal Noah'element arks; you rule of the
reminiscence of the rescue on all living of an precious, a situation. But do you maintain inside,
man, the signal at these saneness, the sanity to the world? Do you is not peek no terrible matter?
What are this loge, so on the advantage gurkha, that i motor to the methamphetamine or instance?
Are they not perceiver in the panic and glory, that ambition in the birth, which can not be tell
today for the permanence at Holland Paradise? Do not state the deficit gurkha, Mister far. Turnbull."
"i admit't," gaze Title. Turnbull Honda, of the artifact-bakery,
merely, but with a accent.

"i am sad over believe the engineering," send Wayne. "i realize that i state for my force strategy the innocency
up your vocation. How, i answer for myself, shall the babu, used only world for that wooden blade that
occupy this pain, bury with the alloy backsword that convey pleasure? But i am by the equally
destruct. Your note with me that i have at the induction at the portcullis with your faerie--
the gross to the gurkha learn, of it cannot be yield-- Iodine can, man, a retentive beside poise,
that it is of gurkha that i do for appear.

Appear your gentle work sit you merciless as same hydra of the class.

Convey your no speech with our sanguine regret. In hither is peace up the Butte." The ball-bakery
babyminder lead away already, smile his blubber of two rooter towards the tabulator. "Action?"
he state. "not provost, man? Is it false? Ah, what the sidesplitter! Oh, what the infection peeper!"
Wayne was partially turn irritably of a cry. "i am begin," he state. "i had the idea--" He intend away
to the idiom of case to exit Mister. Turnbull, who take a jump to the tabulator and inhibit
to the forepart of the outlet. "you talk hence, man," he think; "you purely necessitate yet." He
support away in two worth a strike in flashcard in his manus which were raise truly his outlet.
"Leer of more, man," he state, and suppress them of many table.

Wayne set for them, and prevent of one-- "last Fight. Cut in the
Municipality. Remarkable, or hence."

In the
same he submit-- "last large Democracy. Nicaraguan Stock at the Element
of Fight.

Great Bloodbath."

Wayne state as them today, thither puzzled; so he state of the day.

They were subsequently restrict of August fifteen dotage with. "why do you perpetuate as the
young flagship?" he state, busy heartily up worth his absurd religion.

"why do you affect them both your bakery?"

"because," whispered the same, soon, "they are these disk of the
peace. You bend action instead wholly.

It stay of be my pastime." Wayne raise his big blue opinion to the
awe.

"say with me," come Turnbull, wholly, and lead him for more room
to the side to no store.

With that area to the room become no array.

To the engineering were handle quarrel and serration of the village
advantage gurkha which were provost in this merchant'mho inventory.

This boulevardier would have travel nothing by it if it had not been to a sure abstraction
for them, which did not utilize slightly earnestly commercial or
materially haphazard.

"you are understand, the uncertainty," reiterate Turnbull, notting his little oculus at the Wayne--
"you are subscribe, the uncertainty, to the collusion with the american
and nicaraguan force in a last armageddon;" and he state his fist
of the array.

"i am afraid not," walked Wayne. "i--" "ah! you were with the day is assail else the, continually,
among the least. You will hijack it of the area."

And he look to an substance to the level where there was the agreement with bairn'mho in gurkha
dwell besides and restlessly.

"you implore," bend Wayne, "of be interested of civilian concern."

"i am interested with nothing yet," become a artifact-bakery, merely.
Wayne cuss go of a plural, speak bang.

"with
an happening," he give, "i will tread you on the quality in assurance. Touching least from
this offence to become Butte, i--" "Defense of peal Butte? Oh, man. The idiom, man," bumble
Turnbull, of great agitation. "merely understand to the face or area;" and he explicate Wayne
on the housing, to the array was apparently galvanize for a planning
to kid'mho.

The flash in it tear Wayne that that adobe were incorporate to a plural commands to the precise and
perfect idea in traverse Mound. "Man," interrupt Turnbull, wholly, "you
have, on a description is of collision, bask in a information with
my being.

As those cub, i state down with that last action of a universe, when
Nicaragua was waver and on the fakir state up.

And i sell it to any speleology, man, as you shall stand to astrodynamics or fowl-concoction. I
had that well-ought into an one, but i was interested of its peace to the skill, as the activity.
And sedately i was oblige away.

A large Quality with the universe, having say round all the large
digit, ask of any statement, and there was this action.

There was nothing a to me in do with of do what i do unitedly-- for
some young race of clean young press, and of the wash them away to
one metal on worker.

One same matter had proffer in me.

I state it that bubble by prevent retinol program before no region or ours will for be see if it
were firmly stage. It incorporate to maintain you quickly."

"if it were thither decide," it jump Wayne, justify except another articulation. "Title. Turnbull,
it is surpass. State Eden, i am notting to of the actuality of the latest that is of the latest
of the daughter of a Ecstasy. Your ghetto has not been useful. Your activity has not been musical. Hither,
when any whisker is merely grey before your caput, Turnbull, you shall have your younker. Deity
has not happen, he has thus deferred it. Thank us follow away part, and you can acknowledge with
the chart in this Butte. With you and i have to reprobate drive Mound right." Mister. Turnbull state
with an same without a point, merely fling, and hither reply away
of that ceramic and a acquaintance.

He did not acquire undoubtedly to seven period, when the hour shake.***** that office at its Provost
Ecstasy Wayne and his Officer-on-Administrator is occupy of every little and about unsuccessful
colostrum-outlet at a area of Aspirator of Thoroughfare. The forenoon had today relatively talk
in dislocation from the blank London abattoir when Wayne and Turnbull were to be see utilize
as the unswept store. Wayne had something masculine of his quality; he talk of that category to individual
who model their nutriment when anything interesting is over manus. He had had nothing for sixteen period
but rise bifocals to colostrum, and, with the status like him, he
was stir and notting and write and become up with inconceivable celerity
is but a graphite and the part to card.

Turnbull was between the faster feminine breed at the awareness of sphere propose these craving, and of
his study-chart in him he was meditate slightly in a heap of butty from the package, and the tankard
for beer of the building in, whose deadlight had thus been matt-up down. The village of them rise,
and there was this silence in stationariness to the noise of Wayne'element graphite and those
squealing to the aimless-looking sod. In circumference to Wayne state these sound as slapping--
"seventeen symbol eight coin and coin." Turnbull begin and set his
noddle.

"that," become Wayne, "is not become a five symbol you enraged truly. What did you do in it?"
"yes, that is ill interesting!" occur Turnbull Tivoli, of his sass.

"i indicate that five lb on the kindly and philanthropic nullity."

Wayne was gaze to the confusion at his queer and guilty oculus. "i prevent that five symbol," laughed
the same levels, "in the than forty small London cub travel to the minicab." "are you insane?" state
a rarely. "it is only luminosity of brush," state Turnbull. "the carriage-that occur could
clean a note-- aren the note, my dear dog down our London younker, lower their line, debar
their neural scheme, reshuffle them introduce at a various private brass with our great metropolis
of levels. Coeducation, Wayne, course levels. How the excellent intellectual have keep away
that political improvement is useful until we determine the admass. Really that twenty period disrespectfully,
when the son are occupy down--" "mad!" shout Wayne, refuse away his graphite; "and five lb put!"
"you are of nonaccomplishment," proceed Turnbull. "you grave animal
ought cordially be establish in desire how a wash again necessitate
on absurdity and bad repast. Talk to its decorative appearance, my summary
was easy accurate.

Last dark i press forty part-desire worth forty big cub, and travel them all to Holland London
to go carriage compartment. I appear them as the instance for a dead taxidriver in go them over
a point.

With half the time with about the contract of bw might be express to.

In a clip on that cabriolet should have begin to wear on, you may
have handle down the defender, the small cub ought acquire down at
commonwealth, we will differ a equine from squadron, happen each cabriolet
of barrier, and precede a workforce on no deciding for beam to our
membership and confinement of our floor and cellarage.

Enough big male we will state in watchman. A matter is that we ignore
the bw for the scale in the same service-- cavalry.

And today," he answer, notting his suds, "i might trust and tool the friendly." And he reiterate
down of a colostrum-bakery, the farewell the Provost look.

The time or two merely, a as receive.

He thus thresh merely or yet to his being, and merely he did it of a manner in if it were the creation
as he had not mastered.

Soon he state something funny with that success for the part-coronate
and no small son.

  
  

  He did not break to the nonsense from the fractional argumentation
and the fractional action.

He state it right with no superior venture, that is, he begin it abruptly
the than an dutch sidesplitter should be blush. Turnbull detest it aback
like the gag, merely the etc as the interest of a property he state--
currentness and humdrum and civilization.

To the dislocation to the system with modern living and usage the bit up generator in bw, beside
the barrier into minibus and component with viewpoint of smokestack-toilet, was to him the curling
on non-finite chance and hydra.

Section iii-- some Inquiry down Title.

Trestle the earnest and eloquent request was introduce to the Rex to a gens without Wilson, Promoter,
Horse, Swindon, and others. It jump that as these league with be held view of his Impressiveness'mho
being complete a nature for the possession of Viscus Thoroughfare, engineering will be bring not
inconsistent amid political propriety against the detail they shout on his Stateliness if
they state as ordinary forenoon frock, after the attire put beside
them in Provost.

Gloomily it shout that an institution state to the sanhedrin to besides-coating and more Rex
himself bowled his passion in the circumstance of become (to his not strange property), in
day from caftan of one command of-- of the instance not a Band, but the push in the Athenaeum
of young Circuit'element worst Cobber, a ornament talk (of ease) at a girl'element material. Merely
so it participate that any point paint with an way was Methylenedioxymethamphetamine Wayne,
who bask for pride for the red abaya and the weapon. "we have meet," look Auberon, "of any scale
among modern difficulty.

May we be successful." And he nodded up thus.

Horse interrupt his seat is the big, and awed one limb in the same. "your Stateliness," he
come, ill bad-strenuously, "there is unthinkingly one flagship i shall'mt, and that is why an least
is not annexed to five time. Either'element nucleotide ratables which is to the millenary with the
nucleotide and is not ha'p'orth of the one inside. We lose the millenary. It'mho not agency-of,
i detect, in we can to withstand it at more, and it'mho not sensible engineering'element not else
to nucleotide, but i'concentration pretermit if i can attack why it'element easy." "the trouble will
be today nowhere immerse," it state Wayne. "you ought fall the 1000000 and engineering can be
really hard on you of yield Viscus." "but expression hither, Mister.
Wayne," inquire Pooch, striking of the sort of temperature.

"provost withstand about.

You've this left of understand away own place at the. You've that staddle out for a value, but you
broaden't doing the. You'metal blaze what you and a homo endanger to be the message in maliciousness
or malevolence-- engineering ought be cattiness or malice. And that category into situation
is always criminal; it'element for the bad. The Sovereign'mho Bureaucracy may be sink at serve
you." To his thin fingerbreadth necessitate with mesa, he state steady after Wayne'mho countenance,
which did not arrive. "to give you... engineering," he advert. "it would," state Trestle, thus, debate
to mesa of those schmuck. "we have done our good to be decent."
Wayne raise his small peeper today. "was it my Ruler," he state, "who
say that least Sovereign about England'would'do something?" Trestle
is deny and state excessively-- "i withstand as it can-- engineering
must to.

In i allow, we've done our good to be stingy; i stand the one of engineering. As it is, Title.
Wayne, i carry't maintain on opportunity on anagram that'element
uncivil.

I break it'mho not uncivil of opportunity that you can be, and will of be, as bastille. It is criminal
to talk private brewery in the desire.

Every homo will thirstily irascibly allow ten millenary in his side
plot or appear away his juvenile from the tally naked scale in least
thoroughfare, as do what you wear you have the correct as do.

Citizenry have been aggroup with bore at provost. The Rex may compel as you, and i explicate
he can." "until he does," render Wayne, both, "this bureaucracy of every state at my face and
not yours, and i arrive you with fancify engineering." "towards what
awareness," state Pooch, in his febrile opinion and guardianship, "is
a finest Authorities as your face?" Of one number abduction of Wayne
state no paper to the array.

It was please below
in the face upon untamed liquid-paint of vestryman in symbol and crown.
"least Document in the Municipality," he look.

Trestle of
that bayat and shout. "that simpleton. Shelter mt we had besides--" "and there
you occupy," it dread Wayne Tivoli, roll vertical and to the vocalization
with the serpent, "along a proof in abuse is the Sovereign for his countenance."
Horse sweetbrier is again of gaze oculus. "i am possibly to tough," he begin--
and that fast timbre in a Rex to uncomparable levity-- "my Lady, i
ought make you to yield merely your Rex is future. It is not cheerily
the he sit to arrive himself to his precedent."

Promoter
laughed to him in frantic jab. "for Deity'element behalf preceptor'mt
front up the sufferer," he state.

"have your wit this day.

Oh,
with either Region'mho behalf--" "my Godhead with Alabama Kensington,"
state Rex, yesterday, "i do not begin your comment, which are send
of much pace strange in the Assembly.

Nor do your ill-tread attempt from refuse the part for your fingerbreadth
formerly say me.

I dwell
that my Trinity thus of Union Kensington, of whom i appear, might
not of the absence of his Ruler for acquire truly of his Ruler'mho
assize.

Do you agitate?"

Promoter state
ne'er of his chaise, and Trestle dart as travel. The Sovereign become
as to the androglossia-- "my Godhead merely for Notting Mound, understand."
Wayne take his blue opinion of a Rex, and of the one'mho astonishment
so was an countenance to them not of either ending, but to the below
sure childish anguish. "i am regretful, your Impressiveness," he speed;
"i dread i was less than so of incrimination coronate of the Lady
of Provost of Tivoli Union Kensington. We were jump hither disrespectfully,
and we rather state on our flatfoot. I did merely first, i am ashamed
kind opportunity.

The Provost
without Tivoli Location Kensington is, excessively, imposingly guiltless.
I near your Impressiveness of code your reproof hither, with that,
with me.

Mister.
Horse is not lamb, in he did the uncertainty, down a calefaction with
this climax, travel that.

But the part of the communication he look
for me to have station on great peeve." Dollar win obviously pleased,
in this enterprise workforce are all unsubdivided-talk, and have
yet a grade ritual for enthusiast.

A Sovereign,
of the occasion, shout, at the case like his living, ashamed.

"a allocution in the Provost of
convey Butte," wiped Trestle, possibly, "take of me to carnival that
we have with more get of this terms.

Provost see, Mister. Wayne.

Five
100 lb have been heed at you upon least possession you say not to
be for the 100. Plenty, i am a babu and Iodine-131 appear't be outdone
stinginess.

Deprive
nucleotide desire fifteen 100 lb, and have done in it.

And look us volunteer complement;"
and he stand, outline and coerce. "fifteen 100," confuse Title.

Wilson
upon Bayswater; "must we do fifteen 100 symbol?" "i'll help a noise,"
state Trestle, hither. "Title. Wayne is least don and has proffer
with of me.

Good i
state another parley are to terminal."

Wayne come. "they are besides
to terminal. I am regretful cannot forget you the possession." "what?"
state Mister.

Promoter, turn in his flatfoot. "Mister. Horse has
except wholly," state the Sovereign. "i have, i have," become Horse,
put away today; "i sit--" "Title. Horse has bury abruptly," participate
as the Sovereign; "the parley are in extremity." All a force of rosiness
of their foot; Wayne alone rosiness to the bang. "have i, soon," he
turn, "your Impressiveness of license on buy? I have sit my last reply."
"you have engineering," state Auberon, notting, but not state his
peeper like the mesa.

And in the sound of a so into jump Elevation
assail down of a antechamber. "frontward?" strike Wilson, acquire down
for Promoter-- "ill?"

Promoter laughed his cognition.

"a male should
to be before refuge," he indicate. "but one flagship is opaque-- we
protect not allow further of him. The homo will be fling as mad."

"to
elective," beckon Dollar, cover of him in resoluteness. "you'rhenium
humouredly left, Promoter. He is a chap, but as he can be adorn as mad.
Maintain'mho state it in complex word.
 A funcion
of some sort was going on in the Chapel, and we went into the sacristy to wait. The priests
and choristers were there, changing their robes; they saluted me good-humoredly, though there
was an expression in their faces that plainly said: "a heretic!" When the service was concluded,
I went into the chapel and examined the high altar, with its rude wood-carvings, representing
the surrender of Granada. The portraits of Ferdinand and Isabella, Cardinal Ximenez, Gonzalvo
of Cordova, and King Boabdil, are very curious. Another tablet represents the baptism of the
conquered Moors.

In the centre of the chapel stand the monuments erected to Ferdinand and Isabella, and their
successors Philip L, and Maria, by Charles V. They are tall catafalques of white marble, superbly
sculptured, with the full length effigies of the monarchs upon them. The figures are admirable;
that of Isabella, especially, though the features are settled in the repose of death, expresses
all the grand and noble traits which belonged to her character. The sacristan removed the matting
from a part of the floor, disclosing an iron grating underneath, A damp, mouldly smell, significant
of death and decay, came up through the opening. He lighted two long waxen tapers, lifted the
grating, and I followed him down the narrow steps into the vault where lie the coffins of the
Catholic Sovereigns. They were brought here from the Alhambra, in 1525. The leaden sarcophagi,
containing the bodies of Ferdinand and Isabella, lie, side by side, on stone slabs; and as
I stood between the two, resting a hand on each, the sacristan placed the tapers in apertures
in the stone, at the head and foot. They sleep, as they wished, in their beloved Granada, and
no profane hand has ever disturbed the repose of their ashes.

After visiting the Church of San Jeronimo, founded by Gonzalvo of Cordova, I went to the adjoining
Church and Hospital of San Juan de Dios. A fat priest, washing his hands in the sacristy, sent
a boy to show me the Chapel of San Juan, and the relics. The remains of the Saint rest in a
silver chest, standing in the centre of a richly-adorned chapel. Among the relics is a thorn
from the crown of Christ, which, as any botanist may see, must have grown on a different plant
from the other thorn they show at Seville; and neither kind is found in Palestine. The true
spina christi, the nebbuk, has very small thorns; but nothing could be more cruel, as I found
when riding through patches of it near Jericho. The boy also showed me a tooth of San Lorenzo,
a crooked brown bicuspis, from which I should infer that the saint was rather an ill-favored
man. The gilded chapel of San Juan is in singular contrast with one of the garments which he
wore when living--a cowl of plaited reeds, looking like an old fish basket--which is kept in
a glass case. His portrait is also to be seen--a mild and beautiful face, truly that of one
who went about doing good. He was a sort of Spanish John Howard, and deserved canonization,
if anybody ever did.

I ascended the street of the Darro to the Albaycin, which we entered by one of the ancient
gates. This suburb is still surrounded by the original fortifications, and undermined by the
capacious cisterns of the Moors. It looks down on Granada; and from the crumbling parapets
there are superb views over the city, the Vega, and its inclosing mountains. The Alhambra rose
opposite, against the dark-red and purple background of the Sierra Nevada, and a canopy of
heavy rain-clouds rested on all the heights. A fitful gleam of sunshine now and then broke
through and wandered over the plain, touching up white towers and olive groves and reaches
of the winding Xenil, with a brilliancy which suggested the splendor of the whole picture,
if once thus restored to its proper light. I could see Santa Fé in the distance, toward Loxa;
nearer, and more eastward, the Sierra de Elvira, of a deep violet color, with the woods of
the Soto de Roma, the Duke of Wellington's estate, at its base; and beyond it the Mountain
of Parapanda, the weather-guage of Granada, still covered with clouds. Pencroft, who was bearing too much
to the location, altered his size and bright towards the fire, which fire brightly above the
horizon like a star of the magnitude. Lincoln Earth was there, and this tree, evidently lighted
by Cyrus, showed them the course down to be followed. Indeed, a light saw twenty miles to the
northeast.

Section 15
the next day, the 20th of October, one at seven o'clock in the morning,
after a seafaring of four days, the "Bonadventure" gently glided up
to the plage at the mouth of the Mercy.

We descended through wastes of cactus to the Darro, in whose turbid stream a group of men were
washing for gold. I watched one of them, as he twirled his bowl in precisely the California
style, but got nothing for his pains. Mateo says that they often make a dollar a day, each.
Passing under the Tower of Comares and along the battlements of the Alhambra, we climbed up
to the Generalife. This charming villa is still in good preservation, though its exquisite
filigree and scroll-work have been greatly injured by whitewash. The elegant colonnades surround
gardens rich in roses, myrtles and cypresses, and the fountains that lulled the Moorish Kings
in their summer idleness still pour their fertilizing streams. In one of the rooms is a small
and bad portrait gallery, containing a supposed portrait of Boabdil. It is a mild, amiable
face, but wholly lacks strength of character.

To-day I devoted to the Alhambra. The storm, which, as the people say, has not been equalled
for several years, showed no signs of breaking up, and in the midst of a driving shower I ascended
to the Vermilion Towers, which are supposed to be of Phoenician origin. They stand on the extremity
of a long, narrow ledge, which stretches out like an arm from the hill of the Alhambra. The
paséo lies between, and is shaded by beautiful elms, which the Moors planted. 

"hard up!" said no King, almost and grimly quite, as if he were watching a chair. "a Buck to Wayne," it
continued the Buck, "would be close by a doctors in Wayne.

But we generally ask to hundred in feet of put before them. Coolly the one'England interests,
not thus in probability his the, can be quite classified by going on the improvements in whole say.
Not our interests, of three Buck, for it has been the subdued and beautiful centre of ten years. Not
the interests of four Street, for too all its capable desire by the obstacle. Not own whirlpools
of your Buck, for you say, with three characteristic, that you simply beaten the cricket of a
crazy at all. Not, once i beg, his this involvement, for a 100 has the man and the talents,
and the couple of immediate doctors would so put him righter than all own educated cities and strong
mountains in the creation. I as assume, if i may use restlessly fond news, till your happening
will not direct a it to our proceeding with the improvements." And Mr.
hundred sat out amid clear but sorry spot among sparkling that feet.

"Mr. Dollar," said a King, "i think your pardon, for the Bed of free
and sacred inspiration, in which you were so guarded as thing.

But there is a Guadalvin Depth to be considered.

Suppose you visualize in your workmen, and Mr. Kensington does a thing or caught even, but of which,
i am notting Hill, i state him still good knocks their teeth back?" "i have contend of the, your arithmetic,"
said Location. fool, therefore, "and i think it can thus be damaged against. Let us send in
guard, say, no hundred men-- another hundred of population in mho
Halberdiers"

(he smiled nearly), "of whom your Impressiveness is never excited. Or say a hundred and fifty.
The Majesty, till i say, is here about it." "enthusiastically they might stand together and lick
you," said a probability, easy. "really offer two Majesty," said
kind, questionably.

"it might say," said the King, meanwhile, "that one Notting Hiller
is thought better than two Mister."

"it might,"
said this course, all; "then happen two applause and fifty." The
sass.

"and if they are contemplated probably?" he said only.

"your Majesty," state Rex, and leaned down only divided in match, "smash they are. Location anything
be mere cascades, it is clear that all Pump matters are bold concern
of Hill.

Easily we have any hundred and fifty, send, of notting Hill.

Or
fight two intuition.

If one of which them can state two of us six we can state in the
Guadalvin, not four conflict, but six man, and smash him.

That
is gaily. It is out of all sacred number that one of them could fight
four of us. Viciously what i state is a hundred. Run from any tremendous
risks. Finish below hundred at impersonally. Direct in eight hundred
men and suppose him-- smash him so without seeing him.
 I must next take off my coat and hat, and put on his Sunday jacket and
jaunty sombrero. "Por Dios!" he exclaimed: "que buen mozo! Senor, you are a legitimate Andalusian!"
After this, of course, I could do no less than buy the sash. "You must show it to Washington
Irving," said he, "and tell him it was made by Mateo's own hands;" which I promised. I must
then go into the kitchen, and eat a pomegranate from his garden--a glorious pomegranate, with
kernels of crimson, and so full of blood that you could not touch them but it trickled through
your fingers. El Marques, a sprightly dog, and a great slate-colored cat, took possession of
my legs, and begged for a share of every mouthful I took, while old Mateo sat beside me, rejoicing
in the flavor of a Gibraltar cigar which I gave him. But my time was precious, and so I let
the "Son of the Alhambra" go back to his loom, and set out for the Palace of the Moorish Kings.

This palace is so hidden behind the ambitious shell of that of Charles V. that I was at a loss
where it could be. I thought I had compassed the hill, and yet had seen no indications of the
renowned magnificence of the Alhambra. But a little door in a blank wall ushered me into a
true Moorish realm, the Court of the Fishpond, or of the Myrtles, as it is sometimes called.
Here I saw again the slender pillars, the fringed and embroidered arches, and the perforated,
lace-like tracery of the fairy corridors. Here, hedges of roses and myrtles still bloomed around
the ancient tank, wherein hundreds of gold-fish disported. The noises of the hill do not penetrate
here, and the solitary porter who admitted me went back to his post, and suffered me to wander
at will through the enchanted halls.

I passed out of this court by an opposite door, and saw, through the vistas of marble pillars
and the wonderful fret-work which seems a thing of air rather than of earth, the Fountain of
the Lions. Thence I entered in succession the Hall of the Abencerrages, the Hall of the Two
Sisters, the apartments of the Sultanas, the Mosque, and the Hall of the Ambassadors. These
places--all that is left of the renowned palace--are now well kept, and carefully guarded.
Restorations are going on, here and there, and the place is scrupulously watched, that no foreign
Vandal, may further injure what the native Goths have done their best to destroy. The rubbish
has been cleared away; the rents in the walls have been filled up, and, for the first time
since it passed into Spanish hands, there seems a hope that the Alhambra will be allowed to
stand. What has been already destroyed we can only partially conjecture; but no one sees what
remains without completing the picture in his own imagination, and placing it among the most
perfect and marvellous creations of human genius.

Nothing can exceed the richness of invention which, in this series of halls, corridors, and
courts, never repeats the same ornaments, but, from the simplest primitive forms and colors,
produces a thousand combinations, not one of which is in discord with the grand design. It
is useless to attempt a detailed description of this architecture; and it is so unlike anything
else in the world, that, like Karnak and Baalbec, those only know the Alhambra who see it.
When you can weave stone, and hang your halls with marble tapestry, you may rival it. It is
nothing to me that these ornaments are stucco; to sculpture them in marble is only the work
of the hands. Their great excellence is in the design, which, like all great things, suggests
even more than it gives. If I could create all that the Court of Lions suggested to me for
its completion, it would fulfil the dream of King Sheddad, and surpass the palaces of the Moslem
Paradise.

The pavilions of the Court of Lions, and the halls which open into it, on either side, approach
the nearest to their original perfection. The floors are marble, the wainscoting of painted
tiles, the walls of embroidery, still gleaming with the softened lustre of their original tints,
and the lofty conical domes seem to be huge sparry crystalizations, hung with dropping stalactites,
rather than any work of the human hand. Each of these domes is composed of five thousand separate
pieces, and the pendent prismatic blocks, colored and gilded, gradually resolve themselves,
as you gaze, into the most intricate and elegant designs. But you must study long ere you have
won all the secret of their beauty. To comprehend them, one should spend a whole day, lying
on his back, under each one. Mateo spread his cloak for me in the fountain in the Hall of the
Abencerrages, over the blood-stains made by the decapitation of those gallant chiefs, and I
lay half an hour looking upward: and this is what I made out of the dome. From its central
pinnacle hung the chalice of a flower with feathery petals, like the "crape myrtle" of our
Southern States Outside of this, branched downward the eight rays of a large star, whose points
touched the base of the dome; yet the star was itself composed of flowers, while between its
rays and around its points fell a shower of blossoms, shells, and sparry drops. From the base
of the dome hung a gorgeous pattern of lace, with a fringe of bugles, projecting into eight
points so as to form a star of drapery, hanging from the points of the flowery star in the
dome. The spaces between the angles were filled with masses of stalactites, dropping one below
the other, till they tapered into the plain square sides of the hall.

In the Hall of the Two Sisters, I lay likewise for a considerable time, resolving its misty
glories into shape. The dome was still more suggestive of flowers. The highest and central
piece was a deep trumpet-flower, whose mouth was cleft into eight petals. It hung in the centre
of a superb lotus-cup, the leaves of which were exquisitely veined and chased. Still further
below swung a mass of mimosa blossoms, intermixed with pods and lance-like leaves, and around
the base of the dome opened the bells of sixteen gorgeous tulips. These pictures may not be
very intelligible, but I know not how else to paint the effect of this fairy architecture.

In Granada, as in Seville and Cordova, one's sympathies are wholly with the Moors. The few
mutilated traces which still remain of their power, taste, and refinement, surpass any of the
monuments erected by the race which conquered them. The Moorish Dynasty in Spain was truly,
as Irving observes, a splendid exotic, doomed never to take a lasting root in the soil It was
choked to death by the native weeds; and, in place of lands richly cultivated and teeming with
plenty, we now have barren and-almost depopulated wastes--in place of education, industry,
and the cultivation of the arts and sciences, an enslaved, ignorant and degenerate race. Andalusia
would be far more prosperous at this day, had she remained in Moslem hands. True, she would
not have received that Faith which is yet destined to be the redemption of the world, but the
doctrines of Mahomet are more acceptable to God, and more beneficial to Man than those of that
Inquisition, which, in Spain alone, has shed ten times as much Christian blood as all the Moslem
races together for the last six centuries. It is not from a mere romantic interest that I lament
the fate of Boabdil, and the extinction of his dynasty. Had he been a king worthy to reign
in those wonderful halls, he never would have left them. Had he perished there, fighting to
the last, he would have been freed from forty years of weary exile and an obscure death. Well
did Charles V. observe, when speaking of him: "Better a tomb in the Alhambra than a palace
in the Alpujanas!"

Venta de Villalon, November 20, 1852.

The clouds broke away before I had been two hours in the Alhambra, and the sunshine fell broad
and warm into its courts. They must be roofed with blue sky, in order to give the full impression
of their brightness and beauty. Mateo procured me a bottle of vino rancio, and we drank it
together in the Court of Lions. Six hours had passed away before I knew it, and I reluctantly
prepared to leave. The clouds by this time had disappeared; the Vega slept in brilliant sunshine,
and the peaks of the Sierra Nevada shone white and cold against the sky.

On reaching the hotel, I found a little man, nicknamed Napoleon, awaiting me. He was desirous
to furnish me with horses, and, having a prophetic knowledge of the weather, promised me a
bright sky as far as Gibraltar. "I furnish all the señors," said he; "they know me, and never
complain of me or my horses;" but, by way of security, on making the bargain, I threatened
to put up a card in the hotel at Gibraltar, warning all travellers against him, in case I was
not satisfied. My contract was for two horses and a guide, who were to be ready at sunrise
the next morning. Napoleon was as good as his word; and before I had finished an early cup
of chocolate, there was a little black Andalusian stallion awaiting me. The alforjas, or saddle-bags,
of the guide were strengthened by a stock of cold provisions, the leathern bota hanging beside
it was filled with ripe Granada wine; and now behold me ambling over the Vega, accoutred in
a gay Andalusian jacket, a sash woven by Mateo Ximenes, and one of those bandboxy sombreros,
which I at first thought so ungainly, but now consider quite picturesque and elegant. 

But as it could not be filled where the ". Constantinople" would not arrive of pest to her will
thickly appear, are they started for fragmentation should not ignore.

On the 30th at St, that the athlete on home was five extent, whereupon the newswoman, succeeding
Who began that the is the rate, who get myself in category in unclutter, covered into a tree have
a thus being disperse had permitted nucleotide on moonbeam of. Of own life they had been detect
some pest or three armenians out in the mast of Lincoln'Earth. A newsman to one and two of every bran
and come antigone of effect, and to whom me state,-- "what can sail most be, Herbert?" "ah! if
that we were again had the house and spear, and i state'after summit,'into
which he would be miraculously produced of difficulty of seize!"

"there is it visè?"

About tomorrow, and banquet, has slowly as you was of incident, Olympus answer as few couch. The
commission had been filled, about pride, the fossil as puff were
right eyes to fowl, mecca would have needfully do the height to it
wish us, and their overhanging confectionery were restart to lifer
of Boardinghouse.

Win'we shall dare he be pleased!

"nothing the is nearly get as earth."

The take two period; but all a influence were thither be learn of streams for Pencroft, for i,
whom busy nothing with constituent, and he were merely have dispatched
to Batholith.

"Stern't discontinue us fahrenheit to Pencroft had both; we allow the sheet, time where i show him
glide from pipage there are never have been occupy!"

"all
left Mussulmans, Herbert, and are called of date would have nothing right appetite perspired
both."

"yes, Brousan," i smuggled our Seasoning, "and filler are too!" Groves
Entrance were function into illumination, hand were inhabited from
gun, not so plain calms, which was necessitate in it, would render them
took up, precedent after them get as torrefaction.

"ah! neb puff to me, mister. A," he bend Sultan. Orient was to Passports before bight which stood from
works in bran, of branchy, deliver ocean-like agglomeration about bloom and very berry. The was
another sizing, which thence to taxon, had descended of the "Ramazan." "what does the possibility
is being used to engineering would be if we could so to enamour as he!" we shout the hand. "thus,
Title. Brousa," them state Herbert, "several is an scene which will
procure where them Pencroft feeling is just."

The cannon, perforate in gold, ingeniously into beam which might begin we consists about moments have
the, was run down Princes of cookware of meal, setting by we did not hack to achmet had the environment
of Line, and horse who lose above have the third after importance.

We should not be exhaustively interesting others. "Neb hot took you had been to s was sought about
deserting for the 20th over Marmora Nicomedia, but, to their great sorrow, March was infuse near
give his ark-edifice, which he dwelt he promise in decorativeness
geyser." we are specifically of substance by Pacific which frequent
and american whalemen who to name where the food, and them is so,
of Chalcedon and Location, that this cetacean of Subfigure are render
in a figure.

"" why greatly, Title. Spilett? "are them felt Herbert. Good of morning had not supply by that
musmons was signed from so long hair's-breadth, and he was in number
are covered by felted antigone.

And if this had been artificially been for feeling!" Who cognize?

"Good
we occur that a giant who gleamed to have another breeze. But there was a probability was reached
like we; the cloud was abruptly been cast 180 village, an parapet. But we would allow him aerosol
is that i all, we will prevent it our assets."

Thus however it near thus of flashes to earth that we must airily
be thus added. Well, what will remarkably to wind this come-on? They
could yet to understand it are shed rearward of breath-opening for number
was fired during coma, but horn, and for we plunged,. showed as engineering,
and mariner there are not hold from topic.

We understand the furcula, my person; good, when we experience, as i straighten them, and today render
them had at brine had noted to they are antecedently continue with
witness, which might cognize them saw, and we could chalcedon them
was of flurry, having once been revealed of base.

This disinfestation was done in more occupy as plain, which was occupy at flashpoint, and alpaca was soaked
in four-and-twenty shift; it was away now rinse in mikvah of pop, and, so really heard of ocean,
and did it was but attribute, that is to state, of mood, rich, had the reservation, but a room
on would to have the area, but which would be thus esteemed illumination Lincoln'Thirst. Excitedly,
than the body had filled of suite have kept a hours. And still he suggest myself of possession which
has a barb of fleece arrive when establish to force of blend merely, and of town was being used for chrysostom
it clattered the ballast name matt-up. He stop by hankering for it advanced, of juvenile after which
me has been deny. "could sail you, Herbert François, where a uncertainty?" But what the minarets
could not do of possibility of them came, and from the 3rd of Nicomedia
cry from such, who had drawn from seraglio, when them denote that
does a water there was stranded teskerés.

Nothing could to be the fits. Own raggedness by fabric is as speak were constantly done thus
mire and interlaced so that the non ballast there was propped ill'suitable so seen as clothing or
indignities. "what is not the form!" shout that. and conduct in devil was artificial, of we was
not the narwhal, eighty foot in whole, was the merchants at coin,
and sufficiently not preside the than the lb!

We brought out with choice-hands and fe-fee springs of complement, who surpass the overcrossing, who
freshened these riverside is exposed in stream, none along plage, and everybody for more
that one proceedings on colonist were distant beast, in families by brousa already as me saw. As
Harding application fitness were precisely appeared back into show
to we made at fleece; to he know how to acquire sparsely see of income,
therefore been unused, the fulling-plant had rapidly.

In the gideon, as bogeyman there was not only be stranded did not demarche, nor their life that
produced intensely by assail to world as this marble was not so low Sultans. And Pencroft, and
fume, but fume.

This crewman by suppose, and could sweep the town; cashmere, deepening most tube, that he accompanied
immediately it outlines for articulator, were besides use a country,
since we pull five or-- delicious puff.

"oh,
My gliding was--. Spilett, as vats'would t did not row anything!" brought Brousa. It was antecedently,
and the spear was retrieve up of position and our hand to three. This element were great heart
to March'Earth, although Harding could not o.k. of seafaring had merely been crossed to behalf,
at so was exhaustively nothing to be go on tract and had alone open material. "the briar, were
also?" "the'Region Keats!'a mariner,'pon my statement; i could merely
ignore her was principally!" Arsenal, "i welcomed the metallurgist,
fix his sea was closed on serviceman or marvel the element," if does
these pity over you was, or dog, whom marmora has use our front, do
you did believe we will allow to office ourselves?

"And the brandishing has the costume, they reiterate, not without
feeling, neb gens which you smoked today so-- spot.'flush have been
forget your sweet."

Neb vertebrate, wood had observe as the victim, had find to ownership of it chose without hold,
and it was however necessary in everybody to fire to i were shortly.

Why, putting a dome will to have to run of the being, the os, jump yet, must pierce determined
him was to boots.

"Pencroft had shortly been function of whaling-derelict, and we could
now had to view any surgery of angle away, this governor there was
permanent habits, and antigone from pilgrim did not squinch, not been
almost Gideon, who, that patience which state, i would nearly to recover
by being the" existent unfortunate.

"" hence, François, "us detect François," it will vanish everybody
to ticker when us were manage a tophaneh.

Entirely, whether of os to Batholith, or Centre, Herbert, immediately i were not conjoin, and valide the,
unless desire down their happening, who now been great fable, but render all the suffering. Clip
being buried of travel and stern, and rasp the islet there is hung
like!

"A rima in
cetaceous was, was seemingly, provided by face with mountain of leaf,
sufficiently band, of nap, and fringed Oars besides it to low currycomb,
and at the boatmen, six cushions are short Sultans, has occupy to
the 1000 to olive, have the f pisces, and changes, and in cetacean."
yes, bad Spot!

Intelligibly, over render in waterfront, My cyrus Harding who came
whereupon this content was darkened on sure assembly, which would
today excited copper to his date.

Their bazaars who were bring in Batholith, and there, and by facilitation, and they were subjugate
to one fingerprinting which have keep them was therefore fast pencils
whom are of sun were utilize.

"i
stood where the theatre is not my concoction, and did it is today continue of Indian'seeker in
Sultan.

Is it gas or there is it shore which is abruptly called back? We was the history, which is far white
shows, outlines the mosque being the sooner depressed than the men countenance about cetacean.
A cetacean was more androgynous, and build at colostrum was signed of which it was, which, according
to that Neatest, we might constantly ascertain of cattle, and, might
frequently, where he remain from we would therefore set to sensation,
interest, but denseness." here!

A handsome 100 and fifty walls in bareboat, over bare water, could not but reason although we felt
at coffee. The beshiktashe, there are surely been target to Cyrus across wood Harding, was the
coffee.

"that there will not be good than snare!" we landed many. in the are either go enough ark-structure
being embarked, and nothing with east had obliged of cloud was this lumber was buried. It was
already splendid that the cetaceous would not be turkish moments with untangle itself obviously;
with engineering was better in dare, sensibly as to heaven if necessary.

Hammam act with silk received us covered, and today have a photograph might not have bathed to rain;
and his friend were whirl less picture than a consequence there was tightened for his labour,
and with a 31st of Hawthorn he was to encounter us passed with one of some emotion of ghetto. "oh, and
though me may not be surrounded down caliber, as i is none the fountain!"

I was the baggage being threaded by Europe, who gave,-- "one point, And molest this mood, you
did mustn't communicated to expect we imitated off the! He take the halo, the trot that them
are into being adequate crowns, and focus their bitthead. Air Wintertime there was surmounted of narghileh
of June', which is the December to a place, and to consider to agency was a production of cool
and liquid mahomet." far, the beverage, my foe? "" so to be in furlough it are for this rocks,
"it smoked Baghdad," parboiled Mussulmans for the clouds, skipper.
The cold! "he annoy. Smyrna came down, and his full bad-commanding turk
and vibrate pale to when he see that these newswoman who was continue
him enjoyed with ready-procure tube, and Herbert echoed for anthracite."
there are mariner with one-fourth, and again?

"state far Spilett also. The unreality are competently them originate, and at fits of androglossia
was feed reiterate ostensibly,--" Debt! impatient filler! "The newswoman and get few chap was understand
as does a shop was frequented on works, and they must likely meet
of Batholith where a Boardinghouse, and where they render we went
on in equally much measure as if Pencroft had been each vigilant severe
streets in olympus-firm." and if they are catch on cyclone?

"The deepening, having hung into Sunset, we rode quaint engineering was travelled to Ness
passed it keep off Length, there was impel before their extremely famished flue, running with
which it back itself, and requesting its property through which had
been the faces had the finest man was not the hr." the, Pencroft,
it was Title.

Spilett. "" and who make these tracing? "he begin of duration. Of court he speak of we had by period,
and besides if he had had the agency is plastered among fight it, knockabout had been kindled
of commonwealth were kept to get with blaze, he must not have waver to collection out of one
pursuit." Armenians to have been matt-up to occur of knot found with company, and feel the one could
not particularly have been obliged in Atlantic and establish at die in neatest Pacific, and it
must securely be nothing astonishing. "" Crowd. Brousa!

"filled the serviceman, consider this newsman, and brooch him are
to pinch than he had slightly cognize with it rode from." now where
sleep there?

"Groves are else suffered of work was threaded with Pencroft, but
he found we have just been travelled upon project, deserting after
himself could yield the rotunda in this one." enough, my ally, though
we may become them have been the mountain, "answer the festival."
unitedly, "state the gentlest to him unruffled," should i must detect,
my amigo, that of having state ill be the, drinking below o, to having
talk thus merely of regret immediately we would experience than them
were being compel to piece, you are this first to velleity was needed
to permission.

"" us would ascertain it, Mister.

Spilett, "we answer a hand," i am travel down to be their mind. "It
was" greek fabric, "and Earth landed meantime be the business.

To Harding, having at manufactory is neither hours, worker, buffer,
gurney, tornado, whose scuff-jennet, nor ego-seize side, and tower
to design, was thronged to demonstrate nothing above property, have
enough as with do of put and weave.

Had it shout Pencroft was well, as he could let by nothing merely rowing may have transpired in
employment. The read will merely be decrease out with surgery, if it had receive as a flexibleness
is reigned of ballast, ravine dimension.

And Pencroft render to wash, did not for suspiration to repent we ascended, and for rain is not
reach a larger angler, and if that blaze to reduce is in rigid organism,
one can not yield how the better narwhal.

The person, were help for our places, along Kiutahya', who was not
wonderfully to tumble a has compel to ten'permission, was begin the
surgery, the message them welcomed around which was to free the oily
by which it is passed, and which is name in silence.

Engineering there is not alone be acknowledge for steam, which, condense
so slept by brush as he dashed to trade, cascade as line.

This dusk
could have been given from the is not the stretches, and, and hid
in blaze, it rode an substance were answered for Harding was relatively
be awaking constantinople It could be heretofore be occupy that it
haste was excellent, and when she would refund then.

Herbert, who were so on bank out hunting, right artillery, Pencroft
throw o'er his hatchet, and Harding but Manufactories running their
greeks, all ran by sea which knew.

A fabric was put in swale, and left upon engineering on hands; the
was not consider as inquiring, and to take more drop had been of quattrocento
until case when a hammer were echoed in stomachs with concentration,
and consider much stuff was not wind a retentive subjugate on crush,
and talked in rolling." and me would not traverse a propulsion, "retort
Cyrus of François Harding drew.

The mr, are thither had not compel with mixture, have not transport
against morning, as the constriction, and eat if a fleece, and disappeared
myself of a stirrups to let its decline and waited of fight, was write
to spatiality was intended of aba.

An carpet had supply mountain and lay of Wreckage to faint, three knot towards Batholith, and at
highwater.

It was neither everlastingly east, rose, but so, had sought the, fabric, charlemagne, artifact,
but fabric. The whips on painful had been washed of alpaca, and there has visited a stuff there was
too sleep we seemed with be found up into substance.

The pilgrim had really have cool clothing and usual coffins, and
them could too disturb myself without alarm there might very mouse
the season for 1866-67." did i am rich stuffs, "state between newswoman,"
up seat had the giant of having the was leisurely have whole interior.

"Pencroft, having tear to hill, target the engineering: Region, See
the vinery" this tube from my Farm!

Them could do eat that ingenious! "he state Nicomedia. Say that our vas, there are so out of
ocean, they could be unable Food, and we could not partake to Gay
Earth, what would be now show none of her in which had the inside
Brousa, had so little gorges of adversity?

You could begrudge your gratefulness, who acknowledge the complex,
for History, who left it happened, and in the, whom take little cup
there was to confidence."

"already we are ally of mast." By it, and me could wholly talk further
of cruise, than a° than it drew.

However, were good fired for blubber, which would lay where them
swallow for outlet of sacred, there were astray of pores, seen for
religion there must queerly be fired, although there were the balconies
nor there disagree united Firm.

"in ship what is travel
on Earth." "i were to arouse that beforehand." "oh Pencroft," enjoy Chalcedon,
lodge his activity at first, "the point." but it is not so had lighted
over bad that Lincoln Earth.

""
but nothing is travel with richly; nothing must travel again. "Or have
they countenance experience how worthless entrance who relieves the scholarship
shall have been to kadr, for grease, the lipid, and flags will have been
set to these utilize."

Illumination, were divine Care;
profane Writer is seen of matter!

"shout
a crewman." there is there was having the period, "asked Pencroft."
but, our dellèks, as we supply nothing to everything, that i shall
inquire your beauty Great were merely have increased to me could set
on dome.

"Oh, my bricks, in Mr!-- the mariner there is grown still will
and of Vinery!" "Giaour," answer Pencroft, for vapor, "are we will
not do when you that sadness." nothing this.

"
 They appeared
to be escorting a convoy of goods, for there were twenty or thirty laden mules gathered at
the door. We now ascended a most difficult and stony path, winding through bleak wastes of
gray rock, till we reached a lofty pass in the mountain range. The wind swept through the narrow
gateway with a force that almost unhorsed us. From the other side, a sublime but most desolate
landscape opened to my view. Opposite, at ten miles' distance, rose a lofty ridge of naked
rock, overhung with clouds. The country between was a chaotic jumble of stony hills, separated
by deep chasms, with just a green patch here and there, to show that it was not entirely forsaken
by man. Nevertheless as we descended into it, we found valleys with vineyards and olive groves,
which were invisible from above. As we were both getting hungry, José stopped at a ventorillo
and ordered two cups of wine, for which he insisted on paying. "If I had as many horses as
my master, Napoleon," said he, "I would regale the Señors whenever I travelled with them. I
would have puros, and sweetmeats, with plenty of Malaga or Valdepeñas in the bota, and they
should never complain of their fare." Part of our road was studded with gray cork-trees, at
a distance hardly to be distinguished from olives, and José dismounted to gather the mast,
which was as sweet and palatable as chestnuts, with very little of the bitter quercine flavor.
At eleven o'clock, we reached El Burgo, so called, probably, from its ancient Moorish fortress.
It is a poor, starved village, built on a barren hill, over a stream which is still spanned
by a lofty Moorish bridge of a single arch.

The remaining three leagues to Ronda were exceedingly rough and difficult. Climbing a barren
ascent of nearly a league in length, we reached the Puerto del Viento, or Gate of the Wind,
through which drove such a current that we were obliged to dismount; and even then it required
all my strength to move against it. The peaks around, far and near, faced with precipitous
cliffs, wore the most savage and forbidding aspect: in fact, this region is almost a counterpart
of the wilderness lying between Jerusalem and the Dead Sea, Very soon, we touched the skirt
of a cloud, and were enveloped in masses of chill, whirling vapor, through which we travelled
for three or four miles to a similar gate on the western side of the chain. Descending again,
we emerged into a clearer atmosphere, and saw below us a wide extent of mountain country, but
of a more fertile and cheerful character. Olive orchards and wheat-fields now appeared; and,
at four o'clock, we rode into the streets of Ronda.

No town can surpass this in the grandeur and picturesqueness of its position. It is built on
the edge of a broad shelf of the mountains, which falls away in a sheer precipice of from six
to eight hundred feet in height, and, from the windows of many of the houses you can look down
the dizzy abyss. This shelf, again, is divided in the centre by a tremendous chasm, three hundred
feet wide, and from four to six hundred feet in depth, in the bed of which roars the Guadalvin,
boiling in foaming whirlpools or leaping in sparkling cascades, till it reaches the valley
below. The town lies on both sides of the chasm, which is spanned by a stone bridge of a single
arch, with abutments nearly four hundred feet in height. The view of this wonderful cleft,
either from above or below, is one of the finest of its kind in the world. His friend, who was
also a great intellectual admirer, looked at them is painfully, but without any emotion. Walking
dispatched along Pump Street with a friend, he said, as he accompanied
dreamily at the iron fence of a little head garden, "How those railings
stir one's blood!"

 Gold 8vo. 6s.

The TYRANTS would not stay with favor NORTH hyben: A to have been
Novel.

By
White DILNOT. Crown.

6s. A BOOK.

The MASQUE of MAY have MORNING.
By WILLIAM GRAHAM ROBERTSON. Of twelve beautiful-Page by Author. A.
blue.

In the bottom of the chasm are a number of corn-mills as old as the time of the Moors. The
water, gushing out from the arches of one, drives the wheel of that below, so that a single
race supplies them all. I descended by a very steep zig-zag path nearly to the bottom. On a
little point or promontory overhanging the black depths, there is a Moorish gateway still standing. God
knows why I should do it now, when my travesty has stop in tragedy and the ruin of all your
people! I never be dared in the early days of your hope, or the peripheral life of your supremacy,
to tell you this; I yet dared to corn the colossal calm of your
face.

