"I don't think he is very likely to come," she said, in a very low tone. Then, with a quick
impulse to clear herself, and an effort which brought the blood in a burning tide to her fair
face, she went on, hurriedly--"Father, you don't think I forgot that he"--and then she almost
broke down, and "Ethel" was the only word that struck distinctly upon his ear.

"You mean," said Mr. Brooke, "that you do not forget that he is going to marry Ethel Kenyon?
Perhaps not; but I think that he does."

"I am not to blame for that," said Lesley, with a flash of the hot temper that occasionally
leaped to light when she was talking with her father.

Brooke made no immediate answer. He took a match box from his pocket, struck a match, and began
to light the wax candles on the mantelpiece--partly by way of finding something to do, partly
because he thought that he should like to see his daughter's face.

It was a very downcast face just then, but it was tinged with the hot flush of mingled pride
and shame with which she had spoken, and never had it looked more lovely. The father considered
it for a moment, less with admiration than with curiosity: this daughter of his was an unknown
quantity: he never could predicate what she would do or say. Certainly she surprised him once
more when she lifted her head, and said, quickly--

"I don't think I understand your English ways. I know what we should do at the convent; but
I never know whether I am right or wrong here. And I have no one to ask."

"There is your Aunt Sophy."

"It is almost impossible to ask Aunt Sophy; she never sees where the difficulty lies. I know
she is kind--but she does not understand what I want."

Caspar nodded. "That is one reason why I spoke to you just now," he said, much more gently
than usual. "I knew that she was a little brusque sometimes; and I suppose I am not much better.
As a rule a father does not talk to his girls as I have been talking to you, I fancy. I am
almost as ignorant of a father's duties to his daughter as you say you are of the habits of
English bourgeois society--for I suppose that is what you mean?"

He smiled a little--the slight smile of a satire which Lesley always dreaded; and yet, she
remembered, his voice had been very kind. It softened again into its gentlest and most musical
tones, as he said--

"You must take us as you find us, child: we shall not do you much harm, and it will not be
for long."

Lesley was emboldened by the gentle intonation to draw closer to him, and to lay an entreating
hand upon his arm.

"Oh, father," she said, "if you would but let me write to mamma!"

And then she uttered a little sob, and the tears filled her eyes and ran down her cheeks. As
for Caspar Brooke, he stood like a man amazed, and repeated her words almost stupidly.

"Write to mamma?" he said.

"It would do me good: it would not do any harm," said Lesley, hurriedly, brokenly, and clasping
his arm with both hands to enforce her plea. "I would not tell her anything that you did not
like: I should never say anything but good about you; but, oh, there are so many things that
puzzle me, and that I should like to consult her about. You see, although I was not much with
her, I used to write to her twice a week, and she wrote to me oftener, sometimes; and I told
her everything, and she used to advise me and help me! And I miss it so much--it is that that
makes me unhappy; it seems so hard never to write and never to hear from her! I feel sometimes
as if I could not bear it; as if I should have to run away to her again and tell her everything!
Nobody is like her--nobody--and to be a year without her is terrible!"

And Lesley put her head down on her father's arm and cried unrestrainedly, with a sort of newborn
instinct that he sympathised with her, and would not repulse her confidence.

As for Caspar Brooke, his face had turned quite pale: he stood like a statue, with features
rigidly set, listening to Lesley's outburst of pleading words. It took him a little time to
find his voice, even when he had at last assimilated the ideas contained in her speech and
regained his self-possession. It took him still longer to recover from a certain shock of surprise.

"Write to your mother!" he exclaimed. "Well, but, of course--why should you not write to your
mother?"

And then Lesley raised her head and looked at him with such amazement and perplexity that her
father felt absolutely annoyed.

"Who on earth put it into your head that you might not write? Am I such a tyrant--such an unfeeling
monster----? Good heavens! what extraordinary idea is this! Who said that you were not to write
to her?"

"My mother herself," said Lesley, drawing herself a little away from him, and still looking
into his face.

"Your mother? Absurd! Why, what--what----"

He faltered, frowned, turned away to the mantelpiece, and struck his hand heavily upon it.

"I never meant that," he said. It seemed as if vexation and astonishment prevented him from
saying more.

"My mother said that it was agreed--years ago--that when I came to you, we were to have no
communication," said Lesley, trembling, and yet resolute to have her say. "Was not that so?"

"I remember something of the sort," he answered, reluctantly, frowning still and looking down.
"I did not think at the time of what it implied. And when the time drew near for you to make
the visit, the question was not raised. We corresponded through a third party--the lawyer,
you know. Perhaps--at the time--I had an idea of preventing letters, but not recently. Nobody
mentioned it. Why"--his anger rising, as a man's anger often does rise when he perceives himself
to have been in the wrong--"your mother might at least have mentioned it if she felt any doubt!"

"I suppose," said Lesley, rather haughtily, "that my mother did not want to ask a favor of you."

He flung himself round at that. "Your mother must have given you a strange idea of me!" he
said, with a mixture of anger and mortification which it humiliated him to show, even while
he could not manage to hide it. "One would have said I was an ogre--a maniac. But she misjudged
me all her life--it is useless to expect anything else--of course she would try to bias you!"

"I never knew that you were even alive until the day that I left the convent," said Lesley.
"My mother certainly did not try to prejudice me before then: she simply kept silence."

"Silence is the worst condemnation? What had I done that I should be separated from my child
so completely?" said the man, the bitterness of years displaying itself in a way as unexpected
to him as to his daughter. "It is not my fault, I swear, that I have lived without a wife,
without--well, well! it is not you to whom I ought to say this. We will not refer to it again.
About this letter writing--I might say, as perhaps I did say at the time the arrangement was
made, that surely I had a right to claim you entirely for one year at least; but I don't--I
won't. If I did ever say so, Lesley, I regret the words exceedingly. Ever since you came to
me, I have had no idea but that you were writing to her regularly and freely; and I never--never
in my right mind--wished it otherwise."

"But mamma talked of an agreement----"

"That was years ago. I must have said something in my heat which the lawyers--the people who
arranged things--interpreted wrongly. And your mother, as you say, did not care to ask me for
anything. I can only say, Lesley, that I am sorry the mistake arose."

His voice was grave and cold again, almost indifferent. He stood with his elbow on the mantelpiece,
his hand supporting his head, his eyes averted from the girl. A close eye might have observed
that the veins of his forehead were swollen, and the pulse at his temple was beating furiously:
otherwise he had mastered all signs of agitation. Lesley hesitated a moment: then came up to
him, and put her slim fingers into his hand.

"Father," she said, softly, "if we have misjudged you--mamma and I--won't you forgive us?"

For answer he took her face between his two hands, bent down and kissed it tenderly.

"You don't remember sitting on my knee when you were a tiny little thing, do you?" he asked
her. "You would not go to sleep at nights without a kiss from me before I went out. You were
rather fond of me then, child! I wish things had turned out differently!"

He spoke sadly, and Lesley returned his kiss with a new feeling of affection of which she had
not been conscious before, but which she would have found it difficult to translate into words.
Before she could manage to reply, the handle of the door was turned, and father and daughter
stood apart as quickly as if they had had no right to stand with arms enlaced and faces almost
touching: indeed, the situation was so new to both of them that they felt something like shame
and alarm as they turned to meet the expected Doctor Sophy.

But it was not Doctor Sophy. It was Sarah with the tea-tray, very resentful at not having had
it rung for earlier--she having been instructed not to bring it up until Miss Lesley rang the
bell. And after Sarah came Mr. Maurice Kenyon, unannounced, after his usual fashion. And on
hearing his voice, Lesley slipped away between the curtains into the library, and upstairs,
through the library door.

"Why, Brooke, old fellow, you're not often to be found here at this hour!" began Maurice. He
looked on Caspar Brooke as a prophet and a hero in his heart; but his manner before the world
was characterized by the frankest irreverence. Brooke was one of those men who are never older
than their companions.

"Well, you must be neglecting your patients shamefully to be here at all. What do you want
at this feminine meal?"

"I didn't come for tea," said Maurice, actually growing a little redder as he spoke. "I came
to see Miss Brooke."

"Oh, she's gone to a meeting of some Medical Association or other," said Caspar, indifferently,
as he sat down in Lesley's place at the dainty tea-table, and poured out a cup of tea with
the manner of a man who was accustomed to serving himself. "Here, help yourself to sugar and
cream."

"Thanks, I won't have any tea. I did not mean your sister: I meant Miss Lesley--I thought I
saw her as I came in."

"Anything important?" said Caspar, blandly. He was certain that Lesley had gone away to cry--women
always cry!--and he did not want her to be disturbed. Although he had quarrelled with his wife,
he understood feminine susceptibilities better than most men.

"Oh, no. Only to ask her to sing at the Club on Sunday. It's my turn to manage the music for
that day, you know. Trent is going to sing too."

"Ah," said Mr. Brooke. Then, after a pause: "I will ask her. But I don't think she will be
able to sing on Sunday. It strikes me she has an engagement."

He could not say to Ethel's brother what was in his mind, and yet he was troubled by the intensity
of his conviction that she was throwing herself away upon "a cad." He must take some other
method in the future of giving Maurice a hint about young Trent.

Maurice thought, not untruly, that there was something odd in his tone.

"Isn't she well?" he asked, with his usual straightforwardness. "I hope there is nothing wrong."

"I did not say there was anything wrong, did I?" demanded Caspar. Then, squaring his shoulders,
and sitting well back in his chair, with his hands plunged into the pockets of his old study
coat, and his eyes fixed on his visitor's face, he thus acquitted himself--"Maurice, my young
friend, I am and have been a most confounded ass."

"Oh?" said Maurice, interrogatively.

"I think it would relieve me--if I weren't out of practice--to swear. But I've preached against
'langwidge' so long at the club that I don't think I could get up the necessary stock of expletives."

"I'll supply you. I shouldn't have thought that there was a lack of them down in your printing
offices about one or two o'clock every morning, from what I've heard. What is it, if I may
ask? Anything wrong with the Football Club?"

"Football Club! My dear fellow, I have a private life, unfortunately, as contradistinguished
from your everlasting clubs and printing offices."

"It is something about Miss Brooke, is it?" said Maurice, with greater interest "I was afraid
there was something----"

"Why?"

"Oh--well, you must excuse me for mentioning it--but wasn't she--wasn't she crying as she went
out of the room? And she has not been looking well for the last month or so."

"I suppose you mean that she is not particularly happy here, with her father?"

Maurice elevated his eyebrows. "Brooke, old man, what have you got into your head?" he asked,
kindly. "You look put out a good bit. Does she say she wants to leave you?"

"Oh, no, no, 'tisn't that. I daresay she does, though. You know the whole story--it is no good
disguising the details from you. There's been a wretched little mistake--all my fault, no doubt,
but not intentionally so: the girl came here with the idea that she might not write to her
mother--some nonsense about 'no communication' between them stood in the way; and it seems
she has been pining to do so ever since she came."

"And she never asked you? never complained, or said anything?"

"She broke down over it to-day. I'm ashamed to look her in the face," said Brooke, vehemently.
"I'm ashamed to think of what they--their opinion of me is. A domineering, flinty-hearted,
unnatural parent, eh, Maurice? Ogre and tyrant and all the rest of it. As if I ever meant to
put a stop to her writing to her mother! I never heard of such an unjustifiable proceeding!
I never thought of such an absurd idea!"

"Then weren't you very much to blame to allow the mistake to arise?" asked Maurice, bluntly.

"Of course I was. That's the abominable and confounded part of it. Some hasty words of mine
were misinterpreted, of course. I told you I had been an ass."

"Well, I hope it is set straight now?"

"As far as I can set it straight. Probably nothing will undo the effect. She'll think that
I was cruel in the first instance if not in the last."

He sat staring at his boots, with a very discontented expression of countenance. But he did
not get much sympathy from Mr. Kenyon.

"Well," he said, "I suppose you've yourself to blame. I've no doubt you have been very hasty,
lots of times. It's my own idea that if you went into detail over a good many actions of your
past life"--this was very significantly said--"you would find that you had been mistaken pretty
often. We all do. And there's one mistake that I think I can point out to you."

Caspar looked at him hard for a moment from under his bushy eyebrows.

"One subject, Kenyon," he said, seriously, "I shall ask you to respect."

"All right," said Maurice. "I am only speaking of your daughter. You must allow me to say that
I think you have misjudged her, ever since she has been in your house for the last three months.
I did just the same, at first. You see, she came here, as far as I can make out, puzzled, ignorant
of the world, deprived of her mother's help and care, thrown on the tender mercies of a father
whom she did not know----"

"And whom she took to be an ogre," said Brooke, with a bitter, little laugh.

"Brought into a world that she knew nothing about, and amongst a set of people who could not
understand why she looked sad and lonely, poor child!----"

"I say, Maurice, you are speaking of my daughter, remember."

"Don't be touchy, old man. I speak and I think of her with every respect. We have all misjudged
and misunderstood her: she is a young girl, little more than a child, and a child astray, pining
uncomplainingly for her mother, doing her best to understand the new world she was thrown into,
devouring your writings and trying as hard as she could to assimilate every good and noble
idea that she came across--I say that she's a saint and a heroine," said Maurice, with sudden
passion and enthusiasm, "and we've forgotten that not a girl in a thousand could have come
through a trying ordeal so well!"

"She hasn't come out of her ordeal at all, Maurice: the ordeal of living in the house of a
brutal father, who, in her view, probably broke her mother's heart: all that has to be proceeded
with for nine months longer!"

"It need not be an ordeal if she knows that you love her: if she writes to her mother and gets
the sympathy and aid she needs. Upon my soul, Brooke, it seems to me that you are hard upon
your daughter!"

"Do you think I need to be taught my duty by you, young man?" said Caspar. He spoke with a
smile, but his tone was undoubtedly sharp. His disciple was not so submissive as he had hitherto
appeared to be.

"Yes, I do," said Maurice, undismayed. "Because I appreciate her and understand her, which
you don't. I was dense at first as you are, but I have learnt better now--through loving her."

"Through what, man?"

"Through loving her. It's the truth, Brooke, as I stand here. I've known it for some little
time. It is only because it may seem too sudden to her and to you that I haven't spoken before,
and I did not mean to do so when I came here this afternoon. But the fact remains, I love Lesley,
and I want her to be my wife."

"Heavens and earth!" said Caspar. "Is the man gone mad!"

CHAPTER XX.

LESLEY'S LETTER.

"Not a bit of it," said Maurice sturdily. "I speak the words of truth and soberness. I've thought
about it for some time."

"A week?"

"I'm in earnest, Brooke. Do you consent?"

"My good man," said Caspar, slowly, "you forget that I am probably the last person in the world
whose consent is of any value."

"Pooh!"

"You may say 'pooh' as much as you like, but the fact remains. When Lesley leaves me, say next
August or September, she goes to her mother and her grandfather, who's an earl, more's the
pity. They have the guardianship, you understand."

"But you have it legally still."

"Hum--no: we had a formal separation. I named the terms, certainly: I was angry at the time,
and was inclined to say that if I might not bring up the child in my own way, neither should
its mother. That was why we compromised by sending her to school--but it was to be a school
of Lady Alice's choice. The year with me afterwards was a suggestion of mine, of course. But
I can't alter what was agreed on then."

"Naturally. But----"

"And as to money affairs," said Caspar, ruthlessly cutting him short, "I have been put all
along into the most painful and ridiculous position that a man can well be in. I offered to
settle a certain income on my wife and daughter: Lady Alice and her father refused to accept
any money from me. I have paid various sums into his bank for Lesley, but I have reason to
believe that they have never touched a farthing of it. You see they've put me at a disadvantage
all round. And what is to be done when she marries, unless she marries with their consent,
I don't quite see. She won't like to offend them or seem ungrateful when they have done so
much for her; and I--according to the account that they will give her--I have done nothing.
So I don't suppose I shall be consulted about her marriage."

"You are her father: you must be consulted."

"Well, as a matter of form! But I expect that she is destined to marry a duke, my dear fellow;
and I call it sheer folly on your part to have fallen in love with her."

"But you don't object, Brooke?"

"I only hope that the destined duke will be half as decent a chap as you are. But I can't encourage
you--Lesley will have to look out for squalls if she engages herself to you."

"May I not speak to her then?" inquired Maurice ruefully. "Not at once, perhaps, you know;
but if I think that I have a chance?"

"Say what you like," said Brooke, with a genial smile; for his ill-humor had vanished in spite
of his apparent opposition to Maurice's suit. "I should like nothing better--for my own part;
but we are both bound to consider Lesley. You know you are a shocking bad match for her. Oh,
I know you are the descendant of kings and all that sort of bosh, but as a matter of fact you
are only a young medico, a general practitioner, and his lordship is bound to think that I
am making something for myself out of the marriage."

"You don't think he'll consent?"

"Never, my dear boy. One mésalliance was enough for him. He has got rid of me, and regained
his daughter; but no doubt he intends to repair her mistake by a grand match for Lesley."

"But perhaps she would not marry the man he chose for her?"

Brooke laughed. "Can't answer for Lesley, I don't know her well enough," he said. "Have you
any notion, now, that she cares for you?"

Maurice shook his head dismally. "Not in the least. I scarcely think she even likes me. But
I mean to try my chance some day."

"I wish you joy," said Lesley's father, with a slight enigmatical smile. "Especially with the
Earl of Courtleroy. Hallo! there's the dinner bell. We have wasted all our time talking up
here: you'll stay and dine?"

"No, thanks--wish I could, but I must dine with Ethel, and go out directly afterwards."

"When is the marriage to take place?" said Caspar, directing a keen glance to the face of his
friend.

"Ethel's? There is nothing settled."

"I say, Maurice, I don't like Trent. He's a slippery customer. I would look after him a bit
if I were you, and put Ethel on her guard. I think I am bound to say as much as that."

"Do you think any harm of him?"

"I think harm of him--unjustly, perhaps. I am not so sure that I know of any. I only want you
to keep your eyes open. Good-bye, old man."

And Caspar Brooke gave his friend's hand such a pressure that Maurice went away satisfied that
Lesley's father, at any rate, and in spite of protest, was upon his side.

Miss Brooke came into dinner at the last moment, so Mr. Brooke and his daughter were saved
the embarrassment of dining alone--for it could not be denied that it would have been embarrassing
after the recent scene, if there had been no third person present to whom they could address
remarks. Miss Brooke's mind was full of the meeting which she had attended, and she gave them
a glowing account of it. Lesley spoke very little, but her face was happier than it had been
for a long time, although her eyes were red. Mr. Brooke looked at her a good deal in a furtive
kind of way, and with more interest than usual. She was certainly a good-looking girl. But
that was not all. Caspar Brooke had passed the period of caring for good looks and nothing
else. Lesley had spirit, intelligence, honesty, endurance, as well as beauty. Well, she might
make a good wife for Maurice after all. For although he had declared that Kenyon was "a shocking
bad match," he was inclined to think in his own heart that Kenyon was too good for his daughter
Lesley.

However, he had a soft corner in his big heart for the little girl who used to sit on his knee
and refuse to go to sleep without his good-night kiss, and he was pleased when she came up
to him before he went out that evening, and timidly put her face up to be kissed, as if she
had still been the child he loved. She had never done that before; and he took it more as a
sign of gratitude for permission to write to Lady Alice than actual affection for himself.

"Are you writing your letter?" he said, touching her cheek half playfully, half caressingly.

"Yes," said Lesley, looking down. "Is there--have you--no message?"

"Why should I have a message? Your mother and I correspond through our lawyer, my dear. But--well,
yes, if you like to say that I am sorry for this mistake of the last few months, you may do
so. I have no doubt that she has missed your letters, and I should like her to understand that
the correspondence was not discontinued at my desire. I regret the mistake."

He said it formally and gravely, and in a particularly icy tone of voice; but Lesley was for
the moment satisfied. She went back to her writing-desk and took up her pen. She had already
written a couple of sheets, but in them her father's name had scarcely been mentioned. Now,
however, she wrote:--

     "You may be wondering, dearest mamma, why I am writing to you in
     this way, because you told me that I must not write, and I have put
     off my explanation until almost the end. I could not bear to be
     without your letters any longer, and to-day I said so to my father.
     I could not help telling him, because I was so miserable. And he
     wishes me to tell you that it was all a mistake, and he is very
     sorry; he never meant to put a stop to our writing to each other,
     and he is very, very sorry that we thought so." Lesley's version
     was not so dignified as her father had intended it to be. "He was
     terribly distressed when he found out that I was not writing to
     you; and called himself all sorts of names--a tyrant and an ogre,
     and asked what we must have thought of him! He was really very much
     grieved about it, and never meant us to leave off writing. So now I
     shall write as often as I please, and you, dearest mamma, will
     write to me too.

     "There is one thing I must say, darling mother, and you will not be
     angry with me for saying it, will you? I think father must be
     different now from what he was in the old days; or else--perhaps
     there may have been a mistake about him, such as there has been
     about the letters! For he is so clever and gentle and kind--a
     little sarcastic now and then, but always good! The poor people at
     the Club (which I told you about in the last sheet) just adore him;
     and they say that he has saved many of them from worse than death.
     And you never told me about his book, dear mamma--'The Unexplored.'
     It is such a beautiful book--surely you think so, although you
     think ill of the writer? Of course you have read it? I have read it
     four times, I think; and I want to ask him about some parts of it,
     but I have never dared--I don't think he even knows that I have
     read it. It has gone through more than twelve editions, and has
     been translated into French and German, so you must have seen it.
     And Mr. Kenyon says it sells by thousands in America.

     "It was Mr. Kenyon who first told me about it, and made me
     understand how blind I was at first to my father's really great
     qualities. I know he is not like grandpapa--he does sometimes seem
     a little rough when compared to grandpapa; but then you always said
     I must not expect every man I met in the world to have grandpapa's
     courtly manners. And it must have been very lonely for you if he
     went out at such funny hours as he does now, and did not breakfast
     or lunch with you! But I am told that all 'journalists keep these
     hours,' and that it is very provincial of me not to know it! It is
     a very different house, and different life, from any that I ever
     saw before; but I am getting accustomed to it now, especially since
     Mr. Kenyon has talked to me.

     "Dearest mother, don't think that I love you one whit the less
     because I am away from you, and am learning to love other people a
     little too. Nobody could be to me what you are, my own dear
     mother.--Your child,

     "LESLEY."

So Lesley's girlish, emotional, indiscreet letter went upon its way to Lady Alice, who was
just then in Eaton Square, and Lesley never dreamt of the tears that it brought to her mother's
eyes.

The letter was a shock to Lady Alice in more ways than one. First, it showed her that on one
point at least she had been mistaken--and it was a point that had long been a very sore one
to her. Caspar had not meant the correspondence between mother and daughter to cease--so he
said now; but she was certain that he had spoken very harshly about it when the arrangement
was first made. He had even affected to doubt whether she had heart enough to care whether
she heard from her child or not. Well, possibly he had altered his views since those days.
Lesley said that he must be different! Poor Lesley! thought Lady Alice, how very little she
knew! She seemed to have been as much fascinated by her father as Lady Alice had been, in days
long past, by Caspar Brooke as a lover; but Lady Alice reflected that she had never thought
of Caspar as good or gentle or "great" in any way. She thought of him chiefly in his relation
to herself, and in that relation he had not been satisfactory. Yes, she remembered well enough
the sarcastic remarks, the odd hours, the discomfort of her solitary meals. Lesley could see
all these points, and yet discover good in the man, and not be disgusted? Lady Alice could
not understand her daughter's impartiality.

Of course--it had occurred to her once or twice--that, being human, she might have been mistaken.
She could have got over the dreariness and discomfort of Caspar's home, if Caspar had but loved
her. Suppose--it was just a remote possibility--Caspar had loved her all the time!

"The child has infected me with her romantic ideas," said Lady Alice, at last, with a faint,
sad smile. "Let me see--what does she say about her friends? The Kenyons--Ethel Kenyon--Mr.
Trent--the clergyman of the parish--Mr. Kenyon--Mr. Kenyon I wonder who the Mr. Kenyon is of
whom she speaks so highly. Surely not a clergyman too? Poor Caspar disliked clergymen so much.
I wonder if Mrs. Romaine is still living in the neighborhood. But no, I remember: she went
out to Calcutta and then to some German baths with her husband. What became of her, I wonder!
If she were friendly with Caspar still, Lesley would be sure to mention her to me!"

And she read the letter through once more. But Lesley had not said a word about Mrs. Romaine:
her heart had been too hot and angry with the remembrance of what Mrs. Romaine's brother had
done, to lead her to say one word about the family.

Lady Alice lingered curiously over Lesley's remarks on "The Unexplored." She had not read the
book herself. She had seen it and heard of it very often--so often that she thought she knew
all that it contained. But for Lesley's sake she resolved to read it now. Perhaps it held strange,
dangerous doctrines, against which her daughter ought to be cautioned. Of course the house
did not contain a copy. But early in the day Lady Alice went to the nearest bookseller's and
bought a copy. The obliging book-seller, who did not know her, remarked that "Brooke's 'Unexplored'"
was always popular, and asked her whether she would like an unbound copy, or one bound in neat
great cloth. Lady Alice took the latter: she had a distaste for paper-covered books.

She read "The Unexplored" in her own room that morning, but of course she was not struck by
it exactly as Lesley had been. The facts which had horrified Lesley were no novelties to her.
She was, in truth, slightly angry that her innocent Lesley should have so much of the great
city's misery and shame laid bare to her. She acknowledged the truth of the portraiture, the
beauty of the descriptions, the eloquence of the author's appeals to the higher classes; but
she acknowledged it with resentment. Why had Caspar written a book of this sort? a book that
taunted the higher classes with their birth, and reproached the wealthy with their riches?
It was rather a disgrace than otherwise, in Lady Alice's aristocratic eyes, to be connected
in any way with the writer of "The Unexplored."

Nevertheless, the book stirred in her the desire to vindicate the worth of her order and of
her sex; and the next day, after having despatched a long and tender letter to Lesley (with
a formal message of thanks to her husband), she went out to call on a lady, who was noted in
her circle as a great philanthropist, and mentioned to her in a timid way that she wished she
could be of any use amongst the poor, but she really did not see what she could do.

Her friend, Mrs. Bexley, was nothing if not practical.

"But, my dearest Lady Alice, you can be of every use in the world," she said. "I am going to
drive to the East End to-morrow morning, to distribute presents at the London Hospital--it
is getting so close to Christmas, you know, that we really must not put it off any longer.
I generally go once a week to visit the children and some of the other patients. Won't you
come with me?"

"I am afraid I should be of very little use," said Lady Alice.

"But we shall not want you to do anything--only to say a kind word to the patients now and
then, and give them things."

"I think I could do that," said Lesley's mother, softly.

She went back to her father's house quite cheered by the unexpected prospect of something to
do--something which should take her out of the routine of ordinary work--something which should
bring her closer (though she did not say it to herself) to the aims and objects of Lesley and
Caspar Brooke.

The visit was a great success. Lady Alice, with her tall, graceful figure, her winning face,
her becoming dress, was a pleasant sight for the weary eyes of the women and children in the
accident wards. Mrs. Bexley was wise enough not to take her near any very painful sights. Lady
Alice talked to some of the little children and gave them toys: she made friends, rather shyly,
with some of the women, and promised to come and see them again. Mrs. Bexley was well known
in the hospital, and was allowed to stay an unusually long time. So it happened that one of
the doctors, coming rather hurriedly into one of the wards, paused at the sight of a lady bending
over one of the children's beds, and looked so surprised that one of the nurses hastened to
explain that the stranger came with old Mrs. Bexley and was going away again directly.

The doctor nodded, and went straight up to the child's bed. Lady Alice, raising herself after
careful arrangement of some wooden animals on the sick child's table, came face to face with
a very handsome man of about thirty, who seemed to be regarding her with especial interest.
He moved away with a slight bow when she looked back at him, but he did not go far. He paused
to chat with another little patient, and Lady Alice noticed that all the small faces brightened
at the sight of him, and that two or three children called him imperiously to their bedsides.
Something about him vaguely interested her--perhaps it was only his pleasant look, perhaps
the affection with which he was regarded, perhaps the expression which his face had worn when
he looked at her. She remembered him so well that she was able when she paid a second visit
to the hospital to describe him to one of the Sisters, and ask his name.

"Kenyon," she repeated, when it was told to her. "I suppose it is not an uncommon name?"

Lesley had spoken of a Mr. Kenyon. It was not this Mr. Kenyon, of course!

But it was "this Mr. Kenyon;" and thus Maurice met the mother of the girl he loved in the ward
of a London hospital, whither Lady Alice had been urged by that impulse towards "The Unexplored,"
of which her husband was the author. And in another ward of the same hospital lay a patient
whose destiny was to influence the fates of both--an insensible man, whose name was unknown
to the nurses, but whom Oliver would have recognized as his brother, Francis Trent.

CHAPTER XXI.

ETHEL REMONSTRATES.

The house in which the Kenyons resided was built on the same pattern as Mr. Brooke's, but it
was in some respects very unlike Mr. Brooke's place of residence. Maurice's consulting-room
and dining-room corresponded, perhaps, to Mr. Brooke's dining-room and study: it was upstairs
where the difference showed itself. Ethel's drawing-room was like herself--a little whimsical,
a little bizarre; pretty, withal, and original, and somewhat unlike anything one had ever seen
before. She was fond of novelties, and introduced the latest fashions in draperies or china
or screens as soon as she could get hold of them; and the result was occasionally incongruous,
though always bright and cheerful-looking.

It was the incongruity of the ornaments and arrangements which chiefly struck the mind of Oliver
Trent as he entered Ethel's drawing-room one afternoon, and stumbled over a footstool placed
where no footstool ought to be.

"I wish," he began, somewhat irritably, as he touched Ethel's forehead with his lips, "that
you would not make your room quite so much like a fancy fair, Ethel."

Ethel raised her eyebrows. "Why, Oliver, only the other day you said how pretty it was!"

"Pretty! I hate the word. As if 'prettiness' could be taken as a test of what was best in art."

"My room isn't 'art,'" pouted Ethel; "it's me."

The sentence might be ungrammatical, but it was strictly true. The room represented Ethel's
character exactly. It was odd, quaint, striking, and attractive. But Oliver was not in the
mood to see its attractiveness.

"It is certainly a medley," he replied, with some incisiveness. "How many styles do you think
are represented in the place? Japanese, Egyptian, Renaissance, Louis Quinze, Queen Anne, Early
Georgian----"

"Oh, no! please don't go on!" cried Ethel, with mock earnestness. "Not Early Georgian, please!
Anything but that!"

"It is all incongruous and out of taste," said Oliver, in an ill-tempered tone, and then he
threw himself into a deep, comfortable lounging chair, and closed his eyes as if the sight
of the room were too much for his nerves.

Ethel remained standing: her pretty mignonne figure was motionless; her bright face was thoughtful
and overcast.

"Do you mean," she said, quietly, "that I am incongruous and out of taste too!"

There was a new note in her voice. Usually it was light and bird-like: now there was something
a little more weighty, a little more serious, than had been heard in it before. Oliver noted
the change, and moved his head restlessly; he did not want to quarrel with Ethel, but he was
ill at ease in her presence, and therefore apt to be exceedingly irritable with her.

"You wrest my words, of course," he answered. "You always do. There's no arguing with--with--a
woman."

"With me you were about to say. Don't spare me. What other accusations have you to bring!"

"Accusations! Nonsense!"

"It is not nonsense, Oliver." Her voice trembled. "I have felt for some time that all was not
right between us. I can't shut my eyes. I must believe what I see, and what I feel. We must
understand one another."

Oliver's eyes were wide open now. He began to see that he had gone a little too far. It would
not do to snub Ethel too much--at least before the marriage. Afterwards--he said to himself--he
should treat her as he felt inclined. But now----

"You are mistaken, Ethel," he said, in a tone of half appeased vexation which he thought very
effective. "What on earth should there be wrong between us! Open your eyes and your ears as
much as you like, my dear child, but don't be misled by what you feel. The wind is in the East,--remember.
You feel a chill, most probably, and you put your malaise down to me."

His tone grew more affectionate as he spoke. He wanted her to believe that he had been suffering
from a mere passing cloud of ill-temper, and that he was already ashamed of it.

"I feel the effects of the weather myself," he said. "I have been horribly depressed all day,
and I have a headache. Perhaps that is why the brightness of your room seemed to hurt my eyes.
You know that I always like it when I am well."

He looked at her keenly, hoping that this reference to possible-ill-health might bring the
girl to his feet, as it had often done before in the case of other women; but it did not seem
to produce the least effect. She stood silent, immobile, with her eyes still fixed upon the
floor. Silence and stillness were so unusual in one of Ethel's vivacious temperament, that
Oliver began to feel alarmed.

"Ethel," he said, advancing to her, and laying his hand upon hers, "what is wrong? What have
I done?"

She shook her head hastily, but made no other reply.

"Look at me," he said, softly.

And then she lifted her eyes. But they wore a questioning and not a trustful look.

"Ethel, dearest, what have I done to offend you? It cannot be my silly comment on your room
that makes you look so grave? Believe me, dear, it came only from my headache and my bad temper.
I am deeply sorry to have hurt you. Only speak--scold me if you like--but do not keep me in
this suspense."

He was skilled in the art of pleading. His pale face, usually so expressionless, took on the
look of almost passionate entreaty.

Ethel was an actress by profession--perhaps a little by nature also--but she was too essentially
simple-hearted to suspect her friends of acting parts in private life, and indeed trusted them
rather more implicitly than most people trust their friends. It had been a grief to her to
doubt Oliver's faith for a moment, and her eyes filled with tears, while they flashed also
with indignation, as she replied,

"You must know what I mean. I have felt it for a very long time. You do not care for me as
you used to do."

"Upon my soul, I do!" cried Oliver, very sincerely.

"Then you never cared for me very much."

This was getting serious. Oliver had no mind to break off his engagement. He reserved the right
to snub Ethel without giving offence. If this was an impracticable course to pursue, it was
evident that he must abandon it and eat humble pie. Anything rather than part from her just
now. He had lost the woman he loved: it would not do to lose also his only chance of winning
a competency for himself and immunity from fear of want in the future.

"Ethel," he said, softly, "you grieve me very much. I acknowledge my faults of temper--I did
not think you mistook then for a want of love."

"I do not think I do. It is something more real, more tangible than that."

"What is it, dear?"

She paused, then looked keenly into his face. "It seems to me, Oliver, that Lesley Brooke has
won your heart away from me."

He threw back his head and laughed--a singularly jarring and unpleasant laugh, as it seemed
to her. "What will you imagine next?" he said.

"Imagine? Have I imagined it? Isn't it true that you have been at her house almost every day
for the last three or four weeks? Do you come here as often? Is it not Lesley that attracts
you?--not me!"

"Oh, so you are jealous!"

"Yes, I suppose I am. It is only natural, I think."

They faced each other for a moment, defiantly, almost fiercely. There was a proud light in
Ethel's eyes, a compression of the lips which told that she was not to be trifled with. Oliver
stood pale, with frowning brows, and eyes that seemed to question both the reality of her feeling
and the answer that he should make to her demand. It was by a great effort of self-control
that at last he answered her with calmness--

"I assure you, Ethel, you are utterly mistaken. What have I in common with a girl like Miss
Brooke--one of the most curiously ignorant and wrong-headed persons I ever came across? Can
you think for a moment that I should compare her with you?--you, beautiful and gifted and cultured
above most women?"

"That is nothing to the point," said Ethel, quickly. "Men don't love women because of their
gifts and their culture."

"No," he rejoined, "but because of some subtle likeness or attractiveness which draws one to
the other. I find it in you, without knowing why. You--I hoped--found it----"

His voice became troubled; he dropped his eyes. Ethel trembled--she loved him, poor girl, and
she thought that he suffered as she had suffered, and she was sorry for him. But her outraged
pride would not let her make any advance as yet.

"I may be a fatuous fool," said Oliver, after an agitated pause, "but I thought you loved me."

"I do love you," cried Ethel, passionately.

"And yet you suspect me of being false to you."

"Not suspect--not suspect"--she said, incoherently, and then, was suddenly folded in Oliver's
arms, and felt that the time for reproach or inquiry had gone by.

She was not sorry that matters had ended in this way, although she felt it to be illogical.
With his kisses upon her mouth, with the pressure of his arm enfolding her, it was almost impossible
for her to maintain, in his presence, a doubt of him. It was when he had gone that all the
facts which he had ignored came back to her with torturing insistence, and that she blamed
herself for not having refused to be reconciled to him until she had ascertained the truth
or untruth of a report that had reached her ears.

With a truer lover she might have gone unsatisfied to her dying day. A faithful-hearted man
might never have perceived where she was hurt; he would not have been astute enough to discover
that he might heal the wound by a few timely words of explanation. Oliver, keenly alive to
his own interests, reopened the subject a few days later of his own accord.

They had completely made up their quarrel--to all outward appearance, at any rate--and were
sitting together one afternoon in Ethel's obnoxious drawing-room. They had been laughing together
at some funny story of Ethel's associates at the theatre, and to the laughter had succeeded
a silence, during which Oliver possessed himself of the girl's hand and carried it gently to
his lips.

"Ethel," he said, softly, "what made you so angry with me the other day?"

"Your bad behavior, I suppose!" she said, trying to treat the matter in her usual lively fashion.

"But what was my misbehavior? Did it consist in going so often to the Brookes'?"

"Oh, what does it matter?" exclaimed Ethel, petulantly. "Didn't we agree to forgive and forget?
If we didn't, we ought to have done. I don't want to look back."

"But you are doing an injustice to me. Ethel, I dare not say to you that I insist on knowing
what it was. But I very strongly wish that you would tell me--so that I might at least try
to set your mind at rest."

"Well," said Ethel, quickly, "if you must know--it was only a bit of gossip--servants gossip.
I know all that can be said respecting the foolishness of listening to gossip from such a source--but
I can't help it. One of the maids at Mr. Brooke's----"

"Sarah?" asked Oliver, with interest. "Sarah never liked me."

"Who, it was not Sarah.--it was that maid of Lesley's--Kingston her name is, I believe--who
said to one of our servants one day that you went there a great deal oftener than she would
like, if she were in my place. There! I have made a full confession. It was a petty spiteful
bit of gossip, of course, and I ought not to have listened to it--but then it seemed so natural--and
I thought it might be true!"

"What seemed natural?" said Oliver, who, against his will, was looking very black.

"Why, that you should like Lesley; she is the sweetest girl I ever came across."

In his heart Oliver echoed that opinion, but he felt morally bound to deny it.

"You say so only because you have never seen yourself! My darling, how could you accuse me
merely on servants' evidence!"

"Is there no truth in it, Oliver?"

"None in the least."

"But you do go there very often!"

Then Oliver achieved a masterpiece of diplomacy. "My dear Ethel," he said, "I will go there
no more until you go with me. I will not set foot in the house again."

He knew very well that Mr. Brooke would not admit him. It was clever to make a virtue of necessity.

"No, no, please don't do that! Go as often as you please."

"It was simply out of kindness to a lonely girl. I played her accompaniments for her sometimes,
and listened to her singing. But as you dislike it, Ethel, I promise you that I will go there
no more."

"Oh, Oliver, forgive me! I don't doubt you a bit. Do go to see Lesley as often as you can.
I should like you to do it. Go for my sake."

But Oliver was quite obdurate. No, he would not go to the Brookes' again, since Ethel had once
objected to his going. And on this pinnacle of austere virtue he remained, thereby reducing
Ethel to a state of self-abasement, which spoke well for his chances of mastery in the married
life which loomed before him.

CHAPTER XXII.

LADY ALICE'S PHILANTHROPY.

Meanwhile, Lady Alice Brooke, in pursuit of her new fancy for philanthropy and the sick poor,
had wandered somewhat aimlessly into other wards beside those set apart for women and children--at
first the object of her search. She strayed--I use the word "strayed" designedly, for she certainly
did not do it of set purpose--with one of the nurses into accident wards, into the men's wards,
where her flowers and fruits and gentle words made her welcome, and where the bearded masculine
faces, worn sometimes by pain and privation of long standing, appealed to her sensibilities
in a new and not altogether unpleasant way.

For Lady Alice was a very feminine creature, and liked, as most women do like, to be admired
and adored. She had confessed as much when she told the story of her life to her daughter Lesley.
And she had something less than her woman's due in this respect. Caspar Brooke had very honestly
loved and admired her, but in a protective and slightly "superior" way. The earl, her father,
belonged to that conservative portion of the aristocratic class which treats its womankind
with distinguished civility and profoundest contempt. In her father's home Lady Alice felt
herself of no account. As years increased upon her, the charm of her graceful manner was marred
by advancing self-distrust. In losing (as she, at least, thought) her physical attractions,
she lost all that entitled her to consideration amongst the men and women with whom she lived.
She had no fixed position, no private fortune, nothing that would avail her in the least when
her father died; and the gentle coldness of her manner did not encourage women to intimacy,
or invite men to pay her attentions that she would scorn. In any other situation, her natural
gifts and virtues would have fairer play. As a spinster, she would still have had lovers; as
a widow, suitors by the dozen; as a happily married woman she would have been courted, complimented,
flattered, by all the world. But, as a woman merely separated from a husband with whom she
had in the first instance eloped, living on sufferance, as it were, in her father's house,
"neither maid, wife, nor widow," she was in a situation which became more irksome and more
untenable every year.

To a woman conscious of such a jar in her private life, it was really a new and delightful
experience to find herself in a place where she could be of some real use, where she was admired
and respected and flattered by that unconscious flattery given us sometimes by the preference
of the sick and miserable. The men in one of the accident wards were greatly taken with Lady
Alice. There was her title, to begin with; there were her gracious accents, her graceful figure,
her gentle, beautiful face. The men liked to see her come in, liked to hear her talk--although
she was decidedly slow, and a little irresponsive in conversation. It soon leaked out, moreover,
that material benefits followed in the wake of her visits. One man, who left the hospital,
returned one day to inform his mates that, "the lady" had found work for him on her father's
estate, and that he considered himself a "made man for life." The attentions of such men who
were not too ill to be influenced by such matters were henceforth concentrated upon Lady Alice;
and she, being after all a simple creature, believed their devotion to be genuine, and rejoiced
in it.

With one patient, however, she did not for some time establish any friendly relations. He had
been run over, while drunk, the nurses told her, and very seriously hurt. He lay so long in
a semi-comatose condition that fears were entertained for his reason, and when the mist gradually
cleared away from his brain, he was in too confused a state of mind for conversation to be
possible.

Lady Alice went to look at him from time to time, and spoke to the nurse about him; but weeks
elapsed before he seemed conscious of the presence of any visitor. The nursing sister told
the visitor at last that the man had spoken and replied to certain questions: that he had seemed
uncertain about his own name, and could not give any coherent account of himself. Later on,
it transpired that the man had allowed his name to be entered as "John Smith."

"Not his own name, I'm certain," the nurse said, decidedly.

"Why not?" Lady Alice asked, with curiosity.

"It's too common by half for his face and voice," the Sister answered, shrewdly. "If you look
at him or speak to him, you'll find that that man's a gentleman."

"A gentleman--picked up drunk in the street?"

"A gentleman by birth or former position, I mean," said the Sister, rather dryly. "No doubt
he has come down in the world; but he has been, at any rate, what people call an educated man."

Lady Alice's prejudices were, stirred in favor of the broken-down drunkard by this characterization;
and she made his acquaintance as soon as he was able to talk. Her impression coincided with
that of the Sister. The man had once been a gentleman--a cultivated, well-bred man, from whom
refinement had never quite departed. Over and above this fact there was something about him
which utterly puzzled Lady Alice. His face recalled to her some one whom she had known, and
she could not imagine who that some one might be. The features, the contour the face, the expression,
were strangely familiar to her. For, by the refining forces which sickness often applies, the
man's face had lost all trace of former coarseness or commonness: it had become something like
what it had been in the days of his first youth. And the likeness which puzzled Lady Alice
was a very strong resemblance to the patient's sister, Rosalind Romaine.

Lady Alice was attracted by him, visited his bedside very often, and tried to win his confidence.
But "John Smith" had, at present, no confidence to give. Questions confused and bewildered
him. His brain was in a very excitable condition, the doctor said, and he was not to be tormented
with useless queries. By the time his other injuries had been cured, he might perhaps recover
the full use of his mind, and could then give an account of himself if he liked. Till then
he was to be let alone; and so Lady Alice contented herself with bringing him such gifts as
the authorities allowed, and with talking or reading to him a little from time to time in soothing
and friendly tones. It was to be noted that before long his eyes followed her with interest
as she crossed the ward; that his brow cleared when she spoke to him, and that all her movements
were watched by him with great intentness. In spite of this she could not get him to reply
with anything but curtness to her inquiries after his health and general welfare; and it was
quite a surprise to her when one day, on her visit to him, he accosted her of his own accord.

"Won't you sit down?" he said suddenly.

"Thank you. Yes, I should like to sit and read to you a little if you are able----"

"It isn't for that," he said, interrupting her unceremoniously; "it's because I have something
special to say to you. If you'll stoop down a moment I'll say it--I don't want any one else
to hear."

In great surprise, Lady Alice bowed her head. "I want to tell you," he said gruffly, "that
you're wasting your time and your money. These men in the ward are not really grateful to you
one bit. They speculate before you come as to how much you are likely to give them, and when
you are gone they compare notes and grumble if you have not given them enough."

"I do not wish to hear this," said Lady Alice, with dignity.

"I know you do not; but I think it is only right to tell you. Try them: give them nothing for
a visit or two, and see whether they won't sulk and look gloomy, although you may talk to them
as kindly as ever----"

"And if they did," said Lady Alice, with a sudden flash of energy and insight which amazed
herself, "who could blame them, considering the pain they have suffered, and the brutal lives
they lead? Why should they listen to my poor words, if I go to them without a gift in my hand?"

She spoke as she would have spoken to an equal--an unconscious tribute to the refinement which
stamped this man as of a higher calibre than his fellows.

"It is a convenient doctrine for them," said John Smith, and buried his head in the bedclothes
as if he wanted to hear nothing more.

For Lady Alice's next two visits he would not look up, or respond when she came near him, which
she never failed to do; but on the third occasion he lifted his head.

"Well, madam," he said, "you have after all been trying my plan, I hear. Do you find that it
works well?"

Lady Alice hesitated. The averted faces and puzzled, downcast--sometimes sullen--looks of the
sick men and boys to whom she had of late given nothing but kind words, had grieved her sorely.

"I suppose it proves the truth, in part, of what you say," she answered gently, "but on the
other hand I find that my gifts have been judged excessive and unwise. It seems that I have
a great deal to learn in the art of giving: it does not come by nature, as some suppose. I
have consulted the doctors and nurses--and I have to thank you for giving me a warning."

A look of surprise passed across the man's face.

"You're better than some of them," he said, curtly. "I thought you'd never look at me again.
I don't know why I should have interfered. But I did not like to see you cheated and laughed at."

Lady Alice colored, but she felt no resentment against the man, although he had shown her that
she had made herself ridiculous when she was bent on playing Lady Bountiful, and posing as
an angel of light. She said after a moment's pause--

"I believe you meant kindly. Is there nothing that I can do for you?"

He shook his head. "I don't think so--I can't remember very well. The doctors say I shall remember
by and by. Then I shall know."

"And if I can, you will let me help you?"

"I suppose I ought to be only too glad," said the patient, with a sort of sullenness, which
Lady Alice felt that she could but dimly understand. "I suppose I'm the sort of man to be helped;
and yet I can't help fancying there's a--Past--a Past behind me--a life in which I once was
proud of my independence. But it strikes me that this was very long ago."

He drew the bedclothes over his head again, and made no further reply. Lady Alice came to see
him after this conversation as often as the rules of the hospital would allow her; and, although
she seemed to get little response from him, the fact really remained that she was establishing
an ascendancy over the man such as no nurse or doctor in the place had yet maintained. Others
noticed it beside herself; but she, disheartened a little by her disappointment in some of
the other patients, did not recognize the reality of his attachment to her. And an event occurred
about the time which put John Smith and hospital matters out of her head for a considerable
time to come.

Old Lord Courtleroy died suddenly. He was an old man, but so hale and hearty that his death
had not been expected in the least; but he was found dead in his bed one morning, and the doctors
pronounced that his complaint had been heart disease. The heir to the title and estate was
a distant cousin whom Lady Alice and her father had never liked; and when he entered upon his
possessions, Lady Alice knew that the time had come for her to seek a home elsewhere. She had
sufficient to live upon; indeed, for a single woman, she was almost rich; but the loneliness
of her position once more forced itself upon her, especially as Lesley was not by her side
to cheer her gradually darkening life.

She wrote the main facts concerning Lord Courtleroy's death and the change in her circumstances
in short, rather disjointed letters to Lesley, and received very tender replies; but even then
she felt a vague dissatisfaction with the girl's letters. They were full of a wistfulness which
she could not understand: she felt that something remote had crept into them, some aloofness
for which she could not account. And as Captain Harry Duchesne happened to come across her
one day, and inquired very particularly after Miss Brooke, she induced him to promise to call
on Lesley when he was in London, and to report to her all that Lesley did or said. If it was
a somewhat underhand proceeding, she told herself that she was justified by her anxiety as
a mother.

Lord Courtleroy had left a considerable sum to Lesley, and when mother and daughter were reunited,
as Lady Alice hoped that they would shortly be, there was no question as to their having means
enough and to spare. Lady Alice began to dream of a dear little country house in Sussex, with
an occasional season in London, or a winter at Bagnères. She was recalled from her dreams to
the realities of life by a letter from her husband. Caspar Brooke wrote to ask whether, under
present circumstances, she would not return to him.

CHAPTER XXIII.

CAPTAIN DUCHESNE.

Lesley's life seemed to her now much less lonely than it had been at first. The consciousness
of having made friends was pleasant to her, although her affection for Ethel had been for a
time overshadowed by the recollection of Oliver's unfaithfulness. But when this impression
passed away, as it gradually did, after the scene that had been so painful to her, she consoled
herself with the belief that Oliver's words and actions had proceeded from a temporary derangement
of judgment, for which he was not altogether responsible, and that he had returned to his allegiance;
therefore she might continue to be friendly with Ethel without any sensation of treachery or
shame. An older woman than Lesley would not, perhaps, have argued in this way: she would have
suspected the permanence of Oliver's feelings more than Lesley did. But, being only an inexperienced
girl, Lesley comforted herself by the fact that Oliver now avoided her; and said that it could
not be possible for her to have attracted him away from Ethel, who was so winning, so sweet,
so altogether delightful.

Then, apart from the Kenyons, she began to make pleasant acquaintances amongst her father's
friends. Caspar Brooke's house was a centre of interest and entertainment for a large number
of intellectual men and women; and Lesley had as many opportunities for wearing her pretty
evening gowns as she could have desired. There were "at homes" to which her charming presence
and her beautiful voice attracted Caspar's friends in greater numbers than ever: there were
dinner-parties where her interest in the new world around her made everything else interesting;
and there was a constant coming and going of people who had work to do in the world, and who
did it with more or less success, which made the house in Woburn Place anything but a dull abode.

The death of her grandfather distressed her less from regret for himself than from anxiety
for her mother's future. Lady Alice's notes to her were very short and somewhat vaguely worded.
It was, therefore, with positive joy that, one afternoon in spring, she was informed by her
maid that Captain Duchesne was in the drawing-room, for she felt sure that he would be able
to tell her many details that she did not know. She made haste to go down, and yet, before
she went, she paused to say a word to Kingston, who had brought her the welcome news.

"I wish you would go out, Kingston; you don't look at all well, and this spring air might do
you good."

It was certainly easy to see that Kingston was not well. During the past few weeks her face
had become positively emaciated, her eyes were sunken, and her lips were white. She looked
like a person who had recently passed through some illness or misfortune. Lesley had tried,
delicately and with reserve, to question her; but Kingston had never replied to any of her
inquiries. She would shut up her lips, and turn away with the look of one who could keep a
secret to the grave.

"Nothing will do me good, ma'am," she answered dryly.

"Oh, Kingston, I am so sorry!"

"Go down to your visitor, ma'am, and don't mind me," said Kingston, turning her back on the
girl with unusual abruptness. "It isn't much that I've got to be sorry for, after all."

"If there is anything I can do to help you, you will let me know, will you not?" said Lesley.

But Kingston's "Yes, ma'am," fell with a despairing cadence on her ear.

Kingston had been to her husband's lodgings only to find that he had disappeared. He had left
some of his clothes, and the few articles of furniture that belonged to his wife, and had never
said that he was going away. The accident that had made Francis Trent a patient at the hospital
where Lady Alice visited was of course unknown to his landlady, as also to his wife. And as
his memory did not return to him speedily, poor Mary Trent had been left to suffer all the
tortures of anxiety for some weeks. At first she thought that some injury had happened to him--perhaps
that he was dead: then a harder spirit took possession of her, and she made up her mind that
he had finally abandoned her--had got money from Oliver and departed to America without her.
She might have asked Oliver whether this were so, but she was too proud to ask. She preferred
to eat out her heart in solitude. She believed herself deserted forever, and the only grain
of consolation that remained to her was the hope of making herself so useful and acceptable
to Lesley Brooke, that when Lesley married she would ask Mary Kingston to go with her to her
new home.

Kingston had made up her mind about the man that Lesley was to marry. She had seen him come
and go: she had seen him look at her dear Miss Lesley with ardently admiring eyes: she believed
that he would be a true and faithful husband to her. But she knew more than Lesley was aware
of yet.

Lesley went slowly down into the drawing-room. She remembered Captain Duchesne very well, and
she was glad to think of seeing him again. And yet there was an indefinable shrinking--she
did not know how or why. Harry Duchesne was connected with her old life--with the Paris lights,
the Paris drawing-rooms, the stately old grandfather, the graceful mother--the whole assembly
of things that seemed so far away. She did not understand her whole feeling, but it suddenly
appeared to her as if Captain Duchesne's visit was a mistake, and she had better get it over
as soon as possible.

It must be confessed that this sensation vanished as soon as she came into the actual presence
of Captain Duchesne. The young man, with his grave, handsome features, his drooping, black
moustache, his soldierly bearing, had an attraction for her after all. He reminded her of the
mother whom she loved.

It was not very easy to get into conversation with him at first. He seemed as ill at ease as
Lesley herself had been. But when she fell to questioning him about Lady Alice, his tongue
became unloosed.

"She does not know exactly what to do. She talks of taking a house in London--if you would
like it."

"Would mamma care to live in London?"

"Not for her own sake: for yours."

"But I--I do not think I like London so much," said Lesley, with a swift blush and some hesitation.
Captain Duchesne looked at her searchingly.

"Indeed? I understood that you had become much attached to it. I am sure Lady Alice thinks so."

"I do love it--yes, but it is on account of the people who live in London," said Lesley.

"Ah, you have made friends?"

"There is my father, you know."

"Yes." And something in his tone made Lesley change the subject hurriedly. Captain Duchesne
would never have been so ill-bred as to speak disparagingly of a lady's father to her face;
and yet she felt that there was something disparaging in the tone.

"Have you seen the present Lord Courtleroy?" she asked.

"Yes; I have met him once or twice. He is somewhat stiff and rigid in appearance, but he is
very courteous--more than courteous, Lady Alice tells me, for he is kind. He wishes to disturb
her as little as possible--entreats her to stay at Courtleroy, and so on; but naturally she
wishes to have a house of her own."

"Of course. But I thought that she would prefer the South of France."

"If I may say so without offence," said Captain Duchesne, smiling, "Lady Alice's tastes seem
to be changing. She used to love the country and inveigh against the ugliness of town; but
now she spends her time in visiting hospitals and exploring Whitechapel----"

Lesley almost sprang to her feet. "Oh, Captain Duchesne, are you in earnest?"

"Quite in earnest."

"Oh, I am so glad!"

"Why, may I ask?" said Duchesne, with real curiosity. But Lesley clasped her hands tightly
together and hung her head, feeling that she could not explain to a comparative stranger how
she felt that community of interests might tend to a reconciliation between the long separated
father and mother. And in the rather awkward pause that followed, Miss Ethel Kenyon was announced.

Lesley was very glad to see her, and glad to see that she looked approvingly at Captain Duchesne,
and launched at once into an animated conversation with him. Lesley relapsed almost into silence
for a time, but a satisfied smile played upon her lips. It seemed to her that Captain Duchesne's
dark eyes lighted up when he talked to Ethel as they had not done when he talked to her; that
Ethel's cheeks dimpled with her most irresistible smile, and that her voice was full of pretty
cadences, delighted laughter, mirth and sweetness. Lesley's nature was so thoroughly unselfish,
that she could bear to be set aside for a friend's sake; and she was so ingenuous and single-minded
that she put no strained interpretation on the honest admiration which she read in Harry Duchesne's
eyes. It may have been partly in hopes of drawing her once more into the conversation that
he turned to her presently with a laughing remark anent her love of smoky London.

"Oh, but it is not the smoke I like," Lesley answered. "It is the people."

"Especially the poor people," put in Ethel, saucily. "Now, I can't bear poor people; can you,
Captain Duchesne?"

"I don't care for them much, I'm afraid."

"I like to do them good, and all that sort of thing," said Ethel. "Don't look so sober, Lesley!
I like to act to them, or sing to them, or give them money; but I must say I don't like visiting
them in the slums, or having to stand too close to them anywhere. I am so glad that you agree
with me, Captain Duchesne!"

And not long afterwards she graciously invited him to call upon her on "her day," and promised
him a stall at an approaching matinee, two pieces of especial favor, as Lesley knew.

Captain Duchesne sat on as if fascinated by the brilliant little vision that had charmed his
eyes; and not until an unconscionable time had elapsed did he seem able to tear himself away.
When he had gone, Ethel expressed herself approvingly of his looks and manners.

"I like those soldierly-looking men," she said. "So well set up and distinguished in appearance.
Is he an old friend of yours, Lesley?"

"No, I have met him only once before. In Paris, he dined with us--with my grandfather, my mother,
and myself."

"And he comes from Lady Alice now?"

"Yes, to bring me news of her."

Ethel nodded her bright little head sagaciously.

"It's very plain what Lady Alice wants, then?"

"What?" said Lesley, opening her eyes in wide amaze.

"She wants you to marry him, my dear."

"Nonsense!"

"It's not nonsense: don't get so red about it, you silly girl. What a baby you are, Lesley."

"I am sure mamma never thought of anything of the kind," said Lesley, with dignity, although
her cheeks were still red.

"We shall see what we shall see. Well, I won't put my oar in--isn't that kind of me? But, indeed,
your Captain Duchesne looks thoroughly ripe for a flirtation, and it will be as much as I can
do to keep my hands off him."

"How would Mr. Trent like that?" said Lesley, trying to carry the war into the enemy's camp.

"He would bear it with the same equanimity with which he bears the rest of my caprices," said
Ethel, merrily; but a shade crossed her brow, and she allowed Lesley to lead the conversation
to the subject of her trousseau.

Captain Duchesne did not seem slow to avail himself of the favor accorded to him. He presented
himself at Ethel's next "at home;" and devoted himself to her with curious assiduity. Even
the discovery of her engagement to Mr. Trent did not change his manner. It was not so much
that he paid her actual attention, as that he paid none to anybody else. When she was not talking
to him, he kept silence. He seemed always to be observing her, her face, her manner, her dress,
her attitude. Yet this kind of observation was quite respectful and unobtrusive: it was merely
its continuity that excited remark. Oliver noticed it at last, and professed himself jealous:
in fact he was a little bit jealous, although he did not love Ethel overmuch. But he had a
pride of possession in her which would not allow him to look with equanimity on the prospect
of her being made love to by anybody else.

Ethel enjoyed the attentions, and enjoyed Oliver's jealousy, in her usual spirit of childlike
gaiety. She was quite assured of Oliver's affection for her now; and she looked forward with
shy delight to the day of her wedding, which had been fixed for the twentieth of March.

Meanwhile, Oliver was devoured with secret anxiety. For what had become of Francis, and when
would he appear to demand the money which had been promised to him on the day when the marriage
should take place?

CHAPTER XXIV.

MR. BROOKE'S DESIRES.

Lady Alice's movements were not without interest to Caspar Brooke, although Lesley did not
suspect the fact. It was quite a surprise to her when he entered the library one day, with
apparently no other object than that of saying abruptly,

"What is your mother going to do, Lesley?"

"To do?" said Lesley, flushing slightly and looking astonished.

"Yes"--impatiently. "Where is she going to live? What will become of her? Do you want to go
to her? I wish to hear what you know about her arrangements."

He planted himself on the hearth-rug in what might be termed an aggressive attitude--really
the expression of some embarrassment of feeling. It certainly seemed hard to him at that moment
to have to ask his daughter these questions.

"I think," said Lesley, with downcast eyes, "that she is trying to find a house to suit her
in Mayfair."

"Mayfair. Then half her income will go in rent and taxes. Will she live there alone?"

"Yes. At least--unless--until----"

"Until you join her: I understand. Will"--and then he made a long pause before continuing--"if
she wants you to join her at once; and you wish to go, don't let this previous arrangement
stand in the way. I shall not interfere."

His curtness, his abruptness, would once have startled and terrified Lesley. She had of late
grown so much less afraid of him, that now she only lifted her eyes, with a proud, grieving
look in them, and said,

"Do you want me to go away, then?"

"Want you to go? Certainly not, child," and Mr. Brooke stretched out his hand, and drew her
to him with a caressing gesture. "No: I like to have you here. But I thought you wanted to
go to her."

"So I do," said Lesley, the tears coming to her eyes. "But--I want to stay, too. I want"--and
she put both hands on his arms with a gesture as affectionate as his own--"I want my father
and mother both."

"I'm afraid that is an impossible wish."

"But why should it be?" said Lesley, looking up into his face beseechingly.

His features twitched for a moment with unwonted emotion. "You know nothing about it," he said--but
he did not speak harshly. "You can't judge of the circumstances. What can I do? Even if I asked
her she would not come back to me."

And then he put his daughter gently from him and went down to his study, where he paced up
and down the floor for a good half-hour, instead of settling down as usual to his work.

But Lesley's words were not without their effect, although he had put them aside so decidedly.
With that young, fair face looking so pleadingly into his own, it did not seem impossible that
she should form a new tie between himself and his wife. Of course he had always known that
children were conventionally supposed to bind the hearts of husband and wife to each other;
but in his own case he had not found that a daughter produced that result. On the contrary,
Lesley had been for many years a sort of bone of contention between himself and his wife; and
he had retained a cynical sense of the futility of such conventional utterances, which were
every day contradicted by barefaced facts.

But now he began to acknowledge that Lesley was drawing his heart closer to his wife. The charm
of a family circle began to rise before him. Pleasant, indeed, would it be to find that his
dingy old house bore once more the characteristics of a home; that womankind was represented
in it by fairer faces and softer voices than the face and voice even of dear old Doctor Sophy,
with her advanced theories, her committees, and her brisk disregard of the amenities of life.
Yes, he would give a good deal to see Alice--it was long since he had thought of her by that
name--established in his drawing-room (which she should refurbish and adorn to her heart's
content), with Lesley by her side, and himself at liberty to stroll in and out, to be smiled
upon, and--yes, after all, this was his dearest wish--to dare to lavish the love of which his
great heart was full upon the wife and child whose loss had been the misfortune of his life.

As he thought of the past years, it seemed to him that they had been very bleak and barren.
True, he had done many things; he had influenced many people, and accomplished some good work;
but what had he got out of it for himself? He was an Individualist at heart, as most men are,
and he felt conscious of a claim which the world had not granted. It was almost a shock to
him to feel the egoistic desire for personal happiness stirring strongly within him; the desire
had been suppressed for so long, that when it once awoke it surprised him by its vitality.

The outcome of these reflections was seen in a letter written that day after his talk with
Lesley. He seated himself at last at his writing-table, and after some minutes' thought dashed
off the following epistle. He did not stop for a word, he would not hesitate about the wording
of sentences: it seemed to him that if he paused to consider, his resolution might be shaken,
his purpose become unfixed.

     "My Dear Alice," he wrote--"I hear from Lesley that you are looking
     for a house. Would it not be better for us all if you made your
     home with me again? Things have changed since you left me, and I
     might now be better able to consult your tastes and wishes than I
     was then. We are both older and, I hope, wiser. Could we not manage
     to put aside some of our personal predilections and make a home
     together for our daughter? I use this argument because I believe it
     will have more weight with you than any other: at the same time, I
     may add that it is for my own sake, as well as for Lesley's, that I
     make the proposition. Your affectionate husband,

     "CASPAR BROOKE."

It was an odd ending, he thought: he had certainly not shown himself an affectionate husband
to her for many years. But there was truth in the epithet: little as she might believe it,
or as it might appear. He would not stop to re-read the letter: he had said what he wanted
to say, and she could read his meaning easily enough. He had held out the olive branch. It
was for her to accept or reject it, as she would.

Lesley could not understand why he was so restless and apparently uneasy during the next few
days. He seemed to be looking for something--expecting something--nobody knew what. He spent
more time than usual with her, and took a new interest in her affairs. She did not know that
he was trying to put himself into training for domestic life, and that he found it unexpectedly
pleasant.

"What's this?" he said one day, picking up a scrap of paper that fell from a book that she
held in her hand. "Not a letter, I think? Have you been making extracts?"

"No," said Lesley, blushing violently, but not trying to take the paper from him.

"May I see it? Oh, a sort of essay--description--impressions of London in a fog." He murmured
a few of the words and phrases as he went on. "Why, this is very good. Here's the real literary
touch. Where did you get this, Lesley? It's not half bad."

As she made no answer, he looked up and saw the guilty laughter in her eyes, the conscious
blushes on her cheeks.

"You don't mean to say----"

"I only wrote it to amuse myself," said Lesley, meekly. "I've had so little to do since I came
here, and I thought I would scribble down my impressions."

"My dear child," said Mr. Brooke, "if you can write as well as this, you ought to have a career
before you. Why," he added, surveying her, "I had no idea of this. And I always did have a
secret wish that a child of mine should take to literature. My dear----"

"But I don't want to take to literature, exactly," said Lesley, with a little gasp. "I only
want to amuse myself sometimes--just when I feel inclined, if you don't think it a great waste
of time----"

"Waste of time? Certainly not. Go on, by all means. I shall only ask to see what you do now
and then; I might be able to give you a hint--though I don't know. Your style is very good
already--wants a little compression, perhaps, but you can make sentences--that's a comfort."
And Mr. Brooke fell to reading the manuscript again, with a very pleased look upon his face.

It was while he was still reading that a servant brought in some letters which had just arrived.
He opened the first that came to hand almost unthinkingly, for his mind was quite absorbed
in the discovery which he had made. It was only when his eye rested on the first page of the
letter that memory came back to him. He gave a great start, rose up, putting Lesley's paper
away from him, and went to the other side of the room to read his letter. It was as follows:--

     "DEAR MR. BROOKE,--

     "I have already found a house that I think will suit me, and I hope
     that Lesley will join me there as soon as you can spare her. I am
     afraid that it is a little too late to change our respective ways
     of life. It would be no advantage to Lesley to live with parents
     who were not agreed.

     "Yours very truly,

     "ALICE BROOKE."

Caspar Brooke turned round with a face that had grown strangely pale, walked across the room
to Lesley, and dropped the letter in her lap.

"There!" he said. "I have done my uttermost. That is your mother's reply to me."

He strode out of the room, without deigning to answer her cry of surprise and inquiry, and
Lesley took up the letter.

It was with a burst of tears that she put it down. "Oh, mother, mother!" she cried to herself,
"how can you be so unkind, so unjust, so unforgiving? He is the best man in the world, and
yet you have the heart to hurt him."

She did not see her father again until the next day, and then, although she made no reference
in words to the letter which she restored to him, her pale and downcast looks spoke for her,
and told the sympathy which she did not dare to utter. Mr. Brooke kissed her, and felt vaguely
comforted; but it began to occur to him that he had made Lesley's position a hard one by insisting
on her visit to his house, and that it might have been happier for her if she had remained
hostile to himself, or ignorant of his existence. For now, when she went back to her mother,
would not the affection that she evidently felt for him rise up as a barrier between herself
and Lady Alice? Would she not try to fight for him? She was brave enough, and impetuous enough,
to do it. And then Alice might justly accuse him of having embittered the relation, hitherto
so sweet, between mother and daughter, and thereby inflicted on her an injury which nothing
on earth could repair or justify.

Could nothing be done to remedy this state of things? Caspar Brooke began to feel worried by
it. His mind was generally so serene that the intrusion of a personal anxiety seemed monstrous
to him. He found it difficult to write in his accustomed manner: he felt a diminution of his
interest in the club. With masculine impatience of such an unwonted condition, he went off
at last to Maurice Kenyon, and asked him seriously whether his brain, his heart, or his liver
were out of order. For that something was the matter with him, he felt sure, and he wanted
the doctor to tell him what it was.

Maurice questioned and examined him carefully, then assured him with a hearty laugh that even
his digestion was in the best possible working order.

Brooke gave himself a shake like a great dog, looked displeased for a moment, and then burst
out laughing too.

"I suppose it is nothing, after all," he said. "I've been a trifle anxious and worried lately.
Nothing of any importance, my dear fellow. By the by, have you been to see Lesley lately?"

"May I speak to her?" said Maurice, his face brightening. "I thought----"

"Speak when you like," Caspar answered, curtly. "I almost wish you would get if over. Get it
settled, I mean."

"I shall get it settled as soon as I can, certainly," said Maurice.

And Mr. Brooke went away, thinking that after all he had found one way of escape from his troubles.
For if Lesley accepted Maurice, and lived with him in a house opposite her father's, there
would always be a corner for him at their fireside, and he would not go to the grave feeling
himself a childless, loveless, desolate old man.

It must be conceded that Mr. Brooke had sunk to a very low pitch of dejection when he was dominated
by such thoughts as these.

CHAPTER XXV.

LESLEY'S PROMISE.

Maurice was no backward lover. He made his way to Lesley that very day, and found her in the
library--not, as usual, bending over a book, but standing by the window, from which could be
seen a piece of waste ground overgrown with grass and weeds, and shaded by some great plane
and elm trees. There was nothing particularly fascinating in the outlook, which partook of
the usual grimness of a London atmosphere; but the young green of the budding trees spoke,
in spite of the blackness of their branches, of spring and spring's delight; and there was
a brightness in the tints of the tangled grass which gave a restful satisfaction to the eye.
Lesley was looking out upon this scene with a wistfulness which struck Maurice with some surprise.

"You like this window?" he said, interrogatively, when they had shaken hands and exchanged
a word or two of greeting.

"Yes, it reminds me in some way of my old convent home; I don't know why it should; but there
are trees and grass and greenness."

"Ah, you love the country?"

"Do not you?"

"Yes, but there are better things in the world than even trees and grass."

"Ah, yes," said Lesley, eagerly. Then, with a little smile, she added; as if quoting--"Souls
of men."

"I was thinking of their bodies," said the young doctor. "But that's as it should be. You think
of the spiritual, I only of the material side. Both sides ought to be considered that is where
men and women meet, I take it."

"I suppose so," said Lesley, a little vaguely.

"I'm afraid," Maurice went on, "that it will be a long time before I have a country house of
my own: a place where there will be trees and green meadows and flowers, such as one loves
and sighs for. I have often thought"--with a note of agitation in his voice--"how much easier
it would be to ask any one to share my life if I had these good things to offer. My only chance
has been to find someone who cares--as I care--for the souls and bodies of the men and women
around us; who would not disdain to help me in my work."

"Who could disdain it?" asked Lesley, innocently indignant.

"Do you mean"--turning suddenly upon her--"that you don't consider a hard working doctor's
life something inexpressibly beneath you?"

She drew back a little hurt, a little bit astonished.

"Certainly not. Why should I?"

"You are born to a life of luxury and self-indulgence."

"My father is a journalist," said Lesley with a smile, in which amusement struggled with offence.

"But your grandfather was an earl! It is possible," with a touch of raillery, "that you prefer
earls to general practitioners."

"Of the two, it is the doctor that leads the better life, in my opinion," said Lesley, rather
hotly; but immediately cooling down, she added the remark--"My preferences have nothing much,
however, to do with the matter."

"Have they not? How little you know your own power!"

Lesley looked at him in much amaze. Whither this conversation was tending it had not yet occurred
to her to inquire. But something in his look, as he stood fronting her, brought the color to
her cheeks and caused her eyes to sink. She became suddenly a little afraid of him, and wished
herself a thousand miles away. Indeed she made one backward step, as if her maidenly instincts
were about to manifest themselves in actual flight. But Maurice saw the movement, and made
two steps forward, which brought him so close to her that he could have touched her hand if
he had wished.

"Don't you understand?" he said, in an agitated voice. "Don't you see that your opinion--your
preferences--are all the world to me?"

He paused as if expecting her to reply--leaning a little towards her to catch the word from
her lips. But Lesley did not speak. She remained motionless, as pale now as she had been red
before--her hands hanging at her sides and her eyes fixed upon the ground. She looked as if
she were stricken dumb with dismay.

"I know that I have not recommended myself to you by anything that I have said or done," Maurice
went on. "I misjudged you once, and I spoke roughly, rudely, brutally; but it was the way you
took what I said which made me understand you. You were so fine, so noble, so sweet! Instead
of making my stupidity an excuse for shutting yourself away from what your father was doing,
you immediately threw yourself into it, you began to work with him and for him--as of course
I might have seen that you would do directly you came to know him. I was a fool, and you were
an angel--that summarizes the situation."

A faint smile curled Lesley's lips, although she did not look up. "I am afraid there is not
much of the angel about me," she said.

"Ah, you can't see yourself as others see you," he answered, quite ignoring the implication
in her remark which a less ardent lover might have resented. "To me, at any rate, you are the
one woman in the world, the only one I have ever loved--shall ever love as long as I live--the
fulfilment of my ideal--the realization of all my dreams!"

His vehemence made Lesley draw back.

"You exaggerate," she said with a slight shake of the head. "Indeed, I am not all that--I could
not be. I am very ignorant and full of faults. I have a bad temper----"

"You have a temper that is sweetness itself!"

"Oh, Mr. Kenyon, how can you say so?"--with a look of reproach. "You who have seen me so angry!"

"Your temper is just like your father's," said Maurice, dogmatically. "A little hot, if you
like, but sweet----"

"Something like preserved ginger?" asked Lesley.

The two young people looked at each other with laughter in their eyes. This was Lesley's way
of trying to stave off the inevitable. If Maurice's declaration could only be construed into
idle compliment, she would be rid of the necessity of giving him a plain answer. And what had
been begun as a proposal of marriage seemed likely to degenerate into a fencing match.

Maurice saw the danger, and was too quick-witted to fall unawares into the trap which Lesley
had laid for him. A war of words was the very thing in which he and Ethel most delighted; and
it was usually quite easy to induce brother and sister to engage upon it. But on this occasion
he was too much in earnest for word-play. He laughed at Lesley's simile, and then became suddenly
and almost fiercely grave.

"I can't let you turn the whole thing into a joke," he said. "You know that I mean what I say.
It is a matter of life and death to me. I love you with my whole heart, and I come to-day to
know whether there is any chance for me--whether you can honor me with your love--whether you
will one day consent to be my wife."

His voice sank to a pleading tone, and his face was very pale. But he felt that a great display
of emotion would frighten and repel the girl, and he therefore sedulously avoided, as far as
possible, any appearance of agitation. He could not, however, entirely achieve the calmness
which he desired, and the very suppression of his agitation, which, in spite of himself, made
his voice shake, and brought fire to his eyes, had an unwontedly unnerving effect upon Lesley.

"Oh, I don't know," she said hurriedly. "I can't tell--I never thought----"

"Think now," he said persuasively. "Am I disagreeable to you?"

"No,"--very softly.

"Have you forgiven me for my bad behavior in the past?"

"You never did behave badly."

"But you have forgiven me?"

"Oh, yes."

This was illogical, as she had previously intimated that there was nothing to forgive; but,
under such circumstances, Lesley may be excused.

"And--surely, then--you like me a little!"

"A little," Lesley breathed, rather than spoke, with an unconscious smile of happiness.

"Can you not call it 'loving?'" asked Maurice, daring for the first time to take her soft little
hand in his.

But the question, the look, the touch, suddenly terrified Lesley, and brought back to her mind
a long-forgotten promise. What was it her mother had required of her before she left Paris
for her father's house? Was it not a pledge that she should not bind herself to marry any man?--that
she should not engage herself to be married? Lesley had an instinctive knowledge of the fact
that to proclaim her promise would be to cast discredit on Lady Alice; and so, while trying
to keep her word, she sought for means to avoid telling the whole truth.

"No, oh no," she said, withdrawing her hand at once and turning away. "Indeed, I could not.
Please do not ask me anymore."

The shock was very great to Maurice. He stood perfectly silent for a moment. He had thought
that he was making such good progress--and, behold! the wind had suddenly changed; the face
of the heavens was overcast. He tried to think that he had been mistaken, and made another
attempt to win a favorable hearing.

"Miss Brooke--Lesley--you say you like me a little. Do you not think that your liking for me
might grow? When you know that I love you so tenderly, that I would lay down my very life for
you, when you can hear all that I can tell you of my hopes, my dreams, my aspirations----"

"I do not want to hear," said Lesley, putting out her hand blindly. "Please do not tell me:
it makes me miserable--indeed, I must not listen."

Again Maurice stood silent for a moment.

"Must not listen?" he repeated at length, with a keen look at her. "Why must you not?"

Lesley made no answer.

"You speak strangely," said Kenyon, with some slight coldness beginning to manifest itself
in his manner. "Why should you not listen to me? If you are thinking of your father, I can
assure you that he has no objection to me. I have consulted him already. He would be honestly
glad, I believe, if you could care for me--he has told me so. Does his opinion go for nothing?"

She shook her head.

"I can't explain," she said brokenly. "I can only ask you not to say anything--at least--I
have promised----"

"Promised not to listen to me?"

"To anything of the kind," said Lesley, feeling that she was making a terrible mess of the
whole affair, and yet unable to loosen her tongue sufficiently to explain.

"May I ask to whom you gave this promise?"

"No," said Lesley.

There was another silence, but this time it was a silence charged with ominous significance.
Maurice's face was very white, and a peculiar rigidity showed itself in the lines of his features.
He was very much disappointed, and he also felt that he had some right to be displeased.

"If you were bound by any such promise, Miss Brooke," he said, "I think it would have been
better that your friends should have known of it. I don't think that Mr. Brooke was aware----"

"Oh, no, he knew nothing about it."

"It was a promise made before you came here?"

"Yes."

"Of which your mother--Lady Alice--approves?"

"Oh, yes--it was to her--because she----"

Lesley stammered and tried to explain. There was a tremendous oppression upon her, such as
one feels sometimes in a nightmare dream. She longed to speak out, to clear herself in Maurice's
eyes, and yet she could not frame a single intelligible sentence. It was as though she were
afflicted with dumbness.

"I think," said Maurice, deliberately, "that your father and your aunt had a right to know
this fact. You seem to have kept them in ignorance of it. And I have been led into a mistake.
I can assure you, Miss Brooke, that if I had been aware of any previous promise--or--or engagement
of yours, I should never have presumed to speak as I have spoken to-day. I can but apologize
and withdraw."

Before Lesley could answer, he had taken his hat, bowed profoundly, and left the room.

And Lesley, with lips from which all color had faded, and hands pressed tightly together, watched
him go, and stood for some minutes in dazed, despairing silence before she could say, even
to herself, with a burst of hot and bitter tears,

"Oh, I did not mean him to think that. And now I cannot explain! What shall I do? What can
I do to make him understand?"

But that was a question for which she found no answer.

CHAPTER XXVI.

CURED.

"You are quite well," said the doctor to John Smith, otherwise called Francis Trent, at the
great hospital one day. "You can go out to-morrow. There is nothing more that we can do for you."

Smith raised his dull eyes to their faces.

"Am I--cured?" he asked.

One of the doctors shrugged his shoulders a little. Another answered kindly and pityingly,

"You will find that you are not as strong as you used to be. Not the same man in many respects.
But you will be able to get your own living, and we see no reason for detaining you here. What
was your trade?"

The patient looked down at his white, thin hands. "I don't know," he said.

"Have you friends to go to?"

There was a pause. Some of the medical students who were listening came a little nearer. As
a matter of fact, Francis Trent's future depended very largely on the answer he made to this
question. The statement that he was "quite well" was hazarded rather by way of experiment than
as a matter of fact. The doctors wanted to know what he would say and do under pressure, for
some of them were beginning to suggest that the man should be removed to the workhouse infirmary
or a lunatic asylum. His faculties seemed to be hopelessly beclouded.

Suddenly he lifted his head. A new sharp light had come into his eyes. He nodded reassuringly.

"Yes, I have friends," he said.

"You have a home where you can go? Shall we write to your friends to meet you?"

"No, thank you, sir. I can find my own way home."

And then they conferred together a little, and left him, and reported that he was cured.

Certainly, there seemed to be nothing the matter with him now. His wounds and injuries had
healed, his bodily strength was returning. But the haze which hung over his mind was far more
impenetrable than the doctors guessed. Something of it had been apparent to them in the earlier
days of his illness; but his clear and decided answers to their questions convinced them that
memory had to some extent returned. As a matter of fact it was not memory that had returned,
but a sharpening of his perceptive faculties, awakening him to the fact that he stood in danger
of being taken for an idiot or a madman if he did not frame some answer to the questions which
the doctors asked him. This new acuteness was perhaps the precursor to a return of his memory;
but as yet the Past was like a dead wall, an abyss of darkness surrounding him. Now and then
flashes of light seemed to dart across that darkness: he seemed on the point of recalling something--he
knew not what; for the flashes faded as quickly as they came, and made the darkness all the
greater for the contrast.

He was possessed now by the idea that if he could get out of hospital, and walk along the London
streets, he might remember all that he had forgotten. His own name, his own history, had become
a blank to him. He knew in some vague, forlorn fashion, that he had once been what the world
calls a gentleman. He had not acknowledged so much to the doctors: he had not felt that they
would believe him. Even when the groping after the Past became most painful, he made up his
mind that he would not ask these scientific men for help: he was afraid of being treated as
a "case," experimented on, written about in the papers. There was something in the Past of
which he knew he ought to be ashamed. What could it be? He was afraid to ask, lest he might
find himself to be a criminal.

In these haunting terrors there was, of course, a distinct token of possible insanity. The
man needed a friendly, guiding hand to steer him back to the world of reason and common-sense.
But to whom could he go, since he had taken up this violent prejudice against the doctors?
He felt drawn to none of the nurses, although some of them had been very kind to him. The only
person to whom he might perhaps have disburthened himself, if he had had the opportunity, was
the sweet-voiced, sweet-faced woman whom he had warned of the ill effects of her gifts. He
did not know her name, or anything about her; but before he left the hospital he asked one
of the nurses who she was.

"Lady Alice Brooke--daughter of the Lord Courtleroy, who died the other day," was the reply.

"Could you give me her address?"

"No; and I don't think that if I could it would be of any use to you. She is leaving England,
I believe. If you want work or help, why don't you speak to Mr. Kenyon? He's the gentleman
to find both for you--Mr. Maurice Kenyon."

"Which is Mr. Kenyon?"

"There--he's just passing through the next ward; shall I speak to him for you?"

"No, thank you: I don't want anything from him: I only wanted the lady's name," said John Smith,
in a dogged sullen kind of way, which made the whitecapped nurse look at him suspiciously.

"Brooke!--Kenyon?"--How oddly familiar the names seemed to him! Of course they were not very
uncommon names; but there was a distinct familiarity about them which had nothing to do with
the names themselves, as if they had some connection with his own history and his own affairs.

He was discharged--"cured." He went out into the streets with half-a-crown in his pocket, and
a fixed determination to know the truth, sooner or later, about himself. At the same time he
had a great fear of letting any one know the extent of the blanks in his memory. He thought
that people might shut him up in a madhouse if he told them that he could not recollect his
own name. A certain amount of intellectual force and knowledge remained to him. He could read,
and understand what he read. But of his own history he had absolutely no idea; and the only
clue to it that he could find lay in those two names--Brooke and Kenyon.

Could he discover anything about the possessors of these names which would help him? He entered
a shop where a Post Office Directory was to be found, and looked at Maurice Kenyon's name amongst
the doctors. He found Mr. Kenyon's private address; but as yet it told him nothing. Woburn
Place? Well, of course he had heard of Woburn Place, it was no wonder that he should know it
so well; but the name told him nothing more.

He sat staring at it so long that the people of the shop grew impatient, and asked him to shut
the book. He went away, and wandered about the streets, vaguely seeking for he knew not what.
And after a time he bought a newspaper. Here again he found the name that had attracted his
attention--the name of Kenyon. "Last appearance of Miss Kenyon at the Frivolity Theatre--this
week only."

"Who's Miss Ethel Kenyon?" he asked--drawing a bow at a venture--of his neighbor in the dingy
little coffeehouse into which he had turned. It was ten to one that the man would not know;
but he would ask.

As it happened, the young man did know. "She's an actress," he said. "I went to see her the
other night. Pretty girl--going to get married and leave the stage. My brother's a scene shifter
at the Frivolity--knows all about her."

"Who is she going to marry?"

"Oh, I don't know--some idle young chap that wants her money, I believe. She ain't the common
sort of actress, you know. Bit of a swell, with sixty thousand pounds of her own."

"Oh," said his interlocutor, vaguely. "And--has she any relations?"

"Well, that I can't tell you. Stop a bit, though: I did hear tell of a brother--a doctor, I
believe. But I couldn't be sure of it."

"Could you get to know if you wanted?"

The young fellow turned and surveyed his questioner with some doubt. "Dare say I could if I
chose," he said. "What do you want to know for, mate?"

"I've been away--out of England for a long time--and I think they're people who used to know
me," said Francis Trent, improvising his story readily. "I thought they could put me on the
way of work if I could come across them; but I don't know if it's the same."

"Why don't you go to see her to-night? She's worth a look: she's a pretty little thing--but
she don't draw crowds: the gallery's never full."

"I think I'll go to-night," said Francis, rising suddenly from his seat. He fancied that the
young man looked at him suspiciously. "Yes, no doubt, I should know her if I saw her: I'll
go to-night."

He made his way hastily into the street, while his late companion sent a puzzled glance after
him. "Got a tile loose, that chap has," he said to the girl at the counter as he also passed
out. "Or else he was a bit screwed."

So that night Francis Trent went to the Frivolity, and witnessed, from a half-empty gallery,
a smart, sparkling little society play, in which Ethel Kenyon had elected to say farewell to
her admirers.

He saw her, but her face produced no impression upon his mind.

It was not familiar to him, although her name was familiar enough. Those gleaming dark eyes
in the saucy piquante face, the tiny graceful figure, the silvery accents of her voice, were
perfectly strange to him. They suggested absolutely nothing. It was the name alone that he
knew; and he was sure that it was in some way connected with his own.

Before the end of the play, he got up and went out. The lights of the theatre made him dizzy:
his head ached from the hot atmosphere and from his own physical weakness. He was afraid that
he should cry out or do something strange which would make people look at him, if he sat there
much longer. So he turned into a side street and leaned against a wall for a little time, until
he felt cool and refreshed. The evening was warm, considering that the month was March, and
the air that played upon his face was soft and balmy. When he had recovered himself a little,
he noticed a group of young men lighting their cigarettes and loitering about a door in the
vicinity. Presently he made out that this was the stage-door, and that these young men were
waiting to see one of the actresses come out. By the fragments of their talk that floated to
him on the still evening air in the quiet side street, Francis Trent gathered that they spoke
a good deal of Ethel Kenyon.

"So this is the last we shall see of pretty little Ethel," he heard one man say. "Who's the
man she's hooked, eh?"

Nobody seemed to know.

"Why did she go on the boards at all, I wonder? She's got money, and belongs to a pre-eminently
respectable family. Her brother's a doctor."

"Stage-struck," said another. "She'll give it up now, of course. Here's her carriage. She'll
be here directly."

"And the happy man at her heels, I suppose," sneered the first speaker. "They say she's madly
in love with him, and that he, of course, wants her money."

"He's a cad, I know that," growled a younger man.

Impelled by an interest of which he himself did not know the source, Francis Trent had drawn
nearer to the stage door as the young fellows spoke. He was quite close to it, when it opened
at last and the pretty actress came forth.

She was escorted by a train of admirers, rich and poor. Her maid was laden with wraps and bouquets.
The manager and the actor who played the leading part were on either side of her, and Ethel
was laughing the merry, unaffected laugh of a perfectly happy woman as she made her triumphal
exit from the little theatre where she had achieved all her artistic success. Another kind
of success, she thought, was in store for her now. She was to know another sort of happiness.
And the whole world looked very bright to her, although there was one little cloud--no bigger
than a man's hand, perhaps--which had already shown itself above the horizon, and might one
day cloud the noontide of her love.

Francis Trent was so absorbed in watching her lovely face, and in wondering why her name had
seemed so familiar, that he paid scant attention to her followers. It was only as the carriage
drove off that his eye was caught by the face of a man who sat beside her. A gleam from a gas-lamp
had fallen full upon it, revealing the regular, passionless features, the dark eyes and pale
complexion of Ethel's lover. And as soon as he saw that face, a great change came over the
mental condition of Francis Trent. He stood for a moment as if paralyzed, his worn features
strangely convulsed, a strange lurid light showed itself in his haggard eyes. Then he threw
his arms wildly in the air, uttered a choked, gasping cry, and rushed madly and vainly after
the retreating carriage, heedless of the shouts which the little crowd sent after him.

"He's mad--he'll never catch up that carriage! What does he run after it for, the fool?" said
one of the men on the pavement.

And indeed he soon relinquished the attempt, and sat down on a doorstep, panting and exhausted,
with his face buried upon his arms.

But he was not mad. He was sure of that now. It was only that he had--partially and feebly,
but to some extent effectually--remembered what had happened to him in the dark dead Past.

CHAPTER XXVII.

DOUBT.

It was a difficult matter for Maurice Kenyon so to word his report to Caspar Brooke as not
to excite his displeasure against Lesley. He felt himself bound to respect Lesley's confidences--if
such they might be called--respecting the promise which kept her from returning his love; but
he could not help a certain bitterness of tone in referring to his interview with her; and
his friend observed the bitterness.

"What reason did she give for refusing you?" he asked sharply.

"I suppose she does not care for me."

"There is something else--to judge from your look. Perhaps there is--somebody else?" said Brooke.

"Well, I don't know that I'm doing right in telling you--but--God help me!--I believe there
is," said Maurice, with a groan.

"She did not tell you who?"

"No."

Mr. Brooke knitted his brows. He was inclined to think that Oliver Trent had produced an impression
on Lesley's susceptible heart. He could not ask questions of any of the persons concerned;
but he had his suspicions, and they made him angry as well as anxious.

He made it his business during the next day or two to find out whether Oliver had been to the
house since the day when he had interrupted the interview; but he could not learn that he had
ventured there again. It was no use asking Dr. Sophy about Lesley's comings and goings: it
was almost impossible for him to question Lesley herself.

"What rubbish it all is--this love-making, marrying, and giving in marriage!" he said, at last,
impatiently, to himself. "I'll think no more about these young folks' affairs--let them make
or mar their happiness in their own way. I'll think of my work and nothing else--I've neglected
it a good deal of late, I fancy. I must make up for lost time now." And sitting down at his
table, he turned over the papers upon it, and took up a quill pen. But he did not begin to
write for some minutes. He sat frowning at the paper, biting the feathers of his pen, drumming
with his fingers on the table. And after a time he muttered to himself, "If any man harms Lesley,
I'll wring his neck--that's all;" which did not sound as though he were giving to his literary
work all the attention that it required.

As to Lesley, she would have given a great deal at that time for a counsellor of some kind.
The old feeling of friendlessness had come back to her. Her aunt was absorbed by her own affairs,
her father looked at her with unquiet displeasure in his eyes. Oliver Trent had proved himself
a false friend indeed. Ethel was a little reserved with her, and she had sent Maurice Kenyon
away. There was nobody else to whom she could turn for comfort. True, she had made many acquaintances
by this time: her father's circle was a large one, and she knew more people now than she had
ever spoken to in her quiet convent days. But these were all acquaintances--not friends. She
could not speak to any one of these about Maurice Kenyon, her lover and her friend. Once or
twice she thought vaguely of writing to her mother about him; but she shrank from doing so
without quite knowing why. The fact was, she knew her mother's criticism beforehand: she expected
to be reproached with having broken her compact in the spirit if not in the letter; and she
did not know how to justify herself. Maurice had taken his dismissal as final, and she had
not meant him to do so. Now, if ever, the girl wanted a friend who would either encourage her
to explain her position to him, or would do it for her. Lady Alice would not fill this post
efficiently. And Lesley, in her youthful shamefaced pride, felt that nothing would induce her
to make her own explanation to Maurice. It would seem like asking him to ask her again to marry
him--an insupportable thought.

So she went about the house pale and heavy-eyed, trying with all her might to throw herself
into her father's schemes for his club, writing a little now and then, occupying herself feverishly
with all the projects that came in her way, but bearing a sad heart about with her all the
time. She was not outwardly depressed--her pride would not let her seem melancholy. She held
her head high, and talked and laughed more than usual. But the want of color and brightness
in her face and eye could not be controlled.

"You pale-faced wretch," she said to herself one Saturday evening, as she stood before her
glass and surveyed the fair image that met her eye; "why cannot you look as usual? It must
be this black dress that makes me so colorless: I wish that I had a flower to wear with it."

Mr. Brooke and his sister were holding one of their frequent Saturday evening parties, when
they were "at home" to a large number of guests. Lesley was just about to go downstairs. Her
dress was black, for she was in mourning for her grandfather; and it must be confessed that
the sombre hue made her look very pale indeed. The wish for a flower was gratified, however,
almost as soon as formed. Kingston entered her room at that moment carrying a bouquet of flowers,
chiefly white, but with a scarlet blossom here and there, which would give exactly the touch
of color that Lesley's appearance required.

"These flowers have just come for you, ma'am," Kingston said quietly.

Her subdued voice, her pale face, and heavily shadowed eyes, did not make her a cheerful-looking
messenger; but Lesley, for the time being, thought of nothing but the flowers.

"Where do they come from, Kingston?" she asked, eagerly.

"I was only to say one word, ma'am--that they came from over the way."

There was no want of color now in Lesley's face. Her cheeks were rose-tinted, her eyes had
grown strangely bright. "Over the way." Of course that meant Maurice. Did not he live over
the way?--and was there any one else at the Kenyons' house who would send her such lovely flowers?

If he sent her flowers, she reflected, he could not have yet ceased to care for her, although
she had behaved so badly to him--in his eyes, at least. The thought gave her courage and content.
Perhaps he was coming that night--he had a standing invitation to all the Brookes' evening
parties--and when he came he would perhaps "say something" to her, something which she could
answer suitably, so as to make him understand.

She did not know how pretty she looked as she stood looking down at her flowers, the color
and smile and dimples coming and going in her fair young face in very unwonted confusion. But
Mary Kingston noted every change of tint and expression, and was surprised. For the little
mystery was quite plain to her. It was not Mr. Kenyon who sent the flowers at all. Mr. Kenyon
was too busy a man to buy bouquets. It was Oliver Trent who had sent them, for Kingston had
herself seen him carrying the flowers and entrusting them to a commissionnaire with a message
for Miss Brooke. She believed, too, that Lesley knew from whom they came. But she was not sufficiently
alert and interested just then to make these matters of great importance to her. She did not
think it worth her while to say how much she knew. With a short quick sigh she turned away,
and expected to see her young mistress quit the room at once, still with that happy smile upon
her face. But Lesley had heard the sigh.

"Oh, Kingston," she said, laying her hand on the woman's arm, "I wish you would not sigh like
that!"

"I beg your pardon, ma'am; I did not mean to annoy you."

"I don't mean that: I mean it for your own sake. You seem so sad about something--you have
been sad so long!"

"I've had a sad life, Miss Lesley."

"But there is surely some special sadness now?"

"Yes," said the woman slowly. "Yes, that is true. I've--lost--a friend."

She put a strong emphasis on the word "lost," and paused before and after uttering it, as if
it bore a peculiar meaning to her. But Lesley took the word in its ordinary sense.

"I am very sorry," she said. "It must be very terrible, I think, when one's friends die."

She stood silent for a minute--a shadow from Kingston's grief troubling the sweetness of her
fair face. It was the maid who broke the silence.

"Excuse me, ma'am; I oughtn't to have troubled you with my affairs to-night, just when you're
enjoying yourself too. But it's hard sometimes to keep quiet."

Moved by a sudden instinct of sympathy, Lesley turned and kissed the woman who served her,
as if she had been a sister. It was in such ways that she showed her kinship with the man who
had written "The Unexplored." Lady Alice, in spite of all her kindness of heart, would never
have thought of kissing her ladies' maid.

"Don't grieve--don't be sorrowful," said Lesley. "Perhaps things will mend by and by."

"Ah, my dear," said Kingston, forgetting her position, as Lady Alice would have said, while
that young, soft kiss was warm upon her cheek, "the dead don't come back."

And when Lesley had gone downstairs, with the white and scarlet bouquet in her hand, Mary Kingston
sat down and wept bitterly.

It was not the first time that Lesley had spoken words of consolation to her; but on this occasion
her gentleness had gone home to Mary Kingston's heart as it had never done before. After weeping
for herself for a time, she fell to weeping for Lesley too, for it seemed inevitable to her
that Lesley should suffer before very long. She believed that Lesley was in love with Oliver,
and that for this reason only had she refused Maurice Kenyon, which shows that Lesley had kept
her own secret very well.

"I'd do anything to keep her from harm," said Mary Kingston, with a passionate rush of gratitude
towards the girl for her kindly words and ways. "Francis Trent brought me grief enough, God
knows; and if she's going to throw herself away on Oliver, she'll have her heart broke sooner
than mine. For I've been used to sorrow all my days; and she--poor, pretty lamb--she don't
know what it means. And Miss Brooke all taken up with her medicine-fads, and Mr. Brooke only
a man, after all, in spite of his goodness; and my lady, her mother, far away and never coming
near her--if anybody was friendless and forlorn, it's Miss Lesley. Only me between her and
her ruin, maybe! But I'll prevent it," said the woman, rising to her feet with a strange look
of exaltation in her sunken eyes: "I'll guard her from Oliver Trent as I couldn't guard my
own sister, poor lass! I'll see that she does not come to any harm, and if he means ill by
her I'll shame him before all the world, even though I break more hearts than one by it."

And then she roused herself from her reverie, and went downstairs, where she knew that her
presence was required in the tea-room. Scarcely had she entered it, when she made a short pause
and gave a slightly perceptible start. For there stood Ethel Kenyon, with Oliver Trent in attendance.
She had not thought that he would come to the house; a rumor had gone about that he had quarreled
with Mr. Brooke; yet there he was, smiling, bland, irreproachable as ever, with quite the look
of one who had the right to be present. He was holding Ethel's fan and gloves as she drank
a cup of tea, and seemed to be paying her every attention in his power. Ethel, in the daintiest
of costumes, was laughing and talking to him as they stood together. She was quite unconscious
of any reason for his possible absence. Mary Kingston gave them a keen glance as she went by,
and decided in her own mind that there was more in the situation than as yet she had understood.

Oliver was playing a bold game. His marriage was fixed for the following Tuesday. From Mr.
Brooke's attitude in general towards the Kenyons, he felt sure that Caspar would not place
them in any painful or perplexing situation. He would not, for instance, refuse to welcome
Oliver to his house again, if Oliver went in Ethel's company. Accordingly, the young man put
his pride and his delicacy (if he had either--which is doubtful) in his pocket, and went with
his affianced wife to Mr. Brooke's Saturday evening party.

"For I will see Lesley again," he said to himself, "and if I do not go to-night I may not have
the opportunity. If she would relent, I would not mind throwing Ethel over--I could do it so
easily now that Francis has disappeared. But I would give up Ethel's twenty thousand, if Lesley
would go with me instead!"

Little did he guess that only on the previous night had he been recognized and remembered by
that missing brother, whose tottering brain was inflamed almost to madness by a conviction
of deliberate wrong; or that this brother was even now upon his track, ready to demand the
justice that he thought had been denied him, and to punish the man who had brought him to this
evil pass! Wild and mad as were the imaginings of Francis Trent's bewildered mind, they boded
ill to his brother Oliver whenever the two should meet.

Meanwhile, Ethel's lover, with a white flower in his button-hole, occupied the whole evening
in leaning idly against a wall, and feasting his eyes on the fair face and form--not of his
betrothed, but--of Lesley Brooke.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

IN MR. BROOKE'S STUDY.

Caspar Brooke's dingy drawing-room looked cheerful enough that night, filled by a crowd of
men and women, and animated by the buzz of constant talk and movement. It was a distinguishing
characteristic of his parties that they were composed more of men than of women; and the guests
were often men or women who had done something in the world, and were known for some special
excellence in their work. Lesley generally enjoyed these gatherings very much. The visitors
were shabby, unfashionable people sometimes: they had eccentricities of dress and manner; but
they were always interesting in Lesley's eyes. Literary men, professors, politicians, travelers,
philanthropists, faddists--these were the folk that mostly frequented Caspar Brooke's parties.
Neither artists nor musicians were largely represented: the flow of talk was rather political
and literary than artistic; and on the whole there were more elderly people than young ones.
As a rule, Oliver Trent was not disposed to frequent these assemblies: he shrugged his shoulders
at them and called them "slow," but on this occasion he was only too glad to find admittance.
It was at least a good opportunity for watching Lesley, as she passed from one group to another,
doing the duties of assistant-hostess with grace and tact, giving a smile to one, a word to
another, entering into low-toned conversation, which brightened her eyes and flushed her fair
cheek, with another. Oliver thought her perfection. Beside her stately proportions, Ethel seemed
to him ridiculously tiny and insignificant, and her sparkling prettiness was altogether eclipsed
by Lesley's calmer beauty. He was not in an amiable mood. He had steeled himself against the
dictates of his own taste and conscience, to encounter Caspar Brooke's cold stare and freezing
word of conventional welcome, because he longed so intensely for a last word with Lesley; but
he was now almost sorry that he had come. Lesley seemed utterly indifferent to his presence.
She certainly carried his flowers in her hand, but she did not glance his way. On the contrary,
she anxiously watched the door from time to time, as if she awaited the coming of some one
who was slow to make his appearance. Who could the person be for whom she looked? Oliver asked
himself jealously. He had not the slightest suspicion that she was watching for Maurice Kenyon.
And Maurice Kenyon did not come.

It was his absence that, as the evening wore on, made the color slip from Lesley's cheeks and
robbed her eyes of their first brightness. A certain listlessness came over her. And Oliver,
watching from his corner, exulted in his heart, for he thought to himself--

"It is for me she is looking sad; and if she will but yield her will to mine, I will win and
wear her yet, in spite of all who would say me nay."

It was a veritable love-madness, such as had not come upon him since the days of his youth.
He had had a fairly wide experience of love-making; but never had he been so completely mastered
by his passion as he was now. The consideration that had once been so potent with him--love
of ease, money, and position--seemed all to have vanished away. What mattered it that to abandon
Ethel Kenyon at the last moment would mean disgrace and perhaps even beggary? He had no care
left for thoughts like these. If Lesley would acknowledge her love for him, he was ready to
throw all other considerations to the winds.

"Sing something, Lesley," her father said to her when the evening was well advanced. "You have
your music here?"

Oh, yes, Lesley had her music here. But she glanced a little nervously in Oliver's direction.
"I wonder if Ethel would accompany me," she said. She shrank nervously from the thought of
Oliver's accompaniments.

But Oliver was too quick for her. He moved forward to the piano as soon as he saw Caspar Brooke's
eye upon it. And with his hand on the key-board, he addressed himself suavely to Lesley.

"You are going to sing, I hope? May I not have the pleasure of accompanying you?"

Lesley could not say him nay, but she also could not help a glance, half of alarm, half of
appeal, towards her father. Mr. Brooke's face wore an expression which was not often seen upon
it at a social gathering. It was distinctly stormy--there was a frown upon the brow, and an
ominous setting of the lips which more than one person in the room remarked. "How savage Brooke
looks!" one guest murmured into another's ear. "Isn't he friendly with Trent?" And the words
were remembered in after days.

But nothing could be said or done to hinder Oliver from taking his place at the piano, for
Lesley did not openly object, and her father could not interfere between her and his own guest.
So Lesley sang, and did not sing so well as usual, for her heart failed her a little, partly
through vexation and partly through disappointment at Maurice Kenyon's disappearance, but she
gave pleasure to her hearers, in spite of what seemed to herself a comparative failure, and
when she had finished her song, she was besieged by requests that she would sing once more.

"Sing 'Thine is my heart,'" Oliver's soft voice murmured in her ear.

"I have not that song here," said Lesley, quietly. She was not very much discomposed now, but
she did not want to encourage his attention. She rose from the music-stool. "My music is downstairs,"
she said. "I must go and fetch it--I have a new song that Ethel has promised to play for me."

Oliver bit his lips and stood back as Lesley escaped by the door of the front drawing-room.
Mr. Brooke's eye was upon him, and he could not therefore follow her; but he made his way into
the library through the folding doors, and there a new mode of attack became visible to him.
By the library door he gained the landing; and then he softly descended the stairs, which were
now almost deserted, for the guests had crowded into the drawing-room, first to hear Lesley's
song and then to listen to a recitation by Ethel Kenyon. But where had Lesley gone?

A subtle instinct told him that she had hidden herself for a moment--and told him also where
to find her. The lights were burning low in her father's study, which had been set to rights
a little, in order to serve as a room where people could lounge and talk if they wanted to
escape the din of conversation in the larger rooms. He looked in, and at first thought it empty.
But the movement of a curtain revealed some one's presence; and as his eyes became accustomed
to the dimmer light, he saw that it was Lesley. She was standing between the fireplace and
curtained window, and her hand was on the mantelpiece.

She started when she saw him in the doorway. It was her start that betrayed her. He came forward
and shut the door behind him--Lesley fancied that she heard the click of the key in the lock.
She tried to carry matters with a high hand.

"I am afraid I cannot find my music here," she said, "so please do not shut the door, Mr. Trent.
There is little enough light as it is."

She walked forward, but he had planted himself squarely between her and the door. She could
not pass.

"Mr. Trent----" she began.

"Wait! don't speak," he said, in a voice so hoarse and stifled that she could hardly recognize
it as his own. "I must have a word with you--forgive me--I won't detain you long----"

"Excuse me, I must go back to the drawing-room."

Lesley spoke civilly but coldly, though some sort of fear of him passed shiveringly through
her frame.

"You shall not go yet: you shall listen to what I have to say."

"Mr. Trent!"

"Yes, it is all very well to exclaim! You know what I mean, and what I want. I had not time
to speak the other night; but I will speak now. Lesley, I love you!----"

"Mr. Trent, Ethel is upstairs. Have you forgotten her? Let me pass."

"I have not forgotten her: I remember her only too well. She is the burden, the incubus of
my life. Oh, I know all that you can tell me about her: I know her beauty, her gifts, her virtues;
but all that does not charm me. You, you and no other, are the woman that I love; and, beside
you, Ethel is nothing to me at all."

"You might at least remember your duty to her," said Lesley, with severity. "You have won her
heart, and you are about to vow to make her happy. I cannot understand how you can be so false
to her."

"If I am false to her," said Oliver, pleadingly, "I am true to the dictates of my own heart.
Hear me, Lesley--pity me! I have promised to marry a woman whom I do not love. I acknowledge
it frankly. I shall never make her happy--strive as I may, her nature will never assimilate
with mine. She will go through life a disappointed woman; while, if I set her free, she will
find some man whom she loves and will be happy with him. You may as well confess that this
is true. You may as well acknowledge that her nature is too light, too trivial to be rent asunder
by any falsity of mine. Ethel will never break her heart; but you might break yours, Lesley--and
I--I also--have a heart to break."

Lesley smiled scornfully. "Yours will not break very easily," she said, "and I can answer for
mine."

"You are strong," he said, using the formula by which men know how to soften women's hearts,
"stronger than I am. Be merciful, Lesley! I am very weak, I know; but weakness means suffering.
Can you not pity me, when you think that my weakness and my suffering come from love of you?"

"I am very sorry, Mr. Trent, but I really cannot help it. It is your own fault--not mine,"
said Lesley, a little hotly. "I never thought of such a thing."

"No, you were as innocent and as good as you always are," he broke in, "and you did not know
what you were doing when you led me on with those sweet looks and sweet words of yours. I can
believe that. But you did the mischief, Lesley, without meaning it; and you must not refuse
to make amends. You made me think you loved me."

"Oh, no, no," said Lesley, her face aflame with outraged modesty. "I never made you think so!
You were mistaken--that is all!"

"You made me think you loved me," Oliver repeated, doggedly, "and you owe me amends. To say
the very least, you have given me great pain: you have made me the most miserable of men, and
wrecked all chance of happiness between Ethel and myself--have you no heart that you can refuse
to repair a little of the harm that you have done? You are a cruel woman--I could almost say
a wicked woman: hard, false, and cowardly; and I wish my words could blight your life as your
coquetry has blighted mine."

Lesley trembled. No woman could listen to such words unmoved, when her armor of incredulity
fell from her as Lesley's armor had fallen. Hitherto she had felt a scornful disbelief in the
reality of Oliver's love for her. But now that disbelief had gone. There was a ring of passionate
feeling in Oliver's tones which could not be simulated. The coldness, the artificiality of
the man had disappeared: his passion for Lesley had taken possession of him, and stirred his
nature to the very depths.

"Listen, Lesley," he said, in a low, strained voice, which shook and vibrated with the intensity
of his emotion, "don't let me feel this. Don't let me feel that you have merely played with
me, and are ready to cast me off like an old shoe when you are tired. Other women do that sort
of thing, but not you, my darling!--not you--don't let me think it of you. Forgive me the harsh
things I said, and help me--help me--to forget them."

He had grasped the back of a chair with both hands, and was kneeling with one knee on the seat.
He now stretched out his hands to her, and came forward as if to take her in his arms. But
Lesley drew back.

"I am very sorry," she said, "but I cannot help it. I did not mean to be unkind."

"If you are really sorry for me," he said, still in the deep-shaken voice which moved her to
so uneasy a sense of pain and wrong-doing, "you will do all you can for me. You will help me
to begin a new life. I love you so much that I am sure I could teach you to love me. I am certain
of it, Lesley--dearest--let me try!"

Did she falter for a moment? There flashed over her the remembrance of Maurice's anger, of
his continued absence, of the probability that he would never come back to her; and the dream
of a tender love that could envelop the rest of her lonely life assailed her like a temptation.
She hesitated, and in that moment's pause Oliver drew nearer to her side.

"Kiss me, Lesley!" he whispered, and his head bent over hers, his lips almost touched her own.

Then came the reaction--the awakening.

"Oh, no, no! Do not touch me. Do not come near me. I do not love you. And if I did"--said Lesley,
almost violently--"if I loved you more than all the world, do you think that I would betray
Ethel, my friend? that I would be so false to her--and to myself?"

"Then you do love me?" he murmured, undisturbed by her vehemence, which he did not think boded
ill for his chances, after all.

"No, I do not."

"You are mistaken. Kiss me once, Lesley, and you will know. You will feel your love then."

"You insult me, Mr. Trent. Love you? Come one step nearer and I shall hate you. Oh!" she said,
recoiling, as a gleam from the lamp revealed to her the wild expression in his eyes, the tension
of his white lips and nostrils, the strange transformation in those usually impassive features
which revealed the brutal nature below the polished surface of the man, "I hate you now!"

She was close to the wall, and her head came in sudden contact with the old-fashioned bell-rope.
She seized it firmly.

"Open the door," she said, "or I shall ring this bell and send for my father. He will know
what to do."

Oliver gazed at her for a minute or two, then, with a smothered oath upon his lips, he turned
slowly to the door and opened it. Before leaving the room, however, he said, in a voice half-stifled
by impotent passion--

"Is this really your last word?"

"The last I shall ever speak to you," said Lesley, resolutely.

Then he went out, seizing his hat as he passed through the hall and made his way into the street.
He did not notice, as he retired, that a woman's figure was only half-concealed behind the
curtains that screened a door in the study, and that his interview with Lesley must therefore
have had an unseen auditor. He forgot that Ethel and Rosalind waited for him above. He was
mad with rage; deaf to all voices saving those of passion: blind to all sights save the visions
that floated maddeningly before his eyes.

Mad, blind, deaf to reason as he was, he was obliged to come back to earth and its realities
before very long. For he was stopped in the streets by rough hands: a hoarse, passionate voice
uttered threats and curses in his ear; and he found himself face to face with his long-vanished
and half-forgotten brother, Francis Trent.

CHAPTER XXIX.

BROTHERS.

"What do you want with me?" said Oliver trying to shake off the rude grasp.

"I want you--you," gasped the man. He was evidently much excited, and his breath came in hard,
quick pants. "Have you forgotten your own brother?"

The two paused for an instant under a gas lamp. Oliver looked into Francis Trent's drawn, livid
face--into the wild, bloodshot eyes, and for an instant recoiled. It struck him that the face
was that of a madman. But it was, nevertheless, the face of his brother, and after that momentary
pause he recovered himself and laughed slightly.

"Forgotten you? I'm not very likely to forget you, my boy. Well, what do you want?"

"I want that two thousand pounds."

His hand still clutched Oliver's arm, and the grasp was becoming unpleasant.

"Can you not take your hand off my arm?" said the younger man, coolly. "I'm not going to run
away. Apropos, what have you been doing with yourself all these weeks! I thought you had given
us the slip altogether."

"I want my money," said Francis, doggedly.

Oliver looked at him curiously. What did this persistence mean? What money was he thinking about?

"Your money?" he repeated.

"Yes, my money--the money you ought to have given me by this time--where is it?"

"You mean the sum I promised you on my wedding-day?"

Francis nodded, with a rather confused look upon his face.

"My wedding-day has not occurred yet," said Oliver, lightly. "Upon my word, I doubt whether
it ever will occur. Don't alarm yourself, Francis. I shall get the money for you before long--I've
not forgotten it."

"I want it now. Two thousand pounds," said Francis, thickly.

"Are you drunk, man! Do you think I carry two thousand pounds about with me in my pocket? Go
home--I'll see you again when you are sober."

"I have touched nothing but water to-day," said his brother. "I swear it--so help me, God!
I know what I'm about. And I know you. I know you for the vilest cheat and trickster that ever
walked the earth. I've been in hospital--I don't know how long. I know that you would cheat
me if you could. You were to pay me within six months--and it's over six months now."

"I tell you I'm not married. I was to pay you on my wedding-day."

"You were to pay me within six months. Have you opened a bank account for me and paid in the
two thousand pounds?"

"Are you mad, Francis?"

"Mad?--I may well be mad after all you have made me suffer. I tell you I want money--money--money--I
want two thousand pounds."

His voice rose almost to a shriek, and the sound reverberated along the quiet street with startling
effect. Oliver shrank into himself a little, and gave a hurried glance around him. They were
still in Upper Woburn Place, and he was afraid that the noise should excite remark. It was
plain to him that Francis was either drunk or out of his mind, and he therefore concentrated
his attention on getting quietly away from him, or leading him to some more secluded spot.

"Look here," he said, in a conciliatory tone. "You shall have your money if you'll be quiet
and come away with me. Come to my house and I'll explain things to you. You've not seen Rosalind
for a long time, have you? Come in and talk things over."

"Oh, you want to trap me, do you?" said Francis, sullenly. "No, I'll not come to your house.
Go in and fetch the money out to me, or I'll make you repent it."

Oliver was almost at his wit's end.

"All right," he said, soothingly. "I will fetch it. I can give you a cheque, you know. But
don't you want a little loose change to go on with? Take these."

He held out a handful of gold and silver. Francis looked at it with covetous eyes for a minute
or two, then thrust his brother's hand aside with a jerk which almost sent the coins into the road.

"I want justice, not charity," he said. "I want the money you promised me."

Oliver shrugged his shoulders, and slowly returned the money to his pocket.

"I am more than ever convinced that you are either mad or drunk, my boy," he said. "You should
never refuse ten pounds when you can get it, and it's not a thing that I should fancy you have
often done before. However, as you choose."

He walked onward, and Francis walked, heavily and unsteadily, at his side, muttering to himself
as he went. Oliver glanced curiously at him from time to time.

"I wonder what has happened to him," he said to himself. "It's not safe to question, but I
should like to know. Is it drink? or is it brain disease? One thing or the other it must be.
He does not look as if he would live to spend the two thousand pounds--if ever he gets it.
I wonder if I could contrive to stave off the payment----"

And then he fell into a gloomy calculation of ways and means, possibilities and chances, which
lasted until the house in Russell Square was reached. Here the brothers paused, and Oliver
looked keenly into his companion's face, noting that a somewhat remarkable change had passed
over it. Instead of being flushed and swollen, as if from drinking, it had become very pale.
His eyes seemed on the point of closing, and he wavered unsteadily in his walk. Oliver had
to put out his hand to save him from falling, and to help him to the steps, where he collapsed
into a sitting posture, with his head against the railings. He seemed to be stupefied, if not
asleep.

"Dead drunk," said Oliver to himself. "The danger's over for to-night, at any rate. Now, what
shall I do with him? I can't get him into the house and lock him into a room--that would make
talk. I think I had better leave him to the tender mercies of the next policeman; if he gets
run in for being drunk and incapable, so much the better for me."

He took out his latch key and let himself into the house, closing the door softly behind him,
so as not to awaken the half-sleeping wretch upon the steps. Then he ascended the stairs--still
softly, as if he thought that he was not yet out of danger of awaking him--and locked himself
into his own room. Then he drew a long breath, and stood motionless for a moment, with bent
brows and downcast eyes. "There will be no end to this," he said to himself, "until Francis
is shipped off to America or landed safely in a madhouse. One seems to me about as likely as
another. I wonder whether he was drunk to-night, or insane? Drunk, I think: insanity"--with
a sinister smile--"would be too great a stroke of luck for me!"

But it was perfectly true, as Francis had said, that no drop of intoxicating liquor had passed
his lips that day. He was suffering from brain disease, as Oliver had half suspected, although
not to such an extent that he could actually be called insane. A certain form of mania was
gradually taking possession of his mind. He was convinced that he had been robbed by his brother
of much that was his due; and that Oliver was even now withholding money that was his. This
fancy had its foundation in fact, for Oliver had wronged him more than once, and was ready
to wrong him again should a suitable opportunity occur; but the notion that at present occupied
his mind, respecting the payment of the two thousand pounds, was largely a figment of his disordered
brain. Oliver had certainly questioned within himself whether he should be called upon to pay
this sum, and as Francis seemed to have completely disappeared, he began to think that he might
evade his promise to do so; but he had not as yet sought to free himself from the necessity
of paying it. Francis' own words and demeanor suggested this idea for the first time to his
mind. Was it possible, he asked himself, to prove that Francis was insane--clap him into a
lunatic asylum--get rid of him forever without hush-money? True, there was his wife, Mary,
to be silenced; but she had no influence and no friends. "Power is always in the hands of those
who have most money," Oliver said to himself, as he reviewed the situation, after leaving Francis
on the door step. "I have more money than Francis, certainly: I ought to be able to control
his fate a little--and my own."

But Oliver, astute as he thought himself, was occasionally mistaken in his conclusions. Francis
Trent, as we have said, was not intoxicated; and when he had dozed quietly for a few moments
on the door-step, he came somewhat to himself, as he usually did after these fits of frenzy.
He felt dazed and bewildered, but he was no longer furious. He could not remember very well
what he had said to Oliver, or what Oliver had said to him. But he knew where he was, and that
in this region--between Russell Square and St. Pancras Church--he should find his truest friends
and perhaps also his bitterest foes.

He roused himself, stretched his cramped limbs, and turned back to wander towards Upper Woburn
Place, hardly knowing, however, why he bent his steps in that direction. Instinct, not memory
or reflection, guided him, and when he halted, he leaned against the railings of the house
from which he had seen Oliver come forth, without realizing for one moment that it was the
house in which his faithful and half-forgotten Mary was to be found.

The door opened, as he waited, and some of the guests came out. Two or three carriages drove
up: there was a call for a hansom, a whistle, and an answering shout. Francis Trent watched
the proceedings with a sort of stupid attention. They reminded him of the previous night when
he had seen Ethel Kenyon coming out of the theatre after her farewell performance. But on that
occasion he had passed unnoticed and unrecognized. This was not now to be the case.

Suddenly a woman on the threshold of Mr. Brooke's house caught sight of the weary, shabby figure
leaning against the railings. Francis heard a little gasp, a little cry, and felt a hand upon
his own. "Francis! is it you? have you really come back?" It was Mary Kingston who looked him
in the face.

He returned the gaze with lack-lustre, unseeing eyes. When the fever-fit of rage left him,
he was still subject to odd lapses of memory. One of these had assailed him now. He did not
recognize his wife in the very least.

"I--I don't know you," he said. "Go away, woman. I'm not doing any harm."

There is nothing so piteous as the absence of recognition of the patient's best friends in
cases of brain-disease. Francis Trent's condition sent a stab of pain to Mary's innermost heart.
She forgot where she was--she forgot her duties as doorkeeper; she remembered only that she
loved this man, and that he had forgotten her. She cried aloud----

"Francis, I am your wife."

"I have no wife," said the distraught man, looking listlessly beyond her. "I am here to see
Oliver--he is to give me some money."

"Don't you remember Mary, Francis? Look at me--look at me."

"Mary?" he said, doubtfully. "Oh, yes, I remember Mary. But you are not Mary, are you?"

"Yes, indeed I am. Where have you been all this time? Oh, my poor dear, you can't tell me!
You are ill, Francis. Let me take care of you. Can you tell me where you live?"

But he could not reply. His head drooped upon his breast: he looked as if he neither saw nor
heard. What was she to do?

Of one thing Mary was certain. Now that she had found her husband, she was not going to lose
sight of him again.

She would go with him whithersoever he went, unless he repelled her by force. She gave one
regretful thought to her young mistress, and to a certain project which she had determined
to put into effect that night, and then she thought of the Brookes no more. She must leave
them, and follow her husband's fortunes. There was no other way for her.

Fortunately she had money in her pocket. She had also thrown a shawl across her arm before
she came to the door. The shawl belonged to Miss Brooke, and had been offered to one of the
guests as a loan; but Mary had forgotten all about the guests, and appropriated the shawl,
with the cool resolution which characterized her in cases of emergency. Necessity--especially
the necessity entailed by love--knows no law. At that moment she knew no law but that of her
repressed and stunted, but always abiding, affection for the husband who had burdened her life
for many weary years with toil and anxiety and care. For him she would do anything--throw up
all friendships, sacrifice her future, her character, and, if need be, her life.

She wrapped the shawl round her head, and put her arm through her husband's, without once looking
back.

"Come, Francis," she said, quietly, "show me where you live now. We will go home."

She led him unresistingly away. For a little while he walked as if in a dream; but by and by
his movements became more assured, and he turned so decidedly in one direction that she saw
he knew his way and was pursuing it. She said nothing, but kept close to his side, with her
hand resting lightly on his arm. She was not mistaken in her expectations. Francis went straight
to the wretched lodging in which he had slept for the past few nights, and Mary at once assumed
the management of his affairs.

She was rewarded--as she thought, poor soul!--for her efforts. When she had lighted a fire
and a candle, and prepared some sort of frugal meal for the man she loved, he lifted up his
face and looked at her with a gleam of returning memory and intelligence in his haggard eyes.

"Mary," he said, in a bewildered tone, "Mary--my wife? How did you come here, Mary? How did
you find me out?"

"Are you glad to see me, dear?" said Mary.

"Yes--yes, I am. Everything will be right now. You'll manage things for me."

It was an acknowledgment of the power of her affection which more than recompensed her for
the trouble of the last few months.

CHAPTER XXX.

MRS. TRENT'S STORY.

"I never heard of such an extraordinary thing," said Lesley.

"Then that shows how little you know of the world," said Doctor Sophy, amicably. "I've heard
of a hundred cases of the kind."

"Well, there are some elements of oddity in this case," remarked Caspar Brooke, striking in
with unexpected readiness to defend his daughter's views. "Kingston was not a giddy young girl,
who would go off with any man who made love to her. Indeed, I can't quite fancy any man making
love to her at all. She was remarkably plain, poor woman."

"She had beautiful eyes," said Lesley. "And she was so nice and quiet and kind. And I really
thought that she was--fond of me." She paused before she uttered the last three words, being
a little afraid that they would be thought sentimental. And indeed Miss Brooke did give a contemptuous
snort, but Caspar smiled kindly, and patted his daughter's hand.

"Don't take it to heart," he said. "'Fondness' is a very indeterminate term, and one that you
must not scrutinize too closely. This little black beast, for instance"--caressing, as he spoke,
the head of the ebony-hued cat which sat upon the arm of his chair--"which I picked up half-starving
in the street when it was a kitten, is fond of me because I feed it: but suppose that I were
too poor to give it milk and chicken-bones, do you think it would retain any affection for
me? A sublimated cupboard-love is all that we can expect now-a-days from cats--and servants."

"When you can write as you do about love," said Lesley, who was coming to know her father well
enough to tease him now and then, "I wonder that you dare venture to express yourself in this
cold-blooded way in our hearing!"

"Ah, but, my dear, I was not talking about love," said Caspar, lightly. "I was talking about
'fondness,' which is a very different matter. You did not say that your maid, Kingston, loved
you--I suppose she was hardly likely to go that length--you said that she was fond of you.
Very probably. But fondness has its limits."

Lesley smiled in reply, and did not utter the thought that occurred to her. What she really
believed was that Kingston was not only "fond" of her, after the instinctive fashion of a dumb
creature that one feeds, but loved her, as one woman loves another. Although her democratic
feelings came to her through her father's teaching, or by inheritance from him, she did not
quite like to say this to him: he might think it foolish to believe that a servant whom she
had not known for very many weeks actually loved her; and yet she had the conviction that Kingston's
attachment was deeper and more sincere than that of many a woman who claimed to be her friend.
And she was both grieved and puzzled by Kingston's disappearance.

For this was on Monday morning, and the woman had not come back to Mr. Brooke's. Great had
been the astonishment of every one in the house when it was found that the quiet, well-spoken,
well-behaved Mary Kingston, who had hitherto proved herself so trustworthy and so conscientious,
had gone away--disappeared utterly and entirely, without leaving a word of explanation behind.
She had last been seen on the pavement, shortly before midnight, assisting a lady to get into
a hansom. Nobody had seen her re-enter the house. It seemed as if she had been spirited away.
She had gone without a bonnet or shawl, in her plain black dress and white cap and apron, as
if she meant to return in a minute or two, and she had not appeared again. The shawl that she
had taken with her was not missed, for Miss Brooke continued for some time under the impression
that it had been lent to one of the visitors.

The conversation recorded above took place at Mr. Brooke's luncheon-table. It was not often
that he was present at this meal, but on this occasion he had joined his sister and daughter,
and questioned them with considerable interest about Kingston. After lunch, he put his hand
gently on Lesley's arm, just as she was leaving the dining-room, and said, in a tone where
sympathy was veiled with banter--

"Never mind, my dear. We will get you another maid, who will be less fond of you, and then
perhaps she will stay."

"I don't want another maid, thank you, papa. And, indeed, I do think Kingston was fond of me,"
said Lesley earnestly.

Mr. Brooke shrugged his shoulders. "Verily," he said, "the credulity of some women----"

"But it isn't credulity," said Lesley, with something between a smile and a sigh, "it is faith.
And I can't altogether disbelieve in poor Kingston--even now."

Mr. Brooke shook his head, but made no rejoinder. Privately he thought Lesley foolishly mistaken,
but believed that time would do its usual office in correcting the mistakes of the young.

His own incredulity received a considerable shock somewhat later in the day. About four o'clock
a knock came to his study, and the knock was followed by the appearance of the sour-visaged Sarah.

"If you please, sir, there's that woman herself wants to see you."

"What woman, Sarah?" said Caspar, carelessly. He was writing and smoking, and did not look
up from his work.

"The woman, Kingston, that ran away," said Sarah, indignantly. "I nearly shut the door in her
face, sir, I did."

"That wouldn't have been legal," said Mr. Brooke. "Why doesn't she see Miss Brooke or Miss
Lesley? I am busy."

"I expect she thinks she can get round you more easy," said Sarah, who was a very old servant,
and occasionally took liberties with her master and mistress.

"She won't do that, Sarah," said Caspar, laughing a little in spite of himself. "Show her in."

He laid down his pen and his pipe with a rather weary air. Really, he was becoming involved
in no end of domestic worries, and with few compensations for his trouble! Such was his silent
thought. Lesley would, shortly leave him: Alice had refused to come back to his house. Well,
it would be but for a short time. He had almost made up his mind that when Lesley was gone
he would give up a house altogether, establish his sister in a flat, throw journalism to the
winds, and go abroad. The life that he had led so long, the life of London offices and streets,
of the study and the committee-room, had become distasteful to him. As he thrust away from
him the manuscript at which he had been busy, his lips were, half unconsciously, murmuring
a very well-worn quotation--

    "For I will see before I die,
    The palms and temples of the South."

And from this passing day-dream he was roused by the entrance of a woman whom he knew only
as his daughter's maid.

He was struck at once by some indefinable change that had passed over her since he had seen
her last. He had noticed her, as he noticed everybody that came within his ken; and he had
remarked the mechanical precision of her demeanor, the dull sadness of her lifeless eyes. There
was a light in her face now, a tremulous quiver of her lips, a slight color in her thin cheeks.
She looked like a creature who could feel and think: not an automaton, worked by ingenious
machinery.

He noted the change, but did not estimate it at its true worth. He thought she was simply excited
by the consciousness of her misdemeanor, and by the prospect of an interview with him. He put
on his most magisterial manner as he spoke to her.

"Well, Kingston," he said, "I hope you have come to explain the cause of the great inconvenience
you have brought upon Miss Brooke and my daughter."

"That is exactly what I have come to do, sir," said Kingston, looking him full in the face,
and speaking in clear, decided tones, such as he had never heard from her before. She generally
spoke in a muffled sort of way, as though she did not care to exert herself--as though she
did not want her true voice to be heard.

"Sit down," said Mr. Brooke, more kindly. He had the true gentleman's instinct; he could not
bear to see a woman stand while he was seated, although she was only his daughter's maid, and--presumably--a
culprit awaiting condemnation. "Now tell me all about it."

"Thank you, sir, I'd prefer to stand," said Kingston, quietly. "At any rate, until I've told
you one or two things about myself. To begin with: my name was Kingston before my marriage,
but it's not Kingston now."

"Do you mean that you have got married since Saturday?" asked Caspar, quietly.

The woman uttered a short, gasping sort of laugh. "Since Saturday? Oh, no, sir. I've been married
for the last six years, or more. I am Francis Trent's wife--Francis the brother of Mr. Oliver
Trent, who was here last Saturday night."

And then, overcome with her confession, or with the look of mute astonishment--which he could
not repress--on Caspar Brooke's countenance, she dropped into the chair that he had offered
her, covered her face with her hands and sobbed aloud. It took her hearer some seconds before
he could adjust his mind to this new revelation.

"Do you mean," he said at last, "that brother of Mr. Trent's"--he had nearly said "of Mrs.
Romaine's"--"who--who----" He paused, feeling unable to put into words the question that was
in his mind.

"That got into trouble some years ago, you mean," said Mrs. Trent, lifting her face from her
hands, and trying to control her trembling voice. "Yes, I mean him. I know all about the story.
He got into trouble, and he's gone from bad to worse ever since. I've done my best for him,
but it doesn't seem as if I could do much more now."

"Why?"

"He's been ill--I think he's had an accident--but I don't rightly know what's been the matter
with him. Mr. Brooke, sir, I hope you'll believe me in what I say. When I came here first I
didn't know that you were friends with his sister and his brother, or I wouldn't have come
near the place. And when I found it out I'd got fond of Miss Lesley, and thought it would be
no harm to stay."

"But what--what on earth--made you take a situation as ladies'-maid at all?" cried Caspar,
pulling his beard in his perplexity, as he listened to her story.

"I wanted to earn money. He could not work--and I could not bear to see him want."

"Could not work? Was it not a matter of the will? He could have worked if he had wished to
work," said Mr. Brooke, rather sternly. "That Francis Trent should let his wife go out as----"

"Oh, well, it was work I was used to," said Francis Trent's wife, patiently. "I'd been in service
when I was a girl, and knew something about it. And it was honest work. There's plenty of ways
of earning money which are worse than being a servant in your house, and to Miss Lesley, too."

Lesley's words came back to Caspar's mind. She had had "faith" in Kingston's attachment, and
her faith seemed now to be justified. Women's instincts, as Caspar acknowledged to himself,
are in some ways certainly juster than those of men.

"Is he not strong? Is there no sort of work that he can do?" he demanded, with asperity. "If
you had come to me at the beginning and told me who you were, I might have found something
for him. It is not right that his wife should be waiting upon my daughter. Tell me what he can do."

"I don't think he can do much now," was Mary Trent's answer. "He's very much broken down. I
daresay you wouldn't know him if you saw him. I don't think he could do a day's work, so there's
all the more reason that I should work for both."

She spoke truly enough as regarded the present; but, by a suppression of the truth which was
almost heroic she concealed the fact that for many years Francis had been able but unwilling
to work. Now, certainly, he was incapacitated, and she spoke as if he had been an invalid for
years. Thus Caspar Brooke understood her, and his next words were uttered in a gentler tone.

"I am very sorry that you should have been brought into these straits, Mrs. Trent. Will you
give me your address, and let me think over the matter? Mrs. Romaine or Mr. Oliver Trent----"

"I'd rather not have anything to do with them," said Mrs. Trent, quietly, but with an involuntary
lifting of her head. "Mrs. Romaine knows I am his wife, but she won't speak to me or see me."
Caspar moved uneasily in his chair. This account of Rosalind's behavior did not coincide with
his own idea of her softness and gentleness. "And Oliver Trent is the man who has brought more
misery on me than any other man in the world."

"But if I promise--as I will do--not to give your address to Mrs. Romaine or Mr. Trent, will
you not let me know where you live?" said Caspar, with the gentle intonation that had often
won him his way in spite of greater obstacles than poor Mary Trent's obstinate will.

She gave him her address, after a little hesitation. It was in a Whitechapel slum. Then, seeing
in his face that he would have liked to ask more questions, she went on hurriedly--

"But I have not come here to take up your time. I only wanted to explain to you why I left
your house on Saturday--which I'm very sorry to have been obliged to do. And one other thing--but
I'll tell you that afterwards."

"Well? Why did you go on Saturday, Mrs. Trent?" said Mr. Brooke, more curious than he would
have liked to allow. But she did not reply as directly to his question as he wanted her to do.

"I was only a poor girl when Francis married me," she said, "but I loved him as true as any
one could have loved, and I would have worked my fingers to the bone for him. And he was good
to me, in his way. He got to depend upon me and trust to me; and I used to feel--especially
when he'd had a little more than he ought to have--as if he was more of a child to me than
a husband. It was to provide for him that I came here. And then--one day when I'd been here
a little while--I went to his lodgings to give him some money I'd been saving up for him--and
I found him gone--gone--without a word--without a message--disappeared, so to speak, and me
left behind to be miserable."

Caspar ejaculated "Scoundrel!" behind his hand, but Mrs. Trent heard and caught up the word.

"No, you're wrong, sir, he was no scoundrel," she said calmly. "He'd met with an accident and
been taken to an hospital. He was there for weeks and weeks, not able to give an account of
himself, or, as far as I can make out, even to give his name. He came out last week, and made
his way, by sort of instinct, to your house, where he knew I was living. I came out on the
steps and saw him there--my husband that I'd given up for lost. I ran up to him--you'd have
done the same in my place--and went with him without thinking of anybody else."

"I see. But why did you not leave a word of explanation behind."

"I daren't quit hold of him for a moment, sir. He was so dazed and stupid, he didn't even know
me at the first. That was why I say it was instinct, not knowledge, that guided him to the
place. If I had left him to speak to any one in the house, he might have gone off, and I never
seen him again. That was why I felt obliged to go sir, and am very sorry for the inconvenience
I know I must have caused."

Caspar nodded gravely. "I see," he said. "Of course it was inconvenient, and we were anxious--there's
no denying that. But I can see the matter from your point of view. Would you like to see Miss
Lesley and explain it to her?"

"I'd rather leave it in your hands, sir," said Mary Trent. "Because there's one thing more
I've got to mention before I go. And Miss Lesley may not thank me for mentioning it, although
I do it to save her--poor lamb--and to save you too, sir, from a great trouble and sorrow and
disgrace that hangs over you all just now."

Caspar flushed. "Disgrace?" he said, almost angrily.

And Mrs. Trent looked at him full in the face and nodded gravely, as she answered--

"Yes, sir, disgrace."

CHAPTER XXXI.

"A FAIRLY GOOD REASON."

Caspar Brooke's attitude stiffened. His features and limbs became suddenly rigid.

"I must confess, Mrs. Trent," he said, "that I am unable to conceive the possibility of disgrace
hanging over me or mine."

"That is because you are a man, and therefore blind to what goes on around you," said Mary
Trent, with sudden bitterness; "and I am a woman, and can use my eyes and ears. There, I'd
better tell you my tale at once, and you can make what you like of it. Miss Lesley----"

"If you have anything to say about Miss Lesley, it had better be said in her hearing," returned
Caspar, in hot displeasure. He rose and laid his hand upon the bell. "I want no tales about
her behind her back."

"For mercy's sake, sir, stop," said the woman, eagerly. "It is only to spare her that I ask
it! It isn't that she is to blame--no, no, I don't mean that; but she is in more danger than
she knows."

Caspar's hand fell from the bell rope. His face had turned a trifle pale, and his brows looked
very stern.

"Tell me exactly what you mean. I do not wish to listen to anything that Miss Lesley has not
intended me to hear. I have perfect faith in her."

"Faith in her! She's one of the sweetest and truest-hearted ladies I ever came across," said
Mary Trent, indignantly; "but she may be on the brink of a precipice without knowing it. Sir,
what I mean is this. Mr. Oliver Trent is in love with Miss Lesley, and is doing his best to
get her to run off with him. Yes, I know what you want to say--that she would never do such
a thing--but one cannot always say what a girl will do under pressure; and, believe me or not
as you please, Oliver Trent is ready to throw over Miss Kenyon at any moment for the sake of
your daughter, Mr. Brooke."

"Do you know what you are saying?" thundered Caspar, now white to the lips. "Do you know what
an aspersion you are casting on my daughter's character? Are you aware that Miss Kenyon's marriage
with Mr. Trent is to take place to-morrow morning? Your remarks are perfectly unjustifiable--unless
you are in ignorance of the facts of the case."

"I know all, and yet I warn you," said Mrs. Trent, perfectly unmoved by this burst of anger.
"I tell you what I have seen and heard for myself. And I know Oliver Trent only too well. It
was Oliver Trent who betrayed my only sister, and brought her to a miserable death. She was
a good girl until she met him. He ruined her, and he had no scruples. He will have more outward
respect to Miss Lesley and Miss Kenyon, but he is no more scrupulous about using his power,
when he has any, than he was then."

"After making this accusation you must not be surprised if I ask what grounds you have for
it," said Mr. Brooke.

He was calm enough to all appearance now, but even Mrs. Trent, not very observant by nature,
could tell that he was very much disturbed. For answer, she proceeded to describe the scene
that had taken place in the very room in which they now stood, on the preceding Saturday night.

"I saw him follow Miss Lesley into this room," she explained. "And I'd seen enough to make
me fearful of what he was going to do or say. You know there are folding-doors between this
room and the next--screened by curtains. The doors had been partly opened, and I slipped into
the space between them. I was covered by the curtain, and I could not hear all that was said,
because I had sounds from the other room in my ears as well; but I heard a great deal, and
I made up my mind to tell you there and then. If I had not seen my husband that night you would
have heard my story before you slept."

Caspar Brooke's next question took her by surprise. He swung round on one heel, so that his
back was almost turned to her, and flung the words over his shoulder with savage bitterness.

"What business had you to listen to my daughter's conversation with her friends?"

This was a distinctly ungrateful speech, and Mrs. Trent felt it so. But she replied, quietly--

"Miss Lesley's been kinder to me than any one I ever knew. And I had suffered a good deal from
Oliver Trent's wicked falseness. He is my brother-in-law, as the law puts it, and I don't want
to have any quarrel with him: but he shall do no more harm than I can help."

By the time she had finished her speech Caspar had recovered himself a little.

"You are quite right," he said, "and you have done me a service for which I thank you. I don't
for a moment suppose that my daughter is not capable of taking care of herself. But other people
are interested beside Lesley. Miss Kenyon's brother is one of my closest friends, and I should
be very treacherous if I allowed her to marry this man, Oliver Trent, after all that I have
heard about him to-night--if it be true. I don't want to throw doubt on your testimony, Mrs.
Trent, but I suppose I must have some further proof."

"Miss Lesley could tell you----"

"I shall not ask Miss Lesley, unless I am obliged. Did you not yourself beg me to spare her?
This other story of his heartless conduct to your sister is quite enough to damn him in every
right-minded woman's eyes. I shall speak to him myself--I will have the truth from his own
lips if I have to wring it out by main force," said Caspar speaking more to himself than to
Mary Trent, and quite unaware how truculent an appearance he presented at that moment to that
quiet woman's eyes.

She smiled stealthily to herself. She had a great faith in Caspar Brooke's powers for good
or evil. To have him upon her side made her support with equanimity the thought that she and
Francis might suffer if Oliver did not marry a rich wife. He would see that they did not want.
And she should behold the darling wish of her heart gratified at last. For had she not ardently
desired, ever since the day of Alice's betrayal and Alice's death, to see that false betrayer
punished? Caspar Brooke would punish him, and she should be the instrument through which his
punishment had come about.

"I should like to thrash the scoundrel within an inch of his life," said Mr. Brooke.

"There is very little time before the wedding, if you mean to do anything before then," said
Mrs. Trent, softly.

Caspar started. "Yes, that is true. I must see him to-night. H'm"--he stopped short, oppressed
by the difficulties of the situation. Had he not better speak to Maurice Kenyon at once? But,
as he recollected, Maurice had gone out of town, and would not be back until half an hour or
so before the hour fixed for his sister's wedding. The ceremony was to be performed at an unusually
early hour--ten o'clock in the morning--for divers reasons: one being that Ethel wanted to
begin her journey to Paris in very good time. She had never been anxious for a fashionable
wedding, and had decided to have no formal wedding breakfast, and there was no reason for delaying
the proceedings until a later hour. But, as Mr. Brooke reflected, unless he went to Ethel Kenyon
herself there was little time in which to take action. Indeed, it seemed to him for a moment
almost better to let the past sink into oblivion, and to hope that Oliver would be kind and
faithful to the beautiful and gifted girl who was, apparently, the choice of his heart.

But it was not to Mrs. Trent's interest that this mood should last. "Poor Miss Kenyon!" she
said, in quietly regretful tones. "I'm sorry for her, poor young lady. No mother or father
to look after her, and no friend even who dares to tell her the truth!"

The words stung Caspar. He thought of his own daughter Lesley, placed in Ethel's position,
and he felt that he could not let Ethel go unwarned. And yet--could he believe Oliver Trent
to be such a scoundrel on the mere strength of this woman's story! It might be all a baseless
slander, fabricated for the sake of obtaining money. And there was so little time before poor
Ethel's wedding!

While he hesitated, Mary Trent saw her opportunity, and seized it.

"If you want to see Oliver Trent," she said, "he is coming to our lodgings this very night.
I have been to Mrs. Romaine's house to ask him to come to my husband who wants a few words
with him. If you'll undertake to come there, I'll let you see what sort of a man Mr. Oliver
Trent is, and then you can judge for yourself whether or no he is a fit husband for Miss Kenyon,
or a fit lover for Miss Lesley Brooke."

Caspar raised his hand hastily as if to entreat silence. "Tell me where you live," he said
shortly, "and the hour when he will be there."

"Half-past nine o'clock this evening, sir. The place--oh, you know the place well enough: it
is in Whitechapel."

She gave him the address. He cast a keen, sharp glance at her face as he took it down. "Not
a pleasant neighborhood," he said gravely. "May I ask why you have taken a room in that locality?"

She shook her head. "I did not take it," she said. "My husband took it before I found him,
and I was obliged to stay. Francis is ill--I cannot get him away."

"Can I do anything to help----" Caspar was beginning but she interrupted him with almost surprising
vehemence.

"Oh, no, no. I would not take anything from you. I did not come for that. I came to see if
I could save Miss Lesley and Miss Kenyon from misery, not to beg--either for myself or him."

The earnestness of her tone took from Mr. Brooke a certain uneasy suspicion which had begun
to steal over him: a suspicion that she was using him as a tool for her own ends, that her
real motives had been concealed from him. Even when she had gone--and she went without making
any attempt to see Lesley or Miss Brooke--he could not rid himself altogether of this suggestion;
for with her sad voice no longer echoing in his ears, with her deep-set eyes looking no longer
into his face, he found it easier to doubt and to suspect than to place implicit faith in the
story that she had told him.

Lesley had heard of Kingston's reappearance, and was very much surprised to find that she was
not called upon to interview her runaway attendant. Still more was she surprised when at last
she heard the front door shut, and learned from Sarah that the woman had gone without a word.
So much amazed was she, that shortly before dinner she stole into her father's study and attempted
to cross-examine him, though with small result.

"Father, Sarah says that Kingston has been to see you."

"Yes, she has," said Caspar, briefly. He was writing away as if for dear life, with his left
hand grasping his beard, and his pipe lying unfilled upon the table--two signs of dire haste,
as Lesley had by this time learned to know. She remained silent, therefore, feeling herself
an intruder.

"What do you want to know, my dear?" said her father at last, in a quiet, business-like tone.
He went on writing all the time.

"Is she coming back to us?"

"No."

"Why did she go away?"

"I cannot tell you just now. She had a--a--fairly good reason."

"I thought she must have had that," said Lesley, brightening. "And did she come here to explain?"

"Partly."

"But why not to us?"

Caspar laid down his pen suddenly, and laughed. "Oh, the insatiable curiosity of women! I thought
you were wiser than most, Lesley, but you have all the characteristics of your sex. I can't
satisfy your curiosity, to-day, but I will, if I can, in a short time. Will that do?"

Lesley seemed rather hurt. "I don't think I asked questions out of mere curiosity," she said.
"I always liked Kingston."

"And she likes you, my dear--so far you were perfectly right," said her father, rising, and
patting her on the arm. "To use your feminine parlance, she is quite as 'fond' of you as you
can reasonably desire."

"I don't like to hear so much about 'feminine' ways and characteristics," said Lesley, smiling,
and recovering her spirits. "I always fancy somebody has vexed you when you talk in that cynical
manner."

"That remark is creditable to your penetration," said Mr. Brooke, in his accustomed tone of
gentle raillery, "and, you cannot say that it is not a very harmless way of letting off steam."

"Who has vexed you then?" said Lesley, looking keenly into his face. It was a bold question,
but her father did not look displeased.

"Suppose I said--you yourself?" he queried, with a certain real gravity which she was not slow
to discover.

The color rushed into her face. She thought of Maurice Kenyon, and the mistake that he had
made. She had long been conscious of her father's disappointment, but had not expected him
to speak of it. She made an effort to be equal to the situation.

"If you are vexed with me, it would be kinder to tell me of it than to sneer at all womankind
in general," she said, with spirit.

"Right you are, my girl. Well--why have you refused Kenyon?"

Her eyes drooped. "I would rather you did not ask me that, father."

"Nonsense, Lesley. A plain answer to a plain question is easy to give. Are you in love with
any one else?"

"No, indeed," she answered, vehemently; "I am not----"

And then, for some inexplicable reason, she stopped short.

"'Not in love with any one' was what she was going to say," said Caspar to himself, as he watched
with keen eyes the changes of color and expression in her face. "And she does not dare to say
it after all. What does that mean?" But he did not say this aloud.

"You don't care for Maurice, then?" he asked her.

She drew herself away from him and colored hotly, but made no other reply.

"My dear," said Caspar, half jestingly, half warningly, "you must let me remind you that silence
is usually taken to mean consent."

And even then she did not speak.

"Really, of all incomprehensible creatures, women are the worst. Well, well! Tell me this,
at any rate, Lesley: you have not given your heart to Oliver Trent?"

"Father! how can you ask?"

"Have you anything to complain of with respect to him? Has he always behaved to you with courtesy
and consideration?"

"I would rather not say," Lesley answered, bravely. "He--spoke as I did not like--once--or
twice; but it is his wedding-day to-morrow, and I mean to forget it all."

"Once or twice! When was the last time, child? On Saturday? Here in this room? Ah, I see the
truth in your face. Never mind how I know it. I want to know nothing more. Now you can go:
I am busy, and shall probably have to be out late to-night."

With these words he led the girl gently out of the room, kissed her on the forehead before
he shut the door, and then returned to his work. He did not dine with his sister and daughter,
but sent a message of excuse. Later in the evening, Sarah reported to Miss Brooke that "Master
had gone out, looking very much upset about something or other; and he'd taken his overcoat
and his big stick, which showed, she supposed, that he was off to the slums he was so fond
of." Sarah did not approve of slums.

CHAPTER XXXII.

ETHEL KENYON'S WEDDING-DAY.

The morning of Ethel Kenyon's wedding-day was as bright and sunny as any wedding day had need
to be. The weather was unusually warm, and the trees were already showing the thin veil of
green which is one of spring's first heralds in smoky London town. The window-boxes in the
Square were gay with hyacinth and crocus-blossom. The flower-girls' baskets were brilliant
with "market bunches" of wall-flowers and daffodils--these being the signs by which the dwellers
in the streets know that the winter is over, that the time of the singing of birds has come,
and that the voice of the turtle is heard in the land. The soft breezes blew a fragrance of
violets and lilac-blossom from the gardens and the parks. London scarcely looked like itself,
with the veil of smoke lifted away, and a fair blue sky, flecked with light silvery cloud,
showing above the chimney-tops.

Ethel was up at seven o'clock, busying herself with the last touches to her packing and the
consideration of her toilet; for she was much too active-minded to care for the seclusion in
which brides sometimes preserve themselves upon their wedding-mornings. Some people might have
thought that it would not be a very festive day, for her brother was the only near relative
who remained to her, and an ancient uncle and aunt who had been, as Ethel herself phrased it,
"routed out" for the occasion, were not likely to add much to the gaiety of nations by their
presence. Mrs. Durant, lately Ethel's companion, was to remain in the house as Maurice's housekeeper,
and she had nominally the control of everything; but Ethel was still the veritable manager
of the day's arrangements. She had insisted on having her own way in all respects, and Oliver
was not the man to say her nay--just then.

Mrs. Romaine had offered to stay the night with her, and help her to dress; but Ethel had smilingly
refused the companionship of her future sister-in-law. "Thanks very much," she had said, in
the light and airy way which took the sting out of words that might otherwise have hurt their
hearer; "but I don't think there's anything in which I want help, and Lesley Brooke is going
to act as my maid on the eventful morn itself."

"Lesley Brooke?" said Mrs. Romaine. She could not altogether keep the astonishment out of her
voice.

"Yes, why not?" asked Ethel, with just so much defiance in her voice as to put Mrs. Romaine
considerably on her guard. "Have you any objection?"

"Dear Ethel, how can you ask such a thing? When you know how fond I am of Lesley."

"Are you?" asked Miss Kenyon lightly. "Do you know I should never have thought it, somehow.
I am exceedingly fond of Lesley, and so"--with a little more color in her face than usual--"so
is Oliver."

Bravely as she spoke, there was something in the accent which told of effort and repression.
Mrs. Romaine admired her for that little piece of acting more than she had ever admired her
upon the stage. She was too anxious for her brother's prosperity to say a word to disturb Ethel's
serenity, whether it was real or assumed.

"I am so glad, dear," she said, sweetly. "Lesley is a dear girl, and thoroughly good and loving.
I am quite sure you could not have a better friend, and she will be delighted to do anything
she can for you."

"I don't know about that," said Ethel, with a little pout. "I had a great deal of trouble to
get her to promise to come. She made all sorts of excuses--one would have thought that she
did not want to see me married at all."

Which, Rosalind thought, might be very true. She had so strong a faith in the power of her
brother's fascinations that she could not believe that he had actually "made love," as he had
threatened, to Lesley Brooke without success.

Ethel spoke truly when she said that she had had great difficulty in persuading Lesley to come.
After what had passed between herself and Oliver, Lesley felt herself a traitress in Ethel's
presence. It seemed to her at first impossible to talk to Ethel about her pretty wedding gifts,
her trousseau and her wedding tour, or to listen while she swore fidelity to Oliver Trent,
when she knew what she did know concerning the bridegroom's faith and honor. On the Sunday
after the Brookes' evening party she had a very severe headache, and sent word to Ethel that
she could not possibly come to her on the morrow. But Ethel immediately came over to see her,
and poured forth questions, consolations, and laments in such profusion that Lesley, half blind
and dazed, was fain to get rid of her by promising again that nothing should keep her away.
And on Monday the headache had gone, and she had no excuse. It was not in Lesley's nature to
simulate: she could not pretend that she had an illness when she was perfectly well. There
was absolutely no reason that she could give either to the Kenyons or to Miss Brooke for not
keeping her promise to sleep at Ethel's house on the Monday night, and be present at her wedding
on Tuesday morning.

So she wound herself up to make the best it. It seemed to her that no girl had ever been placed
in so painful a position before. We, who have more experience of life than Lesley had, know
better than that. Lesley's position was painful indeed, but it might in many ways have been
worse. But she, ignorant of real life, more ignorant even than most girls, because she knew
so few of the pictures of real life that are to be found in the best kind of novels, had nothing
but her native instincts of truth and courage to fall back upon, together with the strong will
and power of judgment that she inherited from her father. These qualities, however, stood her
in good stead that day. "It is no use to be weak," she said to herself. "What good shall I
do to Ethel if I give her cause to suspect Oliver Trent's truth to her? The only question is--ought
I to tell her--to put her on her guard? Oh, I think not--I hope not. If he marries her, he
cannot help loving her; and it would break her heart--now--if I told her that he was not faithful.
I must be brave and go to her, and be as sympathetic as usual--take pleasure in her pleasure,
and try to forget the past! but I wish she were going to marry a man that one could trust,
like my father, or like--Maurice."

She always called him Maurice when she thought about him now.

It took all the strength that she possessed, however, to go through the ordeal of those hours
with Ethel. She managed to keep away until nearly nine o'clock on Monday night, and then--just
after her father had gone out--she received a peremptory little note from Ethel. "Why don't
you come? You said you would come almost directly after dinner, and it is ever so late now.
Oliver has just left me: he has business in the city, so I shall not see him again until to-morrow.
Do come at once, or I shall begin to feel lonely."

So Lesley went.

She had to look at the wedding-cake, the wedding-gown, the simple little breakfast table. She
sat up with Ethel until two in the morning, helping her to pack up her things, and listening
to her praises of Oliver. That was the worst of it. Ethel would talk of Oliver, would descant
on his perfections, and, above all, on his love for her. It was very natural talk on Ethel's
part, but it was indescribably painful and humiliating to Lesley. Every moment of silence seemed
to her like an implicit lie, and yet she could not bring herself to destroy the fine edifice
of her friend's hopes, although she knew she could bring it down to the ground with a touch--a
word.

"And I am so glad there is not to be a fuss," Ethel said at last, when St. Pancras' clock was
striking two: "for I always thought that a fussy wedding would be horrid. You see, Lesley,
I have dressed up so often in white satin and lace, as a bride, or a girl in a ballroom, or
some other character not my own, that I feel now as if there would be no reality for me in
a wedding if I did not wear rather every-day clothes. In a bride's conventional dress, I should
only fancy myself on the stage again."

"You don't call the dress you are to wear to-morrow 'every-day clothes,' do you?" said Lesley,
with a smiling glance towards the lovely gown in which Ethel had elected to be married, and
then to wear during the first part of her wedding-journey.

"I call it just a nice, pretty frock--nothing else," said Ethel, complacently, "one that I
can pay calls in afterwards. But I could not refuse the lovely lace Maurice insisted on giving
me: so I shall wear a veil instead of a bonnet--it is the only concession I make to conventionality."

"I wish you would go to sleep, Ethel: you will look very pale under your veil to-morrow."

"Well, I will try; but I don't feel like it. I hope Maurice will be back in good time. It was
very tiresome of that patient of his to send for him in such a hurry."

Then there was a silence, for both girls were growing sleepy; and it was with a yawn that Ethel
at last inquired--

"Lesley, why won't your father come to my wedding?"

"Won't he?" said Lesley, with a little start.

"Not he: I asked him again on Saturday, and he refused."

"Perhaps," said Lesley, not very steadily, "it gives him pain to be present at a wedding: he
speaks sometimes--as if he did not like to hear of them."

"Oh, you poor, dear thing, I had forgotten all that trouble," said Ethel, giving her friend
a hug which nearly strangled her; "but won't it come right in the end? Captain Duchesne says
that she is so sweet, so charming--and your father is just delightful."

"I think I can't talk about it," said Lesley, very quietly.

"Then we won't. Did you know I had asked Captain Duchesne to the breakfast?"

"Oh, Ethel, how heartless of you!" Lesley said, laughing in spite of herself. For Captain Duchesne's
devotion was patent to all the world.

At last they slept in each other's arms; but at seven o'clock Ethel was skimming about the
room like a busy fairy, and it was Lesley, sleeping heavily after two or three wakeful nights,
who had to be aroused by the little bride-elect, and Ethel laughed merrily to see her friend's
start of surprise.

"Ethel! Ethel! People should be waiting on you and here you are bringing me tea and bread and
butter. This is too bad!"

"It's a new departure," Ethel laughed. "There is no law against a bride's making herself useful
as well as ornamental, is there? You will have to hurry up, all the same, Lesley: we are dreadfully
late already. And it is the loveliest morning you ever saw--and the bouquets have just come
from the florist--and everything is charming! I feel as if I could dance."

But Ethel's mirth did not communicate itself to Lesley. There was nothing forced or unnatural
in the young bride's happiness, but Lesley felt as if some cloud, some shadow, were in the
air. Perhaps she had had bad dreams. She would not damp Ethel's spirits by a word of warning,
but the old aunt from the country who came to inspect her niece as soon as she was dressed
for church was not so considerate.

"You are letting your spirits run away with you, my dear," she said, reprovingly. "Even on
a wedding-day there should not be too much laughter. Tears before night, when there has been
laughter before breakfast, remember the proverb says."

"Oh, what a cheerful old lady!" said Ethel, brimming over with saucy laughter once more, as
soon as the old dame's back was turned. "I don't care: I don't mean to be anything but a smiling
bride--Oliver says that he hates tears at a wedding, and I don't mean him to see any."

Maurice arrived just in time to dress and to escort his sister to the church. It was not he,
but Mrs. Durant, the companion and house-keeper, who first received a word of warning that
things were not altogether as they should be. Others beside Lesley were scenting calamity in
the air. Mrs. Romaine was to form one of the wedding-party. She made her appearance at a quarter
to ten, beautifully dressed, but white to the very lips, and with a haggard look about her
eyes. As soon as she entered the house she drew Mrs. Durant aside.

"Has Oliver been sleeping here?" she asked.

"Here!" Mrs. Durant's indignant accent was sufficient answer.

"He has not been home all night," Mrs. Romaine whispered.

"Not at home!"

"I suppose he is sleeping at his club and will come on from there," Mrs. Romaine answered,
trying to reassure herself now that she had given the alarm to another. "Everything has been
ordered--my bouquet came from him, at least from the florist's this morning--and I suppose
we shall find him at the church. But I have been dreadfully anxious about him--quite foolishly,
I daresay. Don't say anything to any body else."

Mrs. Durant did not mean to say anything, but--without exactly stating facts--she had managed
in about three minutes to convey her own and Mrs. Romaine's feeling of discomfort, to the whole
party. The only exceptions were Maurice and Ethel, who, of course, heard nothing. A gloom fell
upon the guests even while the carriages were standing at the door.

Lesley and Mrs. Romaine happened to be placed in the same carriage, facing one another. They
looked at one another in silence, but with a mutual understanding that they had never felt
before. Each read her own fear in the other's face. But the fear came from different sources.
Lesley was afraid that Oliver had felt himself unable to fulfil his engagement to Ethel, and
had therefore severed his connection with her by flight: Rosalind feared that he had been taken
ill or met with some untoward accident. Only in Rosalind's mind there was always another fear
in the background where her brothers were concerned--that one or other of them would be bringing
himself and her to disaster and disgrace. She had no faith in them, and not much faith in herself.

There was no bridegroom in waiting at St. Pancras' Church. Mrs. Romaine held a hurried consultation
with a friend, and a messenger was despatched to Oliver's club, where he sometimes slept, and
also to the rooms which he called his "chambers" in the city. A little silence overspread the
group of guests from the Kenyons' house. Other visitors, of whom there were not many, looked
blithe enough; but gloom was plainly visible on the faces of the bride's friends. And a little
whisper soon ran from group to group--"The bridegroom has not come."

If only he would appear before the bride! There was yet time. The carriage containing Ethel
and her brother had not started from the door. But the distance was short, and speedily traversed:
still Oliver did not come. And there at last was the wedding-chariot with its white silk linings
and the white favors on the horses--and there was the pretty, smiling bride herself upon her
brother's arm. How sweet she looked as she mounted the broad grey steps, with cheeks a little
rosy, eyes downcast, and her smiles half concealed by the costly lace in which she had veiled
herself! There was never a prettier bride than Ethel Kenyon, although she had not attired herself
in all the bridal finery that many women covet.

Something in the expression of the faces that met her at the church door startled her a little
when she first looked up: she changed color, and glanced wonderingly from one to another. Some
one spoke in Maurice Kenyon's ear.

"What is it?" she asked, quickly. "Is anything wrong?"

"Oliver is late, dear, that is all. Just wait a minute--here by the door: he will be here presently."

"Late!" re-echoed the girl, turning suddenly pale. "Oh Maurice, what do you mean? We were late
too--it is a quarter past ten."

"Hush, my darling, he will be here directly, and more distressed than any of us, no doubt."

"I should think so," said Ethel, trying to laugh. "Poor Oliver! what a state he will be in!"

But the hand with which she had suddenly clutched Lesley's arm trembled, and her lips were
very white.

For a minute, for five, for ten minutes, the bridal party waited, but Oliver did not come.
A messenger came back to say that he had not been at the club since the previous day. And then
Maurice's hot temper blazed up. He left his sister and spoke to his old friend, Miss Brooke.

"Do not let Ethel make herself a laughing-stock," he said. "The man insults us by being late,
and shall account to me for it, but she must be got out of this somehow. Can't you take her away?"

"Let her go to the vestry," said Miss Brooke. "You had better not take her away just yet--look
at the crowd outside. I will get Lesley to persuade her."

Ethel made no opposition. She went quietly into the vestry and sat down on a seat that was
offered to her, waiting in silence, asking no questions. Then there was a short period of whispered
consultation, of terrible suspense. She herself did not know whether the time was short or
long. She could not bear even Lesley's arm about her, or the support of Maurice's brotherly
hand. Harry Duchesne's dark face in the background seemed in some inexplicable sort of way
the worst of all. For she knew that he loved and admired her, and she was shamed by a recreant
lover before his very eyes.

After a time Maurice was called out. A policeman in plain clothes wanted to speak to him. They
had five minutes' conversation together, and then the young doctor returned to the room where
Ethel was still sitting. His face was as white as that of his sister now, and she was the first
to remark the change.

"You have heard something," she said, springing to her feet and fixing her great dark eyes
upon his face.

"Yes, Ethel, my poor darling, yes. Come home with me."

"Not till you tell me the truth."

"Not here, my darling--wait till we get home. Come at once."

"I must know, Maurice: I cannot bear to wait. Is he--is he--dead?"

He would gladly have refused to answer, but his pallid lips spoke for him. And from another
group a shriek rang out from the lips of Rosalind Romaine--a shriek that told her all.

"Dead? Murdered? Oh, no, no--it cannot be?" cried Oliver's sister. "Not dead! not dead!"

She fell back in violent hysterics, but Ethel neither wept nor cried aloud. She stood erect,
her head a little higher than usual, a smile that might almost be called proud curving her
soft lips.

"You see," she said, unsteadily, but very clearly; "you see--it was not his fault. He would
have come--if he had been--alive."

And, then, still smiling, she gave her hand to her brother and let him lead her away. But before
she had crossed the threshold of the room, he was obliged to take her in his arms to save her
from falling, and it was in his arms that she was carried back to the carriage which she had
left so smilingly.

But for those who were left behind there was more bad news to hear. In London no secret can
be kept even from the ears of those whose heart it breaks to hear it. Before noon the newsboys
were crying in the streets--

"Brutal murder of a gentleman on his wedding-day. Arrest of a well-known journalist."

And everywhere the name bandied from pillar to post was that of Mr. Caspar Brooke, who had
been arrested on suspicion of having caused the death of Oliver Trent.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

IN ETHEL'S ROOM.

To those who knew Caspar Brooke best, it seemed ridiculously impossible that he should have
been accused of any act of violence. But the accusation was made with so much circumstantial
detail that no course seemed open to the police but to arrest him with as little delay as possible.
And before the ill-fated wedding party had been dispersed, before Miss Brooke could hurry home,
and long before Lesley suspected the blow that was in store for her, he had been taken by two
policemen in plain clothes to the Bow Street Police station.

The full extent of the misfortune did not burst upon Doctor Sophy all at once. When she left
the church the accusation was not publicly known, and as she walked home she reflected on the
account that she must give to her brother of the extraordinary events of the day. She wished
he had been present, and wondered why he had shirked the invitation which had been sent him
by Ethel. He was not usually out of bed at this hour, but she resolved to go to his room and
tell him the story at once, for, though he had never cared much for poor Oliver Trent, he had
always been fond of Ethel. Lesley had gone to the Kenyons' house at Maurice's earnest request,
and might not be back for some time.

She opened the door with her latch-key, and, to her great surprise, was confronted at once
by Sarah, her face swollen, and her eyes red with weeping.

"Sarah! why--have you heard the dreadful news already?" said Miss Brooke.

"Have you heard it, is more the question, I'm thinking?" said Sarah, grimly.

"Of course you mean--about poor Mr. Trent?"

"More than that, ma'am. However, here's a letter from master to you, and that'll tell you more
than I can do." And Sarah, handed a note to her mistress, and retired to the back of the hall,
sniffing audibly.

Miss Brooke walked into the dining-room and opened the note. Caspar had gone out, she gathered
from the fact of his having written to her at all: perhaps he had heard of Oliver Trent's death,
and had gone to offer his services to Maurice, or to assist in discovering the murderer. So
she thought to herself; and then she began to read the note.

In another minute Sarah heard a strange, muffled cry; and running into the room found that
Miss Brooke had sunk down on the sofa, and was trembling in every limb. Her brother's letter
was crushed within her hand.

"What does it mean, Sarah?--what does it mean?" she stammered, with a face so white and eyes
so terror-stricken that Sarah took her to task at once.

"It means a great, big lie, ma'am, that's all it means. Why, you ain't going to be put about
by that, I hope, when master himself says--as he said to me--that he'd be home afore night!
I'm ashamed of you, looking as pale as you do, and you a doctor and all!"

"Did he say to you he would be home before night?" said Miss Brooke collecting herself a little,
but still looking very white.

Sarah took a step nearer to her, and spoke in a low voice. "Nobody else in the house knows
where he's gone," she said, "but I know, for master called me himself, and told me what they
wanted him for. It was two men in plain clothes, and there was a cab outside and a p'liceman
on the box. 'Of course it's all a mistake, Sarah,' he said to me, as light-hearted as you please,
'and don't let Miss Lesley or your Missus be anxious. I dare say I shall be back in an hour
or two.' And then he asked the men if he might write a note, and they let him, though they
read it as he wrote, the nasty wretches!"--and Sarah snorted contemptuously, while she wiped
away a tear from her left eye with her apron.

"But it is so extraordinary--so ridiculous!" said Miss Brooke. And then, with a little more
color in her face, she read her brother's letter over again.

It consisted only of these words--

     "DEAR SOPHY,--Don't worry yourself. The police have got it into
     their wise heads that I had something to do with poor Trent's
     tragic end. I dare say I shall be back soon, but I must go and hear
     what they've got to say. Take care of Lesley--C. B."

"Take care of Lesley! As if she wanted taking care of!" said Miss Brooke, with sudden energy.
"Sarah, go over at once to Mr. Kenyon's, and tell Miss Lesley to come home. She can't stay
there while this is going on. It isn't decent."

Sarah was rather glad to execute this order. She was of opinion that Miss Lesley needed to
be taken down a bit, and that this was the way in which the Lord saw fit to do it. And it never
occurred to Miss Brooke to caution the woman against startling Lesley or hurting her feelings.
She had been startled certainly, and almost overcome; but she belonged to that class of middle-aged
women who think that their emotions must necessarily be stronger than those of young people,
because they are older and understand what sorrow means, whereas the reverse is usually the
case. Besides, Miss Brooke quite underrated the warmth of Lesley's attachment to her father,
and was not prepared to see her experience anything but shallow and commonplace regret.

So Sarah went to the house opposite and knocked at the door. She had to knock twice before
the door was opened, for the whole household was out of joint. The maids were desperately clearing
away all signs of festivity--flowers, wedding-cake, the charming little breakfast that had
been prepared for the guests--everything that told of wedding preparation, and had now such
a ghastly look. Under Mrs. Durant's direction the servants were endeavoring to restore to the
rooms their wonted appearance. Ethel's trunks had been piled into an empty room: she would
not want her trousseau now, poor child. The uncle from the country was pacing up and down the
deserted drawing-room; the aunt was fussing about Ethel's dressing-room, nervously folding
up articles of clothing and putting away trifles. All the blinds were down, as if for a funeral.
And in Ethel's own room, the girl lay on her bed, white and rigid as a corpse, with half-shut
eyes that did not seem to see, and fingers so tightly closed that the nails almost ran into
her soft palms. Since she had been laid there she had not spoken; no one could quite tell whether
she were conscious or not; but Lesley, who sat beside her, and sometimes laid her cheek softly
against the desolate young bride's cold face, or kissed the ashen-grey lips, divined by instinct
that she was not unconscious although stunned by the force of the blow--that she was thinking,
thinking, thinking all the time--thinking of her lost lover, of her lost happiness, and beating
herself passionately against the wall of darkness which had arisen between her and the future
that she had planned for herself and Oliver.

Sarah asked at once for Miss Lesley Brooke, and Mrs. Durant came out of the dining-room to
speak to the messenger.

"Is Miss Brooke wanted very particularly?" she asked. "Miss Kenyon will not have anyone else
with her."

"I think I must speak to Miss Lesley, ma'am; my mistress said I must," said Sarah, primly.
Then, forgetting her loyalty to her employers in her desire to be communicative, she went on--"Maybe
you haven't heard what's happened, ma'am. Mr. Brooke's been taken up on the charge of murder----"

This was not strictly true, but it was the way in which Sarah read the facts.

"And Miss Brooke says Miss Lesley must come home, as it is not proper for her to stay."

The horror depicted on Mrs. Durant's face was quite as great as Sarah had anticipated, and
even more so. For Mrs. Durant, a conventional and narrow-minded woman, did not know enough
of Caspar Brooke's character to feel any indignation at the accusation: indeed, she was the
sort of woman who was likely to put a vulgar construction upon his motives, and regard it as
probable that he had quarreled with Oliver for not wishing to marry Lesley instead of Ethel
Kenyon. And she at once grasped the situation. Under the circumstances--if Caspar Brooke had
killed Ethel's lover--it was most improper that Caspar Brooke's daughter should be staying
in the house.

"Of course!" she said, with a shocked face. "Miss Lesley Brooke must go at once--naturally.
How very terrible! I am much obliged to Miss Brooke for sending--as Ethel's chaperon I couldn't
undertake----I'll go upstairs and send her down to you."

Sarah was left in the hall, while Mrs. Durant went upstairs. But after a time the lady came
down with a troubled air.

"I can't get her to come," she said. "You must go up yourself, Sarah, and speak to her. She
will come into the dressing-room, she says, for a minute, but she cannot leave Miss Kenyon
for a longer time. You must tell her quietly what has happened, and then she will no doubt
see the advisability of going away."

Sarah went upstairs, therefore, and entered the dressing-room, where the old aunt was still
busy; and in a minute or two Lesley appeared.

"What is it?" she said, briefly.

"Your aunt sent me to say you must come home at once, miss."

"I cannot come just yet: Miss Kenyon wishes me to stay with her," said Lesley, with dignity.

"You'd better come, Miss Lesley. I don't want to tell you the dreadful news just now: you'd
better hear it at home. Then you'll be glad you came. It's your pa, miss."

"My father! Oh, Sarah, what do you mean? Is he ill? is he dead? What is it?"

"He's been arrested, miss, for killing Mr. Trent."

Sarah spoke in a whisper, but it seemed to her hearers as if she had shouted the words at the
top of her voice. Mrs. Durant pressed her hands together and uttered a little scream. Lesley
turned deadly white, and laid one hand on the back of a chair, as if for support. And the old
aunt immediately ran into the inner room, and burst into tears over Ethel's almost inanimate
form, bewailing her, and calling her a poor, injured, heartbroken girl, until Ethel opened
her great dark eyes, and fixed them upon the aged, distorted face with a questioning look.

"Lesley!" she breathed. "I want Lesley."

"Oh, my dearest child, you must do without Lesley now. It is not fit that she should come to you."

But Ethel's lips again formed the same sounds: "I want Lesley." And the old lady continued--

"She must not come, dear: you cannot see Lesley Brooke again. It is her father who has done
this terrible thing--blighted your life--destroyed your happiness----"

And so she would have babbled on had not Ethel all at once raised herself in her bed, with
white face and flaming eyes, and called in tones as clear and resonant as ever--

"Lesley! Lesley! come back!"

And then the old aunt was silent: silent and amazed.

From the next room Lesley came, softly and swiftly as was her wont. Her face was pale, but
her eyes and lips were steady. She went straight to Ethel; was at once encircled by the girl's
arms, and drew Ethel's head down upon her shoulder.

"Shall I go?" she whispered in Ethel's ear.

"No, no; don't leave me."

"You know what they say? Can you trust my father?"

"I trust you both. Stay with me."

Lesley raised her head and looked back at the little group of meddlesome women who had tried
to tear her from her friend's side. At the look they disappeared. They dared not say another
word after meeting the rebuke conveyed in Lesley's pale, set face and resolute eyes. They closed
the door behind them, and left the two girls alone.

For a long time neither spoke. Ethel seemed to have relapsed once more into a semi-unconscious
state. Lesley sat motionless, pillowing her friend's head against her shoulder, and stroking
one of her hands with her own. Now and then hot tears welled over and dropped upon Ethel's
dark, curly head, but Lesley did not try to wipe them away. She scarcely knew that she was
crying: she was only aware of a great weight of trouble that had come upon her--trouble that
seemed to include in its effects all that she held most dear. Trouble not only to her friend,
but to her father, her mother, her lover. Not a shadow of doubt as to her father's innocence
rested upon her mind: there was no perplexity, no shame--only sorrow and anxiety. Not many
women could have borne the strain of utter silence with such a burden laid on them to bear.
But to Lesley, even in that hour, Ethel's trouble was greater than her own.

An hour must have passed away before Ethel murmured,

"Lesley--are you there?"

"Yes, I am with you, darling: I am here."

"You are crying."

"I am crying for you, Ethel, dear."

For the first time, Ethel's hand answered to her pressure. After a little silence, she spoke
again--

"I wish I could die--too."

"My poor little Ethel."

"I suppose there is no chance of that. People--like me--don't die. They only suffer--and suffer--and
break their hearts--and live till they are eighty. Oh, if you were kind to me, you would give
me something to make me die."

She shuddered, and crept a little closer to Lesley's bosom. "Oh, why must he go--without me--without
me?" she cried. And then she burst out suddenly into bitter weeping, and with Lesley's arms
about her she wept away some of the "perilous stuff" of misery which had seemed likely to destroy
the balance of her brain. When those tears came her reason was saved, and Lesley was wise enough
to be reassured and not alarmed by them.

She was very much exhausted when the burst of tears was over, and Lesley was allowed to feed
her with strong soup, which she took submissively from her friend. "You won't go?" she whispered,
when the meal was done. And Lesley whispered back: "I will not go, darling, so long as you
want me here."

"I want you--always." Then with a gleam of returning strength and memory: "What was it they
said about your father?"

Lesley shivered.

"Never mind, Ethel, dear," she said.

"But--I know--I remember. That he was--a--oh, I can't say the word. But that is not true."

"I know it is not true. It is a foolish, cruel mistake."

"It could not be true," Ethel murmured. "He was always kind and good. Tell him--from me--that
I don't believe it, Lesley. And don't let them take you away from me."

Holding Lesley's hand in hers, at last she fell asleep; and sleep was the very thing that was
likely to restore her. The doctor came and went, forbidding the household to disturb the quiet
of the sick-room; and after a time, Lesley, exhausted by the excitements and anxieties of the
day, laid her head on the pillow and also slept. It was late in the afternoon when Maurice
Kenyon, stealing softly into the room, found the two heads close together on one pillow, the
arms interlaced, the slumber of one as deep as of the other. His eyes filled with tears as
he looked at the sleeping figures. "Poor girls!" he muttered to himself. "Well for them if
they can sleep; but I fear that theirs will be a sad awakening."

Suddenly Lesley opened her eyes. The color rushed to her pale cheeks as she saw who was regarding
her, but she had sufficient self-control not to start or move too hastily. Ethel altered her
position at that moment, and left Lesley free to rise, then sank back to slumber. And, obeying
a silent motion of Maurice Kenyon's hand, Lesley followed him noiselessly into the dressing-room.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

THE EVIDENCE.

"She ought not to be left alone: I promised not to leave her," said Lesley in a low tone.

"I have brought a nurse with me. She can go in and sit by the bed until you are ready to return,"
said Maurice, quietly. "Call us, nurse, if my sister wakes and asks for us; but be very careful
not to disturb her unnecessarily."

The nurse, whose face Lesley scanned with involuntary interest, was gentle and sensible-looking,
with kindly eyes and a strong, well-shaped mouth. She looked like a woman to be trusted; and
Lesley was therefore not sorry to see her pass into Ethel's room. She had felt very conscious
of her own ignorance of nursing during the past few hours, and had not much confidence in the
sense or judgment of any woman in the house. Maurice made her sit down, and then stood looking
at her for a moment.

"You are terribly pale," he said at last. "Will you come downstairs and let me give you something
to eat and drink?"

"Oh, no, thank you. I want nothing. And Ethel may need me: I cannot bear to be far away."

"Have you had nothing all day? It is after five o'clock."

She shook her head.

"Then you must eat before I talk to you. I have several things to say, and you must have strength
to listen. Sit still: I will be back directly."

He went away, and Lesley leaned back in her chair and closed her eyes. She was very weary,
but even in her trouble there was some sweetness for her in the knowledge that Maurice was
attending to her needs. When he returned with wine and food, she roused herself to accept both,
knowing very well that he would not tell her what she wanted to hear until she had done his
bidding. The door between bed and dressing room was closed; the house was very quiet, and the
light was dim. Maurice spoke at last, in grave, low tones.

"I have just come from your father," he said. Lesley started and clasped her hands. "Is he
at home again?"

"No. They would not let him go. But take heart--we, who know him, will stand by him until he
is a free man."

"Then you believe--as I believe?" she asked, tremulously.

"Would it be possible for me to do otherwise? Hasn't he been my friend for many a year? You
have surely no need to ask!"

Lesley, looking up at him, stretched out her hand in silence. He took it in both his own and
kissed it tenderly. Seeing her grief, and seeing also her sympathy for another woman who grieved,
had, for the time being, cured him of his anger against her. He had cherished some bitter feeling
towards her for a while; but he forgot it now.

"I am as sure," he said, fervently, "that Caspar Brooke could not commit murder as I am sure
that you could not. It is an absurdity to think of it."

"Then what has made people think of it?" asked Lesley. "How has it come about?"

Maurice paused. "There is a mystery somewhere," he said slowly, "which is a little difficult
to fathom. Can you bear to hear the details? Your father told me to tell them to you--as gently
as I could."

"Tell me all--all, please."

"Poor Oliver Trent was found dead early this morning on the stair of a lodging-house in Whitechapel.
I have been to the place myself: it is now under the care of the police. He had been beaten
about the head ... it was very horrible ... with a thick oaken staff or walking stick ... the
stick lay beside him, covered with blood, where he was found. The stick was--was your father's,
unfortunately: it must have been stolen by some ruffian for the purpose--and--and----"

He stopped short, as if the story were too hard to tell. Lesley sat watching his face, which
was as pale as her own.

"Go on," she said, quickly. "What else?"

"A pocket-book--with gilt letters on the back: C. B. distinctly marked. That was also found
on the stairs, as if it had dropped from the pocket of some man as he went down. And it is
proved--indeed, your father tells me so--that he went to that house last night and did not
leave it until nearly midnight."

"But why was he there?"

"He went to see the man and woman who lived in the top room of that lodging-house. I think
you know the woman. She was once your maid----"

"Mary Kingston? She came to our house that very afternoon. She must have asked my father to
go to see her--he spoke kindly of her to me. But why did Mr. Trent go there too?"

"There have been secrets kept from us which have now come to light," said Maurice, sadly. "Oliver
went there to see his brother Francis, who was ill in bed; and his brother's wife was no other
than the woman who acted as your maid, Mary Kingston--or rather Mary Trent. Kingston left your
house on Saturday, it seems, because she had caught sight of her husband in the street: he
had been very ill, and she felt herself obliged to go home with him and put him to bed. He
has been in bed, unable to rise, she tells me, ever since."

"But she--she," said Lesley eagerly, "can explain the whole matter. She must have heard the
fight--the scuffle--whatever it was--upon the stairs. She ought to be able to tell when father
left the house--and when Mr. Trent left the house. They did not go together, did they?" there
was a touch of scorn in her voice.

"No, they did not go together. But what Mrs. Trent alleges is, that your father waited for
Oliver on the stairs, and attacked him there. It is a malicious, wicked lie--I am sure of that.
But it is what she says she is willing to swear."

"Mrs. Trent!" Lesley repeated vaguely. "Mrs. Trent! Do you mean--Kingston? Kingston swears
that my father lay in wait for Oliver Trent upon the stairs? It is impossible!"

"Yes, Kingston," Maurice answered, in a low, level voice. "It is Kingston who has accused your
father of the crime."

Lesley covered her face with her hands, and for a moment or two did not speak. "It is too terrible,"
she said at last, not very steadily. "I do not know how to believe it. I always trusted her.
Is there nobody worth trusting in the world? Is there no truth and faith anywhere at all?"

The tears were raining down her cheeks as she spoke. Maurice looked at her with wistful tenderness.

"Can you ask that question when you have such a father?" he asked. "And I--have I done anything
to deserve your want of trust?"

She could only sob out incoherent words by way of answer. "Not you--not my father--I was thinking--of
others--others I have trusted and been deceived in."

"Oliver Trent," he said--not as a question so much as by way of sad assertion. She drew her
handkerchief away from her eyes immediately, and gazed at him through her tears, with flushed
cheeks and panting breath. What did he mean? He did not leave her long in doubt.

"Kingston--Mrs. Trent--has told a strange story," he said. "She avers that Oliver was false--false
to my poor little sister who believed in him so entirely--false to himself and false to us.
They say you knew of this. She says that he--he made love to you, that he asked you to marry
him--to run away with him indeed--so late as last Saturday. She had hidden herself between
the folding-doors in order to hear what went on. Lesley, is this true?"

She was white enough now. She cast one appealing glance at his face, and then said, almost
inaudibly--

"Don't tell Ethel."

"Then it was true?"

"Quite true!"

"Oh, my God!" cried Maurice, involuntarily. He did not use the words with any profane intention:
they escaped his lips as a sort of cry of agony, of protest, almost of entreaty. He had hoped
until this moment that Lesley would be able to deny this charge. When she acknowledged its
truth, the conviction of Oliver's falsity, the suspicion of Lesley's faith, smote him like
a blow. He drew back from her a little and looked at her steadfastly. Lesley raised her candid,
innocent eyes to his, and, after a moment's silence, made her defence.

"I could not help it. If Kingston speaks the truth, she will tell you that. He locked the door
so that I could not get out, and then ... I said I would never speak to him again. I was never
so angry--so ashamed--in all my life. You must not think that I--I too--was false to Ethel.
She is my friend, and I never dreamed of taking him away from her. I never cared--in that way--for
him, and even if I had----"

"You never cared? Did you not love him, too?"

"No! no, indeed! I hated him. If Kingston says so she is lying about me, as she is lying about
my father. You say that you do not believe her when she speaks against him: surely you won't
believe her when she speaks against me? Can't you trust my father's daughter, as well as my
father?"

The voice was almost passionate in its pleading: the lovely eyes were eloquent of reproach.
Maurice felt his whole being quiver: he was shaken to the very depths. Why should she plead
to him in this way if she had no love at all for him? Why should she be so anxious that he
should trust her? And did he not? He could not look into her face and think for one moment
that she lied.

"I do trust--your father's daughter," he said, hoarsely. "I trust her above all women living!--God
knows that I do. You did not love Oliver? It was not to him that you made some promise you
spoke of--some promise against engaging yourself?"

"It was to my mother," said Lesley, simply. "I am sorry that I did not make you understand."

He took a quick step nearer. "May I say more?"

She shook her head.

"But--some day?"

"Not now," she answered, softly. But a very faint and tremulous smile quivered for one moment
on her lips. "It is very wrong to talk of ourselves just now. Go on with your story--tell me
about my dear, dearest father."

"I will," said Maurice. "I will do exactly what you wish--just now"--with a great accent on
the last two words. "We will talk about that promise at a more fitting time, Lesley--I may
call you Lesley, may I not? There is no harm in that, for you are like a sister to my poor
Ethel, and you may as well let me be a brother to you, dear, just now. Well, Lesley"--how he
lingered over the name!--"Mrs. Trent says that she returned to your house on Monday afternoon
in order to warn your father of what was going, on----"

"Oh! Did she really?"

"Yes, for your father tells me she did so. She also told him various stories of Oliver's baseness,
which he felt it his duty to inquire into, and in order that, he might have an interview with
Oliver, she arranged with him to come that night to the house in Whitechapel, where she and
her husband were living. There she was to confront him with Oliver, and she said that in her
presence he would not dare to deny that her tales were true."

"But why did father agree to that? Why did he want to find out?"

"For Ethel's sake. He wanted to protect her. If Mrs. Trent could prove her stories, he meant
to expose Oliver to Ethel and myself, if it were but an hour before her marriage----"

"And why didn't he?" demanded Lesley, breathlessly.

"Because--here comes in your father's evidence--your father assures me that when he reached
the house that night and confronted Oliver, the woman took back every word that she had uttered,
and declared that it was all a lie. And Oliver, of course, persisted that he had done nothing
amiss. Your father says he was so much tempted to strike Oliver to the ground--for he did not
believe in Kingston's retractation--that he flung his stick out upon the landing lest he should
use it too effectually. He forgot to pick it up, and came away without it. The pocket-book
must of course have fallen out of his pocket as he left the house."

"Then he could not convict Mr. Trent of anything?"

"No, and so he did not feel justified in meddling. But he wishes that he had gone to Ethel
at once--or that I had been at home and that he had come to me. He is reproaching himself terribly
for his silence now."

"As I have been reproaching myself for mine," said Lesley.

"You have no need. Ethel would never have believed the stories--and as Mrs. Trent denied them
again, I think that Oliver would have carried the day. But let her deny them as she will, I
believe that they were true, and that Oliver was a villain. Our poor Ethel may live to bless
the day when she was delivered from him."

"I am afraid she will never believe us, or forgive us if she does," sighed Lesley. "But what
else happened?"

"Your father left the building, after a long and angry conversation, about midnight. Oliver
remained behind. Of course your father knows nothing more. But Mrs. Trent says that Oliver
went away ten minutes later, and that she then heard loud words and the sound of a struggle
upon the stairs. Fights are too common in that neighborhood to excite much remark. She, however,
feeling anxious, stole down the upper flight of stairs, and distinctly saw Mr. Brooke and her
brother-in-law struggling together. She maintains that Mr. Brooke's stick was in his hand."

"How wickedly false! Why did she not scream if she saw such a sight?"

"She was afraid. And she says that she did not think it would come to--murder. She crept back
to her room again, and in a few minutes everything was quiet. Only--in the early morning the
dead body of Oliver Trent was found upon the stairs, and then she gave information as to what
she had seen and heard."

There was a short silence. Then Lesley said, very tremulously--"It sounds like a plot--a plot
against my dear father's good name!"

"And a very cleverly concocted plot too," thought Maurice to himself in silent rage; but he
dared not say so much aloud. He only answered, tenderly--

"Such a plot can never come to good, Lesley. You and I together--we will unravel it--we will
clear your father, and bring him back to the world again."

"He is not coming home just yet, then?"

"I am afraid--dear, do not tremble so--he will have to take his trial. But he will be acquitted,
you will see."

She let him press her fingers to his lips again, and made no outward sign; but the two looked
into each other's eyes, and each was conscious of the presence of a deadly fear.

CHAPTER XXXV.

A VAIN APPEAL.

Lesley went home to sleep, and learned from her aunt the details of her father's arrest. "But
he will be back in a few hours," said Miss Brooke, obstinately. "They will be obliged to let
him ago. They will accept bail, of course. Mr. Kenyon thinks they will."

"Has Mr. Kenyon been here?"

"Oh, yes; he brought me a message from Caspar. What a horrible thing it is! But the ridiculous--absurd--part
of it is that your father should be accused. Why, your father was very friendly with Oliver
Trent--at least he used to be!" Then Miss Brooke paused, and fired an unexpected question at
her niece. "Have you any reason to think he was not?"

Lesley winced and hesitated. "I don't think he liked Mr. Trent very much," she said, at last;
"but that is a different thing----"

"From killing him? I should think so!" said Doctor Sophy, in a high tone of voice. She was
in her dressing-gown, and sitting before the fire that had been lighted in her own little sanctum
upstairs; but she was not smoking as she was usually at that hour. The occasion was too serious
for cigarettes: Doctor Sophy was denying herself. Perhaps that was the reason why she looked
so haggard and so angry, as she turned suddenly and spoke to her niece in a somewhat excited way.

"What made him unfriendly? Do you not know? It was because you flirted with Oliver Trent! I
really think you did, Lesley. And I know your father thought so too."

"Then he ought to have been vexed with me, not with Oliver," said Lesley, standing her ground,
but turning very pale.

"Yes, yes, but you are a girl, and he did not like to blame you. He spoke rather strongly about
Oliver Trent to me. However, it is no use saying so now. We had better keep that phase of the
matter as quiet as we can."

"Aunt Sophy," said Lesley, in a tremulous tone, "you don't mean--you don't think--that my--my
flirting, as you call it, with Mr. Trent will be spoken of and tend to hurt my father--my father's
good name?"

Aunt Sophy stared at her. "Of course it would hurt your father's chances if it were talked
about," she said, rather, sharply. "I don't see how it could do otherwise. People would say
that he might have quarrelled with Oliver about you, you know. But we must try to keep the
matter as quiet as we can. I'm prepared to swear that they were bosom-friends, and that I never
heard Caspar say a word against him; and you had better follow my example."

"But, Aunt Sophy--if I can't----"

"If you want to come the Jeanie Deans' business, my dear," said Miss Brooke, "you had better
reflect that personal application to the Queen for a pardon will not help you very much now-a-days.
I must confess that, although I admire Jeanie Deans very much, I don't intend to emulate her.
It's my opinion too that most women will tell lies for the sake of men they love, but not for
the sake of women."

"Oh, Aunt Sophy!"

"It is no good making exclamations," said Aunt Sophy, with unusual irritability. "If you are
different from all other women, I can't help it. I once thought that I was different myself,
but I find I am as great a fool as any of them. There, go to bed, child! Things will turn out
all right by and by. Nobody could be so absurd as to believe ill of your father."

"You think it will be all right?" said Lesley, wistfully.

"Don't ask me to believe in a God in heaven, if things go badly with Caspar," said Miss Brooke,
curtly. "Haven't I lived ten years in the house with the man, and don't I know that he would
not hurt a fly? He's the gentlest soul alive, although he looks so big and strong: the gentlest,
softest-hearted, most generous----But I suppose it is no good saying all that to your mother's
daughter?"--and Miss Brooke picked up a paper-covered volume that had fallen to her feet, and
began to read.

"I am my father's daughter too," said Lesley, with rather tremulous dignity, as she turned
away. She was too indignant with Miss Brooke to wish her good-night, and meant to leave the
room without another word. But Miss Brooke, dropping her book on her red flannel lap, and looking
uneasily over her shoulder at her niece's retreating figure, would not let her go.

"Come, Lesley, don't be angry," she said. "I am so upset that I hardly know what I am saying.
Come here and kiss me, child, I did not mean to vex you."

And Lesley came back and kissed her aunt, but in silence, for her heart was sore within her.
Was it perhaps true--or partially true--that she had been the cause of the misery that had
come upon them all? Indirectly and partially, unintentionally and without consciousness of
wrong-doing--and yet she could not altogether acquit herself of blame. Had she been more reserved,
more guarded in her behavior, Oliver Trent would never have fallen in love with her. Would
this have mended matters? If, as she gathered, the sole reason of her father's visit to the
Trents had been to assure himself of the true nature of her relations with Oliver--her cheeks
burned as she put the matter in that light, even to herself--why, then, she could not possibly
divest herself of responsibility. Of course she could not for one moment imagine that her father
had lifted his hand against Oliver; but his visit to the house shortly before the murder gave
a certain air of plausibility to the tale: and for this Lesley felt herself to blame.

