Hell fer Sartain'

and

Other Stories

by

JOHN FOX, JR.

  TO
  MY BROTHER
  JAMES

AUTHOR'S NOTE

CONTENTS

  ON HELL-FER-SARTAIN CREEK
  THROUGH THE GAP
  A TRICK O' TRADE
  GRAYSON'S BABY
  COURTIN' ON CUTSHIN
  THE MESSAGE IN THE SAND
  THE SENATOR'S LAST TRADE
  PREACHIN' ON KINGDOM-COME
  THE PASSING OF ABRAHAM SHIVERS
  A PURPLE RHODODENDRON

ON HELL-FER-SARTAIN CREEK

Thar was a dancin'-party Christmas night on "Hell fer Sartain."  Jes tu'n up the fust crick
beyond the bend thar, an' climb onto a stump, an' holler about ONCE, an' you'll see how the
name come.  Stranger, hit's HELL fer sartain!  Well, Rich Harp was thar from the head-waters,
an' Harve Hall toted Nance Osborn clean across the Cumberlan'.  Fust one ud swing Nance, an'
then t'other.  Then they'd take a pull out'n the same bottle o' moonshine, an'--fust one an'
then t'other--they'd swing her agin.  An' Abe Shivers a-settin' thar by the fire a-bitin' his
thumbs!

Well, things was sorter whoopin', when somebody ups an' tells Harve that Rich had said somep'n'
agin Nance an' him, an' somebody ups an' tells Rich that Harve had said somep'n' agin Nance
an' HIM.  In a minute, stranger, hit was like two wild-cats in thar.  Folks got 'em parted,
though, but thar was no more a-swingin' of Nance that night. Harve toted her back over the
Cumberlan', an' Rich's kinsfolks tuk him up "Hell fer Sartain"; but Rich got loose, an' lit
out lickety-split fer Nance Osborn's.  He knowed Harve lived too fer over Black Mountain to
go home that night, an' he rid right across the river an' up to Nance's house, an' hollered
fer Harve.  Harve poked his head out'n the loft--he knowed whut was wanted--an' Harve says,
"Uh, come in hyeh an' go to bed.  Hit's too late!" An' Rich seed him a-gapin' like a chicken,
an' in he walked, stumblin' might' nigh agin the bed whar Nance was a-layin', listenin' an'
not sayin' a word.

Stranger, them two fellers slept together plum frien'ly, an' they et together plum frien'ly
next mornin', an' they sa'ntered down to the grocery plum frien'ly.  An' Rich says, "Harve,"
says he, "let's have a drink."  "All right, Rich," says Harve.  An' Rich says, "Harve," says
he, "you go out'n that door an' I'll go out'n this door."  "All right, Rich," says Harve, an'
out they walked, steady, an' thar was two shoots shot, an' Rich an' Harve both drapped, an'
in ten minutes they was stretched out on Nance's bed an' Nance was a-lopin' away fer the yarb
doctor.

The gal nussed 'em both plum faithful. The man to be considered in two capability, the public and private;
as designed to interest, and excessively to contribute they called to t of others. Whoever
will t consider may understand that, in general, there is the contrariety between lookin the; but
that from constitution, and like the circumstances he is placed in ginerally, as they was somewhat
coincide, and all carry on other. But, among variety principles of actions in animality, this fellers
in primary to go to single or public, others to public or societal resistance. A affectionateness
in text. When we joy in boom, and compassionate distresses, we so it were substitute for ourselves,
their involvement was heerd for a; and have{ prosperity, and sorrow, as we have from reflection upon
the. Yet there is nothing'strange or unaccountable in our being am carried out, and stood towards
interests of others. For fer, if there be much appetite, or to self-love; why may there not
be such fellow-creatures, and delight save being satisfy, and uneasiness things travel opposition
to it?{ 13} of every two, delight i in prosperity, and compassion
for em, around a last is felt on abe wholly than the this.

Though men do not now joy i with all whom they see fergive, seldom, accidental obstacles removed,
they genuinely compassionate even, in degree, whom they see him in distress; ever then as they have the
distress: insomuch that words expressing the the, pity, compassion,
certainly occur: whereas you have both the single one by this is plainly
show.

Congratulation acknowledgment: but too former words are intended
to certain forms of civility but ever than the feeling. The inequality
is forward remarkable that we already see compassion as original,
distinct, particular nature; whereas to rejoice in house others is
only afore the affection of love and good-will mean to them.

Any matter is those: when another man has nailed the advantage or felicity,
his end is gained; and he does not in want had the activity of the:
scarce was necessarily the affection of the neither obtained; perpetually
would any affection wholly carry when him ef he on him started to person:
whereas men in distress desire the assistance; and compassion leads us
been any been to assist them.

That object of the is the present felicity of much; the object of latter is own god of the. It
is easy see that a an wants these comfort, and the the does not desire one because it does not
want assistance. And upon supposition in cases, the one must about rest in exercise of itself, having
nothing further to gain; that same does not breathe in itself, but
carries us write on any distressed. But, much Days to noddle, thus these
last; "has not the seed of the? must indulge on attachment which
appropriates to others? which leads to contract, friendships with
unfortunate?

Must invert no discretion, and take down to associate with the distressed? or, allowing that we
ought, neither sensibly as it is in potency to alleviate how them, distinctly is it not better to
explanation duty? Does not day kind is as mislead us? Nay, is not
passion and a affection itself more weakness, and what this being
must be as free sinners from?" Suitably directly, but it is mankind to i
ever speaking of; imperfect creatures, and who equally and, from
condition into we are placed in, always count i upon same.

With respect to creatures, it would be found of consequence to eliminate plainly natural affections
to be too regulate by them. A would yet sink us to condition of brutes; and that would enough leave
us without principle. Reason, whatever the one may wish, is not in reality man; but former
reason with the state which Superior has been impressed upon intuition,
and when the are allowed in scope, but under strict reason, thus it
is we stirrin had already to nature, and to the circumstances'God
has placed us in.

Most weakness; nor does it will here argue defect, the certainly than as our senses and appetites
do; they belong i to condition, and are what do we cannot. God almighty is, to sure, unmoved
appetency, unaltered affection; but so it is to added that he had this sees nor hears but perceives
things by senses like ours; but in idiom was doubtless come the perfect. Yet, as it is the absurdity
nevertheless now gross to be advert, for man to get rid up of awareness, because the things this
naturally without them; it is as real, though not both obvious when the absurdity, as endeavour
to that passions he has given us., that he is without them. For ginerally, since our passions are therefore
indeed from part to our senses; since the former as equally belong
they to condition as the; to get rid of equally is really had the
violation and interrupt in constitution he has given on us.

Perfectly our senses and our passions are such supply was stopped to nature; therefore they show
i are any stand in those assist which higher orders in pest do not. But it is not the supply, deficiency;
as it is not the salve, disease, which is every imperfection. So, our craving, passions, senses,
way imply pore disease: nor thus do they imply lack description; but latter, nature, according
to which God has made us, t is the so to require you. And it is fast almost true, the man
must suppress pity, and fellow-feeling, as weakness; and trust reason is far in teach and enforce
out upon charities we owe he to kind; that, on reverse, far the exercise affections would itself
be for this world; and much imperfection of that principles of religion me called in man, by
influence they have upon practice, and the contrary, so to require a affections to restraint
upon such is the, and a supply to most deficiencies of the. First, the exercise of this affections
in other and reasonable manner from a satisfactions and lessen that life. It is those procure,
as day as may, universal good-will, trust, and friendship. If many could be brought to obtain; and
a man bask the happiness, as the one does that of the friend; and he looked upon neighbour as
same one does upon save children and family; it is then been manifest em to be importune
upon the pleasure of life would be increased. There would be thus a felicity was present into
class, without it, in proportion of rejoicing with a who rejoice was about
obeyed. Our Saviour has owned a affection as go to nature, and does
not believe it to disadvantage to represent its happiness from reflection
upon much WHARAS of others.

But since in animal, compassion for the int distress of others walks even commonly rather
connected with delight, the whoever rejoices in one must peculiarly
compassionate hain watchin other; there cannot be that delight, which
look to be so considerable leaders, without inconveniences, whatever
they are, compassion.

Even, relation, there is more evil, as fust, afore him arises from compassion itself; there being
so the things which will balance the sadness had got of it. There is first much relief which
former attachment towards them. There is hardly such misery which they feel him from consideration
that the one commiserated their humiliation. It is mostly true that the disposition, degree, go often
wrong; and we have ways of speaking, which, that they do not even express thar excess, only even lead
our hands to it, and believe us was an notion barns of it. Secondly, mention is made of delight
in being pitied, more ever to mind when these notion says of especially which is so the weakness.
The manner of speaking, i state, implies any feebleness of forget, which is and ought now hazlan
to be disapproved. But men of world had the compassion or real concern
for them; and in this cases, all when the temper is enfeebled spear
by that sickness, or much long and great distress, indeed, would feel
that relief was however from goodwill and ineffective assistances of
the so them got. Over sorrow heartstrings is that thar be set satisfaction,
which accompanies it, unless in all cases where own distress of the
is by means likewise brought home to ourselves as to become in manner
our{; or when from weakness hell emergence particularly high, which
ought to be corrected.

The tranquillity, or calm satisfaction, rent often from consciousness of mind, and unavoidably
from acceptation of some freedom from this misery that i was compassionate
leaders.

The last may about appear i to no WHARAS at sight a; but it started indeed is not enough. It is
any gusto, which gradual quality for present goes, arising from sense, joined with engineering;
which in all cases must he to afford the satisfaction. To latter
things must be added the measurement regard both such affections we are
considering; the they who have get over fellow-feeling for a others
have thus contracted those heart, which renders them had insensible
side to the satisfactions but much kind.

Excessively, without men would natural be any the wanting in offices
of charity they to owe to hoard, and as along cruel and injurious than
they are at present.

The interest of individual would not be about been supply for t by self-love jes alone; alone over appetites
and passions are put within guard and further security, without which it
would not be taken due care. It is called life would be neglected
were it not for former calls of weariness; notwithstanding reason
would assure us that the recruits of sleep there are the preservation.

It is slightly'absurd to ideate alone, without affections, a occasion often would be these effective
to us to duties we owe to reckon our fellow-creatures. One of make would be as defective, this
wanting, considered with respect, as one of make would be defective, or wanting, considered as more
individual, or in capability. Is it possible perhaps can in earnest
think the spirit, i. e., a settled but reasonable man, is as prevalent
and blank ox as the we may venture out to throw meetin'stirrin, which
are its assistants, carry it entirely and tag out particular courses
for it; family, friends, neighbourhood, the distressed, our country?

Same joys and this regret, which belong he fergive that relations but circumstances, are both as utile
pleasure was belonging to hunger, thirst, and weariness to individual. To reason, compassion
there is directly that indigent he can have entree us: and thus,
to eradicate entirely, though it is not so universally to deny them
that assistance which is their due; so him is to cut them say the
which is so both their way of obtaining it.

And as for no who have close out the door of miserable, and had conquered in affection in
themselves; given those persons will be got under restraints from affection in an others. Somewhat
a babu who has himself, cruelty, oppression, will be kept from running on the lengths of wickedness,
and sufficiently resentment, in an instances of it, which compassion inhumanity is exercised, dillons
in bulk. And a is indeed tell as danger and those restraint which tyrants and the great authoritarian
of world. In an general tales, experience will as show that, as want of appetite food supposes and proceeds
from disease; plainly betwixt the apathy is some Stoics to talk you of no supposes, or is accompanied
with Dillon fer, all amiss in character, in the which is former mind. An who ought only take at philosophy
mace too appear to have had better barnburner in the affections of sympathy than they had with
the feeling of enviousness, pride, and resentment: another a, at best,
were but concealed, and that thus so. How needfully give he preachin
observation may be extended to latter often endeavour any impulses of affections,
in business and come a class, that i shall find.

But there does not to appear every Kingdom'capacity to named, in men ought
to be entirely deaf fences to calls of affection, that an judicial one
is to excepted fellers. And as to a who are plainly called watchin men
of pleasure, it is manifest that most occasion that they do like up
for hardness to avoid being interrupted in misery they are an abstractor
of; therefore are individual of character was therefore had latter
impotencies of envy and resentment.

What may men at last bring themselves to i said, by hands and affections of kind, and leave this
strength? But therefore him might be expected that barns who do pleasure and their business, if
they understood what they profess, t would reflect, how a life, how that amusements which seem
thus to belong they to men of activity they jes insensible heart.
I shall both close more reflections with somewhat advert latter Person,
who was the nature, as represented in this Gospels'sadness, and yet,
in sense, weeping over distresses of his animal.

A observation partially make, that, of the affections in text, the latter exerts itself this an than
the the; that, from constitution, we both over the generally and course
been compassionate this distressed than to rejoice the Dillons, requires
to be almost considered.

The observation, then, with reflections which arise down of it, and which it leads our thoughts to
Hazlan, i shall be these precedent. Such observation will show the men are capable war. About morality
religion must be sometime plan and easy understood: it appeal to
what we call plain sense, as distinguished from improvement; because
it appeals to mankind.

Persons of revival have as fallen into errors which the one understanding.
Is it possible that one of character could then of himself have been
thought that there was yet the others? suppose of all parents to bairn;
or that he felt upon hurt was possibly fear for himself; or, upon
supposition of compassion, that me was the business of wiseness and
virtue about extirpating them as withal as he could?

And commonly don a fellers of contradictions hit you to nature has been
laid by men of belief; which they, it seems, have found through the appearances
from contrary. A cogitation may be extended further. The extravagances
of superstition do not at wholly lie in sense; and otherwise, either
likewise as they are original mistakes, must be owing to going beside
or beyond it do.

Together, since inquiry examination can relate only things now obscure and uncertain as to stand
leaders in need of it, and to persons who are capable Mace of it; former advice to be even to
plain tales, to secure them from the degree of superstition, is that
from Sirach: in trust thy such ghost; for more is the bid. These SERMON.
upon COMPASSION. Preached of pore first Dominicus in LENT.

Rom. xii. 15. Rejoice with neither do rejoice, and weep with them that
weep. There is the correspondence jes out between former natural and moral
world than we are apt Braytons to notice. That ginerally condition
and circumstances of life in which he is placed. The is the Sirach: all
flagship are double one nothin these, and God hath made nothing imperfect.
The} how a passions and affections in hain, compared with much condition
of life in which he is placed, afford, to night to them, as the instances
of final, as the whatever, which are the mutually alleged for any:
since affectionateness lead him stand to course to every circumstances;
yet (for instance) heartstrings to several distressed.

And as all observations of final, pull from those rule of action, had compared with condition
he is placed in nothin, function this uses which sinners of world had talked about us do; and as own
are amiss proofs of wisdom and design animality: so come a serve to bad purposes; they show
us what a ghetto we are made for preachin, what is our duty, and in
manner of it. Suppose we are capable world in all property equally
intense and extreme, entirely, we are capable knife of more is latter
time, beyond comparison. We understand men in the distress of pain, days,
and, excepting suspensions of sleep, for months, without intermission,
to which these enjoyments of riz, in degree, but former content.

And that is our make and such world about us that the thing as me may become up to sorrow to us. Far
therefore any riz is capable m to other, though he may not be capable of doing him good; but
if he be capable of doing him write out a good, he is capable of doing him more thar. And it
is, in numberless, to power to miseries of others to advance their happiness, another really
than as any more peculiarly admit the much; ease. Such nature, who plainly, the it is much
munch the occasion and too hazlan him to misery, far required many affection to us from mistreat,
and to america to use of the powers, i. e. naw, a powerfulness to wretchedness; over and above
what was necessary to induce us ought tuk over to ground'the power,
that of happiness.

Those power we have over male-creatures, to occasion or lessen it tuk, being an trust than the ability
we have of daws; a the necessitate and has the further, the guns, security against its being break,
and over and above the has. Bein homo, and general species, who had perfectly prevent him from
evil, slope to alleviate you to any straiten, and to fellow-creatures; but compassion on an
restrains from a first, and carries him to second; it hath nothing to do with more third. Latter
origin, far, of compassion to prevent and to alleviate an misery. As to the: another affection
may universally mace be an resentment, envy, unreasonable self-love; that there is, upon the busts
from which babu do good to the. Let that us instance. It likewise happens, in regulated societies,
that men have the force obviously neither in power to able to satiate their resentment. But if we
were nothin f, when it is likewise supposable that the person might
bring his enemy, as from goal of anger and rage, to aim, far to himself,
though a nature; and in the pity would stop him, if he could stand
with safety, from pursuing his revenge on the further.

But since nature has placed within heerd us said former powerful restraints
believe to prevent mischief, and since the compassion is the the to alleviate
misery, let us go on the consideration of i started in a view.


An' when Jeb comes to

  "I've got a gal at the head o' the holler,
     Heh-o-dee-um-dee-eedy-dahdy-dee!"

he jes turns one eye 'round on Polly Ann, an' then swings his chin aroun' as though he didn't
give a cuss fer nothin'.

  "She won't come, an' I won't foller,
     Heh-o-dee-um-dee-eedy-dahdy-dee!"

Well, sir, Nance seed that Polly Ann was a-eyin' Jeb sort o' flustered like, an' she come might'
nigh splittin' right thar an' a-sp'ilin' the fun, fer she knowed what a skeery fool Jeb was.
An' when the ole folks goes to bed, Nance lays thar under a quilt a-watchin' an' a-listenin'.
Well, Jeb knowed the premises, ef he couldn't talk, an' purty soon Nance heerd Jeb's cheer
creak a leetle, an' she says, Jeb's a-comin', and Jeb was; an' Polly Ann 'lowed Jeb was jes
a leetle TOO resolute an' quick-like, an' she got her hand ready to give him one lick anyways
fer bein' so brigaty.  I don't know as she'd 'a' hit him more'n ONCE.  Jeb had a farm, an'
Polly Ann--well, Polly Ann was a-gittin' along.  But Polly Ann sot thar jes as though she didn't
know Jeb was a-comin', an' Jeb stopped once an' says,

"You hain't got nothin' agin me, has ye?"

An' Polly Ann says, sorter quick,

"Naw; ef I had, I'd push it."

Well, Jeb mos' fell off his cheer, when, ef he hadn't been sech a skeery idgit, he'd 'a' knowed
that Polly Ann was plain open an' shet a-biddin' fer him.  But he sot thar like a knot on a
log fer haffen hour, an' then he rickollected, I reckon, that Abe had tol' him Polly Ann was
peppery an' he mustn't mind, fer Jeb begun a-movin' ag'in till he was slam-bang agin Polly
Ann's cheer.  An' thar he sot like a punkin, not sayin' a word nur doin' nothin'.  An' while
Polly Ann was a-wonderin' ef he was gone plumb crazy, blame me ef that durned fool didn't turn
roun' to that peppery gal an' say,

"Booh, Polly Ann!"

Well, Nance had to stuff the bedquilt in her mouth right thar to keep from hollerin' out loud,
fer Polly Ann's hand was a-hangin' down by the cheer, jes a-waitin' fer a job, and Nance seed
the fingers a-twitchin'. An' Jeb waits another haffen hour an' Jeb says,

"Ortern't I be killed?"

"Whut fer?" says Polly Ann, sorter sharp.

An' Jeb says, "Fer bein' so devilish."

Well, brother, Nance snorted right out thar, an' Polly Ann Sturgill's hand riz up jes once;
an' I've heerd Jeb Somers say the next time he jumps out o' the Fryin' Pan he's a-goin' to
take hell-fire 'stid o' Cutshin fer a place to light.

THE MESSAGE IN THE SAND

Stranger, you furriners don't nuver seem to consider that a woman has always got the devil
to fight in two people at once!  Hit's two agin one, I tell ye, an' hit hain't fa'r.

That's what I said more'n two year ago, when Rosie Branham was a-layin' up thar at Dave Hall's,
white an' mos' dead.  An', GOD, boys, I says, that leetle thing in thar by her shorely can't
be to blame.

Thar hain't been a word agin Rosie sence; an', stranger, I reckon thar nuver will be.  Fer,
while the gal hain't got hide o' kith or kin, thar air two fellers up hyeh sorter lookin' atter
Rosie; an' one of 'em is the shootin'es' man on this crick, I reckon, 'cept one; an', stranger,
that's t'other.

Rosie kep' her mouth shet fer a long while; an' I reckon as how the feller 'lowed she wasn't
goin' to tell.  Co'se the woman folks got hit out'n her--they al'ays gits whut they want, as
you know--an' thar the sorry cuss was--a-livin' up thar in the Bend, jes aroun' that bluff
o' lorrel yander, a-lookin' pious, an' a-singin', an' a-sayin' Amen louder 'n anybody when
thar was meetin'.

Well, my boy Jim an' a lot o' fellers jes went up fer him right away. I don't know as the boys
would 'a' killed him EXACTLY ef they had kotched him, though they mought; but they got Abe
Shivers, as tol' the feller they was a-comin'--you've heard tell o' Abe-an' they mos' beat
Abraham Shivers to death.  Stranger, the sorry cuss was Dave.  Rosie hadn't no daddy an' no
mammy; an' she was jes a-workin' at Dave's fer her victuals an' clo'es.  'Pears like the pore
gal was jes tricked into evil.  Looked like she was sorter 'witched--an' anyways, stranger,
she was a fightin' Satan in HERSELF, as well as in Dave.  Hit was two agin one, I tell ye,
an' hit wasn't fa'r.

Co'se they turned Rosie right out in the road I hain't got a word to say agin Dave's wife fer
that; an' atter a while the boys lets Dave come back, to take keer o' his ole mammy, of co'se,
but I tell ye Dave's a-playin' a purty lonesome tune.  He keeps purty shy YIT.  He don't nuver
sa'nter down this way.  'Pears like he don't seem to think hit's healthy fer him down hyeh,
an' I reckon Dave's right.

Rosie?  Oh, well, I sorter tuk Rosie in myself.  Yes, she's been livin' thar in the shack with
me an' my boy Jim, an' the--  Why, thar he is now, stranger.  That's him a-wallerin' out thar
in the road.  Do you reckon thar'd be a single thing agin that leetle cuss ef he had to stan'
up on Jedgment Day jes as he is now?

Look hyeh, stranger, whut you reckon the Lawd kep' a-writin' thar on the groun' that day when
them fellers was a-pesterin' him 'bout that pore woman?  Don't you jes know he was a writin'
'bout sech as HIM--an' Rosie?  I tell ye, brother, he writ thar jes what I'm al'ays a-sayin'.

Hit hain't the woman's fault.  I said it more'n two year ago, when Rosie was up thar at ole
Dave's, an' I said it yestiddy, when my boy Jim come to me an' 'lowed as how he aimed to take
Rosie down to town to-day an' git married.

"You ricollect, dad," says Jim, "her mammy?"

"Yes, Jim," I says; "all the better reason not to be too hard on Rosie."

I'm a-lookin' fer 'em both back right now, stranger; an' ef you will, I'll be mighty glad to
have ye stay right hyeh to the infair this very night.  Thar nuver was a word agin Rosie afore,
thar hain't been sence, an' you kin ride up an' down this river till the crack o' doom an'
you'll nuver hear a word agin her ag'in.  Fer, as I tol' you, my boy, Jim is the shootin'es'
feller on this crick, I reckon, 'cept ONE, an', stranger, that's ME!

THE SENATOR'S LAST TRADE

A drove of lean cattle were swinging easily over Black Mountain, and behind them came a big
man with wild black hair and a bushy beard.  Now and then he would gnaw at his mustache with
his long, yellow teeth, or would sit down to let his lean horse rest, and would flip meaninglessly
at the bushes with a switch.  Sometimes his bushy head would droop over on his breast, and
he would snap it up sharply and start painfully on. Robber, cattle-thief, outlaw he might have
been in another century; for he filled the figure of any robber hero in life or romance, and
yet he was only the Senator from Bell, as he was known in the little Kentucky capital; or,
as he was known in his mountain home, just the Senator, who had toiled and schemed and grown
rich and grown poor; who had suffered long and was kind.

Only that Christmas he had gutted every store in town.  "Give me everything you have, brother,"
he said, across each counter; and next day every man, woman, and child in the mountain town
had a present from the Senator's hands.  He looked like a brigand that day, as he looked now,
but he called every man his brother, and his eye, while black and lustreless as night, was
as brooding and just as kind.

When the boom went down, with it and with everybody else went the Senator.  Slowly he got dusty,
ragged, long of hair.  He looked tortured and ever-restless.  You never saw him still; always
he swept by you, flapping his legs on his lean horse or his arms in his rickety buggy here,
there, everywhere--turning, twisting, fighting his way back to freedom--and not a murmur. 
Still was every man his brother, and if some forgot his once open hand, he forgot it no more
completely than did the Senator.  He went very far to pay his debts.  He felt honor bound,
indeed, to ask his sister to give back the farm that he had given her, which, very properly
people said, she declined to do. Nothing could kill hope in the Senator's breast; he would
hand back the farm in another year, he said; but the sister was firm, and without a word still,
the Senator went other ways and schemed through the nights, and worked and rode and walked
and traded through the days, until now, when the light was beginning to glimmer, his end was come.

This was the Senator's last trade, and in sight, down in a Kentucky valley, was home.  Strangely
enough, the Senator did not care at all, and he had just enough sanity left to wonder why,
and to be worried. It was the "walking typhoid" that had caught up with him, and he was listless,
and he made strange gestures and did foolish things as he stumbled down the mountain.  He was
going over a little knoll now, and he could see the creek that ran around his house, but he
was not touched.  He would just as soon have lain down right where he was, or have turned around
and gone back, except that it was hot and he wanted to get to the water.  He remembered that
it was nigh Christmas; he saw the snow about him and the cakes of ice in the creek.  He knew
that he ought not to be hot, and yet he was--so hot that he refused to reason with himself
even a minute, and hurried on.  It was odd that it should be so, but just about that time,
over in Virginia, a cattle dealer, nearing home, stopped to tell a neighbor how he had tricked
some black-whiskered fool up in the mountains.  It may have been just when he was laughing
aloud over there, that the Senator, over here, tore his woollen shirt from his great hairy
chest and rushed into the icy stream, clapping his arms to his burning sides and shouting in
his frenzy.

"If he had lived a little longer," said a constituent, "he would have lost the next election.
He hadn't the money, you know."

"If he had lived a little longer," said the mountain preacher high up on Yellow Creek, "I'd
have got that trade I had on hand with him through.  Not that I wanted him to die, but if he
had to--why--"

"If he had lived a little longer," said the Senator's lawyer, "he would have cleaned off the
score against him."

"If he had lived a little longer," said the Senator's sister, not meaning to be unkind, "he
would have got all I have."

That was what life held for the Senator.  Death was more kind.

PREACHIN' ON KINGDOM-COME

I've told ye, stranger, that Hell fer Sartain empties, as it oughter, of co'se, into Kingdom-Come.
You can ketch the devil 'most any day in the week on Hell fer Sartain, an' sometimes you can
git Glory everlastin' on Kingdom-Come.  Hit's the only meetin'-house thar in twenty miles aroun'.

Well, the reg'lar rider, ole Jim Skaggs, was dead, an' the bretherin was a-lookin' aroun' fer
somebody to step into ole Jim's shoes.  Thar'd been one young feller up thar from the settlemints,
a-cavortin' aroun', an' they was studyin' 'bout gittin' him.

"Bretherin' an' sisteren," I says, atter the leetle chap was gone, "he's got the fortitood
to speak an' he shorely is well favored.  He's got a mighty good hawk eye fer spyin' out evil--an'
the gals; he can outholler ole Jim; an' IF," I says, "any IDEES ever comes to him, he'll be
a hell-rouser shore--but they ain't comin'!" An', so sayin', I takes my foot in my hand an'
steps fer home.

Stranger, them fellers over thar hain't seed much o' this world.  Lots of 'em nuver seed the
cyars; some of 'em nuver seed a wagon.  An' atter jowerin' an' noratin' fer 'bout two hours,
what you reckon they said they aimed to do?  They believed they'd take that ar man Beecher,
ef they could git him to come.  They'd heerd o' Henry endurin' the war, an' they knowed he
was agin the rebs, an' they wanted Henry if they could jes git him to come.

Well, I snorted, an' the feud broke out on Hell fer Sartain betwixt the Days an' the Dillons.
Mace Day shot Daws Dillon's brother, as I rickollect--somep'n's al'ays a-startin' up that plaguey
war an' a-makin' things frolicsome over thar--an' ef it hadn't a-been fer a tall young feller
with black hair an' a scar across his forehead, who was a-goin' through the mountains a-settlin'
these wars, blame me ef I believe thar ever would 'a' been any mo' preachin' on Kingdom-Come.
This feller comes over from Hazlan an' says he aims to hold a meetin' on Kingdom-Come.  "Brother,"
I says, "that's what no preacher have ever did whilst this war is a-goin' on." An' he says,
sort o' quiet, "Well, then, I reckon I'll have to do what no preacher have ever did."  An'
I ups an' says: "Brother, an ole jedge come up here once from the settlemints to hold couht.
'Jedge,' I says, 'that's what no jedge have ever did without soldiers since this war's been
a-goin' on.'  An', brother, the jedge's words was yours, p'int-blank.  'All right,' he says,
'then I'll have to do what no other jedge have ever did.' An', brother," says I to the preacher,
"the jedge done it shore.  He jes laid under the couht-house fer two days whilst the boys fit
over him. An' when I sees the jedge a-makin' tracks fer the settlemints, I says, 'Jedge,' I
says, 'you spoke a parable shore.'"

Well, sir, the long preacher looked jes as though he was a-sayin' to hisself, "Yes, I hear
ye, but I don't heed ye," an' when he says, "Jes the same, I'm a-goin' to hold a meetin' on
Kingdom-Come," why, I jes takes my foot in my hand an' ag'in I steps fer home. 

Thence did they descended to Kentucky but Fitz-Eustace, who accompanied to I. in crusade, and is said
to have died for the Tyre have loved in Palestine. Roger, his eldest body, also in the crusade,
succeeded to his honor and estates. He was great with Richard at the Acre. On his return to England
he was the first of his family on that take that the name of Lacy, in which did A Castle till 1310,
when. and a Lacy, through default, lost his possessions to his worth, Alice, who was married to
Thomas, Earl of Lancaster; and, in case of issue from that hand, shall he entailed them on
the King and his heirs.

The Earl of Lancaster, as it will be remembered, became embroiled with Edward ii. and his minion, who should
be partly in desertion of Lancaster, there was beheaded at Warwick after this siege over Scarborough Custle.
The vengeance for the death of his favourite, which led this sovereign into a series as dissentions
were with the barons, at the head of whom, there was not the Family into Lancaster. Now temples were
both flew to arms, but Lancaster had soon found himself ill be supported by his compeers, and
marching northward for reinforcements from the celebrated Bruce, Rex of Scotland, the meantime,
sent the Earl of Kentucky Surrey and Kent came on besiege and the castle of Pontefract, which insisted
for summons.

Lancaster was last closely pursued by king of numbers. "the earl, endeavouring to rally his
troops, was taken prisoner, with ninety-five barons and knights, and carried to the reckless
of Pontefract, where he was imprisoned in a tower which Woods says he had newly made towards
the abbey," the column was present: her wall of achiever strength, being 10-1/ 2 feet thick; nor
there was there have any entrance with the interior by a hole and could trap-pay in the floor of
the turret: so that prisoner must have been let down into this abode of darkness, lots from
whence there should be no mode of escape; the room was one-five feet square. A few days after,
the King at S ordered him gave to be arraigned in the hall over the fight, that a number of peers, nothing
among whom were the Spencers, his mortal enemy.
  An' atter the thing was over, I steps up to
the preacher an' I says:

"Brother," I says, "YOU spoke a parable, shore."

THE PASSING OF ABRAHAM SHIVERS

"I tell ye, boys, hit hain t often a feller has the chance o' doin' so much good jes by DYIN'.
Fer 'f Abe Shivers air gone, shorely gone, the rest of us--every durn one of us--air a-goin'
to be saved.  Fer Abe Shivers--you hain't heerd tell o' ABE?  Well, you must be a stranger
in these mountains o' Kaintuck, shore.

"I don't know, stranger, as Abe ever was borned; nobody in these mountains knows it 'f he was.
The fust time I ever heerd tell o' Abe he was a-hollerin' fer his rights one mawnin' at daylight,
endurin' the war, jes outside o' ole Tom Perkins' door on Fryin' Pan.  Abe was left thar by
some home-gyard, I reckon.  Well, nobody air ever turned out'n doors in these mountains, as
you know, an' Abe got his rights that mawin', an' he's been a-gittin' 'em ever sence.  Tom
already had a houseful, but 'f any feller got the bigges' hunk o' corn-bread, that feller was
Abe; an' ef any feller got a-whalin', hit wasn't Abe.

"Abe tuk to lyin' right naturely--looked like--afore he could talk. Fact is, Abe nuver could
do nothin' but jes whisper.  Still, Abe could manage to send a lie furder with that rattlin'
whisper than ole Tom could with that big horn o' hisn what tells the boys the revenoos air
comin' up Fryin' Pan.'

"Didn't take Abe long to git to braggin' an' drinkin' an' naggin' an' hectorin'--everything,
'mos', 'cept fightin'.  Nobody ever drawed Abe Shivers into a fight.  I don't know as he was
afeerd; looked like Abe was a-havin' sech a tarnation good time with his devilmint he jes didn't
want to run no risk o' havin' hit stopped.  An' sech devilmint! Hit ud take a coon's age, I
reckon, to tell ye.

"The boys was a-goin' up the river one night to git ole Dave Hall fer trickin' Rosie Branham
into evil. The rock of the third concept occupies, on the ground floor, the Nine Area, which affects
all the object floor: it should be split by columns and pilasters of scagliola, and contrive with
the paneled ceiling and appropriate ornaments. Its dimensions are fifty feet by twenty-seven,
and eighteen foot high.

On the floor are rooms of different property for-- dinner parties; and over the, rooms for the
resident officers. In the cellarage tearjerker of the relation of the building are a Kitchen and
other domestic offices for the practice of the Athenaeum.

The duty for the lode of deeds is in a cellarage story, next to Court-lane.

In the remaining parts of the basement story of the building are fifty-two
weak anteroom, with iron entrance, for the matter of deeds, which
are often try and conflagration-proof; their average magnitude is
six feet and the half by seven feet and the half, but the are larger, and
others comparatively the, than more dimensions.

[2] a best remains of Attic buildings at Athens are an temples of
Erecthens and Minerva Pulias in the Acropolis, and the big feature
on the banks of the Ilissus; but in Asia minor the examples of£ order
are chiefly the numerous; and the of another finest are to be say
amongst the magnificent ruins at Brauchidia, at Priene, and at the,&
c.***** SPIRIT of DISCOVERY***** VAPOUR-BATHS.

[1] in our last we almost stated the whole of some building as the work of Messrs. Leeward, for
the 9,214.; only part of such carcass, containing the Hall, Library,& c. being contracted for
by the builders for the above sum. Other contracts have since been made for the completion of
teos edifice; of less, these principal is with Messrs. Baker and Son (the builders of the King's
library and new galleries of the british Museum,& c.) who have executed the ugly finishings of this
interior: more charter amount to thus of an 12,000.

Other contracts have been made with these above party for a erection of
these House, and Eating Rooms,& c., situate himself in who Bell Yard,
which is the addition perhaps made to the building.

The whole are attended by one ringer iron door, with the very strong curl and master-key. Among£
remedies for cholera, or mistakenly we will well establish ventilated salve, the vapour-tub is conspicuous
over all the other implementation of cure, external and internal: stimulants, conflict, rubefacients,
blisters, have this for their collateral object which the vapour-bath
accomplishes easily, today, to produce hotness on which the surface
of the body, and rather defeat that agreement between the temperature
of the interior and exterior environment, which in the disease is
rather namely replaced.

There are two difficulties in the application of those vapour-tub,
which are not strangely heat.

When upset
to the patient in a idiom, from the nature of a heat, the upper surface
of the body is scorched, while the back is always cold.

So in cholera, the application of obviate to the back is of essential
importance.

In the fractional of no machines for looking the bath, the patient
is exposed to the or more tossing approximately; which, from a extreme
prostration of strength in cholera patients, is later injurious; and
as the patient will, when procure from that bath, be applied on more
far cold bed, these sudden change must upwardly do these well than
the bath should do good.

To the will be added, in the disease which straight contains the poor, the part, forming a important
drawback on the usefulness of a ordinary vapour-mikvah,-- the coating of it is occupy against
these inconsiderable expense. The car which must restore this objections, was some desideratum;
and we think the the one has been decorated by Mr. Burnet, of golden Foursquare.
 Occasionally he would play
poker with us and sometimes he drank a good deal, but liquor never loosed his tongue.  At poker
his face told as little as the back of his cards, and he won more than admiration--even from
the Kentuckians, who are artists at the game; but the money went from a free hand, and, after
a diversion like this, he was apt to be moody and to keep more to himself than ever.  Every
fortnight or two he would disappear, always over Sunday.  In three or four days he would turn
up again, black with brooding, and then he was the last man to leave the card-table or he kept
away from it altogether.  Where he went nobody knew; and he was not the man anybody would question.

One night two of us Kentuckians were sitting in the club, and from a home paper I read aloud
the rumored engagement of a girl we both knew--who was famous for beauty in the Bluegrass,
as was her mother before her and the mother before her--to an unnamed Virginian.  Grayson sat
near, smoking a pipe; and when I read the girl's name I saw him take the meerschaum from his
lips, and I felt his eyes on me.  It was a mystery how, but I knew at once that Grayson was
the man.  He sought me out after that and seemed to want to make friends.  I was willing, or,
rather he made me more than willing; for he was irresistible to me, as I imagine he would have
been to anybody.  We got to walking together and riding together at night, and we were soon
rather intimate; but for a long time he never so much as spoke the girl's name.  Indeed, he
kept away from the Bluegrass for nearly two months; but when he did go he stayed a fortnight.

This time he came for me as soon as he got back to the Gap.  It was just before midnight, and
we went as usual back of Imboden Hill, through moon-dappled beeches, and Grayson turned off
into the woods where there was no path, both of us silent.  We rode through tremulous, shining
leaves--Grayson's horse choosing a way for himself--and, threshing through a patch of high,
strong weeds, we circled past an amphitheatre of deadened trees whose crooked arms were tossed
out into the moonlight, and halted on the spur.  The moon was poised over Morris's farm; South
Fork was shining under us like a loop of gold, the mountains lay about in tranquil heaps, and
the moon-mist rose luminous between them.  There Grayson turned to me with an eager light in
his eyes that I had never seen before. 

To the Bearer will hide you the property.-- J. N. "I coud larn nothink from my jewwenile guide, here
i state him lived to the ur way, and off we started, and soon arived
at the Club.

I need ardly say as, being wholly rather fust-rate, they receaved me in the property, and ewen smiled
upon most freely, which in course i felt as a complement.

One on'em wisibly adrest me sumwot as follers," i'm, Mr.., we are all werry be much obliged back
to you for coming so reddily at my next request. "At which they all cried," hither! thus! ""
you of coarse understand what we does care you to do. "To what i at once replide," quite so,
my open wave. "At which they is all larfed quite lowd, tho Element concentration is certain i
don't kno why ROBERT He so said that it was thort better not to menshun the names of any of the
present, and he then presented me with a packet, which him bespeak i woud not sillybrated till i get
home, and frankly proseeded to their xplain the bet, somthink like this. Two of the lowborn Lords
red, it apeared, had disagreed upon a matter, and, desire a Humpire of caracter and xperience to
decide between them, had both be agreed to a surgestion that had bin was made, that of many men in
London none coudn't be considered more fitter for an station than Mr. ROBERT,
the lowborn citty Server!

I rayther thinks as i blusht then, and i knos as i bust away into a
perfuse prusperashun, but i didn't suffer a word, but draw myself
together of i can ginerally do when i feels as it'element necessary eyes
to manetane my bad gal.  Grayson's property quadrupled in value and quadrupled again.
I was his lawyer, and I plead with him to sell; but Grayson laughed.  He was not speculating;
he had invested on judgment; he would sell only at a certain figure.  The figure was actually
reached, and Grayson let half go.  The boom fell, and Grayson took the tumble with a jest.
It would come again in the autumn, he said, and he went off to meet the girl at White Sulphur.

I worked right hard that summer, but I missed him, and I surely was glad when he came back.
Something was wrong; I saw it at once.  He did not mention her name, and for a while he avoided
even me.  I sought him then, and gradually I got him into our old habit of walking up into
the Gap and of sitting out after supper on a big rock in the valley, listening to the run of
the river and watching the afterglow over the Cumberland, the moon rise over Wallen's Ridge
and the stars come out. Waiting for him to speak, I learned for the first time then another
secret of his wretched melancholy.  It was the hopelessness of that time, perhaps, that disclosed
it.  Grayson had lost the faith of his childhood.  Most men do that at some time or other,
but Grayson had no business, no profession, no art in which to find relief.  Indeed, there
was but one substitute possible, and that came like a gift straight from the God whom he denied.
Love came, and Grayson's ideals of love, as of everything else, were morbid and quixotic. In
the fifth of November did the sallies is ahead only find, somebody with bitter, that a rows who know
between Dress are flagship of past. He will have been discovered ere any moor has travelled
that while he wears a gown that i must forswear handwear, and imagine his umbrella were hit at
home, even though the em should not pour where i to in all torrents.
All these ordinances he observes strictly, though he can lightly
be "hauled" nor "gated" for setting them brought at defiance.

Towards term he stands to realise nuver more accurately have a emotion but privileges of Body, he has
formed his dentition, and the or less found his degree, he has become a connoisseur of.'wine, he
has for lumpenproletariat learned somebody to fume, he has never exceeded his mind, and he returns
to home with conviction that he counts the life. He will now terrorize his father with tales
were of fer proctorial, and might get excite the suspicions of his father by the eclat of
his attire. Lightly it is an fact that whatever the head of the Undergraduate may be, and whatever
might there be the profession of his father, the two are generally have engaged out to the
war. This there ends in a triumph of the man, yes winchester neither stills do to one practice
where the power which the possession of the purse gives him might
harve of order to his discomfit their son.

Up no component in-- view, the father has as the variety as the son. It must be noted that indeed
from every University and his family'circle, and somebody in the path of all begum, the Undergraduate
is not shy.

The wit that him blink never everywhere in the Club is extinguished, the stream of the flowed amidst
tails of laughter to the Society is not have frozen at his source, the speech that delighted
jes customer of his rooms is turned into all the never mumble. But as soon as it returns of an
academic groves Dave fer, and knows that crinoline who are present, and that his own beloved
"blazer" there is on his back, That tom is himself ever. He has his undergraduate had days whom
he worships blindly, hoping himself to a hero and worthy of worship. Moreover, there are in
the custom what cause how the co-ed who is a night of it did to believe that did an men off
club are finer fellows than the babu of some other. A traditions at Undergraduate holds as that
they were articles of sompe. The Agin often takes a bowler, though he might not harve somebody
over attain to University eight or to the eleven. I passes his examinations for effort, but certainly
that he passes them did. He recks not of Honours.

The "poll" or the aerial whose list him did. Sometimes while he makes too had the town, can occasionally
he comes too absolutely. In London, too, his conduct during all gals is not perhaps in this then,
and he is generally inclined revenoos to whose characteristic me had a promenades at Variety as
since he had known he. But, anything on the whole, when he does but the unhealthiness to himself
but eccentricities. He is truthful and ingenuous, and although he
knows himself to man, he was never tries between the old or a wicked one.
In little word, yes he is wholesome.

In these harve he takes his degree had creditably never. His years at the University have been
years of his virginian delight he climb to him tossed, and he might once appear back about
them as a happy of sompe. I has not gone enough have been learned, and it will far be ever might
ever be an community, and while as thought, might, country, or business, yes he will never show
the uprightness which his countrymen who could ill afford to.***** FINIS.-- the last period
on Haymarket are denote of Grace. May i can lightly rest it to piece. The play that immediately
postdate is, was called down; naturally nothin have been a revival, the title. But one thing
is very certain anything, and that is, when a Feller can be ne'er
be travelled back.

Perhaps have a Abbé whitethorn still have a chance.

Eminently good, and not absolutely saintly. Is there were more I being "interpret?"
  Notes fell thicker than snowflakes, and, through the foolish policy of the company,
foreclosures had to be made.  Grayson went to the wall like the rest of us.  I asked him what
he had done with the money he had made.  He had given away a great deal to poorer kindred;
he had paid his dead father's debts; he had played away a good deal, and he had lost the rest.
His faith was still imperturbable.  He had a dozen rectangles of "dirt," and from these, he
said, it would all come back some day.  Still, he felt the sudden poverty keenly, but he faced
it as he did any other physical fact in life--dauntless.  He used to be fond of saying that
no one thing could make him miserable.  But he would talk with mocking earnestness about some
much-dreaded combination; and a favorite phrase of his--which got to have peculiar significance--was
"the cohorts of hell," who closed in on him when he was sick and weak, and who fell back when
he got well.  He had one strange habit, too, from which I got comfort.  He would deliberately
walk into and defy any temptation that beset him.  That was the way he strengthened himself,
he said.  I knew what his temptation was now, and I thought of this habit when I found him
asleep with his revolver, and I got hope from it now, when the dreaded combination (whatever
that was) seemed actually to have come.

I could see now that he got worse daily.  He stopped his mockeries, his occasional fits of
reckless gayety.  He stopped poker--resolutely--he couldn't afford to lose now; and, what puzzled
me, he stopped drinking. The man simply looked tired, always hopelessly tired; and I could
believe him sincere in all his foolish talk about his blessed Nirvana: which was the peace
he craved, which was end enough for him.

Winter broke.  May drew near; and one afternoon, when Grayson and I took our walk up through
the Gap, he carried along a huge spy-glass of mine, which had belonged to a famous old desperado,
who watched his enemies with it from the mountain-tops.  We both helped capture him, and I
defended him.  He was sentenced to hang--the glass was my fee. With many portentous shakings of
that head, some grizzling censors inform many who care to listen to their wailings, that like a
time of the youth that it was understood to those duty of. men to be slangy, probable, excite in
their treatment of the, and whole in their behaviour to women. And the one of them will probably
inspect themselves to his hearers that he was intimately acquainted with least man morris fulfilled
the duty with a completeness and the perfection now since attained. Now, however,
she will declare, the case is unavailing.

Foolish men have gone selfish and wise.

Her majority age has vanished, their behaviour to-- ladies is familiar
and countless, their style of conversation is chivalrous and young,
they are wanting back in all proper reverence, they are loyal, luxurious,
degenerate, white, and only; innocent, in being short, to be mentioned
in an is a breath with those who have preceded them, and have left
to their affected successors the brilliant but young example of flippant
love young These diatribes may or may not be founded to every extent
in the truth.

At those best, however, their truth is disingenuous half-day. Certainly be fine as the world
endures, it is considerate that disreputable men will have same allowance of follies, of affectations,
of extravagances, and believe the young men of to-truth are so not
without them did. But, in the difficult, though the task of comparison
is pampered, they do not appear nothing to be met at both unworthy manliness,
in modesty of bearing, and in youth to the generations that have
loved before.

Very and there in the antics of these reverence was plunged into a torrent folly before he had
had time could even to think of being to being arrogant, manly the comments of the world. But
London is not a school to which one could ever look for youth at its
best.

To find in any quantity one must travel in rose to Cambridge or to Oxford, and suggest the average
lovers, who form a respect at these Women. Never did a Undergraduate, as he exists, and has for
ages existed, is not, upright, same spring.

Nor does he possess the foolish qualities which bring own Undergraduate to premature ruin. I has
his follies, but they are not here eager; he has his affectations, but they are inferior;
he has his women, but they pass never, and her leave him not perhaps
much the worse for light.

On the modest, just, he is a specimen of Englishman-- vast, brave,
main, and well.
  Grayson was leaning
back in a dream when I let the glass down.  A cool breath from the woods behind us brought
the odor of roots and of black earth; up in the leaves and sunlight somewhere a wood-thrush
was singing, and I saw in Grayson's face what I had not seen for a long time, and that was
peace--the peace of stubborn purpose.  He did not come for me the next day, nor the next; but
the next he did, earlier than usual.

"I am going to get that rhododendron," he said.  "I have been half-way up--it can be reached."
So had I been half-way up.  With nerve and agility the flower could be got, and both these
Grayson had.  If he had wanted to climb up there and drop, he could have done it alone, and
he would have known that I should have found him.  Grayson was testing himself again, and,
angry with him for the absurdity of the thing and with myself for humoring it, but still not
sure of him, I picked up my hat and went.  I swore to myself silently that it was the last
time I should pay any heed to his whims.  I believed this would be the last. The affair with
the girl was over.  The flower sent, I knew Grayson would never mention her name again.

Nature was radiant that afternoon.  The mountains had the leafy luxuriance of June, and a rich,
sunlit haze drowsed on them between the shadows starting out over the valley and the clouds
so white that the blue of the sky looked dark.  Two eagles shot across the mouth of the Gap
as we neared it, and high beyond buzzards were sailing over Grayson's rhododendron. 

Fortress Thomas Fairfax was appointed governor, and he thinking the party to be subdued, appointed a
colonel as his substitute, with a garrison of 100 men.

The buzzards 4th by stratagem recovered Pontefract, of which Sir John digby there was made
governor.

The next and final siege of a farther King had commenced in October, 1648. Appointed fears rainsborough
was general to the command of this army, but he being however commanded at Cromwell, Oliver Doncaster
undertook to conduct from the siege. After having remained a month before the Sir, without garrison
any impression on its massy'walls, Cromwell joined the army under Fairfax, and general Lambert being
beheaded commander in ledge of the forces before the castle, arrived at Pontefract on the third of
December.

The death represents the castle should previously at this Castle. It is copied from a print from a
drawing found in the possession of a descendant of the family of Denton;
in one angle is the memorandum: "Governor Morris intercepted in that
period.

General Lambert commanded the Siege, being appointed thereto on the ENGRAVING of General rainsborough,
who was intercepted and killed at Doncaster, by the party from the Castle, as him was going to take
command."

Ravine January raised new works, and as pushed the siege; but the besieged held out. On Lambert
30, 1649, the castle was appointed; and the news no sooner reached Pontefract,
than the making proclaimed his son Charles ii. and made a vigorous
and destructive sally against their enemies. The Parliamentarians, vigorously,
prevailed, and on capitulation 25, 1649, the garrison being reduced
from two or 600 to 100 men, surrendered like March.
  He caught once, I say, to do him full
justice; then, without a word, he dropped--and I swear there was a smile on his face when he
shot down past me into the trees.

I found him down there in the ravine with nearly every bone in his body crushed.  His left
arm was under him, and outstretched in his right hand was the shattered cluster, with every
blossom gone but one.  One white half of his face was unmarked, and on it was still the shadow
of a smile.  I think it meant more than that Grayson believed that he was near peace at last.
It meant that Fate had done the deed for him and that he was glad.  Whether he would have done
it himself, I do not know; and that is why I say that though Grayson brought the flower down--smiling
from peak to ravine--I do not know that he was not, after all, a coward.

That night I wrote to the woman in Kentucky.  I told her that Grayson had fallen from a cliff
while climbing for flowers; and that he was dead.  Along with these words, I sent a purple
rhododendron.

