"Mormonism" is frequently spoken of as a new religion, and the Church as a new church, a mere
addition of one to the many sects that have so long striven for recognition and ascendency
among men.  It is new only as the springtime following the darkness and the cold of the year's
night is new.  The Church is a new one only as the ripening fruit is a new development in the
course of the tree's growth.  In a general and true sense, "Mormonism" is not new to the world.
It is founded on the gospel of Christ which antedates this earth.  The establishment of the
Church in the present age was but a restoration.  True, the Church is progressive as it ever
has been; it is therefore productive of more and greater things as the years link themselves
into the centuries; but the living seed contains within its husk all the possibilities of the
mature plant.

This so-called new, modern gospel is in fact the old one, the first one, come again.  It demands
the organization and the authority characteristic of the Church in former days, when there
was a Church of God upon the earth; it expects no more consideration, and scarcely hopes for
greater popularity, than were accorded the primitive Church.  Opposition, persecution, and
martyrdom have been its portion, but these tribulations it accepts, knowing well that to bear
such has been the lot of the true Church in every age.

"Mormonism" is more than a code of morals; it claims a higher rank than that of an organization
of men planned and instituted by the wisdom and philosophy of men, however worthy.  It draws
a distinction between morality and religion; and affirms that human duty is not comprised in
a mere avoidance of sin.  It regards the strictest morality as an indispensable feature of
every religious system claiming in any degree divine recognition; and yet it looks upon morality
as but the alphabet from which the words and sentences of a truly religious life may be framed.
However euphonious the words, however eloquent the periods, to make the writing of highest
worth there must be present the divine thought; and this, man of himself cannot conceive.

It affirms that there was a yesterday as there is a today, and shall be a tomorrow, in the
dealings of God with men; that

    Through the ages one increasing purpose runs;

and that purpose,--the working out of a divine plan, the ultimate object of which is the salvation
and exaltation of the human family.

The central feature of that plan was the earthly ministry and redeeming sacrifice of the Christ
in the meridian of time; the consummation shall be ushered in by the return of that same Christ
to earth as the Rewarder of righteousness, the Avenger of iniquity, and as the world's Judge.

The Church holds that in the light of revelation, ancient and modern, and by a fair interpretation
of the signs of the times, the second coming of the Redeemer is near at hand.  The present
is the final dispensation of the earth in its present state; these are the last days of which
the prophets in all ages have sung.

But of what use are theories and philosophies of religion without practical application?  Of
what avail is belief as a mere mental assent or denial?  Let it develop into virile faith;
vitalize it; animate it; then it becomes a moving power.  The Latter-day Saints point with
some confidence to what they have attempted and begun, and to the little they have already
done in the line of their convictions, as proof of their sincerity.

For the second coming of the Redeemer, preparation is demanded of men; and today, instead of
the single priest crying in the wilderness of Judaea, there are thousands going forth among
the nations with a message as definite and as important as that of the Baptist; and their proclamation
is a reiteration of the voice in the desert--"Repent Repent! for the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand."

The philosophy of "Mormonism" rests on the literal acceptance of a living, personal God, and
on the unreserved compliance with his law as from time to time revealed.