 

Completely lacked the time to visit us the artistic wonders of the Casa del Labrador, private gardens
and all that is admirable in that museum of vegetables, stone marbles, jumping water and flowers,
is called "Real Site" As the Angel saw
Freckles stand out, free, she reached her arms to him and pitched forward. A fearful oath burst
from the lips of Black Jack. To have saved his life, Freckles could not have avoided the glance
of triumph he gave Jack, when folding the Angel in his arms and stretching her on the mosses.

The Bird Woman cried out sharply for water as she ran to them. Someone sprang to bring that,
and another to break open the case for brandy. As McLean arose from binding Wessner, there
was a cry that Jack was escaping.

He was already far in the swamp, running for its densest part in leaping bounds. Every man
who could be spared plunged after him.

Other members of the gang arriving, were sent to follow the tracks of the wagons. The teamsters
had driven from the west entrance, and crossing the swale, had taken the same route the Bird
Woman and the Angel had before them. There had been ample time for the drivers to reach the
road; after that they could take any one of four directions. Traffic was heavy, and lumber
wagons were passing almost constantly, so the men turned back and joined the more exciting
hunt for a man. This is always in
Spain, especially in public places. I must say with pleasure that I have nothing but fond memories
of the numerous friends of coffee, theater, wagon, diligence, etc., which harvested in Spain,
friends of one hour, anonymous, they are lost forever a moment later, but leave good memories for
the kindness obsequious in their manners and goodwill that give the traveler any reports requested.

In
honor of my friend for a ride and to do justice to his eloquence,
I remember a circumstances.

Shortly after the departure of the train, when the conversation was walking through the passes
of gallantry concealed, the blonde lady like a queen who abdicates his crown on a whim, stated that he
hated marriage and would never marry, and that, not by hatred of men but .... (Oddly enough the daughter
of an absolutist!) For the love of freedom. The Catalan poet Heat beat the gap. When we descended
from the wagon in Aranjuez, the rebel was beautiful ... or seemed to become pregnant, but the
poet preacher had not given even one step beyond the way of compliments. The same day in my beard
preached the same sermon to others inveterate three or four times, with admirable gallantry
spirited.

The opulent Aranjuez valley formed by the lifting of some hills in the great plain who has the Tagus
hydrographic center, collects the waters of this river and the Jarama whose convergence is checked
at a short distance from the city of Aranjuez, which is 49 miles Madrid. Not without reason can
call the valley the garden of Madrid, it is distinguished by the abundance and excellence
of its fruits and vegetables. In Spain the classic land of strawberries and asparagus is Aranjuez.
Its industry is very small, and very little agriculture importance if we are to judge by the few
vineyards and olive groves a few tiny hills contour. Best of Aranjuez is its forests, gardens, palaces
and her offspring, all of which belongs to the "real estate".

The population is only a little over 5,000 inhabitants, a figure that usually double during Spring
by the invasion of those seeking the delights of the countryside. New town and court, Aranjuez is
distinguished by the ability of their homes, and runs very wide streets to string and cut at
right angles. Is between the city and the Tagus which extends the most splendid gardens and
parks of Real-site.

In a hotel-restorer we found four journalists and a young man in the world who had started
his career in diplomacy: gallant, spender, pompous and "tired of life" to scarcely twenty-two
.... It was interesting to see the frank cordiality which existed
between many writers gathered. Before you feel bad any more, you go look and see
if they didn't lose courage the minute they left Wessner and Black Jack, dump that timber and
run. I don't believe they ever had the grit to drive out with it in daylight. Go see if they
didn't figure on leaving the way we did the other morning, and you'll find the logs before
you reach the road. They never risked taking them into the open, when they got away and had
time to think. Of course they didn't!

"And, then, another thing. You haven't lost your wager! It never will be claimed, because you
made it with a stout, dark, red-faced man who drives a bay and a gray. He was right back of
you, Mr. McLean, when I came yesterday. He went deathly white and shook on his feet when he
saw those men probably would be caught. Some one of them was something to him, and you can
just spot him for one of the men at the bottom of your troubles, and urging those younger fellows
to steal from you. I suppose he'd promised to divide. You settle with him, and that business
will stop."

She turned to Freckles. "And you be the happiest man alive, because you have kept your trust.
Go look where I tell you and you'll find the logs. I can see just about where they are. When
they go up that steep little hill, into the next woods after the cornfield, why, they could
unloose the chains and the logs would roll from the wagons themselves. Now, you go look; and
Mr. McLean, you do feel that Freckles has been brave and faithful? You won't love him any the
less even if you don't find the logs."

The Angel's nerve gave way and she began to cry. Freckles could not endure it. He almost ran
from the room, with the tears in his eyes; but McLean took the Angel from the Bird Woman's
arms, and kissed her brave little face, stroked her hair, and petted her into quietness before
he left.

As they drove to the swamp, McLean so earnestly seconded all that the Angel had said that he
soon had the boy feeling much better.

"Freckles, your Angel has a spice of the devil in her, but she's superb! You needn't spend
any time questioning or bewailing anything she does. Just worship blindly, my boy. By heaven!
she's sense, courage, and beauty for half a dozen girls," said McLean.

"It's altogether right you are, sir," affirmed Freckles heartily. Presently he added, "There's
no question but the series is over now."

"Don't think it!" answered McLean. "The Bird Woman is working for success, and success along
any line is not won by being scared out. She will be back on the usual day, and ten to one,
the Angel will be with her. They are made of pretty stern stuff, and they don't scare worth
a cent. Before I left, I told the Bird Woman it would be safe; and it will. You may do your
usual walking, but those four guards are there to remain. They are under your orders absolutely.
They are prohibited from firing on any bird or molesting anything that you want to protect,
but there they remain, and this time it is useless for you to say one word. I have listened
to your pride too long. You are too precious to me, and that voice of yours is too precious
to the world to run any more risks."

"I am sorry to have anything spoil the series," said Freckles, "and I'd love them to be coming,
the Angel especial, but it can't be. You'll have to tell them so. You see, Jack would have
been ready to stake his life she meant what she said and did to him. When the teams pulled
out, Wessner seized me; then he and Jack went to quarreling over whether they should finish
me then or take me to the next tree they were for felling. Between them they were pulling me
around and hurting me bad. Wessner wanted to get at me right then, and Jack said he shouldn't
be touching me till the last tree was out and all the rest of them gone. I'm belaying Jack
really hated to see me done for in the beginning; and I think, too, he was afraid if Wessner
finished me then he'd lose his nerve and cut, and they couldn't be managing the felling without
him; anyway, they were hauling me round like I was already past all feeling, and they tied
me up again. To keep me courage up, I twits Wessner about having to tie me and needing another
man to help handle me. I told him what I'd do to him if I was free, and he grabs up me own
club and lays open me head with it. When the blood came streaming, it set Jack raving, and
he cursed and damned Wessner for a coward and a softy. Then Wessner turned on Jack and gives
it to him for letting the Angel make a fool of him. Tells him she was just playing with him,
and beyond all manner of doubt she'd gone after you, and there was nothing to do on account
of his foolishness but finish me, get out, and let the rest of the timber go, for likely you
was on the way right then. That drove Jack plum crazy.

"I don't think he was for having a doubt of the Angel before, but then he just raved. He grabbed
out his gun and turned on Wessner. Spang! It went out of his fist, and the order comes: 'Hands
up!' Wessner reached for kingdom come like he was expecting to grab hold and pull himself up.
Jack puts up what he has left. Then he leans over to me and tells me what he'll do to me if
he ever gets out of there alive. Then, just like a snake hissing, he spits out what he'll do
to her for playing him. He did get away, and with his strength, that wound in his hand won't
be bothering him long. He'll do to me just what he said, and when he hears it really was she
that went after you, why, he'll keep his oath about her.

"He's lived in the swamp all his life, sir, and everybody says it's always been the home of
cutthroats, outlaws, and runaways. He knows its most secret places as none of the others. He's
alive. He's in there now, sir. Some way he'll keep alive. If you'd seen his face, all scarlet
with passion, twisted with pain, and black with hate, and heard him swearing that oath, you'd
know it was a sure thing. I ain't done with him yet, and I've brought this awful thing on her." I'm talking about huge vines, the parasitic luxury and lots of trees and shrubs
The New World, which I had greeted in the days of youth, wandering hunter, between secular forests
of my sweet home. Sometimes it seemed to me that these beings transplant Colombia shook their festoons
floating, not Spanish breezes blow, but under pressure commotion of a secret, by watching a fellow!
Perhaps they would say, in their language mysterious rumors that the man does not understand,
"I recognize ....»

The more vigorous contrast awaited me in the bullring. A magnificent scene of nature, full of life,
majesty, mystery and memories of love, was going to happen a terrible scene noise, frenetic passion
and death .... Instead of the poetry of God and the contemplation delightful, quirky poetry
of heroism wild! It was half past four in the afternoon, and as the bullring, situated towards the
southern end of Aranjuez, was packed with spectators. All classes had gathered there, but in
layers or from floor to floor, according to pecuniary resources. The seats, the boxes and lunettes
in spite of their discomfort and gross structure, cost in general, in the arenas, respectively
the same in the theaters. It's amazing the interest that the show wakes up, giving rise to
the advantageous speculation made by resellers of tickets. Your gain is often fifty percent
and sometimes much higher, when the first Matador is a sword or of the great art notables, princes
of the heroic butchery.

Not making a complete description of the bullfight. No traveler and writer eminent customs boasted
that no matter your skill description: at same if I try to imitate them, or my description would
be pale and mediocre, or to interest much would that be plagiarism. So, I confine myself to
the comments referred to the most salient features of that vigorous
and original drama.

In Colombia, thank God, the bulls are not a permanent institution. Each year, for the feast of
the saint-patron, or the anniversary of independence, there are public rejoicing, essentially
democratic, lasting from three to eight days. During that time, none in the city ​​and the people
have other occupation than that of fun, except those who speculate the fun, having fun and doing
business at the same time. There, the holidays are a set curious bullfights, dances, field trips,
drama, raffles and games patriotic songs, banquets and picnics, concerts, exhibitions, rants,
etc.., etc. But it's all popular and the public, everything is free, passenger, and like all original
passenger, passionate and feverish. Spend the holidays, it starts the last stake of the barriers
and balconies makeshift bullring, and there is no trace of the noisy and varied scene. Until
next year, at the same time, it becomes to think about it. In addition, it has not or horse-Torunos
no casualties in the square, and it is rare that dead men tell or seriously injured, in spite
of the disorder which presides over the runs and the wonders of brandy,
liquor chicha and other streams running to the thousands of throats.

In Spain, the bulls are a chronic drama.

When the Bird Woman proposed to look for other subjects close about the line, Freckles went
so far as to tell her that Jack had made fearful threats against the Angel. He implored her
to take the Angel home and keep her under unceasing guard until Jack was located. He wanted
to tell her all about it, but he knew how dear the Angel was to her, and he dreaded to burden
her with his fears when they might prove groundless. He allowed her to go, but afterward blamed
himself severely for having done so.

CHAPTER XIV

Wherein Freckles Nurses a Heartache and Black Jack Drops Out

"McLean," said Mrs. Duncan, as the Boss paused to greet her in passing the cabin, "do you know
that Freckles hasna been in bed the past five nights and all he's eaten in that many days ye
could pack into a pint cup?"

"Why, what does the boy mean?" demanded McLean. "There's no necessity for him being on guard,
with the watch I've set on the line. I had no idea he was staying down there."

"He's no there," said Mrs. Duncan. "He goes somewhere else. He leaves on his wheel juist after
we're abed and rides in close cock-crow or a little earlier, and he's looking like death and
nothing short of it."

"But where does he go?" asked McLean in astonishment.

"I'm no given to bearing tales out of school," said Sarah Duncan, "but in this case I'd tell
ye if I could. What the trouble is I dinna ken. If it is no' stopped, he's in for dreadful
sickness, and I thought ye could find out and help him. He's in sair trouble; that's all I know."

McLean sat brooding as he stroked Nellie's neck.

At last he said: "I suspect I understand. At any rate, I think I can find out. Thank you for
telling me."

"Ye'll no need telling, once ye clap your eyes on him," prophesied Mrs. Duncan. "His face is
all a glist'ny yellow, and he's peaked as a starving caged bird."

McLean rode to the Limberlost, and stopping in the shade, sat waiting for Freckles, whose hour
for passing the foot of the lease had come.

Along the north line came Freckles, fairly staggering. When he turned east and reached Sleepy
Snake Creek, sliding through the swale as the long black snake for which it was named, he sat
on the bridge and closed his burning eyes, but they would not remain shut. As if pulled by
wires, the heavy lids flew open, while the outraged nerves and muscles of his body danced,
twitched, and tingled.

He bent forward and idly watched the limpid little stream flowing beneath his feet. Stretching
into the swale, it came creeping between an impenetrable wall of magnificent wild flowers,
vines, and ferns. Milkweed, goldenrod, ironwort, fringed gentians, cardinal-flowers, and turtle-head
stood on the very edge of the creek, and every flower of them had a double in the water. Wild
clematis crowned with snow the heads of trees scattered here and there on the bank.

From afar the creek appeared to be murky, dirty water. Really it was clear and sparkling. The
tinge of blackness was gained from its bed of muck showing through the transparent current.
He could see small and wonderfully marked fish. What became of them when the creek spread into
the swamp? For one thing, they would make mighty fine eating for the family of that self-satisfied
old blue heron.

Freckles sat so quietly that soon the brim of his hat was covered with snake-feeders, rasping
their crisp wings and singing while they rested. Some of them settled on the club, and one
on his shoulder. He was so motionless; feathers, fur, and gauze were so accustomed to him,
that all through the swale they continued their daily life and forgot he was there.

The heron family were wading the mouth of the creek. Freckles idly wondered whether the nerve-racking
rasps they occasionally emitted indicated domestic felicity or a raging quarrel. He could not
decide. A sheitpoke, with flaring crest, went stalking across a bare space close to the creek's
mouth. A stately brown bittern waded into the clear-flowing water, lifting his feet high at
every step, and setting them down carefully, as if he dreaded wetting them, and with slightly
parted beak, stood eagerly watching around him for worms. Behind him were some mighty trees
of the swamp above, and below the bank glowed a solid wall of goldenrod.

No wonder the ancients had chosen yellow as the color to represent victory, for the fierce,
conquering hue of the sun was in it. They had done well, too, in selecting purple as the emblem
of royalty. It was a dignified, compelling color, while in its warm tone there was a hint of blood.

It was the Limberlost's hour to proclaim her sovereignty and triumph. Everywhere she flaunted
her yellow banner and trailed the purple of her mantle, that was paler in the thistle-heads,
took on strength in the first opening asters, and glowed and burned in the ironwort.

He gazed into her damp, mossy recesses where high-piled riven trees decayed under coats of
living green, where dainty vines swayed and clambered, and here and there a yellow leaf, fluttering
down, presaged the coming of winter. His love of the swamp laid hold of him and shook him with
its force.

Compellingly beautiful was the Limberlost, but cruel withal; for inside bleached the uncoffined
bones of her victims, while she had missed cradling him, oh! so narrowly.

He shifted restlessly; the movement sent the snake-feeders skimming. The hum of life swelled
and roared in his strained ears. Small turtles, that had climbed on a log to sun, splashed
clumsily into the water. Somewhere in the timber of the bridge a bloodthirsty little frog cried
sharply. "KEEL'IM! KEEL'IM!"

Freckles muttered: "It's worse than that Black Jack swore to do to me, little fellow."

A muskrat waddled down the bank and swam for the swamp, its pointed nose riffling the water
into a shining trail in its wake.

Then, below the turtle-log, a dripping silver-gray head, with shining eyes, was cautiously
lifted, and Freckles' hand slid to his revolver. Higher and higher came the head, a long, heavy,
furcoated body arose, now half, now three-fourths from the water. Freckles looked at his shaking
hand and doubted, but he gathered his forces, the shot rang, and the otter lay quiet. He hurried
down and tried to lift it. He scarcely could muster strength to carry it to the bridge. The
consciousness that he really could go no farther with it made Freckles realize the fact that
he was close the limit of human endurance. He could bear it little, if any, longer. They simultaneously call attention drama
actors and spectators. Among the former, the Sword is the first suitor, the second sword its
protagonist, the bull is the big beard terrible, the choppers are auxiliary frame, and capeadores
and helpers of all kinds are the phalanx lucida of extras. Frankly, the bull, fighting back a hundred
enemies, I found the character more beautiful, more worthy of admiration and interest. His
enemies seemed more daring but more stupid each bull. All of them, which best distinguished
by the originality, the luxury or the picturesque dress. But their roles are very uneven. The sword
represents the sublime of barbarism, the Picador, the perfection of bestiality, the simple or
Capeador torero, the simple union of daring, agility and grace.

The capeador, very elegantly dressed (nice style) is reduced to cause the bull, get sets, driving
to the scene of a decisive battle and have fun. Is the courtier's sword, assistant, his lackey
pedestrian. The chopper, a knight on a horse skeleton rather than a horse, his legs aforradas
on tablets of iron and pants with very strong and provided with a long spike, is presented in
front of the bull, looking for, harass, bites without pity or fear, and looks like a robot
the tremendous blow of the angry beast. As the rubble horse that walks is blindfolded and can
not defend themselves, for lack of strength and agility, when the barb of the chopper does
not stand to contain the thrust of the bull, the devoted itself on the wretched horse, he sharpened
up sinking the chest and abdomen, apart and throws him a few paces away, leaving the chopper
lying on the ground, no defense under the bloody and confused mass of horse and bull. This,
more generous man, retires and find another enemy, seldom preys on a victim. In addition, falling
a picador all bullfighters come to save him, and dropped like a statue is raised because his
legs, splints as they are, have no movement. Shake his point, and if the horse do not dead right
for the chopper mount again.

When that set was repeated three or four or more occasions, the show is so obnoxious as unclean.
A few men, blood stained and dusty, they shake like hell, with the tenacity of petulance on walking
corpses that drag or shake in a movement of the intestines agony all the horns of the beast
has broken and made forth by wide wounds .... I saw horses that were martyred in that situation
for an hour!

There comes the time of slaughter the bull, and the trumpets announce the funeral with a touch
passed through the nerves and blood a deep chill of terror and compassion. The Sword king
of the scene, but does not come into action to kill the bull. Provides the lot was a character choose
a site, groping his gun, picks up his plush crimson cloak, his cap thrown to the wind, squeeze
the bun hairpiece and looks with serenity to the beast, conducted with skill by courtiers come
to accept the mortal combat .... The bright luxury and uniqueness of dress, the pride of his
terrible ride and expertise of its functions, the most dangerous make the sword, in the eyes of
the Spanish, a hero, a demigod of death, a kind bloody artist, if I may use the expression heretical
violence! ... All her eyes covered, I eat and I follow their movements with feverish agitation.

The
bull comes along and, as if sensing the imminent danger, he refuses
at first the formal attack.

Perhaps then guess that if it does not die heroically, or if not kill, awaits the pain infamous
of the cheek. Accepts the sword, measuring his enemy with a look of fire, he apostrophe with
a sparkling puff, standing a moment the formidable neck, dig sand with utmost despair and anger,
and attacks like a hurricane .... The sword defends himself three or four sets, almost motionless,
and the beast, and desiring to put an end to their struggle and martyrdom returns to the side
of his antagonist, lowers his head, comes in a flash of steel broke out a huge cry of thousands of
mouths, they sound the trumpets, and is, to dissipate dust, the great dark mass of a body like
a boulder at the foot of a man who takes his sword from the heart and loins of the victim, and
clean quietly against pounding the rough skin of debris ....
 She wore herself past bearing to save me from such an easy thing as death! Now,
here's me, a man, a big, strong man, and letting her live under that fearful oath, so worse
than any death 'twould be for her, and lifting not a finger to save her. I cannot hear it,
sir. It's killing me by inches! Black Jack's hand may not have been hurt so bad. Any hour he
may be creeping up behind her! Any minute the awful revenge he swore to be taking may in some
way fall on her, and I haven't even warned her father. I can't stay here doing nothing another
hour. The five nights gone I've watched under her windows, but there's the whole of the day.
She's her own horse and little cart, and's free to be driving through the town and country
as she pleases. If any evil comes to her through Black Jack, it comes from her angel-like goodness
to me. Somewhere he's hiding! Somewhere he is waiting his chance! Somewhere he is reaching
out for her! I tell you I cannot, I dare not be bearing it longer!"

"Freckles, be quiet!" said McLean, his eyes humid and his voice quivering with the pity of
it all. "Believe me, I did not understand. I know the Angel's father well. I will go to him
at once. I have transacted business with him for the past three years. I will make him see!
I am only beginning to realize your agony, and the real danger there is for the Angel. Believe
me, I will see that she is fully protected every hour of the day and night until Jack is located
and disposed of. And I promise you further, that if I fail to move her father or make him understand
the danger, I will maintain a guard over her until Jack is caught. Now will you go bathe, drink
some milk, go to bed, and sleep for hours, and then be my brave, bright old boy again?"

"Yis," said Freckles simply.

But McLean could see the flesh was twitching on the lad's bones.

"What was it the guard brought there?" McLean asked in an effort to distract Freckles' thoughts.

"Oh!" Freckles said, glancing where the Boss pointed, "I forgot it! 'Tis an otter, and fine
past believing, for this warm weather. I shot it at the creek this morning. 'Twas a good shot,
considering. I expected to miss."

Freckles picked up the animal and started toward McLean with it, but Nellie pricked up her
dainty little ears, danced into the swale, and snorted with fright. Freckles dropped the otter
and ran to her head.

"For pity's sake, get her on the trail, sir," he begged. "She's just about where the old king
rattler crosses to go into the swamp--the old buster Duncan and I have been telling you of.
I haven't a doubt but it was the one Mother Duncan met. 'Twas down the trail there, just a
little farther on, that I found her, and it's sure to be close yet."

McLean slid from Nellie's back, led her into the trail farther down the line, and tied her
to a bush. Then he went to examine the otter. It was a rare, big specimen, with exquisitely
fine, long, silky hair.

"What do you want to do with it, Freckles?" asked McLean, as he stroked the soft fur lingeringly.
"Do you know that it is very valuable?"

"I was for almost praying so, sir," said Freckles. "As I saw it coming up the bank I thought
this: Once somewhere in a book there was a picture of a young girl, and she was just a breath
like the beautifulness of the Angel. Her hands were in a muff as big as her body, and I thought
it was so pretty. I think she was some queen, or the like. Do you suppose I could have this
skin tanned and made into such a muff as that?--an enormous big one, sir?"

"Of course you can," said McLean. "That's a fine idea and it's easy enough. We must box and
express the otter, cold storage, by the first train. You stand guard a minute and I'll tell
Hall to carry it to the cabin. I'll put Nellie to Duncan's rig, and we'll drive to town and
call on the Angel's father. Then we'll start the otter while it is fresh, and I'll write your
instructions later. It would be a mighty fine thing for you to give to the Angel as a little
reminder of the Limberlost before it is despoiled, and as a souvenir of her trip for you."

Freckles lifted a face with a glow of happy color creeping into it and eyes lighting with a
former brightness. Throwing his arms around McLean, he cried: "Oh, how I love you! Oh, I wish
I could make you know how I love you!"

McLean strained him to his breast.

"God bless you, Freckles," he said. "I do know! We're going to have some good old times out
of this world together, and we can't begin too soon. Would you rather sleep first, or have
a bite of lunch, take the drive with me, and then rest? I don't know but sleep will come sooner
and deeper to take the ride and have your mind set at ease before you lie down. Suppose you go."

"Suppose I do," said Freckles, with a glimmer of the old light in his eyes and newly found
strength to shoulder the otter. Together they turned into the trail.

McLean noticed and spoke of the big black chickens.

"They've been hanging round out there for several days past," said Freckles. "I'll tell you
what I think it means. I think the old rattler has killed something too big for him to swallow,
and he's keeping guard and won't let me chickens have it. I'm just sure, from the way the birds
have acted out there all summer, that it is the rattler's den. You watch them now. See the
way they dip and then rise, frightened like!"

Suddenly McLean turned toward him with blanching face

"Freckles!" he cried.

"My God, sir!" shuddered Freckles.

He dropped the otter, caught up his club, and plunged into the swale. Reaching for his revolver,
McLean followed. The chickens circled higher at their coming, and the big snake lifted his
head and rattled angrily. It sank in sinuous coils at the report of McLean's revolver, and
together he and Freckles stood beside Black Jack. This is where preserved circuses
and where most splendid flock in search of applause, money and gallant adventures, the most
famous swords, picks the most handsome and the most agile capeadores.

Tocoma fortunately just a window that dominated the bullpen, which is the "Chapel" of those bandits
on the plains and the rugged hills of thick horns, powerful neck and texture iron, condemned
to succumb to an unequal battle and terrible. No more electric the vast mob crowded into the
circular arena and the balconies of the square, the voice acute and the trumpets of war for
that order and announced the departure of a bull to the bloody liza. A commotion stirred simultaneously
to all the spectators and a rumor that reveals anxiety and curiosity
at the same time, circulating in the area of ​​that great slaughter.

If the bull jumps out huge, partly as a beam on the objects to be present, unanimous applause
welcome him and encourage, its popularity is immense and all viewers are of his party. What's
so strange, if so many animals in the world applauded and popular? If the bull, by contrast,
is cowardly, or surprised to get out, the boos popular overwhelms him, the opinion is condemned
and everyone insults and apostrophe with the most outrageous epithets, sometimes lends itself
to politics. Thus, the bull is a passionate character into a frenzy, and gives rise to a set
of epigrams that frequently your application to the remarkable events of the situation. The first
time you decide, then, the reputation and the fate of the bull, not
worth it to rehabilitate their actions in the opinion of value, if
you start to have a surprise or fear.

Such is the fate of men too.

If the bull out of law is respected, is treated with dignity, because
it does not appeal to insult chief of the flags. Is attacked, it weathers
in order, and was killed on singular combat at the hands of the first
sword like a gentleman of heroic times. When he found there were
two companies trying to lease, he wanted to stand in with the one from which he could realize
the most. Even then he had trees marked that he was trying to dispose of. I think his sole
intention in forcing me to discharge him from my gang was to come here and try to steal timber.
We had no idea, when we took the lease, what a gold mine it was."

"That's exactly what Wessner said that first day," said Freckles eagerly. "That 'twas a 'gold
mine'! He said he didn't know where the marked trees were, but he knew a man who did, and if
I would hold off and let them get the marked ones, there were a dozen they could get out in
a few days."

"Freckles!" cried McLean. "You don't mean a dozen!"

"That's what he said, sir--a dozen. He said they couldn't tell how the grain of all of them
would work up, of course, but they were all worth taking out, and five or six were real gold
mines. This makes three they've tried, so there must be nine more marked, and several of them
for being just fine."

"Well, I wish I knew which they are," said McLean, "so I could get them out first."

"I have been thinking," said Freckles. Whether the Spanish people have been maligned in
that of political intolerance, whether a constitutional life has improved greatly; is, in
short, that journalists everywhere constitute a separate race, the truth is that in Spain between
the writers have found a unique warmth in personal relationships. In the cafes, theaters, etc..,
Is fellowship to men (especially young people) that make war more crude through the press and
all the burning fields policy.
 Jack was so good at it he could tell
some of them by the bark, but all he wanted to take that we've found so far have just had a
deep chip cut out, rather low down, and where the bushes were thick over it. I believe I could
be finding some of them."

"Good head!" said McLean. "We will do that. You may begin as soon as you are rested. And about
things you come across in the swamp, Freckles--the most trifling little thing that you think
the Bird Woman would want, take your wheel and go after her at any time. I'll leave two men
on the line, so that you will have one on either side, and you can come and go as you please.
Have you stopped to think of all we owe her, my boy?"

