SOCIETY FOR PURE ENGLISH

TRACT No. XI

THREE ARTICLES ON METAPHOR

By E.B., H.W. Fowler & A. Clutton-Brock

MISCELLANEOUS NOTES & CORRESPONDENCE

At the Clarendon Press

1922

THREE ARTICLES ON METAPHOR

I. NOTES ON THE FUNCTION OF METAPHOR

The business of the writer is to arouse in the mind of his reader the fullest possible consciousness
of the ideas or emotion that he is expressing.

To this end he suggests a comparison between it and something else which is similar to it in
respect of those qualities to which he desires to draw attention. The reader's mind at once
gets to work unconsciously on this comparison, rejecting the unlike qualities and recognizing
with an enhanced and satisfied consciousness the like ones. The functions of simile and metaphor
are the same in this respect.

Both simile and metaphor are best when not too close to the idea they express, that is, when
they have not many qualities in common with it which are not cogent to the aspect under consideration.

The test of a well-used metaphor is that it should completely fulfil this function: there should
be no by-products of imagery which distract from the poet's aim, and vitiate and weaken the
desired consciousness.

A simile, in general, need not be so close as a metaphor, because the point of resemblance
is indicated, whereas in a metaphor this is left to the reader to discover.

When a simile or metaphor is from the material to the immaterial, or vice versa, the analogy
should be more complete than when it is between two things on the same plane: when they are
on different planes there is less dullness (that is, less failure to produce consciousness),
and the greater mental effort required of the reader warrants some assistance.

The degree of effort required in applying any given metaphor should be in relation to the degree
of emotion proper to the passage in which it is used. Only those metaphors which require little
or no mental exertion should be used in very emotional passages, or the emotional effect will
be much weakened: a far-fetched, abstruse metaphor or simile implies that the writer is at
leisure from his emotion, and suggests this attitude in the reader.--[E.B.]

II. SOME NOTES ON METAPHOR IN JOURNALISM

Live and dead metaphor; some pitfalls; self-consciousness and mixed metaphor.

1. Live and Dead Metaphor.

In all discussion of metaphor it must be borne in mind that some metaphors are living, i.e.
are offered and accepted with a consciousness of their nature as substitutes for their literal
equivalents, while others are dead, i.e. have been so often used that speaker and hearer have
ceased to be aware that the words are not literal: but the line of distinction between the
live and the dead is a shifting one, the dead being sometimes liable, under the stimulus of
an affinity or a repulsion, to galvanic stirrings indistinguishable from life. Thus, in The
men were sifting meal we have a literal use of sift; in Satan hath desired to have you, that
he may sift you as wheat, 'sift' is a live metaphor; in the sifting of evidence, the metaphor
is so familiar that it is about equal chances whether sifting or examination will be used,
and a sieve is not present to the thought--unless, indeed, some one conjures it up by saying
All the evidence must first be sifted with acid tests, or with the microscope; under such a
stimulus our metaphor turns out to have been not dead, but dormant. The other word, examine,
will do well enough as an example of the real stone-dead metaphor; the Latin examino, being
from examen the tongue of a balance, meant originally to weigh; but, though weighing is not
done with acid tests or microscopes any more than sifting, examine gives no convulsive twitchings,
like sift, at finding itself in their company; examine, then, is dead metaphor, and sift only
half dead, or three-quarters.

2. Some pitfalls. A, Unsustained Metaphor; B, Overdone Metaphor; C, Spoilt Metaphor; D, Battles
of the Dead; E, Mixed Metaphor.

A. Unsustained Metaphor

He was still in the middle of those twenty years of neglect which only began to lift in 1868.
The plunge into metaphor at lift, which presupposes a mist, is too sudden after the literal
twenty years of neglect; years, even gloomy years, do not lift.

The means of education at the disposal of the Protestants and Presbyterians of the North were
stunted and sterilized. 'The means at disposal' names something too little vegetable or animal
to consort with the metaphorical verbs. Education (personified) may be stunted, but means may not.

The measure of Mr. Asquith's shame does not consist in the mere fact that he has announced
his intention to ... Metaphorical measuring, like literal, requires a more accommodating instrument
than a stubborn fact. 

Chatting with Captain B, i complimented him on his youthful physique. Captain B---- has held the post
of harbour master at King Us's Sound, Albany, for over thirty years, and, though over seventy
years of age, he seems equal status of many years to service is yet. Certainly a stranger gets the
impression of the country when he takes Captain as a sample australian, and one wonders, if one sees
this active old salt run up the gangway with the agility of a youth of seventeen, whether
all Australians who are equally fine. The author does not strain the muscles of coincidence's
arm to bring them into relation. Then the long arm of coincidence rolled up its sleeves and
set to work with a rapidity and vigour which defy description.

Modern overdoing, apart from burlesque, is chiefly accidental, and results not from too much
care, but from too little. The most irreconcilable of Irish landlords are beginning to recognize
that we are on the eve of the dawn of a new day in Ireland. 'On the eve of' is a dead metaphor
for 'about to experience', and to complete it with 'the dawn of a day' is as bad as to say,
It cost one pound sterling, ten instead of one pound ten.

C. Spoilt Metaphor

The essential merit of real or live metaphor being to add vividness to what is being conveyed,
it need hardly be said that accuracy of detail is even more necessary in metaphorical than
in literal expressions; the habit of metaphor, however, and the habit of accuracy do not always
go together.

Yet Taurès was the Samson who upheld the pillars of the Bloc.

Yet what more distinguished names does the Anglican Church of the last reign boast than those
of F.D. Maurice, Kingsley, Stanley, Robertson of Brighton, and even, if we will draw our net
a little wider, the great Arnold?

He was the very essence of cunning, the incarnation of a book-thief.

Samson's way with pillars was not to uphold them; we draw nets closer, but cast them wider;
and what is the incarnation of a thief? too, too solid flesh indeed!

D. Battles of Dead Metaphors

In The Covenanters took up arms there is no metaphor; in The Covenanters flew to arms there
is one only--flew to for quickly took up; in She flew to arms in defence of her darling there
are two, the arms being now metaphorical as well as the flying; moreover, the two metaphors
are separate ones; but, being dead, and also not inconsistent with each other, they lie together
quietly enough. But dead metaphors will not lie quietly together if there was repugnance between
them in life; e'en in their ashes live their wonted fires, and they get up and fight.

It is impossible to crush the Government's aim to restore the means of living and working freely.
'Crush' for baffle, 'aim' for purpose, are both dead metaphors so long as they are kept apart,
but the juxtaposition forces on us the thought that you cannot crush an aim.

National military training is the bedrock on which alone we can hope to carry through the great
struggles which the future may have in store for us. 'Bedrock' and 'carry through' are both
moribund or dormant, but not stone-dead.

The vogue of the motor-car seems destined to help forward the provision of good road-communication,
a feature which is sadly in arrear. Good road-communication may be a feature, and it may be
in arrear, and yet a feature cannot be in arrear; things that are equal to the same thing may
be equal to each other in geometry, but language is not geometry.

They are cyphers living under the shadow of a great man.

He stood, his feet glued to the spot, his eyes riveted on the heavens.

The Geddes report is to be emasculated a little in the Cabinet, and then thrown at the heads
of the Electorate.

Viscount Grey's suggestion may, in spite of everything, prove the nucleus of solution.

The superior stamina of the Oxonian told in no half-hearted measure. [Even careful writers
are sometimes unaware of the comical effect of some chance juxtaposition of words and ideas,
whereby a dormant metaphor is set on its legs. Thus Leslie Stephen in his life of Swift wrote:
Sir William Temple, though he seems to have been vigorous and in spite of gout a brisk walker,
was approaching his grave. And again when he was triumphantly recording the progress of agnosticism
he has: Even the high-churchmen have thrown the Flood overboard. [ED.]]

E. Mixed Metaphors

For the examples given in D, tasteless word-selection is a fitter description than mixed metaphor,
since each of the words that conflict with others is not intended, as a metaphor at all. 'Mixed
metaphor' is more appropriate when one or both of the terms can only be consciously metaphorical.
Little warning is needed against it; it is so conspicuous as seldom to get into speech or print
undetected.

This is not the time to throw up the sponge, when the enemy, already weakened and divided,
are on the run to a new defensive position. A mixture of prize-ring and battlefield.

In the following extract from a speech it is difficult to be sure how many times metaphors
are mixed; readers versed in the mysteries of oscillation may be able to decide:

     No society, no community, can place its house in such a
     condition that it is always on a rock, oscillating between
     solvency and insolvency. What I have to do is to see that
     our house is built upon a solid foundation, never allowing
     the possibility of the Society's life-blood being sapped.
     Just in proportion as you are careful in looking after the
     condition of your income, just in proportion as you deal
     with them carefully, will the solidarity of the Society's
     financial condition remain intact. Immediately you begin to
     play fast and loose with your income the first blow at your
     financial stability will have been struck.

A real poet losing himself in the meshes of a foolish obsession.

Johnson tore the hearts out of books ruthlessly in order to extract the honey out of them expeditiously.
Are we to let the pendulum swing back to the old rut? Those little houses at the top of the
street, dwarfed by the grandiloquence on the opposite side, are too small, too.

3. Self-consciousness and Mixed Metaphor.

The gentlemen of the Press regularly devote a small percentage of their time to accusing each
other of mixing metaphors or announcing that they are themselves about to do so (What a mixture
of metaphors! If we may mix our metaphors. To change the metaphor), the offence apparently
being not to mix them, but to be unaware that you have done it. The odd thing is that, whether
he is on the offensive or the defensive, the writer who ventures to talk of mixing metaphors
often shows that he does not know what mixed metaphor is. Two typical examples of the offensive
follow:

The Scotsman says: 'The crowded benches of the Ministerialists contain the germs of disintegration.
A more ill-assorted majority could hardly be conceived, and presently the Opposition must realize
of what small account is the manoeuvring of the Free-Fooders or of any other section of the
party. If the sling be only properly handled, the new Parliamentary Goliath will be overthrown
easily enough. The stone for the sling must, however, be found on the Ministerial side of the
House, and not on the Opposition side.' Apparently the stone for the sling will be a germ.
But doubtless mixed feelings lead to mixed metaphors. In this passage, we are well rid of the
germs before we hear of the sling, and the mixture of metaphors is quite imaginary. 

Something may occur to develop the delivery-- of the speech, and Hansard has not a line'quotations of it.
A thing happened into the "Congressional Record" a year or two ago. The speech was published
as having been uttered by two very different Members.

'When the Chairman of Committees--a politician of their own hue--allowed Mr. Maddison to move
his amendment in favour of secular education, a decision which was not quite in accordance
with precedent, the floodgates of sectarian controversy were opened, and the apple of discord--the
endowment of the gospel of Cowper-Temple--was thrown into the midst of the House of Commons.'
What a mixture of metaphor! One pictures this gospel-apple battling with the stream released
by the opened floodgates. In point of fact, the floodgates and the apple are successive metaphors,
unmixed; the mixing of them is done by the critic himself, not by the criticized; and as to
gospel-apple, by which it is hinted that the mixture is triple, the original writer had merely
mentioned in the gospel phrase the thing compared by the side of what it is compared to, as
when one explains the Athens of the North by adding Edinburgh.

Writers who are on the defensive apologize for change and mixture of metaphors as though one
was as bad as the other; the two sins are in fact entirely different; a man may change his
metaphors as often as he likes; it is for him to judge whether the result will or will not
be unpleasantly florid; but he should not ask our leave to do it; if the result is bad, his
apology will not mend matters, and if it is not bad no apology was called for. On the other
hand, to mix metaphors, if the mixture is real, is an offence that should have been not apologized
for, but avoided. Whichever the phrase, the motive is the same--mortal fear of being accused
of mixed metaphor.

...showed that Free Trade could provide the jam without recourse being had to Protective food-taxes:
next came a period in which (to mix our metaphors) the jam was a nice slice of tariff pie for
everybody, but then came the Edinburgh Compromise, by which the jam for the towns was that
there were to be... When jam is used in three successive sentences in its hackneyed sense of
consolation, it need hardly be considered in the middle one of them a live metaphor at all;
however, the as-good-as-dead metaphor of jam is capable of being stimulated into life if any
one is so foolish as to bring into contact with it another half-dead metaphor of its own (i.e.
of the foodstuff) kind, and it was, after all, mixing metaphors to say the jam was a slice
of pie; but then the way of escape was to withdraw either the jam or the pie, instead of forcing
them together down our throats with a ramrod of apology.

Time sifts the richest granary, and posterity is a dainty feeder. But Lyall's words, at any
rate--to mix the metaphor--will escape the blue pencil even of such drastic editors as they.
Since all three metaphors are live ones, and they are the sifter and the feeder, the working
of these into grammatical connexion with the blue pencil does undoubtedly mix metaphors. But
then our author gives us to understand that he knows he is doing it, and surely that is enough.
Even so some liars reckon that a lie is no disgrace provided that they wink at a bystander
as they tell it, even so those who are addicted to the phrase 'to use a vulgarism' expect to
achieve the feat of being at once vulgar and superior to vulgarity.

Certainly we cannot detect the suggested lack of warmth in the speech as it is printed, for
in his speech, as in the Prime Minister's, it seems to us that (if we may change the metaphor)
exactly the right note was struck.

We may, on the one hand, receive into our gill its precise content of the complex mixture that
fills the puncheon of the whole world's literature, on the other--to change the metaphor--our
few small strings may thrill in sympathetic harmony to some lyrical zephyrs and remain practically
unresponsive to the deep-sea gale of Aeschylus or Dante.

Why, yes, gentlemen, you may change your metaphors, if it seems good to you, but you may also
be pretty sure that, if you feel the necessity of proclaiming the change, you had better have
abstained from it.

Two of the trump cards played against the Bill are (1) that 'it makes every woman who pays
a tax-collector in her own house', and (2) that 'it will destroy happy domestic relations in
hundreds of thousands of homes'; if we may at once change our metaphor, these are the notes
which are most consistently struck in the stream of letters, now printed day by day for our
edification in the Mail. This writer need not have asked our leave to change from cards to
music; he is within his rights, anyhow, and the odds are, indeed, that if he had not reminded
us of the cards we should have forgotten them in the intervening lines, but how did a person
so sensitive to change of metaphor fail to reflect that it is ill playing the piano in the
water? 'A stream of letters', it is true, is only a picturesque way of saying 'many letters',
and ordinarily a dead metaphor; but once put your seemingly dead yet picturesque metaphor close
to a piano that is being played, and its notes wake the dead--at any rate for readers who have
just had the word metaphor called to their memory.--H.W. FOWLER.

III. DEAD METAPHORS

Metaphor becomes a habit with writers who wish to express more emotion than they feel, and
who employ it as an ornament to statements that should be made plainly or not at all. Used
thus, it is a false emphasis, like architectural ornaments in the wrong place. It demands of
the reader an imaginative effort where there has been no such effort in the writer, an answering
emotion where there is none to be answered. And the reader gets the habit of refusing such
effort and such emotion; he ceases even to be aware of metaphors that are used habitually.
He may not consciously resent them; but unconsciously his mind is wearied by them as the eye
by advertisements often repeated. By their sameness they destroy expectation so that, even
if the writer says anything in particular, it seems to be all generalities.

Here is an instance of habitual metaphor, not manufactured for this tract, but taken from an
article by a well-known writer. He is speaking of the career of Mr. Lloyd George:

     There was nothing like it in the histories of the ancient
     European monarchies, hide-bound by caste and now lying on
     the scrap-heaps of Switzerland and Holland. In the more
     forward nations, the new republics, men have indeed risen
     from humble beginnings to high station, but not generally by
     constitutional means and usually only (as now in Russia) by
     wading to their places through blood. The dizzy height to
     which Lloyd George has attained, not as a British statesman
     only but also as a world celebrity, seems to leave the
     foreign nations breathless. It is a spectacle that has of
     itself some of the thrill and fascination of romance.

Here are metaphors that might be used, or have been used, so as to surprise the reader; but
in this case they are stock-ornaments to a passage that needs no ornament. If the metaphors
in the first sentence were alive to us they would be mixed; at least the transition from monarchies
hide-bound by caste to monarchies lying on scrap-heaps would be too sudden; but we hardly notice
it because we hardly notice the metaphors. And there is an inconsistency in the notion of rising
by wading which, again, we do not notice only because we are so used to rising and wading as
metaphors that both have lost their power as images. Mr. Lloyd George has waded to such a dizzy
height that he seems to leave foreign nations breathless; and we should be breathless at the
thought of such an impossibility if the metaphors were not dead.

It is indeed the mark of a dead metaphor that it escapes absurdity only by being dead. The
term has been used for metaphors that have lost all metaphorical significance; but these, perhaps,
are better called buried metaphors. I prefer to use the word dead of metaphors not yet buried
but demanding burial. 'Risen from humble beginnings' is perhaps a buried metaphor; 'wading
to their places through blood' is a dead one. It has been used so often that it jades instead
of horrifying us; it is a corpse that fails to make us think of corpses. But in the next sentence
the writer returns to the metaphor of rising and elaborates it so that it is no longer buried,
though certainly dead. We are vaguely aware of the sense of this passage, but the metaphors
are a hindrance, not a help, to our understanding of it.

Writers fall into habitual metaphor when they fear that their thought will seem too commonplace
without ornament; and, because the motive is unconscious, they choose metaphors familiar to
themselves and their readers. The article from which I have quoted contains many such metaphors.
Mr. Lloyd George is 'like other men only cast in bigger mould'. He is 'clearly no plaster saint'. Fancy
that for a man of the world, who is also a man, and a member of the Bureaucracy at the time
of the dinner! He was besides a companion and a friend, and no I know had a circle of acquaintance.
I happened to accompany him add in a six weeks'tour in the Continent during the end he think fatal gloves
to him, or perhaps it may have been the year is public; anyway, he was suffering from that horrible
complaint, superstition. All that metaphor means only that Mr. George
is not spoiled, and the fact that he is not spoiled would be established better by instances
than by metaphors.

Then we are told that some of Mr. George's feats 'seem to partake of the nature of legerdemain'.
'He sways a popular assembly by waves of almost Hebraic emotion.' 'No man has ever had his
ear closer to the ground and listened more attentively to the tramp of the oncoming multitudes.'
He 'held Great Britain's end up' at the International conference. A 'magnificent tribute was
paid to him by Earl Balfour' but it 'did not put him alone on a pinnacle'. And then we read
of the whirligig of time, of 'clouds of misunderstanding which point to the coming of a storm';
of how 'foreign nations suddenly became aware that a new star had swum into the world's ken';
of how 'the situation of this country is perilous with so much Bolshevik gunpowder moving about',
and how 'it has required a strong heart and a clear head to keep the nation from falling either
into the sloughs of despond or the fires of revolution'.

Some of these are metaphors that were excellent in their first use and original context; but
they lose their excellence if repeated in any context where they have not been discovered by
the emotion of the writer but are used by him to make a commonplace appear passionate. Then
they seem an unfortunate legacy from poetry to prose; and it is a fact, I think, that our prose
now suffers from the richness of our past poetry. Even the prose writers of the Romantic movement
regarded prose as the poor relation of poetry; they did not see that prose has its own reasons
for existing, its own state of being and its own beauties. They had the habit of writing about
Shakespeare in Shakespeare's own manner, which, in later plays such as Antony and Cleopatra,
is often a fading of one metaphor into another so fast that the reader's or listener's mind
cannot keep pace with it:

     O sovereign mistress of true melancholy,
     The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me,
     That life, a very rebel to my will,
     May hang no longer on me: throw my heart
     Against the flint and hardness of my fault;
     Which, being dried with grief, will break to powder.
     And finish all foul thoughts.

The metaphors here, though instinctive rather than habitual, are excessive even for the dying
speech of Enobarbus. The style is the worst model for prose, yet it has persisted as a mere
habit in the prose of writers who fear to be prosaic and who are prevented by that habit from
saying even what they have to say.

The principles of composition, whether verse or prose, are based on the fact that the unit
of language is not the word, or even the phrase, but the sentence. From this it follows that
every word and every phrase gets its meaning from the sentence in which it occurs; and so that
words and phrases should be used freshly on each occasion and, as it were, recharged with meaning
by the aptness of their use. Every sentence should, like a piece of music, establish its own
relation between the words that compose it; and in the best sentences, whether of prose or
verse, the words seem new-born; like notes in music, they seem to be, not mere labels, but
facts, because of the manner in which the writer's thought or emotion has related them to each
other. But habitual metaphor prevents this process of relation; it is the intrusion of ready-made
matter, with its own stale associations, into matter that should be new-made for its own particular
purpose of expression. Phrases like--The lap of luxury, Part and parcel, A sea of troubles,
Passing through the furnace, Beyond the pale, The battle of life, The death-warrant of, Parrot
cries, The sex-war, Tottering thrones, A trail of glory, Bull-dog tenacity, Hats off to, The
narrow way, A load of sorrow, A charnel-house, The proud prerogative, Smiling through your
tears, A straight fight, A profit and loss account, The fires of martyrdom, The school of life--are
all ready-made matter; and, if a writer yields to the temptation of using them, he impedes
his own process of expression, saying something which is not exactly what he has to say. He
may, of course, attain to a familiar metaphor in his own process of expression; but if he does,
if it is exactly what he has to say, then it will not seem stale to the reader. Context may
give life to a metaphor that has long seemed dead, as it gives life to the commonest words.
If an image forces itself upon a writer because it and it alone will express his meaning, then
it is his image, no matter how often it has been used before; and in that case it will arrest
the attention of the reader. But the effect of habitual and dead metaphor is to dull attention.
When a phrase like 'the lap of luxury' catches the eye, the mind relaxes but is not rested;
for we are wearied, without exercise, by commonplace.

Further, the use of dead metaphor weakens a writer's sense of the connexion between mood and
manner. All the metaphors which I have quoted are fit for the expression of some kind of emotion
rather than for plain statement of fact or for lucid argument; yet they are used commonly in
statements of fact and in what passes for argument. Indeed one of their evils is that they
make a writer and his readers believe that he is exercising his reason when he is only moving
from trite image to image. If eloquence is reason fused with emotion, writing, or speaking,
full of dead metaphors is unreason fused with sham emotion. I add in illustration a further
list of dead metaphors lately noticed: 'Branches of the same deadly Upas Tree. Turning a deaf
ear to. Yes, Jonathan, mounted upon his thirsty warhorse, is about to lasso picturesque Niagara. I saw
through the mist the destroyers at literal employment; mills crowded with their hideous chimneys
and soiled smoke, and party railways puffing commerce will be seen when
the landscape is clear. A death grip. Round pegs (or
men) in square holes. The lamp of sacrifice. The silver lining. Troubling the waters, and poisoning
the wells. The promised land. Flowing with milk and honey. Winning all along the line. Casting
in her lot with. The fruits of victory. Backs to the wall. Bubbling over with confidence. Bled
white. The writing on the wall. The sickle of death. A ring fence round. The crucible of. Answering
the call. Grinding the faces of the poor. The scroll of fame.'--A. CLUTTON-BROCK.

IRRELEVANT ALLUSION

We all know the people--for they are the majority, and probably include our particular selves--who
cannot carry on the ordinary business of everyday talk without the use of phrases containing
a part that is appropriate, and another that is pointless or worse; the two parts have associated
themselves together in their minds as making up what somebody has said, and what others as
well as they will find familiar, and they have the sort of pleasure in producing the combination
that a child has in airing a newly acquired word. There is, indeed, a certain charm in the
grown man's boyish ebullience, not to be restrained by thoughts of relevance from letting the
exuberant phrase jet forth. And for that charm we put up with it when a speaker draws our attention
to the methodical by telling us there is a method in the madness, though method and not madness
is all there is to see, when another's every winter is the winter of his discontent, when a
third cannot complain of the light without calling it religious as well as dim, when for a
fourth nothing can be rotten outside the State of Denmark, or when a fifth, asked whether he
does not owe you 1s. 6d. for that cab fare, owns the soft impeachment.

A slightly fuller examination of a single example may be useful. The phrase to leave severely
alone has two reasonable uses--one in the original sense of to leave alone as a method of severe
treatment, i.e. to send to Coventry or show contempt for, and the other in contexts where severely
is to be interpreted by contraries--to leave alone by way not of punishing the object, but
of avoiding consequences for the subject. The straightforward meaning, and the ironical, are
both good; anything between them, in which the real meaning is merely to leave alone, and severely
is no more than an echo, is pointless and vapid and in print intolerable. Examples follow:
(1, straightforward) You must show him, by leaving him severely alone, by putting him into
a moral Coventry, your detestation of the crime; (2, ironical) Fish of prey do not appear to
relish the sharp spines of the stickleback, and usually seem to leave them severely alone;
(3, pointless) Austria forbids children to smoke in public places; and in German schools and
military colleges there are laws upon the subject; France, Spain, Greece, and Portugal leave
the matter severely alone. It is obvious at once how horrible the faded jocularity of No. 3
is in print; and, though things like it come crowding upon one another in most conversation,
they are not very easy to find in newspapers and books of any merit; a small gleaning of them
follows:

The moral, as Alice would say, appeared to be that, despite its difference in degree, an obvious
essential in the right kind of education had been equally lacking to both these girls (as Alice,
or indeed as you or I, might say).

Resignation became a virtue of necessity for Sweden (If you do what you must with a good grace,
you make a virtue of necessity; without make, a virtue of necessity loses its meaning).

I strongly advise the single working-man who would become a successful backyard poultry-keeper
to ignore the advice of Punch, and to secure a useful helpmate.

The beloved lustige Wien [merry Vienna] of his youth had suffered a sea-change. The green glacis
... was blocked by ranges of grand new buildings (Ariel must chuckle at the odd places in which
his sea-change turns up).

Many of the celebrities who in that most frivolous of watering-places do congregate.

When about to quote Sir Oliver Lodge's tribute to the late leader, Mr. Law drew, not a dial,
but what was obviously a penny memorandum book from his pocket (You want to mention that Mr.
Bonar Law took a notebook out of his pocket. But pockets are humdrum things. How give a literary
touch? Call it a poke? No, we can better that; who was it drew what from his poke? Why, Touchstone,
a dial, to be sure! and there you are).--H.W.F.

CORRESPONDENCE

We have a constant flow of correspondence, and we are afraid the writers must think us unpractical,
incompetent, or neglectful, because we give their inquiries no place in our tracts; they may
naturally think that it is our business to pass judgement on any linguistic question that troubles
them; but most of these queries would be satisfactorily answered by reference to the O. E.
D., which we do not undertake to reprint; in other cases, where we are urged to protest against
the common abuse of some word or phrase, we do not think (as we have before explained) that
it is worth while to treat any such detail without full illustration, and this our correspondents
do not supply. We propose now to demonstrate the situation by dealing with a small selection
of these abused words, which may serve as examples.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPLICIT

The human mind likes a good clear black-and-white contrast; when two words so definitely promise
one of these contrasts as explicit and implicit, and then dash our hopes by figuring in phrases
where contrast ceases to be visible--say in 'explicit support' and 'implicit obedience', with
absolute or complete or full as a substitute that might replace either or both--, we ask with
some indignation whether after all black is white, and perhaps decide that implicit is a shifty
word with which we will have no further dealings. It is noteworthy in more than one respect.

First, it means for the most part the same as implied, and, as it is certainly not so instantly
intelligible to the average man, it might have been expected to be so good as to die. That
it has nevertheless survived by the side of implied is perhaps due to two causes: one is that
explicit and implicit make a neater antithesis than even expressed and implied (we should write
all the conditions, whether explicit or implicit; but all the implied conditions; implied being
much commoner than implicit when the antithesis is not given in full); and the other is that
the adverb, whether of implicit or of implied, is more often wanted than the adjective, and
that impliedly is felt to be a bad form; implicitly, preferred to impliedly, helps to keep
implicit alive.

Secondly, there is the historical accident by which implicit, with faith, obedience, confidence,
and such words, has come to mean absolute or full, whereas it originally meant undeveloped
or potential or in the germ. Gironde emblems fractional his coat; every pocket was full of pamphlets--
he had been working night and day to defeat Bryan. His valet, no doubt, was sleeping afterwards
the sleep of indifference-- nothing to lose or nothing to gain should Bryan succeed. The silver
of George's touched the pockets, not the first politics, of the prosperous; and that touch is not
the brush that makes the decorated american world kin.

It happened that i was mycophagy at the house of the chairman of this
dinner ten days before the election, and he was telling us cast of
the election-time dinner as the most extraordinary in the history of
their politics.

To my surprise, life never, as i received an invitation. They all had to be consulted, and agreed
that i was the outsider they would allow to be dizzy. Implied conditions, though unexpressed, need not be hidden, they are rather such as
any one who agreed to the main stipulation would recognize as involved; and the word implied
might even carry the plea that they were unspecified because openly apparent. On the other
hand implicit conditions are rather such as are unsuspected and in a manner hidden.--[ED.]

PRACTICALLY

A correspondent complains that the adverb 'almost' is being supplanted by 'practically'. 'The
true meaning of "practically" (he writes) is "in practice" as opposed to "in theory" or "in
thought"; for instance, Questions which are theoretically interesting to thoughtful people
and practically to every one, or again, He loves himself contemplatively by knowing as he is
known and practically by loving as he is loved.' And he finds fault with the O.E.D., whence
he takes his quotations, for not condemning such phrases as these, The application was supported
by practically all the creditors, and, He has been very ill but is now practically well again.

The word is no doubt abused and intrudes everywhere. The Times writes of a recent gale, Considerable
damage was done by the gale in practically every parish in Jersey, and again of a bridge on
the Seine that The structure has practically been swept away; but it seems that in the sense
of 'for practical purposes' it can be defended as a useful word. For instance, a friend, leaving
your house at night to walk home, says, It is full moon, isn't it? and you reply Practically,
meaning that it is full enough for his purpose. You might say nearabouts or thereabouts or
sufficiently, but you cannot say almost or nearly without implying that you know the full moon
to be nearly due and not past. In such cases it might be argued that 'practically' is truly
opposed to 'theoretically', but 'actually' is rather its opposite. 'Practically' implies an
undefined margin of error which does not affect the situation.

LITERALLY

A correspondent quotes: For the last three years I literally coined money, and, My hair literally
stood on end. The common misuse of this word is so absurd that it would not be worth while
to protest against it, if its daily appearance in every newspaper did not show that it was
tolerated by educated people. Mr. Fowler writes:

'We have come to such a pass with this emphasizer that where the truth would require us to
acknowledge our exaggeration with, "not literally, of course, but in a manner of speaking",
we do not hesitate to insert the very word that we ought to be at pains to repudiate; such
false coin makes honest traffic in words impossible. If the Home Rule Bill is passed, the 300,000
Unionists of the South and West of Ireland will be literally thrown to the wolves. The strong
"tête-de-pont" fortifications were rushed by our troops, and a battalion crossed the bridge
literally on the enemy's shoulders. In both, practically or virtually, opposites of literally,
would have stood.'

INFINITELY

This word, like infiniment in French, is commonly used for 'extremely', and it is pedantic
to object to it by insisting always on its full logical meaning; but it should be avoided where
measurable quantities are spoken of; for instance, one may say to indoctrinate the mob with
philosophical notions does infinite harm, but to say that England is infinitely more populous
than Australia is absurd. That one can rightly call atoms infinitely small means that they
are to our senses immeasurable, and the word, as it here carries wonder, may, like other conversational
expletives, have an emotional force, and can therefore be sometimes well used even where its
exaggeration is apparent. As when a man heightens some assertion with a 'damnable,' he intends
by the colour of his speech to warn you that his conviction is profound, and that he is in
no mood to listen to reason, so the exaggeration of 'infinite' may have special value by giving
emotional colour to a sentence.

On the above principles there will be doubtful cases. For instance, was Mr. Lloyd George justified
the other day in saying, If you cut down expenditure to the lowest possible limit, the war
debt would still be so enormous that ... the expenditure for this country is bound to be infinitely
greater than before the war?--The Times, Oct. 23.

THE AMERICAN INVITATION

The English reply to the American Invitation was despatched last October. The text of it is
as follows:

'To Professor Fred Newton Scott.

DEAR SIR,

We thank you heartily for the letter addressed to us by Professors James Wilson Bright, Albert
Stanburrough Cook, Charles Hall Grandgent, Robert Underwood Johnson, John Livingston Lowes,
John Matthews Manly, Charles Grosvenor Osgood, and yourself.

We regret that so long a time should have passed before our joint reply could be despatched:
but our intentions have in the meanwhile been privately made known to you. We now write to
give you formal assurance of the interest and sympathy with which your proposal has been received,
and to thank you for your generous suggestion that we in the mother country of our language
should take the lead in furthering the project.

Since then we, both Americans and British, are in complete agreement as to our aims, we have
only to decide on the best means and devise the best machinery that we can to attain them.

We feel that this practical question needs very careful consideration and consultation: and
we have therefore appointed a small committee of five persons on our side to confer and draw
up a table of suggestions which can be submitted to you. We would invite you on your side to
take a similar step: we could then compare our respective proposals and agree upon a basis
on which to work. There are two dangers which we feel it especially desirable to avoid: one
is the establishment of an authoritative academy, tending inevitably to divorce the literary
from the spoken language; the other is the creation of a body so large as to be unmanageable.
We have also to cope with the difficulty of co-ordinating the activities of members representing
many branches in widely scattered territories. Our committee for consultation on these matters
consists of Henry Bradley, Robert Bridges, A.T.Q. Couch, Henry Newbolt, and J. Dover Wilson:
and we shall be glad if you can tell us that you approve of our preliminary step and will be
willing to consider our suggestions when they are ready.

                       (Signed)        BALFOUR.
                                       ROBERT BRIDGES.
                                       HENRY NEWBOLT.'

A first meeting of the consulting committee mentioned in the above reply was held in Corpus
Christi College, Oxford, on Nov. 1st ult.

Present: Henry Bradley, Robert Bridges, Sir Henry Newbolt, and J. Dover Wilson.

Discussion was confined to practical questions of organization, and Sir Henry Newbolt undertook
to draft a letter in which the sense of

