THE UTTERMOST FARTHING

A SAVANT'S VENDETTA

BY R. AUSTIN FREEMAN

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I. The Motive Force

II. "Number One"

III. The Housemaid's Followers

IV. The Gifts of Chance

V. By-products of Industry

VI. The Trail of the Serpent

VII. The Uttermost Farthing

THE UTTERMOST FARTHING

I

THE MOTIVE FORCE

It is not without some misgivings that I at length make public the strange history communicated
to me by my lamented friend Humphrey Challoner. The outlook of the narrator is so evidently
abnormal, his ethical standards are so remote from those ordinarily current, that the chronicle
of his life and actions may not only fail to secure the sympathy of the reader but may even
excite a certain amount of moral repulsion. But by those who knew him, his generosity to the
poor, and especially to those who struggled against undeserved misfortune, will be an ample
set-off to his severity and even ferocity towards the enemies of society.

Humphrey Challoner was a great savant spoiled by untimely wealth. When I knew him he had lapsed
into a mere dilettante; at least, so I thought at the time, though subsequent revelations showed
him in a rather different light. He had some reputation as a criminal anthropologist and had
formerly been well known as a comparative anatomist, but when I made his acquaintance he seemed
to be occupied chiefly in making endless additions to the specimens in his private museum. Her
eyes were so dazzled, her head so giddy, her senses so faint, that everything swam round her, and
there that strange vision recurred. Peregrine Oakshott was before her. She closed her eyes
again, as she lay back in the chair.

"Take this; you will be better." A glass was at her lips, and she swallowed some hot drink, which
revived her so that she opened her eyes again, and by the lights in an apparently richly curtained
room, she again beheld that figure standing by her, the glass in
his hand.

"Oh!" she gasped. "Are you alive?"

The answer was to raise her still gloved hand with substantial fingers
to a pair of lips.

"Then-- then-- he is safe!

Thank God!" she murmured, and shut her eyes again, dizzy and overcome, unable even to analyse
her conviction that all would be well, and that in some manner he
had come to her rescue.

"Where am I?" she murmured dreamily. "In Elf-land?"

"Yes; come to be Queen of it."

The words blended with her confused fancies. Indeed she was hardly fully conscious of anything,
except that a woman's hands were about her, and that she was taken into another room, where
her drenched clothes were removed, and she was placed in a warm, narrow bed, where some more
warm nourishment was put into her mouth with a spoon, after which
she sank into a sleep of utter exhaustion.

That sleep lasted long. There was a sensation of the rocking of the boat, and of aching limbs,
through great part of the time; also there seemed to be a continual roaring and thundering around
her, and such strange misty visions, that when she finally awoke, after a long interval of deeper
and sounder slumber, she was incapable of separating the fact from the dream, more especially as
head and limbs were still heavy, weary, and battered.

The strange roaring still sounded, and sometimes seemed to shake the bed. Twilight was coming
in at a curtained window, and showed a tiny chamber, with rafters overhead and thatch, a chest,
a chair, and table.

There was a pallet on the floor, and Anne suspected that she had been wakened by the rising
of its occupant. Her watch was on the chair by her side, but it had not been wound, and the
dim light did not increase, so that there was no guessing the time; and as the remembrance of
her dreadful adventures made themselves clear, she realised with exceeding terror that she
must be a prisoner, while the evening's apparition relegated itself
to the world of dreams.

Being
kidnapped to be sent to the plantations was the dread of those days. But if such were the case,
what would become of Charles?

In the alarm of that thought she sat up in bed and prepared to rise, but could nowhere see
her clothes, only the little cloth bag of toilet necessaries that
she had taken with her.

At
that moment, however, the woman came in with a steaming cup of chocolate
in her hand and some of the garments over her arm.

She was a stout, weather-beaten, kindly-looking woman with a high white cap, gold earrings, black
short petticoat, and many-coloured apron. "Monsieur veut savoir si mademoiselle va bien?" said
she in slow careful French, and when questions in that language were
eagerly poured out, she shook her head, and said, "Ne comprends pas."

She, however, brought in the rest of the clothes, warm water, and
a light, so that Anne rose and dressed, exceedingly perplexed, and
wondering whether she could be in a ship, for the sounds seemed to
say so, and there was no corresponding motion.

Could she be in France? Certainly the voyage had seemed interminable, but she did not think it could
have been long enough for that, nor that any person in his senses would try to cross in an
open boat in such weather.

She looked at the window, a tiny slip of glass, too thick to show anything but what seemed to
be a dark wall rising near at hand. Alas! she was certainly a prisoner! In whose hands? With what intent?
How would it affect that other prisoner at Winchester? Was that vision
of last night substantial or the work of her exhausted brain? What
could she do? It was well for her that she could believe in the might
of prayer. Slowly we passed down the corridor
that led to the "museum wing," walked through the ill-smelling laboratories (for Challoner
prepared the bones of the lower animals himself, though, for obvious reasons, he acquired the
human skeletons from dealers) and entered the long room where the main collection was kept.

Here we halted, and while Challoner recovered his breath, I looked round on the familiar scene.
The inevitable whale's skeleton--a small sperm whale--hung from the ceiling, on massive iron
supports. The side of the room nearest the door was occupied by a long glass case filled with
skeletons of animals, all diseased, deformed or abnormal. On the floor-space under the whale
stood the skeletons of a camel and an aurochs. The camel was affected with rickets and the
aurochs had multiple exostoses or bony tumors. At one end of the room was a large case of skulls,
all deformed or asymmetrical; at the other stood a long table and a chest of shallow drawers;
while the remaining long side of the room was filled from end to end by a glass case about
eight feet high containing a number of human skeletons, each neatly articulated and standing
on its own pedestal.

Now, this long case had always been somewhat of a mystery to me. Its contents differed from
the other specimens in two respects. First, whereas all the other skeletons and the skulls
bore full descriptive labels, these human skeletons were distinguished merely by a number and
a date on the pedestal; and, second, whereas all the other specimens illustrated some disease
or deformity, these were, apparently, quite normal or showed only some trifling abnormality.
They were beautifully prepared and bleached to ivory whiteness, but otherwise they were of
no interest, and I could never understand Challoner's object in accumulating such a number
of duplicate specimens.

"You think you know this collection inside out," said Challoner, as if reading my thoughts.

"I know it pretty well, I think," was my reply.

"You don't know it at all," he rejoined.

"Oh, come!" I said. "I could write a catalogue of it from memory."

Challoner laughed. "My dear fellow," said he, "you have never seen the real gems of the collection.
I am going to show them to you now."

He passed his arm through mine and we walked slowly up the long room; and as we went, he glanced
in at the skeletons in the great case with a faint and very horrible smile on his bloated face.
At the extreme end I stopped him and pointed to the last skeleton in the case.

"I want you to explain to me, Challoner, why you have distinguished this one by a different
pedestal from the others." 

An attempt was made to establish a more lasting settlement in the conference of Augsburg in 1555.
Here the terms of the recent treaty were put in more formal shape: Lutheranism was given legal recognition;
all religious disputes should be settled by peaceful means; in legal causes between a Protestant
and a Catholic the Imperial Hight Court of Justice should be composed
of an equal number of Catholics and Protestants.

On the other hand, certain compromises were then introduced which
were destined to be fatal to the permanency of the religious and political
settlement.

1.

Instead of individual toleration, as was originally proposed, the principle was adopted which
has become known as cujus regio ejus religio-- that is to say, each prince or imperial city should
choose between Catholicism and Lutheranism; and thereafter all inhabitants must conform, or,
if unwilling to do so, must expatriate themselves. The unstable equilibrium of the empire was
thus transferred to the individual states, and each was threatened with internal revolution whenever
there was a change in the prevailing religious views of the inhabitants
or the personal beliefs of the prince.

2. A second compromise was reached by providing that all ecclesiastical property seized by temporal
governments down to the close of the late war should be guaranteed to its new possessors; but
that for the future the process of secularization should cease.

Thus an artificial obstacle was placed in the way of the avarice or the desire for reform of
the Protestant princes, at the very time they were given increased
control in their own states.

3.
The "ecclesiastical reservation" made an exception to the right of
territorial independence in religion in the case of the ecclesiastical
states, which were so numerous in Germany.

If any archbishop, bishop, or abbot, who was also a secular prince, should become a Lutheran,
he must resign his office and divest himself of his power and jurisdiction, which would pass
to his Catholic successor. This provision deprived Protestant subjects of ecclesiastical princes
of all prospect of religious freedom, and doomed them to compulsory reconciliation with the Catholic Church
or to exile, except for certain rights guaranteed to them by the
treaty.

4. The compromises of Augsburg were compromises between Catholics and Lutherans only, and neither
Calvinists nor Zwinglians were given recognition in its terms, although Calvinism was destined
to be the great aggressive force of the Reformation, making an appeal to the masses of the people
and taking a fundamental hold upon its adherents beyond anything which Lutheranism, or indeed
any other form of the Reformation, ever obtained.

The agreement reached in 1555, incomplete and unstable as it seemed, remained the foundation of
an outward if somewhat troubled religious peace for more than sixty years. Yet a renewal of
the conflict was threatened from time to time, and in 1618 the terrible Thirty Years'War broke
out. The earlier contests had been civil wars only, the renewed war was no longer merely a
German struggle. In 1625 Christian IV., king of Denmark, entered the war as leader on the Protestant
side, only to yield to the perseverance of Tilly, the general of the Catholic armies, and to
the genius of Wallenstein, the representative of Emperor Ferdinand;
and to retire in 1629, leaving north Germany more completely than
before at the mercy of the emperor and of the Catholic party.

Scarcely a year later Gustavus Adolphus, full of enthusiasm for the
Protestant cause and provided with funds from France, brought his
veteran regiments and his military ability from Sweden into Germany,
and fought in consecutive years his three wonderful campaigns.

After the death of the "Lion of the North," in 1632, the "Swedish period" endured still two
years; and when, in 1634, Catholic and Protestant princes entered
upon a truce they made terms upon an equality, though there was even
yet but little promise of a permanent settlement.

Just before the fatal battle of Lutzen, in the midst of military preparations,
a decisive step was taken by Gustavus which ultimately led to the
creation of one more American colony.

Ever since the introduction of new issues.

One after another, foreign states were drawn into the struggle until
a mere German civil war had developed into a general European conflict,
in which foreigners were struggling for German territory.

Catholics made alliances with Lutherans and with Calvinists, until
what had begun as a religious struggle became a purely political contest
among unpatriotic German princes and ambitious neighbors of Germany
contending for power and prestige.

When, at the peace of 1648, political questions had been settled, territorial changes agreed upon,
the Netherlands and Switzerland definitely separated from the empire,
Alsace surrendered to France, and much of Pomerania to Sweden, the
religious conflict was brought to an end as far as possible by returning
to the old plan of the treaty of Augsburg, except that such toleration
as was then granted to Catholics and Lutherans was now extended to
Calvinists also.

To these provisions some further extensions of religious liberty
were added by securing guarantees of protection to subjects differing
in their religion from their princes and by including in the highest
imperial tribunal a certain number of Protestants.

[Footnote: Lamprecht, Deutsche Geschichte, V., sect ii., 764.] The material sufferings and losses of
Germany during the war were almost beyond description. [Footnote: Erdmannsdorffer, Deutsche
Geschichte, 1648-1740, I., 100-115] The armies, made tip largely of soldiers of different nationalities,
without attachment to the countries through which they marched, without interest in the questions
at issue, without a regular commissariat, often without pay, brutalized
by long campaigning and repeated sacks of cities, followed by an immense
rabble of non-combatant men, women, and children, were a barbarian
horde, and ravaged the lands in which they were established like a
fire or a pestilence.

The tortures they inflicted upon the peasantry and the citizens,
the robbery, the outrages, the wanton destruction, pressed close to
the limits of human endurance, and seemed almost to threaten the extermination
of the population.

The prosperity of the cities was crushed by war contributions, even
when they escaped being plundered like Magdeburg; and the debasement
of the coinage practised by the emperor and the princes bore hardly
upon all who bought or sold.

[Footnote: Gindeley, History of the Thirty Years'War (English trans.), II., 390-395] During
the later campaigns of the war military operations in many regions became almost impracticable from
the very impoverishment of the country; no sustenance existed for
friend or for enemy; population in some parts was almost destroyed,
and it was everywhere extensively displaced.

[Footnote: Ibid., 398.] The conservatism, the settled rooting of the people in the soil, acquired
and inherited property, moral and material fixity, were all alike
disturbed.

The half-century that followed 1648 did but little to restore prosperity
or repose to Germany.

The western provinces especially were the scene of frequently renewed
warfare.

The territorial ambitions of Louis XIV. were directed to the German lands which lay on the eastern
border of France, and there was no strength in the empire to resist his aggressions or to make
him fear either defeat or reprisals.

Even the European coalitions which forced upon him successive treaties did not prevent renewed
attacks or heal the scars of the repeated devastations of the lower and the upper Rhine country.
The culmination of this period of suffering was the terrible ravaging of the Palatinate, in 1688,
when the fertile region about Heidelberg, Mannheim, Speyer, and Worms was harried and burned
and pillaged by the soldiers of Louis, with the same brutality and
more destructiveness than the wild Swedish and mercenary armies of
the Thirty Years'War had used.

A people with an experience such as that of the Germans in the seventeenth century was thenceforth
easily drawn away from home. One generation of continuous warfare throughout all Germany, followed
by another generation of intermittent invasion from France, and closed
by a crisis of rapine and devastation, made hundreds of thousands
of the German people homeless, despairing, and eager for escape.

It was this situation of the people, combined with the religious condition before described, that made
Germany the best recruiting-ground for American colonists to be found in Europe. Before the close
of the seventeenth century a stream of emigration set from Germany towards America which furnished
to Pennsylvania one-third of her pre-Revolutionary inhabitants, and
made a considerable part of the population of several of the other
colonies.

A second effect of the Thirty Years'War was the practical dissolution
of the empire and the loss by the emperor of all centralized control
over its policy.

This was a cumulative result of the war rather than a definite provision of the peace. The princes,
nobles, and cities had so frequently allied themselves with foreign states against the emperor
and against one another, their policy had been so constantly regulated
by their own interests alone, in entire disregard of those of the
nation at large, and the religious divisions had been settled on such
a sectional basis, that there was now no thought of derogating from
their independence for the sake of the central power of Germany.

By Article VIII. of the treaty of peace all German states were definitely permitted to form independent
alliances among themselves and with foreign states, so long as these were not directed against
either the emperor or the empire. [Footnote: Lamprecht, Deutsche Geschtchte, V., Section 2,
pp 765, 766.] As a matter of fact, the bond of union among the states
of Germany had become so weak as to be almost non-existent.

The emperor was the actual ruler of the Hapsburg dominions and the nominal head of the empire; but
Germany was a geographical rather than a national expression, and
its head could play no part as a national ruler outside of his immediate
hereditary dominions.

Germany had many interests in America. Martin Behaim, Regiomontanus, and other German scientists
contributed largely to the development of the science of navigation
during the period of discovery; Waldseemuller suggested the name that
has been universally accepted for the New World; the numerous printing-presses
of Germany did much to make known to Europe the history of the exploration
and early conquests and the wonders of the Indies; under Charles V.
the empire was brought closely into connection with Spain, the greatest
colonizing power of the seventeenth century; her Fuggers, Welsers,
and other capitalists provided much of the means for the early Spanish
voyages, and for a time held extensive grants in Venezuela under the
Spanish crown; and her teeming emigrants furnished a large part of
the colonial population.

Yet Germany as a nation has, of all the nations of Europe, exercised the least influence on
the fortunes of America. Neither the emperor nor any German prince has ever exercised any direct
or indirect power over any American territory. Many causes may have contributed to this failure,
but the most effective was doubtless the Thirty Years'War.

The religious disunion, the material impoverishment, and the political insignificance which
this war caused, during the most important colonizing century, excluded Germany as a nation from
a role among the European powers which have held control over parts
of the New World.

CHAPTER XI THE ENGLISH CHURCH AND THE CATHOLICS (1534-1660) England
passed through the crisis of the Reformation without a civil war,
yet no country of Europe found greater difficulty in coming to a religious
equilibrium after that change.

Though actual rebellion was nipped in the bud wherever it appeared,
as in the Pilgrimage of Grace of 1536 and in the Rising of the North
of 1569, yet between those years, and long after the second rising,
religious passions were embittered to the very verge of outbreak.

In the early period of the Reformation changes were rapid and violent,
and during more than a century and a half after Protestantism was
established hostile legislation imposed heavy burdens upon all those
who differed from the dominant party in religious faith.

When England became a colonizing country at the opening of the seventeenth century, the effect
of the religious changes up to that time had been to produce four well-marked religious parties
among her people-- Churchmen, Catholics, Puritans, and Independents. First in order came the
adherents of the established church, a church which was in a very real
sense the creation of Queen Elizabeth and of her times-- for all that
had gone before was unstable and tentative, and might readily have
been altered by a ruler of different character or policy.

When Elizabeth ascended the throne in 1558 the great body of the people of England, from a religious
point of view, was still a fluid mass, a sea accustomed to be drawn, like
the tide, by the planet that ruled the sky, whether an Erastian Henry
VIII., a Catholic Mary, or a Protestant Protector Somerset.

Elizabeth declared at her accession that she would not allow her people to
swerve to the right hand or the left from the religion established by
law; and in the main she succeeded in carrying out this policy. The prayer-book,
the articles of religion, the supremacy of the queen, the uniformity
of service, the practices and doctrines of the official English church
during the long reign of Elizabeth, meant something very definite
and made the established church an objective reality.

Of course she learned, as other sovereigns have learned, that even the will of a king may break
against the rock of religious conviction, and large numbers of the people of England during her reign
remained, or became, dissatisfied with the established church. Nevertheless, when Elizabeth died
Anglicanism was the national church in a sense in which it had not been before, and in exactly the same
sense as that in which the Roman Catholic church was the church of Spain. A generation had grown up which
had seen no other religious system in authority, whose beliefs and
duties were taught them by its clergy, and whose sentiments and devotion
naturally gathered around it as their object.

This religious
system, therefore, was strongly intrenched: it had all the authoritativeness of law, all the sanction
of patriotic feeling in a period of intense patriotism, and the support of much sound learning; besides,
the church was fast becoming hallowed by tradition and beautified to the imagination by sentiment.
Yet for various reasons the Anglican church failed to obtain the allegiance of the whole English
nation. The second of the four great religious classes, the Catholics, held allegiance to a still
older and more imposing organization. However clear the argument of English churchmen that the
Anglican body was the church founded by the apostles and enduring continuously in England through
all the intervening centuries, the "old church" was still to many
the church of which the pope was the earthly head.

From the time that Henry VIII. attacked the supremacy of the pope and many of the characteristic
doctrines and practices of the mediaeval church, a party separate from
the national church came into being, which clung faithfully to that
system.

The existence of the English Roman Catholics as a separate body from the established English church
may be considered to date from the resignation of Sir Thomas More from
the chancellorship in 1532.

During the remainder of Henry's reign their position was equivocal
and dangerous, a number of conspicuous Catholics accepting martyrdom under
the laws against treason, when brought to the test of the acceptance or rejection
of the king's claim to the headship of the English church.

"Having settled on the method, I was disposed to put it into practice at once; but then another
consideration arose. My wife would have to be buried. By some hands she must be laid in her
last resting-place, and those hands could be none other than my own. So I must stay behind
for a little while.

"The hours passed on unreckoned until pencils of cold blue daylight began to stream in through
the chinks of the shutters and contend with the warm gaslight within. Then another footstep
was heard on the stairs and the cook, Wilson, came into the room. She, like the housemaid,
stopped dead when she saw my wife's corpse, and stood for an instant staring wildly with her
mouth wide open. But only for an instant. The next she was flying out of the front door, rousing
the street with her screams.

"The advent of the cook roused me. I knew that the police would arrive soon and I instinctively
looked about me to see how this unspeakable thing had happened. I had already noticed that
one of my wife's hands--the one that I had not been holding--was clenched, and I now observed
that it grasped a little tuft of hair. I drew out a portion of the tuft and looked at it. It
was coarse hair, about three inches long and a dull gray in color. I laid it on the clean note-paper
in the drawer of the bureau bookcase to examine later, and then glanced around the room. The
origin of the tragedy was obvious. The household plate had been taken out of the plate chest
in the pantry and laid out on the end of the dining table. There the things stood, their polished
surfaces sullied by the greasy finger-marks of the wretch who had murdered my wife. At those
tell-tale marks I looked with new and growing interest. Finger-prints, in those days, had not
yet been recognized by the public or the police as effective means of identification. But they
were well known to scientific men and I had given the subject some attention myself. And the
sight of those signs-manual of iniquity had an immediate effect on me; they converted the unknown
perpetrator of this horror from a mere abstraction of disaster into a real, living person.
With a sudden flush of hate and loathing, I realized that this wretch was even now walking
the streets or lurking in his accursed den; and I realized, too, that these marks were, perhaps,
the only links that connected him with the foul deed that he had done.

"I looked over the plate quickly and selected a salver and a large, globular teapot, on both
of which the prints were very distinct. These I placed in a drawer of the bureau, and, turning
the key, dropped it into the pocket of my pajamas. And at that moment the bell rang violently.

"I went to the door and admitted a police constable and the cook. The latter looked at me with
evident fear and horror and the constable said, somewhat sternly:

"'This young woman tells me there's something wrong here, sir.'

"I led him into the dining-room--the cook remained at the door, peering in with an ashen face--and
showed him my wife's corpse. He took off his helmet and asked rather gruffly how it happened.
I gave him a brief account of the catastrophe, on which he made no comment except to remark
that the inspector would be here presently.

"The inspector actually arrived within a couple of minutes, accompanied by a sergeant, and
the two officers questioned me closely. I repeated my statement and saw at once that they did
not believe me; that they suspected me of having committed the murder myself. I noted the fact
with dull surprise but without annoyance. It didn't seem to matter to me what they thought.

"They called the cook in and questioned her, but, of course, she knew nothing. Then they sent
her to find the housemaid. But the housemaid had disappeared and her outdoor clothes and a
large hand-bag had disappeared too; which put a new complexion on the matter. Then the officers
examined the plate and looked at the finger-marks on it. The constable discovered the tuft
of hair in my poor wife's hand, and the inspector having noted its color and looked rather
hard at my hair, put it for safety in a blue envelope, which he pocketed; and I suspect it
never saw the light again.

"About this time the police surgeon arrived, but there was nothing for him to do but note the
state of the body as bearing on the time at which death took place. The police took possession
of some of the plate with a dim idea of comparing the finger-prints with the fingers of the
murderer if they should catch him.

"But they never did catch him. Not a vestige of a clue to his identity was ever forthcoming.
The housemaid was searched for but never found. The coroner's jury returned a verdict of 'wilful
murder' against some person unknown. And that was the end of the matter. I accompanied my dearest
to the place where she was laid to rest, where soon I shall join her. And I came back alone
to the empty house.

"It is unnecessary for me to say that I did not kill myself. In the interval I had seen things
in a new light. It was evident to me from the first that the police would never capture that
villain. And yet he had to be captured. He had incurred a debt, and that debt had to be paid.
Therefore I remained behind to collect it.

"That was twenty years ago, Wharton; twenty long, gray, solitary years. Many a time have I
longed to go to her, but the debt remained unpaid. I have tried to make the time pass by getting
my little collection together and studying the very instructive specimens in it; and it has
lightened the burden. But all the time I have been working to collect that debt and earn my
release."

He paused awhile, and I ventured to ask: "And is the debt paid?"

"At last it is paid."

"The man was caught, then, in the end?"

"Yes. He was caught."

"And I hope," I exclaimed fervently, "that the scoundrel met with his deserts; I mean, that
he was duly executed."

"Yes," Challoner answered quietly, "he was executed."

"How did the police discover him, after all?" I asked.

"You will find," said Challoner, "a full account of the affair in the last volume of the 'Museum
Archives';" then, noting the astonishment on my face at this amazing statement, he added: "You
see, Wharton, the 'Museum Archives' are, in a sense, a personal diary; my life has been wrapped
up in the museum and I have associated all the actions of my life with the collection. I think
you will understand when you read it. And now let us dismiss these recollections of a ruined
life. I have told you my story; I wanted you to hear it from my own lips, and you have heard
it. Now let us take a glass of wine and talk of something else."

I looked at my watch and, finding it much later than I had supposed, rose to take my leave.

"I oughtn't to have kept you up like this," I said. "You ought to have been in bed an hour ago."

Challoner laughed his queer muffled laugh. "Bed!" exclaimed he. "I don't go to bed nowadays.
Haven't been able to lie down for the last fortnight."

Of course he hadn't. I might have known that. "Well," I said, "at any rate, let me make you
comfortable for the night before I go. How do you generally manage?"

"I rig up a head-rest on the edge of the table, pull up the armchair, wrap myself in a rug
and sleep leaning forward. I'll show you. Just get down Owen's 'Comparative Anatomy' and stack
the volumes close to the edge of the table. Then set up Parker's 'Monograph on the Shoulder-girdle'
in a slanting position against them. Fine book, that of Parker's. I enjoyed it immensely when
it first came out and it makes a splendid head-rest. I'll go and get into my pajamas while
you are arranging the things."

He went off to his adjacent bedroom and I piled up the ponderous volumes on the table and drew
up the armchair. When he returned, I wrapped him in a couple of thick rugs and settled him
in his chair. He laid his arms on the massive monograph, rested his forehead on them and murmured
cheerfully that he should now be quite comfortable until the morning. I wished him "good-night"
and walked slowly to the door, and as I held it open I stopped to look back at him. He raised
his head and gave me a farewell smile; a queer, ugly smile, but full of courage and a noble
patience. And so I left him.

Thereafter I called to see him every day and settled him to rest every night. His disease made
more rapid progress even than I had expected; but he was always bright and cheerful, never
made any complaint and never again referred to his troubled past.

One afternoon I called a little later than usual, and when the housemaid opened the door I
asked her how he was.

"He isn't any better, sir," she answered. "He's getting most awful fat, sir; about the head
I mean."

"Where is he now?" I asked.

"He's in the dining-room, sir; I think he's gone to sleep."

I entered the room quietly and found him resting by the table. He was wrapped up in his rugs
and his head rested on his beloved monograph. I walked up to him and spoke his name softly,
but he did not rouse. I leaned over him and listened, but no sound or movement of breathing
was perceptible. The housemaid was right. He had gone to sleep; or, in his own phrase, he had
passed out of the domain of sorrow.

II

"NUMBER ONE"

It was more than a week after the funeral of my poor friend Humphrey Challoner that I paid
my first regular visit of inspection to his house. I had been the only intimate friend of this
lonely, self-contained man and he had made me not only his sole executor but his principal
legatee. With the exception of a sum of money to endow an Institute of Criminal Anthropology,
he had made me the heir to his entire estate, including his museum. The latter bequest was
unencumbered by any conditions. I could keep the collection intact, I could sell it as it stood
or I could break it up and distribute the specimens as I chose; but I knew that Challoner's
unexpressed wish was that it should be kept together, ultimately to form the nucleus of a collection
attached to the Institute.

It was a gray autumn afternoon when I let myself in. A caretaker was in charge of the house,
which was otherwise unoccupied, and the museum, which was in a separate wing, seemed strangely
silent and remote. As the Yale latch of the massive door clicked behind me, I seemed to be,
and in fact was, cut off from all the world. A mysterious, sepulchral stillness pervaded the
place, and when I entered the long room I found myself unconsciously treading lightly so as
not to disturb the silence; even as one might on entering some Egyptian tomb-chamber hidden
in the heart of a pyramid.

I halted in the center of the long room and looked about me, and I don't mind confessing that
I felt distinctly creepy. It was not the skeleton of the whale that hung overhead, with its
ample but ungenial smile; it was not the bandy-legged skeleton of the rachitic camel, nor that
of the aurochs, nor those of the apes and jackals and porcupines in the smaller glass case;
nor the skulls that grinned from the case at the end of the room. It was the long row of human
skeletons, each erect and watchful on its little pedestal, that occupied the great wall-case:
a silent, motionless company of fleshless sentinels, standing in easy postures with unchanging,
mirthless grins and seeming to wait for something. That was what disturbed me.

I am not an impressionable man; and, as a medical practitioner, it is needless to say that
mere bones have no terrors for me. The skeleton from which I worked as a student was kept in
my bedroom, and I minded it no more than I minded the plates in "Gray's Anatomy." I could have
slept comfortably in the Hunterian Museum--other circumstances being favorable; and even the
gigantic skeleton of Corporal O'Brian--which graces that collection--with that of his companion,
the quaint little dwarf, thrown in, would not have disturbed my rest in the smallest degree.
But this was different. I had the feeling, as I had had before, that there was something queer
about this museum of Challoner's.

I walked slowly along the great wall-case, looking in at the specimens; and in the dull light,
each seemed to look out at me as I passed with a questioning expression in his shadowy eye-sockets,
as if he would ask, "Do you know who I was?" It made me quite uncomfortable.

There were twenty-five of them in all. Each stood on a small black pedestal on which was painted
in white a number and a date; excepting one at the end, which had a scarlet pedestal and gold
lettering. If Negroes are to assume the responsibility of raising the standards of living among
themselves, the power of intelligent work and leadership toward proper industrial ideals must
be placed in their hands. Economic efficiency depends on intelligence,
skill and thrift.
A formidable fellow he must have been; and even now, the broad, square face grinned out savagely
from the case.

I turned away with something of a shudder. I had not come here to get "the creeps." I had come
for Challoner's journal, or the "Museum Archives" as he called it. The volumes were in the
secret cupboard at the end of the room and I had to take out the movable panel to get at them.
This presented no difficulty. I found the rosettes that moved the catches and had the panel
out in a twinkling. The cupboard was five feet high by four broad and had a well in the bottom
covered by a lid, which I lifted and, to my amazement, found the cavity filled with revolvers,
automatic pistols, life-preservers, knuckle-dusters and other weapons, each having a little
label--bearing a number and a date--tied neatly on it. I shut the lid down rather hastily;
there was something rather sinister in that collection of lethal appliances.

The volumes, seven in number, were on the top shelf, uniformly bound in Russia leather and
labeled, respectively, "Photographs," "Finger-prints," "Catalogue," and four volumes of "Museum
Archives." I was about to reach down the catalogue when my eye fell on the pile of shallow
boxes on the next shelf. I knew what they contained and recalled uncomfortably the strange
impression that their contents had made on me; and yet a sort of fascination led me to take
down the top one--labelled "Series B 5"--and raise the lid. But if those dreadful dolls' heads
had struck me as uncanny when poor Challoner showed them to me, they now seemed positively
appalling. Small as they were--and they were not as large as a woman's fist--they looked so
life-like--or rather, so death-like--that they suggested nothing so much as actual human heads
seen through the wrong end of a telescope. There were five in this box, each in a separate
compartment lined with black velvet and distinguished by a black label with white lettering;
excepting the central one, which rested on scarlet velvet and had a red label inscribed in
gold "13th May, 1909."

I gazed at this tiny head in its scarlet setting with shuddering fascination. It had a hideous
little face; a broad, brutal face of the Tartar type; and the mop of gray-brown hair, so unhuman
in color, and the bristling mustache that stood up like a cat's whiskers, gave it an aspect
half animal, half devilish. I clapped the lid on the box, thrust it back on the shelf, and,
plucking down the first volume of the "Archives," hurried out of the museum.

That night, when I had rounded up the day's work with a good dinner, I retired to my study,
and, drawing an armchair up to the fire, opened the volume. It was a strange document. At first
I was unable to perceive the relevancy of the matter to the title, for it seemed to be a journal
of Challoner's private life; but later I began to see the connection, to realize, as Challoner
had said, that the collection was nothing more than a visible commentary on and illustration
of his daily activities.

The volume opened with an account of the murder of his wife and the circumstances leading up
to it, written with a dry circumstantiality that was to me infinitely pathetic. It was the
forced impassiveness of a strong man whose heart is breaking. There were no comments, no exclamations;
merely a formal recital of facts, exhaustive, literal and precise. I need not quote it, as
it only repeated the story he had told me, but I will commence my extract at the point where
he broke off. The style, as will be seen, is that of a continuous narrative, apparently compiled
from a diary; and, as it proceeds, marking the lapse of time, the original dryness of manner
gives place to one more animated, more in keeping with the temperament of the writer.

"When I had buried my dear wife, I waited with some impatience to see what the police would
do. I had no great expectations. The English police system is more adjusted to offences against
property than to those against the person. Nothing had been stolen, so nothing could be traced;
and the clues were certainly very slight. It soon became evident to me that the authorities
had given the case up. They gave me no hope that the murderer would ever be identified; and,
in fact, it was pretty obvious that they had written the case off as hopeless and ceased to
interest themselves in it.

"Of course I could not accept this view. My wife had been murdered. The murder was without
extenuation. It had been committed lightly to cover a paltry theft. Now, for murder, no restitution
is possible. But there is an appropriate forfeit to be paid; and if the authorities failed
to exact it, then the duty of its exaction devolved upon me. Moreover, a person who thus lightly
commits murder as an incident in his calling is unfit to live in a community of human beings.
It was clearly my duty as a good citizen to see that this dangerous person was eliminated.

"This was well enough in theory, but its realization in practice presented considerable difficulties.
The police had (presumably) searched for this person and failed to find him. How was I, untrained
in methods of detection, to succeed where the experts had been baffled? I considered my resources.
They consisted of a silver teapot and a salver which had been handled by the murderer and which,
together, yielded a complete set of finger-prints, and the wisp of hair that I had taken from
the hand of my murdered wife. It is true that the police also had finger-marked plate and the
remainder of the hair and had been unable to achieve anything by their means; but the value
of finger-impressions for the purposes of identification is not yet appreciated outside scientific
circles.[1] I fetched the teapot and salver from the drawer in which I had secured them and
examined them afresh. The teapot had been held in both hands and bore a full set of prints;
and these were supplemented by the salver. For greater security I photographed the whole set
of the finger-impressions and made platinotype prints which I filed for future reference. Then
I turned my attention to the hair. I had already noticed that it was of a dull gray color,
but now, when I came to look at it more closely, I found the color so peculiar that I took
it to the window and examined it with a lens.

[Footnote 1: The narrative seems to have been written in 1890.--L.W.]

"The result was a most startling discovery. It was ringed hair. The gray appearance was due,
not to the usual mingling of white and dark hairs, but to the fact that each separate hair
was marked by alternate rings of black and white. Now, variegated hairs are common enough in
the lower animals which have a pattern on the fur. The tabby cat furnishes a familiar example.
But in man the condition is infinitely rare; whence it was obvious that, with these hairs and
the finger-prints, I had the means of infallible identification. But identification involves
possession of the person to be identified. There was the difficulty. How was it to be overcome?

"Criminals are vermin. They have the typical characters of vermin; unproductive activity combined
with disproportionate destructiveness. Just as a rat will gnaw his way through a Holbein panel,
or shred up the Vatican Codex to make a nest, so the professional criminal will melt down priceless
medieval plate to sell in lumps for a few shillings. The analogy is perfect.

"Now, how do we deal with vermin--with the rat, for instance?

"Do we go down his burrow and reason with him? Do we strive to elevate his moral outlook? Not
at all. We induce him to come out. And when he has come out, we see to it that he doesn't go
back. In short, we set a trap. And if the rat that we catch is not the one that we wanted,
we set it again.

"Precisely. That was the method.

"My housemaid had absconded at the time of the murder; she was evidently an accomplice of the
murderer. My cook had left on the same day, having conceived a not unnatural horror of the
house. Since then I had made shift with a charwoman. But I should want a housemaid and a cook,
and if I acted judiciously in the matter of references, I might get the sort of persons who
would help my plans. For there are female rats as well as male.

"But there were certain preliminary measures to be taken. My physical condition had to be attended
to. As a young man I was a first-class athlete, and even now I was strong and exceedingly active.
But I must get into training and brush up my wrestling and boxing. Then I must fit up some
burglar alarms, lay in a few little necessaries and provide myself with a suitable appliance
for dealing with the 'catch.'

"This latter I proceeded with at once. To the end of a rod of rhinoceros horn about two feet
long I affixed a knob of lead weighing two pounds. I covered the knob with a thickish layer
of plaited horsehair, and over this fastened a covering of stout leather; and when I had fitted
it with a wrist-strap it looked a really serviceable tool. Its purpose is obvious. It was an
improved form of that very crude appliance, the sand-bag, which footpads use to produce concussion
of the brain without fracturing the skull. I may describe it as a concussor.

"The preliminary measures were proceeding steadily. I had put in a fortnight's attendance at
a gymnasium under the supervision of Professor Schneipp, the Bavarian Hercules; I had practiced
the most approved 'knock-outs' known to my instructor, the famous pugilist, Melchizedeck Cohen
(popularly known as 'Slimy' Cohen); I had given up an hour a day to studying the management
of the concussor with the aid of a punching-ball; the alarms were ready for fixing, and I even
had the address of an undoubtedly disreputable housemaid, when a most unexpected thing happened.
I got a premature bite. A fellow actually walked into the trap without troubling me to set it.

"It befell thus. I had gone to bed rather early and fallen asleep at once, but about one o'clock
I awoke with that unmistakable completeness that heralds a sleepless night. I lit my candle-lamp
and looked round for the book that I had been reading in the evening, and then I remembered
that I had left it in the museum. Now that book had interested me deeply. It contained the
only lucid description that I had met with of the Mundurucú Indians and their curious method
of preserving the severed heads of their enemies; a method by which the head--after removal
of the bones--was shrunk until it was no larger than a man's fist.

"I got up, and, taking my lamp and keys, made my way to the museum wing of the house, which
opened out of the dining-room. I found the book, but, instead of returning immediately, lingered
in the museum, looking about the great room and at the unfinished collection and gloomily recalling
its associations. The museum was a gift from my wife. She had built it and the big laboratory
soon after we were married and many a delightful hour we had spent in it together, arranging
the new specimens in the cases. I did not allow her to work in the evil-smelling laboratory,
but she had a collection of her own, of land and fresh-water shells (which were cleaner to
handle than the bones); and I was pulling out some of the drawers in her cabinet, and, as I
looked over the shells, thinking of the happy days when we rambled by the riverside or over
furzy commons in search of them, when I became aware of faint sounds of movement from the direction
of the dining-room.

"I stepped lightly down the corridor that led to the dining-room and listened. The door of
communication was shut, but through it I could distinctly hear someone moving about and could
occasionally detect the chink of metal. I ran back to the museum--my felt-soled bedroom slippers
made no sound--and, taking the 'concussor' from the drawer in which I had concealed it, thrust
it through the waist-band of my pajamas. Then I crept back to the door.

"The sounds had now ceased. I inferred that the burglar--for he could be none other--had gone
to the pantry, where the plate-chest was kept. On this I turned the Yale latch and softly opened
the door. It is my habit to keep all locks and hinges thoroughly oiled, and consequently the
door opened without a sound. There was no one in the dining-room; but one burner of the gas
was alight and various articles of silver plate were laid on the table, just as they had been
when my wife was murdered. I drew the museum door to--I could not shut it because of the noise
the spring latch would have made--and slipped behind a Japanese screen that stood near the
dining-room door. I had just taken my place when a stealthy footstep approached along the hall.
It entered the room and then there was a faint clink of metal. I peeped cautiously round the
screen and looked on the back of a man who was standing by the table on which he was noiselessly
depositing a number of spoons and forks and a candlestick. Although his back was towards me,
a mirror on the opposite wall gave me a good view of his face; a wooden, expressionless face,
such as I have since learned to associate with the English habitual criminal; the penal servitude
face, in fact.

"He was a careful operator. He turned over each piece thoroughly, weighing it in his hand and
giving especial attention to the hall-mark. And, as I watched him, the thought came into my
mind that, perchance, this was the very wretch who had murdered my wife, come back for the
spoil that he had then had to abandon. Did he come to gather mouse-ear too?

"" No. His wife had sent him over with a pattern of sarcenet for
me to match in London.

"" Early rising and prompt obedience. "And there ensued the inquiries that brought out the history
of what she had seen of the encounter, of the throwing the body into
the vault, full dressed, and of her promise of silence and its reason.

Mr. Cowper did not molest her further except to make her say that she had been five months at
the Court, and had accompanied the late Queen to France.

Then came the power of cross-examination on the part of the prisoner. He made no attempt to
modify what had been said before, but asked in a gentle apologetic voice:" Was that the last
time you ever saw, or thought you saw, Peregrine Oakshott?

"" No. "And here every one in court started and looked curious."

When?

"" The 31st of October 1688, in the evening.

"" Where?

"" Looking from the window in the palace at Whitehall, I saw him, or his likeness, walking along
in the light of the lantern over the great door.

"The appearance at Lambeth was then described, and that in the garden at Archfield House. This
strange cross-examination was soon over, for Charles could not endure to subject her to the
ordeal, while she equally longed to be able to say something that might not damage him, and
dreaded every word she spoke. Moreover, Mr. Cowper looked exceedingly contemptuous, and made
the mention of Whitehall and Lambeth a handle for impressing on the jury that the witness had
been deep in the counsels of the late royal family, and that she
was escorted from St. Germain by the prisoner just before he entered
on foreign service.

One of the servants at Fareham was called upon to testify to the hour
of his young master's return on the fatal day.

It was long past dinner-time, he said. It must have been about three
o'clock.

Charles put in an inquiry as to the condition of his horse." Hard ridden, sir, as I never knew
your Honour bring home Black Bess in such a pickle before.

"After a couple of young men had been called who could speak to some
outbreaks of dislike to poor Peregrine, in which all had shared, the
case for the prosecution was completed.

Cowper, in a speech that would be irregular now, but was permissible then, pointed out that the jealousy,
dislike, and Jacobite proclivities of the Archfield family had been fully made out, that the
coincidence of visits to the castle at that untimely hour had been insufficiently explained,
that the condition of the remains in the vault was quite inconsistent with the evidence of
the witness, Mistress Woodford, unless there were persons waiting below unknown to her, and that
the prisoner had been absent from Fareham from four or five o'clock in the morning till nearly
three in the afternoon.

As to the strange story she had further told, he (Mr. Cowper) was neither superstitious nor philosophic,
but the jury would decide whether conscience and the sense of an awful secret were not sufficient
to conjure up such phantoms, if they were not indeed spiritual, occurring as they did in the
very places and at the very times when the spirit of the unhappy
young man, thus summarily dismissed from the world, his corpse left
in an unblessed den, would be most likely to reappear, haunting those
who felt themselves to be most accountable for his lamentable and
untimely end.

The words evidently told, and it was at a disadvantage that the prisoner rose to speak in his own
defence and to call his witnesses."

My lord, "he said," and gentlemen of the jury, let me first say that I am deeply grieved and
hurt that the name of my poor young wife has been brought into this
matter.

In justice to her who is gone, I must begin by saying that though she was flattered and gratified
by the polite manners that I was too clownish and awkward to emulate, and though I may have sometimes
manifested ill-humour, yet I never for a moment took serious offence nor felt bound to defend
her honour or my own. If I showed displeasure it was because she was fatiguing herself against
warning.

I can say with perfect truth, that when I left home on that unhappy morning, I bore no serious
ill-will to any living creature. I had no political purpose, and never dreamt of taking the
life of any one. I was a heedless youth of nineteen. I shall be able to prove the commission of my wife's
on which this learned gentleman has thought fit to cast a doubt. For the rest, Mistress Anne Woodford
was my sister's friend and playfellow from early childhood. When I entered the castle court
I saw her hurrying into the keep, pursued by Oakshott, whom I knew her to dread and dislike.
I naturally stepped between. Angry words passed. He challenged my right to interfere, and in a passion
drew upon me. Though I was the taller and stronger, I knew him to be proud of his skill in
fencing, and perhaps I may therefore have pressed him the harder, and the dislike I acknowledge
made me drive home my sword.

But I was free from all murderous intention up to that moment. In my inexperience I had no
doubt but that he was dead, and in a terror and confusion which I regret heartily, I threw him
into the vault, and for the sake of my wife and mother bound Miss Woodford to secrecy. I mounted
my horse, and scarcely knowing what I did, rode till I found it ready to drop. I asked for rest
for it in the first wayside public-house I came to. I lay down meanwhile among some bushes
adjoining, and there waited till my horse could take me home again. I believe it was at the White Horse,
near Bishops Waltham, but the place has changed hands since that
time, so that I can only prove my words, as you have heard, by the
state of my horse when I came home.

For the condition of the remains in the vault I cannot account; I never touched the poor fellow
after throwing him there. My wife died a few hours after my return home, where I remained for
a week, nor did I suggest flight, though I gladly availed myself of my father's suggestion of sending
me abroad with a tutor. Let me add, to remove misconception, that I visited Paris because my
tutor, the Reverend George Fellowes, one of the Fellows of Magdalen College expelled by the
late King, and now Rector of Portchester, had been asked to provide for Miss Woodford's return
to her home, and he is here to testify that I never had any concern with politics. I did indeed
accompany him to St. Germain, but merely to find the young gentlewoman, and in the absence of
the late King and Queen, nor did I hold intercourse with any other person connected with their
Court. After escorting her to Ostend, I went to Hungary to serve in the army of our ally, the
Emperor, against the Turks, the enemies of all Christians.

After a severe wound, I have come home, knowing nothing of conspiracies, and I was taken by
surprise on arriving here at Winchester at finding that my cousin was on his trial for the unfortunate
deed into which I was betrayed by haste and passion, but entirely without premeditation or intent
to do more than to defend the young lady. So that I plead that my crime does not amount to murder
from malicious intent; and likewise, that those who charge me with the actual death of Peregrine
Oakshott should prove him to be dead.

"Charles's first witness was Mrs. Lang, his late wife's'own woman,'who spared him many questions
by garrulously declaring'what a work'poor little Madam had made about the rose-coloured sarcenet, causing
the pattern to be searched out as soon as she came home from the bonfire, and how she had'gone on at'her
husband till he promised to give it to Mistress Anne, and how he had been astir at four o'clock
in the morning, and had called to her (Mrs. Lang) to look to her mistress, who might perhaps
get some sleep now that she had her will and hounded him out to go over to Portchester about that silk.
Nothing was asked of this witness by the prosecution except the time
of Mr. Archfield's return.

The question of jealousy was passed over. Of the pond apparition nothing was said. Anne had told
Charles of it, but no one could have proved its identity but Sedley,
and his share in it was too painful to be brought forward.

Three other ghost seers were brought forward: Mrs. Fellowes's maid, the sentry, and the sexton;
but only the sexton had ever seen Master Perry alive, and he would not swear to more than that it was
something in his likeness; the sentry was already bound to declare
it something unsubstantial; and the maid was easily persuaded into declaring
that she did not know what she had seen or whether she had seen anything.
There only remained Mr. Fellowes to bear witness of his pupil's entire
innocence of political intrigues, together with a voluntary testimony
addressed to the court, that the youth had always appeared to him
a well-disposed but hitherto boyish lad, suddenly sobered and rendered
thoughtful by a shock that had changed the tenor of his mind.

Mr. Baron Hatsel summed up in his dreary vacillating way. He told the gentlemen of the jury that
young men would be young men, especially where pretty wenches were concerned, and that all knew
that there was bitterness where Whig and Tory were living nigh together. Then he went over the evidence,
at first in a tone favourable to the encounter having been almost
accidental, and the stroke an act of passion.

But he then added, it was strange, and he did not know what to think of these young sparks
and the young gentlewoman all meeting in a lonely place when honest folks were abed, and the hiding
in the vault, and the state of the clothes were strange matters scarce
agreeing with what either prisoner or witness said.

It looked only too like part of a plot of which some one should make a clean breast. On the other
hand, the prisoner was a fine young gentleman, an only son, and had
been fighting the Turks, though it would have been better to have
fought the French among his own countrymen.

He had come ingenuously forward to deliver his cousin, and a deliberate
murderer was not wont to be so generous, though may be he expected to get
off easily on this same plea of misadventure. If it was misadventure,
why did he not try to do something for the deceased, or wait to see
whether he breathed before throwing him into this same pit? though,
to be sure, a lad might be inexperienced.

For the rest, as to these same sights of the deceased or his likeness,
he (the judge) was no believer in ghosts, though he would not say
there were no such things, and the gentlemen of the jury must decide
whether it was more likely the poor youth was playing pranks in the
body, or whether he were haunting in the spirit those who had most
to do with his untimely end.

This was the purport, or rather the no-purport, of the charge. The jury were absent for a very
short time, and as it leaked out afterwards, their intelligence did not rise above the idea that the
young gentleman was thick with they Frenchies who wanted to bring in
murder and popery, warming-pans and wooden shoes. He called stoning
poultry a trifle, so of what was he not capable?

Of course he spited the poor young chap, and how could the fact be denied when the poor ghost
had come back to ask for his blood? So the awful suspense ended with'Guilty, my Lord.'" Of murder
or manslaughter?

"" Of murder. "The prisoner stood as no doubt he had faced Turkish batteries. The judge asked
the customary question whether he had any reason to plead why he should not be condemned to
death." No, my lord. I am guilty of shedding Peregrine Oakshott's blood, and though I declare
before God and man that I had no such purpose, and it was done in
the heat of an undesigned struggle, I hated him enough to render
the sentence no unjust one.

I trust that God will pardon me, if man does not.

"The gentlemen around drew the poor old father out of the court so as not to hear the final sentence,
and Anne, half stunned, was taken away by her uncle, and put into the
same carriage with him. The old man held her hands closely and could
not speak, but she found voice," Sir, sir, do not give up hope.

God will save him. I know what I can do. I will go to Princess Anne. She is friendly with the King
now. She will bring me to tell him all. "Hurriedly she spoke, her object, as it seemed to be
that of every one, to keep up such hope and encouragement as to drown
the terrible sense of the actual upshot of the trial.

The room at the George was full in a moment of friends declaring
that all would go well in the end, and consulting what to do.

Neither Sir Philip nor Dr. Woodford could be available, as their
refusal to take the oaths to King William made them marked men.

The former could only write to the Imperial Ambassador, beseeching
him to claim the prisoner as an officer of the Empire, though it was
doubtful whether this would be allowed in the case of an Englishman
born.

Mr. Fellowes undertook to be the bearer of the letter, and to do
his best through Archbishop Tenison to let the King know the true
bearings of the case.

Almost in pity, to spare Anne the misery of helpless waiting, Dr. Woodford consented to let
her go under his escort, starting very early the next morning, since
the King might immediately set off for the army in Holland, and the
space was brief between condemnation and execution.

Sir Edmund proposed to hurry to Carisbrooke Castle, being happily on good terms with that fiery
personage, Lord Cutts, the governor of the Isle of Wight as well as a favoured general of the
King, whose intercession might do more than Princess Anne's. Moreover, a message came from old Mr.
Cromwell, begging to see Sir Edmund.

It was on behalf of Major Oakshott, who entreated that Sir Philip might be assured of his own great
regret at the prosecution and the result, and his entire belief that the provocation came from
his unhappy son. Both he and Richard Cromwell were having a petition for pardon drawn up,
which Sir Henry Mildmay and almost all the leading gentlemen of Hampshire of both parties were sure to
sign, while the sheriff would defer the execution as long as possible.

Pardons, especially in cases of duelling, had been marketable articles
in the last reigns, and there could not but be a sigh for such conveniences.
Sir Philip wanted to go at once to the jail, which was very near
the inn, but consented on strong persuasion to let his son-in-law
precede him.

Anne longed for a few moments to herself, but durst not leave the poor old man, who sat holding
her hand, and at each interval of silence saying how this would kill the boy's mother, or something
equally desponding, so that she had to talk almost at random of the various gleams of hope, and
even to describe how the little Duke of Gloucester might be told of Philip and sent to the
King, who was known to be very fond of him. It was a great comfort
when Dr. Woodford came and offered to pray with them.

By and by Sir Edmund returned, having been making arrangements for Charles's comfort. Ordinary prisoners
were heaped together and miserably treated, but money could do something, and by application to
the High Sheriff, permission had been secured for Charles to occupy a private room, on a heavy
fee to the jailor, and for his friends to have access to him, besides other necessaries, purchased
at more than their weight in gold.

Sir Edmund brought word that Charles was in good heart; sent love and duty to his father, whom
he would welcome with all his soul, but that as Miss Woodford was--
in her love and bravery-- going so soon to London, he prayed that she
might be his first visitor that evening. There was little more to do
than to cross the street, and Sir Edmund hurried her through the
flagged and dirty yard, and the dim, foul hall, filled with fumes
of smoke and beer, where melancholy debtors held out their hands,
idle scapegraces laughed, heavy degraded faces scowled, and evil sounds
were heard, up the stairs to a nail-studded door, where Anne shuddered
to hear the heavy key turned by the coarse, rude-looking warder, only
withheld from insolence by the presence of a magistrate.

Her escort tarried outside, and she saw Charles, his rush-light candle gleaming on his gold lace
as he wrote a letter to the ambassador to be forwarded by his father. He sprang up with outstretched
arms and an eager smile." My brave sweetheart! how nobly you have done. Truth and trust. It
did my heart good to hear you. "Her head was on his shoulder. She
wanted to speak, but could not without loosing the flood of tears."
Faith entire, "he went on;" and you are still striving for me.

"" Princess Anne is-- "she began, then the choking came." True! "he said." Come, do not expect
the worst. I have not made up my mind to that! If the ambassador will stir, the King will not
be disobliging, though it will probably not be a free pardon, but Hungary for some years to come--
and you are coming with me.

"" If you will have one who might be-- may have been-- your death. Oh, every word I said seemed
to me stabbing you; "and the tears would come now." No such thing! They only showed how true my love
is to God and me, and made my heart swell with pride to hear her so cheering me through all. "His strength
seemed to allow her to break down. She had all along had to bear up the spirits of Sir Philip and
Lady Archfield, and though she had struggled for composure, the finding that she had in him a
comforter and support set the pent-up tears flowing fast, as he held
her close."

Oh, I did not mean to vex you thus! "she said." Vex! no indeed!'Tis
something to be wept for.

But cheer up, Anne mine. I have often been in far worse plights than this, when I have ridden
up in the face of eight big Turkish guns. The balls went over my head then, by God's good mercy. Why
not the same now? Ay! and I was ready to give all I had to any one who would have put a pistol to my head
and got me out of my misery, jolting along on the way to the Iron Gates. Yet here I am! Maybe
the Almighty brought me back to save poor Sedley, and clear my own
conscience, knowing well that though it does not look so, it is better for
me to die thus than the other way. No, no;'tis ten to one that you and
the rest of you will get me off.

I only meant to show you that supposing it fails, I shall only feel it my due, and much better for me
than if I had died out there with it unconfessed. I shall try to get them all to feel it so, and, after
all, now the whole is out, my heart feels lighter than it has done these
seven years. And if I could only believe that poor fellow alive, I could
almost die content, though that sounds strange. It will quiet his poor
restless spirit any way. "
I brought the burglar into the laboratory and deposited him in the tank, shutting the air-tight
lid and securing it with a padlock. For further security I locked the cupboard, and, when I
had washed the floor of the lobby and dried it with methylated spirit, all traces of the previous
night's activities were obliterated. If the police wanted to look over the museum and laboratory,
they were now quite at liberty to do so.

"I have mentioned that, during the actual capture of this burglar, I seemed to develop an entirely
alien personality. But the change was only temporary, and I had now fully recovered my normal
temperament, which is that of a careful, methodical and eminently cautious man. Hence, as I
took my breakfast and planned out my procedure, an important fact made itself evident. I should
presently have in my museum a human skeleton which I should have acquired in a manner not recognized
by social conventions or even by law. Now, if I could place myself in a position to account
for that skeleton in a simple and ordinary way, it might, in the future, save inconvenient
explanations.

"I decided to take the necessary measures without delay, and accordingly, after a rather tedious
interview with the detective-inspector (whom I showed over the entire house, including the
museum and laboratory), I took a cab to Great St. Andrew Street, Seven Dials, where resided
a well-known dealer in osteology. I did not, of course, inform him that I had come to buy an
understudy for a deceased burglar. I merely asked for an articulated skeleton, to stand and
not to hang (hanging involves an unsightly suspension ring attached to the skull). I looked
over his stock with a steel measuring-tape in my hand, for a skeleton of about the right size--sixty-three
inches--but I did not mention that size was a special object. I told him that I wished for
one that would illustrate racial characters, at which he smiled--as well he might, knowing
that his skeletons were mostly built up of assorted bones of unknown origin.

"I selected a suitable skeleton, paid for it, (five pounds) and took care to have a properly
drawn invoice, describing the goods and duly dated and receipted. I did not take my purchase
away with me; but it arrived the same day, in a funeral box, which the detective-inspector,
who happened to be in the house at the time, kindly assisted me to unpack.

"My next proceeding was to take a set of photographs of the deceased, including three views
of the face, a separate photograph of each ear, and two aspects of the hands. I also took a
complete set of finger-prints. Then I was ready to commence operations in earnest."

The rest of Challoner's narrative relating to Number One is of a highly technical character
and not very well suited to the taste of lay readers. The final result will be understood by
the following quotation from the museum catalogue:

"Specimens Illustrating Criminal Anthropology.

"Series A. Osteology.

"1. Skeleton of burglar, aged 37. [symbol: male]. Height 63 inches. (James Archer.)

"This specimen was of English parentage, was a professional burglar, a confirmed recidivist,
and--since he habitually carried firearms--a potential homicide. His general intelligence appears
to have been of a low order, his manual skill very imperfect (he was a gas-fitter by trade
but never regularly employed). He was nearly illiterate and occasionally but not chronically
alcoholic.

"Cranial capacity 1594 cc. Cephalic index 76.8.

"For finger-prints see Album D 1, p. 1. For facial characters see Album E 1, pp. 1, 2 and 3,
and Series B (dry, reduced preparations). Number 1."

       *       *       *       *       *

I closed the two volumes--the Catalogue and the Archives--and meditated on the amazing story
that they told in their unemotional, matter-of-fact style. Was poor Challoner mad? Had he an
insane obsession on the subject of crime and criminals? Or was he, perchance, abnormally sane,
if I may use the expression? That his outlook was not as other men's was obvious. Was it a
rational outlook or that of a lunatic?

I cannot answer the question. Perhaps a further study of his Archives may throw some fresh
light on it.

III

THE HOUSEMAID'S FOLLOWERS

The contrast in effect between suspicion and certainty is very curious to observe. When I had
walked through the private museum of my poor friend Challoner and had looked at the large collection
of human skeletons that it contained, a suspicion that there was something queer about those
skeletons had made me quite uncomfortable. Now, after reading his first narrative, I knew all
about them. They were the relics of criminals whom he had taken red-handed and preserved for
the instruction of posterity. Thus were my utmost suspicions verified, and yet, strange as
it may seem, with the advent of certainty, my horror of them vanished. Even the hideous little
doll-like heads induced but a passing shudder. Vague, half superstitious awe gave place to
scientific interest.

I took an early opportunity of renewing my acquaintance with the astonishing and gruesome "Museum
Archives." The second narrative was headed "Anthropological Series, 2, 3 and 4." It exhibited
the same singular outlook as the first, showing that to Challoner the criminal had not appeared
to be a human being at all, but merely a sub-human form, anatomically similar to man.

"The acquisition of Specimen Number One," it began, "gave me considerable occupation, both
bodily and mental. As I labored from day to day rendering the osseous framework of the late
James Archer fit for exhibition in a museum case, I reflected on the future to which recent
events had committed me. I had been, as it were, swept away on the tide of circumstance. The
death of this person had occurred by an inadvertence, and accident had thrown on me the onus
of disposing of the remains. Atlanta's foundation reaches back to the forties, and far-seeing
men recognized it then as the place of promise, destined to be an
important railroad-center and a seat of commerce.

This conception of the new city had been accepted as a true one when it was destroyed by fire,
and since its new birth in reconstruction days the old spirit arose and lighted the new path
of Atlanta to a greater destiny.

The capital of the state was brought here from Milledgeville when the new city was hardly out
of the ashes of war, and this gave a great impetus to its growth, which was further insured in 1877,
when the people of Georgia voted to make Atlanta their capital.

Its rapidly developing business and manufactures were brought to the attention of the whole country
by the Cotton Exposition of 1881 which was a point of departure for the tremendous development of the
Southeastern States during the decade between 1880 and 1890. This development found a splendid
illustration in the great Cotton States and International Exposition
of 1895.

The rapidity of the growth of Atlanta is illustrated by the fact that, since it was blotted from
the map, the city has spread over twelve square miles of ground. Starting with no business
in 1865, it received in 1903 four-tenths of the freight delivered
in Georgia, and its post office receipts were four-tenths of those
of the State.

Thirty-nine years ago there was hardly a dollar to turn a trade; within the year just closed the
bank clearings aggregated$ 115,000,000. At the beginning of this period there were only a
few stragglers remaining in the wake of fire and sword. To-day there is a great city of over 105,000
people, the business headquarters of 125,000, with a floating population
of many thousands more.

From bare ground covered with ashes and ruins in 1865, the city has been built up to a value of$
59,595,332, consisting largely of solid masses of brick and mortar, stone and steel, which go
to make up a magnificent array of handsome business edifices. The number of houses has increased
from 300 to 22,600.

The question, wherefore Atlanta? naturally arises, for communities are not effects without causes.
Atlanta is the result of a combination of advantages, on a commanding geographical location,
turned to the best account by a spirit of transcendent energy, which surmounts all obstacles
and builds even on disaster the fabric of success. The growth of this unconquerable spirit has
been promoted by a unity of purpose which has prevented the domination of factions. Whatever
local interests may clash, the good of Atlanta is always a rallying cry. The Atlanta spirit, which
has accomplished so much in the upbuilding of the city itself, is happily contagious, and has
much to do with making Georgia the Empire State of the South. The spirit of new life has spread
from this to other Southern States which are the most active in the
development of their resources, and the spirit of the Southeast is
the spirit of Atlanta.

For this moral and material eminence Atlanta is fortunately situated
on a ridge which divides the watershed of the Atlantic from that of
the Gulf, and at a point where the natural barrier of the Appalachian
chain is broken by great gaps in the mountains.

This is the natural point of intersection for railway lines from
the West with lines from the East.

This
geographical vantage ground is accompanied by a topographical eminence, from which the great
climatic advantages of Atlanta are derived. More than 1,000 feet above sea-level at its lowest
point, and from eleven to twelve hundred at other places, Atlanta enjoys a cool, bracing atmosphere,
with breezes that blow over the foot-hills of the Blue Ridge. The exhilarating air is a kind
of natural tonic, so different from that of the coast and Gulf regions that an inhabitant
of the low countries, coming to Atlanta during the heated term, feels
a stimulus as if he had been drinking great draughts of aerial champagne.

The rolling surface of the country, which slopes in almost every direction from the city affords
easy drainage and keeps the surrounding region free from malaria.

Atlanta's public buildings typify the solid character of her institutions.

Most conspicuous among them is the State capitol, which was erected at a cost of$ 1,000,000. This
stately structure, the hotels, office buildings, theaters, churches, the custom-house, the county
court-house, and other public edifices, make up an aggregate of ten millions invested in public
buildings.

Outside of public buildings, the architecture of Atlanta is of a pleasing character and has steadily
improved during the past thirty years. Few cities in any part of the United States can show more
attractive residence streets or architectural designs indicating more culture and good taste.
Peachtree Street, the principal one for residences, has a number of elegant homes which would
be ornaments to any city.

Atlanta is a city of homes, and this is apparent not only in the appearance of the houses,
but in the statistics of the United States census, by which Atlanta is credited with a larger
percentage of home-owners than any city of its size in the Southern
States.

The water-supply for domestic and manufacturing purposes and for sanitary use is hardly equaled
in any city of Atlanta's size, and the rates per thousand gallons for families or for manufacturing
purposes are merely nominal, and probably lower than any on record.

Conditions in Atlanta are highly favorable to manufacturing industries, and this is attested
by the great variety of articles made here. There were in 1900 395 establishments, employing
over 9,000 operatives at good wages, and pouring into the channels of trade an annual pay-roll
of$ 3,100,000. The value of the raw material consumed was more than$
8,000,000 and the product between sixteen and seventeen millions.

Since then the product has increased to$ 27,000,000 and the number
of wage earners to 14,000.

The
manufacturers of Atlanta in their variety have a guaranty of stability not to be found in those of
any city where industry is confined to one family, as of iron or cotton, however important that
may be, and the extent of this variety is to some degree indicated in the chapter on this
subject. Among the articles made are many specialties, for which there is a demand in almost
every State in the Union, and concerns making them have enjoyed prosperity through a long series
of years.

The trade of Atlanta covers more or less all of the States between the Ohio and Potomac rivers,
the Gulf, the Atlantic ocean and the Mississippi River, and in some lines extends to the far
Southwestern States and into Mexico, while in a few it covers the entire country. The tendency
of the jobbing trade of the Southeast is to concentrate in Atlanta, and little by little the
business of other centers gravitates to this city.

Atlanta's commanding geographical and topographical situation was, at the outset, one of the causes
which led to the development of a great railroad center, at which powerful systems from the
East, the West and the Southeast regularly compete. As a distributing point Atlanta enjoys
facilities hardly equaled elsewhere in the Southeastern States, and as an accessible place
of rendezvous for all kinds of organizations and interests, it is a favorite, and has come to be known
as the Convention City.

Atlanta's financial institutions are of the most solid character.

Atlanta is the third city in the United States in the amount of insurance written and reported
to agencies.

It is the Southern headquarters for a number of fire and life insurance companies, and agencies
of old-line and every other type of insurance are numerous.

The educational facilities of Atlanta are fully treated in a separate
chapter, in which it appears that this city is abreast of the times
in this as in other respects.

Atlanta early established a system of public schools, and before almost any city in the South,
turned its attention to technical education.

The Technological School was established by the State of Georgia upon inducements offered by
the city of Atlanta, which bore half of the cost of the original plant, and contributes regularly
to the support of the institution. There is ample opportunity here for technical instruction
of other kinds, and Atlanta has three medical colleges, whose attendance averages 600, to say nothing
of the students of the dental colleges.

Technical instruction in business methods is not neglected, and several large and flourishing business
colleges have maintained themselves here for many years.

The religious and social atmosphere of Atlanta is wholesome and invigorating.

It is a city of churches and the home of church-going people, and the community is honey-combed
with fraternal organizations.

The social intercourse of the people, as well as the facility for doing business, is greatly aided
by an ideal system of rapid transit, not only from the residence and suburban sections to the center,
but from one residence portion to another. The neighborly spirit is enhanced by the nearness
thus artificially created.

With all these advantages, and many which appear more fully in subsequent chapters. Atlanta
has a wholesome and inspiring public spirit which never fails to respond when the interests of
the city are at stake. This is perhaps the most distinctive thing
about Atlanta.

The New Atlanta.

Population, Area and Government.

Atlanta's population is estimated at 105,600. By the census of 1900 it was 89,872. The census of
1880 gave Atlanta a population of 39,000, and by the city assessment
of the next year the real estate was valued at$ 14,721,883, and the
personal property at$ 7,474,258.

By 1890 the population had grown to 65,000 and real estate was valued at$ 39,729,894. In the
same period personal property grew to$ 11,906,605. The decade between 1880 and 1890 was a
period during which Atlanta made remarkable advance, but during the great depression through
which the whole country has passed since 1890 the progress of this city has been astonishing.
In spite of a somewhat lower scale of valuation for suburban real estate, the assessor's report
for 1903 showed realty valued at$ 49,728,034, and personalty$ 13,628,201. This value was created
in thirty-nine years, for Atlanta came out of the Civil War naked
and desolate.

By census taken in 1900 the population of Atlanta, by wards, was
found to be as follows: First Ward 15,596 Second Ward 14,628 Third
Ward 12,943 Fourth Ward 17,072 Fifth Ward 12,415 Sixth Ward 14,754
Seventh Ward 2,464------ Total 89,872 Since then the population has
increased to 105,600.

Area and Expansion. Atlanta is a city of magnificent distances, covering about eleven square miles. With
abundance of room and fresh air, the circular form of the city makes
it compact, and the residence portions are, as a rule, equidistant
from the business center.

The corporate line is described by a radius of a mile and three-quarters.

In two places this circle is expanded to take in suburban communities
which had been formed with irregular boundaries before the circular
corporation line reached them.

These are Inman Park and West End, which extend from half a mile to a mile beyond the circle which
elsewhere forms the corporate limits. Atlanta is situated on rolling ground,
which gives every facility for drainage and contributes materially to the
effectiveness of the elaborate system of sewers.

This rolling country extends in every direction, and suburban communities
are rapidly extending.

The electric lines reach out for six or eight miles on all sides of the
city, and afford quick and cheap access for the outlying towns. As
a result of this elaborate system of rapid transit, there has been
a remarkable expansion of the city within the past ten years, and
the pressure on the center has been greatly relieved.

It is estimated that the suburban trains and street-car systems
of Atlanta bring in and carry out 30,000 people a day. City Government.

The city government of Atlanta is administered by a Mayor and General
Council and Executive Boards.

The legislative body is composed of councilmen from the different wards,
elected by the whole city, and aldermen who are elected in a like manner.
The aldermen and councilmen vote separately on matters involving
the expenditure of money, and the concurrence of both bodies is necessary
to an appropriation.

The Mayor has the usual veto power. The tax rate is one and a quarter per cent. and the ratio of
assessment to real value of property is about sixty per cent. The assessed value of real and personal
property is$ 63,356,235. The city owns property valued at eleven millions, and has a bonded debt
of$ 3,481,500. Deducting the Sinking Fund of$ 274,997.68, the net debt is$ 3,206,502.32. There
is no floating debt, and the bonded debt is limited by the State
Constitution to seven per cent. on the taxable value of the property.

The net debt is therefore$ 1,000,000 under the limit. The Charter requires the Mayor and General
Council to carry over a balance of$ 175,000 in cash from year to
year.

This keeps the Treasury in good condition and the city is able to
float three and one-half per cent. bonds at par and above.

There is a Sinking Fund Commission, which was created by a special act of the Legislature,
and the Mayor and General Council are required to set aside each year from the revenues of the
city an amount sufficient to retire the bonded debt within thirty years. The expenditures of the city
for the year 1903 were$ 1,646,888.49. In the same period, the revenues and other receipts, including
bonds, the proceeds of which were expended, were$ 2,036,548.32.

The difference is accounted for by a balance carried over from the previous year. Police. Atlanta
has a fine Police Department, divided into three watches of eight
hours each.

It has valuable auxiliaries in the mounted men and the bicycle corps,
numbering forty men.

There is a fine central station, which cost$ 100,000, and a Police
signal system with telephone connections.

The expenditures of the Department during 1903 amounted to$ 151,151.23. Fire Protection. Atlanta
has a model Fire Department, well equipped with modern apparatus, and supplied with water
at fire pressure from the pumping-station of the waterworks.

In 1903 the Department cost$ 123,235.00; the number of fires was 502 and the value of buildings
and contents at risk$ 3,070,777.

The damage was$ 142,050. The average fire loss for eighteen years was$ 123,647. Sanitary Department.
Atlanta spent$ 109,023.54 on sanitation in 1903, and about 250 men
were employed under the Board of Health in keeping the city clean.

There are the usual precautions in infectious and contagious diseases. The sewer-system of the
city was constructed on a plan designed by Rudolph Hering, of New
York. Mortuary Record. The deaths from diseases in Atlanta during 1903
were 1,941, of which 926 were of white people and 1,015 of colored.

The population within the corporate limits in the census year was 89,872. In 1903 it was estimated
by the Sanitary Department at 110,000. This makes the rate of mortality 17.64. Of the population in 1903,
it is estimated that 44,000 were colored and 66,000 were white, which
makes the rate of mortality 23.06 for colored and 14.03 for white.

Waterworks.
The Waterworks Department of Atlanta has one of the best plants
in the country and furnishes pure water at the nominal price of ten
cents per thousand gallons for domestic consumption.

Liberal rates are made
to manufacturers, and even at the low prices charged, the Department pays
a handsome net revenue to the city. The works have a daily pumping capacity
of 35,000,000 gallons, and the actual consumption in 1903 was 9,136,277
gallons per day.

The supply comes from the Chattahoochee River, above the city, and
above the mouth of Peachtree Creek.

The river flows down from the mountain
section, which is sparsely settled, and so far the supply is satisfactory.
The water passes through a settling basin, after which it is filtered, and
comes to the city as clear as crystal. Sewers. In addition to the amount
disbursed by the Sanitary Department, the city spent$ 55,765.43 the
same year in constructing sewers.

Streets. During
1903 Atlanta spent$ 70,913.08 on streets.

Since 1880 the city has spent$ 3,827,171 on streets, sewers and sidewalks.

There are
64.34 miles of paved streets, 233.04 miles of paved sidewalks, and 106.21
miles of sewers. There are seven miles of asphalt streets and several
miles of vitrified brick. The rest is paved with granite blocks, chert and
macadam. Again I was possessed by a strange, savage playfulness like that which impels
a cat or leopard to toy daintily and tenderly with its prey for a while before the final scrunch.

"We remained thus motionless for more than half a minute in a silence broken only by his blasphemous
mutterings. Then, quite suddenly, he stood up and began to flash his lantern on the stairs
and about the hall until at length its light fell full on my face which was within a foot of
his own. And at that apparition he uttered a most singular cry, like that of a young goat,
and started back. Another moment and he would have raised his pistol arm, but I had foreseen
this and was beforehand with him. Even as his hand rose, the concussor struck the outer side
of his arm, between the shoulder and the elbow, on the exact spot where the musculo-spiral
nerve turns round the bone. The effect was most interesting. The sudden nerve stimulus produced
an equally sudden contraction of the extensors. The forearm straightened with a jerk, the fingers
shot out straight and the released revolver flew clattering along the hall floor.

"Anatomy has its uses even in a midnight scuffle.

"The suddenness of my appearance and the promptness of my action paralyzed him completely.
He stared at me in abject terror and gibbered inarticulately. Only for a few moments, however.
Then he turned and darted towards the street door.

"But I did not mean to let him escape. In a twinkling I was after him and had him by the collar.
He uttered a savage snarl and dropped the lamp on the mat to free his hands; and, as the spring
switch was released, the light went out, leaving us in total darkness. Now that he was at bay,
he struggled furiously, and I could hear him snorting and cursing as he wriggled in my grasp.
I had to drop the concussor that I might hold him with both hands, and it was well that I did,
for he suddenly got one hand free and struck. It was a vicious blow and had it not been partly
stopped by my elbow the adventure would have ended very differently, for I felt the point of
a knife sweep across my chest, ripping open my pajama jacket and making a quite unpleasant
little flesh-wound. On this I gripped him round the chest, pinioning both his arms as well
as I could and trying to get possession of the knife, while he made frantic struggles to aim
another blow.

"So, for awhile we remained locked in a deadly embrace, swaying to and fro, and each straining
for the momentary advantage that would have brought the affair to a finish. The end came unexpectedly.

"One of us tripped on the edge of the mat and we both came down with a crash, he underneath
and face downwards. As we fell, he uttered a sharp cry and began to struggle in a curious,
convulsive fashion; but after a time he grew quieter and at last lay quite still and silent.

"At first I took this for a ruse to put me off my guard, and held on more firmly than ever;
but presently a characteristic limpness of his limbs suggested a new idea. Gradually and cautiously
I relaxed my hold, and, as he still did not move, I felt about on the mat for the lamp; and
when I had found it and pushed over the switch I threw its light on him.

"He was perfectly motionless and did not appear to be breathing. I turned him over and then
saw that it was as I had suspected. He had held the knife ready for a second blow when I had
pinioned him. He was still grasping it so when we fell, and the point had entered his own chest
near the middle line, between the fourth and fifth ribs, and had been driven in up to the very
haft by the force of the fall. He must have died almost instantaneously.

"I stood up and listened. The place was as silent as the grave; a remarkably apt comparison,
by the way. The pistol shots had apparently not been heard by the police, so there was no fear
of interruption from that quarter; and as for the maids they were very carefully keeping out
of harm's way.

"Still, there was a good deal to do, and not so very much time to do it in. It was now getting
on for three o'clock and the sun would be up by four. Daylight would bring the maids down and
everything must be clear before they made their appearance.

"I wasted no time. One by one, I conveyed the bodies to the laboratory and deposited them in
the tank, the accommodation of which was barely equal to the occasion. The sudden death of
the first man had rather puzzled me, but when I lifted him the explanation was obvious enough.
The heavy blow, catching the head obliquely, had dislocated the neck. So the concussor was
not such a very harmless implement after all.

"The slight traces left in transporting the material to the laboratory, I obliterated with
great care, excepting the last man's knife, which I left on the mat. Then I changed my pajamas,
putting the blood-stained suit to soak in the laboratory, strapped up my wound, put on a dressing-gown,
opened the street door and shut it rather noisily and ascended with a candle to the upper floor.

"The housemaid's bedroom door was open and the room empty. I tapped at the cook's door and
elicited a faint scream.

"'Who's that?' a shaky voice demanded.

"'It is I,' was my answer--a stupid answer, by the way, but, of course, they knew my voice.
The door opened and the two women appeared, fully dressed but rather disheveled and both very pale.

"'Is anything the matter, sir?' the housemaid asked.

"'Yes,' I replied. 'I think there has been a burglary. I woke in the night and thought I heard
a pistol-shot, but, putting it down to a dream, I went to sleep again. Did either of you hear
anything?'

"'I thought I heard a pistol go off, sir,' said the cook, 'and so did Susan. That's why she
came in here.'

"'Ah!' said I, 'then it was not a dream. Then just now I distinctly heard the street door shut,
so I went down and found the gas alight in the dining-room and the safe open.'

"'Lor', sir!' exclaimed Susan, 'I hope nothing's been took.' (She spoke exceedingly badly for
a good-class housemaid.)

"'That,' said I, 'is what I wish you to find out. Perhaps you will come down and take a look
round. There is no one about now.'

"On this they came down with alacrity, each provided with a candle, all agog, no doubt, to
see what success their friends had had. The first trace of the intruders was a large blood-stain
at the foot of the stairs, at which Susan shied like a horse. There was another stain near
the street door, and there was the burglar's knife on the mat, which the cook picked up and
then dropped with a faint scream. I examined it and discovered the letters 'G.B.' cut on the
handle.

"'It looks,' I remarked, 'as if the burglars had quarreled. However, that is none of our business.
Let us see what has happened to the safe.'

"We went into the dining-room and the two women looked eagerly at the open safe; but though
they both repeated the hope that 'nothing had been took,' they could hardly conceal their disappointment
when they saw that the contents were intact. I examined the roughly-made false key without
comment but with a significant glance at them which I think they understood; and I overhauled
a couple of large carpet bags, neither of which contained anything but the outfit of appliances
for the raid.

"'I suppose I ought to communicate with the police,' said I (without the slightest intention
of doing anything of the kind).

"'I don't see what good that would do, sir,' said Susan. 'The men is gone and nothing hasn't
been took. The police would only come in and turn the place upside down and take up your time
for nothing.'

"Thus Susan Slodger, with a vivid consciousness of the false key, made exactly the suggestion
that I desired. Of course it would never do to have the police in the house again so soon.
I affected to be deeply impressed by her sagacity and in the end decided to 'let sleeping dogs
lie.' Only Susan did not realize how exceedingly soundly they slept.

"It was necessary for me to visit the osteological dealer in the course of the morning to obtain
three suitable skeletons as understudies according to my plan. This was quite indispensable.
The dealer's receipt and invoice for three human skeletons was my passport of safety. But I
regretted the necessity. For it was certain that as soon as I was out of the house one of these
hussies would run off to make inquiries about her friends; and when it was found that the burglars
were missing, there might be trouble. You can never calculate the actions of women. I did not
suppose that either of them was capable of breaking into the laboratory. But still, one or
both of them might. And if they did, the fat would be in the fire with a vengeance.

"However, it had to be done, and accordingly I set forth after breakfast with a spring tape
and a note of the measurements in my pocket. Fortunately the dealer had just received a large
consignment of skeletons from Germany (Heaven alone knows whence these German exporters obtain
their supply), so I had an ample number to select from; and as they ran rather small--I suspect
they were mostly Frenchmen--I had no difficulty in matching my specimens, which, as is usual
with criminals, were all below the average stature.

"On my return I found that the housemaid was out, 'doing some shopping,' the cook explained.
But she returned shortly, and as soon as I saw her I knew that she had been making 'kind inquiries.'
Her manner was most peculiar, and so was the cook's for that matter. They were both profoundly
depressed and anxious; they both regarded me with evident dislike and still more evident fear.
They mumped about the house, silent and restless; they showed an inconvenient desire to keep
me in sight and yet they hurried out of the rooms at my approach.

"The housemaid was very much disturbed. When waiting at table, she eyed me incessantly and
if I moved suddenly she jumped. The horses were put in rapid motion; she heard the trampling of
many hoofs, and felt that they were on soft turf, and she knew that for many miles round Winchester
it was possible to keep on the downs so as to avoid any inhabited place. She tried to guess,
from the sense of sunshine that came through her bandage, in what
direction she was being carried, and fancied it must be southerly.

On-- on-- on-- still the turf. It seemed absolutely endless. I was in the dining-room when they arrived and through the open door heard
what passed; and certainly the incident was not without a humorous side.

"The carrier came to the front door and to Susan, who answered his ring, he addressed himself
with the familiarity of his class.

"'Here's three cases for your master. Funny uns, they are, too. He don't happen to be in the
resurrection line, I suppose?'

"'I don't know what you mean,' Susan replied, sourly.

"'You will when you see the cases,' the man retorted. 'Three of 'em, there are. Big uns. Where
will you have 'em?'

Susan came to me for instructions and I directed that they should be taken through to the museum,
the door of which I unlocked for the purpose.

"The appearance of the cases was undeniably funereal, not in shape only but also in color;
for the dealer, with an ill-timed sense of fitness, had had them painted black. And the effect
was heightened by the conduct of the two grinning carriers, who bore each case on their shoulders,
coffin-wise, and proceeded to the museum at a slow, funereal walk; and when I was out of sight,
though not out of earshot, I heard the leading carrier, who seemed to be somewhat of a humorist,
softly whistling the 'Dead March in Saul.'

"Meanwhile, Susan Slodger stood in the hall with a face as white as a tallow candle. She stared
with fearful fascination at the long, black cases and uttered no sound even when the facetious
carrier questioned her as to the destination of 'our dear departed brother.' She was absolutely
thunderstruck.

"When the carriers had gone I directed her to come to the museum and help me to unpack the
cases, which she flatly refused to do unless supported by the cook. To this, of course, I had
no objection, and when she went off to the kitchen to fetch her colleague, I took up a position
just inside the laboratory door and awaited developments. The cases had hinged lids secured
with a simple hook, so that when the binding cords were cut there would be no difficulty in
ascertaining the nature of the contents.

"The two women came briskly through the lobby, the cook babbling cheerfully and the housemaid
silent; but at the museum door they both stopped short and the former ejaculated, 'Gawd! what's
this?'

"Here I stepped out and explained, 'These are some cases of specimens for the museum. I want
you to unfasten the cords. That is all. I will take out the things myself.' With this I went
back to the laboratory; but in less than half a minute I heard a series of shrieks, and the
two women raced through the lobby and disappeared below stairs.

"After this the position grew worse than ever. Though obviously terrified of me, these two
women dogged me incessantly. It was most inconvenient, for the excess of material kept me exceedingly
busy; and to make things worse, I had received from Jamrach's (without an order--but I had
to keep the thing) a dead hyena which had been affected with osteitis deformans. It was a fine
specimen and was useful as serving to explain my great preoccupation; but it added to my labors
and made me impatient of interruptions.

"The museum wing had an entrance of its own in a side street for the delivery of material (such
as the hyena), and this gave me some relief; for I could go out of the front door and slip
in by the side entrance. But Susan soon discovered this and thereafter was continually banging
at the lobby door to see if I was in. I don't know what she thought. She was an ignorant woman
and stupid, but I think she vaguely associated my labors in the laboratory with her absent friends.

"This perpetual spying on my actions became at last intolerable and I was on the point of sending
the two hussies about their business when an accident put an end to the state of affairs. I
had gone out of the front door and let myself in by the side entrance, but, by some amazing
inadvertence, had left the lobby door unfastened; and I had barely got on my apron to begin
work when I heard someone enter the lobby. Then came a gentle tapping at the door of the laboratory.
I took no notice, but waited to see what would happen. The tapping was repeated louder and
yet louder, and still I made no move. Then, after an interval, I heard a wire inserted in the lock.

"I determined to make an end of this. Quietly concealing the material on which I was working,
I took down from a hook a large butterfly-net (my poor wife had been interested in Lepidoptera).
Very softly I tiptoed to the door and suddenly flung it open. There stood Susan Slodger with
a hair-pin in her hand, absolutely paralyzed with terror. In a moment, before she had time
to recover, I had slipped the butterfly-net over her head.

"That revived her. With a piercing yell she turned and fled, and with such precipitancy that
she pulled the net off the handle. I saw her flying down the lobby with the net over her head,
looking like an oriental bride; I heard the street door bang, and I found the butter-fly net
on the doormat. But Susan Slodger I never set eyes on again.

"The cook left me the same day, taking Susan's box with her. It was a great relief. I now had
the house to myself and could work without interruption or the discomfort of being spied upon.
As to the products of my labors, they are fully set forth in the catalogue; and of this adventure
I can only say to the visitor to my museum in the words of the well-known inscription, 'Si
monumentum requiris, Circumspice?'"

Such was Challoner's account of his acquisition of the specimens numbered 2, 3 and 4. The descriptions
of the preparations were, as he had said, set out in dry and precise detail in the catalogue,
and some of the particulars were really quite interesting, as, for instance, the fact that
"the skull of Number 4 combines an extreme degree of dolichocephaly (67.5) with a cranial capacity
of no more than 1523 cubic centimeters." It was certainly what one might have expected from
his conduct.

But to the general reader the question which will suggest itself is, What was the state of
Challoner's mind? Was he mad? Was he wicked? Or had he merely an unconventional point of view?
It is to the latter opinion that I incline after long consideration. He clearly rejected the
criminal as a fellow-creature and regarded himself as a public benefactor in eliminating him.
And perhaps he was right.

As to the apparently insane pleasure that he took in the actual captures, I can only say that
sane men take a pleasure in the slaughter of harmless animals--such as the giraffe--for which
they have no need; and other sane men actually go abroad and kill--by barbarous methods--foreign
men of estimable character with whom they have no quarrel. This sport they call war and seem
to enjoy it. But killing is killing; and a foreign peasant's life is surely worth more than
a British criminal's.

This, however, is only an obiter dictum from which many will no doubt dissent.

IV

THE GIFTS OF CHANCE

The testamentary arrangements of eccentric people must, from time to time, have put their legatees
in possession of some very queer property. I call to mind an old gentleman who bequeathed to
a distant relative the products of a lifetime of indiscrimate collecting; which products included
an obsolete field gun, a stuffed camel, a collection of bottled tapeworms, a fire engine, a
church pulpit and the internal fittings of a public-house bar. And other instances could be
quoted. But surely no legatee ever found himself in possession of a queerer legacy than that
which my poor friend Challoner had bequeathed to me when he made over to me the mortal remains
of some two dozen deceased criminals.

The bequest would have been an odd one under any circumstances, but what made it much more
so was the strange intimacy that became established between me and the deceased. To the ordinary
observer a skeleton in a museum case or in an art school conveys no vivid sense of humanity.
That this bony shape was once an actual person, a Me, that walked abroad and wore clothes,
that loved and hated, sorrowed and rejoiced, that had friends and lovers, parents and perhaps
children; that was, in short, a living man or woman, occurs to him but vaguely. The thing is
an osteological specimen; a mere anatomical abstraction.

Now these skeletons of Challoner's were quite different. Walking down the long room and looking
into the great wall-case, I was confronted with actual individuals. Number One was Jimmy Archer,
who had tried to steal the "blimy teapot." The old trade-routes between Asia and Europe were
effectually and permanently blocked by the Turkish conquests. Not only routes of trade, but
methods of exchange, forms of transportation, and, in fact, the whole system by which Eastern
goods had been brought to Europe for centuries, were interrupted, undermined, and made almost
impracticable. During this period the city republics of Italy, which had been the chief European
intermediaries of this trade, were losing their prosperity, their
wealth, their enterprise, and their vigor.

This was due, as a matter of fact, to a variety of causes, internal and external, political
and economic; but the sufferings in the wars with the Turks and the adverse conditions of the Levant
trade on which their prosperity primarily rested were far the most important causes of their
decline.

Thus the demand of European markets for Eastern luxuries could no longer be met satisfactorily
by the old methods; yet that demand was no less than it had been, and the characteristic products
of the East were still sought for in all the market-places of Europe. Indeed, the demand was
increasing. As Europe in the fifteenth century became more wealthy and more familiar with the products
of the whole world, as the nobles learned to demand more luxuries, and a wealthy merchant class
grew up which was able to gratify the same tastes as the nobles, the demand of the West upon
the East became more insistent than ever. Therefore, the men, the nation, the government that could
find a new way to the East might claim a trade of indefinite extent
and extreme profit.

This is the explanation of that eager search for new routes to the Indies which lay at the back
of so many voyages of discovery of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.

Southward along the coast of Africa, in the hope that that continent could be rounded to the southeast;
northward along the coast of Europe in search of a northeast passage; westward relying on
the sphericity of the earth and hoping that the distance from the west coast of Europe to
the east coast of Asia would prove not to be interminable; after America was reached, again
northward and southward to round and pass beyond that barrier, and thus reach Asia-- such was
the progress of geographical exploration for a century and a half, during which men gradually
became familiar with a great part of the earth's surface. A study of the history of trade-routes
corroborates the fact disclosed by many other lines of study-- that the discovery of America was
no isolated phenomenon; it was simply one step in the development of the world's history.
Changes in the eastern Mediterranean led men to turn their eyes in other directions looking
for other sea routes to the East.

When they had done so, along with much else that was new, America
was disclosed to their vision.

To
follow out all the remote effects of the upheaval in western Asia and eastern Europe would lead
too far afield: but the diversion of commercial interest was only a part: the restless energies
of the Latin races of southern Europe turned into a new channel;
search for trade led to discovery, discovery to exploration, exploration
to permanent settlement; and settlement to the creation of a new centre
of commercial and political interest, and eventually to the rise of
a new nation.

CHAPTER III ITALIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO EXPLORATION (1200-1500) Although
in the fifteenth century Italy lost the commercial leadership which
she had so long held, she did not cease to be the teacher of the other
countries of Europe.

In those arts which lay at the base of exploration, as in so many
other fields, Italy was far in advance of all other Western countries.

Through the Middle Ages she preserved much of the heritage of ancient
skill and learning; by her Renaissance studies she recovered much
that had been temporarily lost; and in geographical science she early
made progress of her own.

"The greatness of the Germans, the courtesy of the French, the valor of the English, and the
wisdom of the Italians" is the tribute paid by a fifteenth-century Portuguese chronicler to the
nations of his time, and this "wisdom of the Italians" he especially
connects with exploration and navigation.

[Footnote: Azurara, "Chronicle of Guinea," chap. ii.] As a nation Italy played but a slight
part in the discoveries of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries; but through her scattered sons
she used her fine intelligence to initiate and guide much of the work that was completed by the
ruder but more efficient and vigorous nations of the Atlantic seaboard.
Educated men from Venice, Genoa, Pisa, and Florence emigrated to
other lands, carrying with them science, skill, and ingenuity unknown except
in the advanced and enterprising Italian city republics and principalities.
Italian mathematicians made the calculations on which all navigation
was based; Italian cartographers drew maps and charts; Italian ship-builders
designed and built the best vessels of the time; Italian captains
commanded them, and very often Italian sailors made up their crews;
while at least in the earlier period Italian bankers advanced the
funds with which the expeditions were equipped and sent out.

Columbus, Cabot, Verrazzano, and Vespucci
were simply the most famous of the Italians who during this period made
discoveries while in the service of other governments. The Venetian
Cadamosto led repeated and successful expeditions for Prince Henry of Portugal;
Perestrello, the discoverer of Porto Santo, in the Madeiras, and
Antonio de Noli, the discoverer of the Cape Verd Islands, were both
Italians.

[Footnote: Ruge, "Der Zeitalter der Entdeckungen," 217.] This was no new condition of affairs.
In the time of Edward II. and Edward III., in the service of England, we find the names of
Genoese such as Pesagno and Uso de Mare. Another Genoese, Emanuel Pesagno, was appointed as the first hereditary
admiral of the fleet of Portugal, and by the terms of his engagement was required to keep
the Portuguese navy provided with twenty Genoese captains of good experience
in navigation. Of the sixty men who made up the complement of Magellan's
fleet of 1519, in the service of Spain, twenty-three were Italians,
mostly Genoese.

[Footnote: Navarrete, quoted in Ruge, Zeitalter, 466, n.] At the same time all Spanish taxes were
administered by Genoese bankers, and they or other Italians had a monopoly of all loanable capital.
[Footnote: Hume, Spain, Its Greatness and Decay, 87] Long before the great period of discoveries
Italians contributed to the increase of geographical knowledge by travel
and narratives of travel over the world as it was already known,
but only known vaguely and by dim report.

Down to the middle of the thirteenth century the total knowledge
of the lands and waters of the globe possessed by the educated men
of Europe was not appreciably greater than it had been a thousand
years earlier.

The disintegration of the old Roman world, the more stationary habits of life, and the narrower interests
of men during the early Middle Ages were unfavorable to travel.

The later Middle Ages were not lacking in keen intellect, in large knowledge, in powers of systematization
and elaboration of what has already been acquired; but they had neither
the material equipment nor the mental temperament to carry the boundaries
of knowledge further.

What was known of the world to Ptolemy in the second century made
up the sum of knowledge possessed by the geographers of all the following
centuries to the thirteenth.

Indeed, the mediaeval tendency to establish symmetrical measurements, to adopt fanciful explanations,
and to find analogies in all things, obscured earlier knowledge
and made geographers of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries less
correct in their knowledge of the world than were those of the second
or the third.

[Footnote: Beazley, Dawn of Modern Geography.] The discoveries, conquests,
and settlements of the Northmen in the north of Europe and the northern
Atlantic were so detached from the knowledge of the south and came
to a pause so early in time that notwithstanding their potential value
they contributed practically nothing to the general geographical knowledge
of Europe.

Nor did Christian,
Jewish, or Arabic accounts of Eastern lands written by travellers of
the eleventh, twelfth, and early thirteenth centuries become widely
known or influential. [Footnote: Ibid., II., chaps, i.-iv.] Even the
knowledge brought home by the Crusaders was of a restricted territory,
most of it already comparatively familiar; and therefore they added
little to the common stock.

About the middle of the thirteenth century, however, began a series of journeys which were more
fully recorded in narratives more widely circulated and in a more
receptive period.

Three incentives habitually carry men into distant and unknown lands-- missionary zeal, desire
for trade, and curiosity.

Actuated by one or other of these influences, an increasing number of Europeans visited lands
far beyond the eastern terminations of the trade-routes, and some of them brought back reports
of which the influence was wide and lasting. Among the earliest and most observant were a succession
of Franciscan friars, sent after 1245 on missionary journeys to the court of the ruler of the great Tartar Empire,
which was then so rapidly overspreading Asia and eastern Europe. The first of these was John
de Piano Carpini, a native of Naples, who belonged to a Franciscan
house near Perugia. He went through Bohemia, Poland, southern Russia,
and the vast steppes of Turkestan, and found the Khan at Karakorum,
in Mongolia. He was two years on the journey, and after his return
wrote an exact and interesting account of his observations and experiences.

[Footnote: Travels of John de Piano Carpini (D'Avezac's ed.).] A few
years afterwards William de Rubruquis-- a Fleming in this case, not
an Italian-- was sent to visit the Mongol emperor by Louis IX. when
he was in the East.

He followed a more southerly route than Carpini, skirting the northern
shores of the Black Sea, the Caspian, and the Sea of Aral, and then
passing northward to Karakorum. Returning he crossed the Caucasus and passed through
Persia and the lands of the Turks, finally reaching the Mediterranean
through Syria.

The account which he wrote of his adventures was much fuller than that
of Piano Carpini, and gives descriptions of China as well as of the central
Asiatic lands.

[Footnote: Travels of William de Rubruquis (D'Avezac's ed).] Just
at the beginning of the next century two other travellers, John de Monte
Corvino [Footnote: Beazley, Dawn of Modern Geography, II, chap v.] and
Odoric de Pordenone, [Foornote: Travels of Odoric de Pordenone (D'Avezac's
ed)] both Italians, made journeys through Persia, India, southern
Asia, and China, and later wrote accounts of these more southern lands
quite as full as were those already mentioned concerning the northern
parts of the great eastern continent.

The most famous of all mediaeval travellers in the East were the Venetian
merchants Nicolo and Matteo Polo and their nephew Marco. These enterprising
traders, leaving their warehouses in Soldaia on the Crimea, in two
successive journeys made their way along the northern and central
trade-routes to Pekin, in northern China, or Cathay, which had become
the capital of the Great Khan.

For almost twenty years the Polos were attached to the court of Kublai Khan, the nephew, Marco,
rising higher and higher in the graces of that ruler.

Marco Polo was one of the well-known type of Italian adventurers who appeared at foreign courts,
and, with the versatility of their race, made themselves useful,
and indeed indispensable, to their masters.

He learned the languages of the East, and went upon missions for
the Great Khan to all parts of his vast empire.

When, in 1292, the Polos obtained permission to return home they followed
the longest and most important of the three main trade-routes which
have been described. They sailed from Zaiton, a seaport of China, and
passing along the shores of Tonquin, Java, and farther India, made
their way from port to port, through the Bay of Bengal to Ceylon,
then to the Malabar coast of India, along which they passed to Cambay,
and thence through the Red Sea to Cairo, and so to Venice.

Their journey homeward from China, with its long detentions in the
East Indies, took almost three years.

All the world knows of Marco Polo's subsequent experiences in Venice,
his capture and imprisonment in Genoa, the stories of his travels
with which he whiled away the weary days of his captivity, and the
gathering of these into a book which spread widely through Europe
within the next few years and has been eagerly read ever since.

[Footnote: Marco Polo (Yule's ed,), Introduction.] Neither the travels
of Marco Polo nor those of his predecessors or immediate successors
disclosed any lands the existence of which was not before known to
Europeans; but they gave fuller knowledge of many countries and nations
of which the names only were known; and they gave this knowledge with
astonishing freshness, minuteness, and accuracy.

The writers of these books travelled over many thousands of miles,
and they described, in the main, what they saw, although, of course,
they repeated, with more or less of exaggeration, much which they
only knew from conversation or from hearsay.

Besides
the written stories of such experiences, other Europeans who accompanied
these travellers, or who made independent journeys to various parts
of Asia, spread knowledge of the same things.

The author of a later popular volume of travels, passing under the name
of Sir John Mandeville, managed, by making use of a slight acquaintance
with Asia, of a fuller knowledge of the writings of other travellers,
and, most of all, of the resources of a fertile imagination, to weave
a tissue of mendacious description which really lessened knowledge.

[Footnote: Travels of Sir John Mandeville (ed. of 1900).] Nevertheless,
as a result of these travellers'reports, the traditions of earlier
times and the knowledge of the nearer East possessed by traders were
supplemented and popularized.

The journeys of the travellers of the later thirteenth and the fourteenth centuries were a veritable
revelation to Europe of the condition of Tartary, Persia, India, China, and many intervening
lands.

Especially strong was the impression made by the reports about China and Japan. The land of the
Seres, lying on the border of the eastern ocean, had indeed been known to
the ancients, and mentioned by tradition as the source from which came certain
well-known products; but under the name of Cathay, which Marco Polo
and his contemporaries gave to it, it attained a new and strong hold
on men's imaginations. Its myriad population, its hundreds of cities,
its vast wealth, its advanced civilization, its rivers, bridges,
and ships, its manufactures and active trade, the fact that it was
the easternmost country of Asia, washed by the waters of the external
ocean-- all made Cathay a land of intense interest to the rising curiosity
of thirteenth-century Europe.

It was his accounts of "the province of Mangi," the cities of Zaiton and Quinsay, "the Great
Khan," "the island of Cipangu," and of their vast wealth and active
trade that took special hold on the mind of Columbus.

His copy of Marco Polo may still be seen, its margins filled with
annotations on such passages, made by the great navigator; [Footnote: Vignaud,
"Toscanelli and Columbus," 95.] and it was to these that his mind reverted
when he had discovered in the West Indies, as he believed, the outlying
parts of the Khan's dominions.

[Footnote: "Columbus's Journal," October 21, 23, 24, 26, 30, November 1, etc.] To the westward
also ancient knowledge was reacquired and made clearer.

The "Fortunate Isles" were rediscovered and identified as the Canaries
by the Italian Lancelot Malocello in 1270 [Footnote: Beazley, Hakluyt
Soc, "Publications," 1899, lxi, lxxviii.], then forgotten and rediscovered
in 1341 [Footnote: Ibid, lxxx; Peschel, "Zeitalter der Entdecktungen,"
37.] by some Portuguese ships, manned by Genoese, Florentines, Castilians,
and Portuguese.

"'Certainly.' I produced a small manuscript volume--not the catalogue which is attached to
the 'Archives,' but a dummy that I had prepared for such a contingency as had arisen--and handed
it to him. He opened it with avidity, and, turning at once to Number Five, began, with manifest
disappointment, to read the description aloud.

"'5. Male skeleton of Teutonic type exhibiting well-marked characters of degeneration. The
skull is asymmetrical, subdolichocephalic.' (He pronounced this word subdolichocolophalic'
and paused abruptly, turning rather red. It is an awkward word.) 'Yes,' he said, closing the
catalogue, 'very interesting, very remarkable. Exceedingly so. I should very much like to possess
a skeleton like that.'

"'You are much better off with the one you have got,' I remarked.

"'Oh, I don't mean that,' he rejoined hastily. 'I mean that I should like to acquire a specimen
like this Number Five for my proposed collection. Now how could I get one?'

"'Well,' I said reflectively, 'there are several ways.' I paused and he gazed at me expectantly.
'You could, for instance,' I continued slowly, 'provide yourself with a lasso and take a walk
down Whitechapel High Street.'

"'Good gracious!' he exclaimed excitedly; 'do you really mean to say that--'

"'Certainly,' I interrupted. 'You would find an abundance of material. For my own part, not
being gifted with your exceptionally fine physique, I have to adopt the more prosaic and expensive
plan of buying my specimens from the dealers.'

"'Quite so, quite so,' he agreed. He was deeply disappointed and inclined to be huffy. 'Of
course you were joking about the lasso. But would you mind giving me the address of the dealer
from whom you obtained this specimen?' And once more he pointed to Cousin Bill.

"He thought he had cornered me; and so he would have done if I had been less cautious. I congratulated
myself on the wisdom and foresight that had led me to provide myself with those dummy skeletons.
For now I held him in the hollow of my hand.

"'That specimen?' I said, scanning the date on the pedestal; 'I fancy I got it from Hammerstein.
You know his place in the Seven Dials, no doubt. A very useful man. I get most of my human
osteology from him.' I fetched my receipt file and turned over the papers in leisurely fashion
while he gnawed his lips with impatience. At last I found the receipted invoice and he read
it aloud with a ludicrous expression of disappointment.

"'Complete set superfine human osteology strongly articulated with best brass wire and screw-bolts,
with springs to mandible and stout iron supporting rod. All bones guaranteed to be derived
from the same subject. £5.3.4.'

"The invoice was headed, Oscar Hammerstein, Dealer in Osteology, Great St. Andrew Street, London,
W.C.,' and was dated 4th February, 1891.

"The detective entered the name and address in a black-bound note-book of official aspect,
compared the date with that on Cousin Bill's pedestal and prepared to depart.

"'There is one thing I must point out to you,' I said, anticipating an early visit on my friend's
part to Mr. Hammerstein; 'the skeletons as you get them from the dealers are not always up
to museum style in point of finish. They are often of a bad color and may be stained with grease.
If they are, you will have to disarticulate them, clean them with benzol and, if necessary,
remacerate and bleach; but whatever you do,' I concluded solemnly, 'be careful with the chlorinated
soda or you will spoil the appearance of the bones and make them brittle. Good bye!' I shook
his hand effusively and he took his departure very glum and crestfallen.

"As long as he had been with me, something of the old buoyant spirit of playfulness--that was
my ordinary mood until my great trouble befell--had been revived by the absurdity of the situation.
But his departure left me rather depressed, for his visit marked the final collapse of my scheme.
Even if the criminal classes had been willing to continue the supply of anthropological material,
my methods could not have been carried out under the watchful and disapproving eyes of the police.

"What then was to be done? This was the question that I asked myself again and again. As to
abandoning my activities, of course, such an idea never occurred to me. I remained alive for
a definite purpose: to search for the man who had murdered my wife and to exact from him payment
of his debt. Of this purpose, the collection had been, at first, a mere by-product; and though
it was gradually taking such hold of me as to become a purpose in itself, it was but a minor
purpose. The discovery of that unknown wretch was the Mecca of my earthly pilgrimage, from
which no difficulties or obstacles should divert me.

"The hint that ultimately guided me into new fields of research came to me by the merest chance.
A few days after the visit of the detective I received a letter from one of my few remaining
friends, a Dr. Grayson, who had formerly practiced in London as a physician, but who, owing
to age and infirmity, had retired to his native place, the village of Shome, near Rochester.
Grayson asked me to spend a day with him, that we might talk over some matters in which we
were both interested; and, being now rather at a loose end, I accepted the invitation, but
declined to sleep away from home and my collection.

"It is significant of my state of mind at this time that, before starting, I considered what
weapon I should take with me. Formerly I should no more have thought of arming myself for a
simple railway journey than of putting on a coat of mail; but now a train suggested a train
robber--a Lefroy, with a very unsubmissive Mr. Gold--and the long tunnel near Strood was but
the setting of a railway tragedy. My ultimate choice of weapon, too, is interesting. The familiar
revolver I rejected utterly. There must be no noise. My quarrel with the criminal was a personal
one in which no outsiders must be allowed to meddle. I should have preferred the concussor,
which I now handled with skill, but it was hardly a portable tool, and my choice ultimately
fell on a very fine swordstick, supplemented by a knuckle-duster which had been bequeathed
to me by one of my clients after trial on my own countenance.

And after all, nothing happened. I got into an empty first-class compartment and when, just
as the train was starting, a burly fellow dashed in and slammed the door, I eyed him suspiciously
and waited for developments. But there were none. The fellow sat huddled in a corner, watching
me and keeping an eye on the handle of the alarm over his head; but he made no sign. When we
emerged from the long tunnel he was as white as a ghost and he hopped out on to Strood platform
almost before the train had begun to slow down.

"I reached my bag down from the rack and got out after him, smiling at my own folly. The criminal
was becoming an obsession of which I must beware if I would not end my days in an asylum; a
fact which was further impressed on me when I saw my late fellow-passenger, who had just caught
sight of me, 'legging it' down the station approach like a professional pedestrian and looking
back nervously over his shoulder. Resolving firmly to put the subject out of my mind, I walked
slowly into the town and betook myself to the London Road; and though, as I passed the Falstaff
Inn and crossed Gad's Hill, fleeting reminiscences of Prince Henry and the men in buckram came
unsought, with later suggestions of a stagecoach struggling up the hill in the dark and masked
figures creeping down the banks into the sunken road, I kept to my good resolution. The bag
was a little cumbersome--it contained a large parcel of bulbs from Covent Garden that Grayson
had asked me to bring--and yet it was pleasant to break off from the high road and stray by
well-remembered tracks and footpaths across the fields. It was all familiar ground; for in
years gone by, when Grayson was in practice, we would come down together for weekends to his
little demesne, and often I would stay on alone for a week or so and ramble about the country
by myself. So I knew every inch of the country side and was so much interested in renewing
my acquaintance with it that I was twenty minutes late for lunch.

"I had a most agreeable day with Grayson (who was working at the historical aspects of disease),
and would have stayed later than I did. But at about half-past eight--we had dined at seven--Grayson
began to be restless and fidgetty and at last said apologetically:

"'Don't think me inhospitable, Challoner, but if you aren't going to stay the night you had
better be going. And don't go by Gad's Hill. Take the road down to Higham and catch the train
there.'

"'Why, what is the matter with Gad's Hill?' I asked.

"'Nothing much by daylight, but a great deal at night. It has always been an unsafe spot and
is especially just now. There has been quite an epidemic of highway robberies lately. They
began when the hoppers were here last autumn, but some of those East-end ruffians seem to have
settled in the neighborhood. I have seen some very queer-looking characters even in this village;
aliens, apparently, of the kind that you see about Stepney and Whitechapel.

"'Now, you get down to Higham, like a good fellow, before the country settles down for the night.'

"Needless to say, the prowling alien had no terrors for me, but as Grayson was really uneasy,
I made no demur and took my leave almost immediately. But I did not make directly for Higham.
The moon was up and the village looked very inviting. Tree and chimney-stack, thatched roof
and gable-end cut pleasant shapes of black against the clear sky, and patches of silvery light
fell athwart the road on wooden palings and weather-boarded fronts. I strolled along the little
street, carrying the now light and empty bag and exchanging greetings with scattered villagers,
until I came to the lane that turns down towards the London Road. Here, by a triangular patch
of green, I halted and mechanically looked at my watch, holding it up in the moonlight. I was
about to replace it when a voice asked:

"'What's the right time, mister?'

"I looked up sharply. The man who had spoken was sitting on the bank under the hedge and in
such deep shadow that I had not noticed him. Nor could I see much of him now, though I observed
that he seemed to be taking some kind of refreshment; but the voice was not a Kentish voice,
nor even an English one; it seemed to engraft an unfamiliar, guttural accent on the dialect
of East London.

"I told the man the time and asked him if the road--pointing to the ridgway--would take me
to Higham. Of course I knew it would not and I have no very distinct idea why I asked. But
he answered promptly enough, 'Yus. Straight down the road. Was you wantin' to get to the station?'

"I replied that I was, and he added, 'You go straight down the road a mile and a half and you'll
see the station right in front of you.'

"Now, here was a palpable misdirection. Obviously intentional, too, for the circumstantiality
excluded the idea of a mistake. He was deliberately sending me--an ostensible stranger--along
a solitary side-road that led into the heart of the country. With what object? I had very little
doubt, and that doubt should soon be set at rest.

"I thanked him for his information and set out along the road at an easy pace; but when I had
gone a little way, I lengthened my stride so as to increase my speed without altering the rhythm
of my footfalls. As I went, I speculated on the intentions of my friend and noted with interest
and a little surprise that I was quite without fear of him. I suspected him of being a footpad,
one of the gang of which Grayson had spoken, and I had set forth along this unfrequented road
in a spirit of mere curiosity to see if it were really so.

"Presently I came to a gate at the entrance of a cart-track and here I halted to listen. From
the road behind me came the sound of footsteps; quick steps but not sharp and crisp; rather
of a shuffling, stealthy quality. I climbed quietly over the gate and took up a position behind
the trunk of an elm that grew in the hedgerow. The footsteps came on apace. Soon round a bend
of the moon-lighted road a figure appeared moving forward rapidly and keeping in what shadow
there was. I watched it through the thick hedge as it approached and resolved itself into a
seedy-looking man carrying a thick knobbed stick.

"Opposite the gate the man halted and, as I could see by his shadow, looked across the silvery
fields that stretched away down to the valley and listened, but only for a few moments. Then
he started forward again at something between a quick walk and a slow trot.

"As soon as he had gone I came out and began to walk down the cart-track. My figure must have
stood out conspicuously on the bare field and must have been plainly visible from the ridge-way.
I did not hurry. Pursuing my way quietly down the gentle slope, I went on for some three hundred
yards until the ground fell away more steeply; and here, before descending, I looked over my
shoulder.

"A man was getting over the gate.

"I walked on more quickly now until I topped a second rise and then I again looked back. The
figure of the man stood out on the brow of the hill, black against the moonlit sky. And now
he was hurrying forward in undisguised pursuit.

"I quickened my pace and looked about me. The night was calm and lovely, the fields bathed
in silvery light and the wooded uplands shrouded in a soft, gray shadow, from the heart of
which a single lighted window gleamed forth, a spot of rosy warmth. The bark of a watch-dog
came softened by distance from some solitary farmstead, and far away below, the hoot of a steamer,
creeping up the river to the twinkling anchorage.

"Presently I came to a spot where the rough road divided. One well-worn track led down towards
the footpath that ultimately enters the London Road; a fainter track led, as I knew, to an
old chalk-pit where, in mysterious caverns, the farm carts rested through the winter months.
Here I halted for a moment as if in doubt. The man was now less than a hundred yards behind
me and walking as fast as he could. I turned round and looked at him, he appeared once more
to hesitate, and then started at a run along the track to the chalk-pit.

"There was no disguise about the man's intentions. As I started off, he broke into a run and
followed, but he did not hail me to stop. I suppose he knew whither the path led. But if his
purpose was definite, so was mine. And again I noted with faint surprise that I had no feeling
of nervousness. My contact with the criminal class had left me with nothing but a sentiment
of hostile contempt. That a criminal might kill me never presented itself as a practical possibility.
I was only concerned in inducing him to give me a fair pretext for killing him. So I ran on,
wondering if my pursuer had ringed hair; if it were possible that, in this remote place and
by this chance meeting, I might find the object of my quest; and conscious of that fierce,
playful delight that always came over me when I was hunting the enemies of my race. For, of
course, I was now hunting the fellow behind me, although the poor devil supposed he was hunting me.

"When the track approached the chalk-pit, it descended rather suddenly. I ran down between
two clumps of bushes, into the weed-grown area at the bottom, past the row of caverns wherein
the wagons were even now lurking unseen, and on until the track ended among a range of mole-hills
in a sort of bay encompassed by the time-stained cliff. Here I wheeled about, putting down
my bag, and faced my pursuer.

"'Stand off!' I said sharply. 'What are you following me for?'

"The man stopped and then approached more slowly. 'Look 'ere, mister,' said he, 'I don't want
to hurt yer. You needn't be afeared of me.'

"'Well,' said I, 'What do you want?'

"'I'll tell yer,' he said confidentially. 'I'm a pore man, I am; I ain't got no watch, I ain't
got no money and I can't get no work. Now you're a rich man. You've got a very 'andsome watch--I
see it--and lots more at 'ome, I dessay. Well, you makes me a present o' that watch, that's
what you do; and any small change that you've got about yer. You do that and I'll let yer go
peaceable.'

"'And supposing I don't?'

"'Then some o' them farm blokes 'ill find a dead man in a chalk-pit. And it ain't no good for
you to holler. There ain't no one within a mile of this place. So you pass over that watch
and turn out yer bloomin' pockets.'

"'Do I understand--' I began; but he interrupted me savagely:

"'Oh, shut yer face and hand over! D'yer hear?' He advanced threateningly, grasping his bludgeon
by the smaller end, but when he had approached within a couple of paces I made a sudden lunge
with my stick, introducing its ferrule to his abdomen about the region of the solar plexus.
He sprang back with an astonished yelp--which sounded like 'Ow--er!'--and stood gasping and
rubbing his abdomen. As he recovered, he broke out into absurd and disgusting speech and began
cautiously to circle round me, balancing his club in readiness for a smashing blow.

"'You wait till I done with yer,' said he, watching for a chance. 'I'll make yer pay for that.
I'm a-goin' to do yer in, I am. You'll look ugly when I've finished--Ow--er!' The concluding
exclamation was occasioned by the ferrule of my stick impinging on the fleshy part of his chest,
and as he uttered it he sprang back out of range.

"After this he kept a greater distance, but continued to circle round and pour out an unceasing
torrent of foul words. But he had not the faintest idea how to use a stick, whereas my practice
with the foils at the gymnasium had made me quite skilful. From time to time he raised his
bludgeon and ran in at me, but a sharp prod under the upraised arm always sent him leaping
back out of reach with the inevitable 'Ow--er!'

"His lack of skill deprived the encounter of much of its interest. I think he felt this himself,
for I saw him looking about furtively as if in search of something. Then he espied a large
and knobbly flint and would have picked it up; but as he was stooping I plied the point of
my stick so vigorously that he staggered back with yelps of pain.

"And now it was suddenly borne in upon me that he had had enough. I realized it just in time
to plant myself on the track between him and the entrance to the chalk-pit. He was still as
savage and murderous as ever, but his nerve was gone. He shrank away from me and as I followed
closely he tried again and again to dodge past towards the opening.

"'Look 'ere, mister,' he said at length, 'you chuck it and I'll let yer go peaceable.'

"Let me go! I laughed scornfully, but stood my ground. And yet it was unpleasant. One cannot
go on hammering a beaten man and it is difficult to refuse a surrender. On the other hand,
it was out of the question to let this fellow go. He had come here prepared to murder me for
a paltry watch and a handful of loose change. Common justice and my duty to my fellow men demanded
his elimination. Besides, if I let him escape into the open, what would happen? The fields
were sprinkled with big flints. It was practically certain that I should never leave the neighborhood
alive.

"Even as I stood hesitating, he furnished an illustrative commentary on my thoughts. Springing
back from me, he suddenly stooped and caught up a great flint nodule; and though I ducked quickly
as he flung it and so avoided its full force, I caught such a buffet as it glanced off the
side of my head as convinced me that a settlement must be speedily arrived at. Rushing in on
him, I bore him backwards until he was penned up in the entrance of one of the caverns against
the shafts of a wagon. Then suddenly he changed his tactics. Realizing at last that a clumsily-wielded
bludgeon is powerless against a stick expertly handled rapier-wise, he dropped his club, and
the next moment the moonbeams flashed from the broad blade of a knife. This was quite a different
affair. He now stood on guard with the knife poised and his left hand outspread ready to snatch
at my stick. It was a much more effective plan; only he did not know that inside my stout malacca
reposed a keen Toledo sword-blade.

"I slipped my thumb on the press-button of the sword-stick and watched him. From time to time
he made a dash at me with his knife, and when I prodded him back, he snatched at the stick.
Again and again he nearly caught it, but I was just a little too quick for him, and he fell
back, gasping and cursing, on the wagon-shafts. And then the end came with inevitable suddenness.
He rushed out on me with upraised knife. I stopped him with a vigorous poke in the chest; but
before I could whisk away the stick he had clutched it with a howl of joy. I gave a final drive,
pressed the button and sprang back, leaving the scabbard-end in his hand. Before he had realized
what had happened, he darted out, brandishing the knife, and came fairly on the point of the
sword-blade. He brings out not only the differences in doctrine but in spirit, and shows how,
by the Thirty Years'War, Germany was excluded from the possibility
of establishing American colonies, a lack which that country has found
it impossible to repair in our day.

The mother-country for the American nation was in greater part England; even Scotland and Ireland
contributed their numbers and their characteristics only in the third and fourth generations
of the colonies.

A considerable part of this volume, therefore (chapters xi. to xvi.), is given up to a description
of the conditions of England at the time of the departure of the first colonists. Everybody knows,
and nobody knows clearly, the religious questions in England from Elizabeth to James II. Here will
be found a distinct and vivid account of the struggle between churchmen, Catholics, Puritans,
and Independents for influence on the Church of England or for supremacy in the state. Why
did the Catholics in general remain loyal? Why were the Puritans punished? Why were the Independents
at odds with everybody else?

Why did not Presbyterianism take root in England? These are all questions of great moment,
and their adjustment by Professor Cheyney prepares the way for the account of the Pilgrims
who founded Plymouth colony in Tyler's England in America (volume IV. of the series). An absolute
essential for an understanding of colonial history before the Revolution is a clear idea of
the political system of England, both in its larger national form and in its local government.
Hence the importance of Professor Cheyney's chapters on English government. The kings'courts,
council, and Parliament all had their effect upon the governors'courts, councils, and assemblies
of the various colonies. Prom the English practice came the superb, fundamental notion of
a right of representation and of the effectiveness of a delegated assembly. In local government
the likeness was in some respects even closer; and Professor Cheyney's account of the English
county court, and especially of the township or parish, will solve
many difficulties in the later colonial history.

In some ways Professor Cheyney's conclusions make more striking and original the development
of the astonishing New England town-meetings. As the volume begins with the rise of the exploring
spirit, it is fitting that Prince Henry the Navigator should furnish the frontispiece. The bibliography
deals more than those of later volumes with a literature which has been a tangled thicket, and
will shorten the road for many teachers and students of these subjects. The significance of
Professor Cheyney's volume is that, without describing America or narrating American events,
it furnishes the necessary point of departure for a knowledge of American history. The first
question to be asked by the reader is, why did people look westward?

And the answer is, because of their desire to reach the Orient. The second question is, what
was the impulse to new habits of life and what the desire for settlements in distant lands? The
answer is, the effect of the Reformation in arousing men's minds
and in bringing about wars which led to emigration.

The third question is, what manner of people were they who furnished the explorers and the
colonists? The answer is found in these pages, which describe the Spaniard, the French, the Dutch,
and especially the English, and show us the national and local institutions which were ready
to be transplanted, and which readily took root across the sea.

AUTHOR'S PREFACE The history of America is a branch of that of Europe. The discovery, exploration,
and settlement of the New World were results of European movements, and sprang from economic
and political needs, development of enterprise, and increase of knowledge, in the Old World.
The fifteenth century was a period of extension of geographical knowledge, of which the discovery
of America was a part; the sixteenth century was a time of preparation,
during which European events were taking place which were of the first
importance to America, even though none of the colonies which were
to make up the United States were yet in existence.

From the time of the settlement forward, the only population of America that has counted in history
has been of European origin. The institutions that characterize the New World are fundamentally
those of Europe. People and institutions have been modified by the material conditions of America;
and the process of emigration gave a new direction to the development of American history from
the very beginning; but the origin of the people, of their institutions, and of their history
was none the less a European one. The beginnings of American history are therefore to be found
In European conditions at the time of the foundation of the colonies.

Similar forces continued to exercise an influence in later times. The power and policy of home
governments, successive waves of emigration, and numberless events in Europe had effects which
were deeply felt in America.

This influence of Europe upon America, however, became less and less as time passed on; and
the development of the American nation has made its history constantly more independent. It is,
therefore, only with some of the most important and earliest of these European occurrences and
conditions that this book is occupied.

The general relation of America to Europe is a subject that would require a vastly fuller
treatment, and it is a subject which doubtless will increasingly receive the attention of scholars
as our appreciation of the proper perspective of history becomes more clear. In so wide a
field as that of this volume, it has been necessary to use secondary materials for many statements;
their aid is acknowledged in the footnotes and in the bibliography. Other parts, so far as
space limits allowed, I have been able to work out from original sources. For much valuable
information, suggestion, and advice also, I am indebted to friends
and fellow-workers, and here gladly make acknowledgment for such
assistance.

EDWARD POTTS CHEYNEY.

EUROPEAN BACKGROUND OF AMERICAN HISTORY CHAPTER I THE EAST AND THE
WEST (1200-1500) To set forth the conditions in Europe which favored
the work of discovering America and of exploring, colonizing, and
establishing human institutions there, is the subject and task of
this book.

Its period extends from the beginning of those marked commercial,
political, and intellectual changes of the fifteenth century which
initiated a great series of geographical discoveries, to the close,
in the later years of the seventeenth century, of the religious wars
and persecutions which did so much to make that century an age of
emigration from Europe.

During those three hundred years few events in European history failed
to exercise some influence upon the fortunes of America.

The relations of the Old World to the New were then constructive and fundamental to a degree not true
of earlier or of later times. Before the fifteenth century events were only distantly preparing
the way; after the seventeenth the centre of gravity of American history was transferred to America
itself. The crowding events, the prominent men, the creative thoughts, and the rapidly changing institutions
which fill the history of western Europe during these three centuries cannot all be described
in this single volume.

It merely attempts to point out the leading motives for exploration and
colonization, to show what was the equipment for discovery, and to
describe the most significant of those political institutions of Europe
which exercised an influence on forms of government in the colonies,
thus sketching the main outlines of the European background of American
history.

Many political, economic, intellectual, and personal factors combined to make the opening of our
modern era an age of geographical discovery. Yet among these many causes there was one which was so
influential and persistent that it deserves to be singled out as
the predominant incentive to exploration for almost two hundred years.

This
enduring motive was the desire to find new routes, from Europe to the far East. Columbus sailed
on his great voyage in 1492, "his object being to reach the Indies."
[Footnote: Columbus's Journal, October 3, 21, 23, 24, etc Cf.

Bourne, Spain in America, chap, 11] When he discovered the first land beyond the Atlantic, he
came to the immediate conclusion that he had reached the coast of Asia, and identified first
Cuba and then Hayti with Japan. A week after his first sight of land he Reports, "It is certain
that this is the main-land and that I am in front of Zayton and Guinsay" [Footnote: Columbus's
Journal, November 1] Even on his third voyage, in 1498, he is still of the opinion that South
America is the main-land of Asia. [Footnote: Columbus's will] It was reported all through Europe that
the Genoese captain had "discovered the coast of the Indies," and "found that way never before known
to the East." [Footnote: Ramusio, Raccolta de Navigazioni, I, 414] The name West Indies still remains
as a testimony to the belief of the early explorers that they had
found the Indies by sailing westward.

When John Cabot, in 1496, obtained permission from Henry VII. to equip an expedition for westward
exploration, he hoofed to reach "the island of Cipango" (Japan) and the lands from which Oriental caravans
brought their goods to Alexandria. [Footnote: Letter of Soncino, 1497, in Hart, Contemporaries,
I., 70.] It is true that he landed on the barren shore of Labrador,
and that what he descried from his vessel as he sailed southward
was only the wooded coast of North America; but it was reported, and
for a while believed, that the king of England had in this manner
"acquired a part of Asia without drawing his sword."

[Footnote: Ibid. Cf. Bourne. Spain in America, chap v.] In 1501 Caspar Cortereal, in the service of
the king of Portugal, pressed farther into the ice-bound arctic waters on the same quest, and with
his companions became the first in the dreary list of victims sacrificed to the long search for a northwest
passage. [Footnote: Harrisse, Les Cortereal] When the second generation of explorers learned
that the land that had been discovered beyond the sea was not Asia, their first feeling was not exultation
that a new world had been discovered, but chagrin that a great barrier, stretching far to the north
and the south, should thus interpose itself between Europe and the
eastern goal on which their eyes were fixed.

Every navigator who sailed along the coast of North or South America looked eagerly for some strait
by which he might make his way through, and thus complete the journey
to the Spice Islands, to China, Japan, India, and the other lands
of the ancient East.

[Footnote: Bourne, Spain in America, chap viii.] Verrazzano, in 1521, and Jacques Cartier, in 1534,
1535, and 1541, both in the service of the king of France, and Gomez,
in the Spanish service, in 1521, were engaged in seeking this elusive
passage. [Footnote: Pigeonneau, Histoire du Commerce de la France, II,
142-148.] For more than a hundred years the French traders and explorers
along the St. Lawrence and the Great Lakes were led farther and farther
into the wilderness by hopes of finding some western outlet which
would make it possible for them to reach Cathay and India.

Englishmen, with greater persistence than Spaniards, Portuguese,
or French, pursued the search for this northwestern route to India.

To find such a passage became a dream and a constantly renewed effort of the navigators and
merchants of the days of Queen Elizabeth; the search for it continued
into the next century, even after colonies had been established in America
itself; and a continuance of the quest was constantly impressed by
the government and by popular opinion upon the merchants of the Hudson
Bay Company, till the eighteenth century.

A tradition grew up that there was a passage through the continent somewhere near the fortieth
parallel. It was in the search for this passage that Hudson was
engaged, when, in the service of the Dutch government, in 1609, he made
the famous voyage in the Half Moon and hit on the Hudson River; just
as in his first voyage he had tried to reach the Indies by crossing the
North Pole, and in his second by following a northeast route.

[Footnote: Asher, Henry Hudson, the Navigator, cxcii.-cxcvi.] Much of the exploration of the
coast of South America was made with the same purpose. To reach India was the deliberate
object of Magellan when, in 1519 and 1520, he skirted the coast of that continent and made his
way through the southern straits. The same objective point was intended
in the "Molucca Voyage" of 1526-1530, under the command of Sebastian
Cabot, [Footnote: Beazley, John and Sebastian Cabot, 152.] as well
as in other South American voyages of Spanish explorers.

Thus the search for a new route to the East lay at the back of many of
those voyages of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, which gradually
made America familiar to Europe. The same object was sought in explorations
to the eastward. The earliest voyages of the Portuguese along the
coast of Africa, it is true, had other motives; but the desire to
reach India grew upon the navigators and the sovereigns of that nation,
and from the accession of John II., in 1481, every nerve was strained
to find a route to the far East.

Within one twelvemonth, in the years 1486 and 1487, three expeditions
left the coast of Portugal seeking access to the East.

The first of these, under Bartholomew Diaz, discovered the Cape of Good Hope; the second was an embassy
of Pedro de Cavailham and Affonso de Paiva through the eastern Mediterranean to seek Prester
John, a search which carried one of them to the west coast of India, the other to the east coast
of Africa; the third was an exploring expedition to the northeast, which
reached, for the first time, the islands of Nova Zembla.

[Footnote: Beazley, Henry the Navigator.] The Portuguese ambition
was finally crowned with success in the exploit of Vasco da Gama
in reaching the coast of India by way of the southern point of Africa,
in 1498; the Spanish expedition under Magellan reached the same lands
by the westward route twenty years afterwards.

Even after these successes, efforts continued to be made to reach China and the Indies by
a northeast passage around the northern coast of Europe. Successive expeditions of Portuguese,
English, French, and Dutch were sent out only to meet invariable failure
in those icy seas, until the terrible hardships the explorers endured
gradually brought conviction of the impracticability of this, as
of the northwestern, route.

What was the origin of this eagerness to reach the Indies? Why did Portuguese, Spaniards,
English, French, and Dutch vie with one another in centuries of effort not only to discover
new lands, but to seek these sea-routes to the oldest of all lands? Why were the old lines of
intercourse between the East and the West almost deserted, and a new group of maritime nations
superseding the old Mediterranean and mid-European trading peoples? The
answer to these questions will be found in certain changes which were
in progress in those lands east of the Mediterranean Sea, which lie
on the border-line between Europe and Asia.

Through this region trade between Europe and the far East had flowed from immemorial antiquity;
but in the fifteenth century its channels were obstructed and its
stream much diminished.

Mediaeval Europe was dependent for her luxuries on Asia Minor and
Syria, Arabia and Persia, India and the Spice Islands, China and
Japan.

Precious stones and fabrics, dyes and perfumes, drugs and medicaments, woods, gums, and spices reached
Europe by many devious and obscure routes, but all from the eastward. One of the chief luxuries
of the Middle Ages was the edible spices. The monotonous diet, the coarse food, the unskilful
cookery of mediaeval Europe had all their deficiencies covered by a charitable mantle of Oriental seasoning.
Wines and ale were constantly used spiced with various condiments. In Sir Thopas's forest grew
"notemuge to putte in ale." [Footnote: Chaucer, Sir Thopas, line
52.] The brewster in the Vision of Piers Plowman declares: "I have
good ale, gossip, Glutton wilt thou essay?'What hast thou,'quoth he,'any
hot spices?'I have pepper and peony and a pound of garlic, A farthing-worth
of fennel seed for fasting days" [Footnote: Text C, passus VII, lines
355, etc.] Froissart has the king's guests led to "the palace, where
wine and spices were set before them."

[Footnote: Froissart, Chronicles, book II, chap lxxx] The dowry of
a Marseilles girl, in 1224, makes mention of "mace, ginger, cardamoms,
and galangale." [Footnote: Quoted in Beazley, Dawn of Modern Geography,
II, 433, n.] In the garden in the Romaunt of the Rose, "Ther was eek
wexing many a spyce, As clow-gelofre, and licoryce, Gingere, and
greyn de paradys, Canelle, and setewale of prys, And many a spyce
delitable, To eten when men ryse fro table."

[Footnote: Chaucer (Skeat's ed), lines 1367-1373.] When John Ball wished to draw a contrast
between the lot of the lords and the peasants, he said, "They have
wines, spices, and fine bread, when we have only rye and the refuse
of the straw."

[Footnote: Froissart, Chronicles, book II, chap lxxiii.] When old Latimer was being bound to
the stake he handed nutmegs to his friends as keepsakes. [Footnote: Froude, History of England.] Pepper,
the most common and at the same time the most valued of these spices, was frequently treated
as a gift of honor from one sovereign to another, or as a courteous form of payment instead of money.
"Matilda de Chaucer is in the gift of the king, and her land is worth
8 pounds, 2d, and 1 pound of pepper and 1 pound of cinnamon and 1
ounce of silk," reads a chance record in an old English survey.

[Footnote: Festa de Nevil, p 16.] The amount of these spices demanded and consumed was astonishing.
Venetian galleys, Genoese carracks, and other vessels on the Mediterranean brought many a cargo of
them westward, and they were sold in fairs and markets everywhere. "Pepper-sack" was a derisive and
yet not unappreciative epithet applied by German robber-barons to the merchants whom they plundered
as they passed down the Rhine. For years the Venetians had a contract to buy from the sultan of
Egypt annually 420,000 pounds of pepper.

One of the first vessels to make its way to India brought home 210,000 pounds. A fine of 200,000 pounds
of pepper was imposed upon one petty prince of India by the Portuguese in 1520. In romances and
chronicles, in cook-books, trades-lists, and customs-tariffs, spices are mentioned with a frequency
and consideration unknown in modern times. Yet the location of "the isles where the spices grow"
was very distant and obscure to the men of the Middle Ages. John Cabot, in 1497, said that he "was once
at Mecca, whither the spices are brought by caravans from distant countries, and having inquired
from whence they were brought and where they grew, the merchants
answered that they did not know, but that such merchandise was brought
from distant countries by other caravans to their home; and they further
say that they are also conveyed from other remote regions."

[Footnote: Letter of Soncino, in Hart, Contemporaries, I., 70.] Such
lack of knowledge was pardonable, considering that Marco Polo, one
of the most observant of travellers, after spending years in Asia,
believed, mistakenly, that nutmegs and cloves were produced in Java.

[Footnote:
Marco Polo (Yule's ed.), book III., chap vi., 217, n.] It was only after more direct intercourse
was opened up with the East that their true place of production became
familiarly known in Europe.

Nutmegs and mace, cloves and allspice were the native products of
but one little spot on the earth's surface: a group of small islands,
Banda, Amboyna, Ternate, Tidore, Pulaway, and Prelaroon, the southernmost
of the Moluccas, or Spice Islands, just under the equator, in the
midst of the Malay Archipelago.

Their light, volcanic soil, kept moist by the constant damp winds and hot by the beams of an overhead
sun, furnished the natural conditions in which the spice-trees grew. Here the handsome shrubs
that-yield the nutmeg and its covering of mace produced a continuous crop of flowers and fruit
all the year around. Cloves grew in the same islands, as clusters
of scarlet buds, hanging at the ends of the branches of trees which
rise to a greater height and grow with even a greater luxuriance
than the nutmeg-bushes.

[Footnote: Wallace, The Malay Archipelago, chap. xix.] Pepper had
scarcely a wider field of production.

The forests that clothed a stretch of the Malabar coast of India some two hundred miles in length,
and extending some miles back into the interior, were filled with an
abundant growth of pepper-vines.

One of the earliest of European travellers in India, Odoric de Pordenone,
says: "The province where pepper grows is named Malabar, and in no other
part of the world does pepper grow except in this country.

The forest where it grows is about eighteen days in length."

[Footnote: Odoric de Pordenone (D'Avezac's ed), chap. x.] John Marignolli,
in 1348, also speaks of this district as "where the world's pepper is
produced."

[Footnote: Quoted in Marco Polo (Yule's ed), II., 314, n., and Sir John
Mandeville, chap, xviii.] Its habitat was, however, somewhat more
extensive, for in less abundance and of inferior quality the pepper-vines
were raised all the way south to Cape Comorin, and even in the islands
of Ceylon and Sumatra.

Cinnamon-bark was the special product of the mountain-slopes in the interior of Ceylon, but this also
grew on the Indian coast to the westward, [Footnote: Marco Polo (Yule's ed),
book III, chaps, xiv., xxv.] and, in the form of cassia of several
varieties, was obtained in Thibet, in the interior provinces of China,
and in some of the islands of the Malay Archipelago.

Ginger was produced in many parts of the East; in Arabia, India, and China. Odoric attributes to a
certain part of India "the best ginger that can be found in the world"


"'I haven't seen one yet, you know.'

"The fellow looked furtively at the door and then, diving into an inner pocket, pulled out
a handsome gold watch with a massive chain attached, exhibited it for a moment and then dropped
it back.

"'That's the little article,' said he, 'and before you makes a bid, you can look it over and
try if the stuff's genu-wine. But not out here, you know. We does our deal inside where you
can't get ogled by a cooper through the winder.'

"I saw the plan at a glance, and, in the main, approved, though three at once was a bigger
handful than I should have desired. They would require careful treatment.

"'I will just go and see that it's all clear,' I said; and with this I retired to the parlor,
quietly bolting the door behind me.

"Once inside, I made my simple preparations rapidly. Placing the concussor in a tall cylindrical
basket close to the cellar door, I opened the latter and hitched the rope in a position where
I could grasp it easily. Then I took from the cupboard the tin of cart-grease, and, with a
large knife, spread a thick layer of the grease on the upper four steps of the cellar stairs.
While thus engaged, I turned over my plans quickly but with considerable misgivings. The odds
were greater than I ought to have taken. For, as to the intentions of these men, I could have
no reasonable doubt. Bamber was known to me and he would not run the risk of my giving information.
The amiable intention of these gentry was to 'do me in,' as they would have expressed it, and
the vital question for me was, How did they mean to do it? Firearms they would probably avoid
on account of the noise, but if they all came at me at once with knives my chance would be
infinitesimal.

"It comes back to me now rather oddly that I weighed these probabilities quite impersonally,
as though I were a mere spectator. And such was virtually the case. The fact is that, although
I had long since abandoned the idea of suicide, I remained alive as a matter of principle and
not by personal desire. My objection to being killed was merely the abstract objection to the
killing of any worthy member of society by these human vermin. But if any such person must
needs be killed, I was quite indifferent as to whether the subject of the action were myself
or some other. I had no personal interest in the matter. Hence, when I unbolted the door and
beckoned the three men into the room, though doubtful of the issue, I had no feeling of nervousness.

"The advantage that my impassiveness gave me over those three rascals was very evident when
they slouched in, for they were all trembling and twitching with nervous excitement. And no
wonder. To a man who values his life above everything on earth, it is a serious matter to walk
into the very shadow of the gallows. As soon as they were inside, one of them, who looked like
a Polish Jew, bolted the door; and then they gathered round me like a pack of hyenas.

"I backed unostentatiously into the corner by the cellar door, talking volubly to the three
men by turn as I went; and the Jew edged along the wall to get behind me. I realized that he
was the one whom I had to watch, and I watched him; not looking at him, but keeping him on
the periphery of my field of vision. For, as is well known, the peripheral area of the retina,
although insensitive to impressions of form, is highly sensitive to impressions of movement.

"My remarks on the danger to respectable persons of meddling with stolen property gave Mr.
Bamber his cue.

"'Stolen property,' he roared. ''Oo said anything about stolen property? What d'yer mean, yer
bloomin' scalp-scraper!' and he advanced threateningly with his chin stuck forward and a most
formidable scowl.

"In the next few moments I reaped the reward of my strenuous practice at the gymnasium of the
art of Jiu-jitsu and the French style of boxing. Bamber's advance was the signal. I had seen
the Jew's hand steal under his coat skirt. He now made a quick movement--and so did I. Whisking
round, in an instant I had his wrist in that kind of grip that dislocates the elbow-joint,
and, as I turned, I planted my foot heavily on Spotty Bamber's chest. The swift movement took
them all by surprise. The Jew screamed and dropped his knife, staggering heavily against the
cellar door, which swung back on its well-oiled hinges. Bamber flew backwards like a football,
and, as he cannoned against the third man, the two crashed together to the floor. I thrust
the Jew through the open doorway, released his wrist; and then followed a slithering sound
from the cellar steps, ending in a soft thump.

"The position was marvelously changed in those few moments. The Jew, I took it, was eliminated,
and the odds thus brought down to a reasonable figure. As to the other two, though they scrambled
to their feet quickly enough, they kept their distance, Bamber in particular having some little
difficulty with his breath. I picked up the concussor and faced them. If I had been quick,
I could have dispatched them both without difficulty. But I did not. Once more I was aware
of that singular state of consciousness to which I have elsewhere alluded as possessing me
in the presence of violent criminals; a vivid pleasure in the mere act of physical contest,
perfectly incomprehensible to me in my normal state of mind. This strange joy now sent the
blood surging through my brain until my ears hummed; and yet I kept my judgment, calmly attentive
and even wary.

"Thus, when the third ruffian rushed at me with a large sheath-knife, I knocked his hand aside
quite neatly with the concussor and drove him out of range with a heavy blow of my left fist.
But at this moment I observed Bamber frantically lugging something from his hip-pocket; something
that was certainly not a knife. No statute or other formal action provided for the original creation
of the lord-lieutenancy, and it is probable that Henry VIII. simply began the habit of delegating
his military power in the shires to such officers.

Early in the reign of Edward VI., October, 1549, they are mentioned as existing in the counties,
and by 1600 their office was fully established. [Footnote: 3 and 4 Ed VI, chap v, in Statutes
of the Realm, IV, 107.] This position was usually held by the greatest nobleman with estates
in the county, and he appointed as his deputies various knights and gentlemen of high position;
as when, in 1626, the duke of Buckingham was lord-lieutenant of Bucks, and Sir Edward Verney
and five others were his deputies in that county. Although purely honorary, the appointment
was one of much dignity and responsibility in military matters.

It was the duty of the lord-lieutenant in times of peace to see that
the musters of the trained bands were regularly held, that the militia-men
had their arms, and that men of higher rank who owed military service
to the crown were prepared to perform it; in time of war to levy, muster,
and train soldiers, fix the quotas of the hundreds and townships, see
to the payment of troops, the collection of horses, and equipment
generally, until the recruits were actually handed over to their officers.
It was also their duty to see that the beacons were kept in order.

The lords-lieutenant must be present, by an order of 1615, nine months
in the year [Footnote: Cal. of State Pap., Dom., 1611-1618, p. 337.]
in their counties; but there was no such rigorous requirement of constant
residence as in the case of the sheriff, nor was the appointment restricted
to a single year.

Such an official as the lord-lieutenant was not likely to be left unburdened with other duties
when the government was struggling to obtain the enforcement of
its laws, and, as a matter of fact, functions quite unmilitary were
imposed upon him. In 1637 the council orders the lords-lieutenant
of six of the eastern counties to assist in the better enforcement
of the acts for the drainage of the marshes.

[Footnote: Cal. of State Pap., Dom., 1637, p. 92.] In 1621 they are to investigate frauds of his
majesty's carters. [Footnote: Hist. MSS. Commission, Report VII., App., 670.] They are asked to help
collect subsidies and benevolences, to search for popish recusants, to oversee ale-houses, slaughter-houses,
and the assize of bread and ale, to assist in the administration of
poor relief and the suppression of vagrancy.

[Footnote: Chetham Society, Lancashire Lieutenancy, I, Int., 19; Camden Society, Verney Papers,
37, 88.] In 1619 the Lords of the Council write to the lieutenant of Surrey asking him to urge
co-operation in a lottery for the success of "the English colonies planted
in Virginia, to accept the sums adventured, and to report to the treasurer
and council of Virginia." He was elected by the freeholders of the county
in the county court, and his oath was administered by the county
clerk.

He was, therefore, more distinctly local and representative than the other county officers, who
were appointed by the crown; and as a result he was the only officer whose office did not terminate
with the death of the king. Notwithstanding the generality of duties indicated by his name, "custos
placitarum coronae," his functions were few beyond the fundamental duty of investigating sudden
deaths and binding over for trial such persons as were indicated by the jury through which he made
his inquest. [Footnote: Smith, Commonwealth of England, book II., chap. xxiv.] Under some circumstances
the coroner took the place of the sheriff, and in general his position
looked back to a time when it was of greater significance than it
had become in the seventeenth century.

[Footnote: Greenwood, The County Court, 258.] CHAPTER XV ENGLISH JUSTICES OF THE PEACE (1600-1650)
However extensive the duties of the officers whose functions are described above, the real men-of-all-work
in the counties at this time were the justices of the peace. The law required that a justice
of the peace must have lands and tenements to the value of L 20 a year, the amount of the
legal knight's fee; [Footnote: 18 Henry VI., chap. xi] but ordinarily he had much greater property.
John Evelyn's father, who has been so often referred to as a typical
country gentleman of the early seventeenth century, had an estate
of L 4000 a year when he was successively sheriff and justice of the
peace.

[Footnote: Evelyn, Diary, year 1634] The justice of the peace, like
the sheriff, the lord-lieutenant, and the coroner, was expected to
perform his public services as part of his patriotic duty.

It is true that certain statutes provided that part of the fines
for any violation should go to the justices before whom the violators
were prosecuted; two or three others gave small fees to the justice
for affixing his seal or signing a document; but these were apparently
casual efforts to secure enforcement, and can have brought no appreciable
return to the justices.

The law gave each justice 2s. for each day of quarter-sessions up
to three days; but this could have produced at most only 6s., and
seems to have been usually jointly expended by the magistrates in
a dinner.

In an interesting speech by a Mr. Glascock in the House of Commons, December 16, 1601, two
equally undesirable justices are described-- first, the one "who
from base stock and lineage by his wealth is gotten to be within
the commission"; the other "a gentleman born, virtuous, discreet,
and wise, yet poor and needy.

And so only for his virtues and qualities put into the commission.
This man I hold unfit to be a justice, though I think him to be a good
member in the commonwealth. Because I hold this for a ground infallible--
that no poor man ought to be in authority.

My reason is this: he will so bribe you and extort you that the sweet
scent of riches and gain taketh away and confoundeth the true taste
of justice and equity." [Footnote: Townshend, Proceedings, 953, 954]
But burdensome as the duties of a justice must have been, and almost
unpaid as they were, the office does not seem to have been avoided
as was that of sheriff.

Probably such service was taken as a matter of course by the gentry, and compensation was found in the
stamp of social position it placed upon them, and in the sense of power, as well as of a patriotic
fulfilment of duty. It was sometimes a matter of complaint that "with us these magistrates
have been so unsuitably appointed that a county justice is made a jest in comedies, and his character
the subject of buffoonery and laughter." [Footnote: Carey, English Liberties, 275] This is an obvious
reference to Justice Shallow and other worthies of the dramatists.
It is dangerous to make too serious an inference from contemporary
comedies, because certain personages soon became stock characters
and ceased to have any very close relation to actual life, and in
this particular instance Shakespeare was probably gratifying an old
grudge.

Nevertheless, there was evidently some foundation for this picture of the county justice. Dorothy
Osborne, in one of her delightful letters to Sir William Temple, in giving her requirements for a
husband, pokes fun at such ambitions.

[Footnote: Letters of Dorothy Osborne to Sir William Temple, letter 36 (ed. by Parry), p 171]
With all these criticisms, and in the face of occasional ineptitude, the body of justices of
the peace included much ability. It was scarcely possible for a justice to act without some knowledge
of Latin, as almost all the records and documents which he would
have to make, read, or sign were in that language.

A succession of text-books on the duties of the office, the more important of them appearing
in many successive editions, proves an intelligent interest and demand for instruction in their
duties. Moreover, the men who served as justices were often well known in other ways, many of them
as sheriffs, as members of Parliament, and in still other capacities. They were of families
who provided the active men of enterprise of the period. The list of Devonshire justices in 1592 includes
Sir Francis Drake, Sir Ferdinando Gorges, Gilberts, Carews, Seymours, Courtenays, and other
names prominent among the men who laid the foundations of the maritime greatness of England
and of the existence of America. Of the fifty-five, twenty-eight were at one time or another
high-sheriffs of the county, twenty more were then, or became afterwards, knights, six sat
in the House of Commons, and three in the House of Lords. [Footnote: Hamilton, Devonshire Quarter-Sessions,
3, 330-348.] The justices of the peace were fair representatives of that great class of rural gentry which
exercised so strong an influence over the destinies of England in the sixteenth, seventeenth, and
eighteenth centuries.

From this class were drawn all the county officials who have been named, except the lord-lieutenant; from
it were chosen the county representatives to Parliament; and in it were found the strength
and the weakness of the English political system. James I., in appealing
to the country gentry to continue to live on their estates in their
counties, said to them, "Gentlemen, at London you are like ships in
a sea, which shew like nothing, but in your country villages you are
like ships in a river, which look like great things."

[Footnote: Bacon, Apothegms, in Works (Spedding and Heath ed), VII., 125.] Out of this body of rural
gentry from twenty to sixty in each county were chosen by the lord-chancellor to serve as justices
of the peace.

[Footnote: Lambard, Eirenarcha, book I., chap. v.] The "commission of the peace," by which the
justices were appointed and from which they drew their powers, was a
formula well known and constantly quoted and commented upon, and
added to from time to time until late in the sixteenth century.

In was then, in 1590, revised and formulated anew by Sir Christopher May, Chief-Justice, with
the advice of all the other judges of the time, and has not been changed from that day to this.
[Footnote: Ibid., book II., chap. vii.] The justices of the peace performed some of their duties
separately, acting individually as circumstances required, or as proved convenient to themselves.
Other powers they could exercise only when two or more acted together and concurrently. Still
others, and those far the most important and dignified, they performed in a body at their "quarter-sessions."
What things a justice might do singly, what two, three, or four justices might do together,
and what they might do only in the formal sessions of the whole body of justices of the peace of
the county were defined partly in the statutes, partly in the commission under which they acted.
The regular or quarter-sessions were meetings held four times a year--
in October, midwinter, spring, and midsummer-- at which all the justices
of the peace of the county were supposed to be present.

There were, besides, occasional irregular sessions, or meetings of the regular sessions adjourned
from one time to another. In corporate towns the city officers acted as justices of the peace,
reinforced usually by some others especially appointed; and each
town followed its own customs as to meeting in general sessions.

Although the law contemplated the attendance of all the justices of the county at each quarter-sessions,
as a matter of fact the attendance was very irregular and incomplete, few of the records, so far as published,
showing an attendance of as many as a dozen out of perhaps forty or fifty. Most of them evidently came
riding up to quarter-sessions if it suited their convenience and remained away if it did not, restricting
their services to those duties which could be performed in their own neighborhoods, and leaving
to a few active, regular, and hardworking magistrates the responsibilities
of the higher work. [Footnote: West Riding Sessions Rolls; Manchester
Quarter-Sessions, passim.] Of those who made up quarter-sessions one
at least must be "of the quorum."

This expression is taken from the commission of the justices of the
peace, which in the clause giving to the justices the power to inquire
and determine by oath of the jurors as to felonies and other offences
and to punish them, after naming all those to whom the commission
for that county is issued, says, quorum aliquem vestrum, A, B, C,
etc., unum esse volumus (of whom we wish you, A, B, C, etc., to be
one), naming presumably such as were learned in the law or otherwise
especially trustworthy.

[Footnote: Lambarde, Eirenarcha, book I., chap. ix.] As without the presence of one of the "quorum" no
quarter-sessions could be held, to be a "justice of the peace and of the quorum" was to be one of a select
list of the justices. One-third or one-half of the list of those in the commission were usually
named also in the quorum. In addition to the justices there should, according to law, be present
at quarter-sessions, in the first place, the custos rotulorum, or keeper of the rolls of
the sessions, the "custalorum" of Justice Shallow. [Footnote: Merry Wives of Windsor, act i., sc.
i.] This was always one of the justices of high rank indicated to
the lord-chancellor for appointment by the king himself, [Footnote:
37 Henry VIII., chap i.] and was very apt to be the lord-lieutenant
of the county.

He could be, and probably was, usually represented at the sessions by a deputy, who was a person
of considerable importance and influence, upon whom much responsibility was placed by the statutes,
and whose abilities must have been constantly relied upon by the
magistrates.

The title of this deputy was "clerk of the peace," the predecessor apparently of the American county clerk.
He was usually familiar with the law, and his knowledge of precedents and procedure must often have stood
the unlearned justices in good stead, besides the work which he performed in drawing up indictments,
writing orders, and keeping records.

Besides
the custos and the clerk, the sheriff or his deputy were bound to be present prepared to empanel
jurors and execute process; as well as the jailer ready to produce
his prisoners; the superintendent of the county house of correction;
all jurors who had been summoned by the sheriff; all persons who had
been bound over by single justices to appear at quarter-sessions;
all high constables and bailiffs of hundreds; and the coroners.

[Footnote: Dalton, Officium Vicecomitum, chaps, xxxiv., clxxxv.] The
quarter-sessions should, by law, be kept for three continuous days
if there was any need; [Footnote: 12 Richard II, chap. x.] but, as
a matter of fact, sessions seldom lasted more than a day, and a contemporary
complains that "many doe scantly afford them three whole hours, besides
the time which is spent in calling of the county and giving of the
charge."

[Footnote: Lambarde, Eirenarcha, book IV., chap. xix.] The powers and
duties of the justices of the peace in quarter-sessions and separately
were so considerable and varied as to tax the ability of an Elizabethan
or Jacobean text-book writer to reduce them to simplicity of statement,
or to the compass of five or six hundred pages of enumeration.

Many of these powers were general, arising from the nature of the office
for the "conservation of the peace"; but the great mass of their duties
was placed upon them by statutes. Ten early statutes are enumerated in the
commission itself, before coming to the inclusive "and cause to be
kept all other ordinances and statutes made for the good of our peace
and the quiet rule and government of our people."

From the middle of the fifteenth century forward, the enforcement of the
greater number of new laws was placed primarily in the hands of the
justices of the peace. As time passed on legislation became more and more minute
and inclusive. Few interests in human life escaped the paternal attention
of government under the Tudors and Stuarts, and this great mass of
enactment it became the duty of the groups of country gentry in the
counties and of the civic magistrates of the towns to put into force.

A writer of the time enumerates two hundred and ninety-three statutes
passed previous to 1603 in which justices of the peace are mentioned
and given some jurisdiction or duties.

[Footnote: Lambarde, Eirenarcha, book IV., chap, xix., Table, App.]
Under Elizabeth alone there were seventy-eight, ranging from the
"preservation of spawn and frie of fish" to those "touching bulls
from Rome."

The infrequent and short-lived parliaments of James I. added thirty-six to the list. [Footnote:
Dalton, The Country Justice, Table of Contents.] Although many of these laws are repetitions,
some others temporary or local, still others insignificant, yet,
on the other hand, some of them opened up whole new fields of activity
to the justices: as, for instance, those placing upon them, after
1563, the administration of the Act of Apprentice; and, after 1581,
the responsibility for the search for and punishment of popish recusants.

A whole code of law, procedure, and precedent grew up on these two subjects, besides others
scarcely less extensive. Quarter-sessions had nothing to do with civil suits, and cases of treason,
murder, and certain other high crimes were excluded from their competence.

Apart from this restriction and these offences, there was little difference between sessions
and assizes, between the jurisdiction of the learned judges of the king in their half-yearly circuit
and that of the county magistrates in their quarter-sessions. Before them both grand and petty juries
were empanelled, indictments drawn up, prisoners tried for assault, burglary, horse-stealing,
witchcraft, pocket-picking, keeping up nuisances, cheating, failure to attend church, and
almost all other offences of which seventeenth-century Englishmen were capable. If convicted they
were placed in the stocks, whipped, or hanged.

In Devonshire, in the midwinter sessions of 1598, out of sixty-five
culprits who were tried eight were hanged; at midsummer, out of forty-five
eight were hanged, thirteen flogged, seven acquitted, and seven, on
account of their claim of benefit of clergy, were branded and then
released.

[Footnote: Hamilton, Devonshire Quarter-Sessions, 33.] The justices
in sessions or singly also performed much administrative work, such
as the oversight and repair of bridges, the granting of licenses to
ale-houses, the establishment of wages, the binding out of apprentices,
and the relief of wounded soldiers.

Many laws passed under Elizabeth and James I. admitted of exceptions when approved by one or more
justices of the peace, and there was thus constant occasion for granting to individual persons
or at special times permission to export grain, to turn their barley
into malt, to build cottages without land attached, to carry hand-guns,
to buy and sell out of market-hours, to beg, and other dispensations
from the rigorous application of the law.

[Footnote: Ibid., 27, 164, etc.] The punishing of recusants and the discipline of those who refused
or neglected to go to church was, as already stated, an active occupation of the justices. At
certain times, such as the period just following the Gunpowder Plot, when the search was for Catholics,
and somewhat later, when the search was for Puritans and Separatists, the Privy Council brought
severe pressure upon the justices to fulfill these duties, and numerous prosecutions were brought
by them.
Like me to show you that door?'

"I said that I should like it very much, and accordingly, when the trimming operations were
concluded and I had secured a wisp of Mr. Towler's hair for subsequent examination, we ascended
to the second floor front and he demonstrated the hidden door.

"'It's in this 'ere cupboard, under that row of pegs. That peg underneath at the side is the
'andle. You catches 'old of it, so, and you gives a pull to the right.' He suited the action
to the words, and, with a loud groan, the middle third of the back of the cupboard slid bodily
to the right, leaving an opening about three feet square, beyond which was a solid-looking
panel with a small knob at the left-hand side.

"'That,' whispered Towler, 'is the back of a cupboard in the next 'ouse. If you was to pull
that 'andle to the right, it would slide along same as this one. Only I expect there's somebody
in the room there.'

"I rewarded Mr. Towler with half a sovereign, which he evidently thought liberal, and he departed
gleefully. Shortly afterwards I learned that he had 'got a stretch' in connection with a 'job'
at Camberwell; and he vanished from my ken. But I did not forget the sliding doors. No special
use for them suggested itself, but their potentialities were so obvious that I resolved to
keep a sharp eye on the second floor front next door.

"I had not long to wait. Presently the whole floor was advertised by a card on the street door
as being to let and I seized the opportunity of a quiet Sunday to reconnoiter and put the arrangements
in going order. I slid back the panel on my own side and then, dragging at the handle, pushed
back the second panel. Both moved noisily and would require careful treatment. I passed through
the square opening into the vacant room and looked round, but there was little to see, though
a good deal to smell, for the windows were hermetically sealed and a closed stove fitted into
the fireplace precluded any possibility of ventilation. The aroma of the late tenants still
lingered in the air.

"I returned through the opening and began my labors. First, with a hard brush I cleaned out
both sets of grooves, top and bottom. Then, into each groove I painted a thick coating of tallow
and black lead, mixed into a paste and heated. By moving the panels backwards and forwards
a great number of times I distributed the lubricant and brought the black lead to such a polish
that the doors slid with the greatest ease and without a sound. I was so pleased with the result
that I was tempted to engage the room next door, but as this might have aroused suspicion--seeing
that I had a whole house already--I refrained; and shortly afterwards the floor was taken by
a family of Polish Jews, who apparently supplemented their income by letting part of it furnished.

"I now pass over an intervening period and come to the circumstances of one of my most interesting
and stirring experiences. It was about this time that some misbegotten mechanician invented
the automatic magazine pistol, and thereby rendered possible a new and execrable type of criminal.
It was not long before the appropriate criminal arrived. The scene of the first appearance
was the suburb of Tottenham, where two Russian Poles attempted, and failed in, an idiotic street
robbery. The attempt was made in broad daylight in the open street, and the two wretches, having
failed, ran away, shooting at every human being they met. In the end they were both killed--one
by his own hand--but not until they had murdered a gallant constable and a poor little child
and injured in all, twenty-two persons.

"I read the newspaper account with deep interest and the conviction that this was only a beginning.
Those two frenzied degenerates belonged to a common enough type; the type of the Slav criminal
who has not sense enough to take precautions nor courage enough to abide the fortune of war.
The automatic pistol, I felt sure, would bring him into view; and I was not mistaken.

"One night, returning from a tour of inspection, I met a small excited crowd accompanying a
procession of three police ambulances. I joined the throng and presently turned into a small
blind thoroughfare in which had gathered a small and nervous-looking crowd and a few flurried
policemen. Several of the windows were shattered and on the ground were three prostrate figures.
One was dead, the others were badly wounded, and all three were members of the police force.

"I watched the ambulances depart with their melancholy burdens and then turned for information
to a bystander. He had not much to give, but the substance of his account--confirmed later
by the newspapers--was this: The police had located a gang of suspected burglars and three
officers had come to the house to make arrests. They had knocked at the door, which, after
some delay, was opened. Some person within had immediately shot one of the officers dead and
the entire gang of four or five had rushed out, fired point blank at the other two officers,
and then raced up the street shooting right and left like madmen. Several people had been wounded
and, grievous to relate, the whole gang of miscreants had made their escape into the surrounding
slums.

"I was profoundly interested and even excited for several reasons. In the first place, here
at last was the real Lombroso criminal, the sub-human mattoid, devoid of intelligence, devoid
of the faintest glimmering of moral sense, fit for nothing but the lethal chamber; compared
with whom the British 'habitual' was a civilized gentleman. Without a specimen or two of this
type, my collection was incomplete. Then there was the evident applicability of my methods
to this class of offender; methods of quiet extermination without fuss, public disorder or
risk to the precious lives of the police. But beyond these there was another reason for my
interest. The murder of my wife had been a purposeless, unnecessary crime, committed by some
wretch to whom human life was a thing of no consideration. There was an analogy in the circumstances
that seemed to connect that murder with this type of miscreant. It was even possible that one
of these very villains might be the one whom I had so patiently sought through the long and
weary years.

"The thought fired me with a new enthusiasm. Forthwith I started to pursue the possible course
of the fugitives, threading countless by-streets and alleys, peering into squalid courts and
sending many a doubtful-looking loiterer shuffling hastily round the nearest corner. Of course
it was fruitless. I had no clue and did not even know the men. I was merely walking off my
own excitement.

"Nevertheless, every night as soon as I had closed my shop, I set forth on a voyage of exploration,
impelled by sheer restlessness; and during the day I listened eagerly to the talk of my customers
in Yiddish--a language of which I was supposed to be entirely ignorant. But I learned nothing.
Either the fugitives were unknown, or the natural secretiveness of an alien people forbade
any reference to them, even among themselves; and meanwhile, as I have said, I tramped the
streets nightly into the small hours of the morning.

"Returning from one of these expeditions a little earlier than usual, I found a small party
of policemen and a sprinkling of idlers gathered opposite the house next door. There was no
need to ask what was doing. The suppressed excitement of the officers and the service revolvers
in their belts told the story. There was going to be another slaughter; and I was probably
too late for any but a spectator's part.

"The street door was open and the house was being quietly emptied of its human occupants. They
came out one by one, shivering and complaining, with little bundles of their possessions hastily
snatched up, and collected in a miserable group on the pavement. I opened my shop door and
invited them to come in and rest while their messengers went to look for a harbor of refuge;
but I stayed outside to see the upshot of the proceedings.

"When the last of the tenants had come out, a sergeant emerged and quietly closed the street
door with a latch-key. The rest of the policemen took up sheltered positions in doorways after
warning the idlers to disperse and the sergeant turned to me.

"'Now, Mr. Vosper, you'd better keep your nose indoors if you don't want it shot off. There's
going to be trouble presently.' He pushed me gently into the shop and shut the door after me.

"I found the evicted tenants chattering excitedly and very unhappy. But they were not rebellious.
They were mostly Jews, and Jews are a patient, submissive people. I boiled some water in my
little copper and made some coffee, which they drank gratefully--out of shaving mugs; my outfit
of crockery being otherwise rather limited. And meanwhile they talked volubly and I listened.

"'I vunder,' said a stout, elderly Jewess, 'how der bolice know dose shentlemens gom to lotch
mit me. Zumpotty must haf toldt dem.'

"'Yus,' agreed an evicted tenant of doubtful occupation, 'some bloomin' nark has giv 'em away.
Good job too. Tain't playin' the game for to go pottin' at the coppers like that there. Coppers
'as got their job to do same as what we 'ave. You know that, Mrs. Kosminsky.'

"'Ja, dat is droo,' said the Jewess; 'but dey might let me bring my dings mit me. Do-morrow
is Ky-fox-tay. Now I lose my money.'

"'How is that, Mrs. Kosminsky?' I asked.

"'Pecause I shall sell dem not, de dings vot I buy for Ky-fox-tay; de fireworks, de gragers,
de masgs and oder dings vor de chiltrens. Dvendy-vaive shillings vort I buy. Dey are in my
room on ze zecond floor. I ask de bolice to let me vetch dem, hot dey say no; I shall disturb
de chentlemens in de front room. Zo I lose my money pecause I sell dem not.' Here the unfortunate
woman burst into tears and I was so much affected by her distress that I instantly offered
to buy the whole consignment for two pounds, whereat she wept more copiously than ever, but
collected the purchase-money with great promptitude and stowed it away in a very internal pocket,
displaying in the process as many layers of clothing as an old-fashioned pen-wiper.

"'Ach! Mizder Fosper, you are zo coot to all de boor beebles, dough you are only a boor man
yourzelf. Bot it is de boor vot is de vriendts of de boor;' and in her gratitude she would
have kissed my hands if I had not prudently stuck them in my trousers pockets.

"A messenger now arrived to say that a refuge had been secured for the night, and my guests
departed with many thanks and benedictions. The street, as I looked out, was now quite deserted
save for one or two prowling policemen, who, apparently bored with their hiding-places, had
come forth to patrol in the open. I did not stay to watch them, for Mrs. Kosminsky's remarks
had started a train of thought which required to be carried out quickly. Accordingly I went
in and fell to pacing the empty shop.

"The police, I assumed, were waiting for daylight to rush the house. It was a mad plan and
yet I was convinced that they had no other. And when they should enter, in the face of a stream
of bullets from those terrible automatic pistols, what a carnage there would be! It was frightful
to think of. Why does the law permit those cowards' tools to be made and sold? A pistol is
the one weapon that has no legitimate use. An axe, a knife--even a rifle, has some lawful function.
But a pistol is an appliance for killing human beings. It has no other purpose whatever. A
man who is found with house-breaking tools in his possession is assumed to be a house-breaker.
Surely a man who carries a pistol convicts himself of the intention to kill somebody.

"But perhaps the police had some reasonable plan. It was possible, but it was very unlikely.
The British policeman is a grand fellow, brave as a lion and ready to march cheerfully into
the mouth of hell if duty calls. But he knows no tactics. His very courage is almost a disadvantage,
leading him to disdain reasonable caution. I felt that our guardians were again going to sacrifice
themselves to these vermin. It was terrible. It was a wicked waste of precious lives. Could
nothing be done to prevent it?

"According to Mrs. Kosminsky, the 'chentlemens' were in the second floor front--the room with
the sliding panel. Then I could, at least, keep a watch on them. I walked slowly upstairs gnashing
my teeth with irritation. The sacrifice was so unnecessary. I could think, offhand, of half
a dozen ways of annihilating these wretches without risking a single hair of any decent person's
head. And here were the police, with all the resources of science at their disposal and practically
unlimited time in which to work, actually contemplating a fight with all the odds against them!

"I stole into the second floor front and, by the light of a match, found the cupboard. The
inside panel--as I will call the one on my side--slid back without a sound. There was now only
the second panel between me and the next room, and I could plainly hear the murmur of voices
and sounds of movement. But I could not distinguish what was being said; and as this was of
some importance, I determined to try the other panel. Grasping the handle, I gave a firm but
gradual pull, and felt the panel slide back quite silently for a couple of inches. Instantly
the voices became perfectly distinct and a whiff of foul, stuffy air came through, with a faint
glimmer of light; by which I knew that the cupboard on their side was at least partly open.

"'I tell you, Piragoff,' a voice said in Russian, 'you are nervous about nothing. The police
are looking for us, but they know none of us by sight. We can go about quite safely.'

"'I am not so sure,' replied another voice--presumably Piragoff's. 'The babbling fool who let
us the house may talk more; and who knows but some of our own people may betray us. That woman
Kosminsky looked very queerly at us, I thought.'

"'Bah!' exclaimed the other. 'Come and lie down, Piragoff. Tomorrow we will leave this place
and separate. We shall go away for a time and they will forget us. In Saxony, in Hesse, in South
Germany, and in Moravia; in the cities of Constance, Strasburg, Augsburg,
and Nuremberg; in the Netherlands and in Switzerland, there was much
preaching and formation of independent religious communities quite
apart from, and indeed in opposition to, the official Reformation.

[Footnote: Moeller, Hist, of the Christian Church (English trans.), III., 36, 64, 88, 94.] These
radical preachers and their followers represented very different beliefs and practices. That
which was common to them all was an acceptance of the Bible literally interpreted as a guide both
to doctrine and to church organization. The effort to return to the apostolic organization
of the church led them to reject any but an unpaid ministry, and to insist that none should be
members of their congregations except such as were personally converted and who conformed their
lives to the teachings of the Bible.

Their idea was, therefore, the formation of little companies separated from the surrounding people
of the world rather than the Lutheran or Zwinglian plan of a reorganization of the national
church on Protestant lines en masse. An austere piety, the wearing of plain clothes, the avoidance
of forms of social respect, the refusal to take an oath or to hold civil office, an assertion
of the sinfulness of paying or receiving tithes or interest, an approach to communistic practice
in matters of property-- some or all of these were widely disseminated among the lower classes
of the people to whom such teachings principally appealed.

The doctrine which came nearest to being a point of uniformity and a possible bond of union among
these reformers was their objection to infant baptism. To them baptism was the mark of a personally
attained relation to Christ, and was, therefore, meaningless when administered to an unconscious
infant. Certain "prophets" who came to Wittenberg from Zwickau confronted Luther and Melancthon with
this principle as early as 1521; and radical reformers proclaimed
it in opposition to Zwingli at Zurich in 1523.

Everywhere advocacy of an exact adherence to the verbal teaching of Holy Writ and a rejection
of the claims of an established church, were accompanied by opposition to infant baptism.
In 1525 for the first time the logical deduction from their premises
was made; those baptized only in their infancy were asserted not to
have been effectively baptized at all, and were rebaptized as a sign
of their conversion. I tried the pipe against
the opening and found that it would rest comfortably on the lower edge; and then, very slowly
and cautiously, I drew back the sliding panel about six inches. The ruffians were still wrangling
on the same subject, for I heard one exclaim:

"'Don't be a fool, Piragoff. You'll only attract attention if you go nosing about downstairs.'

"'I don't care,' was the answer; 'I feel uneasy. I must go down and see that all is quiet before
I go to sleep.' Here the sound of the opening and shutting of the door put an end to the discussion,
save for a torrent of curses and maledictions from the two remaining men. But in a few moments
the door opened noisily and Piragoff shouted:

"'Come out! Come out! The house is empty! We are betrayed.'

"A howl of dismay was the answer. The two wretches burst into a grotesque mixture of weeping
and cursing, and I heard them literally dancing about the room in the ecstasy of their terror.

"'Come out!' repeated Piragoff. 'We will kill them all! We will shoot those pigs, every one
of them! Some of us shall get away. Come!'

"'It is of no use, Piragoff,' whimpered one of his comrades. 'They are in the house. It is
an ambush.'

"'Yes,' cried the third man, 'it is as Boris says. The house is dark and they are hiding in
it. Bolt the door and let them come up to us; and we will kill them--kill!--kill!--kill!' he
ended with an unearthly shriek and a burst of hysterical sobs.

"'I shall go,' said Piragoff. 'There is a chance.'

"'There is none,' shrieked the other. 'Come back, madman!'

"The door slammed, the key turned in the lock and a heavy bolt was shot. I quietly closed the
slide and ran down to the open window of the first floor front room.

"The street appeared to be empty save for two constables who stood at a corner conversing in
low tones. A profound silence reigned--an unusual silence, as it seemed!--through which the
subdued murmur of the constables' voices was faintly audible. I looked out anxiously, debating
whether I ought not to warn the unconscious sentinels even at the risk of defeating my plans.
Suddenly two sharp reports in quick succession rang out from below; both constables fell, and
a figure darted out of the doorway and raced madly up the street.

"One of the fallen constables lay motionless; the other grasped his hip with one hand and with
the other fired his revolver repeatedly at the retreating murderer, but apparently missed him
every time. In a few seconds a sergeant and another constable came flying round the corner;
police whistles began to sound their warning in all directions; and the previous silence gave
place to a very Babel of noise. But Piragoff had shot up a side turning before the sergeant
arrived, and the persistent clamor of the whistles told me that he had, for the moment, at
least, escaped. I turned away. Piragoff was out of my hands, and what I had seen only made
it more imperative that I should prevent further bloodshed.

"As, once more, I softly opened the slide, the voices of the miserable wretches within came
to me in a strange and unpleasant mixture of curses, blasphemies and hysterical sobs. They
cursed Piragoff, they cursed the police, they invoked death and destruction on every man, woman
and child in this nation of pigs; and between the curses they wept and lamented. I had shut
the damper of the stove before going down, but the charcoal was still alight, though dull.
I now arranged the stove in position, resting the long pipe on the bottom edge of the opening
so that its end projected a few inches into the room; moving quite silently and assisted by
the hubbub from without and the noise produced by the two craven villains. The violent and disturbing
currents, the terrible surf of the beaches, the cyclones of the Guinea coast, the trade-winds,
which were always head-winds to the mariners returning from the south-west, the uncharted
reefs and bars, all favored a school of seamanship which trained
the Portuguese and Italian sailors to meet far worse difficulties
than those likely to confront them in the later and more distant voyages
to the westward.

Other experiences of the Portuguese were later utilized by the Spaniards in their American colonies.
The slave-trade was a sombre precedent, followed only too readily; the system of grants of
newly discovered territory to captains or contractors who would continue its discovery or
conquest, exploit its resources, and pay to the crown a large share of its products was followed,
somewhat intermittently, in the West Indies and Central and South
America.

[Footnote: Bourne, Spain in America, chap. xiv.] One of the permanent
lessons of the Portuguese explorations was the need for and effectiveness
of royal or quasi-royal patronage.

Italian expeditions bore no fruit and could bear none, for this requirement of patronage was but ill-afforded
by her merchant cities or even by her merchant princes. It was impossible for Venice or Genoa to take
a part in the new discoveries and follow the new lines of trade, not only because of their
unfavorable geographical position, not only because they were then engaged
in a desperate military and economic struggle to retain their old Levantine
trade conquests and connections, not only because their wealth and
prosperity were deeply smitten by their mutual struggles and their common
losses from the repeated blows of the Ottoman conquest, but because
Italy had no royal family to take under its patronage distant discovery,
conquest, trade, and colonization. Italy furnished most of the knowledge,
the skill, and the individual enterprise that made the great period of
explorations; but Portugal, under the leadership of her great prince,
was its true pioneer.

CHAPTER V THE SPANISH MONARCHY IN THE AGE OF COLUMBUS (1474-1525) The limits of Portuguese
discovery and dominion were soon reached; and as the fifteenth century advanced, Spain emerged
not only as one of the great powers of Europe but as the first exploring,
conquering, and colonizing nation of America.

A century before any other European state obtained a permanent foothold
in the New World, Spain began the creation of a great colonial empire
there, which was soon occupied by her settlers, administered by a
department of her government, converted by her missionaries, and made
famous throughout Europe by the wealth which it brought to the mother-country.

Such a work at such a time could only be accomplished by a vigorous
and rising nation, and, in fact, Spanish advancement in Europe during
this period corresponded closely with her achievements in America.

There are few recorded instances of a development so rapid and a
transformation so complete as that which took place in Spain under
Ferdinand and Isabella, between 1474 and 1516.

For a career destined to be scarcely inferior to that any of the great empires of history, Spain
had at the beginning of this period an inadequate and undeveloped political
organization. Even that royal power which was the condition precedent
to distant conquest and colonial organization was new.

Spanish national unity, royal absolutism, and religious uniformity, which were famous throughout
Europe in the sixteenth century, were all of recent growth; the centralized control over all
parts of her widely scattered colonies which Spain, above all colonizing countries, exercised, was a power
attained and a policy adopted only at the moment of the acquisition of those colonies. When,
in 1474, Isabella inherited the crown of Castille, and, in 1479, her husband, Ferdinand, became king
of Aragon, they united, by close personal and political bonds, what
had formerly been near a score of domains, variously joined or detached.

The king of Aragon had already incorporated into a personal union three separate countries-- the kingdom
of Aragon, the kingdom of Valencia, and the ancient principality
of Catalonia, each with its own body of representatives, its own law,
its peculiar customs, and its separate administrative systems.

Castile was in name a political unity, having one monarch and one body of estates. Nevertheless
its provinces represented well-marked ancient divisions. Leon had once been a separate kingdom,
and was still coupled with Castile itself in the full title of that monarchy;
while Galicia, Asturias, and the three Basque provinces were inhabited
by peoples of different political history, of different stock, and
living under different customs.

Navarre, Granada, and Portugal, although within the Iberian peninsula, were, at the accession of
Ferdinand and Isabella, still independent; though the first was destined to be united to Aragon,
the second to Castile, and even the third was to be amalgamated for eighty
critical years with the greater monarchy. Thus Spain was a congeries
of states, joined by the marriage bond of the two rulers of its principal
divisions, but by no means yet a single monarchy or a united nation.

It was the work of the Catholic sovereigns to carry this unification far towards completion by following
common aims, by achieving success in many fields of common national interest, and by imposing
the common royal power upon all divergent and warring classes and
interests in the various Spanish states.

The personality of Ferdinand and Isabella was the first great factor in the strengthening of the
monarchy; for they were both individuals of authority, energy, and ability. [Footnote: Burgenroth,
Col. Letters and State Papers, Spain, I., 34, etc.] Their union was the next element; for the royal
power of the united monarchies could be used to break down opposition
in either.

Great achievements in Spain and in Europe increased their authority and power by the prestige
of success. Finally, the discoveries, conquests, and colonization of America gave a unique position
to the rulers of these distant possessions. Not only did the products of the American mines American
commercial taxation furnish a material basis of strength and influence; not only did a great commercial
marine and a great navy grow up around the needs of intercourse with the
colonies; but the romantic interest of the discoveries, the wild adventures,
and the wonderful success of the conquistadores, and the extent of the
colonies, filled the imagination and gave an ideal greatness to the monarchs
in whose name these conquests were made, and by whom the New World
was ruled.

There was need for all the authority of the new sovereigns at the time of their accession in 1474. Under
the weak rule of Isabella's brother, Castile had become a prey to disorder amounting almost to anarchy;
in Galicia brigandage was so common as to be unresisted, except by townsmen staying within walls;
in Andalusia private warfare among the great noble houses had let loose all the forces of disorder
and violence; Isabella's claim to the crown was disputed and her
rival upheld by foreign support.

[Footnote: Maurenbrecher, Studien und Studien, 45, 46.] The united sovereigns met these difficulties
with vigor, and the first two years of Isabella's rule in Castile gave repeated instances
of victorious warfare, of successful assertion of authority, and of harsh justice. The turbulent
districts were reduced to order and the foreign invader expelled. The disorder in Andalusia seemed
to demand personal action. In 1477, therefore, the two sovereigns made
a formal entry into Seville, and the queen asserted her royal power
in a way that could not be misunderstood.

In true patriarchal fashion she established her tribunal in the Alcazar, sitting in a chair on
an elevated platform surrounded by her council and officers, in all solemnity and according to
traditional forms, listening to the complaints of high and low, rich and poor, and granting
summary justice to all who claimed it, irrespective of rank or means. Her decrees were carried out,
ill-doers forced to make amends, and turbulent nobles reduced to promising to keep the peace. The visit of Isabella
to Seville may well be taken as the beginning of the work of the new monarchy in Spain. [Footnote:
Perez, Los Reyes Catolicos in Sevilla, 1477-1478, p. 13.] The next
step towards an enforcement of royal authority taken by the new monarchs
involved the acknowledgment of an institution seemingly independent
of the monarchy.

Spanish cities and communes had at various times formed hermandads,
leagues or brotherhoods, to enforce order, to support themselves
against great nobles, or to strengthen themselves for the carrying
out of some object of common policy.

Instances could be found in which their combined strength had been used against the king himself
or his officials. On the other hand, their united power had been used efficaciously to form a
sort of rural police, each city undertaking the protection of certain roads and stretches of
country. [Footnote: Antequera, Hist. de la Legislacion Espanola, 194-197.] Two influential ministers,
with the approval of Ferdinand and Isabella, in 1476, obtained the agreement of the Cortes of Castile and
of a junta of the towns for the formation of a santa hermandad, or "holy
brotherhood," for three years, for which rules were drawn up, submitted
to the monarchs, and filially promulgated.

The nobles gave a reluctant assent to the requirements of these rules,
so far as they affected their estates and vassals.

Altogether two thousand horsemen were to be equipped, each horseman supported by a body of one hundred
households. These were grouped into companies under eight captains and placed in detachments
at certain distances along all the roads. Besides the armed soldiers of the brotherhood, a whole
system of alcaldes was organized with exclusive jurisdiction over certain kinds of offences. A common
treasury existed for the support of expenses. When any theft, assault, arson, or rape was discovered
or complained of, immediately the bells Were rung, and the nearest
detachment of soldiers of the brotherhood started on a pursuit which
was carried to the boundaries of the next district, where its detachment
took up the pursuit, and so on until the culprit was seized or the
boundaries of the kingdom reached.

No town, house, or castle could refuse the right of search. When arrested, a decision of the nearest
alcalde was given within five days. If convicted, the culprit had hand or foot cut off or was put
to death. The favorite mode of execution in earlier times had been to bind the offender to a stake, and
shoot him with arrows "till he died naturally"; but Isabella required
that he should be hanged first, and that only then might his body
be used as a target and a warning for others.

The rapidity of pursuit and the certainty of capture of offenders, the
promptitude of justice, and the barbarism of the punishments made a
strong impression; and the combination of popular vengeance with
official sanction made the hermandad an effective form of national
police.

It was introduced into Aragon in 1488. Although this system seemed to emanate from the people,
the general control over it was preserved by Ferdinand and Isabella by placing in influential
positions in its administration trusted ministers of their own, and by joining themselves in its organization.
When its work of insuring order was measurably accomplished and the people began to complain of its
expense, the sovereigns were able to transfer the military force
into a contingent for the Moorish war, and the treasury into an addition
to the commissariat for the same purpose.

In 1498 it was reduced to the proportions of a petty and inexpensive
local police.

It had proved itself, as utilized by these strong monarchs, a means of obtaining order and recruiting
an army without cost to the royal treasury. The vigor of the royal administration, however, expressed
itself rather in the development of purely royal organs than in those which were so largely popular
as the hermandad. A group of royal councils became, under Ferdinand and Isabella, the most powerful
instruments of the royal will, the most effective means for obtaining additional power and beating
down all opposition. Early in the reign, the old royal council, which traditionally consisted
of twelve members, including representatives of each of the three orders of the state, was
reconstituted so as to consist of one ecclesiastic, three nobles, and eight or nine letrados, or lawyers.
[Footnote: Cortes de los Antiguos Reinos, 112, etc.] The last class, who made up its majority, were
men learned in the Roman law, and therefore devoted to the idea of
absolute monarchy; without connection with the church or the nobility,
and therefore interested in the strengthening of the kingship against
both; shrewd, trained, capable, and hard working.

From this time forward the council, in constant attendance on the king,
well organized, provided with a corps of clerks and officers, and
holding daily sessions, became the serviceable and effective auxiliary
of royal power. It had duties of consultation, advice, and in some
cases decision, on matters of internal and external policy, of legislation
and administration; and, in fact, of action in the whole sphere of
the affairs of state.

In time the council was gradually subdivided into three bodies: the Council of Justice, the
Council of State, and the Council of the Finances, whose functions were indicated by their titles.
The first of these was, in a certain sense, the direct representative of the old single royal council,
and was frequently known as the Council of Castile. Its president was
always considered the highest personage in the kingdom, next the king;
its members were of that class of letrados whom the king could most
securely rely on, and to it fell the duty of enforcing the royal supremacy
as against all ancient claims, privileges, and liberties.

In addition to these outgrowths from the primitive council of the king, new councils were created
from time to time, analogous in powers, but holding oversight over special spheres of national interest.
Some of these were temporary, others permanent. Among them were the Council of the Hermandad, which
lasted only for the twenty-two years of the existence of that institution;
the Council of the Suprema, or of the Inquisition; the Council of
the Military Orders, the Council of the Indies, and the Council of
Aragon.

[Footnote: Antequera, Hist. de la Legislation Espanola, 347, 348.] These great administrative boards
were a characteristic part of the Spanish system of government, a natural outgrowth of its
wide-spread fields of action. The Council of the Indies was constituted in 1511, under the presidency
of Juan de Fonseca, archdeacon of Seville, and was exactly analogous to the other councils. It accompanied
the king, and had under him all ultimate control in policy, in jurisdiction, and in legislation
over the Spanish possessions in America and in the East.

"With an angry and foolish exclamation, I reached through the opening and drew the cupboard
doors to, leaving only a small chink. Then I shut myself in my own cupboard, to exclude the
dim light, and closing the panel to within an inch, waited on events with my hand on the knob,
ready to shut it at a moment's notice. The great strategic move was about to begin and I was
curious to see what it would be.

"The bolt of the lock shot back; the door creaked softly. There was a pause, and then a voice
whispered:

"'Why, they seem to be asleep! Keep them covered, Smith, and shoot if they move.'

"Soft footsteps advanced across the room. Someone gave a choking cough and then a brassy voice
fairly shouted, 'Why, man, they're dead! My Lord! What a let-off!'

"An unsteady laugh told of the effort it had cost the worthy officer to take this frightful risk.

"'Yes,' said another voice, 'they're dead enough. They've cheated us after all. Not that I
complain of that. But, my eye, sir; what a sell! Think of all those Tommies and that machine
gun. Ha! ha! Oh! Lord! I suppose the beggars poisoned themselves when they saw the game was
up.' He laughed again and the laugh ended in a fit of coughing.

"'Not they, Sergeant,' said the other. 'It was that coke stove that gave them their ticket.
Can't you smell it? And, by Jove, it will give us our ticket if we don't clear out. We'll just
run down and report and send for a couple of stretchers.'

"'Hadn't I better wait here, sir, while you're gone?' asked the sergeant.

"'Lord, no, man. What for? We shall want three stretchers if you do. Come along. Pooh! Leave
the door open.'

"I listened incredulously to their retreating footsteps. It seemed hardly possible that they
should be so devoid of caution. And yet, why not? The men were dead. And dead men are not addicted
to sudden disappearances.

"But this case was going to be an exception. I had given the specimens up for lost when I heard
the police enter; but now--

"I opened the slide, sprang through the opening, and strode over to the mattress. One after
the other, I picked up the prostrate ruffians, carried them across and bundled them through
the aperture. Then I came through myself, shut the cupboard doors, closed both panels carefully,
shut up my own cupboard and carried the specimens down to my bedroom. With their knees drawn
up, they packed quite easily in the large drawers. I shut them in, locked the drawers, pocketed
the key, washed my hands and went down to the parlor, where I rapidly laid the breakfast table.
At any moment now, the police might come to inspect, and whenever they came, they would find
me ready.

"I did not waste time on breakfast. That could wait. Meanwhile I fell to work with the materials
in the yard. In addition to the hand-cart, there was now a coster's barrow, the property of
a greengrocer, to whom also belonged a quantity of lumber, including some bundles of stakes
and several hampers filled with straw. With these materials, and those that I had borrowed
from Mrs. Kosminsky, I began rapidly to build up a pair of life-sized guys--one male and one
female. I put them together very roughly and sat them side by side in the barrow, leaning against
the wall; and to each I attached a large ticket on which I had scrawled the name of the person
it represented; one being the highly unpopular minister, Mr. Todd-Leeks, and the other the
notorious Mrs. Gamway.

"They were very sketchily built and would have dropped to pieces at a touch. But that was of
no consequence. The time factor was the important one; and I had worked at such speed that
I had huddled them into a pretty plausible completeness when the inevitable peal at the house
bell disturbed my labors. I darted into the parlor, crammed a piece of bread into my mouth
and rushed out to the shop door, chewing frantically. As I opened the door, an agitated police
inspector burst in, followed by a sergeant.

"'Good morning, gentlemen,' I said suavely. 'Hair-cutting or shaving?'

"I shall not record the inspector's reply. I was really shocked. I had no idea that responsible
officials used such language. In effect, they wished to look over the premises. Of course I
gave instant permission, and followed them in their tour of inspection on the pretext of showing
them over the house.

"The inspector was in a very bad temper and the sergeant was obviously depressed. They conversed
in low tones as they stumped up the stairs and I heard the sergeant say something about 'an
awful suck in.'

"'Oh, don't talk of it,' snapped the inspector. 'It's enough to make a cat sick. But what beats
me is how those devils could have stuck the air of that room. It would have settled my hash
in five minutes.'

"'Yes,' agreed the sergeant; 'and how they could have let themselves down from that window
without being spotted. I wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen the cord. The constables
must have been asleep.'

"'Yes,' grunted the inspector; 'thickheaded louts. Let's have a look out here.' He strode into
the second floor back and threw up the window. 'Now you see,' he continued, 'what I mean. This
house has no connection with the next one. That projecting wing cuts it off. This back yard
opens into Bell's Alley; the yard next door opens into Kosher Court. That's the way they went.
They couldn't have got to this house excepting by the roof, and we've seen that they went down,
not up.' He stuck his head out of the window and looked down sourly at the guys.

"'Those things yours?' he asked gruffly, pointing at the effigies.

"'No,' I answered. 'I think one of Piper's men is getting them ready to take round.'

"The inspector grunted and moved away. He walked into the front room, looked in the cupboard,
glanced round and went downstairs. On the first floor, he made a perfunctory inspection of
the rooms, glancing in at my bedroom, and then went down to the ground floor. From thence the
two officers descended to the cellar, which they examined more thoroughly, even prodding the
sawdust in the bin, and so up to the back yard. Here, at the sight of the guys, the sergeant's
woeful countenance brightened somewhat.

"'Ha!' he exclaimed; 'Mrs. Gamway! I saw a good deal of her when I was in the Westminster division.
I've often thought I'd like to--and, by Jimini! I will!' He squared up fiercely at the helpless-looking
effigy of the lady, and, with a vicious, round-arm punch, sent its unstable head flying across
the yard.

"The blow and its effect seemed to rouse his destructive instincts, for he returned to the
attack with such ferocity that in a few seconds he had reduced, not only the factitious Mrs.
Gamway, but the Right Honorable Todd-Leeks also, to a heap of ruin.

"'Stop that foolery, Smith,' snarled the inspector; 'you'll give the poor devil the trouble
of building them up all over again. Come along.' He unlocked the gate and stood for a moment
looking back at me.

"'I suppose you've heard nothing in the night?' he said.

"'Not a sound,' I answered, adding, 'I shan't open the shop until the evening, and I shall
probably go out for the day. Would you like to have the key?'

"The inspector shook his head. 'No, I don't want the key. I've seen all I want to see. Good
morning,' and he stumped out, followed by his subordinate.

"I drew a deep breath as I re-locked the gate. I was glad he had refused the key, though I
had thought it prudent to make the offer. Now I was at liberty to complete my arrangements
at leisure.

"My first proceeding, after locking up the shop, was to rig up, with the green grocer's stakes
and Mrs. Kosminsky's cord, a firm pair of standards to support the guys. Then I took a hearty
breakfast, after which I repaired to my bedroom with a hamper of straw, a bundle of small stakes
and a quantity of odd rags. The process of converting the specimens into quite convincing guys
was not difficult. Tying up the heads in large pieces of rag, I fastened the big masks to the
fronts of the globular bundles and covered in the remainder with masses of oakum to form appropriate
wigs. Each figure was then clothed in the bulky garments borrowed from Mrs. Kosminsky's stock
and well stuffed with straw, portions of which I allowed to protrude at all the apertures.
A suitable stiffness was imparted to the limbs by pieces of stick poked up inside the clothing,
and smaller sticks gave the correct, starfish-like spread to the gloved hands. When they were
finished, the illusion was perfect. As the two effigies sat on the floor with their backs against
the wall, stiff, staring, bloated and grotesquely horrible, not a soul would have suspected them.

"I carried the male guy down to the yard, sat him on the barrow and put on his hat; and taking
with me the remains of the ruined guys, which I decided to put away in the drawers, I returned
for the second effigy. I lashed the two figures very securely to the standards, fixed on their
hats firmly, and attached their name-cards. Then I went into the shop to attend to my own appearance.

"I had brought back from my Bloomsbury house the shabby overcoat and battered hat that I had
worn on the last few expeditions. These I now assumed; and having fixed on my cheek a large
cross of sticking-plaster--which pulled down my eyebrow and pulled up the corner of my mouth--begrimed
my face, reddened my nose, and carefully tinted in a not too emphatic black eye, I was sufficiently
transmogrified to deceive even my intimate friends. Now I was ready to start; and now was the
critical moment.

"I went out into the yard, unlocked the gate, trundled the barrow out into the alley, and locked
the gate behind me. At the moment there was not a soul in sight, but from the street close
by came the unmistakable murmur of a large crowd. I must confess that I felt a little nervous. Another
halt, another lifting down, but at once to be gathered up again,
and then a splashing through water.

"Be careful," said the voice. A hand, a gentleman's hand, took hers; her feet were on boards-- on
a boat; she was drawn down to sit on a low thwart. Putting her hand over, she felt the lapping
of the water and tasted that it was salt.

  "Oh, sir, where are you taking me?" she asked,
  as the boat was pushed off.

"That you will know in due time," he answered.

Some more refreshment was offered her in a decided but not discourteous manner, and she partook
of it, remembering that exhaustion might add to her perils. She perceived that after pushing
off from shore sounds of eating and low gruff voices mingled with
the plash of oars.

Commands seemed to be given in French, and there were mutterings
of some strange language.

Darkness was coming on. What were they doing with her? And did Charles's
fate hang upon hers?

Yet in spite of terrors and anxieties, she was so much worn out as to doze long enough to lose count
of time, till she was awakened by the rocking and tossing of the boat and loud peremptory commands.
She became for the first time in her life miserable with sea-sickness, for how long it was
impossible to tell, and the pitching of the boat became so violent that when she found herself
bound to one of the seats she was conscious of little but a longing to be allowed to go to the
bottom in peace, except that some great cause-- she could hardly
in her bewildered wretchedness recollect what-- forbade her to die
till her mission was over.

There were loud peremptory orders, oaths, sea phrases, in French
and English, sometimes in that unknown tongue. Something expressed
that a light was directing to a landing-place, but reaching it was
doubtful.

"Unbind her eyes," said a voice; "let her shift for herself."

"Better
not." A large juvenile crowd attended
me, with appropriate vocal music, and adults cheered from the pavements, though no one embarrassed
me with gifts. But, for all my outward gaiety, I was secretly anxious. It was barely ten o'clock
and many hours of the dreary November day had yet to run before it would be safe for me to
approach my destination. The prospect of tramping the streets for some ten or twelve hours
with this very conspicuous appendage was far from agreeable, to say nothing of the increasing
risk of detection, and I looked forward to it with gloomy forebodings. If a suspicion arose,
I could be traced with the greatest ease, and in any case I should be spent with fatigue before
evening. Reflecting on these difficulties, I had decided to seek some retired spot where I
could dismount the effigies, cover them with the tarpaulin that was rolled up in the barrow
and take a rest, when once more circumstances befriended me.

"All through the night and morning the ordinary winter haze had hung over the town; but now,
by reason of a change of wind, the haze began rapidly to thicken into a definite fog. I set
down the barrow and watched with thankfulness the mass of opaque yellow vapor filling the street
and blotting out the sky. As it thickened and the darkness closed in, the children strayed
away and only one solitary loafer remained.

"''Ard luck for you, mate, this 'ere fog,' he remarked, 'arter you've took all that trouble,
too.' (He little knew how much.) 'But it's no go. You'd better git 'ome whilst you can find
yer way. This is goin' to be a black 'un.'

"I thanked him for his sympathy and moved on into the darkening vapor. Close to Spital Square
I found a quiet corner where I quickly dismounted the guys, covered them with the tarpaulin
and, urged by a new anxiety from the rapidly-growing density of the fog, groped my way into
Norton Folgate. Here I moved forward as quickly as I dared, turned up Great Eastern Street
and at length, to my great relief, came out into Old Street.

"It was none too soon. As I entered the well-known thoroughfare, the fog closed down into impenetrable
obscurity. The world of visible objects was extinguished and replaced by a chaos of confused
sounds. Even the end of my barrow faded away into spectral uncertainty, and the curb against
which I kept my left wheel grinding looked thin and remote.

"Opportune as the fog was, it was not without its dangers; of which the most immediate was
that I might lose my way. I set down the barrow, and, detaching the little compass that I always
carry on my watch-guard, laid it on the tarpaulin. My course, as I knew, lay about west-southwest,
and with the compass before me, I could not go far wrong. Indeed, its guidance was invaluable;
without it I could never have found my way through those miles of intricate streets. When a
stationary wagon or other obstruction sent me out into the road, it enabled me to pick up the
curb again unerringly. It mapped out the corners of intersecting streets, it piloted me over
the wide crossings of the City Road and Aldersgate Street, and kept me happily confident of
my direction as I groped my way like a fogbound ship on an invisible sea.

"I went as quickly as was safe, but very warily, for a collision might have been fatal. Listening
intently, with my eye on the compass and my wheel at the curb, I pushed on through the yellow
void until a shadowy post at a street corner revealed itself by its parish initials as that
at the intersection of Red Lion Street and Theobald's Row.

"I was nearly home. Another ten minutes' careful navigation brought me to a corner which I
believed to be the one opposite my own house. I turned back a dozen paces, put down the barrow
and crossed the pavement--with the compass in my hand, lest I should not be able to find the
barrow again. I came against the jamb of a street door, I groped across to the door itself,
I found the keyhole of the familiar Yale pattern, I inserted my key and turned it; and the
door of the museum entrance opened. I had brought my ship into port.

"I listened intently. Someone was creeping down the street, hugging the railings. I closed
the door to let him pass, and heard the groping hands sweep over the door as he crawled by.
Then I went out, steered across to the barrow, picked up one of the specimens and carried it
into the hall, where I laid it on the floor, returning immediately for the other. When both
the specimens were safely deposited, I came out, softly closing the door after me with the
key, and once more took up the barrow-handles. Slowly I trundled the invaluable little vehicle
up the street, never losing touch of the curb, flinging the stakes and cordage into the road
as I went, until I had brought it to the corner of a street about a quarter of a mile from
my house; and there I abandoned it, making my way back as fast as I could to the museum.

"My first proceeding on my return was to carry my treasures to the laboratory, light the gas
and examine their hair. I had really some hopes that one of them might be the man I sought.
But, alas! It was the old story. They both had coarse black hair of the mongoloid type. My
enemy was still to seek.

"Having cleaned away my 'make-up,' I spent the rest of the day pushing forward the preliminary
processes so that these might be completed before 'decay's effacing fingers' should obliterate
the details of the integumentary structures. In the evening I returned to Whitechapel and opened
the shop, proposing to purchase the dummy skeletons on the following day and to devote the
succeeding nights and early mornings to the preparation of the specimens.

"The barrow turned up next day in the possession of an undeniable tramp who was trying to sell
it for ten shillings and who was accused of having stolen it but was discharged for want of
evidence. I compensated the green grocer for the trouble occasioned by my carelessness in leaving
the back gate open; and thus the incident came to an end. With one important exception, for
there was a very startling sequel.

"On the day after the expedition, I had the curiosity to open the panels and go through into
the room that the murderers had occupied, which had now been locked up by the police. Looking
round the room, my eye lighted on a shabby cloth cap lying on the still undisturbed mattress
just below the pillow. I picked it up and looked it over curiously, for by its size I could
see that it did not belong to either of the men whom I had secured. I took it over to the curtained
window and carefully inspected its lining; and suddenly I perceived, clinging to the coarse
cloth, a single short hair, which, even to the naked eye, had a distinctly unusual appearance.
With a trembling hand, I drew out my lens to examine it more closely; and, as it came into
the magnified field, my heart seemed to stand still. For, even at that low magnification, its
character was unmistakable--it looked like a tiny string of pale gray beads. Grasping it in
my fingers, I dashed through the opening, slammed the panels to, and rushed down to the parlor
where I kept a small microscope. My agitation was so intense that I could hardly focus the
instrument, but at last the object on the slide came into view: a broad, variegated stripe,
with its dark medulla and the little rings of air bubbles at regular intervals. It was a typical
ringed hair! And what was the inference?

"The hair was almost certainly Piragoff's. Piragoff was a burglar, a ruthless murderer, and
he had ringed hair. The man whom I sought was a burglar, a ruthless murderer, and had ringed
hair. Then Piragoff was my man. It was bad logic, but the probabilities were overwhelming.
And I had had the villain in the hollow of my hand and he had gone forth unscathed!

"I ground my teeth with impotent rage. It was maddening. All the old passion and yearning for
retribution surged up in my breast once more. My interest in the new specimens almost died
out. I wanted Piragoff; and it was only the new-born hope that I should yet lay my hand on
him that carried me through that time of bitter disappointment."

VII

THE UTTERMOST FARTHING

Intense was the curiosity with which I turned to the last entry in Humphrey Challoner's "Museum
Archives." Not that I had any doubt as to the issue of the adventure that it recorded. I had
seen the specimen numbered "twenty-five" in the shallow box, and its identity had long since
been evident. But this fact mitigated my curiosity not at all. The "Archives" had furnished
a continuous narrative--surely one of the strangest ever committed to writing--and now I was
to read the climax of that romantically terrible story; to witness the final achievement of
that object that my poor friend had pursued with such unswerving pertinacity.

I extract the entry entire with the exception of one or two passages near the end, the reasons
for the omission of which will be obvious to the reader.

"Circumstances attending the acquirement of the specimen numbered 'twenty-five' in the Anthropological
Series (A. Osteology. B. Reduced dry preparations).

"The months that followed the events connected with the acquirement of the specimens 23 and
24 brought me nothing but aching suspense and hope deferred. The pursuit of the common criminal
I had abandoned since I had got scent of my real quarry. The concussor lay idle in its basket;
the cellar steps were greased no more. I had but a passive rôle to play until the hour should
strike to usher in the final scene--if that should ever be. Though the term of my long exile
in East London was drawing nigh, its approach was unseen by me. I could but wait; and what
is harder than waiting?

"I had made cautious inquiries among the alien population. But no one knew Piragoff--or, at
least, admitted any knowledge of him; and as to the police, when they had made a few arrests
and then released the prisoners, they appeared to let the matter drop. The newspapers were,
of course, more active. One of them described circumstantially how 'the three anarchists who
escaped from the house in Saul Street' had been seen together in an East End restaurant; and
several others followed from day to day the supposed whereabouts of a mysterious person known
as 'Paul the Plumber,' whom the police declared to be a picturesque myth. But for me there
was one salient fact: of those three ruffians one was still at large, and no one seemed to
have any knowledge of him.

"It was some four months later that I again caught up the scent. A certain Friday evening early
in February found me listlessly tidying up the shop; for the Jewish Sabbath had begun and customers
were few. But about eight o'clock a man strode in jauntily, hung up his hat and seated himself
in the operating chair; and at that moment a second man entered and sat down to wait. I glanced
at this latter, and in an instant my gorge rose at him. I cannot tell why. To the scientific
mind, intuitions are abhorrent. They are mostly wrong and wholly unreasonable. But as I looked
at that man a wave of instinctive dislike and suspicion swept over me. He was, indeed, an ill-looking
fellow enough. A broad, lozenge-shaped Tartar face, with great cheekbones and massive jaws;
a low forehead surmounted by a dense brush of up-standing grayish-brown hair; beetling brows
and eyes deep-set, fierce and furtive; combined to make a sufficiently unprepossessing countenance.
Nor was his manner more pleasing. He scowled forbiddingly at me, he scrutinized the other customer,
craning sideways to survey him in the mirror, he looked about the shop and he stared inquisitively
at the parlor door. Every movement was expressive of watchful, uneasy suspicion. 

When the ordeal of Mary's reign was over, the exiled for conscience'sake returned to England, but
they formed already a body divergent from the church as it was then
established.

During Elizabeth's reign three stages of the development of Puritanism gave occasion for corresponding
conflicts with the crown and for making more clear the differences between Anglican and Puritan.
During the first decade of the reign, Puritanism meant a protest against certain of the ceremonies
and formulas and vestments required of clergymen by the law. The sign of the cross on the child's
forehead in baptism, the celebration of saints'days, insistence on kneeling to receive the
communion, the use of church organs, the changing of robes during the service, and even the wearing
of a surplice or a square cap, were to many earnest souls survivals of "popery" and temptations
to superstition.

The clergy who held such beliefs tried by resolutions in convocation to change the practices
of the church: but notwithstanding the large votes in their favor they were still in the minority
and were defeated.

[Footnote: Strype, Annals, I., 500-505.] Then individual ministers began to disregard the law,
and either to neglect the use of certain requirements of the prayer-book altogether or to change
the forms there laid down. The archbishop and the Court of High Commission issued detailed instructions
insisting on observance of the authorized form of worship; [Footnote: Prothero, Statutes and Constitutional
Documents, 191-194.] but the ministers declared that they owed obedience to God rather than to man,
and either resigned their pastorates or, encouraged by their congregations,
continued to disobey the law and the archiepiscopal injunctions.

It was at this time and in this connection that the word "Puritan" came into use, as a term
of reproach for those who insisted on an ultra-pure ritual, purged from all traces of the old
religion. "Puritan" was used as "Pharisee" might have been.

[Footnote: Camden, Annals, year 1568.] From 1570 onward Puritanism entered upon a second stage,
in the form of a contest for changes in the organization of the established church. In the main
the same men who were dissatisfied with the liturgy of the church began to oppose the system of its government
by bishops and archbishops. [Footnote: Letter from Sampson, formerly dean of Christ Church,
to Lord Burleigh, March 8, 1574, in Strype, Annals, III., 373.] The
"Admonition to Parliament" of 1572 declares that "as the names of archbishops,
archdeacons, lord bishops, chancellors, etc., are drawn out of the pope's
shop, together with their offices, so the government which they use... is
anti-Christian and devilish and contrary to the Scriptures.

And as safely may we, by the warrant of God's words, subscribe to allow the dominion of the
pope universally to rule over the word of God as an archbishop over a whole province or a
lord bishop over a diocese which containeth many shires and parishes. For the dominion that they
exercise... is unlawful and expressly forbidden by the word of God."

[Footnote: Prothero, Statutes and Constitutional Documents, 199.]
The greater number of those who attacked the episcopal organization
of the church advocated the system of Presbyterianism which had been
extensively adopted on the Continent and recently introduced into
Scotland by the Book of Discipline.

November 20, 1572, was erected at Wandsworth, in Surrey, the first presbytery in England; [Footnote:
Bancroft, Dangerous Positions, chap, i., quoted in Prothero, Statutes
and Constitutional Documents, 247.] from this time forward presbyteries
were established here and there by groups of neighboring parishes.

Some ten or fifteen years later the larger group, known as the "classis," was introduced;
provincial and national "synods" were contemplated by many of the Puritan clergy; and the English church
bade fair to be reorganized on Presbyterian lines, without the authority of the law. This action
met the stern opposition of the queen and the Court of High Commission. In 1583 Elizabeth appointed
Whitgift archbishop of Canterbury, and under him the law was enforced with rigor. Individual clergymen
were deposed or forced to conform; the devotional practices called "exercises," on which Puritanism
throve, were forbidden; and although the contest continued, the introduction
of Presbyterianism was held in check.

The latter years of Elizabeth's reign saw Puritanism within the church taking on a new activity, by turning
from questions of ceremony and church government to questions of morals. The Puritans always
stood for greater earnestness and for the abolition of abuses in the church, but as time passed on they
brought into greater prominence the ascetic ideal of life; the strict
keeping of the Sabbath borrowed from the Jewish ritual became customary;
[Footnote: Eggleston, Beginners of a Nation, 123-132.] prevailing
immoralities and extravagances were more bitterly reprobated in books,
sermons, and parliamentary statutes; and Puritanism took on that unlovely
aspect of exaggerated austerity which characterized its most conspicuous
manifestations in the seventeenth century.

The great body of men of Puritan tendencies, both clergymen and laymen, were deeply interested in
reforming the church of England in liturgy, in organization, and in practices; but they had no wish
or intention to break it up, to divide it into different bodies, or
to withdraw individually from its membership. They were as completely dominated
by the ideal of a single united national church, one in doctrine, organization,
and form of worship, as was the queen herself. Nevertheless, a group of
men arose among them, under the general name of Independents, to whom
the very idea of a national church seemed idolatrous; who found in the
Scriptures, or were driven by the logic of their position, to one plan
of church government only-- the absolute independence of each congregation
of Christian believers.

They looked back to the little groups of chosen believers in Syria and Asia Minor, the shadowy
outlines of whose organization are found in the New Testament; their imagination gave definite
shape and their reverence for the Scriptures gave divine authority to these as examples. According to
the analogy of biblical times, they looked upon themselves as a remnant
of saints, sacred and set apart from a wicked and persecuting world.

Some of these extreme Puritans were under the influence of Robert Browne, a zealous advocate,
whose activity lay principally between 1581 and 1586. Others came under the somewhat more systematic
teachings of Barrow and Greenwood. Thus it became a fundamental principle of several thousand
persons, between 1580 and 1600, to separate themselves from the established church. They are,
therefore, known as "Separatists," though they were more commonly called at that time, as a term of reproach,
by the names of their leaders, "Brownists" or "Barrowists."

They met in "conventicles," and even strove to form more permanent congregations by gathering
in secret places, or sometimes openly, in defiance of the authorities. A churchman of the time
says that they teach "that the worship of the English church is flat
idolatry; that we admit into our church persons unsanctified; that
our preachers have no lawful calling; that our government is ungodly;
that no bishop or preacher preacheth Christ sincerely and truly; that
the people of every parish ought to choose their bishop, and that
every elder, though he be no doctor nor pastor, is a bishop."

[Footnote: Paule, Life of Whitgift (1612), 43, quoted in Prothero, Statutes and Constitutional
Documents, 223.] In times when church and state were one, such teaching
could not be endured.

If the Puritans were scourged with whips the Separatists were lashed with scorpions. Their teachers
were silenced and imprisoned, and Barrow and Greenwood were, in 1587,
hanged at Tyburn.

Their congregations were broken up and attendants at their conventicles were fined, deprived of
their property, and thrown into prison, where they died by the score. Before Elizabeth's reign was
over, the Separatists had gone into exile or become but a persecuted remnant, so far, at least,
as outward manifestation extended; though one can scarcely doubt
that among Puritans generally, and even, perhaps, among those who
still adhered to the established church, were many who shared their
convictions.

It is to be remembered that the Independents and all the new sects which were formed in England
later in the seventeenth century, as well as the Puritans of New England, organized themselves
on the basis of independent congregations of Christian believers. The close of the sixteenth
century saw the contrast between the Anglican churchman on the one hand and the Puritan and
Separatist on the other becoming more harsh, their incompatibility
more evident. Fifty years earlier episcopacy and ceremonialism seemed
to most Anglicans comparatively unimportant in themselves. They rather
blamed the Puritans for making a difficulty about matters indifferent,
and for opposing the civil authority in things pertaining to conscience;
but did not quarrel with them on religious questions.

But a generation of disputes, the development of fundamental principles, the need for justification
of a position already taken, drove both parties into a more dogmatic
attitude.

The high-church party in the established church now began to assert
the divine appointment of the episcopal office, to lay stress on
the doctrine of the apostolic succession, and gradually to reintroduce
much symbolic ceremonial.

The Puritans, on the other hand, were more than ever convinced that the system they advanced was based
upon divine authority; and that the church as it stood was founded upon
human regulation only and must be forced, if it could not be persuaded,
to change its system.

Still greater clearness was given to this division of parties by the theological contest that came
into existence between 1600 and 1620. The Puritans were almost completely Calvinist, and they
claimed that the established church itself had always been so. On the other hand, the Anglican
leaders of the early seventeenth century were Arminian, and this form of theological doctrine
was asserted by all those who defended the existing organization and ceremonial practices of
the church. [Footnote: Makower, Constitutional History of the Church of England, 75.] Thus
the breach between the Puritan and the churchman was now so wide that James I., indolent and arrogant
for all his toleration and learning, did nothing-- perhaps could
do nothing-- towards its closing.

He said of the Puritans, at the Conference at Hampton Court in 1604: "I shall make them conform
themselves or I will harry them out of this land, or else do worse." [Footnote: Gardiner, Hist,
of England, I., 157.] He disappointed and angered them, drove them
into opposition to his civil rule as well as to his church policy,
and strengthened their number and their position by his treatment
of Parliament, whose interests and theirs had come to be inseparable.

All the "antagonisms, religious and political," of the reign of James were intensified in that of Charles
I. The new king was more autocratic and more unsympathetic with his subjects; Parliament was more
self-assertive and more determined to impose its wishes upon king and ministers; the authorities
of the established church were more intolerant towards the Puritans and milder towards the Catholics.
The Puritans, on the other hand, were more convinced that the Anglican church was retrograding
towards Catholicism, and more determined to destroy episcopacy if they should ever be able to do so.
The freest opportunity of the established church to destroy Puritanism came during the period of
the personal government of Charles, from 1629 to 1640, when Parliament
had no meetings, and when the Court of Star Chamber, the High Commission,
and the Privy Council were the all-powerful instruments of an administration
sympathetic with the high-church party.

The oppressions of the Puritans were now at their height, and the prospect of ever obtaining
freedom to worship as they chose seemed the darkest. With the most prominent liberal and Puritan leaders
imprisoned for their political opinions, like Sir John Eliot, or lying in prison, crushed under enormous
fines, like Prynne; with the courts subservient to the royal will; with court preachers declaring
the duty of passive obedience to the government; with Laud guiding
the policy of the king in all ecclesiastical matters,-- the state
of the Puritans might well seem hopeless, and they might well look
towards some distant land as a place for the establishment of a purified
national church.

Archbishop Laud typified and embodied the spirit of the dominant church, and in addition he
had unwearied energy, industry, and determination. Sincere, practical, and brave, but narrow-minded
and unsympathetic, he set about the work of reducing the church of England to absolute uniformity in
accordance with the law as he interpreted it.

The Nonconformists had no rest; Puritan clergymen must conform; Puritan laymen must suffer under
the power of the church, which, dominated by its bishops and wedded to its idols, was becoming
steadily more powerful and all-inclusive. The reign of Charles was not marked by the passage
of harsher laws against the Puritans, but it was distinguished from all periods that preceded
or followed it by the continuous, steady, and thorough-going application of those already in existence.
It was under this regime that the great Puritan migration to America
took place. The Puritans represented a class of society which was
much more ready to emigrate than the Catholics. As early as 1597 some imprisoned
Brownists sent a petition to the Privy Council asking that they might
be allowed to settle in America; and four men of the same persuasion
even went on a voyage to examine the land.

[Footnote: Eggleston, Beginners of a Nation, 167.] In 1608 many Puritans seem to have prepared
to emigrate to Virginia, when by Archbishop Bancroft's influence they
were forbidden by the king to go, except with his express permission in each
individual case. [Footnote: Stith, Hist, of Virginia, book II., year
1608.] The Separatists early became wanderers on the face of the earth,
a now famous group of them leaving their English homes for Amsterdam,
migrating thence to Leyden, and then, after hesitating between a Dutch
and an English colony and between North and South America, a portion
settling themselves on Plymouth Harbor.

[Footnote: Griffis, Pilgrims in Their Three Homes.] In all the history of early colonization there
have been few such occasions as that of the year 1638, when fourteen ships bound for New England
lay in the Thames at one time, and when three thousand settlers reached
Boston within the same year.

[Footnote: Authorities quoted in Eggleston, The Beginners of a Nation, 344] Almost all the Englishmen
who were ever to emigrate to New England left their homes during the twelve years between 1628 and
1640. Unfavorable economic conditions at home and the prospect of greater prosperity in the colony doubtless
had their influence; but of the more than twenty thousand who passed
from the old England to New England during that time, it is fair to
presume that by far the greater number were more or less influenced
by their Puritan opinions.

The most decisive proof of this motive for emigration is the slacking
of the tide of Puritan expatriation after 1640. When Parliament, after
eleven years of intermission, met in that year at Westminster in
the full appreciation of its power, one of its first actions was to
order the impeachment and arrest of Archbishop Laud.

At last the Puritans had their turn, and the assembling of Parliament found them no longer a
scattered, disorganized, diversified element in the English church and nation; but, thanks to
long persecution, a compact body, austere in morals, dogmatic in religious belief, ready to make use
of political means for religious ends, and determined to impose their
asceticism and their orthodoxy on the English people so far as they
might be able. [Footnote: Eggleston, Beginners of a Nation, 133.]
A majority of Parliament, small but sufficient, were Puritans, as
had probably been true of every Parliament for many years, had they
been free to act.

Their intentions showed themselves in a prompt inception of reforms in the church, and the
burdens of official ecclesiastical oppression were rapidly transferred to the shoulders of those who
had previously bound the loads upon Puritan backs. In 1641 orders were issued by the House of Commons
for the demolition of all images, altars, and crucifixes. [Footnote: Commons Journals, II., 279.]
A commission known as the "Committee of Scandalous Ministers" was appointed, and proceeded
to discipline the clergy and to harass the universities. Demands for the harsher treatment
of priests and Jesuits were soon followed by plans for the diminution
of the power of archbishops and bishops of the established church. The
Court of High Commission was abolished July 5, 1641. [Footnote: 16 Chas.
I., chap. ii.] The archbishops and bishops were removed from the
House of Lords and the Privy Council by the act of February 13, 1642.

[Footnote: League and Covenant, Sub Section 1, 2.] By this time the quarrel between Charles and Parliament
had been put to the arbitrament of the sword, and the distinction of Cavalier and Roundhead to
a certain extent superseded that between Anglican and Puritan. In 1645 came the catastrophe of Naseby,
then the long series of futile negotiations ending in the execution of the king at Whitehall in
1649.

From the general confusion emerged the commonwealth, "without any king or House of Lords," the
church organized on Presbyterian lines, the spirit of Puritanism dominating, although there was toleration
for every form of Christian belief, "provided this liberty be not extended to popery or prelacy." [Footnote:
Instrument of Government, Section 37.] For full twenty years the
Anglican church was under a cloud, first Presbyterianism and then
Independency being the official form of the church of England.

The ill-fortunes of the royalist party in the civil war and under
the commonwealth, and the religious oppression imposed by the Puritans
upon churchmen, now combined to send to the colonies the very classes
which had so recently been the persecutors. From 1640 to 1660 Virginia,
Maryland, and the Carolinas received an influx of English churchmen
escaping from conditions at home as intolerable to them as, those
which drove the Pilgrims and Puritans to New England during the previous
decades. Even his personal appearance had become a secondary
consideration. I bustled through the rest of the operation, whisked off the cloth and opened
the parlor door. He rose, glanced at his reflection in the glass, looked quickly at the shop
door and followed me into the little room, shutting and bolting the door after him.

"I watched him closely. I am no believer in the rubbish called telepathy, but, by observing
a person's face and actions, it is not difficult to trace the direction of his thoughts. Piragoff
gazed round the room with the frank curiosity of the barbarian, and the look of pleased surprise
that he bestowed on the safe and the way in which his glance traveled from that object to my
person were easy enough to interpret. Here was an iron safe, presumably containing valuables,
and here was an elderly man with the key of that safe in his pocket. The corollary was obvious.

"'Is that another room?' he asked, pointing to the cellar door.

"I threw it open and let him look into the dark cavity. 'That,' I said, 'is the cellar. It
has a door opening into the back yard, which has a gate that opens into Bell's Alley. It might
be useful. Don't you think so?'

"He did think so; very emphatically, to judge by his expression. Very useful indeed when you
have knocked down an old man and rifled his safe, to have a quiet exit at the back.

"'Now tell me about this stuff,' said he. 'Have you got it here?'

"'The fact is,' I said confidentially, 'I haven't got it at all--yet' (his face fell perceptibly
at this), 'but,' I added, 'I can get it when I like; when I have arranged about disposing of it.'

"'But you've got a safe to keep it in,' he protested.

"'Yes, but I don't want to have it here. Besides, that safe won't hold it all, if I take over
the whole lot.'

"Piragoff's eyes fairly bulged with greed and excitement.

"'What sort of stuff is it? Silver?'

"'There is some silver,' I said, superciliously; 'a good deal, in fact. But that's hardly worth
while. You see this stuff is a collection. It belongs, at present, to one of those fools who
collect jewelry and church plate; monstrances, jeweled chalices and things of that kind.'

"Piragoff licked his lips. 'Aha!' said he, 'I am that sort of fool myself.' He laughed uneasily,
being evidently sorry he had spoken, and continued:

"'And you can get all this when you want it, hein? But where is it now?'

"I smiled slyly. 'It is in a sort of private museum; but where that museum is I am not going
to say, or perhaps I may find it empty when I call.'

"Piragoff looked at me earnestly. He had evidently written me down an abject fool--and no wonder--and
was considering how to manage me.

"'But this place--this museum--it must be a strong place. How are you going to get in? Will
you ring the bell?'

"'I shall let myself in with a latch-key,' I said jauntily.

"'Have you got the latch-key?'

"'Yes, and I have tried it. I had it from a friend who lives there.'

"Piragoff laughed outright. 'And she gave you the latch-key, hein? Ha-ha! but you are a wicked
old man. And it is strange too.' He glanced from me to his reflection in the little mirror
over the safe; and his expression said as plainly as words, 'Now, if she had given it to me,
one could understand it.'

"'But,' he continued, 'when you are inside? The stuff will be locked up. You are skilful, perhaps?
You can open a safe, for instance? You have tried?'

"'No, I've never actually tried, but it's easy enough. I've often opened packing cases. And
I don't think there is an iron safe. They are wooden cabinets. It will be quite easy.'

"'Bah! Packing cases!' exclaimed Piragoff. He grasped my coat sleeve excitedly. 'I tell you,
my friend, it is not easy. It is very difficult. I tell you this. I, who know. I am not in
the line myself, but I have a friend who does these things and he has shown me. I have some
skill--though I practice only for sport, you understand. It is very difficult. You shall let
yourself in, you shall find the stuff locked up, you shall try to open the cabinet and you
shall only make a great noise. Then you shall come away empty, like a fool, and the police
shall set a watch on the house. The chance is gone and you have nothing.'

"I scratched my head like the fool that he thought me. 'That would be rather awkward,' I admitted.

"'Awkward!' he exclaimed. 'It would be wicked! The chance of a lifetime gone! Now, if you take
with you a friend who has skill--hein?'

"'Ah!' I said craftily, 'but this is my little nest egg. If I take a friend I shall have to share.'

"'But there is enough for two. If your safe will not hold it, there is more than you can carry.
Besides, your friend shall not be greedy. If he takes a third--or say a quarter? How much is
the stuff worth?'

"'The collection is said to be worth a hundred thousand pounds.'

"'A hundred thousand!' gasped Piragoff. He was almost foaming at the mouth. 'A hundred thousand!
That would be twenty five for me--for your friend--and seventy-five for you. It is impossible
for one man. You could not carry it. My friend,' again he grasped my sleeve persuasively, 'I
will come with you. I am very skilful. I am strong. I am brave. You shall be safe with me.
I will be your comrade and you shall give a quarter--or even less if you like.'

"He could afford to make easy terms--under the circumstances.

"I reflected awhile and at length said, 'Perhaps you are right. Some of the things are large
and gold is heavy--we should leave the silver. It would take two to carry it all. Yes, you
shall come with me and bring the necessary tools. When shall we do it? Any night will do for me.'

"He reflected, with an air of slight embarrassment, and then asked:

"'Do you open your shop on Sunday?'

"The question took a load off my mind. I had been speculating on what plan of action he would
adopt. Now I knew. And his plan would suit me to a nicety.

"'No,' I said, 'I never open on Sunday.'

"'Then,' said he, 'we will do the job on Saturday night or Sunday morning. That will give us
a quiet day to break up the stuff.'

"'Yes. That will be a good arrangement. Will you come here on Saturday night and start with me?'

"'No, no!' he replied. 'That would never do. We must not be seen together. Give me a rendezvous.
We will meet near the place.'

"Quite so! It would never do for us to be seen together in Whitechapel where we were both known.
The fact might be mentioned at the inquest. It would be most inconvenient for Piragoff.

"'And, look you,' he continued; 'wear a top-hat and good clothes; if you have an evening suit,
put it on. And bring a new Gladstone bag with some clothes in it. Where will you meet me?'

"I mentioned Upper Bedford Place and suggested half-past twelve, to which he agreed; and, after
sending me out to see that the coast was clear, he took his leave, twisting his waxed mustache
as he went out.

"I was, on the whole, very well pleased with the arrangement. Particularly pleased was I with
Piragoff's transparent plan for disposing of me. For, now that it really came to action, I
found myself shying somewhat at the office of executioner; though I meant to do my duty all
the same. But the fact that this man was already arranging coolly to murder me made my task
less unpalatable. The British sporting instinct is incurable.

"Piragoff's scheme was perfectly simple. We should go together to the house, we should bring
away the spoil--I carrying half--convey it to my premises in Saul Street early on Sunday morning.
Then we should break up the 'stuff,' and when our labors were concluded, and I was of no further
use, he would knock me on the head. The quiet back gate would enable him to carry away the
booty in instalments to his lodgings. Then he would lock the gate and vanish. In a few days
the police would break into my house and find my body; and Mr. Piragoff, in his hotel at, say
Amsterdam, would read an account of the inquest. It was delightfully simple and effective,
but it failed to take into account the player on the opposite side of the board. 

"He will make nothing of that," whispered Mr. Lee. "Poor Master Peregrine was no more a Whig
than old Sir Philip there."

"'Twill prejudice the jury," whispered back Mr. Harcourt, "and discredit
the lady's testimony."

Mr.
Cowper concluded by observing that half truths had come to light in the former trial, but whole
truths would give a different aspect to the affair, and show the unfortunate deceased to have
given offence, not only as a man of gallantry, but as a patriot, and to have fallen a victim to
the younger bravoes of the so-called Tory party. To his (the counsel's) mind, it was plain that
the prisoner, who had hoped that his crime was undiscovered and forgotten, had returned to
take his share in the rising against Government so happily frustrated.

He was certain that the traitor Charnock had been received at his father's house, and that
Mr. Sedley Archfield had used seditious language on several occasions, so that the cause of
the prisoner's return at this juncture was manifest, and only to the working of Providence could
it be ascribed that the evidence of the aggravated murder should have at that very period been
brought to light.

There was an evident sensation, and glances were cast at the upright, military figure, standing
like a sentinel, as if the audience expected him to murder them all.

As before, the examination began with Robert Oakshott's identification
of the clothes and sword, but Mr. Cowper avoided the subject of the
skeleton, and went on to inquire about the terms on which the two
young men had lived.

"Well," said Robert, "they quarrelled, but in a neighbourly sort of
way."

"What do you call a neighbourly way?"

"My poor brother used to be baited for being so queer. But then we were as bad to him as the rest,"
said Robert candidly.

"That is, when you were boys?"

"Yes."

"And after his return from his travels?"

"It was the same then. He was too fine a gentleman for any one's
taste."

"You speak generally. Was there any especial animosity?"

"My brother bought a horse that Archfield was after."

"Was there any dispute over it?"

"Not that I know of."

"Can you give an instance of displeasure manifested by the prisoner
at the deceased?"

"I have seen him look black when my brother held a gate open for
his wife."

"Then there were gallant attentions towards Mrs. Archfield?"

Charles's face flushed, and he made a step forward, but Robert gruffly answered: "No more than
civility; but he had got Frenchified manners, and liked to tease
Archfield."

"Did they ever come to high words before you?"

"No. They knew better."

"Thank you, Mr. Oakshott," said the prisoner, as it was intimated
that Mr. Cowper had finished. "You bear witness that only the most
innocent civility ever passed between your brother and my poor young
wife?"

"Certainly," responded Robert.

"Nothing that could cause
serious resentment, if it excited passing annoyance."

"Nothing."

"What
were your brother's political opinions?"

"Well"-- with some slow consideration-- "he
admired the Queen as was, and could not abide the Prince of Orange.
My father was always at him for it."

"Would you think him likely
to be an emissary to Holland?"

"No one less likely."

But Mr. Cowper
started up. "Sir, I believe you are the younger brother?"

"Yes."

"How
old were you at the time?"

"Nigh upon nineteen."

"Oh!" as if that
accounted for his ignorance.

The prisoner continued, and asked whether
search was made when the deceased was missed.

"Hardly any."

"Why
not?"

"He was never content at home, and we believed he had gone
to my uncle in Muscovy."

"What led you to examine the vault?"

"My
wife was disquieted by stories of my brother's ghost being seen."

"Did
you ever see this ghost?"

"No, never."

That was all that was made
of Robert Oakshott, and then again came Anne Woodford's turn, and
Mr. Cowper was more satirical and less considerate than the day before.
Still it was a less dreadful ordeal than previously, though she had
to tell the worst, for she knew her ground better, and then there
was throughout wonderful support in Charles's eyes, which told her,
whenever she glanced towards him, that she was doing right and as
he wished. As she had not heard the speech for the prosecution it
was a shock, after identifying herself a niece to a'non-swearing'clergyman,
to be asked about the night of the bonfire, and to be forced to tell that
Mrs. Archfield had insisted on getting out of the carriage and walking
about with Mr. Oakshott.

"Was the prisoner present?"

"He
came up after a time."

"Did he show any displeasure?"

"He thought
it bad for her health."

"Did any words pass between him and the deceased?"

"Not
that I remember."

"And now, madam, will you be good enough to recur
to the following morning, and continue the testimony in which you
were interrupted the day before yesterday? What was the hour?"

"The
church clock struck five just after."

"May I ask what took a young
gentlewoman out at such an untimely hour? These neurotic Slav criminals, when they get into a state of panic,
are like frightened cats; very dangerous to be near. And the more frightened, the more dangerous.
I must keep an eye on Piragoff.

"'I can open one of the cabinets,' I said.

"'Then open it, pig! Open it quickly! I want to get away from this place!'

"He grinned at me like an angry monkey, and I led him to the secret cupboard. As I very deliberately
turned the hidden catches and prepared to take out the panel, I considered whether it was not
time to set the apparatus going. For I had prepared a little surprise for Piragoff and I was
now rather doubtful how he would take it. Besides, I was not enjoying the proceedings as much
as I had expected to. Piragoff's lack of nerve was disconcerting.

"However, I took out the panel and stood by to watch the result. Piragoff peered into the cupboard
and uttered a growl of disappointment.

"'There is nothing there but books and those boxes. Lift the boxes down, pig, and let us see
what is in them.'

"I lifted the boxes from the shelf.

"'They are very light,' I said. 'And here are two pistols on top of them.'

"These pistols were the surprise that I had prepared in a spirit of mischief. I had taken them
from the pockets of the last two specimens and kept them for the sake of the devices that those
two imbeciles had scratched on the butts.

"'Pistols!' exclaimed Piragoff. 'Let me look at them.' He snatched the weapons from the top
of the box and took them over to the lamp. Immediately I heard a gasp of astonishment.

"'God! But this is a strange thing! Here is Louis Plotcovitch's pistol! And this other belonged
to Boris Slobodinsky! They have been here too!'

"He stared at me open-mouthed, holding the pistols--which I had carefully unloaded--one in
each trembling hand. Not that all men must be college-bred, but that some men, black and
white, must be, to leaven the ideals of the lump.

Can any serious student of the economic South doubt that this to-day
is her crying need?

Ignorance and poverty are the vastest of the Negro problems. But to these later years have added
a third-- the problem of Negro crime. That a great problem of social morality must have become eventually
the central problem of emancipation is as clear as day to any student
of history.

In its grosser form as a problem of serious crime it is already upon
us.

Of course it is false and silly to represent that white women in
the South are in daily danger of black assaulters.

On the contrary, white womanhood in the South is absolutely safe in the hands of ninety-five
per cent. of the black men-- ten times safer than black womanhood
is in the hands of white men.

Nevertheless, there is a large and dangerous class of Negro criminals,
paupers, and outcasts.

The existence and growth of such a class far from causing surprise,
should be recognized as the natural result of that social disease
called the Negro problem; nearly every untoward circumstance known
to human experience has united to increase Negro crime: the slavery
of the past, the sudden emancipation, the narrowing of economic opportunity,
the lawless environment of wide regions, the stifling of natural ambition,
the curtailment of political privilege, the disregard of the sanctity
of black men's homes, and, above all, a system of treatment for criminals
calculated to breed crime far faster than all other available agencies
could repress it. Here is another box.'
This, the last one, was intended to hold nine heads, but it contained only eight--at present.
There was an empty compartment of red velvet in the middle, on either side of which were the
heads of the last two specimens, twenty-three and twenty-four.

"I took off the lid and stood back to see what would happen.

"Piragoff stared into the box without speaking for two or three seconds. Suddenly he uttered
a shriek. 'It is Boris! Boris and Louis Plotcovitch!'

"His figure stiffened. He stood rigid with his hands on his thighs, leaning over the box, his
hair bristling, his white face running with sweat, his jaw dropped; the very personification
of horror. And of a sudden he began to tremble violently.

"I looked at him with disgust and an instantaneous revulsion of feeling. What! Should I call
in the aid of all those elaborate appliances to dispatch a poor trembling devil like this?
I would have none of them. The concussor was good enough for him. Nay, it was too good.

"I reached out behind me and lifted one of the nooses from its hook. Its own weight had nearly
closed the loop, for the steel eyelet spliced into the end ran very easily and smoothly on
the well-greased rope. I opened the loop wide, and leaning towards Piragoff from behind, quietly
dropped it over his shoulders, pulling it tight as it fell to the level of his elbows. He sprang
up, but at that instant I kicked away one of his feet and pushed him to the unsupported side,
when he fell sprawling face downwards. I gave another tug at the rope, and, as he struggled
to get to his feet, I snatched the fall of the tackle from its hook and ran away with it, hauling
as I went. Looking back, I saw Piragoff slowly rise to the pull of the tackle until he was
upright with his feet just touching the floor. Then I belayed the fall securely to one of a
pair of cleats, and approached him.

"Hitherto, sheer amazement had kept him silent, but as I drew near him he gave a yell of terror.
This would not do. Taking the gag from the place where I had hidden it in readiness, I came
behind him and slipped it over his mouth where I secured it, cautiously evading his attempts
to clutch at me. It was a poor gag--having no tongue-piece--but it answered its purpose, for
it reduced his shouts to mere muffled bellowings, inaudible outside.

"Now that the poor wretch was pinioned and gagged and helpless, my feelings urged me to get
the business over quickly. But certain formalities had to be observed. "Lady Lisle's cell! Oh,
this is no good omen!"

"I call it a goodly legacy even to one who cannot claim to suffer wrongfully," said Charles.
"There, they knock-- one kiss more-- we shall meet again soon. Don't linger in town, but give me all
the days you can. Yes, take her back, Sir Edmund, for she must rest before her journey. Cheer
up, love, and do not lie weeping all night, but believe that your prayers to God and man must
prevail one way or another."

Yet after the night it was with more hope than despondency, Anne, in the February morning, mounted
en croupe behind Mr. Fellowes's servant, that being decided on as the quickest mode of travelling.
She saw the sunrise behind St. Catherine's Hill, and the gray mists filling the valley of the
Itchen, and the towers of the Cathedral and College barely peeping beyond them. Would her life
rise out of the mist?

Through hoar-frosted hedges, deeply crested with white, they rode,
emerging by and by on downs, becoming dully green above, as the sun
touched them, but white below.

Suddenly, in passing a hollow, overhung by two or three yew-trees, they found themselves surrounded
by masked horsemen. The servant on her horse was felled, she herself snatched off and a kerchief
covered her face, while she was crying, "Oh sir, let me go! I am
on business of life and death."

The
covering was stuffed into her mouth, and she was borne along some little way; then there was
a pause, and she freed herself enough to say, "You shall have everything; only let me go;" and she
felt for the money with which Sir Philip had supplied her, and for
the watch given her by King James.

"We want you; nothing of yours," said a voice. "Don't be afraid. No one will hurt you; but we must
have you along with us."

Therewith she was pinioned by two large hands, and a bandage was made fast over her eyes, and when
she shrieked out, "Mr. Fellowes!

Oh! where are you?" she was answered-- "No harm has been done to the parson. He will be free
as soon as any one comes by.'Tis you we want. Now, I give you fair
notice, for we don't want to choke you; there's no one to hear a squall.
If there were, we should gag you, so you had best be quiet, and you shall
suffer no hurt.

Now then, by your leave, madam." She was lifted
on horseback again, and a belt passed round her and the rider in
front of her. Again she strove, in her natural voice, to plead that to
stop her would imperil a man's life, and to implore for release. "We
know all that," she was told. It was not rudely said. The voice was
not that of a clown; it was a gentleman's pronunciation, and this was in
some ways more inexplicable and alarming. When the last specimen was finished and put
in its place in the museum, my work was done. I had now only to wait quietly for the end. And
for that I am now waiting, I hope not impatiently. 

I make no apology for bringing the United States Government in thus conspicuously. The General
Government must give aid to Southern education if illiteracy and ignorance are to cease threatening
the very foundations of civilization within any reasonable time. And in that hope I rest content; believing that
soon I shall hear the curfew chime steal out of the evening mist to tell me that the day is
over and that my little spark may be put out."

THE END

