But although there was by no means total ignorance, there was what is to us a scarcely comprehensible
want of understanding. To the average mediæval student, perhaps to any mediæval student, it
seems seldom or never to have occurred that the men of whom he was reading had lived under
a dispensation so different from his own in law and in religion, in politics and in philosophy,
in literature and in science, that an elaborate process of readjustment was necessary in order
to get at anything like a real comprehension of them. Nor was he, as a rule, able--men of transcendent
genius being rather rare, amid a more than respectable abundance of men of talent--to take
them, as Chaucer did to a great extent, Dante more intensely though less widely, and Shakespeare
(but Shakespeare had already felt the Renaissance spirit) fully and perfectly, on the broad
ground of humanity, so that anachronisms, and faults of costume, matter not one jot to any
one but a pedant or a fool. When he came to something in the story--something in sentiment,
manners, religion, what not--which was out of the range of his own experience, he changed it
into something within the range of his own experience. When the whole story did not lend itself
to the treatment which he wished to apply, he changed it, added to it, left out from it, without
the slightest scruple. He had no more difficulty in transforming the disciplined tactic of
the Macedonian phalanx into a series of random chevauchées than in adjusting the much more
congenial front-fighting of Greeks and Trojans to his own ideas; and it cost him little more
to engraft a whole brand-new romantic love-story on the Tale of Troy than to change the historical
siege of Gaza into a Fuerres de Gadres, of which Aimeri of Narbonne or Raoul de Cambrai would
have been the appropriate hero. Sometimes, indeed, he simply confounded Persians and Saracens,
just as elsewhere he confounded Saracens and Vikings; and he introduced high priests of heathen
divinities as bishops, with the same sang froid with which long afterwards the translators
of the Bible founded an order of "dukes" in Edom.

A study of antiquity conducted in such a fashion could hardly have coloured mediæval thought
with any real classicism, even if it had been devoted to much more genuine specimens of antiquity
than the semi-Oriental medley of the Pseudo-Callisthenes and the bit of bald euhemerism which
had better have been devoted to Hephæstus than ascribed to his priest. But, by another very
curious fact, the two great and commanding examples of the Romance of Antiquity were executed
each under the influence of the flourishing of one of the two mightiest branches of mediæval
poetry proper. When Alberic and the decasyllabist (whoever he was) wrote, the chanson de geste
was in the very prime of its most vigorous manhood, and the Roman d'Alixandre accordingly took
not merely the outward form, but the whole spirit of the chanson de geste itself. And when
Benoît de Sainte-More gave the first shapings of the great story of Troilus and Cressida out
of the lifeless rubbish-heap of Dares, it was at the precise minute when also, in hands known
or unknown, the greater story of Arthur and Gawain, of Lancelot and Guinevere, was shaping
itself from materials probably even scantier. Even Guido of the Columns, much more Boccaccio,
had this story fully before them; and Cressida, when at last she becomes herself, has, if nothing
of the majesty of Guinevere, a good deal of Iseult--an Iseult more faithless to love, but equally
indifferent to anything except love. As Candace in Alexander has the crude though not unamiable
naturalism of a chanson heroine, so Cressid--so even Briseida to some extent--has the characteristic
of the frail angels of Arthurian legend. The cup would have spilled wofully in her husband's
hand, the mantle would scarcely have covered an inch of her; but though of coarser make, she
is of the same mould with the ladies of the Round Table,--she is of the first creation of the
order of romantic womanhood.

[Sidenote: Special interest of Early Middle English.]

The positive achievements of English literature, during the period with which this volume deals,
are not at first sight great; and all the more finished literary production of the time, till
the extreme end of it, was in French and Latin. But the work done during this time in getting
the English language ready for its future duties, in equipping it with grammar and prosody,
in preparing, so to speak, for Chaucer, is not only of the first importance intrinsically,
but has a value which is almost unique in general literary history as an example. Nowhere else
have we the opportunity of seeing a language and a literature in the process of gestation,
or at least of a reformation so great as to be almost equal to new birth. Of the stages which
turned Latin through the Romanic vulgar tongues into Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Provençal,
French, we have the very scantiest remains; and though the Strasburg oaths and the Eulalia
hymn are no doubt inestimable in their way, they supply exceedingly minute and precarious stepping-stones
by which to cross from Ausonius to the Chanson de Roland. From the earliest literary stages
of the Teutonic tongues we have, except in the case of Anglo-Saxon and Icelandic, very little
wreckage of time; and Anglo-Saxon at least presents the puzzling characteristic that its earliest
remains are, coeteris paribus, nearly as complete and developed as the earliest remains of
Greek. In German itself, whether High or Low, the change from oldest to youngest is nothing
like the change from the English of Beowulf to the English of Browning. And though the same
process of primordial change as that which we have seen in English took place certainly in
German, and possibly in the Romance tongues, it is nowhere traceable with anything like the
same clearness or with such gradual development. By the eleventh century at latest in France,
by the end of the twelfth in Germany, verse had taken, in the first case fully, in the second
almost fully, a modern form. In England it was, during the two hundred years from 1150 to 1350,
working itself steadily, and with ample examples, from pure accent to accentual quantity, and
from alliteration to rhyme. Of this process, and those similar to it in other countries, we
shall give an account which will serve for the whole in the latter part of this chapter; the
actual production and gradual transformation of English language and literature generally may
occupy us in the earlier part.

It is to be hoped that by this time a middle way, tolerably free from molestation, may be taken
between those historians of English who would have a great gulf fixed before Chaucer, and those
who insist upon absolute continuity from Cædmon to Tennyson. There must surely be something
between dismissing (as did the best historian of the subject in the last generation) Anglo-Saxon
as "that nocturnal portion of our literature," between calling it "impossible to pronounce
with certainty whether anything in it is artistically good or bad,"[88] and thinking it proper,
as it has sometimes been thought, in an examination in English literature, to give four papers
to Cædmon, Ælfric, and Wulfstan, and one to the combined works of Addison, Pope, Johnson, and
Burke. Extravagances of the latter kind have still, their heyday of reaction not being quite
past, a better chance than extravagances of the former. But both may surely be avoided.

[Footnote 88: See Craik, History of English Literature, 3d ed. (London, 1866), i. 55.]

[Sidenote: Decay of Anglo-Saxon.]

