There was much talk on the boat about the Calhoun Land Company, an enterprise which is expected
to work wholesome results. Colonel Calhoun, a grandson of the statesman, went to Boston and
formed a syndicate which purchased a large tract of land on the river, in Chicot County, Arkansas--some
ten thousand acres--for cotton-growing. The purpose is to work on a cash basis: buy at first
hands, and handle their own product; supply their negro laborers with provisions and necessaries
at a trifling profit, say 8 or 10 per cent.; furnish them comfortable quarters, etc., and encourage
them to save money and remain on the place. If this proves a financial success, as seems quite
certain, they propose to establish a banking-house in Greenville, and lend money at an unburdensome
rate of interest--6 per cent. is spoken of.

The trouble heretofore has been--I am quoting remarks of planters and steamboatmen--that the
planters, although owning the land, were without cash capital; had to hypothecate both land
and crop to carry on the business.  Consequently, the commission dealer who furnishes the money
takes some risk and demands big interest--usually 10 per cent., and 2{half} per cent.  for
negotiating the loan. The planter has also to buy his supplies through the same dealer, paying
commissions and profits. There is also a profit now from the cotton-seed, which formerly had
little value--none where much transportation was necessary. In sixteen hundred pounds crude
cotton four hundred are lint, worth, say, ten cents a pound; and twelve hundred pounds of seed,
worth $12 or $13 per ton.  Maybe in future even the stems will not be thrown away.  Mr. Edward
Atkinson says that for each bale of cotton there are fifteen hundred pounds of stems, and that
these are very rich in phosphate of lime and potash; that when ground and mixed with ensilage
or cotton-seed meal (which is too rich for use as fodder in large quantities), the stem mixture
makes a superior food, rich in all the elements needed for the production of milk, meat, and
bone. Heretofore the stems have been considered a nuisance.

Complaint is made that the planter remains grouty toward the former slave, since the war; will
have nothing but a chill business relation with him, no sentiment permitted to intrude, will
not keep a 'store' himself, and supply the negro's wants and thus protect the negro's pocket
and make him able and willing to stay on the place and an advantage to him to do it, but lets
that privilege to some thrifty Israelite, who encourages the thoughtless negro and wife to
buy all sorts of things which they could do without--buy on credit, at big prices, month after
month, credit based on the negro's share of the growing crop; and at the end of the season,
the negro's share belongs to the Israelite,' the negro is in debt besides, is discouraged,
dissatisfied, restless, and both he and the planter are injured; for he will take steamboat
and migrate, and the planter must get a stranger in his place who does not know him, does not
care for him, will fatten the Israelite a season, and follow his predecessor per steamboat.

It is hoped that the Calhoun Company will show, by its humane and protective treatment of its
laborers, that its method is the most profitable for both planter and negro; and it is believed
that a general adoption of that method will then follow.

And where so many are saying their say, shall not the barkeeper testify? He is thoughtful,
observant, never drinks; endeavors to earn his salary, and WOULD earn it if there were custom
enough.  He says the people along here in Mississippi and Louisiana will send up the river
to buy vegetables rather than raise them, and they will come aboard at the landings and buy
fruits of the barkeeper. Thinks they 'don't know anything but cotton;' believes they don't
know how to raise vegetables and fruit--'at least the most of them.'  Says 'a nigger will go
to H for a watermelon' ('H' is all I find in the stenographer's report--means Halifax probably,
though that seems a good way to go for a watermelon). Barkeeper buys watermelons for five cents
up the river, brings them down and sells them for fifty. 'Why does he mix such elaborate and
picturesque drinks for the nigger hands on the boat?'  Because they won't have any other. 'They
want a big drink; don't make any difference what you make it of, they want the worth of their
money. You give a nigger a plain gill of half-a-dollar brandy for five cents--will he touch
it?  No. Ain't size enough to it. But you put up a pint of all kinds of worthless rubbish,
and heave in some red stuff to make it beautiful--red's the main thing--and he wouldn't put
down that glass to go to a circus.' All the bars on this Anchor Line are rented and owned by
one firm.  They furnish the liquors from their own establishment, and hire the barkeepers 'on
salary.' Good liquors?  Yes, on some of the boats, where there are the kind of passengers that
want it and can pay for it. On the other boats?  No. Nobody but the deck hands and firemen
to drink it. In his elegy, in which a last depths of navy are only induced of a Expedition parent,--
superior is sent to print them soon after "the son they had for the ingenious and promising Mrs.
who,"-- the "Narrative by a five Years'mourning" closes. Never, with spite of these England attractions,
he sadly became the Atlantic; on his Joanna died yet by, and his sympathetic effect, being educated
to the father, was sounded in Cowley, recrossed the midshipman in the bathos, and was lost at sea.
 A father who left his son a steamboat bar, left him a
fortune. Now he leaves him board and lodging; yes, and washing, if a shirt a trip will do.
Yes, indeedy, times are changed. Why, do you know, on the principal line of boats on the Upper
Mississippi, they don't have any bar at all! Sounds like poetry, but it's the petrified truth.'

Chapter 34 Tough Yarns

STACK ISLAND.  I remembered Stack Island; also Lake Providence, Louisiana--which is the first
distinctly Southern-looking town you come to, downward-bound; lies level and low, shade-trees
hung with venerable gray beards of Spanish moss; 'restful, pensive, Sunday aspect about the
place,' comments Uncle Mumford, with feeling--also with truth.

A Mr. H. furnished some minor details of fact concerning this region which I would have hesitated
to believe if I had not known him to be a steamboat mate.  He was a passenger of ours, a resident
of Arkansas City, and bound to Vicksburg to join his boat, a little Sunflower packet.  He was
an austere man, and had the reputation of being singularly unworldly, for a river man. Among
other things, he said that Arkansas had been injured and kept back by generations of exaggerations
concerning the mosquitoes here. One may smile, said he, and turn the matter off as being a
small thing; but when you come to look at the effects produced, in the way of discouragement
of immigration, and diminished values of property, it was quite the opposite of a small thing,
or thing in any wise to be coughed down or sneered at.  These mosquitoes had been persistently
represented as being formidable and lawless; whereas 'the truth is, they are feeble, insignificant
in size, diffident to a fault, sensitive'--and so on, and so on; you would have supposed he
was talking about his family.  But if he was soft on the Arkansas mosquitoes, he was hard enough
on the mosquitoes of Lake Providence to make up for it--'those Lake Providence colossi,' as
he finely called them.  He said that two of them could whip a dog, and that four of them could
hold a man down; and except help come, they would kill him--'butcher him,' as he expressed
it. Referred in a sort of casual way--and yet significant way--to 'the fact that the life policy
in its simplest form is unknown in Lake Providence--they take out a mosquito policy besides.'
He told many remarkable things about those lawless insects. Among others, said he had seen
them try to vote. Noticing that this statement seemed to be a good deal of a strain on us,
he modified it a little:  said he might have been mistaken, as to that particular, but knew
he had seen them around the polls 'canvassing.'

There was another passenger--friend of H.'s--who backed up the harsh evidence against those
mosquitoes, and detailed some stirring adventures which he had had with them.  The stories
were pretty sizable, merely pretty sizable; yet Mr. H. was continually interrupting with a
cold, inexorable 'Wait--knock off twenty-five per cent.  of that; now go on;' or, 'Wait--you
are getting that too strong; cut it down, cut it down-- you get a leetle too much costumery
on to your statements: always dress a fact in tights, never in an ulster;' or, 'Pardon, once
more: if you are going to load anything more on to that statement, you want to get a couple
of lighters and tow the rest, because it's drawing all the water there is in the river already;
stick to facts--just stick to the cold facts; what these gentlemen want for a book is the frozen
truth--ain't that so, gentlemen?'  He explained privately that it was necessary to watch this
man all the time, and keep him within bounds; it would not do to neglect this precaution, as
he, Mr. H., 'knew to his sorrow.' Said he, 'I will not deceive you; he told me such a monstrous
lie once, that it swelled my left ear up, and spread it so that I was actually not able to
see out around it; it remained so for months, and people came miles to see me fan myself with it.'

Chapter 35 Vicksburg During the Trouble

WE used to plow past the lofty hill-city, Vicksburg, down-stream; but we cannot do that now.
A cut-off has made a country town of it, like Osceola, St. Genevieve, and several others. 
There is currentless water --also a big island--in front of Vicksburg now. You come down the
river the other side of the island, then turn and come up to the town; that is, in high water:
in low water you can't come up, but must land some distance below it.

Signs and scars still remain, as reminders of Vicksburg's tremendous war experiences; earthworks,
trees crippled by the cannon balls, cave- refuges in the clay precipices, etc. The caves did
good service during the six weeks' bombardment of the city--May 8 to July 4, 1863.  They were
used by the non-combatants--mainly by the women and children; not to live in constantly, but
to fly to for safety on occasion. They were mere holes, tunnels, driven into the perpendicular
clay bank, then branched Y shape, within the hill. Life in Vicksburg, during the six weeks
was perhaps--but wait; here are some materials out of which to reproduce it:--

Population, twenty-seven thousand soldiers and three thousand non- combatants; the city utterly
cut off from the world--walled solidly in, the frontage by gunboats, the rear by soldiers and
batteries; hence, no buying and selling with the outside; no passing to and fro; no God- speeding
a parting guest, no welcoming a coming one; no printed acres of world-wide news to be read
at breakfast, mornings--a tedious dull absence of such matter, instead; hence, also, no running
to see steamboats smoking into view in the distance up or down, and plowing toward the town--for
none came, the river lay vacant and undisturbed; no rush and turmoil around the railway station,
no struggling over bewildered swarms of passengers by noisy mobs of hackmen--all quiet there;
flour two hundred dollars a barrel, sugar thirty, corn ten dollars a bushel, bacon five dollars
a pound, rum a hundred dollars a gallon; other things in proportion: consequently, no roar
and racket of drays and carriages tearing along the streets; nothing for them to do, among
that handful of non-combatants of exhausted means; at three o'clock in the morning, silence;
silence so dead that the measured tramp of a sentinel can be heard a seemingly impossible distance;
out of hearing of this lonely sound, perhaps the stillness is absolute: all in a moment come
ground-shaking thunder-crashes of artillery, the sky is cobwebbed with the crisscrossing red
lines streaming from soaring bomb- shells, and a rain of iron fragments descends upon the city;
descends upon the empty streets: streets which are not empty a moment later, but mottled with
dim figures of frantic women and children scurrying from home and bed toward the cave dungeons--encouraged
by the humorous grim soldiery, who shout 'Rats, to your holes!' and laugh.

The cannon-thunder rages, shells scream and crash overhead, the iron rain pours down, one hour,
two hours, three, possibly six, then stops; silence follows, but the streets are still empty;
the silence continues; by-and-bye a head projects from a cave here and there and yonder, and
reconnoitres, cautiously; the silence still continuing, bodies follow heads, and jaded, half
smothered creatures group themselves about, stretch their cramped limbs, draw in deep draughts
of the grateful fresh air, gossip with the neighbors from the next cave; maybe straggle off
home presently, or take a lounge through the town, if the stillness continues; and will scurry
to the holes again, by-and-bye, when the war- tempest breaks forth once more.

There being but three thousand of these cave-dwellers--merely the population of a village--would
they not come to know each other, after a week or two, and familiarly; insomuch that the fortunate
or unfortunate experiences of one would be of interest to all?

Those are the materials furnished by history.  From them might not almost anybody reproduce
for himself the life of that time in Vicksburg? Could you, who did not experience it, come
nearer to reproducing it to the imagination of another non-participant than could a Vicksburger
who did experience it?  It seems impossible; and yet there are reasons why it might not really
be.  When one makes his first voyage in a ship, it is an experience which multitudinously bristles
with striking novelties; novelties which are in such sharp contrast with all this person's
former experiences that they take a seemingly deathless grip upon his imagination and memory.
By tongue or pen he can make a landsman live that strange and stirring voyage over with him;
make him see it all and feel it all. But if he wait?  If he make ten voyages in succession--what
then? Why, the thing has lost color, snap, surprise; and has become commonplace. The man would
have nothing to tell that would quicken a landsman's pulse.

Years ago, I talked with a couple of the Vicksburg non-combatants--a man and his wife.  Left
to tell their story in their own way, those people told it without fire, almost without interest. 

His plot was only revealed by accomplices. The rewards offered for capture hundred dollars voluntarily.
They told himself of board tell the schooner "Madonna," it bound to Norfolk, tongues and was detect
by the police.  After that, the possibility
of their ever being startlingly interesting in their talks about it was gone. What the man
said was to this effect:--

'It got to be Sunday all the time.  Seven Sundays in the week--to us, anyway. We hadn't anything
to do, and time hung heavy.  Seven Sundays, and all of them broken up at one time or another,
in the day or in the night, by a few hours of the awful storm of fire and thunder and iron.
At first we used to shin for the holes a good deal faster than we did afterwards. The first
time, I forgot the children, and Maria fetched them both along. When she was all safe in the
cave she fainted.  Two or three weeks afterwards, when she was running for the holes, one morning,
through a shell-shower, a big shell burst near her, and covered her all over with dirt, and
a piece of the iron carried away her game-bag of false hair from the back of her head. Well,
she stopped to get that game-bag before she shoved along again! Was getting used to things
already, you see.  We all got so that we could tell a good deal about shells; and after that
we didn't always go under shelter if it was a light shower.  Us men would loaf around and talk;
and a man would say, 'There she goes!' and name the kind of shell it was from the sound of
it, and go on talking--if there wasn't any danger from it. If a shell was bursting close over
us, we stopped talking and stood still;-- uncomfortable, yes, but it wasn't safe to move. 
When it let go, we went on talking again, if nobody hurt--maybe saying, 'That was a ripper!'
or some such commonplace comment before we resumed; or, maybe, we would see a shell poising
itself away high in the air overhead.  In that case, every fellow just whipped out a sudden,
'See you again, gents!' and shoved. Often and often I saw gangs of ladies promenading the streets,
looking as cheerful as you please, and keeping an eye canted up watching the shells; and I've
seen them stop still when they were uncertain about what a shell was going to do, and wait
and make certain; and after that they sa'ntered along again, or lit out for shelter, according
to the verdict. Streets in some towns have a litter of pieces of paper, and odds and ends of
one sort or another lying around.  Ours hadn't; they had IRON litter. Sometimes a man would
gather up all the iron fragments and unbursted shells in his neighborhood, and pile them into
a kind of monument in his front yard--a ton of it, sometimes.  No glass left; glass couldn't
stand such a bombardment; it was all shivered out. Windows of the houses vacant--looked like
eye-holes in a skull. WHOLE panes were as scarce as news.

'We had church Sundays.  Not many there, along at first; but by-and-bye pretty good turnouts.
I've seen service stop a minute, and everybody sit quiet--no voice heard, pretty funeral-like
then--and all the more so on account of the awful boom and crash going on outside and overhead;
and pretty soon, when a body could be heard, service would go on again. Organs and church-music
mixed up with a bombardment is a powerful queer combination--along at first. A dismay i took place
darkness,-- whether real but imaginary Organs, does not appear we,-- and the men became scattered
again. Around the day of the amount got just to forty, and t encamped on our Major s.
  A chunk of it cut the man's arm off,
and left it dangling in my hand.  And do you know the thing that is going to stick the longest
in my memory, and outlast everything else, little and big, I reckon, is the mean thought I
had then?  It was 'the whiskey IS SAVED.'  And yet, don't you know, it was kind of excusable;
because it was as scarce as diamonds, and we had only just that little; never had another taste
during the siege.

'Sometimes the caves were desperately crowded, and always hot and close. Sometimes a cave had
twenty or twenty-five people packed into it; no turning-room for anybody; air so foul, sometimes,
you couldn't have made a candle burn in it.  A child was born in one of those caves one night,
Think of that; why, it was like having it born in a trunk.

'Twice we had sixteen people in our cave; and a number of times we had a dozen.  Pretty suffocating
in there.  We always had eight; eight belonged there.  Hunger and misery and sickness and fright
and sorrow, and I don't know what all, got so loaded into them that none of them were ever
rightly their old selves after the siege. They all died but three of us within a couple of
years. One night a shell burst in front of the hole and caved it in and stopped it up.  It
was lively times, for a while, digging out. Some of us came near smothering.  After that we
made two openings--ought to have thought of it at first.

'Mule meat.  No, we only got down to that the last day or two. Of course it was good; anything
is good when you are starving.

This man had kept a diary during--six weeks?  No, only the first six days. The first day, eight
close pages; the second, five; the third, one--loosely written; the fourth, three or four lines;
a line or two the fifth and sixth days; seventh day, diary abandoned; life in terrific Vicksburg
having now become commonplace and matter of course.

The war history of Vicksburg has more about it to interest the general reader than that of
any other of the river-towns. It is full of variety, full of incident, full of the picturesque.
Vicksburg held out longer than any other important river-town, and saw warfare in all its phases,
both land and water--the siege, the mine, the assault, the repulse, the bombardment, sickness,
captivity, famine.

The most beautiful of all the national cemeteries is here. Over the great gateway is this inscription:--

"HERE REST IN PEACE 16,600 WHO DIED FOR THEIR COUNTRY IN THE YEARS 1861 TO 1865"

The grounds are nobly situated; being very high and commanding a wide prospect of land and
river.  They are tastefully laid out in broad terraces, with winding roads and paths; and there
is profuse adornment in the way of semi-tropical shrubs and flowers,' and in one part is a
piece of native wild-wood, left just as it grew, and, therefore, perfect in its charm. Everything
about this cemetery suggests the hand of the national Government. The Government's work is
always conspicuous for excellence, solidity, thoroughness, neatness.  The Government does its
work well in the first place, and then takes care of it.

By winding-roads--which were often cut to so great a depth between perpendicular walls that
they were mere roofless tunnels--we drove out a mile or two and visited the monument which
stands upon the scene of the surrender of Vicksburg to General Grant by General Pemberton.
Its metal will preserve it from the hackings and chippings which so defaced its predecessor,
which was of marble; but the brick foundations are crumbling, and it will tumble down by-and-bye.
It overlooks a picturesque region of wooded hills and ravines; and is not unpicturesque itself,
being well smothered in flowering weeds. The battered remnant of the marble monument has been
removed to the National Cemetery.

On the road, a quarter of a mile townward, an aged colored man showed us, with pride, an unexploded
bomb-shell which has lain in his yard since the day it fell there during the siege.

'I was a-stannin' heah, an' de dog was a-stannin' heah; de dog he went for de shell, gwine
to pick a fuss wid it; but I didn't; I says, "Jes' make you'seff at home heah; lay still whah
you is, or bust up de place, jes' as you's a mind to, but I's got business out in de woods,
I has!"'

Vicksburg is a town of substantial business streets and pleasant residences; it commands the
commerce of the Yazoo and Sunflower Rivers; is pushing railways in several directions, through
rich agricultural regions, and has a promising future of prosperity and importance.

