The command halted ten minutes every hour for rest, but the sun poured down upon us, and I
was glad to stay in the ambulance. It was at these times that my thoughts turned back to the
East and to the blue sea and the green fields of God's country. I looked out at the men, who
were getting pretty well fagged, and at the young officers whose uniforms were white with dust,
and Frau Weste's words about glaenzendes Elend came to my mind. I fell to thinking: was the
army life, then, only "glittering misery," and had I come to participate in it?

Some of the old soldiers had given out, and had to be put on the army wagons. I was getting
to look rather fagged and seedy, and was much annoyed at my appearance. Not being acquainted
with the vicissitudes of the desert, I had not brought in my travelling-case a sufficient number
of thin washbodices. The few I had soon became black beyond recognition, as the dust boiled
(literally) up and into the ambulance and covered me from head to foot. But there was no help
for it, and no one was much better off.

It was about that time that we began to see the outlines of a great mountain away to the left
and north of us. It seemed to grow nearer and nearer, and fascinated our gaze.

Willow Grove Springs was reached at four o'clock and the small cluster of willow trees was
most refreshing to our tired eyes. The next day's march was over a rolling country. We began
to see grass, and to feel that, at last, we were out of the desert. The wonderful mountain
still loomed up large and clear on our left. I thought of the old Spanish explorers and wondered
if they came so far as this, when they journeyed through that part of our country three hundred
years before. I wondered what beautiful and high-sounding name they might have given it. I
wondered a good deal about that bare and isolated mountain, rising out of what seemed an endless
waste of sand. I asked the driver if he knew the name of it: "That is Bill Williams' mountain,
ma'am," he replied, and relapsed into his customary silence, which was unbroken except by an
occasional remark to the wheelers or the leaders.

I thought of the Harz Mountains, which I had so recently tramped over, and the romantic names
and legends connected with them, and I sighed to think such an imposing landmark as this should
have such a prosaic name. I realized that Arizona was not a land of romance; and when Jack
came to the ambulance, I said, "Don't you think it a pity that such monstrous things are allowed
in America, as to call that great fine mountain 'Bill Williams' mountain'?"

"Why no," he said; "I suppose he discovered it, and I dare say he had a hard enough time before
he got to it."

We camped at Fort Rock, and Lieutenant Bailey shot an antelope. It was the first game we had
seen; our spirits revived a bit; the sight of green grass and trees brought new life to us.

Anvil Rock and old Camp Hualapais were our next two stopping places. We drove through groves
of oaks, cedars and pines, and the days began hopefully and ended pleasantly. To be sure, the
roads were very rough and our bones ached after a long day's travelling. But our tents were
now pitched under tall pine trees and looked inviting. Soldiers have a knack of making a tent
attractive.

"Madame, the Lieutenant's compliments, and your tent is ready."

I then alighted and found my little home awaiting me. The nest may often be discovered at a distance
by the appearance of the surrounding grass, the blades of which are in many cases interwoven over the
nest, apparently to shield the bird from the fierce rays of the sun, which are felt with redoubled
force on the marshes.

The Rails feed on both vegetable and animal food. During the months of September and October,
the weeds and wild oats swarm with them. They feed on the nutricious seeds, small snail shells,
worms and larvae of insects, which they extract from the mud. The habits of the Sora Rail, its
thin, compressed body, its aversion to take wing, and the dexterity
with which it runs or conceals itself among the grass and sedge, are
exactly similar to those of the more celebrated Virginia Rail.

The Sora frequents those parts of marshes preferably where fresh water springs rise through
the morass.

Here it generally constructs its nest, "one of which," says an observer, "we had the good fortune
to discover. It was built in the bottom of a tuft of grass in the midst of an almost impenetrable
quagmire, and was composed altogether of old wet grass and rushes. The eggs had been flooded out
of the nest by the extraordinary rise of the tide in a violent northwest storm, and lay scattered
about the drift weed. The usual number of eggs is from six to ten. They are of a dirty white
or pale cream color, sprinkled with specks of reddish and pale purple, most numerous near the
great end."

When on the wing the Sora Rail flies in a straight line for a short
distance with dangling legs, and suddenly drops into the water.

The
Rails have many foes, and many nests are robbed of their eggs by weasels,
snakes, Blackbirds, and Marsh Hawks, although the last cannot disturb
them easily, as the Marsh Hawk searches for its food while flying
and a majority of the Rails'nests are covered over, making it hard
to distinguish them when the Hawk is above. Colonel Wilkins and his family left us, and drove on to
their destination. Some officers of the Fifth Cavalry rode out to greet us, and Lieutenant
Earl Thomas asked me to come into the post and rest a day or two at their house, as we then
had learned that K Company was to march on to Camp Apache, in the far eastern part of the Territory.

We were now enabled to get some fresh clothing from our trunks, which were in the depths of
the prairie-schooners, and all the officers' wives were glad to go into the post, where we
were most kindly entertained. Fort Whipple was a very gay and hospitable post, near the town
of Prescott, which was the capital city of Arizona. The country being mountainous and fertile,
the place was very attractive, and I felt sorry that we were not to remain there. But I soon
learned that in the army, regrets were vain. I soon ceased to ask myself whether I was sorry
or glad at any change in our stations.

On the next day the troops marched in, and camped outside the post. The married officers were
able to join their wives, and the three days we spent there were delightful. There was a dance
given, several informal dinners, drives into the town of Prescott, and festivities of various
kinds. General Crook commanded the Department of Arizona then; he was out on some expedition,
but Mrs. Crook gave a pleasant dinner for us. After dinner, Mrs. Crook came and sat beside
me, asked kindly about our long journey, and added: "I am truly sorry the General is away;
I should like for him to meet you; you are just the sort of woman he likes." A few years afterwards
I met the General, and remembering this remark, I was conscious of making a special effort
to please. The indifferent courtesy with which he treated me, however, led me to think that
women are often mistaken judges of their husband's tastes.

The officers' quarters at Fort Whipple were quite commodious, and after seven weeks' continuous
travelling, the comforts which surrounded me at Mrs. Thomas' home seemed like the veriest luxuries.
I was much affected by the kindness shown me by people I had never met before, and I kept wondering
if I should ever have an opportunity to return their courtesies. "Don't worry about that, Martha,"
said Jack, "your turn will come."

He proved a true prophet, for sooner or later, I saw them all again, and was able to extend
to them the hospitality of an army home. Nevertheless, my heart grows warm whenever I think
of the people who first welcomed me to Arizona, me a stranger in the army, and in the great
southwest as well.

At Fort Whipple we met also some people we had known at Fort Russell, who had gone down with
the first detachment, among them Major and Mrs. Wilhelm, who were to remain at headquarters.
We bade good-bye to the Colonel and his family, to the officers of F, who were to stay behind,
and to our kind friends of the Fifth Cavalry.

We now made a fresh start, with Captain Ogilby in command. Two days took us into Camp Verde,
which lies on a mesa above the river from which it takes its name.

Captain Brayton, of the Eight Infantry, and his wife, who were already settled at Camp Verde,
received us and took the best care of us. Mrs. Brayton gave me a few more lessons in army house-keeping,
and I could not have had a better teacher. I told her about Jack and the tinware; her bright
eyes snapped, and she said: "Men think they know everything, but the truth is, they don't know
anything; you go right ahead and have all the tinware and other things; all you can get, in
fact; and when the time comes to move, send Jack out of the house, get a soldier to come in
and pack you up, and say nothing about it."

"But the weight--"

"Fiddlesticks! They all say that; now you just not mind their talk, but take all you need,
and it will get carried along, somehow."

Still another company left our ranks, and remained at Camp Verde. The command was now getting
deplorably small, I thought, to enter an Indian country, for we were now to start for Camp
Apache. Several routes were discussed, but, it being quite early in the autumn, and the Apache
Indians being just then comparatively quiet, they decided to march the troops over Crook's
Trail, which crossed the Mogollon range and was considered to be shorter than any other. It
was all the same to me. I had never seen a map of Arizona, and never heard of Crook's Trail.
Maps never interested me, and I had not read much about life in the Territories. At that time,
the history of our savage races was a blank page to me. I had been listening to the stories
of an old civilization, and my mind did not adjust itself readily to the new surroundings.

CHAPTER IX. ACROSS THE MOGOLLONS

It was a fine afternoon in the latter part of September, when our small detachment, with Captain
Ogilby in command, marched out of Camp Verde. There were two companies of soldiers, numbering
about a hundred men in all, five or six officers, Mrs. Bailey and myself, and a couple of laundresses.
I cannot say that we were gay. Mrs. Bailey had said good-bye to her father and mother and sister
at Fort Whipple, and although she was an army girl, she did not seem to bear the parting very
philosophically. Her young child, nine months old, was with her, and her husband, as stalwart
and handsome an officer as ever wore shoulder-straps. But we were facing unknown dangers, in
a far country, away from mother, father, sister and brother--a country infested with roving
bands of the most cruel tribe ever known, who tortured before they killed. We could not even
pretend to be gay.

The travelling was very difficult and rough, and both men and animals were worn out by night. Another
pair had a nest on a large rock. These were made of coarse sticks and sea weed, anything handy,
such as bones, old shoes, straw, etc. A curious nest was found some years ago on the coast of
New Jersey. It contained three eggs, and securely imbedded in the loose material of the Osprey's
nest was a nest of the Purple Grackle, containing five eggs, while at the bottom of the Hawk's
nest was a thick, rotten limb, in which was a Tree Swallow's nest
of seven eggs.

I remember thinking, as we alighted from our ambulances and stood looking over into the Basin,
"Surely I have never seen anything to compare with this--but oh! would any sane human being
voluntarily go through with what I have endured on this journey, in order to look upon this
wonderful scene?"

The roads had now become so difficult that our wagon-train could not move as fast as the lighter
vehicles or the troops. Sometimes at a critical place in the road, where the ascent was not
only dangerous, but doubtful, or there was, perhaps, a sharp turn, the ambulances waited to
see the wagons safely over the pass. Each wagon had its six mules; each ambulance had also
its quota of six.

At the foot of one of these steep places, the wagons would halt, the teamsters would inspect
the road, and calculate the possibilities of reaching the top; then, furiously cracking their
whips, and pouring forth volley upon volley of oaths, they would start the team. Each mule
got its share of dreadful curses. I had never heard or conceived of any oaths like those. They
made my blood fairly curdle, and I am not speaking figuratively. The shivers ran up and down
my back, and I half expected to see those teamsters struck down by the hand of the Almighty.

For although the anathemas hurled at my innocent head, during the impressionable years of girlhood,
by the pale and determined Congregational ministers with gold-bowed spectacles, who held forth
in the meeting-house of my maternal ancestry (all honor to their sincerity), had taken little
hold upon my mind, still, the vital drop of the Puritan was in my blood, and the fear of a
personal God and His wrath still existed, away back in the hidden recesses of my heart.

This swearing and lashing went on until the heavily-loaded prairie-schooner, swaying, swinging,
and swerving to the edge of the cut, and back again to the perpendicular wall of the mountain,
would finally reach the top, and pass on around the bend; then another would do the same. Each
teamster had his own particular variety of oaths, each mule had a feminine name, and this brought
the swearing down to a sort of personal basis. I remonstrated with Jack, but he said: teamsters
always swore; "the mules wouldn't even stir to go up a hill, if they weren't sworn at like that." 

In the south these Rails are found keeping company with the Bobolinks or Reed-birds as they are
called down there.

THE KENTUCKY WARBLER.

Although this bird is called the Kentucky Warbler, we must not think
he visits that state alone.

We
find him all over eastern North America. And a beautiful bird he is.

As his name tells you he is one of a family of Warblers.

I told you
somewhere else that the Finches are the largest family of birds. Next
to them come the Warblers.

Turn back now and see how many Warblers
have been pictured so far.

See if you can tell what things group
them as a family. Notice their bills and feet.

This bird is usually
found in the dense woods, especially where there are streams of water.

I did not ask what became of the poor faithful mules; I do not know, to this day. In my pity
and real distress over the fate of these patient brutes, I forgot to inquire what boxes were
on the unfortunate wagon.

We began to have some shooting. Lieutenant Bailey shot a young deer, and some wild turkeys,
and we could not complain any more of the lack of fresh food.

It did not surprise us to learn that ours was the first wagon-train to pass over Crook's Trail.
For miles and miles the so-called road was nothing but a clearing, and we were pitched and
jerked from side to side of the ambulance, as we struck large rocks or tree-stumps; in some
steep places, logs were chained to the rear of the ambulance, to keep it from pitching forward
onto the backs of the mules. At such places I got out and picked my way down the rocky declivity.

We now began to hear of the Apache Indians, who were always out, in either large or small bands,
doing their murderous work.

One day a party of horseman tore past us at a gallop. Some of them raised their hats to us
as they rushed past, and our officers recognized General Crook, but we could not, in the cloud
of dust, distinguish officers from scouts. All wore the flannel shirt, handkerchief tied about
the neck, and broad campaign hat.

After supper that evening, the conversation turned upon Indians in general, and Apaches in
particular. We camped always at a basin, or a tank, or a hole, or a spring, or in some canon,
by a creek. Always from water to water we marched. Our camp that night was in the midst of
a primeval grove of tall pine trees; verily, an untrodden land. We had a big camp-fire, and
sat around it until very late. There were only five or six officers, and Mrs. Bailey and myself.

The darkness and blackness of the place were uncanny. We all sat looking into the fire. Somebody
said, "Injuns would not have such a big fire as that."

"No; you bet they wouldn't," was the quick reply of one of the officers.

Then followed a long pause; we all sat thinking, and gazing into the fire, which crackled and
leaped into fitful blazes.

"Our figures must make a mighty good outline against that fire," remarked one of officers,
nonchalantly; "I dare say those stealthy sons of Satan know exactly where we are at this minute,"
he added.

"Yes, you bet your life they do!" answered one of the younger men, lapsing into the frontiersman's
language, from the force of his convictions.

"Look behind you at those trees, Jack," said Major Worth. "Can you see anything? No! And if
there were an Apache behind each one of them, we should never know it."

We all turned and peered into the black darkness which surrounded us.

Another pause followed; the silence was weird--only the cracking of the fire was heard, and
the mournful soughing of the wind in the pines. 

The Kentucky Warbler's song is entirely unlike that of any other Warbler,
and is a loud, clearly whistled performance of five, six, or seven
notes, turdle, turdle, turdle, resembling in tone some of the calls
of the Carolina Wren. The weird feeling of being up in those
remote mountain passes, with but a handful of soldiers against the wary Apaches, the mysterious
look of those black tree-trunks, upon which flickered the uncertain light of the camp-fire
now dying, and from behind each one of which I imagined a red devil might be at that moment
taking aim with his deadly arrow, all inspired me with fear such as I had never before known.

In the cyclone which had overtaken our good ship in mid-Atlantic, where we lay tossing about
at the mercy of the waves for thirty-six long hours, I had expected to yield my body to the
dark and grewsome depths of the ocean. I had almost felt the cold arms of Death about me; but
compared to the sickening dread of the cruel Apache, my fears then had been as naught. Facing
the inevitable at sea, I had closed my eyes and said good-bye to Life. But in this mysterious
darkness, every nerve, every sense, was keenly alive with terror.

Several of that small party around the camp-fire have gone from amongst us, but I venture to
say that, of the few who are left, not one will deny that he shared in the vague apprehension
which seized upon us.

