The Students' Aid Committee consists at present of representatives from sixteen settlements,
who meet twice a month to discuss and decide upon the merit of each applicant. If aid is granted,
the girl is assigned to the settlement nearest her home and goes there weekly for her money.
An envelope showing the amount due the girl is sent from the school to the settlement worker,
and on this is indicated any absence or tardiness. It is one of the duties of the member of
the committee to inquire the reasons for any irregularity in attendance, and, if necessary,
to report to the parent. In addition, each settlement worker renders valuable service by giving
friendly oversight to the girls and families in her group, by doing as much for their welfare
as time will allow, and by reporting any unusual conditions to the Students' Aid Secretary.

Students are at times sent to the school for instruction with a request for aid from some charitable
institution, church, hospital, school, or settlement which knows and is interested in the family;
but, in general, a girl needing financial help comes without such recommendations, and consequently
a more thorough investigation of the case is necessary. Inquiry is always made at first of
the Charity Organization Society, in order to learn whether her family has received or is receiving
other relief. The "trial month" without aid gives time for the gathering of facts about the
family, and for a test of the girl's ability and character. Aid is never promised to a girl
before her admission.

A useful method has been worked out for determining the amount of aid which may be given in
any one case. The total amount of the family income is obtained, and from it are deducted the
fixed expenses for rent, insurance, and car fare. From the remainder the per capita income
is found which must provide for all other expenses, that is, for each person's share of food,
clothing, light, fuel, medicine, and all incidentals. It was estimated that a family could
not maintain a decent standard of living on a per capita income of less than $1.50 a week.
Although each case is considered on its merits, aid is almost always given when the per capita
income is less than $1.50; in some special cases it is granted when the income exceeds this
amount. The following table shows the income of the seventy-eight families that were being
aided by the school on June 3, 1909.

 ------------------+--------------------
 Weekly per Capita | Number of Families.
      Income.      |
 ------------------+--------------------
                   |
  $ .00 to $ .49   |         16
                   |
    .50 to   .99   |         26
                   |
   1.00 to  1.49   |         20
                   |
   1.50 to  1.99   |         10
                   |
   2.00 to  2.49   |          3
                   |
   2.50 to  2.99   |          1
                   |
   3.00 to  3.49   |          2
                   |
 ------------------+--------------------

Relief given by charitable institutions has not been included in this income.

Each girl receiving aid is told the reason for its bestowal in such a way that she will neither
look upon it as money earned nor feel humiliated as a recipient of charity, but will understand
that it should mean for her an opportunity to obtain a good education. It therefore is incumbent
upon her to show a realization of its value by becoming a responsible and earnest worker. Students
receiving such assistance are expected to attend regularly, unless for excellent reasons, and
the reports from their departments must be satisfactory in regard to their work, attitude,
and effort. If a girl varies from this standard and, after talking with her or with one of
her parents, no improvement follows, the aid may be suspended or withdrawn. Improving circumstances
in a family occasionally make it possible to decrease or even to give up the aid. On the other
hand, it is often found necessary to ask additional assistance from special philanthropic sources
when the need is very great.

Night Classes

Night continuation classes are a part of the aim of the school. They have offered training
in expert parts of the Operating, Dressmaking, Novelty, Millinery, and Art trades. The classes
were well attended, the work successful, and continued application for the renewal of the instruction
has been received. This class of education requires the most skilled teachers and is consequently
expensive. Lack of money to conduct both the day and the night work adequately has made it
necessary to close the night classes temporarily. There is every reason to hope, however, that
they will be reopened in the near future, with still greater facilities for teaching the advanced
parts of the trades.

Student Government

The Student Council concerns itself with the government of the school, the aim being to place
it as far as possible in the hands of the students. It also assists in developing their sense
of responsibility. The Council is composed of representatives elected from each class, who
have been chosen for their executive ability and good character. They meet once a week with
one of the supervisors to discuss questions of general school discipline and regulations. Each
member is responsible for maintaining order in her class when it is not under other supervision,
for settling disputes among the girls, and for reporting disobedience to school laws.

Graduate and Department Clubs

Some form of alumnæ association has been in existence since the end of the first school year.
This important phase of the Trade School work is now thoroughly organized, and gains for us
the warm coöperation of those who have benefited by the instruction. The Graduate Association
includes those who have received the certificate of the school; the department clubs, however,
are more democratic, and admit to membership any girl who has been in attendance. These associations
work together for the benefit of the school. They hold frequent business as well as social
meetings. They plan definite ways for getting in touch with Manhattan Trade School girls who
are just entering trade, in order to help them to adjust themselves to their work and to increase
in them loyalty and responsibility to the school; for improving themselves and working girls
in general by discussing topics of interest concerning their trades, and by giving entertainments
which are of real interest and value. They have carried out schemes for adding to the general
finances of the school or for obtaining money for special objects, such as shower baths for
the gymnasium. They have given several suppers to bring the faculty and former students together,
in order to discuss informally trade and school matters.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] This maximum is not in paste or glue work, but in the silk lampshade trade.

PART II

REPRESENTATIVE PROBLEMS[B]

The organizing of a girls' trade school in any given locality necessitates the meeting of many
problems of a serious nature. Some of these appear immediately and require consideration before
a satisfactory curriculum can be developed, but most of them are hydra-headed, and one phase
is no sooner settled than another arises. Attention must be given to them whenever they come
if any progress is to be made in solving the question of the broadest and yet most practical
education for the girl who must earn her living in trade. These problems are so connected with
the keenest yet most obscure social and industrial questions of the day on one hand, and, on
the other, with the future of the race, that they are often very puzzling. Some of them can
never be entirely settled, though they can be temporarily adjusted to immediate needs. The
following are selected as representative.

Direct Trade Training

Many schools of a domestic or technical nature have been opened in the United States, but the
instruction in them is for the home or for educational purposes rather than for business. The
trades, if they are represented at all in these schools, are general in character, covering
often many branches of an industry in a short series of lessons, and not having the particular
subdivisions and special equipment which are found at present in the regular market. Employers
of labor have not been favorably impressed with the practical usefulness of the graduates in
their workrooms. As the sole reason for the existence of the Manhattan Trade School is to meet
this requirement of employers, and therefore to develop a better class of wage-earners directly
adapted to trade needs, the instruction must be in accord with methods in the shops and factories
of New York City. Such specific trade education for fourteen-year-old girls was new, and therefore
the problem of organization had to be faced for the first time in America. Careful study of
the workrooms and the industrial conditions of New York City was essential before the aims
or the curriculum could be decided upon and the school could be opened for instruction. Furthermore,
if the training is to be kept up to date this study of trade conditions must not cease, and
readjustments of the curriculum must equal the changes taking place in the outside workrooms.
Consequently these problems must be met repeatedly.

Need of Preliminary Training

On beginning the trade courses at the school a difficulty was discovered immediately which
brought home the truth of the complaint made by trade that young workers are utterly incompetent.
The students coming to the school were allowed by law to enter trade, as they had met all requirements
for obtaining their working papers, but they were not found to have sufficient foundation to
begin the first simple steps at the school without some preliminary training. The defects which
were especially evident were: (1) lack of sufficient skill with the hand; (2) inability to
utilize their public school academic work in practical trade problems; (3) dullness in taking
orders and in thinking clearly of the needs which arise; (4) absence of ideals; and (5) need
of knowledge of the laws of health and how to apply them. Preliminary, elementary instruction
in all of these subjects had, therefore, to be organized and given to the entering students
before they could begin upon their true trade work. Such instruction is and will continue to
be necessary unless the public elementary school arranges to give, between the fifth and eighth
grades, a more satisfactory preparation to those who must earn their living. The Manhattan
Trade School has been obliged to give from two to eight months to elementary branches of instruction
alone. The kind of work needed varies constantly with the condition of the students. Every
one requires some of it, but many must take months of tutoring. Public instruction could readily
give the practical academic work which the school has organized. Such instruction would not
only directly help the pupils who must leave early to work, but would lay a good foundation
for the vocational education which is being planned for the early years of the public secondary
schools.

Vocational Training

As the courses at the Manhattan Trade School developed, an intermediate phase between the preparatory
work and the direct trade training took definite shape. This middle ground partakes in many
ways of trade processes and lays a good foundation for shop work. It utilizes the early education,
gives point to it, awakens in the student enthusiasm for her chosen trade, and shows her that
it is worth her while to work hard if she would succeed. It takes from four to eight months,
according to the student's ability to meet the requirements. Public instruction could also
develop this intermediate field to advantage for those who, not wishing to enter the regular
high school course, would be glad to avail themselves of further practical education. Such
occupations for women as cooking, sewing, garment and dressmaking, millinery, laundry work,
home nursing, household administration, care of children, novelty work, electric power operating,
salesmanship, and other interesting activities can well be offered in Vocational Education.
As the student in her chosen field plans, considers expenses, and contrives to utilize her
material she gains skill, adaptability, judgment, and the true basis of criticism. The world's
work interests her as its meaning becomes clear through her own experiences, and she begins
to see ways to better her condition and to be a factor in the improvement of her home. She
appreciates the value of her early education, and finds it worth while to think clearly and
to act wisely; she listens to instructions, asks sensible directions, and goes to work without
waste of time. The elementary and intermediate training just described, which the school found
it must give preparatory to its real trade instruction, has proved advantageous as an introduction,
for the student can now quickly adapt herself to the work in the school shops, as she possesses
the foundation qualities needed to make the best worker. She has to begin at the simplest trade
work, to be sure, but can rise as rapidly as she shows ability. She has been carefully watched
by her instructors and turned gradually in the direction best fitted to her.

Trade Shops

Offering courses in many varieties of trade work exactly as they are found in a city like New
York has many recurring difficulties, as has been before stated. The constant and rapid adaptations
to fashion, the new mechanical devices introduced, and the labor situations are factors to
be considered. The management must be ready at a moment's notice to change, increase, or drop
work according to the demands of a fickle market. It would seem, therefore, that at present
the problems of the school trade shops are of too serious and unsettled a character for adequate
solution by public instruction as at present organized, for (1) it would be difficult to persuade
the mass of taxpayers that added tax rates are advisable for beginning a continually altering
form of education which has not yet commended itself to all employers or to all wage-earners,
and which must be more or less expensive; (2) the usual public school committee man knows little
of trade conditions, and would probably be averse to allowing a school the freedom to change
at will its course of study and even the very trades it teaches; yet, on the other hand, if
the trade school must wait for board action before altering its plans, it would prejudice the
value of its instruction, which must be flexible if it would train its students directly for
the market; (3) the impossibility of obtaining its teachers from the usual "waiting list" and
the difficulties attending the selection of a satisfactory teaching force.

The possibilities for offering highly specialized, skilled work are great, but the poverty
of the students limits their time at the day school. To help all girls who work, and who wish
to get ahead, night classes have been organized from time to time, and during the day also
temporary instruction is offered to any one who has a slack time in her trade. As the school
is organized into trade shops, with the same specialization as in the market, a student can
enter or be placed from almost any point. This increases its usefulness but complicates its
management.

Obtaining and Training Teachers

As trade instruction is new in education, the normal schools have not begun training teachers
regularly for these positions, nor, indeed, are they yet prepared to do so. The organizer of
a trade school faces, therefore, a serious difficulty in obtaining instructors who are adequate
to the task before them.

The following trade teaching staff is needed: supervisors of the various trades; forewomen
to direct the school shops; trade instructors to teach the various groups of students the specialized
processes; assistants to attend to minor matters in the workrooms; art teachers, who have had
experience in designing for the various trades represented; academic instructors who know the
working world practically and can give the students a training which, while helping them in
their trades, will broaden their knowledge of and sympathy in the world's work. All of these
teachers must not only have had experience in trade, but must continually keep in touch with
the methods of the outside market. Unsuccessful trade workers, who often wish to teach, or
teachers who know nothing of the needs of trade workrooms, cannot adequately prepare students
for specific trade positions. Trade knows what it wants, is a severe critic and an unsparing
judge. The trade school, therefore, cannot afford to rely on instructors who would be themselves
unsuccessful in the market, for the result would be certain failure in the students. Such specific
training requires exceptional knowledge in its teaching force. The usual teacher of manual
training knows too little of the ways of the workrooms and is too theoretical in her instruction
to be trusted to train workers who must satisfy trade demands. On the other hand, the trade
worker, good as she may be in her specialty, seldom knows how to teach. She can drive her group
of workers, but she cannot train the green hands to do more than work quickly at one thing.
She can make them work, but she cannot make them better workers. When she has orders to turn
out, her lifelong training makes her think of the rapid completion of the articles rather than
the careful development of the students who are making them. If she is not watched she will
choose the girl to do a piece of work who can do it well and quickly (but who does not need
this experience), rather than the one who should do it in order to have practice in it.

The problem is to find a way to unite the good teacher and the successful worker. Such a combination
appears at rare intervals. At the present time the teacher who can adequately prepare young
workers for trade has to be taught while she is herself teaching. She may be chosen from either
the industrial or the educational field, if she has certain qualities of mind and spirit, but
she must now make up the points she lacks, be it experience in trade or ability to teach. Supervisors
need special insight and capability, as they are called upon to investigate a new and difficult
field, to select from it the subjects needed, and after that to organize education of a most
practical kind. They combine the duties of school principal, teacher, forewoman, factory superintendent,
and business manager. They must be willing to give themselves to the cause, as they are responsible
for the conduct of their departments throughout the year, at night as well as during the day,
at least until they can train some one to whom they can delegate some of their responsibility.
They need a broad, cultural education and, at the same time, interest and knowledge of the
industrial problems of the time, as well as experience in their particular trade. They must
have sympathy with the working people and their lives. It is evident that such women are hard
to find, and when found or when trained are in demand by other institutions or in business
life, in which places they can command high salaries. All efficient trade teachers also are
equally in demand in workrooms, hence the school must compete with good business salaries in
place of the usual underpay of educational institutions.

In addition to the trade teachers, practical instructors in healthful living and special secretaries
needing social knowledge of various kinds are also essential in the modern trade school for
girls. Their training adds to the director's responsibilities, for no one at present has the
knowledge and experience necessary.

The many problems connected with obtaining an adequate teaching staff seem at present to have
but one solution, i. e., the school has to be its own training school for its faculty to a
greater or less extent. One source of assistant teachers has been found in students who have
made good in trade. Pupils of fair education who show skill and executive ability in their
department work and who later succeed in their trade positions have already proved helpful
when brought back to the school. Such girls know the courses of instruction, their needs and
difficulties, and also the outside workroom demands. If they are given some hints in methods
of teaching, their success is greater. European trade schools for girls have drawn many of
the best teachers from the student body and have organized teachers' training classes for them.
A course of regular training for trade pupil teachers should be given later in American training
schools to meet this situation.

Courses of Study

As the changes about to occur in the market must be recognized and inserted in the curriculum
in time for the students to be prepared for the new work when they are placed, set courses
of study cannot be followed without endangering the practical value of the teaching. Furthermore,
the pupils must be advanced as they show ability, and their different characteristics should
have consideration; hence the work must be sufficiently flexible and adaptable to allow for
increasing one kind of training and decreasing another, in order to develop a girl's best ability.
It is not the trade courses only which should be fitted to the need, but the trade-art, trade-academic,
and physical education must also shift and introduce needed material as quickly as would the
market grasp at new plans for the workrooms. Nor is it sufficient that the curriculum should
adapt itself merely to training girls for trade positions. It is never to be forgotten that
these students are to be made into higher grade workers and citizens, and that the greater
number of them will marry. In general, it can be said that woman's entrance into industry is
more or less temporary in that it is apt to precede or to follow marriage, and, as a rule,
is not continuous. Good citizenship for these young wage-earners should mean the better home
as well as the broader views of industrial life. The inserting into an already too brief training
the important factors for making the better home-keeper requires study of the ethics and economics
of home and social life in addition to the study of the industrial situation, and places continuous
problems before the faculty.

Investigations

In order to be in vital touch with the practical needs and changes of the market, special investigations
of trade have been and are continually conducted by the faculty of the school. Effort is made
by them also to keep in close contact with industrial and social organizations of workers in
settlements, clubs, societies, and unions, that all phases of the wage-earner's life, pleasures,
aims, and needs, may be appreciated. The pupils in attendance are studied to know their conditions
of health, their tendencies, their needs, their improvement. After their entry into trade they
are kept in touch with the school through the Placement Bureau, clubs, graduate associations,
and also by visits from the school's investigator, in order to note the effect of their training
on their self-support, their workrooms, and their homes. Groups of trained and untrained girls
are compared, that differences and benefits may be noted and the true situation may be clearly
understood.

That the essentials of this class of education might be grasped as far as possible, the director
of the school made a six months' investigation of the professional schools for girls on the
continent of Europe. This study was made after the Manhattan Trade School had been organized
and was running successfully. The problems were then well in hand, and advantage could be taken
the better of differing standpoints. In some European countries such practical instruction
has been established for half a century. Each country has organized the work according to its
own view of woman's position in industrial and domestic life. Many aspects of the problem can
therefore be studied and various courses of instruction consulted. This investigation covered
three interesting fields. First, the organization of the schools, including the equipment;
the teachers and their training; the budget; the order work; the relation of the school to
employers; the placing of the girls in positions; the wages; the schemes for financial aid,
and the work of the alumnæ associations. Second, the trades taught and the courses of instruction;
the general education required at entrance and that given as an integral part of trade; the
trade-art courses; the housekeeping and training of servants; the development of ideas of better
living and the training for responsibility in home and trade life. Third, the visiting of workrooms
employing women; the obtaining information on the effect of trade schools; the students' usefulness
and ability to advance, and a survey of the crafts conducted in the homes of the people.

Trade Order Administration

A trade school must do its skilled handwork in the fashion of the day and on correct materials,
yet the students are too poor to work for themselves. A school budget cannot supply such large
quantities of valuable materials unless it can get some return for them. The school shop in
each department, where orders both private and custom are taken, has proved advantageous, but
involves great problems of administration: (1) the actual business methods and management connected
with the invoices, sales, and delivery of goods; (2) the obtaining of orders needed and of
the quantity desirable; (3) the taking of custom orders, fitting the customer, and delivery
of orders on time; (4) a satisfactory apportionment of the order work so that the students
may profit by it and not be expected to continue it after they have had sufficient experience
of one kind, or if they are not yet able to do the elaborate work involved; (5) the finding
of operatives who will do what the students cannot or should not do; (6) the expense involved
in employing workers at trade prices and for shorter hours; (7) the cost of articles, and other
details which are involved in entering into competition with trade. It may be stated that no
trade school should underbid the market, but should charge the full prices and expect to give
equivalent returns. A trade school cannot afford to be an amateur supported by a philanthropic
public, but must have a recognized business standard.

Placement

Problems of varied kinds meet the school in placing its students. Each new enactment of child
labor or industrial laws has its influence. Even a good law will sometimes have a temporary
serious effect in lowering wages or turning capable girls out of satisfactory positions. Care
must be exercised that students are not placed where there is a possibility of running counter
to the best interests of labor. The desire to place each pupil where she can develop to her
highest condition requires continual knowledge of the market needs and of the characteristics
of the many girls. Records of students entering, studying, and placed, the kinds of positions
open, and industrial and labor information must be kept up to date, yet such data are often
hard to secure.

Trade Union Attitude

An important question that is always before a trade school is the effect the instruction may
have on the working people. It is difficult for one not continually in the midst of the pressure
of the actual trade to know the many ways that thoughtless advance in trade teaching may react
to the disadvantage of the very ones that the school wishes to help. Injury may be done by
preparing too many for certain occupations, filling places where a strike is on, replacing
well-paid positions with trade school girls at a less price, placing the girls at too small
a wage for their skill, doing order work at too low a price or when a strike is on, considering
too closely the fitting of a worker for the employer's benefit rather than for the broadening
of her own life, and like thoughtless actions. The difficulties of the situation are great
and the solution frequently obscure, but a fair-minded school must be in touch with the effort
the working woman herself has inaugurated to better her condition. The apparently unnecessary
suspicion with which the laboring class regards the organization of trade instruction would
have foundation if no thought were given to the trade conditions as the working girl sees them.
A trade school for fourteen-year-old girls need not make a point of their immediate entrance
into unions, but it should consider the subject simply and wisely in all its bearings, that
the students may know the full aims and advantages of coöperation as well as the point of view
and many difficulties of the employers.

Contact with Trade

The faculty of a trade school needs the coöperation and assistance of the working people and
the employers of labor. Only through intimate interrelation with them can the best and most
practical results be obtained. Auxiliaries and committees of employers and of wage-earners;
visits of the staff of the school to trade, and of employers, forewomen, and workers to the
school; the carrying out of orders for workrooms and assisting them at busy seasons, are some
of the ways by which the Manhattan Trade School has tried to gain the help of the busy industrial
world.

Problems of Financial Aid

The aid given to enable the poorest students to attend the school has brought its own questions,
such as: the danger of pauperizing the recipients; the methods of selecting the beneficiaries;
the best way to give the weekly aid; the development of a spirit of earnest work and regular
attendance in the girls thus aided; the stimulation of a desire to return some equivalent in
special helpfulness to the Manhattan Trade School or to its students, and the eliminating of
this philanthropic effort from any apparent relation to school work.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] In order to explain these problems, it will be necessary to repeat some of the data in Part I.

PART III

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPORT

Housing and Equipment

The first home of the Manhattan Trade School was a large four-story and basement dwelling house,
for which a rental of $2,100 per annum was paid. The initial permanent equipment and first
temporary stock provided for one hundred students, and cost $9,500. This amount was utilized
principally for the furnishing of special rooms for electric power operating; for sewing; for
dressmaking; for millinery; for pasting; and for the more general equipment of offices, academic
and art rooms, a kitchen, and a lunch room. The following lists show the range of expenses
for furnishing the main workrooms with necessary equipment:

GARMENT OR DRESSMAKING WORKROOM

 Sewing machines, each                           $18.00 to $70.00
 Work, cutting, and ironing tables, each           6.00 to  20.00 upward
 Electric irons, each                              7.75
 Gas stove (necessary when electric irons are
     not used), each                               2.00 upward
 Cheval glass, each                               20.00 to 100.00 upward
 Chairs, each                                       .50 to   3.00 upward
 Exhibition, stock closets, cabinets, and
     chests of drawers, each                      10.00 to 100.00 upward
 Fitting stands, each                              2.00 to  30.00 upward
 Fitting room (a curtained alcove), each          10.00 upward
 Fitting room (a furnished room), each           100.00 upward
 Dress forms, per dozen                           30.00 upward
 Waist forms, per dozen                            6.00 upward
 Sleeve forms, pair                                1.00 to 1.50 upward
 Lockers, per running foot                         3.00 to 8.00 upward

A room for twenty workers may be plainly furnished at a cost of $300 to $500. If a large number
of expensive sewing machines are desired, the estimates must be increased by several hundred
dollars. The Manhattan Trade School has forty foot-power machines of the kinds most in use
in the workrooms of New York.

The equipping of a workroom for electric power operating, including general and special machines,
motor, cutting and work tables, cabinets and chairs, will be considerably more expensive than
the one for garment making. In the latter, one sewing machine can be used by several workers,
but in electric operating each worker must have her own machine. The electric motor adds also
to the expense. The minimum cost of equipping a shop for twenty workers would be $1,000 to
$1,500. The necessary equipment would be as follows:

ELECTRIC OPERATING WORKROOM

 Plain sewing machines in rows, per head                $22.50 upward
 Troughs for work between the rows and tables for the
     machines (per every two machines)                   10.00
 Special machines (two needle, embroidery, lace stitch,
     buttonhole, straw sewing, and the like),
     each according to kind                              35.00 to 125.00
 Motor, each                                            140.00 upward
 Electric cutter, each                                   25.00 upward
 Cabinets, tables, chairs, and irons, see above

The Manhattan Trade School has fifty-five plain electric sewing machines and thirty-two special
machines, as follows: three buttonhole, one two-needle, one binding, one zigzag, five hemstitching,
five tucker, four Bonnaz, one braider, one hand embroidery, one scalloping, nine straw sewing.

In workrooms conducting trades which use paste, gum, and glue, the following special equipment
is required:

 Glue pots, gas, each                     $7.50 upward
 Glue pots, electric, each                21.75 upward
 Hand cutter, each                        50.00 upward
 Cabinets, tables, chairs, see above

The cost of equipping a shop would be from $200 to $400.

Special machines for perforating designs or for pleating materials are often needed in teaching
the garment trades. Wholesale prices can usually be obtained when the order is large. Dealers
have also shown themselves willing to sell their machines at low prices, to loan them, and
even to give them to a school which has proved its ability to train good workers.

