"Amy," said Webb, now quietly taking the book, "your dread at such times is constitutional.
If there were need, you could face danger as well as any of us. You would have all a woman's
fortitude, and that surpasses ours. Take the world over, the danger from lightning is exceedingly
slight, and it's not the danger that makes you tremble, but your nervous organization."

"You interpret me kindly," she said, "but I don't see why nature is so full of horrible things.
If Gertrude had been bitten by the snake, she might have fared even worse than the poor girl
of whom I have read."

Miss Hargrove could not forbear a swift, grateful glance at Burt.

"I do not think nature is full of horrible things," Webb resumed. "Remember how many showers
have cooled the air and made the earth beautiful and fruitful in this region. In no other instance
that I know anything about has life been destroyed in our vicinity. There is indeed a side
to nature that is full of mystery--the old dark mystery of evil; but I should rather say it
is full of all that is beautiful and helpful. At least this seems true of our region. I have
never seen so much beauty in all my life as during the past year, simply because I am forming
the habit of looking for it."

"Why, Webb," exclaimed Amy, laughing, "I thought your mind was concentrating on crops and subjects
as deep as the ocean."

"It would take all the salt of the ocean to save that remark," he replied; but he beat a rather
hasty retreat.

"Well, Amy," said Mr. Clifford, "you may now dismiss your fears. I imagine that in our tropical
storm summer has passed; and with it thunder-showers and sudden floods. We may now look forward
to two months of almost ideal weather, with now and then a day that will make a book and a
wood fire all the more alluring."

The old gentleman's words proved true. The days passed like bright smiles, in which, however,
lurked the pensiveness of autumn. Slowly failing maples glowed first with the hectic flush
of disease, but gradually warmer hues stole into the face of Nature, for it is the dying of
the leaves that causes the changes of color in the foliage.

CHAPTER L

IMPULSES OF THE HEART

The fall season brought increased and varied labors on the farm and in the garden. As soon
as the ground was dry after the tremendous storm, and its ravages had been repaired as far
as possible, the plows were busy preparing for winter grain, turnips were thinned out, winter
cabbages and cauliflowers cultivated, and the succulent and now rapidly growing celery earthed
up. The fields of corn were watched, and as fast as the kernels within the husks--now becoming
golden-hued--were glazed, the stalks were cut and tied in compact shocks. The sooner maize
is cut, after it has sufficiently matured, the better, for the leaves make more nutritious
fodder if cured or dried while still full of sap. From some fields the shocks were wholly removed,
that the land might be plowed and seeded with grain and grass. Buckwheat, used merely as a
green and scavenger crop, was plowed under as it came into blossom, and that which was sown
to mature was cut in the early morning, while the dew was still upon it, for in the heat of
the day the grain shells easily, and is lost. After drying for a few days in compact little
heaps it was ready for the threshing-machine. Then the black, angular kernels--promises of
many winter breakfasts--were spread to dry on the barn floor, for if thrown into heaps or bins
at this early stage, they heat badly.

The Cliffords had long since learned that the large late peaches, that mature after the Southern
crop is out of the market, are the most profitable, and almost every day Abram took to the
landing a load of baskets full of downy beauties. An orange grove, with Its deep green foliage
and golden fruit, is beautiful indeed, but an orchard laden with Crawford's Late, in their
best development, can well sustain comparison. Sharing the honors and attention given to the
peaches were the Bartlett and other early pears. These latter fruits were treated in much the
same way as the former. The trees were picked over every few days, and the largest and ripest
specimens taken, their maturity being indicated by the readiness of the stem to part from the
spray when the pear is lifted. The greener and imperfect fruit was left to develop, and the
trees, relieved of much of their burden, were able to concentrate their forces on what was
left. The earlier red grapes, including the Delaware, Brighton, and Agawam, not only furnished
the table abundantly, but also a large surplus for market. Indeed, there was high and dainty
feasting at the Cliffords' every day--fruit everywhere, hanging temptingly within reach, with
its delicate bloom untouched, untarnished.

The storm and the seasonable rains that followed soon restored its fulness and beauty to Nature's
withered face. The drought had brought to vegetation partial rest and extension of root growth,
and now, with the abundance of moisture, there was almost a spring-like revival. The grass
sprang up afresh, meadows and fields grew green, and annual weeds, from seeds that had matured
in August, appeared by the million.

"I am glad to see them," Webb remarked. "Before they can mature any seed the frost will put
an end to their career of mischief, and there will be so many seeds less to grow next spring."

"There'll be plenty left," Leonard replied.

The Cliffords, by their provident system of culture, had prepared for droughts as mariners
do for storms, and hence they bad not suffered so greatly as others; but busy as they were
kept by the autumnal bounty of Nature, and the rewards of their own industry, they found time
for recreation, and thoughts far removed from the material questions of profit and loss. The
drama of life went on, and feeling, conviction, and love matured like the ripening fruits,
although not so openly. As soon as his duties permitted, Burt took a rather abrupt departure
for a hunting expedition in the northern woods, and a day or two later Amy received a note
from Miss Hargrove, saying that she had accepted an invitation to join a yachting party.

"Oh, Webb!" she exclaimed, "I wish you were not so awfully busy all the time. Here I am, thrown
wholly on your tender mercies, and I am neither a crop nor a scientific subject."

He gave her little reason for complaint. The increasing coolness and exhilarating vitality
of the air made not only labor agreeable, but out-door sports delightful, and he found time
for an occasional gallop, drive, or ramble along roads and lanes lined with golden-rod and
purple asters; and these recreations had no other drawback than the uncertainty and anxiety
within his heart. The season left nothing to be desired, but the outer world, even in its perfection,
is only an accompaniment of human life, which is often in sad discord with it.

Nature, however, is a harmony of many and varied strains, and the unhappy are always conscious
of a deep minor key even on the brightest days. To Alf and Johnnie the fall brought unalloyed
joy and promise; to those who were older, something akin to melancholy, which deepened with
the autumn of their life; while to Mr. Alvord every breeze was a sigh, every rising wind a
mournful requiem, and every trace of change a reminder that his spring and summer had passed
forever, leaving only a harvest of bitter memories. Far different was the dreamy pensiveness
with which Mr. and Mrs. Clifford looked back upon their vanished youth and maturity. At the
same time they felt within themselves the beginnings of an immortal youth. Although it was
late autumn with them, not memory, but hope, was in the ascendant.

During damp or chilly days, and on the evenings of late September, the fire burned cheerily
on the hearth of their Franklin stove. The old gentleman had a curious fancy in regard to his
fire-wood. He did not want the straight, shapely sticks from their mountain land, but gnarled
and crooked billets, cut from trees about the place that had required pruning and removal.

"I have associations with such fuel" he said, "and can usually recall the trees--many of which
I planted--from which it came; and as I watch it burn and turn into coals, I see pictures of
what happened many years ago."

One evening he threw on the fire a worm-eaten billet, the sound part of which was as red as
mahogany; then drew Amy to him and said, "I once sat with your father under the apple-tree
of which that piece of wood was a part, and I can see him now as he then looked."

She sat down beside him, and said, softly, "Please tell me how he looked."

In simple words the old man portrayed the autumn day, the fruit as golden as the sunshine,
a strong, hopeful man, who had passed away in a far-distant land, but who was still a living
presence to both. Amy looked at the picture in the flickering blaze until her eyes were blinded
with tears. But such drops fall on the heart like rain and dew, producing richer and more beautiful
life.

The pomp and glory of October were ushered in by days of such surpassing balminess and brightness
that it was felt to be a sin to remain indoors. The grapes had attained their deepest purple,
and the apples in the orchard vied with the brilliant and varied hues of the fast-turning foliage.
The nights were soft, warm, and resonant with the unchecked piping of insects. From every tree
and shrub the katydids contradicted one another with increasing emphasis, as if conscious that
the time was at hand when the last word must be spoken. The stars glimmered near through a
delicate haze, and in the western sky the pale crescent of the moon was so inclined that the
old Indian might have hung upon it his powder-horn.

On such an evening the young people from the Cliffords' had gathered on Mr. Hargrove's piazza,
and Amy and Gertrude were looking at the new moon with silver in their pockets, each making
her silent wish. What were those wishes? Amy had to think before deciding what she wanted most,
but not Miss Hargrove. Her face has grown thinner and paler during the last few weeks; there
is unwonted brilliancy in her eyes to-night, but her expression is resolute. Her wish and her
hope were at variance. Times of weakness, if such they could be called, would come, but they
should not appear in Burt's or Amy's presence.

The former had just returned, apparently gayer than ever. His face was bronzed from his out-door
life in the Adirondacks. Its expression was also resolute, and his eyes turned oftenest toward
Amy, with a determined loyalty. As has been said, not long after the experiences following
the storm, he had yielded to his impulse to go away and recover his poise. He felt that if
he continued to see Miss Hargrove frequently he might reveal a weakness which would lead not
only Amy to despise him, but also Miss Hargrove, should she become aware of the past. As he
often took such outings, the family, with the exception of Webb and Amy, thought nothing of
it. His brother and the girl he had wooed so passionately now understood him well enough to
surmise his motive, and Amy had thought, "It will do him good to go away and think awhile,
but it will make no difference; this new affair must run its course also." And yet her heart
began to relent toward him after a sisterly fashion. She wondered if Miss Hargrove did regard
him as other than a friend to whom she owed very much. If so, she smiled at the idea of standing
in the way of their mutual happiness. She had endured his absence with exceeding tranquillity,
for Webb had given her far more of his society, and she, Alf, and Johnnie often went out and
aided him in gathering the fruit. For some reason these light tasks had been more replete with
quiet enjoyment than deliberate pleasure-seeking.

Burt had been at pains to take, in Amy's presence, a most genial and friendly leave of Miss
Hargrove, but there was no trace of the lover in his manner. His smiles and cordial words had
chilled her heart, and had strengthened the fear that in some way he was bound to Amy. She
knew that she had fascinated and perhaps touched him deeply, but imagined she saw indications
of an allegiance that gave little hope for the future. If he felt as she did, and were free,
he would not have gone away; and when he had gone, time grew leaden-footed. Absence is the
touchstone, and by its test she knew that her father was right, and that she, to whom so much
love had been given unrequited, had bestowed hers apparently in like manner. Then had come
an invitation to join a yachting party to Fortress Monroe, and she had eagerly accepted. With
the half-reckless impulse of pride, she had resolved to throw away the dream that had promised
so much, and yet had ended in such bitter and barren reality. She would forget it all in one
brief whirl of gayety; and she had been the brilliant life of the party. But how often her
laugh had ended in a stifled sigh! How often her heart told her, "This is not happiness, and
never can be again!" Her brief experience of what is deep and genuine in life taught her that
she had outgrown certain pleasures of the past, as a child outgrows its toys, and she had returned
thoroughly convinced that her remedy was not in the dissipations of society.

The evening after her return Burt, with Webb and Amy, had come to call, and as she looked upon
him again she asked herself, in sadness, "Is there any remedy?" She was not one to give her
heart in a half-way manner.

It seemed to her that he had been absent for years, and had grown indefinitely remote. Never
before had she gained the impression so strongly that he was in some way bound to Amy, and
would abide by his choice. If this were true, she felt that the sooner she left the vicinity
the better, and even while she chatted lightly and genially she was planning to induce her
father to return to the city at an early date. Before parting, Amy spoke of her pleasure at
the return of her friend, who, she said, had been greatly missed, adding: "Now we shall make
up for lost time. The roads are in fine condition for horseback exercise, nutting expeditions
will soon be in order, and we have a bee-hunt on the programme."

"I congratulate you on your prospects," said Miss Hargrove. "I wish I could share in all your
fun, but fear I shall soon return to the city."

Burt felt a sudden chill at these words, and a shadow from them fell across his face. Webb
saw their effect, and he at once entered on a rather new role for him. "Then we must make the
most of the time before you go," he began. "I propose we take advantage of this weather and
drive over to West Point, and lunch at Fort Putnam."

"Why, Webb, what a burst of genius!" Amy exclaimed. "Nothing could be more delightful. Let
us go to-morrow for we can't count on such weather long."

Miss Hargrove hesitated. The temptation was indeed strong, but she felt it would not be wise
to yield, and began, hesitatingly, "I fear my engagements--" At this moment she caught a glimpse
of Burt's face in a mirror, and saw the look of disappointment which he could not disguise.
"If I return to the city soon," she resumed, "I ought to be at my preparations."

"Why, Gertrude," said Amy, "I almost feel as if you did not wish to go. Can't you spare one
day? I thought you were to remain in the country till November. I have been planning so much
that we could do together!"

"Surely, Miss Hargrove," added Burt, with a slight tremor in his voice, "you cannot nip Webb's
genius in the very bud. Such an expedition as he proposes is an inspiration."

"But you can do without me," she replied, smiling on him bewilderingly.

It was a light arrow, but its aim was true. Never before had he so felt the power of her beauty,
the almost irresistible spell of her fascination. While her lips were smiling, there was an
expression in her dark eyes that made her words, so simple and natural in themselves, a searching
question, and he could not forbear saying, earnestly, "We should all enjoy the excursion far
more if you went with us."

"Truly, Miss Hargrove," said Webb, "I shall be quenched if you decline, and feel that I have
none of the talent for which I was beginning to gain a little credit."

"I cannot resist such an appeal as that, Mr. Clifford," she said, laughingly.

"This is perfectly splendid!" cried Amy. "I anticipate a marvellous day to-morrow. Bring Fred
also, and let us all vie with each other in encouraging Webb."

"Has that quiet Webb any scheme in his mind?" Miss Hargrove thought, after they had gone. "I
wish that tomorrow might indeed be 'a marvellous day' for us all."

"Can I do without her?" was poor Burt's query. An affirmative answer was slow in coming, though
he thought long and late.

CHAPTER LI

WEBB'S FATEFUL EXPEDITION

Mr. Hargrove had welcomed the invitation that took his daughter among some of her former companions,
hoping that a return to brilliant fashionable life would prove to her that she could not give
it up. It was his wish that she should marry a wealthy man of the city. His wife did not dream
of any other future for her handsome child, and she looked forward with no little complacency
to the ordering of a new and elegant establishment.

At the dinner-table Gertrude had given a vivacious account of her yachting experience, and
all had appeared to promise well; but when she went to the library to kiss her father good-night,
he looked at her inquiringly, and said, "You enjoyed every moment, I suppose?"

She shook her head sadly, and, after a moment, said: "I fear I've grown rather tired of that
kind of thing. We made much effort to enjoy ourselves. Is there not a happiness which comes
without so much effort?"

"I'm sorry," he said, simply.

"Perhaps you need not be. Suppose I find more pleasure in staying with you than in rushing around?"

"That would not last. That is contrary to nature."

"I think it would be less contrary to my nature than forced gayety among people I care nothing
about."

He smiled at her fondly, but admitted to himself that absence had confirmed the impressions
of the summer, instead of dissipating them, and that if Burt became her suitor he would be
accepted.

When she looked out on the morning of the excursion to Fort Putnam it was so radiant with light
and beauty that hope sprang up within her heart. Disappointment that might last through life
could not come on a day like this. Silvery mists ascended from the river down among the Highlands.
The lawn and many of the fields were as green as they had been in June, and on every side were
trees like immense bouquets, so rich and varied was their coloring. There was a dewy freshness
in the air, a genial warmth in the sunshine, a spring-like blue in the sky; and in these was
no suggestion that the November of her life was near. "And yet it may be," she thought. "I
must soon face my fate, and I must be true to Amy."

Mrs. Hargrove regarded with discontent the prospect of another long mountain expedition; but
Fred, her idol, was wild for it, and in a day or two he must return to school in the city,
from which, at his earnest plea, he had been absent too long already; so she smiled her farewell
at last upon the fateful excursion.

He, with his sister, was soon at the Cliffords', and found the rockaway--the strong old carryall
with which Gertrude already had tender associations--in readiness. Maggie had agreed to chaperon
the party, little Ned having been easily bribed to remain with his father.

Miss Hargrove had looked wistfully at the Clifford mansion as she drew near to it. Never had
it appeared to her more home-like, with its embowering trees and laden orchards. The bright
hues of the foliage suggested the hopes that centred there: the ocean, as she had seen it--cold
and gray under a clouded sky--was emblematic of life with no fulfilment of those hopes. And
when Mr. Clifford met her at the door, and took her in to see the invalid, who greeted her
almost as affectionately as she would have welcomed Amy after absence, Miss Hargrove knew in
the depths of her heart how easily she could be at home there.

Never did a pleasure-party start under brighter auspices. Even Mrs. Clifford came out, on her
husband's arm, to wave them a farewell.

The young men had their alpenstocks, for it was their intention to walk up the steep places.
Webb was about to take Alf and Johnnie on the front seat with him, when Amy exclaimed: "I'm
going to drive, Mr. Webb. Johnnie can sit between us, and keep me company when you are walking.
You needn't think that because you are the brilliant author of this expedition you are going
to have everything your own way."

Indeed, not a little guile lurked behind her laughing eyes, which ever kept Webb in perplexity--though
he looked into them so often--as to whether they were blue or gray. Miss Hargrove demurely
took her seat with Maggie, and Burt had the two boys with him. Fred had brought his gun, and
was vigilant for game now that the "law was up."

They soon reached the foot of the mountain, and there was a general unloading, for at first
every one wished to walk. Maggie good-naturedly climbed around to the front seat and took the
reins, remarking that she would soon have plenty of company again.

Burt had not recognized Amy's tactics, nor did he at once second them, even unconsciously.
His long ruminations had led to the only possible conclusion--the words he had spoken must
be made good. Pride and honor permitted no other course. Therefore he proposed to-day to be
ubiquitous, and as gallant to Maggie as to the younger ladies. When Miss Hargrove returned
to the city he would quietly prove his loyalty. Never before had he appeared in such spirits;
never so inexorably resolute. He recalled Amy's incredulous laugh at his protestation of constancy,
and felt that he could never look her in the face if he faltered. It was known that Miss Hargrove
had received much attention, and her interest in him would be likely to disappear at once should
she learn of his declaration of undying devotion to another but a few months before. He anathematized
himself, but determined that his weakness should remain unknown. It was evident that Amy had
been a little jealous, but probably that she did not yet care enough for him to be very sensitive
on the subject. This made no difference, however. He had pledged himself to wait until she
did care. Therefore he sedulously maintained his mask. Miss Hargrove should be made to believe
that she had added much to the pleasure of the excursion, and there he would stop. And Burt
on his mettle was no bungler. The test would come in his staying powers.

Webb, however, was quietly serene. He had not watched and thought so long in vain. He had seen
Burt's expression the evening before, and knew that a wakeful night had followed. His own feeling
had taught him a clairvoyance which enabled him to divine not a little of what was passing
in his brother's mind and that of Miss Hargrove. Amy troubled him more than they. Her frank,
sisterly affection was not love, and might never become love.

One of the objects of the expedition was to obtain an abundant supply of autumn leaves and
ferns for pressing. "I intend to make the old house look like a bower this winter," Amy remarked.

"That would be impossible with our city home," Miss Hargrove said, "and mamma would not hear
of such an attempt. But I can do as I please in my own room, and shall gather my country souvenirs
to-day."

The idea of decorating her apartment with feathery ferns and bright-hued leaves took a strong
hold upon her fancy, for she hoped that Burt would aid her in making the collection. Nor was
she disappointed, for Amy said:

"Burt, I have gathered and pressed nearly all the ferns I need already. You know the shady
nooks where the most delicate ones grow, and you can help Gertrude make as good a collection
as mine. You'll help too, won't you, Webb?" added the innocent little schemer, who saw that
Burt was looking at her rather keenly.

So they wound up the mountain, making long stops here and there to gather sylvan trophies and
to note the fine views. Amy's manner was so cordial and natural that Burt's suspicions had
been allayed, and the young fellow, who could do nothing by halves, was soon deeply absorbed
in making a superb collection for Miss Hargrove, and she felt that, whatever happened, she
was being enriched by everything he obtained for her. Amy had brought a great many newspapers
folded together so that leaves could be placed between the pages, and Webb soon noted that
his offerings were kept separate from those of Burt. The latter tried to be impartial in his
labors in behalf of the two girls, bringing Amy bright-hued leaves instead of ferns, but did
not wholly succeed, and sometimes he found himself alone with Miss Hargrove as they pursued
their search a short distance on some diverging and shaded path. On one of these occasions
he said, "I like to think how beautiful you will make your room this winter."

"I like to think of it too," she replied. "I shall feel that I have a part of my pleasant summer
always present."

"Has it been a pleasant summer?"

"Yes, the pleasantest I ever enjoyed."

"I should think you would find it exceedingly dull after such brilliant experiences as that
of your yachting excursion."

"Do you find to-day exceedingly dull?"

"But I am used to the quiet country, and a day like this is the exception."

"I do not imagine you have ever lived a tame life."

"Isn't that about the same as calling me wild?"

"There's no harm in beginning a little in that way. Time sobers one fast enough."

"You are so favored that I can scarcely imagine life bringing sobering experiences to you very
soon."

"Indeed? Have you forgotten what occurred on these very mountains, at no great distance? I
assure you I never forget it;" and her eyes were eloquent as she turned them upon him.

"One does not forget the most fortunate event of one's life. Since you were to meet that danger,
I would not have missed being near for the world. I had even a narrower escape, as you know,
on this mountain. The spot where Webb found me is scarcely more than a mile away."

She looked at him very wistfully, and her face grew pale, but she only said, "I don't think
either of us can forget the Highlands."

"I shall never forget that little path," he said, in a low tone, and he looked back at it lingeringly
as they came out into the road and approached the rest of the party.

"Have you lost anything, Burt?" cried Amy, laughing.

"No, but I've found something. See this superb bunch of maiden hair. That spot should be marked
for future supplies. Miss Hargrove will share with you, for you can't have anything so fine
as this."

"Yes, indeed I have, and I shall call you and Webb to account if you do not to-day make Gertrude
fare as well."

Both Miss Hargrove and Burt were bewildered. There was lurking mischief in Amy's eyes when
she first spoke, and yet she used her influence to keep Burt in her friend's society. Her spirits
seemed too exuberant to be natural, and Miss Hargrove, who was an adept at hiding her feelings
under a mask of gayety, surmised that Amy's feminine instincts had taught her to employ the
same tactics. Conscious of their secret, Miss Hargrove and Burt both thought, "Perhaps it is
her purpose to throw us together as far as possible, and learn the truth."

Amy had a kinder purpose than they imagined. She wanted no more of Burt's forced allegiance,
and was much too good-natured to permit mere pique to cause unhappiness to others. "Let Gertrude
win him if she cares for him," was her thought, "and if she can't hold him his case is hopeless."
She could not resist the temptation, however, to tease Burt a little.

But he gave her slight chance for the next few hours. Her mirthful question and the glance
accompanying it had put him on his guard again, and he at once became the gay cavalier-general
he had resolved on being throughout the day.

They made a long pause to enjoy the view looking out upon Constitution Island, West Point,
the southern mountains, and the winding river, dotted here and there with sails, and with steamers,
seemingly held motionless by their widely separated train of canal boats.

"What mountain is this that we are now to descend?" Miss Hargrove asked.

"Cro' Nest," Burt replied. "It's the first high mountain that abuts on the river above West
Point, you will remember."

"Oh, yes, I remember.

After a round of applause had subsided, Burt, whose eyes had been more demonstrative than his
hands, said, "That's by Morris. We can see from Fort Putnam his old home under Mount Taurus."

"I know. He is the poet who entreated the woodman to 'spare that tree.'"

"Which the woodman will never do," Webb remarked, "unless compelled by law; nor even then, I fear."

"Oh, Webb!" cried Amy, "with what a thump you drop into prose!"

"I also advise an immediate descent of the mountain if we are to have any time at Fort Putnam,"
he added. "I'll walk on."

They were soon winding down the S's by which the road overcame the steep declivity. On reaching
a plateau, before the final descent, they came across a wretched hovel, gray and storm-beaten,
with scarcely strength to stand. Rags took the place of broken glass in the windows. A pig
was rooting near the doorstep, on which stood a slatternly woman, regarding the party with
dull curiosity.

"Talk about the elevating influence of mountain scenery," said Miss Hargrove; "there's a commentary
on the theory."

"The theory's correct," persisted Burt. "Their height above tide-water and the amount of bad
whiskey they consume keep our mountaineers elevated most of the time."

"Does Lumley live in a place like that?" Miss Hargrove asked.

"He did--in a worse one, if possible," Webb replied for Amy, who hesitated. "But you should
see how it is changed. He now has a good vegetable garden fenced in, a rustic porch covered
with American ivy, and--would you believe it?--an actual flower-bed. Within the hut there are
two pictures on the wall, and the baby creeps on a carpeted floor. Lumley says Amy is making
a man of him."

"You forget to mention how much you have helped me," Amy added.

"Come, let us break up this mutual admiration society," said Burt. "I'm ready for lunch already,
and Fort Putnam is miles away."

The road from the foot of the mountain descends gradually through wild, beautiful scenery to
West Point. Cro' Nest rises abruptly on the left, and there is a wooded valley on the right,
with mountains beyond. The trees overhung the road with a canopy of gold, emerald, and crimson
foliage, and the sunlight came to the excursionists as through stained-glass windows. Taking
a side street at the back of the military post, they soon reached a point over which frowned
the ruins of the fort, and here they left their horses. After a brief climb to the northward
they entered on an old road, grass-grown and leaf-carpeted, and soon passed through the gaping
sally-port, on either side of which cone-like cedars stood as sentinels. Within the fort Nature
had been busy for a century softening and obliterating the work of man. Cedar trees--some of
which were dying from age--grew everywhere, even on the crumbling ramparts. Except where ledges
of the native rock cropped out, the ground was covered with a thick sward. Near the centre
of the inclosure is the rocky basin. In it bubbles the spring at which the more temperate of
the ancient garrison may have softened the asperities of their New England rum.

The most extensive ruins are seen by turning sharply to the left from the sally-port. Here,
yawning like caverns, their entrances partially choked by the debris, are six casemates, or
vaults. They were built of brick, covered with stone, and are eighteen feet deep and twelve
wide, with an arched roof twelve feet high. On the level rampart above them were long, withered
grass, the wild dwarf-rose, and waving golden-rod. The outer walls, massy and crumbling, or
half torn away by vandal hands, were built in angles, according to the engineering science
of the Revolution, except on the west, where the high ramparts surmount a mural perpendicular
precipice fifty feet in height. Inland, across the valley, the mountains were seen, rising
like rounded billows in every direction, while from the north, east, and south the windings
of the Hudson were visible for fifteen miles.

All but Amy had visited the spot before, and Burt explored the place with her while the rest
prepared for lunch. She had asked Gertrude to accompany them, but the latter had sought refuge
with Maggie, and at her side she proposed to remain. She scarcely dared trust herself with
Burt, and as the day advanced he certainly permitted his eyes to express an interest that promised
ill for his inexorable purpose of constancy.

It had become clear to Miss Hargrove that he was restrained by something that had occurred
between him and Amy, and both her pride and her sense of truth to her friend decided her to
withdraw as far as possible from his society, and to return to the city.

She and Burt vied with each other in gayety at lunch. When it was over they all grouped themselves
in the shade of a clump of cedars, and looked away upon the wide prospect, Webb pointing out
objects of past and present interest. Alf and Fred speedily grew restless and started off with
the gun, Johnnie's head sank into her mother's lap, Miss Hargrove and Burt grew quiet and preoccupied,
their eyes looking off into vacancy. Webb was saying, "By one who had imagination how much
more could be seen from this point than meets the eye! There, on the plain below us, would
rise the magnificent rustic colonnade two hundred and twenty feet long and eighty feet wide,
beneath which Washington gave the great banquet in honor of the birth of the Dauphin of France,
and on the evening of the same day these hills blazed with musketry and rolled back the thunder
of cannon with which the festivities of the evening were begun. Think of the 'Father of his
Country' being there in flesh and blood, just as we are here! In the language of an old military
journal, 'He carried down a dance of twenty couple on the green grass, with a graceful and
dignified air, having Mrs. Knox for his partner.' In almost a direct line across the river
you can see the Beverly Robinson house, from which Arnold carried on his correspondence with
Andre. You can look into the window of the room to which, after hearing of the capture of Andre,
he hastened from the breakfast-table. To this upper room he immediately summoned his wife,
who had been the beautiful Margaret Shippen, you remember, and told her of his awful peril,
then rushed away, leaving the poor, terror-stricken woman unconscious on the floor. Would you
not like to look through the glass at the house where the tragedy occurred, Miss Hargrove?"

At the sound of her name the young girl started visibly, and Webb saw that there were tears
in her eyes; but she complied without a word, and he so directed the glass that it covered
the historic mansion.

"How full of sensibility she is!" thought innocent Webb, taking her quickly suppressed emotion
as a tribute to his moving reminiscences.

"Oh, Webb, have done with your lugubrious ancient history!" cried Burt, springing up.

"It's time we were getting ready for a homeward move," said Maggie. "I'll go and pack the things."

"And I'll help you," added Miss Hargrove, hastily following her.

"Let me look at the house, too," said Amy, taking the glass; then added, after a moment: "Poor
Margaret Arnold! It was indeed a tragedy, as you said, Webb--a sadder one than these old military
preparations can suggest. In all his career of war and treachery Arnold never inflicted a more
cruel wound."

"How much feeling Miss Hargrove showed!" Webb remarked, musingly.

"Yes," said Amy, quietly, "she was evidently feeling deeply." Her thought was, "I don't believe
she heard a word that Webb said." Then, seeing that Burt was helping Maggie and Miss Hargrove,
she added, "Please point out to me some other interesting places."

Webb, well pleased, talked on to a listener who did not give him her whole attention. She could
not forget Gertrude's paleness, and her alternations from extreme gayety to a look of such
deep sadness as to awaken not a little sympathetic curiosity. Amy loved her friend truly, and
it did not seem strange to her that Miss Hargrove was deeply interested in Burt, since they
had been much thrown together, and since she probably owed her life to him. Amy's resentment
toward Burt had passed away. She had found that her pride, merely, and not her heart, was wounded
by his new passion, and she already began to feel that she never could have any such regard
for him as her friend was possibly cherishing. Therefore it was, perhaps, not unnatural that
her tranquil regard should prove unsatisfying to Burt in contrast with the passion of which
Miss Hargrove was capable. She had seen his vain efforts to remain loyal, and had smiled at
them, proposing to let matters take their course, and to give little aid in extricating him
from his dilemma. But, if she had interpreted her friend's face aright, she could no longer
stand aloof, an amused and slightly satirical spectator. If Burt deserved some punishment,
Gertrude did not, and she was inclined to guess the cause of the latter's haste to return to
the city.

It may thus be seen that Amy was fast losing her unsophisticated girlhood. While Burt's passionate
words had awakened no corresponding feeling, they had taught her that she was no longer a child,
since she could inspire such words. Her intimacy with Miss Hargrove, and the latter's early
confidences, had enlarged her ideas on some subjects. As the bud of a flower passes slowly
through long and apparently slow stages of immaturity and at last suddenly opens to the light,
so she had reached that age when a little experience suggests a great deal, and the influences
around her tended to develop certain thoughts very rapidly. She saw that her friend had not
been brought up in English seclusion. Admirers by the score had flocked around her, and, as
she had often said, she proposed to marry for love. "I have the name of being cold," she once
told Amy, "but I know I can love as can few others, and I shall know it well when I do love,
too." The truth was daily growing clearer to Amy that under our vivid American skies the grand
passion is not a fiction of romance or a quiet arrangement between the parties concerned.

Miss Hargrove had not misjudged herself. Her tropical nature, when once kindled, burned with
no feeble, wavering flame. She had passed the point of criticism of Burt. She loved him, and
to her fond eyes he seemed more worthy of her love than any man she had ever before known.
But she had not passed beyond her sense of truth and duty, and the feeling came to her that
she must go away at once and engage in that most pathetic of all struggles that fall to woman's
lot. As the conviction grew clear on this bright October day, she felt that her heart was bleeding
internally. Tears would come into her eyes at the dreary prospect. Her former brilliant society
life now looked as does an opera-house in the morning, when the gilding and tinsel that flashed
and sparkled the evening before are seen to be dull and tarnished. Burt had appeared to especial
advantage in his mountain home. He excelled in all manly sports. His tall, fine figure and
unconscious, easy manner were as full of grace as deficient in conventionality, and she thought
with disgust of many of her former admirers, who were nothing if not stylish after the arbitrary
mode of the hour. At the same time he had proved that he could be at home in a drawing-room
on the simple ground of good-breeding, and not because he had been run through fashion's latest
mold. The grand scenery around her suggested the manhood that kindled her imagination--a manhood
strong, fearless, and not degenerated from that sturdy age which had made these scenes historic.

By the time they were ready to start homeward the southern side of Cro' Nest was in deep blue
shadow. They bowled along rapidly till they came to the steep ascent, and then the boys and
the young men sprang out. "Would you like to walk, Gertrude?" Amy asked, for she was bent on
throwing her friend and Burt together during the witching twilight that was coming on apace.

"I fear I am too tired, unless the load is heavy," she replied.

"Oh, no, indeed," said Webb. "It does not take long to reach the top of the mountain on this
side, and then it's chiefly down hill the rest of the way."

Amy, who had been sitting with Webb and Johnnie as before, said to Miss Hargrove, "Won't you
step across the seats and keep me company?"

She complied, but not willingly. She was so utterly unhappy that she wished to be left to herself
as far as possible. In her realization of a loss that seemed immeasurable, she was a little
resentful toward Amy, feeling that she had been more frank and confidential than her friend.
If Amy had claims on Burt, why had she not spoken of them? why had she permitted her for whom
she professed such strong friendship to drift almost wholly unwarned upon so sad a fate? and
why was she now clearly trying to bring together Burt and the one to whom even he felt that
he had no right to speak in more than a friendly manner? While she was making such immense
sacrifices to be true, she felt that Amy was maintaining an unfair reticence, if not actually
beguiling herself and Burt into a display of weakness for which they would be condemned--or,
at least, he would be, and love identifies itself with its object. These thoughts, having once
been admitted, grew upon her mind rapidly, for it is hard to suffer through another and maintain
a gentle charity. Therefore she was silent when she took her seat by Amy, and when the latter
gave her a look that was like a caress, she did not return it.

"You are tired, Gertrude," Amy began gently. "Indeed, you look ill. You must stay with me to-night,
and I'll watch over you like Sairy Gamp."

So far from responding to Amy's playful and friendly words, Miss Hargrove said, hastily,

"Oh, no, I had better go right on home. I don't feel very well, and shall be better at home;
and I must begin to get ready to-morrow for my return to the city."

Amy would not be repulsed, but, putting her arm around her friend, she looked into her eyes,
and asked:

"Why are you so eager to return to New York? Are you tiring of your country friends? You certainly
told me that you expected to stay till November."

"Fred must go back to school to-morrow," said Gertrude, in a constrained voice, "and I do not
think it is well to leave him alone in the city house."

"You are withdrawing your confidence from me," said Amy, sadly.

"Have you ever truly given me yours?" was the low, impetuous response. "No. If you had, I should
not be the unhappy girl I am-to-night. Well, since you wish to know the whole truth you shall.
You said you could trust me implicitly, and I promised to deserve your trust. If you had said
to me that Burt was bound to you when I told you that I was heart-whole and fancy-free, I should
have been on my guard. Is it natural that I should be indifferent to the man who risked his
life to save mine? Why have you left me so long in his society without a hint of warning? But
I shall keep my word. I shall not try to snatch happiness from another."

Johnnie's tuneful little voice was piping a song, and the rumble of the wheels over a stony
road prevented Maggie, on the last seat, from hearing anything.

The clasp of Amy's arm tightened. "Now you shall stay with me to-night," she said. "I cannot
explain here and now. See, Burt has turned, and is coming toward us. I pledge you my word he
can never be to me more than a brother. I do not love him except as a brother, and never have,
and you can snatch no happiness from me, except by treating me with distrust and going away."

"Oh, Amy," began Miss Hargrove, in tones and with a look that gave evidence of the chaotic
bewilderment of her mind.

"Hush! We are not very lonely, thank you, Mr. Burt. You look, as far as I can see you through
the dusk, as if you were commiserating us as poor forlorn creatures, but we have some resources
within ourselves."

"The dusk is, indeed, misleading. We are the forlorn creatures who have no resources. Won't
you please take us in?"

"Take you in! What do you take us for? I assure you we are very simple, honest people."

"In that case I shall have no fears, but clamber in at once. I feel as if I had been on a twenty-mile
tramp."

"What an implied compliment to our exhilarating society!"

"Indeed there is--a very strong one. I've been so immensely exhilarated that, in the re-action,
I'm almost faint."

"Maggie," cried Amy, "do take care of Burt; he's going to faint."

"He must wait till we come to the next brook, and then we'll put him in it."

"Webb," said Amy, looking over her shoulder at the young man, who was now following the carriage,
"is there anything the matter with you, also?"

"Nothing more than usual."

"Oh, your trouble, whatever it may be, is chronic. Well, well, to think that we poor women
may be the only survivors of this tremendous expedition."

"That would be most natural--the survival of the fittest, you know."

"I don't think your case serious. Science is uppermost in your mind, as ever. You ought to
live a thousand years, Webb, to see the end of all your theories."

"I fear it wouldn't be the millennium for me, and that I should have more perplexing theories
at its end than now."

"That's the way with men--they are never satisfied," remarked Miss Hargrove. "Mr. Clifford,
this is your expedition, and it's getting so dark that I shall feel safer if you are driving."

"Oh, Gertrude, you have no confidence in me whatever. As if I would break your neck--or heart
either!" Amy whispered in her friend's ear.

"You are a very mysterious little woman," was the reply, given in like manner, "and need hours
of explanation." Then, to Webb: "Mr. Clifford, I've much more confidence in you than in Amy.
Her talk is so giddy that I want a sober hand on the reins."

"To which Mr. Clifford do you refer?" asked Burt.

"Oh, are you reviving? I thought you had become unconscious."

"I'm not wholly past feeling."

"I want one to drive who can see his way, not feel it," was the laughing response.

Amy, too, was laughing silently, as she reined in the horses. "What are you two girls giggling
about?" said Burt, becoming a little uncomfortable. "The idea of two such refined creatures
giggling!"

"Well," exclaimed Webb, "what am I to do? I can't stand up between you and drive."

"Gertrude, you must clamber around and sustain Burt's drooping spirits."

"Indeed, Amy, you must know best how to do that," was the reply. "As guest, I claim a little
of the society of the commander-in-chief. You had it coming over."

"I'll solve the vexed question," said Burt, much nettled, and leaping out.

"Now, Burt, the question isn't vexed, and don't you be," cried Amy, springing lightly over
to the next seat. "There are Fred and Alf, too, with the gun. Let us all get home as soon as
possible, for it's nearly time for supper already. Come, I shall feel much hurt if you don't
keep me company."

Burt at once realized the absurdity of showing pique, although he felt that there was something
in the air which he did not understand. He came back laughing, with much apparent good-nature,
and saying, "I thought I'd soon bring one or the other of you to terms."

"Oh, what a diplomat you are!" said Amy, with difficulty restraining a new burst of merriment.

They soon reached the summit, and paused to give the horses a breathing. The young moon hung
in the west, and its silver crescent symbolized to Miss Hargrove the hope that was growing
in her heart. "Amy," she said, "don't you remember the song we arranged from 'The Culprit Fay'?
We certainly should sing it here on this mountain. You take the solo."

"Imagine the cone and wave, please," said Miss Hargrove; and then, in an alto rich with her
heart's deep feeling, she sang with Amy:

  "'Ouphe and goblin! imp and sprite!
    Elf of eve! and starry fay!
    Ye that love the moon's soft light,
    Hither--hither wend your way;
    Twine ye in a jocund ring;
    Sing and trip it merrily,
    Hand to hand and wing to wing,
    Round the wild witch-hazel tree.'"

"If I were a goblin, I'd come, for music like that," cried Burt, as they started rapidly homeward.

"You are much too big to suggest a culprit fay," said Amy.

"But the description of the fay's charmer is your portrait," he replied, in a low tone:

  "'But well I know her sinless mind
    Is pure as the angel forms above,
    Gentle and meek, and chaste and kind,
    Such as a spirit well might love.'"

"Oh, no; you are mistaken, I'm not meek in the least. Think of the punishment:

  "'Tied to the hornet's shardy wings,
    Toss'd on the pricks of nettles' stings;'

you know the rest."

"What witchery has got into you to-night, Amy?"

"Do you think I'm a witch? Beware, then. Witches can read men's thoughts."

"That last song was so good that I, for one, would be glad of more," cried Webb.

"You men must help us, then," said Miss Hargrove, and in a moment the wild, dim forest was
full of melody, the rocks and highlands sending back soft and unheeded echoes.

Burt, meantime, was occupied with disagreeable reflections. Perhaps both the girls at last
understood him, and had been comparing notes, to his infinite disadvantage. His fickleness
and the dilemma he was in may have become a jest between them. What could he do? Resentment,
except against himself, was impossible. If Amy understood him, in what other way could she
meet any approach to sentiment on his part than by a laughing scorn? If Miss Hargrove had divined
the past, or had received a hint concerning it, why should she not shun his society? He was
half-desperate, and yet felt that any show of embarrassment or anger would only make him appear
more ridiculous. The longer he thought the more sure he was that the girls were beginning to
guess his position, and that his only course was a polite indifference to both. But this policy
promised to lead through a thorny path, and to what? In impotent rage at himself he ground
his teeth during the pauses between the stanzas that he was compelled to sing. Such was the
discord in his heart that he felt like uttering notes that would make "night hideous."

He was still more distraught when, on their return, they found Mr. Hargrove's carriage in waiting,
and Amy, after a brief conference with her friend in her room, came down prepared to accompany
Miss Hargrove home after supper. In spite of all his efforts at ease and gayety, his embarrassment
and trouble were evident. He had observed Miss Hargrove's pallor and her effort to keep up
at Fort Putnam, and could not banish the hope that she sympathized with him; but now the young
girl was demurely radiant. Her color had come again, and the lustre of her beautiful eyes was
dazzling. Yet they avoided his, and she had far more to say to Webb and the others than to
him. Webb, too, was perplexed, for during the day Amy had been as bewildering to him as to
Burt. But he was in no uncertainty as to his course, which was simply to wait. He, with Burt,
saw the girls to the carriage, and the latter said good-night rather coldly and stiffly. Alf
and Fred parted regretfully, with the promise of a correspondence which would be as remarkable
for its orthography as for its natural history.

CHAPTER LII

BURT'S SORE DILEMMA

Mr. Hargrove greeted Amy cordially, but his questioning eyes rested oftenest on his daughter.
Her expression and manner caused him to pace his study long and late that night. Mrs. Hargrove
was very polite and a little stately. She felt that she existed on a plane above Amy.

The young girls soon pleaded fatigue, and retired. Once in the seclusion of their room they
forgot all about their innocent fib, and there was not a trace of weariness in their manner.
While Burt was staring at his dismal, tangled fortune, seeing no solution of his difficulties,
a fateful conference relating to him was taking place. Amy did not look like a scorner, as
with a sister's love and a woman's tact she pleaded his cause and palliated his course to one
incapable of harsh judgment. But she felt that she must be honest with her friend, and that
the whole truth would be best and safest. Her conclusion was: "No man who loved you, and whom
you encouraged, would ever change. I know now that I never had a particle of such feeling as
you have for Burt, and can see that I naturally chilled and quenched his regard for me."

Miss Hargrove's dark eyes flashed ominously as she spoke of Burt or of any man proving faithless
after she had given encouragement.

"But it wasn't possible for me to give him any real encouragement," Amy persisted. "I've never
felt as you do, and am not sure that I want to for a long time."

"How about Webb?" Miss Hargrove almost said, but she suppressed the words, feeling that since
he had not revealed his secret she had no right to do so. Indeed, as she recalled how sedulously
he had guarded it she was sure he would not thank her for suggesting it to Amy before she was
ready for the knowledge. Impetuous as Miss Hargrove was at times, she had too fine a nature
to be careless of the rights and feelings of others. Moreover, she felt that Webb had been
her ally, whether consciously or not, and he should have his chance with all the help she could
give him, but she was wise enough to know that obtrusion and premature aid are often disastrous.

The decision, after this portentous conference, was: "Mr. Bart must seek me, and seek very
zealously. I know you well enough Amy, to be sure that you will give him no hints. It's bad
enough to love a man before I've been asked to do so. What an utterly perverse and unmanageable
thing one's heart is! I shall do no angling, however, nor shall I permit any."

"You may stand up straight, Gertrude," said Amy, laughing, "but don't lean over backward."

Burt entertained half a dozen wild and half-tragic projects before he fell asleep late that
night, but finally, in utter self-disgust, settled down on the prosaic and not irrational one
of helping through with the fall work on the farm, and then of seeking some business or profession
to which he could give his whole mind. "As to ladies' society," he concluded, savagely, "I'll
shun it hereafter till I'm grown up."

Burt always attained a certain kind of peace and the power to sleep after he had reached an
irrevocable decision.

During the night the wind veered to the east, and a cold, dismal rain-storm set in. Dull and
dreary indeed the day proved to Burt. He could not go out and put his resolution into force.
He fumed about the house, restless, yet reticent. He would rather have fought dragons than
keep company with his own thoughts in inaction. All the family supposed he missed Amy, except
Webb, who hoped he missed some one else.

"Why don't you go over and bring Amy home, Burt?" his mother asked, at the dinner-table. "The
house seems empty without her, and everybody is moping. Even father has fretted over his newspaper,
and wished Amy was here."

"Why can't they print an edition of the paper for old men and dark days?" said the old gentleman,
discontentedly.

"Well," remarked Leonard, leaning back in his chair, and looking humorously at Maggie, "I'm
sorry for you young fellows, but I'm finding the day serene."

"Of course you are," snapped Burt. "With an armchair to doze in and a dinner to look forward
to, what more do you wish? As for Webb, he can always get astride of some scientific hobby,
no matter how bad the weather is."

"As for Burt, he can bring Amy home, and then every one will be satisfied," added his mother,
smiling.

Thus a new phase of his trial presented itself to poor Burt. He must either face those two
girls after their night's conclave, with all its possible revelations, or else awaken at once
very embarrassing surmises. Why shouldn't he go for Amy? all would ask. "Well, why shouldn't
I?" he thought. "I may as well face it out." And in a mood of mingled recklessness and fear
he drove through the storm. When his name was announced the girls smiled significantly, but
went down looking as unconscious as if they had not spoken of him in six months, and Burt could
not have been more suave, non-committal, and impartially polite if these ladies had been as
remote from his thoughts as one of Webb's theories. At the same time he intimated that he would
be ready to return when Amy was.

At parting the friends gave each other a little look of dismay, and he caught it from the same
telltale mirror that persisted in taking a part in this drama.

"Aha!" though the young fellow, "so they have been exchanging confidences, and my manner is
disconcerting--not what was expected. If I have become a jest between them it shall be a short-lived
one. Miss Hargrove, with all her city experience, shall find that I'm not so young and verdant
but that I can take a hand in this game also. As for Amy, I now know she never cared for me,
and I don't believe she ever would;" and so he went away with laughing repartee, and did not
see the look of deep disappointment with which he was followed.

Amy was perplexed and troubled. Her innocent schemes might not be so easily accomplished if
Burt would be wrong-headed. She was aware of the dash of recklessness in his character, and
feared that under the impulse of pride he might spoil everything, or, at least, cause much
needless delay.

With the fatality of blundering which usually attends upon such occasions, he did threaten
to fulfil her fears, and so successfully that Amy was in anxiety, and Miss Hargrove grew as
pale as she was resolute not to make the least advance, while poor Webb felt that his suspense
never would end. Burt treated Amy in an easy, fraternal manner. He engaged actively in the
task of gathering and preparing for market the large crop of apples, and he openly broached
the subject of going into a business of some kind away from home, where, he declared, with
a special meaning for Amy, he was not needed, adding: "It's time I was earning my salt and
settling down to something for life. Webb and Len can take care of all the land, and I don't
believe I was cut out for a farmer."

He not only troubled Amy exceedingly, but he perplexed all the family, for it seemed that he
was decidedly taking a new departure. One evening, a day or two after he had introduced the
project of going elsewhere, his father, to Amy's dismay, suggested that he should go to the
far West and look after a large tract of land which the old gentleman had bought some years
before. It was said that a railroad was to be built through it, and, if so, the value of the
property would be greatly enhanced, and steps should be taken to get part of it into the market.
Burt took hold of the scheme with eagerness, and was for going as soon as possible. Looking
to note the effect of his words upon Amy, he saw that her expression was not only reproachful,
but almost severe. Leonard heartily approved of the plan. Webb was silent, and in deep despondency,
feeling that if Bart went now nothing would be settled. He saw Amy's aversion to the project
also, and misinterpreted it.

She was compelled to admit that the prospects were growing very dark. Burt might soon depart
for an indefinite absence, and Miss Hargrove return to the city. Amy, who had looked upon the
mutations in her own prospects so quietly, was almost feverishly eager to aid her friend. She
feared she had blundered on the mountain ride. Burt's pride had been wounded, and he had received
the impression that his April-like moods had been discussed satirically. It was certain that
he had been very deeply interested in Gertrude, and that he was throwing away not only his
happiness, but also hers; and Amy felt herself in some degree to blame. Therefore she was bent
upon ending the senseless misunderstanding, but found insurmountable embarrassments on every
side. Miss Hargrove was prouder than Burt. Wild horses could not draw her to the Cliffords',
With a pale, resolute face, she declined even to put herself in the way of receiving the least
advance. Amy would gladly have taken counsel of Webb, but could not do so without revealing
her friend's secret, and also disclosing mere surmises about Burt, which, although amounting
to conviction in her mind, could not be mentioned. Therefore, from the very delicacy of the
situation, she felt herself helpless. Nature was her ally, however, and if all that was passing
in Burt's mind had been manifest, the ardent little schemer would not have been so despondent.

The best hope of Burt had been that he had checkmated the girls in their disposition to make
jesting comparisons, He would retire with so much nonchalance as to leave nothing to be said.
They would find complete inaction and silence hard to combat. But the more he thought of it
the less it seemed like an honorable retreat. He had openly wooed one girl, he had since lost
his heart to another, and she had given him a glimpse of strong regard, if not more. His thoughts
were busy with her every word and glance. How much had his tones and eyes revealed to her?
Might she not think him a heartless flirt if he continued to avoid her and went away without
a word? Would it not be better to be laughed at as one who did not know his own mind than be
despised for deliberate trifling? Amy had asked him to go and spend an evening with her friend,
and he had pleaded weariness as an excuse. Her incredulous look and rather cool manner since
had not been reassuring. She had that very morning broached the subject of a chestnutting party
for the following day, and he had promptly said that he was going to the city to make inquiries
about routes to the West.

"Why, Burt, you can put off your trip to town for a day," said his mother. "If you are to leave
us so soon you should make the most of the days that are left."

"That is just what he is doing," Amy remarked, satirically. "He has become absorbed in large
business considerations. Those of us who have not such resources are of no consequence."

The old people and Leonard believed that Amy was not pleased with the idea of Burt's going
away, but they felt that she was a little unreasonable, since the young fellow was rather to
be commended for wishing to take life more seriously. But her words rankled in Burt's mind.
He felt that she understood him better than the others, and that he was not winning respect
from her. In the afternoon he saw her, with Alf and Johnnie, starting for the chestnut-trees,
and although she passed not far away she gave him only a slight greeting, and did not stop
for a little merry banter, as usual. The young fellow was becoming very unhappy, and he felt
that his position was growing intolerable. That Amy should be cold toward him, or, indeed,
toward any one, was an unheard-of thing, and he knew that she must feel that there was good
reason for her manner. "And is there not?" he asked himself, bitterly. "What are she and Miss
Hargrove thinking about me?"

The more he thought upon the past the more awkward and serious appeared his dilemma, and his
long Western journey, which at first he had welcomed as promising a diversion of excitement
and change, now began to appear like exile. He dreaded to think of the memories he must take
with him; still more he deprecated the thoughts he would leave behind him. His plight made
him so desperate that he suddenly left the orchard where he was gathering apples, went to the
house, put on his riding-suit, and in a few moments was galloping furiously away on his black
horse. With a renewal of hope Webb watched his proceedings, and with many surmises, Amy, from
a distant hillside, saw him passing at a break-neck pace.

CHAPTER LIII

BURT'S RESOLVE

For the first two or three miles Burt rode as if he were trying to leave care behind him, scarcely
heeding what direction he took. When at last he reined his reeking horse he found himself near
the entrance of the lane over which willows met in a Gothic arch. He yielded to the impulse
to visit the spot which had seen the beginning of so fateful an acquaintance, and had not gone
far when a turn in the road revealed a group whose presence almost made his heart stand still
for a moment. Miss Hargrove had stopped her horse on the very spot where he had aided her in
her awkward predicament. Her back was toward him, and her great dog was at her side, looking
up into her face, as if in mute sympathy with his fair mistress.

Hope sprang up in Burt's heart. She could not be there with bowed head if she despised him.
Her presence seemed in harmony with that glance by which, when weak and unnerved after escaping
from deadly peril, she had revealed possibly more than gratitude to the one who had rescued
her. His love rose like an irresistible tide, and he resolved that before he left his home
Amy and Miss Hargrove should know the whole truth, whatever might be the result. Meanwhile
he was rapidly approaching the young girl, and the dog's short bark of recognition was her
first intimation of Hurt's presence. Her impulse was to fly, but in a second she saw the absurdity
of this course, and yet she was greatly embarrassed, and would rather have been discovered
by him at almost any other point of the globe. She was going to the city on the morrow, and
as she had drawn rein on this spot and realized the bitterness of her disappointment, tears
would come. She wiped them hastily away, but dreaded lest their traces should be seen.

Turning her horse, she met Burt with a smile that her moist eyes belied, and said: "I'm glad
you do not find me in such an awkward plight as when we first met here. I've been giving my
horse a rest. Do you not want a gallop?" and away like the wind she started homeward.

Burt easily kept at her side, but conversation was impossible. At last he said: "My horse is
very tired, Miss Hargrove. At this pace you will soon be home, and I shall feel that you are
seeking to escape from me. Have I fallen so very low in your estimation?"

"Why," she exclaimed, in well-feigned surprise, as she checked her horse, "what have you done
that you should fall in my estimation?"

"I shall tell you before very long," he said, with an expression that seemed almost tragic.

"Mr. Clifford, you surprise me. Your horse is all of a foam too. Surely this brief gallop cannot
have so tried your superb beast. What has happened? Amy is not ill, or any one?"

"Oh, no," he replied, with a grim laugh. "Everyone is well and complacent. I had been riding
rapidly before I met you. My horse has been idle for some days, and I had to run the spirit
out of him. Amy wishes to have a chestnutting party to-morrow. Won't you join us?"

"I'm sorry, Mr. Clifford, but I return to the city tomorrow afternoon, and was coming over
in the morning to say good-by to Amy and your father and mother."

"I am very sorry too," he said, in tones that gave emphasis to his words.

She turned upon him a swift, questioning glance, but her eyes instantly fell before his intense
gaze.

"Oh, well," she said, lightly, "we've had a very pleasant summer, and all things must come
to an end, you know." Then she went on speaking, in a matter-of-fact way, of the need of looking
after Fred, who was alone in town, and of getting the city house in order, and of her plans
for the winter, adding: "As there is a great deal of fruit on the place, papa does not feel
that he can leave just yet. You know he goes back and forth often, and so his business does
not suffer. But I can just as well go down now, and nearly all my friends have returned to town."

"All your friends, Miss Hargrove?"

"Amy has promised to visit me soon," she said, hastily.

"It would seem that I am not down on your list of friends," he began, gloomily.

"Why, Mr. Clifford, I'm sure papa and I would be glad to have you call whenever you are in town."

"I fear I shall have to disappoint Mr. Hargrove," he said, a little satirically. "I'm going
West the last of this month, and may be absent much of the winter. I expect to look about in
that section for some opening in business."

"Indeed," she replied, in tones which were meant to convey but little interest, yet which had
a slight tremor in spite of her efforts. "It will be a very great change for you."

"Perhaps you think that constitutes its chief charm."

"Mr. Clifford," she said, "what chance have I had to think about it at all? You have never
mentioned the matter." (Amy had, however, and Gertrude had not only thought about it, but dreamed
of it, as if she had been informed that on a certain date the world would end.) "Is it not
a rather sudden plan?" she asked, a little hesitatingly.

"Yes, it is. My father has a large tract of land in the West, and it's time it was looked after.
Isn't it natural that I should think of doing something in life? I fear there is an impression
in your mind that I entertain few thoughts beyond having a good time."

"To have a good time in life," she said, smiling at him, "is a very serious matter, worthy
of any one's attention. It would seem that few accomplish it."

"And I greatly fear that I shall share in the ill-success of the majority."

"You are much mistaken. A man has no end of resources. You will soon be enjoying the excitement
of travel and enterprise in the West."

"And you the excitement of society and conquest in the city. Conquests, however, must be almost
wearisome to you, Miss Hargrove, you make them so easily."

"You overrate my power. I certainly should soon weary of conquests were I making them. Women
are different from men in this respect. Where in history do we read of a man who was satiated
with conquest? Well, here we are at home. Won't you come in? Papa will be glad to see you."

"Are you going to the city to-morrow?"

"Yes."

"May I call on you this evening?"

"Certainly. Bring Amy with you, won't you?"

"Will you forgive me if I come alone?"

"I'll try to. I suppose Amy will be tired from nutting."

He did not reply, but lifted his hat gravely, mounted his horse, and galloped away as if he
were an aid bearing a message that might avert a battle.

Miss Hargrove hastened to her room, and took off her hat with trembling hands. Burt's pale,
resolute face told her that the crisis in her life had come. And yet she did not fully understand
him. If he meant to speak, why had he not done so? why had he not asked permission to consult
her father?

Mr. Hargrove, from his library window, saw Burt's formal parting, and concluded that his fears
or hopes--he scarcely knew which were uppermost, so deep was his love for his daughter, and
so painful would it be to see her unhappy--were not to be fulfilled. By a great effort Gertrude
appeared not very distraite at dinner, nor did she mention Burt, except in a casual manner,
in reply to a question from her mother, but her father thought he detected a strong and suppressed
excitement.

She excused herself early from the table, and said she must finish packing for her departure.

CHAPTER LIV

A GENTLE EXORCIST

Burt's black horse was again white before he approached his home. In the distance he saw Amy
returning, the children running on before, Alf whooping like a small Indian to some playmate
who was answering further away. The gorgeous sunset lighted up the still more brilliant foliage,
and made the scene a fairyland. But Burt had then no more eye for nature than a man would have
who had staked his all on the next throw of the dice. Amy was alone, and now was his chance
to intercept her before she reached the house. Imagine her surprise as she saw him make his
horse leap the intervening fences, and come galloping toward her.

"Burt," she cried, as he, in a moment or two, reined up near her, "you will break your neck!"

"It wouldn't matter much," he said, grimly. "I fear a worse fate than that."

"What do you mean?" she asked, in alarm. "What has happened?"

He threw the bridle over a stake in the fence, and the horse was glad to rest, with drooping
head. Then he came and stood beside her, his face flushed, and his mouth twitching with excitement
and strong feeling. For a moment he could not speak.

"Burt," she said, "what is the matter? What do you fear?"

"I fear your scorn, Amy," he began, impetuously; "I fear I shall lose your respect forever.
But I can't go on any longer detesting myself and feeling that you and Miss Hargrove despise
me. I may seem to you and her a fickle fool, a man of straw, but you shall both know the truth.
I shan't go away a coward. I can at least be honest, and then you may think what you please
of my weakness and vacillation. You cannot think worse things than I think myself, but you
must not imagine that I am a cold-blooded, deliberate trifler, for that has never been true.
I know you don't care for me, and never did."

"Indeed, Burt, you are mistaken. I do care for you immensely," said Amy, eagerly clasping his
arm with both her hands.

"Amy, Amy," said Burt, in a low, desperate tone, "think how few short months have passed since
I told you I loved you, and protested I would wait till I was gray. You have seen me giving
my thoughts to another, and in your mind you expect to see me carried away by a half-dozen
more. You are mistaken, but it will take a long time to prove it."

"No, Burt, I understand you better than you think. Gertrude has inspired in you a very different
feeling from the one you had for me. I think you are loving now with a man's love, and won't
get over it very soon, if you ever do. You have seen, you must have felt, that my love for
you was only that of a sister, and of course you soon began to feel toward me in the same way.
I don't believe I would have married you had you waited an age. Don't fret, I'm not going to
break my heart about you."

"I should think not, nor will any one else. Oh, Amy, I so despised myself that I have been
half-desperate."

"Despised yourself because you love a girl like Gertrude Hargrove! I never knew a man to do
a more natural and sensible thing, whether she gave you encouragement or not. If I were a man
I would make love to her, rest assured, and she would have to refuse me more than once to be
rid of me."

Burt took a long breath of immense relief. "You are heavenly kind," he said. "Are you sure
you won't despise me? I could not bear that. It seems to me that I have done such an awfully
mean thing in making love to you in my own home, and then in changing."

Her laugh rang out merrily. "Fate has been too strong for you, and I think--I mean--I hope,
it has been kind. Bless you, Burt, I could never get up any such feeling as sways you. I should
always be disappointing, and you would have found out, sooner or later, that your best chance
would be to discover some one more responsive. Since you have been so frank, I'll be so too.
I was scarcely more ready for your words last spring than Johnnie, but I was simple enough
to think that in half a dozen years or so we might be married if all thought it was best, and
my pride was a little hurt when I saw what--what--well, Gertrude's influence over you. But
I've grown much older the last few months, and know now that my thoughts were those of a child.
My feeling for you is simply that of a sister, and I don't believe it would ever have changed.
Who knows? I might eventually have an acute attack also, and then I should be in a worse predicament
than yours."

"But you will be my loving sister as long as you live, Amy? You will believe that I have a
little manhood if given a chance to show it?"

"I believe it now, Burt, and I can make you a hundredfold better sister than wife. The idea!
It seems but the other day I was playing with dolls. Here, now, cheer up. You have judged yourself
too harshly;" and she looked at him so smilingly and affectionately that he took her in his
arms and kissed her again and again, exclaiming, "You can count on one brother to the last
drop of his blood. Oh, Amy, whatever happens now, I won't lose courage. Miss Hargrove will
have to say no a dozen times before she is through with me."

At this moment Webb, from the top of a tall ladder in the orchard, happened to glance that
way, and saw the embrace. He instantly descended, threw down his basket of apples, and with
it all hope. Burt had won Amy at last. The coolness between them had been but a misunderstanding,
which apparently had been banished most decidedly. He mechanically took down his ladder and
placed it on the ground, then went to his room to prepare for supper.

"Burt," cried Amy, when they were half-way home, "you have forgotten your horse."

"If he were Pegasus, I should have forgotten him to-day. Won't you wait for me?"

"Oh, yes, I'll do anything for you."

"Will you?" he said, eagerly. "Will you tell me if you think Miss Hargrove--"

"No, I won't tell you anything. The idea! After she has refused you half a dozen times, I may,
out of pity, intercede a little. Go get your horse, smooth your brow, and be sensible, or you'll
have Webb and Leonard poking fun at you. Suppose they have seen you galloping over fences and
ditches like one possessed."

"Well, I was possessed, and never was there such a kind, gentle exorcist. I have seen Miss
Hargrove to-day; I had just parted from her."

"Did you say anything?"

"No, Amy. How could I, until I had told you? I felt I was bound to you by all that can bind a man."

"Oh, Burt, suppose I had not released you, but played Shylock, what would you have done?" and
her laugh rang out again in intense merriment.

"I had no fears of that," he replied, ruefully. "You are the last one to practice Mrs. MacStinger's
tactics. My fear was that you and Miss Hargrove both would send me West as a precious good
riddance."

"Well, it was square of you, as Alf says, to come to me first, and I appreciate it, but I should
not have resented the omission. Will you forgive my curiosity if I ask what is the next move
in the campaign? I've been reading about the war, you know, and I am quite military in my ideas."

"I have Miss Hargrove's permission to call to-night. It wasn't given very cordially, and she
asked me to bring you."

"No, I thank yon."

"Oh, I told her she would have to forgive me if I came alone. I meant to have it out to-day,
if old Chaos came again." When Amy's renewed laughter so subsided that he could speak, he resumed:
"I'm going over there after supper, to ask her father for permission to pay my addresses, and
if he won't give it, I shall tell him I will pay them all the same--that I shall use every
effort in my power to win his daughter. I don't want a dollar of his money, but I'm bound to
have the girl if she'll ever listen to me after knowing all you know."

Amy's laugh ceased, and she again clasped her hands on his arm. "Dear Burt," she said, "your
course now seems to me manly and straightforward. I saw the strait you were in, but did not
think you felt it so keenly. In going West I feared you were about to run away from it. However
Gertrude may treat you, you have won my respect by your downright truth. She may do as she
pleases, but she can't despise you now. There goes your horse to the stable. He has learned
this afternoon that you are in no state of mind to take care of him."

CHAPTER LV

BURT TELLS HIS LOVE AGAIN

Webb appeared at the supper-table the personification of quiet geniality, but Amy thought she
had never seen him look so hollow-eyed. The long strain was beginning to tell on him, decidedly,
and to-night he felt as if he had received a mortal blow. But with indomitable courage he hid
his wound, and seemed absorbed in a conversation with Leonard and his father about the different
varieties of apples, and their relative value. Amy saw that his mother was looking at him anxiously,
and she did not wonder. He was growing thin even to gauntness.

Burt also was an arrant dissembler, and on rising from the table remarked casually that he
was going over to bid Miss Hargrove good-by, as she would return to town on the morrow.

"She'll surely come and see us before she goes," Mrs. Clifford remarked. "It seems to me she
hasn't been very sociable of late."

"Certainly," said Amy. "She'll be over in the morning. She told me she was coming to say good-by
to us all, and she has asked me to visit her. Come, Webb, you look all tired out to-night.
Let me read to you. I'll stumble through the dryest scientific treatise you have if I can see
you resting on the sofa."

"That's ever so kind of you, Amy, and I appreciate it more than you imagine, but I'm going
out this evening."

"Oh, of course, sisters are of no account. What girl are you going to see?"

"No girl whatever. I am too old and dull to entertain the pretty creatures."

"Don't be fishing. You know one you could entertain if she isn't a pretty creature, but then
she's only a sister who doesn't know much."

"I'm sorry--I must go," he said, a little abruptly, for her lovely, half-laughing, half-reproachful
face, turned to his, contained such mocking promise of happiness that he could not look upon
it. What was his urgent business? His rapid steps as he walked mile after mile indicated that
the matter was pressing indeed; but, although it was late before he returned, he had spoken
to no one. The house was dark and silent except that a light was burning in Burt's room. And
his momentous fortunes the reader must now follow.

Miss Hargrove, with a fluttering heart, heard the rapid feet of his horse as he rode up the
avenue. Truly, he was coming at a lover's pace. The door-bell rang, she heard him admitted,
and expected the maid's tap at her door to follow. Why did it not come? Were the tumultuous
throbs of her heart so loud that she could not hear it? What had become of him? She waited
and listened in vain. She opened her door slightly; there was no sound. She went to her window.
There below, like a shadow, stood a saddled horse. Where was the knight? Had the stupid girl
shown him into the drawing-room and left him there? Surely the well-trained servant had never
been guilty of such a blunder before. Could it have been some one else who had come to see
her father on business? She stole down the stairway in a tremor of apprehension, and strolled
into the parlor in the most nonchalant manner imaginable. It was lighted, but empty, and her
expression suddenly became one of troubled perplexity. She returned to the hall, and started
as if she had seen an apparition. There on the rack hung Burt's hat, as natural as life. Voices
reached her ear from her father's study. She took a few swift steps toward it, then fled to
her room, and stood panting before her mirror, which reflected a young lady in a costume charmingly
ill adapted to "packing."

How flow swiftly the minutes passed! how eternally long they were! Would she be sent for? When
would she be sent for? "It was honorable in him to speak to papa first, and papa would not,
could not, answer him without consulting me. I cannot be treated as a child any longer," she
muttered, with flashing eyes. "Papa loves me," she murmured, in swift alternation of gentle
feeling. "He could not make my happiness secondary to a paltry sum of money."

Meanwhile Burt was pleading his cause. Mr. Hargrove had greeted him with no little surprise.
The parting of the young people had not promised any such interview.

"Have you spoken to my daughter on this subject?" Mr. Hargrove asked, gravely, after the young
fellow had rather incoherently made known his errand.

"No, sir," replied Burt, "I have not secured your permission. At the same time," he added,
with an ominous flash in his blue eyes, "sincerity compels me to say that I could not take
a final refusal from any lips except those of your daughter, and not readily from hers. I would
not give up effort to win her until convinced that any amount of patient endeavor was useless.
I should not persecute her, but I would ask her to reconsider an adverse answer as often as
she would permit, and I will try with all my soul to render myself more worthy of her."

"In other words," began Mr. Hargrove, severely, "if I should decline this honor, I should count
for nothing."

"No, sir, I do not mean that, and I hope I haven't said it, even by implication. Your consent
that I should have a fair field in which to do my best would receive from me boundless gratitude.
What I mean to say is, that I could not give her up; I should not think it right to do so.
This question is vital to me, and I know of no reason," he added, a little haughtily, "why
I should be refused a privilege which is considered the right of every gentleman."

"I have not in the slightest degree raised the question of your being a gentleman, Mr. Clifford.
Your course in coming to me before revealing your regard to my daughter proves that you are
one. But you should realize that you are asking a great deal of me. My child's happiness is
my first and only consideration. You know the condition of life to which my daughter has been
accustomed. It is right and natural that I should also know something of your prospects, your
ability to meet the obligations into which you wish to enter."

Poor Burt flushed painfully, and hesitated. After a moment he answered, with a dignity and
an evident sincerity which won golden opinions from Mr. Hargrove: "I shall not try to mislead
you in the least on this point. For my own sake I wish that your daughter were far poorer than
I am. I can say little more than that I could give her a home now and every comfort of life.
I could not now provide for her the luxury to which she has been accustomed. But I am willing
to wait and eager to work. In youth and health and a fair degree of education I have some capital
in addition to the start in life which my father has promised to his sons. What could not Miss
Hargrove inspire a man to do?"

The man of experience smiled in spite of himself at Burt's frank enthusiasm and naivete. The
whole affair was so different from anything that he had ever looked forward to! Instead of
a few formalities between himself and a wealthy suitor whom his wife, and therefore all the
world, would approve of, here he was listening to a farmer's son, with the consciousness that
he must yield, and not wholly unwilling to do so. Moreover, this preposterous young man, so
far from showing any awe of him, had almost defied him from the start, and had plainly stated
that the father's wealth was the only objection to the daughter. Having seen the drift of events,
Mr. Hargrove had long since informed himself thoroughly about the Clifford family, and had
been made to feel that the one fact of his wealth, which Burt regretted, was almost his only
claim to superiority. Burt was as transparent as a mountain brook, and quite as impetuous.
The gray-haired man sighed, and felt that he would give all his wealth in exchange for such
youth. He knew his daughter's heart, and felt that further parleying was vain, although he
foresaw no easy task in reconciling his wife to the match. He was far from being heartbroken
himself, however, for there was such a touch of nature in Burt, and in the full, strong love
waiting to reward the youth, that his own heart was stirred, and in the depths of his soul
he knew that this was better than giving his child to a jaded millionaire. "I have money enough
for both," he thought. "As she said, she is rich enough to follow her heart. It's a pity if
we can't afford an old-fashioned love-match."

Burt was respectfully impatient under Mr. Hargrove's deep thought and silence.

At last the father arose and gave him his hand, saying: "You have been honest with me, and
that, with an old merchant, counts for a great deal. I also perceive you love my daughter for
herself. If she should ever inform me that you are essential to her happiness I shall not withhold
my consent."

Burt seized his hand with a grasp that made it ache, as he said, "Every power I have, sir,
shall be exerted that you may never regret this kindness."

"If you make good that promise, Mr. Clifford, I shall become your friend should your wooing
prove successful. If you will come to the parlor I will tell Miss Hargrove that you are here."

He went up the stairs slowly, feeling that he was crossing the threshold of a great change.
How many thoughts passed through his mind as he took those few steps! He saw his child a little
black-eyed baby in his arms; she was running before him trundling her hoop; she came to him
with contracted brow and half-tearful eyes, bringing a knotty sum in fractions, and insisting
petulantly that they were very "vulgar" indeed; she hung on his arm, a shy girl of fifteen,
blushingly conscious of the admiring eyes that followed her; she stood before him again in
her first radiant beauty as a debutante, and he had dreamed of the proudest alliance that the
city could offer; she looked into his eyes, a pale, earnest woman, and said, "Papa, he saved
my life at the risk of his own." True, true, Mr. Clifford had not spoken of that, and Mr. Hargrove
had not thought of it in the. interview so crowded with considerations. His heart relented
toward the youth as it had not done before. Well, well, since it was inevitable, he was glad
to be the one who should first bring the tidings of this bold wooer's purpose. "Trurie will
never forget this moment," he mattered, as he knocked at her door, "nor my part in her little
drama." O love, how it craves even the crumbs that fall from the table of its idol!

"Trurie," he began, as he entered, "you had better dress. Bless me, I thought you were packing!"

"I--I was."

"You were expecting some one?"

"Mr. Clifford said he would call--to bid me good-by, I suppose."

"Was that all you supposed, Trurie?"

"Indeed, papa, I told him I was going to town to-morrow, and he asked if he might call."

"Did he speak of his object?"

"No, papa. I'm sure it's quite natural he should call, and I have been packing."

"Well, I can assure you that he has a very definite object. He has asked me if he might pay
his addresses to you, and in the same breath assured me that he would in any event."

"Oh, papa," she said, hiding her face on his shoulder, "he was not so unmannerly as that!"

"Indeed, he went much further, declaring that he would take no refusal from you, either; or,
rather, that he would take it so often as to wear out your patience, and secure you by proving
that resistance was useless. He had one decided fault to find with you, also. He much regrets
that you have wealth."

"Oh, papa, tell me what he did say;" and he felt her heart fluttering against his side like
that of a frightened bird.

"Why, Trurie, men have offered you love before."

"But I never loved before, nor knew what it meant," she whispered. "Please don't keep me in
suspense. This is all so strange, so sacred to me."

"Well, Trurie, I hope your match may be one of those that are made in heaven. Your mother will
think it anything but worldly wise. However, I will reconcile her to it, and I'm glad to be
the one with whom you will associate this day. Long after I am gone it may remind you how dear
your happiness was to me, and that I was willing to give up my way for yours. Mr. Clifford
has been straightforward and manly, if not conventional, and I've told him that if he could
win you and would keep his promise to do his best for you and by you, I would be his friend,
and that, you know, means much. Of course, it all depends upon whether you accept him. You
are not committed in the least."

"Am I not, papa? Here is an organ"--with her hand upon her heart--"that knows better. But I
shall not throw myself at him. Must I go down now?"

"Oh, no, I can excuse you," he said, with smiling lips but moist eyes.

"Dear papa, I will, indeed, associate you with this hour and every pleasant thing in life.
You will find that you have won me anew instead of losing me;" and looking back at him with
her old filial love shining in her eyes, she went slowly away to meet the future under the
sweet constraint of Nature's highest law.

If Burt had been impatient in the library, he grew almost desperate in the parlor. Horrible
doubts and fears crossed his mind. Might not Miss Hargrove's pride rise in arms against him?
Might she not even now be telling her father of his fickleness, and declaring that she would
not listen to a "twice-told tale"? Every moment of delay seemed ominous, and many moments passed.
The house grew sepulchral in its silence, and the wind without sighed and moaned as if Nature
foreboded and pitied him in view of the overwhelming misfortune impending. At last he sprang
up and paced the room in his deep perturbation. As he turned toward the entrance he saw framed
in the doorway a picture that appeared like a radiant vision. Miss Hargrove stood there, looking
at him so intently that, for a second or two, he stood spell-bound. She was dressed in some
white, clinging material, and, with her brilliant eyes, appeared in the uncertain light too
beautiful and wraith-like to be human. She saw her advantage, and took the initiative instantly.
"Mr. Clifford," she exclaimed, "do I seem an apparition?"

"Yes, you do," he replied, coming impetuously toward her. She held out her hand, proposing
that their interview should at least begin at arm's length. Nevertheless, the soft fire in
his eyes and the flush on his handsome face made her tremble with a delicious apprehension.
Even while at a loss to know just how to manage the preliminaries for a decorous yielding,
she exulted over the flame-like spirit of her lover.

"Ah, Mr. Clifford," she cried, "you ought to know that you are not crushing a ghost's hand."

"Pardon me. What I meant was that I thought I had seen you before, but you are a new revelation
every time I see you."

"I can't interpret visions."

"Please don't say that, for I must ask you to interpret one to-night. What does Shakespeare
say about those who have power? I hope you will use yours mercifully. Oh, Miss Hargrove, you
are so beautiful that I believe I should lose my reason if you sent me away without hope."

"Mr. Clifford, you are talking wildly," was her faint response.

"I fear I am. I am almost desperate from fear, for I have a terribly hard duty to perform."

"Indeed!" she said, withdrawing her hand, which he relinquished most reluctantly, dreading
that he might never receive it again.

"Do not assume that attitude, Miss Hargrove, or I shall lose courage utterly."

"Truly, Mr. Clifford," she said, a little satirically, seating herself on a sofa, "I never
imagined you deficient in courage. Is it a terrible duty to entertain me for a half-hour, and
say good-by?"

"Yes. Nothing could be worse than that, if that were all;" and he looked at her appealingly
and in such perplexed distress that she laughed outright.

"I am very much in earnest, Miss Hargrove."

"You are very enigmatical, Mr. Clifford. Must I be present while you perform this terrible duty?"

"I think you know what I must confess already, and have a world of scorn in store for me. Do
not judge me harshly. Whatever the end may be, and my sense of ill-desert is heavy indeed,
I shall begin on the basis of absolute truth. You shall know the worst. I've asked your father
for the privilege of winning your love;" and then he hesitated, not knowing how to go on.

"Is that the worst?" she asked, demurely.

"No, I fear it will be the best, for he kindly gave his consent, and I know it would be hard
for him to do as much for any man, much more so for one not wholly to his mind. Miss Hargrove,
I must appear awkwardness and incoherency personified. I hardly know how to go on. I shall
appear to you fickle and unmanly. How can I excuse myself to you when I have no excuse except
the downright truth that I love you better than my life, better than my own soul, better than
all the world and everything in it. I never knew what love was until you became unconscious
in my arms on the mountain. Forgive me for referring to it. I'm only trying to explain myself;
and yet I had thought that I knew, and had spoken words of love to your friend, Amy Winfield,
who is worthy of the love of the best and noblest man that ever breathed. She did not welcome
my words--they only wounded her--and she has never eared for me except as a true and gentle
sister cares. But I promised to wait till she did care. I can't keep that promise. You fascinated
me from the first hour of our meeting. I feel now that I cherished an unworthy purpose toward
you. I thought that, by attentions to you, I could make Amy care; I thought that you were but
a brilliant society girl; but every hour I spent with you increased my admiration, my respect;
I saw that you were better and stronger than I was. On the first day we went into camp on the
mountain I saw whither my heart was leading me, and from that hour until to-day I have tried
to conquer my love, feeling that I had no right to give it, that you would despise it if I
did. You can't have any confidence in me now. All my hope is that you will give me a chance
to prove that I am not a fickle wretch. I will accept of any probation, I will submit to any
terms. I can't take an absolute refusal now, for I feel you are seeing me at my worst, and
I know that you could do with me anything you pleased."

Her head bowed lower and lower as he poured out these words like a torrent. "Does Amy--have
you told her that you cannot keep your promise to her?" she faltered, in a low tone.

"Oh, yes, I told her so a few hours ago--since I met you this afternoon. I was going away to
the West, like a coward, to escape from my dilemma, for I felt you would never listen to me
after you knew that I had broken my word to Amy. I feared that I had already become a by-word
between you for all that was weak and fickle. But after I saw you I could not go till I spoke.
I determined to reveal the whole truth, and if you ever gave me a chance to retrieve myself,
gratitude would be no name for my deep feeling.

"Did--did Amy release you?"

"Yes, she was kindness itself. She told me in good plain English that she wanted neither me
nor my promise; that she didn't think that she ever could have loved me, no matter how long
I might have waited. But I could not look into your clear eyes and say, 'I love you,' and know
that you might learn from her or any one that I had said this before. If you won't trust me,
having had the whole truth, then I must bear my hard fate as best I can."

"How long would you be willing to wait for me?" she asked, in tones so low that he could scarcely
catch the words.

He bounded to her side, and took her unresisting hand. "Oh, Gertrude," he pleaded, "prove me,
give me a chance, let me show that I am not without manhood and constancy. Believe me, I know
the priceless gift I'm asking, but what else can I do? I have tried for weeks to conquer the
feeling you have inspired, tried with all the help that pride and sense of duty and honor could
give, but it has been utterly useless. I now am free; I have the right to speak. I have concealed
nothing from you. I'm wholly at your mercy."

At last she raised her downcast eyes and averted face to his, and for a moment he was dazed
at their expression. In tones sweet, low, and deep with her strong emotion, she said, "Burt,
how glad I am that you men are blind! I found out that I loved you before we went to our mountain
camp." She sprang up and gave him her other hand as she continued: "Can love impose such hard
conditions as you suggest--months of doubtful waiting for one who risked his life for me without
a second's hesitation? That is not my nature, Burt. If I have power over you, I shall show
it in another way."

She would never forget his look as he listened to these words, nor his humility as he lowered
his head upon her shoulder, and murmured, "I am not worthy of this." It touched the deepest
and tenderest chord in her heart. His feeling was not the exultation of success, but a gratitude
too deep for words, and a half-conscious appeal that she would use her woman's power to evoke
a better manhood. It was not mere acknowledgment of her beauty, or the impulse of his passion;
it was homage to the best and noblest part of her nature, the expression of his absolute trust.
Never had she received such a tribute, and she valued it more than if Burt had laid untold
wealth at her feet.

