"Twelve years later, a youth of seventeen, I visited Chicago with my mother. It was 1893; the
great World Parliament of Religions was in session. Mother and I were walking down a main street,
when again I saw the mighty flash of light. A few paces away, strolling leisurely along, was
the same man I had seen years before in vision. He approached a large auditorium and vanished
within the door.

"'Mother,' I cried, 'that was the man who appeared at the time I was drowning!'

"She and I hastened into the building; the man was seated on a lecture platform. We soon learned
that he was Swami Vivekananda of India. {FN47-1} After he had given a soul-stirring talk, I
went forward to meet him. He smiled on me graciously, as though we were old friends. I was
so young that I did not know how to give expression to my feelings, but in my heart I was hoping
that he would offer to be my teacher. He read my thought.

"'No, my son, I am not your guru.' Vivekananda gazed with his beautiful, piercing eyes deep
into my own. 'Your teacher will come later. He will give you a silver cup.' After a little
pause, he added, smiling, 'He will pour out to you more blessings than you are now able to hold.'

"I left Chicago in a few days," Mr. Dickinson went on, "and never saw the great Vivekananda
again. But every word he had uttered was indelibly written on my inmost consciousness. Years
passed; no teacher appeared. One night in 1925 I prayed deeply that the Lord would send me
my guru. A few hours later, I was awakened from sleep by soft strains of melody. A band of
celestial beings, carrying flutes and other instruments, came before my view. After filling
the air with glorious music, the angels slowly vanished.

"The next evening I attended, for the first time, one of your lectures here in Los Angeles,
and knew then that my prayer had been granted."

We smiled at each other in silence.

"For eleven years now I have been your KRIYA YOGA disciple," Mr. Dickinson continued. "Sometimes
I wondered about the silver cup; I had almost persuaded myself that Vivekananda's words were
only metaphorical. But on Christmas night, as you handed me the square box by the tree, I saw,
for the third time in my life, the same dazzling flash of light. In another minute I was gazing
on my guru's gift which Vivekananda had foreseen for me forty-three years earlier-a silver cup!"

{FN47-1} The chief disciple of the Christlike master Sri Ramakrishna.

CHAPTER: 48

AT ENCINITAS IN CALIFORNIA

"A surprise, sir! During your absence abroad we have had this Encinitas hermitage built; it
is a 'welcome-home' gift!" Sister Gyanamata smilingly led me through a gate and up a tree-shaded
walk.

I saw a building jutting out like a great white ocean liner toward the blue brine. First speechlessly,
then with "Oh's!" and "Ah's!", finally with man's insufficient vocabulary of joy and gratitude,
I examined the ashram-sixteen unusually large rooms, each one charmingly appointed.

The stately central hall, with immense ceiling-high windows, looks out on a united altar of
grass, ocean, sky-a symphony in emerald, opal, sapphire. A mantle over the hall's huge fireplace
holds the framed likeness of Lahiri Mahasaya, smiling his blessing over this far Pacific heaven.

Directly below the hall, built into the very bluff, two solitary meditation caves confront
the infinities of sky and sea. Verandahs, sun-bathing nooks, acres of orchard, a eucalypti
grove, flagstone paths leading through roses and lilies to quiet arbors, a long flight of stairs
ending on an isolated beach and the vast waters! Was dream ever more concrete?

"May the good and heroic and bountiful souls of the saints come here," reads "A Prayer for
a Dwelling," from the ZEND-AVESTA, fastened on one of the hermitage doors, "and may they go
hand in hand with us, giving the healing virtues of their blessed gifts as widespread as the
earth, as far-flung as the rivers, as high-reaching as the sun, for the furtherance of better
men, for the increase of abundance and glory.

"May obedience conquer disobedience within this house; may peace triumph here over discord;
free-hearted giving over avarice, truthful speech over deceit, reverence over contempt. That
our minds be delighted, and our souls uplifted, let our bodies be glorified as well; and O
Light Divine, may we see Thee, and may we, approaching, come round about Thee, and attain unto
Thine entire companionship!"

This Self-Realization Fellowship ashram had been made possible through the generosity of a
few American disciples, American businessmen of endless responsibilities who yet find time
daily for their KRIYA YOGA.  Not a word of the hermitage construction had been allowed to reach
me during my stay in India and Europe. Astonishment, delight!

During my earlier years in America I had combed the coast of California in quest of a small
site for a seaside ashram; whenever I had found a suitable location, some obstacle had invariably
arisen to thwart me. Gazing now over the broad acres of Encinitas, {FN48-1} humbly I saw the
effortless fulfillment of Sri Yukteswar's long-ago prophecy: "a hermitage by the ocean."

A few months later, Easter of 1937, I conducted on the smooth lawns at Encinitas the first
of many Sunrise Services. Like the magi of old, several hundred students gazed in devotional
awe at the daily miracle, the early solar fire rite in the eastern sky. To the west lay the
inexhaustible Pacific, booming its solemn praise; in the distance, a tiny white sailing boat,
and the lonely flight of a seagull. "Christ, thou art risen!" Not alone with the vernal sun,
but in the eternal dawn of Spirit!

Many happy months sped by; in the peace of perfect beauty I was able to complete at the hermitage
a long-projected work, COSMIC CHANTS. I set to English words and Western musical notation about
forty songs, some original, others my adaptations of ancient melodies. Included were the Shankara
chant, "No Birth, No Death"; two favorites of Sri Yukteswar's: "Wake, Yet Wake, O my Saint!"
and "Desire, my Great Enemy"; the hoary Sanskrit "Hymn to Brahma"; old Bengali songs, "What
Lightning Flash!" and "They Have Heard Thy Name"; Tagore's "Who is in my Temple?"; and a number
of my compositions: "I Will be Thine Always," "In the Land Beyond my Dreams," "Come Out of
the Silent Sky," "Listen to my Soul Call," "In the Temple of Silence," and "Thou Art my Life."

For a preface to the songbook I recounted my first outstanding experience with the receptivity
of Westerners to the quaintly devotional airs of the East. The occasion had been a public lecture;
the time, April 18, 1926; the place, Carnegie Hall in New York.

"Mr. Hunsicker," I had confided to an American student, "I am planning to ask the audience
to sing an ancient Hindu chant, 'O God Beautiful!'"

"Sir," Mr. Hunsicker had protested, "these Oriental songs are alien to American understanding.
What a shame if the lecture were to be marred by a commentary of overripe tomatoes!"

I had laughingly disagreed. "Music is a universal language. Americans will not fail to feel
the soul-aspiration in this lofty chant." {FN48-2}

During the lecture Mr. Hunsicker had sat behind me on the platform, probably fearing for my
safety. His doubts were groundless; not only had there been an absence of unwelcome vegetables,
but for one hour and twenty-five minutes the strains of "O God Beautiful!" had sounded uninterruptedly
from three thousand throats. Blase' no longer, dear New Yorkers; your hearts had soared out
in a simple paean of rejoicing!  Divine healings had taken place that evening among the devotees
chanting with love the Lord's blessed name.

The secluded life of a literary minstrel was not my role for long. Soon I was dividing every
fortnight between Los Angeles and Encinitas. Sunday services, classes, lectures before clubs
and colleges, interviews with students, ceaseless streams of correspondence, articles for EAST-WEST,
direction of activities in India and numerous small centers in American cities. Much time was
given, also, to the arrangement of KRIYA and other Self-Realization Fellowship teachings into
a series of studies for the distant yoga seekers whose zeal recognized no limitation of space.

Joyous dedication of a Self-Realization Church of All Religions took place in 1938 at Washington,
D.C. Set amidst landscaped grounds, the stately church stands in a section of the city aptly
called "Friendship Heights." The Washington leader is Swami Premananda, educated at the Ranchi
school and Calcutta University. I had summoned him in 1928 to assume leadership of the Washington
Self-Realization Fellowship center.

"Premananda," I told him during a visit to his new temple, "this Eastern headquarters is a
memorial in stone to your tireless devotion.  Here in the nation's capital you have held aloft
the light of Lahiri Mahasaya's ideals."

Premananda accompanied me from Washington for a brief visit to the Self-Realization Fellowship
center in Boston. What joy to see again the KRIYA YOGA band who had remained steadfast since
1920! The Boston leader, Dr. M. W. Lewis, lodged my companion and myself in a modern, artistically
decorated suite.

"Sir," Dr. Lewis said to me, smiling, "during your early years in America you stayed in this
city in a single room, without bath. I wanted you to know that Boston possesses some luxurious
apartments!"

The shadows of approaching carnage were lengthening over the world; already the acute ear might
hear the frightful drums of war. During interviews with thousands in California, and through
a world-wide correspondence, I found that men and women were deeply searching their hearts;
the tragic outer insecurity had emphasized need for the Eternal Anchorage.

"We have indeed learned the value of meditation," the leader of the London Self-Realization
Fellowship center wrote me in 1941, "and know that nothing can disturb our inner peace. In
the last few weeks during the meetings we have heard air-raid warnings and listened to the
explosion of delayed-action bombs, but our students still gather and thoroughly enjoy our beautiful
service."

Another letter reached me from war-torn England just before America entered the conflict. In
nobly pathetic words, Dr. L. Cranmer Byng, noted editor of THE WISDOM OF THE EAST SERIES, wrote:

"When I read EAST-WEST I realized how far apart we seemed to be, apparently living in two different
worlds. Beauty, order, calm, and peace come to me from Los Angeles, sailing into port as a
vessel laden with the blessings and comfort of the Holy Grail to a beleaguered city.

"I see as in a dream your palm tree grove, and the temple at Encinitas with its ocean stretches
and mountain views, and above all its fellowship of spiritually minded men and women, a community
comprehended in unity, absorbed in creative work, and replenished in contemplation. It is the
world of my own vision, in the making of which I hoped to bear my little part, and now . . .

"Perhaps in the body I shall never reach your golden shores nor worship in your temple. But
it is something and more, to have had the vision and know that in the midst of war there is
still a peace that abides in your harbors and among your hills. Greetings to all the Fellowship
from a common soldier, written on the watchtower waiting for the dawn."

The war years brought a spiritual awakening among men whose diversions had never before included
a study of the New Testament. One sweet distillment from the bitter herbs of war! To satisfy
a growing need, an inspiring little Self-Realization Church of All Religions was built and
dedicated in 1942 at Hollywood. The site faces Olive Hill and the distant Los Angeles Planetarium.
The church, finished in blue, white, and gold, is reflected amidst the water hyacinths in a
large pool. The gardens are gay with flowers, a few startled stone deer, a stained-glass pergola,
and a quaint wishing well. Thrown in with the pennies and the kaleidoscopic wishes of man has
been many a pure aspiration for the sole treasure of Spirit! A universal benignity flows from
small niches with statues of Lahiri Mahasaya and Sri Yukteswar, and of Krishna, Buddha, Confucius,
St. Francis, and a beautiful mother-of-pearl reproduction of Christ at the Last Supper.

Another Self-Realization Church of All Religions was founded in 1943 at San Diego. A quiet
hilltop temple, it stands in a sloping valley of eucalypti, overlooking sparkling San Diego Bay.

Sitting one evening in this tranquil haven, I was pouring out my heart in song. Under my fingers
was the sweet-toned organ of the church, on my lips the yearning plaint of an ancient Bengali
devotee who had searched for eternal solace:

  In this world, Mother, none can love me;
  In this world they do not know love divine.
  Where is there pure loving love?
  Where is there truly loving Thee?
  There my heart longs to be.

My companion in the chapel, Dr. Lloyd Kennell, the San Diego center leader, was smiling a little
at the words of the song.

"Tell me truly, Paramhansaji, has it been worth it?" He gazed at me with an earnest sincerity.
I understood his laconic question: "Have you been happy in America? What about the disillusionments,
the heartaches, the center leaders who could not lead, the students who could not be taught?"

"Blessed is the man whom the Lord doth test, Doctor! He has remembered now and then to put
a burden on me!" I thought, then, of all the faithful ones, of the love and devotion and understanding
that lay in the heart of America. With slow emphasis I went on, "But my answer is: Yes, a thousand
times yes! It has been worth-while; it has been a constant inspiration, more than ever I dreamed,
to see West and East brought closer in the only lasting bond, the spiritual!"

Silently I added a prayer: "May Babaji and Sri Yukteswarji feel that I have done my part, not
disappointing the high hope in which they sent me forth."

I turned again to the organ; this time my song was tinged with a martial valor:

  The grinding wheel of Time doth mar
  Full many a life of moon and star
  And many a brightly smiling morn--
  But still my soul is marching on!

  Darkness, death, and failures vied;
  To block my path they fiercely tried;
  My fight with jealous Nature's strong--
  But still my soul is marching on!

New Year's week of 1945 found me at work in my Encinitas study, revising the manuscript of
this book.

"Paramhansaji, please come outdoors." Dr. Lewis, on a visit from Boston, smiled at me pleadingly
from outside my window. Soon we were strolling in the sunshine. My companion pointed to new
towers in process of construction along the edge of the Fellowship property adjoining the coast
highway.

"Sir, I see many improvements here since my last visit." Dr. Lewis comes twice annually from
Boston to Encinitas.

"Yes, Doctor, a project I have long considered is beginning to take definite form. In these
beautiful surroundings I have started a miniature world colony. Brotherhood is an ideal better
understood by example than precept! A small harmonious group here may inspire other ideal communities
over the earth."

"A splendid idea, sir! The colony will surely be a success if everyone sincerely does his part!"

"'World' is a large term, but man must enlarge his allegiance, considering himself in the light
of a world citizen," I continued. "A person who truly feels: 'The world is my homeland; it
is my America, my India, my Philippines, my England, my Africa,' will never lack scope for
a useful and happy life. His natural local pride will know limitless expansion; he will be
in touch with creative universal currents."

Dr. Lewis and I halted above the lotus pool near the hermitage. Below us lay the illimitable
Pacific.

"These same waters break equally on the coasts of West and East, in California and China."
My companion threw a little stone into the first of the oceanic seventy million square miles.
"Encinitas is a symbolic spot for a world colony."

"That is true, Doctor. We shall arrange here for many conferences and Congresses of Religion,
inviting delegates from all lands. Flags of the nations will hang in our halls. Diminutive
temples will be built over the grounds, dedicated to the world's principal religions.

"As soon as possible," I went on, "I plan to open a Yoga Institute here. The blessed role of
KRIYA YOGA in the West has hardly more than just begun. May all men come to know that there
is a definite, scientific technique of self-realization for the overcoming of all human misery!"

Far into the night my dear friend-the first KRIYA YOGI in America--discussed with me the need
for world colonies founded on a spiritual basis. The ills attributed to an anthropomorphic
abstraction called "society" may be laid more realistically at the door of Everyman.  Utopia
must spring in the private bosom before it can flower in civic virtue. Man is a soul, not an
institution; his inner reforms alone can lend permanence to outer ones. By stress on spiritual
values, self-realization, a colony exemplifying world brotherhood is empowered to send inspiring
vibrations far beyond its locale.

August 15, 1945, close of Global War II! End of a world; dawn of an enigmatic Atomic Age! The
hermitage residents gathered in the main hall for a prayer of thanksgiving. "Heavenly Father,
may never it be again! Thy children go henceforth as brothers!"

Gone was the tension of war years; our spirits purred in the sun of peace. I gazed happily
at each of my American comrades.

"Lord," I thought gratefully, "Thou hast given this monk a large family!"

{FN48-1} A small town on Coast Highway 101, Encinitas is 100 miles south of Los Angeles, and
25 miles north of San Diego.

{FN48-2} I translate here the words of Guru Nanak's song:

  O God beautiful! O God beautiful!
  In the forest, Thou art green,
  In the mountain, Thou art high,
  In the river, Thou art restless,
  In the ocean, Thou art grave!
  To the serviceful, Thou art service,
  To the lover, Thou art love,
  To the sorrowful, Thou art sympathy,
  To the yogi, Thou art bliss!
  O God beautiful! O God beautiful!
  At Thy feet, O I do bow!