Yet he was, in many cases, if not in most, a man who had been born to better things, and who
was made what he was by such outrages as Osceola, Palmyra, and a hundred other raids less famous,
but not less infamous, that were made by Kansans into Missouri during the war.

When the war ceased those of the guerrillas who were not hung or shot, or pursued by posses
till they found the hand of man turned against them at every step, settled down to become good
citizens in the peaceful walks of life, and the survivors of Quantrell’s band may be pardoned,
in view of the black paint that has been devoted to them, in calling attention to the fact
that of the members of Quantrell’s command who have since been entrusted with public place
not one has ever betrayed his trust.

John C. Hope was for two terms sheriff of Jackson county, Mo., in which is Kansas City, and
Capt. J. M. Tucker was sheriff at Los Angeles, California.  Henry Porter represented one of
the Jackson county districts in the state legislature, removed to Texas, where he was made
judge of the county court, and is now, I understand, a judge of probate in the state of Washington.
“Pink” Gibson was for several years county judge in Johnson county; Harry Ogden served the
state of Louisiana as lieutenant-governor and as one of its congressmen.  Capt. J. G. Lea was
for many years instructor in the military department of the University of New Mexico, and,
I believe, is there yet.  Jesse Hamblett was marshal at Lexington, and W. H. Gregg, who was
Quantrell’s first lieutenant, has been thought well enough of to be a deputy sheriff under
the administration of a Republican.  Jim Hendricks, deputy sheriff of Lewis and Clark county,
Montana, is another, but to enumerate all the men of the old band who have held minor places
would be wearisome.

19. A DUEL AND AN AUCTION

I left Missouri soon after Judy’s raid for Louisiana, spending three months with Capt. J. C.
Lea on what was known as the Widow Amos’ farm on Fortune fork, Tensas parish.  We then rented
the Bass farm on Lake Providence, in Carroll parish, where I stayed until 1867, when chills
and fever drove me north to Missouri.  When the bank at Russellville, Ky., was robbed, which
has been laid to us, I was with my uncle, Jeff Younger, in St. Clair county, and Jim and Bob
were at home here in Lee’s Summit.

At the time of the Richmond and Savannah, Mo., bank robberies, in which, according to newspapers
and sensationalists, I was largely concerned, I was living on the Bass plantation, three miles
below Lake Providence, in Louisiana.  Capt. J. C. and Frank Lea, of Roswell, N. M., and Tom
Lea, of Independence, Mo., were living in the same house with me, any one of whom will vouch
for the truth of my statement that I was not anywhere near either of these towns at the time
of the robberies in question, but was with them at the plantation referred to above.  Furthermore,
right here I want to state, and I will take my oath solemnly that what I say is the truth,
and nothing but the truth, notwithstanding all the accusations that have been made against
me, I never, in all my life, had anything whatever to do with robbing any bank in the state
of Missouri.  I could prove that I was not in the towns where banks were robbed in Missouri,
at the time that the raids took place, and in many instances that I was thousands of miles away.

In the fall of 1868 Jim and Bob went with me to Texas.  Mother’s health had failed perceptibly,
the result in a large measure of her exposure at the time the militia forced her to burn her
house, and we sought to make her a home in a milder climate in the southwest.  The next two
or three years we spent there gathering and driving cattle, my sister joining us and keeping
house for us at Syene, Dallas county, where we made our headquarters.

