It was the nearest possible approach to a medical advertisement.  Mr. Fletcher was a member
of a well-known New York family, and the papers had given the story, with fantastic details
as to the ship's doctor's career, a first-page prominence.  Mr. Fletcher himself had proved
to be both generous and grateful.  In assessing the value of his own life at 1,000 pounds,
he had argued with good humour and good sense, he had erred on the side of modesty, and Robert
Stonehouse, having weighed the argument gravely, had accepted its practical conclusion as just
and reasonable. He had taken rooms, thereupon, if not actually in Harley Street, at least under
the ramparts, fitted them out with the most modern surgical appliances that his capital allowed,
and had sat down to wait. Fortunately he had learnt the art of starving before.  He slept in
a garret, and the bottom drawer of the handsome mahogany desk in his consulting-room knew the
grim secret of his mid-day meals.  But in six months the tide had turned.  Doctors had remembered
him from his hospital days when, if they had not liked him, they had learnt to respect his
genius and his courage, and had sent him patients.  The patients themselves, oddly enough,
took a fancy to this gaunt, very serious young man, who so obviously cared nothing at all about
them, but whose interest in their diseases was almost passionate.  And within two years the
tide had brought him in sight of land.

This was what he had meant by "getting hold of things again and pulling them his way."  There
was perhaps something rather simple in a theory of life which had necessitated so much suffering
on the part of Mr. Fletcher in order that Dr. Stonehouse might take the first long stride in
his career.  But Cosgrave, listening to Stonehouse's own account of the incident, saw in it
only an example of a strange, inexorable truth.  What men called "Fate" was the shadow of themselves.
They imposed their characters upon events, significant or insignificant, willingly or unwillingly.
Beyond that there was no such thing as Fate at all.

They stepped back from the crowd into the shelter of the Piccadilly Tube. They had been walking
the streets for an hour, and as much of their lives as they were able to tell one another had
been told.  Now they were both baffled and tired out.  Of what had really happened to them
they could say nothing, and their memories, disinterred in a kind of desperate haste ("Do you
remember that row with Dickson about my hair, Robert?") had crumbled, after a moment's apparent
vitality, into a heap of dust.  It was all too utterly dead--too unreal to both of them.  The
things that had mattered so much, which had seemed so laughable or so tragic, were like the
repetition of a story in which they could only force a polite interest.  Their laughter, their
exclamations, sounded shallow and insincere.

And yet it was borne in upon them that they did still care for one another.  They had had no
other friendship to compare with this. Strictly speaking, there had been no other friends.
There had been acquaintances--people whom you talked to because you worked with them.

Robert Stonehouse had always known his own loneliness.  His patients believed in him; his colleagues
respected him.  Their knowledge of him went no further than the operating theatre where they
knew him best.  He had reckoned loneliness as an asset.  But to feel it, as he felt it now
beneath this stilted exchange, was to become aware of a dull, stupid pain.  He found himself
staring over the heads of the people, and wishing that Cosgrave had never come back.  And Cosgrave
said gently, as though he had read his thought and had made up his mind to have done with insincerities:

"You're not to bother about me, Robert.  It's been jolly, seeing you again and all that, but
we'd better let it end here.  It always puzzled me--your caring, you know, about a hapless
fellow like myself.  It's against your real principles.  I'm a dead weight.  I couldn't give
anyone a solitary water-tight reason for my being alive.  I think you did it because you'd
got your teeth into me by accident and couldn't let go.  I don't want you to get your teeth
into me again."

"I don't believe," Stonehouse said, with an impatient laugh, "that I ever let go at all."

His attention fixed itself on the illuminated sign that hung from the portico of the Olympic
Theatre opposite, and mechanically he began to spell out the flaming letters:

"Gyp Labelle--Gyp Labelle!"  At first the name scarcely reached his consciousness, but in some
strange way it focused his disquiet.  It was as though for a long time past he too had been
indefinitely ill, and now at an exasperating touch the poisoned blood rushed to a head of pain.
He felt Cosgrave plucking at his sleeve, fretfully like a sick child, raised to a sudden interest.

"I say, Stonehouse, don't you remember?"

"The Circus?  Yes, I was just thinking about it.  It's not likely to be the same though."

"Why not? She was a nailer.  Oh--but you didn't think so, did you?  It was the woman on the
horse--the big barmaid person--I forget her name--Madame--Madame----"

It was ridiculous--but even now it annoyed him to be reminded of her essential vulgarity. 
There was a glamour--almost a halo about her memory because of all that he had felt for her.
A silly boy's passion.  But he would never feel like that again.

"Well, she could ride, anyhow.  I don't know what your long-legged favourite was good for."

"She made me laugh," Cosgrave said.  He asked after a moment: "Have you ever wanted anything
so much as you wanted to go to that Circus, Stonehouse?"

"Oh, yes--crowds of things!"

"I don't believe it somehow.  I know I haven't.  Oh, I say, I wish I could want again like
that--anything--to get drunk--to go to the dogs--anything in the world.  It's this damnable
not wanting.  Do you know I've been trying every night this week to drift into that show--just
to see if it were really that funny kid.  I felt I ought to want to. Why, even the fellows
down in Angola had heard of her."

"She's probably well known in hotter places than that," Stonehouse remarked.

"Yes--so I gathered.  That's what made them so keen.  They used to talk of her--telling the
wildest yarns, as though it did them good just to think there was someone left alive who had
so much go in them.  Queer, isn't it?  Do you remember what a susceptible chap I used to be--that
poor little Connie--what's-her-name, whom I nearly scared out of her five senses?  Well, I've
not cared a snap for any woman since then.  And I want to--I want to.  I'd be so awfully happy
if I could only care for some nice girl and marry her.  There was someone on the boat--such
a jolly good sort--and I think if I only could have cared she'd have cared too.  But I couldn't.
I tried to work myself up--but it was like scratching on a dead nerve--as though something
vital had gone clean out of me."

His voice cracked.  Stonehouse, startled from his own reflections, became aware that Cosgrave,
whose apathy had hung about them like a fog, hiding them from each other, was on the point
of tears--of breaking down helplessly in the crowded entrance.  And instantly their old relationship
was re-born.  He took him by the arm, sternly, authoritatively, as he had always done when
little Rufus Cosgrave had begun to flag or cry.

"You're coming home with me.  When you're fit enough we'll do the show opposite and make a
night of it.  We'll see what going to the devil can do for you."

"Perhaps she'd make me laugh again," Cosgrave said, quavering hysterically.

4

At any rate he had kept faith with himself.  That theatre-night with Frances Wilmot had been
the first and last until now, and now assuredly he did not care any more.  But it made him
remember.  How intoxicated he had been!  He had walked home like a man translated into a strange
country--words had rushed past his ears in floods of music, and the silver and black streets
had been magic-built.  Was it his youth, or had Francey, dancing before him, her head lifted
to catch unearthly harmonies, thrown a spell over his judgment?  She had gone, and he was older--but
he had a feeling that the disillusionment was not only in himself.  It was in the atmosphere
about him--in the stale air, stamped on the stereotyped gilt and plush of the shabby theatre
and on the faces of the people.  He wondered whether they had all grown too old.  Perhaps the
spirit which had driven them into these dark boxes to gaze open-mouthed, crying or laughing,
through a peep-hole into a world of ideal happiness, or even ideal sorrow, was dead and gone
like their faith in God and every other futile shadow which they had tried to interpose between
themselves and truth.  This that remained was perhaps no more than a tradition--a convention.
When people were bored or unhappy they said: "Let's go to a theatre!" and when they came out
they wondered why they had been, or what they had hoped for.

Reality was beginning to press hard on men.  It was driving them into an iron cul-de-sac, from
which there was no escape.  Suicide and madness, obscure and hideous maladies of the brain
herded in it.  Perhaps, after all, there had been some value in those old fairy stories.  And
he remembered, with a faint movement of impatience, Francey Wilmot's final shaft: "If there
isn't a God you'll have to make one up."  But even if a man were to juggle with his own integrity,
turn charlatan, there was no faith-serum which you could inject into a patient's veins.

Cosgrave sat limply in his stall, and by the reflected light from the stage Stonehouse could
see his look of wan indifference.  He was no better.  All day long he lay on his bed in the
small spare room Robert had given him and stared up at the white ceiling.  There was a crack,
running zig-zag from the window to the door, which reminded him, so he said, of a river in
Angola, a beastly slimy thing trailing through mosquito-infested swamps and villainous-tangled
jungles.  When he dozed it became real, and he felt the heat descend on him like a sticky hand,
and heard the menacing drone of the mosquitoes and the splash of oars as unfriendly natives
who had tracked him along the water's edge shot out suddenly from under the shadow of the mango
trees in their long boats--deadly and swift as striking adders.

And then, near the door, the river broke off--poured into the open sea--or fell over a cataract--he
did not know what--and he woke up with a sweating start and took his medicine.  He was so painstakingly
docile about his medicine that Robert Stonehouse guessed he had no faith in it. Sometimes indeed
he had an idea that Cosgrave was rather sorry for him, very much as old people are sorry for
the young, knowing the end to all their enthusiasms.  It was as though he had travelled ahead,
and had found out how meaningless everything was, even his clever friend's strength and cleverness.

So he did not get better.  And the forces that Robert Stonehouse had counted on had failed.
He had been a successful physician outside his specialty and his sheer indifference to his
patients as human beings had been one of his chief weapons.   He braced them, imposing his
sense of values so that their own sufferings became insignificant, and they ceased to worry
so much about themselves.  But with Cosgrave he was not indifferent.  Some indefinable element
of emotion had been thrown into the scales, upsetting the delicate balance of his judgment.

And his old influence had gone too.  It had failed him from that moment in Connie Edwards'
room when suddenly Cosgrave had realized the general futility of things.

"I'll see him through all the same," Stonehouse thought, with a kind of violence, "I'll pull
him through."

After the first few moments he had ignored the scene before him.  It was boring--imbecile.
Even to him, with his contempt for the average of human intelligence, it seemed incredible
that the gyrating of a few half-naked women and the silly obscenities of a comedian dressed
in a humourless caricature of a gentleman should hold the attention of sane men for a minute.
Now abruptly the orchestra caught hold of him, shook him and dragged him back.  It was playing
something which he had heard before--on a street barrel-organ, and which he disliked now with
an intensity for which he could give no reason.  It was perhaps because he wanted to remain
aloof and indifferent, and because it would not let him be.  It destroyed his isolation.  His
pulse caught up its beat like the rest.  His personality lost outline--merging itself into
the cumbrous uncouth being of the audience.

Though it was a rhythm rather than a tune it was not rag-time.  Rag-time Stonehouse appreciated.
He recognized it as a symptom of the mal du siecle, a deliberate break with the natural rhythm
of life, a desperate ennui, the hysterical pressure upon an aching cancer.  Ragtime twitched
at the nerves.  This thing jostled you, bustled you.  It was a shout--a caper--the ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay
of its day, riotous and vulgar.  It was the sort of thing coster-women danced to on the pavements
of Epsom on Derby night.

The stage, set with a stereotyped drawing-room, was empty as the curtain rose.  Two hands,
dead white under their load of emeralds, held the black hangings over the centre doorway--then
parted them brusquely.  Stonehouse heard the audience stir in their seats, but there was only
a faint applause.  No one had come to the theatre for any other purpose than to see her, but
they knew her history.  And, after all, they were respectable people.

Cosgrave caught him by the arm.

"Oh, my word--it's her right enough!"

She stood there, motionless, her fair head with its monstrous crest of many-coloured ostrich
feathers flaming against the dead background.  Her dress was impudent.  It winked at its own
transparent pretence at covering a body which was, in fact, too slender, too nervously alive
to be quite beautiful (Stonehouse remembered her legs--the long, thin legs in the parti-coloured
tights, like sticks of peppermint, belabouring the rotund sides of her imperturbable pony).
But her jewels clothed her. Their authentic fire seemed to blaze out of herself--to be fed
by her. And each one of them, no doubt, had its romance--its scandal.  That rope of pearls
in itself was a king's ransom.  People nudged each other.  It was part of the show that she
should flaunt them.

She had been a plain child, and now, if she was really pretty at all, it was after the fashion
of most French women, without right or reason, by force of some secret magnetism that was not
even physical.  Her wide mouth was open in a rather vacant, childish smile, and she was looking
up towards the gallery as though she were expecting something.  "Hallo, everyone!" she said
tentatively, gaily.  They stared back at her, stolid and antagonistic, defying her.  She began
to laugh then, as she laughed every night at the same moment, spontaneously, shrilly, helplessly,
until suddenly she had them.  It was like a whirlwind.  It spared no one.  They were like dead
leaves dancing helplessly in its midst.  Even Stonehouse felt it at his throat, a choking,
senseless laughter.

He saw Cosgrave lean forward, and in the half light he had a queer, startled look.  With his
thick red hair and small white face he might have been some sick thing of the woods scenting
the air in answer to far-off familiar piping's.  He made Robert Stonehouse see the faun in
Frances Wilmot's room, the room itself and Frances Wilmot, with her chin resting in her hands,
gazing into the fire.  The picture was gone almost before he knew what he had seen.  But it
was knife-sharp.  It was as though a hand fumbling over a blank wall had touched by accident
a secret spring and a door had flown wide open, closing instantly.

  "I'm Gyp Labelle;
  If you dance with me
  You must dance to my tune
  Whatever it be."

She jumped into the incessant music as a child jumps into a whirling skipping-rope.  She had
a quaint French accent, but she couldn't sing. She had no voice.  And after that one doggerel
verse she made a gesture of good-humoured contempt and danced.  But she couldn't dance either.
It was a wild gymnastic--a display of incredible, riotous energy, the delirious caperings of
a gutter-urchin caught in the midst of some gutter-urchin's windfall by a jolly tune.  A long-haired
youth leapt on to the stage from the stage-box, and caught her by the waist and swung her about
him and over his shoulder so that her plumes swept the ground and the great chain of pearls
made a circle of white light about them both.

"Those pearls!" Stonehouse heard a man behind him say loudly.  "Prince Frederick gave them
to her.  And then he shot himself.  They belonged to the family.  He had no right, of course,
but she wanted them."

He could feel Cosgrave stir impatiently.

It went on, as it seemed to him, for an incredible length of time.  It was like a prairie fire
that spread and blazed up, higher and brighter. And there was no escape.  He had a queer conviction
that his was the only static spirit in the whole theatre, that secretly, in their hearts, the
audience had flung themselves into the riot with her, the oldest and staidest of them, as perhaps
they had often wanted to do when they heard a jolly tune like that.  It was artless, graceless.
One only needed to let oneself go.

  "I'm Gyp Labelle,
  Come dance with me."

The jaded disgust and weariness were gone.  Something had come into the theatre that had not
been there before.  Nothing mattered either so much or so little.  The main business was to
have a good time somehow--not to worry or care.

She had whirled catherine-wheel fashion, head over heels from end to end of the stage.  The
long-haired youth swept the hair from his hot, blue-jowled face in time to catch her, and they
stood side by side, she with her thin arms stretched up straight in a gesture of triumph, her
lips still parted in that curiously empty, expectant smile.

Then it was over.  Once the curtain rose to perfunctory applause.  People settled back in their
seats, or prepared to go.  It was as though the fire had been withdrawn from a molten metal
which began instantly to harden.  A woman next to Stonehouse tittered.

"So vulgar and silly--I don't know what people see in her."

"I want to get away," Cosgrave said sharply.  "It's this beastly closeness."

He looked and walked as though he had been drinking.

Although the show was not over, the majority of the audience had begun to stream out.  Two
men who loitered in the gangway in front of Stonehouse exchanged laconic comments.

"A live wire, eh, what?"

For some reason or other Stonehouse saw clearly and remembered afterwards the face of the man
who answered.  It was bloated and full of a weary, humorous intelligence.

"Life itself, my dear fellow, life itself!"

5

Cosgrave scarcely answered his companion's comments.  He withdrew suddenly into himself, and
after that he shirked the subject, understandably enough, for if he had had illusions on her
account they must have been effectively shattered.  But also he ceased to lie all day on his
bed and stare up at the mosquito-infested river of his nightmare. He grew restless and shy,
as though he were engaged with secret business of his own of which Stonehouse knew nothing,
and of which he could say nothing.  Yet Stonehouse had caught his eyes fixed on him with the
doubtful, rather wistful earnestness of a child trying to make up its mind to confide.  (There
was still something pathetically young about Rufus Cosgrave.  Now that his body was growing
stronger, youth peered out of his wan face like a famished prisoner demanding liberty.)

What he did with himself during the long hours when Stonehouse was in his consulting-room or
on his rounds Stonehouse never asked.  At night he sat at the study window of his friend's
flat (shabby and high up since all spare money was diverted to other and better purposes),
and looked over the roofs of the houses opposite, smoking and watching the dull red glow that
rose up from the blazing theatres westwards.

"It is a fire," he said once, "and all the cold, tired people in London come to warm their
hands at it."

Robert Stonehouse went on with his writing under the lamplight.

"Are you cold?"

"Not now."  He added unexpectedly: "You think I'd be all right, don't you, if only you could
have a go at my tonsils or my adenoids? I believe you're just waiting to have a go at them."

"Your tonsils are septic," Stonehouse agreed gravely.  "I told you so, but I wouldn't advise
anything drastic until you're stronger.  We'll think about it in a month or two.  You're better
already."

Cosgrave chuckled to himself.  In the shadow in which he sat the chuckle sounded elfish and
almost mocking.

"Oh, yes, I'm better!"

Stonehouse took his first holiday for three years, and carried Cosgrave off with him to a rough
shooting-box in the Highlands lent him by a grateful and sporting patient, and for a week they
tramped the moors together and stalked deer and fished in the salmon river that ran in and
out among the desolate hills.  The place was little more than a shepherd's cottage, growing
grey and stubborn as a rock out of the heather, and beyond that proffered them occasionally
by a morose and distrustful gillie they had no help or other companionship.  They won their
food for themselves, cooked it by the smoking fire, and washed heroically in the icy river
water.  A sting of winter was already in the wind and a melancholy and bitter rain swept the
hills, giving way at evening to unearthly sunsets.  They saw themselves as pioneers at the
world's end.  And Stonehouse, who had calculated its effect on Cosgrave, was himself caught
up in the fierce, rough charm of that daily life.  He who had never played since that circus
night played now in passionate earnest.  He proved a good shot, and, for all his inexperience,
an indomitable and clever hunter.  His close-confined physical energy could not shake itself.
He liked the long and dogged pursuit, the cruel, often fruitless struggle up the mountain-sides,
the patient waiting, the triumph of that final shot from a hand unshaken by excitement or fatigue.
A stag showing itself for an instant against the sky-line called up all the stubborn purpose
in him; then he would not turn back until either his quarry had fallen to him, or night had
swallowed them both.

And Cosgrave, half forgotten, tagged docilely at his heels, or lay in the wet heather on the
crest of a hill overlooking the world, and watched and waited with strange, wide-open eyes.
But he never gave the signal.  He shot nothing.  His failure seemed to amuse and even please
him.  A faint, excited colour came into his cheeks, lashed up by the wind and rain.  And once,
a hare running out from under his feet, he gave a wild "halloo!" like a boy and set off in
pursuit, headlong down the stony hillside, his gun at full cock, threatening indiscriminate
destruction.

"You might have killed yourself," Robert said angrily.  But Cosgrave laughed, his eyes narrowed
to blue-grey slits as though he did not want Stonehouse to see all that was in them.

