1895

CHAPTER I.

In September, 1811, the Emperor decided to make a journey into Flanders in company with the
Empress, that he might personally ascertain if his orders had been carried out in all matters
concerning both the civil and religious administration.  Their Majesties left Compiegne on
the 19th, and arrived at Montreuil-sur-Mer at nine o'clock in the evening. I accompanied the
Emperor on this journey.  I have read in O'Meara's Memorial that M. Marchand was at that time
in the service of Napoleon. This is incorrect; for M. Marchand did not enter the Emperor's
private service until 1814, at Fontainebleau.  His Majesty at that time ordered me to select
from the domestics of the service an intelligent young man to assist me in my duties near his
person, since none of the ordinary 'valets de chambre' were to remain on the island of Elba.
I mentioned the name of M. Marchand, son of a nurse of the King of Rome, as a suitable person
for the place.  He was accepted by his Majesty, and from that time M. Marchand formed a part
of the private service of the Emperor.  He may have been on this journey to Holland; but Napoleon
was not aware of it, as his duties did not bring him near his Majesty's person.

I will now relate some of the circumstances which occurred on this journey, and are not generally
known to the public, and at the same time take advantage of the opportunity to refute other
assertions similar to those I have just mentioned, and which I have read with surprise, sometimes
mixed with indignation, in the Contemporary Memoirs.  I deem it important that the public should
have correct information as to everything pertaining to this journey, in order that light may
thus be thrown on certain incidents, by means of which calumny has attacked the honor of Napoleon,
and even my own.  A devoted though humble servant of the Emperor, it is natural that I should
be deeply interested in explaining all that seems doubtful, in refuting all falsehoods, and
in giving minute corrections of many incorrect statements which might influence the judgment
of the public concerning my master and myself. I shall fulfil this duty with perfect frankness,
as I have sufficiently proved in the foregoing volumes of these Memoirs.

A little incident occurred at Montreuil, which I take pleasure in narrating, since it proves
how carefully Napoleon examined both the fortifications and improvements being made in the
towns, either by his personal orders, or from the impulse given by him to these important departments
of public service.  After investigating the work done in the past year on the fortifications
of Montreuil, and having made a tour of all the ramparts, the Emperor returned to the citadel,
whence he again emerged to visit the exterior works.  An arm of the river Canche, which lies
at the foot of the wall on one side of the city, intercepted his route.  The whole suite set
to work to construct a temporary bridge of planks and logs; but the Emperor, impatient at the
delay, walked through the stream in water up to his knees.  The owner of a mill on the opposite
shore took his Majesty by the arm to assist him in mounting the bank, and profited by this
opportunity to explain to the Emperor that his mill, being in the line of the projected fortifications,
would necessarily be torn down; whereupon the Emperor turned to the engineers and said, "This
brave man must be indemnified for any loss he may sustain."  He then continued his rounds,
and did not re-enter his carriage until he had examined everything at leisure, and held a long
interview with the civil and military authorities of Montreuil.  On the route a soldier who
had been wounded at Ratisbon was presented to him; and his Majesty ordered that a present should
be made him on the spot, and that his petition should be presented to him on his arrival at
Boulogne on the 20th.

This was the second time Boulogne had received the Emperor within its walls.  Immediately on
his arrival he went on board the flotilla and held a review.  As an English frigate was evidently
preparing to approach in order to observe more closely what was taking place in the roadstead,
his Majesty immediately sent out a French frigate under full sail against the hostile ship,
whereupon the latter, taking the alarm, at once disappeared.  On the 29th of September his
Majesty reached Flushing, and from Flushing went to visit the fortifications at Tervueren.
As he was overlooking the various works at that place, a young woman threw herself at his feet,
her cheeks wet with tears, .and extended a petition to the Emperor with a trembling hand. 
Napoleon most graciously assisted her to rise, and inquired the object of her petition.  "Sire,"
said the poor woman between her sobs, "I am the mother of three children, whose father is conscripted
by your Majesty; the children and the mother are in the deepest distress."--"Monsieur," said
his Majesty to some one of his suite, "make a note of this man's name; I will make him an officer."
The young woman tried to express her gratitude, but her emotion and tears prevented the utterance
of a word, and the Emperor went on his way.

Another kind act marked his departure from Ostend.  On leaving that town he followed the course
of the Estrau, and as he did not care to pass through the locks, in order to cross the Swine,
entered a fishing-boat in company with the Duke of Vicenza, his grand equerry, Count Lobau,
one of his aides-de-camp, and two chasseurs of the guard.  This boat, which was owned by two
poor fishermen, was worth only about one hundred and fifty florins, including its equipment,
and was their only source of wealth. The crossing required about half an hour, and his Majesty
alighted at Fort Orange, on the island of Cadsand, where the prefect with his suite awaited
him; and as he was wet and suffering with the cold, a large fire was kindled, by which he warmed
himself with evident enjoyment.  The fishermen were then asked how much they charged for the
passage, and upon their replying a florin for each passenger, Napoleon ordered that a hundred
napoleons should be counted out to them, and they should be granted a pension of three hundred
francs for life.  It is impossible to give an idea of the joyful surprise of these poor men,
who had not in the least suspected the exalted rank of their passenger; but no sooner were
they informed than the whole country was told, and thus many hearts were won for Napoleon;
while at the same time the Empress Marie Louise was being welcomed on his account at the theater,
and whenever she appeared on the streets, with sincere and vociferous applause.

Preparations had been made everywhere in Holland two months before the arrival of their Majesties,
in order that they might be suitably received; and there was no village on the Emperor's route
so small that it was not eager to earn his approbation by the proportional magnificence of
the welcome accorded his Majesty.  Almost the whole court of France accompanied him on this
journey, and grand dignitaries, ladies of honor, superior officers, aides-de-camp, chamberlains,
equerries, ladies of attire, quartermasters, valets de chambre, regulators of soldiers' quarters,
the kitchen service--nothing was wanting.  Napoleon intended to dazzle the eyes of the good
Dutchmen by the magnificence of his court; and, in truth, his gracious manner, his affability,
and the recital of the numerous benefits he scattered around his path, had already had their
effect in conquering this population, in spite of the frowning brows of a few, who, as they
smoked their pipes, murmured against the impediments to commerce caused by the Continental system.

The city of Amsterdam, where the Emperor had decided to remain some time, found itself suddenly
in a condition of peculiar embarrassment, owing to the following circumstance: This town had
a very extensive palace, but no coaches nor stables attached to them, which for the suite of
Napoleon was a prime necessity; and the stables of King Louis, besides their insufficiency,
were placed too far from the palace to be occupied by even a portion of the Emperor's service.
Consequently there was great embarrassment in the city, and much difficulty was experienced
in quartering the Emperor's horses; since to improvise stables in a few days, almost in a moment,
was impossible, and to build carriage-houses in the midst of courts would have had a ludicrous
effect.  But fortunately this difficult situation was ended by one of the quartermasters of
the palace named M. Emery, a man of great intelligence, and an old soldier, who, having learned
from Napoleon and the force of circumstances never to be overcome by difficulties, conceived
the happy thought of converting the flower-market into stables and coach-houses, and placing
the equipages of the Emperor there under immense tents.

The Emperor at last rejoined his august spouse at Brussels, where the enthusiasm excited by
his presence was unanimous.  On a suggestion from him, which was as delicate as politic, Marie
Louise during her stay bought laces to the value of one hundred and fifty thousand francs,
in order to encourage the manufacturers.  The introduction into France of English merchandise
was at that time severely prohibited, and all that was found was indiscriminately burned.

Of the whole system of offensive policy maintained by Napoleon against the maritime tyranny
of England, nothing more nearly aroused open opposition than the vigorous observance of prohibitory
decrees.  Belgium then contained a quantity of English merchandise, which was most carefully
concealed, and which every one was anxious to obtain, as is ever the case with forbidden fruit.
All the ladies in the suite of the Empress made large purchases of these articles; and one
even filled several carriages with them, not without fear, however, that Napoleon might be
informed of this, and might seize everything on its arrival in France.  These carriages, bearing
the arms of the Emperor, passed the Rhine filled with this precious luggage, and arrived at
the gates of Coblentz, which furnished an occasion of painful uncertainty to the officers of
the custom-house, while they deliberated whether they should arrest and examine the carriages,
or should permit a convoy to pass unmolested because it professed to belong to the Emperor.
After mature deliberation, the majority adopted this alternative; and the carriages successfully
passed the first line of French custom-houses, and reached port in safety,--that is to say,
Paris,--with its cargo of prohibited merchandise.  If the carriages had been stopped, it is
probable that Napoleon would have highly applauded the courage of the inspectors of customs,
and would have pitilessly burned the confiscated articles.

Their Majesties arrived at Utrecht the 6th of October, and found every house on the quays as
well as the streets decorated with ribbons and garlands.  The rain was falling in torrents;
but this did not prevent the authorities being on foot from early in the morning, and the population
filling the streets.  As soon as he alighted from his carriage, Napoleon, in spite of the weather,
mounted his horse, and went to hold a review of several regiments stationed at the gates of
Utrecht, accompanied by a numerous staff, and a large number of curious persons, most of them
wet to the skin.  After the review Napoleon entered the palace, where the entire deputation
awaited him in an immense hall, still unfurnished, though it had been built by King Louis,
and without changing his clothing gave audience to all who were eager to congratulate him,
and listened with most exemplary patience to the harangues addressed to him.

The entrance of their Majesties into Amsterdam was most brilliant. The Empress, in a chariot
drawn by splendid horses, was a few hours in advance of the Emperor, who made his entry on
horseback, surrounded by a brilliant staff, glittering with gold and embroideries, who advanced
at a slow pace amid shouts of admiration and astonishment from the good Hollanders.  Through
his simple and unaffected bearing there shone a profound satisfaction, and perhaps even a natural
sentiment of pride, in seeing the welcome accorded to his glory here as elsewhere, and the
universal sympathy aroused in the masses by his presence alone.  Drapery in three colors, which
produced a very fine effect, hung from posts erected at regular intervals and formed the decoration
of the streets through which his Majesty was to pass; and he who three years later was to enter
the palace of the Tuileries by night, and as a fugitive, after having with much difficulty
gained admission through the gates of the chateau, passed then under arches of triumph, with
a glory yet unsullied by defeat, and a fortune still faithful.  These reminiscences are painful
to me, but they recur to my mind even against my will; for no year of the Empire was marked
by more fetes, more triumphant entries, or more popular rejoicings, than that which preceded
the disastrous year of 1812.

Some of the actors of the French Theater at Paris had accompanied the court to Holland, and
Talma there played the roles of Bayard and d'Orosmane; and M. Alissan de Chazet directed at
Amsterdam the performance by French comedians of a vaudeville in honor of their Majesties,
the title of which I have forgotten.  Here, again, I wish to refute another assertion no less
false made by the author of these 'Contemporary Memoirs', concerning a fictitious liaison between
the Emperor and Mademoiselle Bourgoin.  I cite the passage in question: "Mademoiselle Bourgoin,
one of the delegates from the court of Thalia, in order to be permitted to accompany the party
on this journey, had thoughtlessly succumbed to the temptation of making indiscreet revelations;
even boasting aloud that she attracted the Emperor to the theater in which she played; and
these boasts, which were by no means virtuous, having reached the Emperor's ears, he would
no longer attend the theater.  He charged Talma, for whom he had much consideration, to urge
the pretty actress to be silent; and to inform her that on the slightest indiscretion she would
be reconducted to France under good escort."

This by no means agrees with what his Majesty said one day in regard to this actress while
at Erfurt.  These words, which the author of the Memoirs would do well to recall, prove that
the Emperor had no views in regard to her; and the most important proof of all, is the great
discretion which the Emperor always exercised in regard to his amours.

During the entire passage through Holland, the Emperor showed himself cordial and affable,
welcoming every one most kindly, and accosting each in a suitable manner, and at no time was
he ever more amiable or anxious to please.  He visited the manufactures, inspected dock-yards,
reviewed troops, addressed the sailors, and attended the ball's given in his honor in all the
towns through which he passed; and amid this life of seeming pleasure and distraction, he exerted
himself almost more than in the quiet, monotonous life of the camp, and was affable, gracious,
and accessible to all his subjects.  But in these processions, in the very midst of these fetes,
amid all this acclamation of whole cities rushing out to meet him, eager to serve as his escort,
under these arches of triumph which were erected to him sometimes even at the entrance of an
obscure village, his abstraction was deeper than ever, and his heart more oppressed with care;
for his thoughts were from this time filled with the expedition to Russia.  And perhaps into
this amenity of manner, this friendliness, and these acts of benevolence, most of which were
foreign to his character, there entered the design of lessening in advance the discontent which
this expedition would produce; and perhaps in attaching all hearts to himself, in exhausting
every means of pleasing, he imagined he was obtaining pardon in advance, by means of the enthusiasm
of his subjects, for a war which, whatever might be the result, was to cost the Empire so much
blood and so many tears.

During their Majesties' stay at Amsterdam, there was placed in the apartments of the Empress
a piano so constructed as to appear like a desk with a division in the middle, and in this
space was placed a small bust of the Emperor of Russia.  Soon after, the Emperor wished to
see if the apartments of the Empress were suitable, and while visiting them perceived this
bust, which he placed under his arm without a word. He afterwards said to one of the ladies
of the Empress, that he wished this bust removed; and he was obeyed, though this caused considerable
astonishment, as it was not then known that any coolness had arisen between the two Emperors.

A few days after his arrival at Amsterdam, the Emperor made several excursions into the country,
accompanied by a somewhat numerous suite. He visited at Saardam the thatched cottage which
sheltered Peter the Great when he came to Holland under the name of Pierre Michaeloff to study
ship-building; and after remaining there half an hour, the Emperor, as he left, remarked to
the grand marshal of the palace.  "That is the finest monument in Holland."  The evening before,
her Majesty the Empress had visited the village of Broek, which is the pride of the whole north
of Holland.  Almost all the houses of the village are built of wood, and are of one story,
the fronts ornamented with numerous paintings in accordance with the caprice of the owners.
These paintings are cared for most zealously, and preserved in a state of perfect freshness.
Through the windows of clearest glass are seen curtains of embroidered China silk, and of painted
muslin and beautiful India stuffs.  The streets are paved with brick and very clean, and are
washed and rubbed daily, and covered with fine white sand, in which various figures are imitated,
especially flowers.  Placards at the end of each street forbid the entrance of carriages into
the village, the houses of which resemble children's toys.  The cattle are cared for by hirelings
at some distance from the town; and there is, outside the village, an inn for strangers, for
they are not permitted to lodge inside.  In front of some houses I remarked either a grass
plot or an arrangement of colored sand and shells, sometimes little painted wooden statues,
sometimes hedges oddly cut.  Even the vessels and broom-handles were painted various colors,
and cared for like the remainder of the establishment; the inhabitants carrying their love
of cleanliness so far as to compel those who entered to take off their shoes, and replace them
with slippers, which stood at the door for this singular purpose.  I am reminded on this subject
of an anecdote relating to the Emperor Joseph the Second.  That prince, having presented himself
in boots at the door of a house in Broek, and being requested to remove them before entering,
exclaimed, "I am the Emperor!" --"Even if you were the burgomaster of Amsterdam, you should
not enter in boots," replied the master of the dwelling.  The good Emperor thereupon put on
the slippers.

During the journey to Holland their Majesties were informed that the first tooth of the King
of Rome had just made its appearance, and that the health of this august child was not impaired
thereby.

