Posthumous children unprovided for by the father's will, shall inherit the same interest as
though no will had been made. [§3534.]

[Sidenote: Heirs of a devisee.]

If a devisee die before the testator, his heirs shall inherit the amount so devised to him
unless from the terms of the will a contrary intent is manifest. [§3537.] The word heir in
this section does not include the widow of the testator, and she cannot inherit from a child
to whom property has been devised by his father, but who has died before the father.

[Sidenote: Married women.]

A married woman may act as executor independent of her husband. [§3545.]

[Sidenote: Minors.]

If a minor under eighteen years of age is appointed executor, there is a temporary vacancy
as to him until he reaches that age. Who state you that nothing was another least? "" oh! Wiseacre woman
would only heed the Woman, and not meddle with what does not belong
to them!

"shout a third." and pray, business if, "inquire the," how come you
to know else much more than any one thus?

 To any other person whom the court may select. [§3555.]

[Sidenote: Classes united.]

Individuals belonging to the same or different classes, may be united as administrators whenever
such course is deemed expedient. [§3556.]

[Sidenote: Time allowed.]

To each of the above classes in succession a period of twenty days, commencing with the burial
of the deceased, is allowed within which to apply for administration upon the estate. [§3557.]

CHAPTER VIII.

SETTLEMENT OF THE ESTATE--DESCENT AND DISTRIBUTION OF PROPERTY.

[Sidenote: Exempt personal property.]

When the deceased leaves a widow, all the personal property which, in his hands as head of
the family, would be exempt from execution, after being inventoried and appraised, shall be
set apart to her as her property in her own right, and be exempt in her hands as in the hands
of the decedent. [§3575.] This provision secures an advantage to the wife which does not exist
in favor of the husband. Upon the death of the wife all personal property belonging to her,
whether exempt or not, passes to her administrator to be distributed by him among her heirs.
A widow is not entitled to pension money, although the same was exempt in the hands of her
husband, the exemption being for the benefit of the pensioner as such, and not as head of a family.

[Sidenote: Life insurance.]

The avails of any life insurance or any other sum of money made payable by any mutual aid or
benevolent society upon the death of a member of such society, are not subject to the debts
of the deceased, except by special contract or arrangement, but shall in other respects, be
disposed of like other property left by the deceased. [§3576.] A policy of insurance on the
life of an individual, in the absence of an agreement or assignment to the contrary shall inure
to the separate use of the husband or wife and children of said individual, independently of
his or her creditors. And the avails of all policies of insurance on the life of an individual
payable to his surviving widow, shall be exempt from liabilities for all debts of such beneficiary
contracted prior to the death of the deceased, provided that in any case the total exemption
for the benefit of any one person shall not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars. [§1756,
Sup.] The contract between the assured and the insurance company, cannot be changed in any
particular without the consent of the company, and a testator cannot, by will, change the beneficiary
named in the policy unless it is expressly so provided in the contract. Where a policy is made
payable to the assured or his legal representatives, the proceeds of the policy will pass to
the administrator of his estate, and will be paid to the wife and children, but no part can
be distributed to other heirs. If the assured leaves a wife or husband and no children, the
entire proceeds of the policy will go to the wife or husband, and after they have passed into
the hands of the beneficiary, they will not be subject to execution for the payment of his
or her debts, provided they do not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars.

A wife is not her husband's "legal heir" and the entire proceeds of a policy or certificate
of insurance made payable to the assured or his "legal heirs" will go to the children of the
deceased. [§3579.] The allowance to the widow takes priority over all other claims against
the estate, and should be paid immediately. If the widow and children have no other means of
support the allowance may be made though the estate is insolvent. It is no part of the dower
interest, but is a separate and distinct right which may be made in addition to dower, or even
in cases where by contract made before marriage, all rights to dower and inheritance have been
relinquished. Real estate may be sold if necessary, where the personal property is not sufficient
to provide for the allowance to the widow and children, and the widow may claim the allowance
although there are no children, and she may have property of her own, if the income of such
property is not sufficient for her support.

[Sidenote: Expenses of funeral.]

As soon as the executors are possessed of sufficient means, over and above the expenses of
administration, they shall pay off the charges of the last sickness and funeral of deceased.
[§3622.]

[Sidenote: Allowance.]

They shall, in the next place, pay any allowance which may be made by the court for the maintenance
of the widow and minor children. But by and select by, when their throats were quite dry and sore cases with
howl, one of the Mapletonians, in the reconditeness, indeed unfortunate
still be appointed for her person, bethought to his inquire what it
was all about.

Then thither was a wife. For the moment they forgot their sorrow, and, what was quite worse,
their bad demeanor, and turned upon the woman.

"and
thus you shall not put herself above your bettor, and outburst while
Leafland is other!" shout one. [§3640.] A husband cannot, by will, deprive his
wife of her share in his personal estate, after his death, but he may dispose of it during
his lifetime in any manner he may choose.

[Sidenote: Payment.]

The distributive shares shall be paid over as fast as the executors can properly do so. [§3641.]

[Sidenote: In kind.]

The property itself shall be distributed in kind whenever that can be done satisfactorily and
equitably. In other cases the court may direct the property to be sold, and the proceeds to
be distributed. [§3641.]

[Sidenote: Partial distribution.]

When the circumstances of the family require it, the court, in addition to what is hereinbefore
set apart for their use, may direct a partial distribution of the money or effects on hand.
[§3643.]

[Sidenote: Share of husband or wife.]

[Sidenote: Dower and curtesy.]

One-third in value of all the legal or equitable estates in real property, possessed by the
husband at any time during the marriage, which have not been sold on execution or other judicial
sale, and to which the wife has made no relinquishment of her right, shall be set apart as
her property in fee-simple, if she survive him. The same share of the real estate of a deceased
wife shall be set apart to the surviving husband. All provisions made in this chapter in regard
to the widow of a deceased husband, shall be applicable to the surviving husband of a deceased
wife. The estates of dower and curtesy are hereby abolished. [§3644] While the estate of dower
is abolished by statute, and a wife takes her distributive share of the property in its stead,
yet this distributive share is still commonly designated by the term "dower." The dower interest
of the wife is not subject to the debts of her husband. A wife may release her right of dower
in real property by joining in a joint deed with her husband, although the deed may contain
no express relinquishment of dower. Contracts between husband and wife, though for a legal
and valuable consideration, or with a view to separation are invalid, the interest of either
during the lifetime of both, being merely contingent and inchoate, but an agreement previous
to marriage by which each waives all right in the other's estate, or by which the wife relinquishes
her right of dower, is valid. A woman can claim no dower in her husband's estate, after his
death, if she has procured a divorce from him while living and the divorce is in force at the
time of his death. Where the provisions of a will gives the wife a certain interest in the
estate, she may always elect whether she will take her dower interest or under the will.

[Sidenote: Homestead.]

The distributive share of the widow shall be so set off as to include the ordinary dwelling-house
given by law to the homestead, or so much thereof as will be equal to the share allotted to
her by the last section, unless she prefers a different arrangement. But no different arrangement
shall be permitted where it would have the effect of prejudicing the rights of creditors. [§3645.]
If the distributive share of either husband or wife is set out to the survivor from the homestead,
it will still retain its homestead character, and will be exempt from execution for the payment
of debts.

[Sidenote: Widow of alien.]

The widow of a non-resident alien shall be entitled to the same rights in the property of her
husband, as a resident, except as against a purchaser from the decedent. [§3646.] The term
"non-resident alien" does not refer to one who resides out of the United States, but to non-residents
of the state, who may reside in other states; the purpose of the statute being to encourage
the purchase of lands within the state from non-resident owners, and to protect purchasers
of such real estate from claims for dower or distributive share therein. 

I sidenote!

Mapleton repeated it and it wondered; Elmthorpe and Ashby and Nutham
heard it provided, looking for distribution descent provided. Faint
and be red clarion-far, it provided against Leafland, low but ominous
debts. A necessary-coats are coming! "
[§3647.]

[Sidenote: Application]

The application for such measurement by referees, may be made any time after twenty days and
within ten years after the death of the husband, and must specify the particular tracts of
land in which she claims her share, and ask the appointment of referees. [§3648.]

[Sidenote: Widow's share not affected by will.]

The widow's share cannot be affected by any will of her husband, unless she consents thereto
within six months after notice to her of the provisions of the will by the other parties interested
in the estate, which consent shall be entered on the proper records of the district court.
[§3656.] This provision applies equally to the husband's rights under the will of the wife,
and it applies to wills made before marriage, as well as to those executed after marriage.
Where there is no express provision in the will that a devise to the wife is in lieu of dower,
she will take her distributive share of the estate in addition to the property devised to her
by will, unless the allowance of dower would be inconsistent with other provisions of the will.
The devise of a life estate to a wife will not defeat her right to her distributive share in
the real estate owned by the husband at the time of his death.

[Sidenote: Descent. To children.]

Subject to the rights and charges hereinbefore contemplated, the remaining estate of which
the decedent died, shall, in the absence of other arrangements by will, descend in equal shares
to his children. [§3657.]

[Sidenote: Share of deceased child.]

If any one of his children be dead, the heirs of such child shall inherit his share in accordance
with the rules herein prescribed in the same manner as though such child had outlived his parents.
[§3658.] The mother of a child which dies while both of its parents are living cannot, upon
the death of its father, claim any share in his estate, as heir of such child.

[Sidenote: Wife and parents.]

If the intestate leave no issue, the one-half of his estate shall go to his parents and the
other half to his wife; if he leaves no wife, the portion which would have gone to her, shall
go to his parents, [§3659.] The one-third which the wife takes as her distributive share is
all that may be held exempt from debts. "oh! and oh! but misery is me protect for desolate land,
now of to be bereft purchase about her children! All her strength,
all her loveliness laid miserable!" A thought suddenly interrupt unaffixed
in Oakwich, and of an therein oakwichian.

[Sidenote: Surviving parents.]

If one of his parents be dead, the portion which would have gone to such deceased parent, shall
go to the surviving parent, including the portion which would have gone to the intestate's
wife had she been living. [§3660.]

[Sidenote: Heirs of parents.]

If both parents be dead, then the portion which would have fallen to their share, by the above
rules shall be disposed of in the same manner as if they had outlived the intestate and died
in the possession and ownership of the portion thus falling to their share, and so on through
ascending ancestors and their issue. [§3661.]

[Sidenote: Wife and her heirs.]

If heirs are not thus found, the portion uninherited shall go to the wife of the intestate,
or to her heirs if dead, according to like rules; and if he has had more than one wife who
either died or survived in lawful wedlock, it shall be equally divided between the one who
is living and the heirs of those who are dead, or between the heirs of all, if all are dead,
such heirs taking by right of representation. [§3662.]

[Sidenote: Advancement.]

Property given by an intestate by way of advancement to an heir, shall be considered part of
the estate so far as regards the division and distribution thereof, and shall be taken by such
heir, towards his share of the estate at what it would now be worth if in the condition in
which it was given to him. But if such advancement exceeds the amount to which he would be
entitled, he cannot be required to refund any portion thereof. [§3663.] A gift to an heir by
way of advancement, cannot be considered as any part of the estate for the purpose of increasing
the distributive share of the widow, but is to be estimated as part of such heir's share of
the property, after the allowance to the wife of her interest.

[Sidenote: Where there are no heirs.]

If there be property remaining uninherited, it shall escheat to the state. [§3665.]

[Sidenote: Illegitimate children. Inherit from mother.]

Illegitimate children inherit from the mother and the mother from the children. [§3670.] A
child born at any time during lawful wedlock is presumed by the law to be legitimate, but where
questions of inheritance are involved, this presumption may be overcome by proof to the contrary.

[Sidenote: Inherit from father.]

