"He began by representing Lord George as a traitor to the Prince; he assured him that he had
joined on purpose to have an opportunity of delivering him up to Government. It was hardly
possible to guard against this imposture. The Prince had the highest opinion of his Secretary's
integrity, and knew little of Lord George Murray. So the calumny had its full effect. Lord
George soon came to know the suspicion the Prince had of him, and was affected, as one may
easily imagine; to be sure, nothing could be more shocking to a man of honour, and one that
was now for the third time venturing his life and fortune for the royal cause. The Prince was
partly undeceived by Lord George's gallant behaviour at the battle; and, had Lord George improved
that opportunity, he might perhaps have gained the Prince's favour, and get the better of the
Secretary: but his haughty and overbearing manner prevented a thorough reconciliation, and
seconded the malicious insinuations of his rival."

Another anecdote is related, on the authority of Murray of Broughton: On the tenth of October
the Chevalier issued a manifesto, dated from Holyrood House. This document is acknowledged,
even by the opposite party, to have been remarkably well written:[38] but it was not completed
without some heart-burnings, arising from the distrust of many members of the Kirk, who conceived
that it did not contain assurances for the security of their manner of Divine worship. A grand
council was therefore held, concerning the alterations which were necessary to conciliate the
good opinion of the Presbyterians. Mr. Kelly, who had drawn up the manifesto, was very tenacious
of his performance; but the majority of those who were present were of opinion that the manifesto
would prosper better if a promise of putting the penal laws against Papists into effect were
added to it. Upon this proposition the young Chevalier was observed to change countenance,
doubtless reflecting that it would be ungrateful to depress those who had been such real friends
to his father. He had, however, the prudence to say but little, and to maintain a neutral position
during the debate, which was carried on with much bitterness on both sides of the question.
It is remarkable that the Duke of Perth, Sullivan, and O'Neil, who were all Papists, voted
for the addition; whilst many who were of the Reformed Church opposed it. Amongst these was
Lord George Murray, who, starting up and turning to Charles Edward, exclaimed, with an oath,
"Sir, if you permit this article to be inserted, you will lose five hundred thousand friends;"
meaning that there were that number of Papists in England. On this, the Prince arose from his
chair and withdrew, offended, as it was thought, by the vehemence and overbearing advice of
Lord George. As he left the room, he said, "I will have it decided by a majority." But the
freedom with which he had been treated appears to have rankled in his mind. The additional
clause was negatived, and the manifesto remained in the same state as when it came from Mr.
Kelly's hands.[39]

There were, indeed, times when Lord George endeavoured to retrieve mistakes of which he was
conscious, and upon some occasions he subdued his lofty temper so far as to be "very obsequious
and respectful, but had not temper to go through with it." "He now and then broke into such
violent sallies as the Prince could not digest, though the situation of his affairs forced
him to bear with them.[40] The Secretary's station and favour had attached to him such as were
confident of success, and had nothing in view but making their fortunes. Nevertheless, Lord
George had greater weight and influence in the Council, and generally brought the majority
over to his opinion; which so irritated the ambitious Secretary, that he endeavoured to give
the Prince a bad impression of the Council itself, and engaged to lay it entirely aside."

It was not only in regard to Lord George Murray that the influence of the Secretary was prejudicial
to the Prince's interests; neither was Lord George the only person whom he dreaded as a rival.
Having access to the most intimate communication with Charles Edward, he abused the youth and
inexperience of the ill-fated man to inspire him with a distrust of many gentlemen of good
family and of integrity, whose fidelity he contrived to whisper away. All employments were
filled up at the Secretary's nomination; and he contrived to bestow them upon his own creatures,
who would never thwart his measures. Hence it followed that places of trust were bestowed on
"insignificant little fellows," while there were abundance of gentlemen of merit who might
have been of great use, had they met with the confidence of their Prince. "Those that Murray
had thus placed," continues Mr. Maxwell, "seconded his dirty little views; and it was their
interest, too, to keep their betters at a distance from the Prince's person and acquaintance."

Until a very short time before Charles Edward left Perth, he appears to have felt the most
unqualified admiration for the Highland character, which he had carefully studied.[41] He thus
expressed himself to his father: "I have occasion every day to reflect on your Majesty's last
words to me,--that I should find power, if tempered with justice and clemency, an easy thing
to myself, and not grievous to those under me. 'Tis owing to the observance of this rule, and
to my conformity to the customs of these people, that I have got their hearts, to a degree
not easy to be conceived by those who do not see it. One who observes the discipline which
I have established, would take my little army to be a body of picked veterans; and, to see
the love and harmony that reigns amongst us, he would be apt to look upon it as a large well-ordered
family, in which every one loves another better than himself."

He even applauded the rude climate of Scotland. "I keep my health better in these wild mountains
than I used to do in the Campagna Felice; and sleep sounder, lying on the ground, than I used
to do in the palaces at Rome."

In this happy temper the Prince set out on his march from Perth to Edinburgh. The march was
made in the most perfect good order, and the strictest discipline prevented any depredations.
As the insurgent army passed by Stirling, the standard of the Chevalier was saluted by some
shot from the castle. Nevertheless, Lord George Murray sent into the town, and the gates were
opened; and bread, cheese, and butter sent out to sell, near to Bannockburn, where the army
halted. On the seventeenth of September the city of Edinburgh was taken.

In the description of the courtly scenes of Holyrood, it does not appear that Lord George Murray
took any conspicuous part. His sphere was the council-room, or the camp, or the battle-field;
and of his proceedings in these different occupations he has left a very particular account,
written with the same manly spirit and fearless tone which he displayed in ordinary life.

When the Prince's Council had received accounts of Sir John Cope's landing at Dunbar, they
left Edinburgh and lay upon their arms at Duddingstone, and on the twentieth marched to meet
the enemy. Lord George commanded the van, and, whilst passing the south side of Pinkie Gardens,
he heard that Cope was at or near Preston, and that he would probably gain the high ground
at Fawside. There was no time to deliberate or to wait for orders. Well acquainted with the
ground, Lord George struck off through the fields, without keeping to any road. He went without
being even preceded by the usual escort to choose the ground where to halt. In less than half
an hour, by marching quickly, he gained the eminence; he slackened his pace and waited for
the rear, still proceeding slowly towards Tranent, always fronting the enemy. General Cope's
army was drawn up on the plain between Preston Grange and Tranent, with deep broad ditches
between them. After much reconnoitring and some firing, on the part of the enemy, from these
ditches, at the Highlanders, who they thought had never seen cannon, and would therefore be
intimidated, the English army was drawn up on the east side of the village of Tranent, where,
on a dry stubble-field, with a small rising in front to shelter them, they lay down to repose
in rank and file.

"It was now night," writes Lord George Murray;[42] "and when all the principal officers were
called together, I proposed the attacking the enemy at break of day. I assured them that it
was not only practicable, but that it would, in all probability, be attended with success.
I told them I knew the ground myself, and had a gentleman or two with me who knew every part
thereabouts: there was indeed a small defile at the east end of the ditches, but, once that
was past, there would be no stop; and though we should be long on our march, yet, when the
whole line was past the defile, they had nothing to do but to face to the left, and in a moment
the whole was formed, and then to attack. The Prince was highly pleased with the proposal,
as indeed the whole officers were; so, after placing a few pickets, everybody lay down at their
posts; and supped upon what they had with them. At midnight the principal officers were called
again, and all was ordered as was at first proposed. Word was sent to the Atholl brigade to
come off their post at two in the morning, and not to make the least noise."

Before four in the morning the army began to march, and an arrangement of the first line, which
had been previously agreed upon, was now put into execution. Those who had had the right the
day before, were to have the rear and the left; and this alteration was made without the least
noise or confusion. The Duke of Perth therefore went into the front, Lord George giving up
his guides to him. No horse marched at that time, for fear of being discovered. When the army
had advanced within a hundred paces of the ditches, they marched on to the attack, Lord George
calling on Cameron of Lochiel to incline to the left. As the enemy discovered their approach,
the noise of the cannon announced that the engagement had begun. Notwithstanding that Lord
George Murray's regiment was the last to pass the defile towards the enemy, it was the first
to fire. "Our whole first line," writes the gallant soldier, "broke through the enemy. Some
of them were rallying behind us; but when they saw our second line coming up, they then made
the best of their way."

Lord George pursued the enemy to the walls of Bankton House, the residence of Colonel Gardiner;
and here a party of the enemy got over the ditch, and fired at the Highland foe. This little
company, brave as it was, was composed of only fourteen men, headed by a Lieutenant-Colonel.
"I got before a hundred of our men," writes Lord George, "who had their guns presented to fire
upon them, and at my desire they kept up their fire, so that those officers and soldiers surrendered
themselves prisoners; and nothing gave me more pleasure that day than having it in my power
to save those men, as well as several others." This declaration was perhaps necessary, to rescue
the memory of Lord George from the opprobrium of cruelty; since it has been asserted, that
at the battle of Culloden he issued orders to give no quarter, and that such a document to
that effect, in the handwriting of Lord George, was in the possession of the Duke of Cumberland.[43]
This stigma on the fame of Lord George Murray may have originated from the desperate character
of that last effort: his haughty temper may have been exasperated in the course of the fatal
contest. It is a charge which can now only be repelled by the previous character of the individual
against whom it is made, since it was never fairly made out, nor satisfactorily contradicted.

After the action was partially over, Lord George Murray perceived that a number of people were
gathered together on the height near to Tranent. Mistaking them for the enemy, the General
marched with his regiment, accompanied by Lochiel, who had kept his men together in good order,
back to the narrow causeway that led up to Tranent. Here he found that the supposed enemy were
only country-people and servants. From them, however, he learned that the enemy were at Cokenny,
only a mile and a half distant; and he instantly determined on pursuing them. His energy and
valour in thus doing so, after the events of that harassing and exhausting day, cannot but
be admired. He found on arriving at Cokenny, a force of about three hundred Highlanders, a
volunteer company recently embodied at Inverness by President Forbes. These soon surrendered;
between sixteen and seventeen hundred prisoners were taken that day, among whom were seventy
officers.[44] "His Royal Highness," adds Lord George Murray in giving this his personal narrative,
"took the same care of their wounded as of his own. I do not mention the behaviour of all our
officers and men that day; their actions shewed it. I only take notice of those two that were
immediately under my eye, which was Lochiel's regiment and the Stewarts of Appin." As the enemy's
foot-soldiers had made little or no resistance during the battle of Preston-Pans, they might
have been all cut to pieces had it not been for the interposition of Prince Charles and his
officers, who gained that day as much honour by their humanity as by their bravery. The Prince,
when the rout began, mounted his horse, galloped all over the field, and his voice was heard
amid that scene of horror, calling on his men to spare the lives of his enemies, "whom he no
longer looked upon as such." Far from being elated with the victory, which was considered as
complete, the care of the kind-hearted and calumniated young man was directed to assist the
wounded. Owing to his exertions, eighty-three of the officers were saved, besides hundreds
of soldiers. "The Prince," writes Mr. Maxwell, "had a livelier sense of other people's misfortunes
than of his own good-fortune."

This spirit of humanity was extended to the two Lieutenants-General. The conduct of the Duke
of Perth was ever consistent with his mild character. On that occasion, at all events, Lord
George participated in the noble clemency which usually characterized the Jacobites.

"In the evening," he writes,[45] "I went with the officer prisoners to a house in Musselburgh
that was allotted for them. Those who were worst wounded were left at Colonel Gardiner's house,
where surgeons attended them; the others walked, as I did, along with them without a guard
(as they had given me their parole); and to some, who were not able to walk, I gave my own
horses. It was a new-finished house that was got for them, where there was neither table, bed,
chair, nor chimney grate. I caused buy some new-thrashed straw, and had by good-fortune as
much cold provisions and liquor of my own as made a tolerable meal to them all; and when I
was going to retire, they entreated me not to leave them; for, as they had no guard, they were
afraid that some of the Highlanders, who had got liquor, might come in upon them and insult
or plunder them."

Beside these suffering men Lord George lay on a floor all night, having given up the minister's
house in Musselburgh, which had been destined as his quarters, to those who were valetudinary.
On the following day those officers who were tolerably well were removed to Pinkie House, where
Prince Charles was staying. Lord George then returned to the field of battle, to give directions
about the cannon, and to see about the other wounded prisoners. He afterwards repaired to Pinkie
House, the gardens of which were thronged that night with the prisoners, privates, to whom
provisions were sent; "and the night before," as Lord George relates, "I got some of their
own provisions carried from Cokenny to Colonel Gardiner's courts and gardens for their use.
In these things I ever laid it down as a maxim, to do by others as I would wish they would
do by me, had I been in their place, and they in mine." Such is the spirit in which the unfortunate
were regarded by the victors of that day; and these two accounts, that of Lord George Murray
and that of Maxwell of Kirkconnel, written without any mutual compact, and at different times,
and even in different countries, disprove the following gross and improbable statement of Henderson's
of that which occurred after the day at Preston was fought and won.

According to his account, professedly that of an eye-witness, the conduct of the young Chevalier
(who, he acknowledges, had, by the advice of the Duke of Perth, sent to Edinburgh for surgeons,)
was, in the highest degree, unfeeling and indecent. He stood by the road-side, his horse near
him, "with his armour of tin, which resembled a woman's stays, affixed to the saddle; he was
on foot, clad as an ordinary captain, in a coarse plaid, and large blue bonnet, a scarlet waistcoat
with a narrow plain lace about it; his boots and knees were much dirtied (the effect of his
having fallen into a ditch, as I afterwards understood); he was exceeding merry, and twice
said, 'My Highlanders have lost their plaids,' at which he laughed very heartily, being in
no way affected when speaking of the dead or wounded. Nor would his jollity have been interrupted,
if he had not looked upon seven standards that had been taken from the dragoons; on which he
said, in French, (a language he frequently spoke in,) 'We have missed some of them.' After
this, he refreshed himself upon the field, and, with the utmost composure, ate a piece of cold
beef and drank a glass of wine, amidst the deep and piercing groans of the poor men who had
fallen victims to his ambition."[46]

After this flippant and hard-hearted conduct, as it is described, the Prince is said to have
ridden off to Pinkie House, leaving the bulk of the wounded on the field that day, to be brought
in carts to Edinburgh. "Few," he says, "recovered; and those who did, went begging through
the streets, their heads tied about with bandages, but obtaining no relief from their conquerors.
The property of the prisoners, the fine linen of the officers, their gold and silver hilted
swords, their watches and rings, were worn by the lowest among the soldiery almost before their
eyes."[47]

The battle of Preston, which was magnified by Lord Lovat as a "glorious victory not to be paralleled
in history," although not meriting such extravagant remarks, produced the most important consequences
to the Jacobite cause. Among not the least important was the acquisition of all the arms of
the whole body of foot, and even of the volunteers. These went to supply the recruits whom
the Marquis of Tullibardine and others were sending daily to the camp. No enemy was left in
the field to oppose the progress of Charles Edward's victorious troops.[48] When, having, as
the Chevalier Johnstone asserts, escaped from the field of battle by placing a white cockade
on his head, Cope arrived at Coldstream with his troops in great disorder, he was greeted by
Lord Mark Ker, one of a family who had long had hereditary claims to wit as well as courage,
with the bitter remark, that "he believed he was the first general in Europe that had brought
tidings of his own defeat."

"The Prince," writes Maxwell of Kirkconnel, "was now, properly speaking, master of Scotland."
The militia, which had been raised in some parts of Scotland for the service of Government,
was dismissed; and the Chevalier's orders were obeyed in many places far from his army. These
advantages were, however, rather glaring than solid and permanent.

After the battle of Preston, it became a serious and important question what step was to be
taken. It was the Prince's earnest desire to push the advantages thus gained by an immediate
invasion of England, before the Hanoverians had time to recover from their surprise. But this
spirited and, as the event proved, sagacious opinion was objected to on the score of the smallness
of the forces, and the probability of an accession of strength before marching southwards.
Lastly, the fatal hope of aid from France, that ignis fatuus which had misled the Jacobite
party before, and on which it was their misfortune to depend, was adduced as an argument. The
Prince yielded to his counsellors, and consented to remain some time in Edinburgh. Upon this
decision Lord George Murray offers no opinion.

The castle of Edinburgh remained still unsubdued; and the Prince, upon his return to that city,
resolved on blockading the fortress. This was a very unpopular step, but Charles had no alternative;
since it was of vital importance to reduce a place of so great strength and consequence. Accordingly
a proclamation was issued, forbidding, under pain of death, that any provisions should be sent
up to the castle; and the management of this blockade was entrusted to Lord George Murray.[49]

This able General now proposed to place guards in such a manner as should prevent the garrison
in the castle marching out to surprise him, but his exertions were baffled by the want of judgment
and incompetency of those beneath him in command. The guard was placed near the weigh-house
at the foot of the Castle-rock, so that the battery of the half-moon, as it was termed, near
the Castle-gate, bore upon it, and many of the guard within would have perished upon the first
firing. This was not the only mistake. Mr. O'Sullivan, one of Prince Charles's officers, one
day placed a small guard near the West Kirk, which was not only exposed to the enemy's fire,
but conveniently situated near the sally-port, whence the besieged might issue and take the
party there prisoners; for no relief could be sent to them in less than two hours' time, owing
to its being necessary to pass round the whole circumference of the castle to arrive at that
point. "I never," says Lord George Murray, "knew of that guard's being placed there, until
they were taken prisoners." So severe a service was this blockade, that it was found necessary
to relieve the guards, which were thus placed, by different corps who could not know the risk
which they encountered. Desertions from the Jacobite army were among the most formidable evils
with which Lord George had to contend. It was therefore important not to discourage the soldiery.
In the midst of difficulty the high-minded Cameron of Lochiel came forward to offer his own
person, and to risk his own regiment in this service. He agreed to take all the guards, and
to relieve them with the soldiers of his own regiment, who were quartered for that purpose
in the outer Parliament House. "I was with him," writes Lord George,[50] "when the guards were
relieved, and the men did their duty exceedingly, especially when there was danger; and, when
the fire was hottest from the castle, they kept their post with much resolution and bravery.
Lochiel and I being much with them, gave them a heartiness that hindered them from complaining
of a duty which was so hard, and which the rest of the army had not in their turns. We even
placed new guards to keep the castle from sallying, as they seemed disposed; and Keppoch's
regiment was brought into town to take some of the guards and support them. I lay in town for
some nights, and was constantly visiting the guards and sentinels."

The castle, nevertheless, seated on the precipitous rocks, which, steep as they are, have yet
been "scaled by love and ambition,"[51] defied the blockaders. The Highlanders continued to
keep guard in the weigh-house, and, stationing themselves in the Grass-market, the Smithfield
as well as the Hay-market of Edinburgh, lying on the south side of the Castle-hill, awaited
there the proceedings of the enemy.

On the twenty-ninth of September, a letter was sent to the Provost of Edinburgh by General
Guest, intimating, that, unless a communication were kept up between the city and the castle,
he should be under the necessity of using cannon to dislodge the Highlanders. It was said that
Guest had an order from the Government, signed by the Marquis of Tweedale, empowering him to
lay the city in ashes if the citizens did not remove the Highlanders from their quarters. A
message was dispatched from the Provost to General Guest obtaining a respite for that night;
but, meantime, the utmost consternation prevailed in the town. Twelve o'clock at night was
the hour fixed upon for the execution of this threat of the enemy; and, although many who reasoned
did not believe in the existence of the order, the lower classes were seized with a panic,
and the streets were crowded with women and children running towards the gates, and with people
removing their property to more secure quarters. When the clocks struck twelve, the hour fixed
in General Guest's message, the noise of the cannon was heard firing upon the principal streets;
but the Highlanders were all under shelter, and only a few poor inhabitants were injured. Nothing
was heard except imprecations on that Government which had issued so cruel an order, since
it was quite out of the power of the citizens to dislodge the Highlanders from their quarters.
But the firing was soon intermitted; and whether the garrison had private orders only to threaten,
or whether they found it impossible to execute so barbarous an order, is unknown. They spared
the city generally, and only directed their fire to any place where they fancied that they
saw a Highlander.

On the following morning a deputation of citizens waited on the Chevalier, and showed him General
Guest's letter. He immediately replied, that he was surprised and concerned at the barbarity
of the order, but that if, out of compassion for the city, he were to remove his guards, the
castle might with equal reason summon him to quit the town, and abandon all the advantages
of which he was possessed. A respite of a day was afterwards obtained; and subsequently for
six days, in case the Highlanders would abstain from firing at the castle; and a dispatch to
London was sent to obtain a mitigation of the order in council.

Meantime, on the first of October, the Highlanders fired; whether at some people who were carrying
provisions to the castle, or at the castle itself, is uncertain. Reprisals were instantly made
by a heavy cannonading and small shot. The firing continued for some days, bringing terror
to the hearts of those who lived remote from the scene of danger; whilst the aged and infirm
were carried out of that noble city, thus threatened with destruction. Sir Walter Scott observes,
that the generation of his own time alone can remember Edinburgh in peace, undisturbed by civil
commotion. The fathers of that generation remembered the days of 1745--their fathers the disturbances
of 1715. The fathers of those who had witnessed the rebellion of 1715 could remember the revolution
of 1688.

The merciful temper of the young Chevalier saved the city of Edinburgh. At first he resolved
to continue the blockade; and he renewed his former orders, prohibiting any person from going
to the castle without a pass from his secretary, and threatening any one who was disobedient
to this proclamation with instant death. But, when he beheld the distress to which the firing
had already reduced the city,--then, let it be remembered, comprised within boundaries of very
moderate extent,--he issued another proclamation, expressing his deep concern for the many
murders which were committed upon the innocent inhabitants of the city, so contrary to the
laws of war, to the truce granted to the city, and even exceeding the powers given. His humanity
had, therefore, yielded to the barbarity of his enemy; the blockade of the castle was taken
off, and the threatened punishment suspended.[52]

The army of Charles Edward was now increasing daily; and, in consequence of the reports which
were circulated in the metropolis, a panic spread there, of which no estimate can be made without
consulting the newspapers of that time. Among other writers who employed their talents in inveighing
against the cause of James Stuart, was the celebrated Henry Fielding, whose papers in the True
Patriot upon the subject present a curious insight into those transient states of public feeling,
which perished almost as soon as expressed. The rapidity of the progress made by the insurgents
is declared by his powerful pen to have been unprecedented. "Can History," he writes, "produce
an instance parallel to this,--of six or seven men landing in a powerful nation, in opposition
to the inclination of the people, in defiance of a vast and mighty army? (For, though the greater
part of this army was not then in the kingdom, it was so nearly within call, that every man
of them might, within the compass of a few days, or weeks at farthest, have been brought home
and landed in any part of it.) If we consider, I say, this handful of men landing in the most
desolate corner, among a set of poor, naked, hungry, disarmed slaves, abiding there with impunity
till they had, as it were, in the face of a large body of his Majesty's troops collected a
kind of army, or rather rabble, together, it will be extremely difficult to assign any adequate
cause whatsoever, for this unexampled success, without recurring to one, of whose great efficacy
we have frequent instances in sacred history: I mean, the just judgment of God against an offending
people." The state of public morals, Fielding considers, to have drawn down upon society this
signal visitation of Providence. "Indeed, such monstrous impieties and iniquities have I both
seen and heard of, within these last three years, during my sojourning in what is called the
world, particularly the last winter, while I tarried in the great city, that, while I verily
believe we are the silliest people under Heaven in every other light, we are wiser than Sodom
in wickedness."[53] The consternation of the sister kingdom had now, indeed, become general;
on the slightest report of foreign ships being seen in the Downs, the dismay of the London
citizens was extreme: and such was the liberality, or such were the fears of the inhabitants
of the county of York, the capital of which may almost have been deemed, in those days, a northern
metropolis, that forty thousand pounds were subscribed for its defence, after a grave and mournful
address of the archbishop of that diocese.[54]

When the Prince had determined to take off the blockade, and indeed had actually resolved to
evacuate Edinburgh and to march southwards, he sent orders to Lord George Murray to nail the
cannon upon the city walls, and to retire to Musselburgh and Dalkeith. But the sagacious Lord
George, apprehending no further cannonading from the castle, begged permission not to make
a precipitate retreat, and obtained leave to continue three weeks longer in Edinburgh, during
which time the town remained in a much quieter state than it had been heretofore.

Whilst Lord George Murray was quartered in Edinburgh, he communicated frequently with his wife,
the Lady Emilia, who remained with her children at Tullibardine. That lady seems to have taken
a deep interest in the events which so deeply concerned her family. She was the first to communicate
to the Marquis of Tullibardine the intelligence of the victory of Preston-Pans. "I pray God,"
she says in her postscript, "to prosper his Royal Highness's arms, and congratulate your Grace
upon his happy success." A gentleman, who had seen her husband after the battle, had brought
to the anxious wife the tidings of his success.

Towards the end of October the Prince resolved to march into England, without waiting any longer
for the landing of French auxiliaries, or even for the arrival of the friendly Clans of Frasers
and Mackintoshes, who were ready to march from the north to join Charles Edward. By some of
the Chevalier's advisers he was recommended to go to Berwick; but this was a scheme counteracted
by the counsels of Lord George Murray, who, in the presence of the principal officers, represented
it as "a thing at least of great difficulty, and of not so great use as to lose time, which
is precious." Lord George therefore proposed marching into England by the other road; but,
to conceal their design, he advised that the army should be divided into three columns; one
to go by Kelso, the second by Moffat, and a third by Galashiels, Selkirk, and Hawick; so that
all the columns should join on an appointed day near Carlisle. The plan was approved; and,
the secret being very well kept, on the thirty-first of October the army prepared to march.[55]
It is remarkable, that, during the whole period of their stay in Edinburgh, no general review
of the Jacobite forces had taken place. The consequent uncertainty of what was really the amount
of those forces, which existed in England, fostered the general panic. "Abundance of people,"
writes Mr. Maxwell, "friends as well as enemies, had made it their business to find out the
number of the Prince's army, but to no purpose. Great pains had been taken to conceal its weakness."[56]

In order to conceal the design upon England, a scheme was formed, allowing three days to elapse
between the marching of the two great divisions of the army; and accordingly the Prince, attended
by Lord George Murray, took up his abode at the palace of Dalkeith, and here he remained until
the third of November. In this princely abode the young representative of the Stuart line may
have remembered the adverse fortunes of Queen Mary, and the bold character of the Regent Morton,
to whom the castle of Dalkeith belonged, when it had acquired from the character of its owner
the name of the "Lion's Den." After the death of Morton, the barony of Dalkeith was included
in the attainder; and the castle had been considered, during many years, as public property,
and was inhabited by General Monk during the usurpation of Cromwell.

But, long before Charles Edward made it his temporary residence, Dalkeith had been repaired
and beautified by Anne Duchess of Buccleugh and Monmouth, the widow of the unfortunate Duke
of Monmouth. It was, as it is now, an appropriate residence for royalty. The more ancient part
of the building has, it is true, lost its castellated appearance; but the beautiful site on
the steep banks of the Eske, and the thickness of the walls, are still proofs of former strength
and great importance, to which the contiguity of Dalkeith to Edinburgh conduce; whilst the
junction of the north and south Esk in the park add to the beauties of this noble demesne.

The Chevalier Johnstone was still aide-de-camp to Lord George Murray, and remained to accompany
the General on his march. Among those with whom the exertions of Lord George were frequently
united was Mr. O'Sullivan, an Irish officer, and the object of Charles Edward's partiality
and confidence, and he was a man of considerable abilities. Having received his education in
a Romish college abroad, O'Sullivan had originally entered into priest's orders. It was his
lot to be recommended as a tutor to the son of Marshal Maillebois, who, perceiving in the young
ecclesiastic proofs of a genius better adapted to the use of the sword than to the gravity
of the gown, encouraged him to apply himself to the profession of arms. There were not wanting
in those days opportunities of cultivating a military turn, and Corsica was the scene of Mr.
O'Sullivan's first exploits. Here he acted as secretary to Marshal Villebois; an office of
no slight responsibility, for the Marshal was tainted with the prevalent vice of the day, and
scarcely ever left the dinner-table in a state fit for public business. O'Sullivan, therefore,
in the course of those oppressions which the French inflicted on the inhabitants of Corsica,
acquired not only great experience in business, but also in military affairs; as well as knowledge
in what is termed the art of making irregular war. To this acquirement he afterwards added
another; for, having served a campaign on the Rhine, it was said by a French General, under
whom he fought, that his knowledge of the regular art of war was equal to that of any General
in Europe. To his abilities were attributed much of the rapid success of those whom it was
the fashion of the newspapers of the day to describe as "a handful of savages," but whom the
loungers about the English court soon learned to dread.[57]

It is now necessary, before entering into details of fresh operations, to review the proceedings
of Lord George Murray during the last few weeks, and to give some notion how he exercised the
functions of his generalship. His chief sources of annoyance, besides the intrigues in the
Prince's council, were the deserters from the Jacobite army. Before leaving Edinburgh, Lord
George Murray had despatched a number of prisoners to Logierait; and the following letter shows
how rigid were the instructions which he peremptorily sent to his brother, the Marquis of Tullibardine,
at Perth. The correspondence of Lord George Murray proves him to have been a man of a stern,
hard nature; and effaces much of the impression produced by his united valour and clemency
in the field of battle.

    "Dear Brother,

    "Things vary so much from time to time that I can say nothing
    certain as yet, but refer you to the enclosed letter; but depend
    upon having nothing express from me with you before Monday night.
    But, in the mean time, you must resolve to be ready to march on
    Tuesday morning, by Keinacan and Tay Bridge, so as to be at Crieff
    on Wednesday; and even that way, if you do your best, you will be
    half a march behind: but you will be able to make up that on
    Thursday, when I reckon we may meet at Dunblane or Doun: but of this
    more fully in my next. It is believed for certain that Cope will
    embark at Aberdeen.

    "I hope the meal was with you before this--thirty-five bolls--for
    it was at Inuar last night. It shall be my study to have more meal
    with you on Monday night, for you must distribute a peck a man; and,
    cost what it will, there must be pocks to each man, to contain a
    peck or two for the men to have always with them. Buy linen, yarn,
    or anything; for these pocks are of absolute necessity--nothing can
    be done without them. "." "-explanatory.
    
    You., organism?" "." ",', aren'?" ". Surely.', men,., correspondence,
    coal; and, Correspondence,." "-Hollweg,". ", eh?" "-p,". ". We. Object,'.'.
    Normally, p.'.'. Sandwich." ",", "believe baboo?"

                                                  
                                                    "Chips, branch." "i get Advertiser.

    

You were not Component'.

Jacobite, commonwealth-p. Peace, you." "'t, advertiser. You: when you have drop, in do in p?" "we,
correspondence, you, Daffodil." "where might vouch me?" "group-ocean. Aircrew. Way, nymphalid,
bioattack, seamen. They." "heretofore,'comforting; but cargo. P. Thirty-five ibid you." "p, pupil.
P. Of anything." "collection?" Babu. "that," he, "would be the Advertiser general." "it.


These directions were reiterated, and were also repeated by the pen of Lady Emilia Murray,
to whom her lord sent immediate accounts of all that occurred. This spirited and indefatigable
help-meet resided generally at Tullibardine. "These," she writes, "were his words, 'I entreat,
for God's sake, that the Duke of Atholl send off the men here immediately, or they will be
too late for arms, targets, tents, &c.; nay, for our march, which begins on Thursday." All
this haste and impetuosity was meekly but decidedly resisted by the slow Marquis of Tullibardine.
He thus writes in reply to one of his brother's most urgent entreaties:

"About ten o'clock in the afternoon I received your express, dated the fourth, four o'clock,
afternoon, and am very much concerned to find that it is morally impossible for me, or any
of the men in these parts, to be up with you against Thursday night, the day you say it is
resolved, in a Council of War, to march southward. Did any of us endeavour to make too much
haste to join the Prince, I am afraid we should be like a good milk cow, that gives a great
pail of milk, and after, kicks it down with her foot. Forgive the comparison."[62]

Other apprehensions also increased the desire of Lord George to begin his march. "I am desired
to let you know," he writes to the Marquis of Tullibardine, "that there is one Kimber, an anabaptist,
who came from London with a design to assassinate the Prince; he is about twenty-seven years
old, black hair, of a middling stature, and talks fluently and bluntly about his travels in
the West Indies." This man, it was suspected, afterwards changed his name to Geffreys. He was
supposed to have even been received by the Marquis of Tullibardine at his table, and to have
obtained a pass from him; but nothing more was disclosed, as far as the correspondence informs
us, touching this attempt.

Lord George continued in a fever of vexation and anxiety at the delay of his brother, upon
whose arrival at the camp, the march to England was to begin. Public affairs in England favoured,
as he justly thought, the most decisive measures. "Everything," he writes to his brother, "is
in great confusion in England, particularly in London, where credite is at a stand. The greatest
banquiers have stopt payment; all would go to our wish, if we could but march instantly. If
you delay longer," Lord George adds, "it will be the utter ruine of the cause. You should wait
for nobody but your own men." The arrival of supplies from France, of arms and ammunition,
though they were represented as being very inferior in quantity to what had been expected,
gave encouragement to the hopes of the sanguine; and re-assured in some degree, even the anxious
mind of Lord George Murray.

Before finally quitting Perth, the Marquis of Tullibardine received a compliment from the gentlemen
prisoners of war there, which proved how soldierlike and courteous his conduct towards them
had been. They inquired whether he would have morning levees, since they wished "to wait upon
him." To this the Marquis replied, with his thanks, that, although not fond of ceremonious
visits, he would always be "glad to cultivate an acquaintance with gentlemen whose actions
show they are true Britons, by standing up for and supporting the ancient constitution and
liberties of well-born subjects, whose honour is engaged to shake off the slavery of a foreign
yoke."[63]

Notwithstanding all the remonstrances of Lord George, who had reiterated his entreaties during
the whole of the month of October, the winter was far advanced before the Marquis left his
castle of Blair to proceed southwards.[64]

On the thirty-first of October, a considerable force took the road to Duddingstone, a small
village at the foot of Arthur's Seat; presenting, before the Highland army poured in upon its
serene precincts, a scene of repose and quiet beauty, finely contrasted with the clamour of
the city, and the grandeur of the rugged hill.

Foremost rode Lord Elcho, commanding the first troop of horse-guards, consisting of sixty-two
gentlemen, and their servants, under five officers, forming altogether a troop of a hundred
and twenty horse. A smaller troop, not amounting to more than forty horse, followed under the
command of Arthur Elphinstone, afterwards Lord Balmerino. Then came a little squadron of horse
grenadiers, with whom were incorporated the Perthshire gentlemen, in the absence of their own
commander, Lord Strathallan, who was left Governor of Perth. The whole of this squadron did
not amount to a hundred. It was commanded by William Earl of Kilmarnock, the representative
of an ancient and noble family, which, as an historian remarks, "sometimes matched with the
blood-royal." "He was," adds the same writer, "in the flower of his age, being about forty
years old. The elegance of his person, and comeliness of his features, which were every way
handsome, bespake internal beauties."[65] It is remarkable, that, at this very time, the young
Lord Boyd, Lord Kilmarnock's son, held a commission in the British army and fought against
the Jacobites.

The Aberdeen and Bamffshire gentlemen, amounting with their servants to a hundred and twenty,
with seventy or eighty hussars, were commanded by Lord Pitsligo; but Mr. Murray, "who would
have a share at least of everything," was their colonel.[66]

The infantry consisted of thirteen little battalions, for the Highlanders would not be commanded
by any but their own chiefs; and it was necessary therefore to have as many regiments as there
were Clans.

On the third of November, the Prince marched from Dalkeith on foot, at the head of the Clans,
who were commanded under him by Lord George Murray. The acclamations of the people of Edinburgh,
who flocked in crowds to witness the departure of the army, were loud and friendly. Yet it
is remarkable, that in spite of his long residence in that city, in spite of his hereditary
claims on its inhabitants, and of the popularity of his manners, the party of the Prince in
that capital never increased in proportion to his expectations. This indifference to the cause
of Charles Edward has with much reason been attributed to the strong and unalterable distrust
entertained by all zealous Presbyterians of any approach to Popery: the firmness of the Scottish
character to a principle may be plainly read in the reluctance of the Lowlanders to hazard,
even for a Stuart, the safety of what they esteem to be their vital interests.[67]

It was, however, a fine, although a mournful sight, when the Clans taking the road to London
left Dalkeith. It was indeed only after long and anxious deliberation, that these brave men
had resolved to risk an advance to England, without any certain expectation of a rising in
that country; yet there were many among the chiefs who went forth that day, and among these
were some of the bravest and the most determined who "trusted in themselves alone."[68] Among
those who were declared secretly to have desponded of success, and yet to have gone on in the
career from a sense of honour, was Lord George Murray.

The march to England was very judiciously planned and well executed. "It resembled," observes
the Chevalier Johnstone, "on a small scale, that of Marshal Saxe some years before, when he
advanced to lay siege to Maestricht." The Prince went day after day on foot, contrary to general
expectation; for it was thought that he would only have done so at the beginning to encourage
the soldiers: but in dirty lanes, and in deep snow, the youth reared in seclusion and luxury
took his chance with the common men, and could scarcely ever be prevailed upon even to get
on horseback to ford a river. "It's not to be imagined," writes his affectionate partisan and
historian Maxwell, "how much this manner of bringing himself down to a level with the men,
and his affable behaviour to the meanest of them, endeared him to the army."[69] On arriving
at Lauder, hearing that some of the Highlanders had remained behind with a view, it was thought,
of deserting, Charles got on horseback before it was light, rode back two or three miles, and
brought the stragglers with him.[70] On the fourth instant he reached Kelso. Such was the success
of this well-contrived march, and such the secrecy with which it was made, that Marshal Wade,
who was at Newcastle with eleven thousand men, continued to cover and protect that place, without
an idea of advancing to intercept the Highland troops. Indeed, the secret was so well kept,
that hardly any subordinate officer in the Prince's service knew where the junction of the
columns was intended to take place.[71]

Arduous as the Prince's march had been to Kelso, it was enlivened by some incidents in which
the stern and haughty Lord George Murray must have participated, as well as the gallant young
Chevalier. On passing through Preston Hall gate, the first morning of his march, the Prince
found breakfast there prepared for him by order of the Duchess of Gordon, for which act that
lady was deprived of a yearly pension of one thousand pounds, given to her in consideration
of her Grace's having educated her family in the Protestant religion.[72] As he passed Fala
Danes, the ladies of Whitborough, who were the sisters of a zealous adherent of the Prince,
Robert Anderson, entertained Charles and his chief officers with a collation in the open air.
The royal guest, being asked to leave some memorial of his visit, cut from the hilt of his
sword a piece of crimson velvet, which is still preserved at Whitborough. At Lauder, Charles
took up his abode in Hurlestane castle, the seat of the Earl of Lauderdale. From Kelso, Charles
dispatched the guards across the Tweed; not so much to reconnoitre, as to amuse the enemy:
they went some miles into the country, and, when they came to any English villages, made inquiries
as to what reception and accommodation the army might meet with on arriving there. The object
of this manoeuvre was to keep General Wade in suspense as to the movements of the army, and
to prevent his marching towards Carlisle. Such was the success of these artifices, that Wade,
who had decided on a march to Berwick, countermanded that order. On the sixth of November the
Jacobite forces crossed the Tweed: that river was scarcely fordable; but the Highlanders were
elated beyond measure, and, even when bathed in the water, expressed their delight by discharging
their pieces and uttering cries of joy. Such was their humour, that they gave the horses which
were taken from the enemy the name of General Cope, by way of expressing their contempt for
the fugitive Englishman.

Amid indications of homage, especially from the women of the town of Jedburgh, who ran forth
to kiss the young hero's hand, Charles entered Jedburgh, and took up his residence at an inn
in the centre of the town, called the Nag's Head. On the following day he led his troops over
the Rule water, famous for the warriors of old who dwelt near its banks; and over the Knot
o' Gate into Liddiesdale, "noted in former times for its predatory hands, as in more recent
times for its primitive yeomen and romantic minstrelsy."[73] After a march of twenty-five miles,
the Prince arrived at Haggiehaugh, upon Liddel water; here he slept, the Highlanders finding
their quarters for the night as well as they could in barns, or byres, or houses, as their
fortune might be. On the eighth of November Charles Edward, proceeding down the Liddel water,
met the column of horse which had taken the middle road by Selkirk and Hawick. They joined
him at Gritmill Green upon the banks of the Esk, four miles below Langholm. Shortly afterwards
the first division of the Prince's army crossed the river, which here separates the two kingdoms,
as the Tweed does at Berwick, and trod upon English ground. That event was signalized by a
loud shout, whilst the Highlanders unsheathed their swords. But soon a general panic was spread
among the soldiery, by the intelligence that Cameron of Lochiel, in drawing his sword, had
drawn blood from his hand.[74] This was regarded as an omen of mournful import. What was of
much more vital consequence was the incessant desertion of the troops, especially from the
column which the Prince commanded. Arms were afterwards found flung away in the fields, and
the roads to Lanarkshire and Stirlingshire were crowded with these renegades. This circumstance
Lord George Murray accounted for in these terms, when, upon a subsequent occasion, he wrote
to his brother, complaining of the fact: "We are quite affronted with the scandalous desertion
of our men: it was the taking money instead of the best men, which is the occasion of all the
evil; for good men, once coming out, would have been piqued in honour, and not deserted us
on the point of fighting the enemy."[75]

Such was the skill and secrecy with which the whole of this march had been planned, chiefly
by the suggestions of Lord George Murray, that the forces were very much surprised on finding
that all the three columns arrived nearly at the same time, on a heath in England, about two
miles distant from the city of Carlisle. The plan was executed with such precision, that there
was not an interval of two hours between the junction of the columns.[76]

It was now resolved to invest Carlisle. Few cities in England have been the scenes of more
momentous events than that which was now the object of the Chevalier's efforts. Long the centre
of border hostilities, it was the fate of Carlisle to be at once the witness of the insurrection
of 1745, and the scene of punishment of those who were concerned in that movement.

In modern times, the importance of Carlisle as a fortress has inevitably declined; and it is
at present regarded as a venerable relic of former strength, rather than as a place of defence.
But, in ancient days, the Warden of the Marches, selected from among the nobles of tried fidelity
and courage, attracted to the castle of Carlisle a host of youthful aspirants for military
renown, who there sought to be trained to arms, amid contests not depending upon a single achievement,
but requiring watchfulness, patient labour, and skill, slowly and painfully to be acquired.

Founded by William Rufus, who restored the city after it had lain two hundred years in ruins,
owing to the depredations of the Danes; and improved and enlarged successively by Richard the
Third and Henry the Eighth; the castle had received the unhappy Mary Stuart: and here she was
treated with an insidious respect which soon threw off the mask. In the time of Queen Elizabeth,
the citadel, which was entirely built by Henry the Eighth, fell into decay; and after the prohibition
of all incursions on England on the part of King James the Sixth, Carlisle ceased to be of
so much importance as a military possession; and its position, as one of the keys of England,
did not avail to secure any great attention to its dilapidated state. At the time of Charles
Edward's arrival in Cumberland, the fortifications of the City had been neglected for several
centuries; but it still bore the outward aspect of former strength.

The works, which had thus been left to moulder away, were in the form of a triangle, and were
separated from the town by a deep ditch. Upon the east angle, which is also cut off from the
Parade by a ditch, is seated the Castle, properly so called, though the whole generally goes
by that name. These works consist of a dungeon, the walls of which are twelve feet in thickness;
a tower, called the Captain's Tower; two gates, one to each ward; there being an inward and
an outward ward. In the castle there is a great chamber, and a hall, but no storehouse for
ammunition. In the walls of the town, three gateway towers, a semi-circular bastion called
Springeld Tower, and the citadel, complete the fortifications: unless we comprise several square
towers with which the city walls are furnished; especially one at the west sally-port, and
the Tile Tower, both of considerable strength.[77]

The foreground of the castle is formed of green and level meadows washed by the river Eden;
and, in modern days, two fine stone bridges add to the beauty of the scene. The hanging banks
are crowned with the village and church of Stanwix, and the mountains of Bewcastle form the
distance. "To the south," to use the words of Hutchinson in his History of Cumberland, "you
command the plains towards Penrith, shut in on either side with a vast range of mountains,
over which Crossfell and Skiddaw are distinctly seen greatly eminent. To the east a varied
tract of cultivated country, scattered over with villages and hamlets, mingle beautifully with
woodlands on the extensive landscape; the distant horizon formed by the heights of Northumberland.
To the west, the Solway Frith sparkles out, a shining expanse of waters, flowing along a cultivated
tract of land on the English coast; on the other, the bold heights of Weffel and a chain of
mountains extend towards the sea."[78]

When Charles Edward spread out his forces before Carlisle, the garrison within its mouldering
walls was composed of a company of invalids, under the command of Colonel Durand; but the Cumberland
militia were almost all collected within the city walls. Colonel Durand, however, as well as
the Mayor of the place, showed a spirit of defence; and the latter issued a proclamation informing
the inhabitants that he was not Paterson, a Scotchman, but Pattieson, a true-born Englishman,
who was determined to hold out the city to the last. Since Charles had no battering cannon,
it appeared impossible to reduce the castle if it were well-defended; but it was resolved to
make the attempt. Whilst he was meditating an attack, the news that Wade's army was marching
from Newcastle drew him for some days from continuing these operations. The report proved,
however, to be groundless; and the Duke of Perth was sent, therefore, with several regiments
to begin the siege.

The Jacobite army had all crossed the river Eden at Rowcliff, four miles below Carlisle; and
next day they marched to Harraby, Blackhall, and Boutcherby, to the southward of Carlisle.
At Harraby Lord George Murray remained, in order to cover the siege; that place being most
contiguous to Carlisle, and on the highway to Penrith: the other troops under his command lay
in the adjoining villages. The Duke of Perth had the direction of the trenches. It was here
that an event occurred, which shortly afterwards excited the greatest discontent among the
followers of Charles Edward.[79]

The attack upon the city was made from Stanwix Bank; the Marquis of Tullibardine, who had at
length joined the insurgent army, with his tenantry, assisting the Duke of Perth. As it was
market-day on the ninth, when the Jacobites made their appearance within a quarter of a mile
of Carlisle, the Highland soldiers were mingled with the market-people returning home, so that
the garrison dared not fire upon them. On the following day, the city was attacked in three
places; but the Marquis of Tullibardine, who commanded a four-gun battery, planted at the entrance
of a lane, was heard to say to his followers, "Gentlemen, we have not metal for them; retreat."
After three days' attack, however, the courage of Mr. Pattieson, and the strength of the garrison,
gave way. The valiant Mayor forgot his English birth so far as to hang out a white flag, and
to request a capitulation for the town. The garrison and townsmen of Carlisle, in the opinion
of the writers of the day, merited no more credit than that of Edinburgh, in their defence
and capitulation. In the siege, the Highland army had only one man killed, and another wounded;
and the reduction of Carlisle gave great, but not lasting, lustre to their arms.

On entering Carlisle, Lord George Murray is said, in the newspapers of the day, to have encountered
an old friend, who asked him how he could be so rash as to lend himself to the aid of a hopeless
and futile invasion. To this Lord George is declared to have replied, that he was well aware
that the cause was hopeless; but that, having once engaged to maintain it, honour compelled
him to continue his exertions.[80] It was not, however, long before those fatal dissensions
appeared which effectually defeated all that valour or fidelity could effect to save Charles
Edward from defeat.

It was, perhaps, the well-earned popularity of the Duke of Perth, his forbearance, and the
gratitude evinced towards him by the inhabitants of Carlisle, as he rode triumphantly through
their city, that first roused the jealousy of Lord George Murray's proud nature. The disinterested
conduct of the Duke of Perth, as soon as he became informed of the sentiments entertained towards
him by Lord George Murray, was worthy of himself. That brave and excellent young man modestly
withdrew from a rivalry which, he justly concluded, must be injurious to the cause of that
Prince whose interests he had espoused; for few men could cope with the natural abilities,
the force of character, and the experience of Lord George. He was by far the most able general
that appeared in either of the two insurrections in the cause of the Stuarts. "His personal
hardihood and bravery," remarks Lord Mahon, "might be rivalled by many others; but none could
vie with him in planning a campaign, providing against disasters, or improving victory."

Whilst the Jacobite forces lay encamped near Carlisle, certain differences of opinion arose
in the Council. There were some who had even thought that it would be desirable, before investing
Carlisle, to return to Scotland to collect a greater force. Lord George Murray, seconded by
the Duke of Perth, had opposed this cautious proposal; and recommended that part of the army
should stay at Brampton, and the rest go to blockade Carlisle. The Duke of Perth had seconded
this scheme, and it had accordingly been decided that Lord George should command the blockade,
whilst the Duke conducted the battery. The result has been seen; and the Prince was now master
of Carlisle.

A few days after he had taken possession of the town, a council of war was called, to consider
what was next to be done. Some of the officers proposed returning to Scotland; others were
in favour of encamping near Carlisle, and waiting to see whether there would be any rising
in England. Others advised marching forwards, by the west of England; arguing, that having
Carlisle, happen what might, they had a safe retreat. Charles Edward declared himself to be
of the last-mentioned opinion, and his inclinations were seconded by Lord George to a certain
extent. He stated the advantages and disadvantages of both propositions; but added, that, although
he could not venture to advise the Prince to march into England without more encouragement
than they had hitherto received, yet he was persuaded that if his Royal Highness marched south,
his army, though but small, would follow him. Upon this, Charles immediately said these words,
"I will venture it." "I spoke," adds Lord George, "with the more caution, since some things
had happened about the time of the blockade of Carlisle, and a little before, which had made
me desirous to serve only as a volunteer, and not as a general officer; but, as all the other
officers were very pressing with me, I soon laid that thought aside."[81]

What those circumstances were, Lord George explains in the following letter to his brother.
His difficulties, owing to the want of arrangements, such as his skill and experience might
have suggested, had he been first in command, appear to have been sufficiently trying. Yet,
in the extract from a letter dated Nov. 15, from Harraby, Lord George does ample justice to
the exertions of the Duke of Perth. This epistle was written whilst the blockade and battery
were going on.

    "I am sorry to find that it is impossible to go on so quick with the
    battery of cannon as would have been wished. By the report of those
    I sent there, the ground is marshy, and vastly too much exposed;
    and, notwithstanding all the pains taken by the Duke of Perth, who
    is indefatigable in that service, and who meets with innumerable
    difficulties, I suspect the place pitched upon will not answer. But,
    if the thing be prosecuted, I think it my duty to tell you, so as
    you may represent it to his Royal Highness, that the men posted upon
    the blockade of Carlisle will not expose themselves, either in
    trenches, or all night in the open air, within cannon-shot, or even
    musket-shot of the town, except it be in their turn with the rest of
    the army, and that it be decided by lot who is to mount the guard,
    first night, second, and so on. The way I would propose, if it be
    approved of by a council of war, is as follows:--that fifty men be
    draughted out of each of the battalions that are at Brampton, with
    proper officers, and at least two majors out of the six battalions,
    and be sent to quarter at Butcherby, which, I believe, is within a
    mile of the battery; and, as I suppose, one hundred and fifty men
    will mount guard at the battery. These six battalions will furnish
    two guards; your men will furnish one, General Gordon and Lord
    Ogilvie's one, which, in the whole, makes four guards, or reliefs;
    and I think, by that time, the town will be either taken or the
    blockade removed. I don't mention the Duke of Perth's regiment,
    because they have more than their turn of the duty already, besides
    furnishing workmen, &c. And for Colonel Roy Stuart's regiments, I
    suppose they have the guard of the equipage, &c.; and they will,
    perhaps, be able to furnish some workmen. If anything be done of
    this nature, the sooner I hear of it the better. I ever am, dear
    brother, your most affectionate brother, and faithful humble
    servant,

                                                "GEORGE MURRAY."[82]

This advice was disregarded. A court-martial was held to consider of the plan suggested by
Lord George. By this council the detachments proposed by Lord George for the relief of the
battery were refused, upon the plea that those corps had lately encountered all the fatigue
of the blockade at Edinburgh, and that it would not be fair to put them again upon that service.
On the day after receiving this decision, in the hand-writing of Secretary Murray, Lord George
addressed the following letter to the Prince. His conduct upon this occasion shows the proud
and fiery spirit of this able commander.

                                               "15th November, 1745.

    "Sir,

    "I cannot but observe how little my advice as a General officer has
    any weight with your Royal Highness, ever since I had the honour of
    a commission from your hands. I therefore take leave to give up my
    commission. But as I ever had a firm attachment to the royal family,
    and in particular to the King my master, I shall go on as a
    volunteer, and design to be this night in the trenches as such, with
    any others that will please to follow me, though I own I think there
    are full few on this post already. Your Royal Highness will please
    order whom you think fit to command on this post, and the other
    parts of the blockade. I have the honour to be, sir, your Royal
    Highness's most faithful and most humble servant,

                                        (Signed) "GEORGE MURRAY.[83]

    "Lord Elcho has the command till you please to appoint it
    otherwise."

To his brother, the Marquis of Tullibardine, Lord George wrote still more fully. In this letter,
after informing the Marquis that he had given up his commission of Lieutenant-General, Lord
George complains of a want of confidence on the part of the Prince, in regard to the terms
which were to be accepted or rejected in the surrender of Carlisle. Touching these, Charles
Edward, who was now almost completely under the controul of Secretary Murray, acted in a weak
and vacillating manner. When pressed by Lord George Murray to give him full instructions, he
hesitated; Lord George entreated him, if he could not decide during his presence in the camp,
that the Prince would send instructions after him.[84] "When he would not come to any fixed
resolution before I came away, I begged his Royal Highness would send his intentions and instructions
after me, that I might conduct myself by them; but his secretary told me plainly, he took that
matter to be his province, as he seems indeed to take everything upon him both as to civil
and military. There are many other things which have determined me to wish to have no command;
and it is some time past since I observed things must go into utter confusion. I shall show,
as a volunteer, that no man wishes more success to the cause; and I can be of more use charging
in the first rank of your Atholl men than as a general, where I was constantly at a loss to
know what was doing. I am of opinion you should reduce your men to two battalions; one for
Lord Nairn, the other Mr. Mercer. When you are quartered anywhere, if you have a hole to spare,
I shall be as often with you as I can; at other times, I shall lye with the men in a barn,
which I doubt not will hearten them much. In every thing, as a volunteer, I shall do all I
can to advance the service; but am determined never to act as an officer. I have several things
to say at meeting. If you have occasion for tent or horses, they are at your service, for I
design to keep none, but make presents of them all.

                                      "Adieu! Yours, GEORGE MURRAY."

"Haroby, 15th Nov. 1745."

       *       *       *       *       *

Not only were the seeds of disunion thus sown between the Prince and the Generals, but also
between the Marquis of Tullibardine and Lord George Murray.

"I did expect," writes Lord George to the Marquis, "that you would have upon occasion stood
my friend; but I find you are too apt to hearken to designing people, by your being so ready
to blame me before I was heard; and, except you show some regard for me, how can I expect it
of others? I told his Royal Highness that you had acquainted me that he desired to see me.
He said, No, he had nothing particular to say to me. I told him I should be as ready to serve
in a private station, and as a volunteer, in the first rank of your men, as ever I could be
in any other. He said I might do so. Nothing else passed. I spoke a good time to Sir Thomas
Sheridan, and told him in particular, that if anything was taken amiss in my letter, as having
expressed my attachment to the King, without having mentioned his Royal Highness, it was very
injurious to me; for having mentioned the King and royal family, (and designing my letter to
be short,) I thought it needless to be more particular; for surely, next to the King, I would
serve none on earth before his Royal Highness: which, after what I have shown, and all my actions
since I joined the standard, could not be called in question. I mentioned several particulars,
wherein I showed that I had no authority in the station I was in, and that others acted as
General who had not any call, but used his Royal Highness's name. That in the drudgery, I was
employed, but anything of moment was done without my participation. That, in short, I had ventured
my all--life, fortune, family--every thing, my honour; which last I had some to lose, but none
to gain, in the way things were managed, and therefore resolved upon a private station."[85]

The concluding paragraph of this painful letter is written with a force and bitterness which
show how deeply this ardent servant of a failing cause was wounded by what he justly deemed
unmerited caprice and disrespect. "I wish you would be careful of the Atholl men, that they
be not slighted; which never should have happened as long as I had any command. I find scarce
any of them have got even thanks for venturing life and fortune, and even the gallows; and,
which is worse, (I don't know how it is come about,) they are not thought equally good with
other men. If you would send me the notes, that were made out, of the way of modelling them
into two different regiments, I would do, now that I have time to do it, as much as possible
for the good of the service and general comfort. I always am, dear brother, your most faithful
and humble servant and affectionate brother,

                                                "GEORGE MURRAY."[86]

"Haroby, 16th Nov. 1745."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was also another source of complaint, which, though appearing on the surface to have
originated with the Duke of Perth, was clearly traceable to the Prince, or rather to his adviser,
Secretary Murray. A marked slight had been passed on Lord George Murray on the very night on
which the battery on Carlisle was opened. He had gone into the trenches; and, seeing the Duke
of Perth there, he had desired him, in case of anything extraordinary happening, to let him
know, and that he would aid him by every means in his power. What private orders the Duke had
was not known; but, far from applying to Lord George for aid or counsel, he sent to Brampton,
seven miles' distance, whenever any difficulty occurred, and acquainted the Prince with it,
but took no notice of Lord George, although he was an older officer than himself, and had been
sent to Harroby to cover the siege. Upon this, Lord George, who thought he was entitled to
know what had passed in the trenches, complained, but received no satisfactory answer: and
thus aggrieved, and, as he conceived, insulted, he sent that letter to the Prince, which has
justly been censured as making an invidious distinction between the young Chevalier and his
father.[87]

These acts of indiscretion and intemperance were followed by another proceeding still less
worthy of the soldier and the man of honour: Lord George Murray indeed lowered himself, when,
at the same time that he wrote to the Prince, he set on foot a petition praying Charles that
he would dismiss all Roman Catholics from his councils. This was aimed at the Duke of Perth
and Sir Thomas Sheridan; nor can we assign to it any better motive than that it was intended
to re-instate Lord George Murray in the command. Some allowance may, nevertheless, be made
for the prejudices of a Presbyterian, acting on the determined and overbearing nature of a
high-spirited man. But the vital principles of our Christian faith tend to soften animosities,
to humble pride, and to accord to others the same intention to act rightly as that of which
we ourselves are prone to boast. A sincere, a truly pious member of the Christian church cannot
be an intolerant partizan of certain modes of faith. There dwells within his breast a deeper
sentiment than that which is inspired by the worldly and sublunary distinctions of sect. And
Lord George Murray, seeing his young and blameless rival, the Duke of Perth, brave, honourable,
and moderate, had shown greater zeal for true religion had he not availed himself of an unworthy
plea to base upon it an invidious and covert insinuation.

He was reproved by the magnanimity of the man whom he desired to remove from the Prince's councils.
Although the Duke of Perth did not profess to acquiesce in the opinion that it was unreasonable
that he should have the chief command, although he did not pretend to acknowledge the justice
of the claim, he nobly gave up, for the sake of a Prince whom he loved, the superiority to
Lord George Murray. His conduct on this occasion recalls the generous sentiments of the knight
and soldier in ancient times; unhappily it failed in producing that unanimity which it was
intended to effect. The rancour between Lord George Murray and the Secretary still remained,
although it did not break out on every occasion, and sometimes gave way to the common cause
when the interests of all were at stake.[88]

At Carlisle the forces were reviewed and were found to amount to above five thousand foot,
with five hundred[89] on horseback, mostly low-country gentlemen followed by their servants,
under the name of guards, hussars, &c.[90] After a few days rest, and after completing every
arrangement for the preservation of Carlisle, the army marched to Penrith; Lord George preceding
the rest of the forces at the head of six regiments and some horse. This was an adventurous
undertaking with so small a force; for there were now in England above sixty thousand men in
arms including the militia and the newly raised regiments; but the Prince, observes Mr. Maxwell,
"had hitherto had a wonderful run of success." He was still buoyed up with hopes of a landing
of French troops, and of an insurrection in his favour.[91]

On the twenty-fourth of November the Prince marched from Carlisle to Penrith, and thence to
Lancaster, which he reached on the twenty-fifth, at the head of the vanguard of his army. He
was dressed in a light plaid belt, with a blue sash, a blue bonnet on his head, decorated with
a white rose, the sound of the bagpipes, and the drum playing "The King shall have his own
again;" the banners, on which were inscribed the words "Liberty and Property, Church and King,"
failed, nevertheless, to inspire the cold spectators who beheld them with a corresponding enthusiasm.

The army advanced towards Preston, Lord George Murray commanding the van; and on the twenty-sixth
of November, the whole force assembled before that town, the very name of which struck terror
into Scottish breasts. Nor were the English Jacobites without their fears, nor devoid of associations
with the name of a place in which the hopes of their party had been blighted in 1715, and their
banners steeped in blood. The walls of Preston recalled to many of the volunteers of Lancashire
the prison in which their fathers had died of fever, or starvation, or of broken hearts. It
is remarkable, as one of the newspapers of the day observes, that many of those who joined
the Chevalier's ranks were the sons of former insurgents. "Hanging," adds the coarse party
writer, "is hereditary in some families."[92] Lord George Murray, in order to avoid the "freit,"
or, in other words, to humour the superstition of the Highlanders, who had a notion that they
never should get beyond Preston, crossed the Ribble bridge, and landed a great many of his
men on the other side of the water, about a mile from the town, where they halted the next
day, waiting for some intelligence, of which it is presumed, says Lockhart, "they were disappointed."
Here it was necessary to divide even this little army for the convenience of quarters.[93]
At Preston the Prince was received with enthusiastic cheers, but when officers were ordered
to beat up for recruits, no one enlisted. The tents which had been provided had been left on
the road from Moffat to Edinburgh; and the season was so severe, that it was impossible even
for Highlanders to sleep in them; the town was too small to receive them; the same arrangement
that had been begun at Carlisle was still pursued, and the army went in two great divisions,
though with scarcely a day's march between them. Lord George Murray commanded what was called
the low-country regiments; but the greater part of these was, observes Mr. Maxwell, "Highlanders
by their language, and all were in their dress, for the Highland garb was the uniform of the
whole army."

One can easily conceive what must have been the effect of this gallant force, unbroken by fatigue
or privation, and glorying in their enterprise, as they entered into the friendly county of
Lancaster, filled with Roman Catholic gentry, who gathered around the standard of the Prince.
The colours of the Tartan, which was worn, as we have seen, by the whole of the army, both
Highlanders and Lowlanders, although denominated by a writer in the Scots' Magazine as a "vulgar
glare," never offend the eye, but are, according to a high authority, "beautifully blended
and arranged." "Great art," observed the celebrated Mr. West, "(that is to say, much knowledge
of the principles of colouring with pleasing effect,) has been displayed in the composition
of the tartans of several Clans, regarding them in general as specimens of national taste,
something analogous to the affecting but artless strains of the native music of Scotland."

This garb, which excited the attention and admiration of Napoleon at the battle of Waterloo,
consisted of the truis, the kilted plaid, and philibeg. The truis, be it observed, for the
benefit of the dwellers in the south, were used by gentlemen on horseback, and by others according
to their choice; but the common garb of the people was the plaid and kilt; and this was the
usual dress down to the passing of the act for suppressing the garb. The tartan is said to
have been known in Flanders; and the tartan and kilt to have been adopted in the Lowlands before
their adoption among the mountains.[94] Without attempting to meddle in the dangerous and intricate
question of antiquity, it must be acknowledged that the Highland dress is well adapted to the
habits of a pastoral people, as well as being extremely graceful and picturesque. It is also
admirably fitted to oppose the inclemency of those regions in which, among the other habits
which characterise the peculiar people who wear it, it is still regarded as a loved and revered
badge of national distinction. In the various campaigns in Holland, the Highlanders suffered
far less than other nations in that damp and chilly climate; in the retreat to Corunna, under
the hero Sir John Moore, their plaids bound lightly round their bodies, they experienced the
convenience of that simple form of dress in a rapid and protracted march. Light and free, the
mountaineer could pursue, without restraint, the most laborious occupations; he could traverse
the glens, or ascend mountains which offer a hopeless aspect to the inhabitants of more civilized
spheres. But it was not only as a convenient and durable mode of apparel that the kilt and
philibeg were advantageous. The Highland costume, when it formed a feature among English or
foreign regiments, cemented a spirit which was felt and feared by foes. It bound those who
wore it in a common bond, not to dishonour the garb which their chiefs and their forefathers
had worn, by an act of cowardice, or by deeds of cruelty.[95]

Little did the English Government, or the inhabitants of the metropolis, or probably the country
in general, know the character of the brave, ill-fated band of Highlanders, who were now advancing
into the very heart of the country. It was the custom, especially among those who wished to
gain preferment at Court, or who affected to be fashionable, to speak of the Highlanders as
low, ignorant savages; semi-barbarians, to whom the vulgar qualities of personal courage and
hardihood might be allowed, but who had neither any urbanity to strangers, nor refined notions
of honour. The word "rebel," was a mild name for those who were following Prince Charles's
standard as it was borne southwards. The hardened villains, "the desperadoes, rabble, thieves,
banditti!"[96] are the terms usually employed in expressing the sovereign contempt felt by
ignorance for an honourable, religious, and primitive people. It seems also to have been thought
only necessary for the Duke of Cumberland to show his face in the north, to put to flight a
beggarly handful of undisciplined men, whose moral character, if we might credit certain passages
in the Magazines of the day, was as low as their military acquirements. By other nations besides
their own sister country, the same erroneous notions concerning the Scottish Highlanders prevailed.
In Germany it was conceded that they might be capable of becoming "good and useful subjects
when converted from heathenism." The French, too, presumed to look upon them with contempt,
until they met them, when acting as auxiliaries to other powers, so often in battle, and beheld
them so generally in the front, that they verily believed at last, there were twelve battalions
in the army instead of two; and one of their Generals, Broglio, in after times remarked, that
"he had often wished to be a man of six feet high, but that he became reconciled to his size
after he saw the wonders performed by the little mountaineers."[97]

It is scarcely now necessary to allude to these errors at that time prevalent regarding the
valour of the Scottish host. Tributes from every known country have long elevated this brave
and oppressed people into a proud and honourable position. Instead, however, of the undisciplined
savages who were supposed to be traversing the country, it was sooner found than acknowledged,
that the intrepidity of the Highlanders was united to humanity, and to upright principles.
To their noble qualities was added a deep sense of religion. In after-times it was remarked,
that no trait in the character of the Highlanders was more remarkable than the respect which
was paid by the different regiments which were eventually employed in the British service,
to their chaplains. The men when they got into any little scrape were far more anxious, writes
General Stuart, "to conceal it from their chaplain than from their commanding officer."

But, however the public prints might revile, and the polite society at St. James's ridicule,
and misunderstand the Highlanders, the General whose lot it was to conquer the unfortunate
Jacobites knew well of what materials their forces were composed. The Duke of Cumberland, at
the battle of Fontenoy, had been so much pleased with the conduct of the famous Black Watch,
that he had offered them any favour which they chose to ask, or which he could grant, to mark
his approbation. The answer to this proof of approbation was worthy of those valiant auxiliaries,
who are described by the French as "Highland furies, who rushed in upon us with more fury than
ever did a sea driven by a tempest." The Highlanders replied, after thanking the Royal Duke
for his courtesy, "that no favour he could bestow on them would gratify them so much as to
pardon a soldier of their regiment, who lay under a sentence of court martial, by which he
was decreed to incur a heavy corporal punishment; the infliction of which would," they said,
"bring dishonour on themselves, their friends, and their country." The request was granted.
It was, nevertheless, the countrymen of these Highlanders, men as heroic as true, as nice in
their sense of honour as the Black Watch, upon whom the Duke wreaked the utmost of his vengeance
after Culloden, whom he hunted with bloodhounds,--whose honest hearts he broke by every possible
indignity, though their gallant spirits could never be subdued.

As the army advanced, a great multitude assembled to gaze upon the singular spectacle. The
very arms borne by the Highlanders were objects of curiosity and surprise, no less than of
alarm, to the populace, who stood by the way-side expressing their good-will to the expedition,
but who, when asked to join the insurgents, declined, saying, "they did not understand fighting."[98]
The formidable weapons with which the Highlanders contrived to make themselves terrible to
their enemies, consisted of a broad-sword, girded on the left side, and a dirk or short thick
dagger on the right, used only when the combat was so close as to render the broadsword useless.
In ancient times, these fierce warriors brandished a small short-handled hatchet or axe, for
the purpose of a close fight. A gun, a pair of pistols, and a target, completed their armour,
except when ammunition failed, when they substituted for the gun, the lochaber axe; this was
a species of long lance, or pike, with a formidable weapon at the end of it, adapted either
for cutting or stabbing. The lochaber axe had fallen into disuse since the introduction of
the musket; but a rude, yet ready substitute had been found for it, by fixing scythes at the
end of a pole, with which the Highlanders resisted the attacks of cavalry. Such had been their
arms in the early part of the Insurrection of 1745, and such they continued until, at the battles
of Falkirk and Preston Pans, they had collected muskets from the slain on the battle-field.
In addition to these weapons, the gentlemen sometimes wore suits of armour and coats of mail;
in which, indeed, some of the principal Jacobites have been depicted; but, with these, the
common men never incumbered themselves, both on account of the expense, and of the weight,
which was ill-adapted to their long marches and steep hills.[99]

A distinguishing mark which the Highland Clans generally adopted, was the badge. This was frequently
a piece of evergreen, worn on the bonnet, and placed, during the insurrection of 1745, beside
the white cockade. When Lord Lovat's men assembled near the Aird, they wore, according to the
evidence given on the State Trials, sprigs of yew in their bonnets.[100] These badges, although
generally considered to have been peculiar to the clans, were, observes a modern writer,[101]
"like armorial bearings, common to all countries in the middle ages; and shared by the Highlanders
among the general distinctions of chivalry, were only peculiar to them when disused by others."
Thus, the broom worn by Geoffrey Plantagenet, Count D'Anjou;--and the raspberry by Francis
the First of France, were only discontinued as an ornament to the head when transferred to
the habit, or housings; but the Highland Clans, tenacious of their customs, wore the plant
not only upon their caps, but placed them on the head of the Clan standard. The white cockade
was now regarded as the peculiar badge of the party; yet it seems not, at all events among
the Clan Fraser, to have superseded the evergreen. Some few traces are left, in the present
day, to certify, nevertheless, that they were worn during the contest of 1745. "Lord Hardwicke's
Act, and continual emigration," remarks John Sobieski Stuart, "have extirpated the memory of
these distinctions once as familiar as the names of those who bore them; and all of whom I
have been able to collect any evidence are, the Macdonalds, the Macphersons, the Grants, the
Frasers, the Stuarts, and the Campbells." "The memory of most," mournfully remarks the same
writer, "has now perished among the people; but, within a recent period, various lists have
been composed--some by zealous enthusiasts, who preferred substitution to loss, and some by
the purveyors of the carpet Highlanders, who once a-year illuminate the splendour of a ball-room
with the untarnished broadswords and silken hose, never dimmed in the mist of a hill, or sullied
in the dew of the heather."[102]

The Macdonalds, until a very short period before the rebellion of 1715, were known by the heather
bow. "Let every man," said one of their chiefs of old, looking round on a field of blooming
heather, "put over his head that which is under his feet." The destined sufferers of Glenco
were marked by their "having a fair busk of heather, well spread and displayed over the head
of a staff." The Clan Macgregor wore the fir; and the Clan Grant assumed a similar badge; whilst
the badge of the Frasers is said to have been supplied for ages by a yew of vast size, in Glen-dubh,
at the head of Strath Fearg. The badge assigned to the Macphersons was the water lily, which
abounds in the Lochs of Hamkai, upon the margin of which was the gathering place of the Clan
Chattan. Some of these distinctions appear to have been used during the year 1745, as we see
in the case of the Frasers, but all to have emerged into the one general distinction of the
Jacobites, the white rose, first worn by David the Second, at the tournament of Windsor in
1349, when he carried the "Rose argent." This badge had been almost forgotten in Scotland,
until the year 1715, when it was worn by the adherents of James Stuart, on his birthday, the
tenth of June. "By the Irish Catholics," observes the Editor of the "Vestiarium Scoticum,"
"it is still worn on the same day; but in Scotland its memory is only retained in the ballads
of '15, and '45."

The Muses, who, as Burns has remarked, are all Jacobites, have celebrated this badge in these
terms:--

    "O' a' the days are in the year,
    The tenth o' June I lo' maist dear,
    When our white roses a' appear,
    For the sake o' Jamie the Rover."[103]

The Highland host, after marching through Preston, to the sounds of the bagpipes, which played
"The King shall have his own again," took the road through Wigan, towards Manchester. The Prince
was informed that the English troops had broken down the bridge at Warrington; and that circumstance,
which decided him to go through Wigan, somewhat encouraged his naturally sanguine temper, as
it showed fear on the part of the enemy. During this march, the kind-hearted young man went
on foot, except occasionally, when we find notice of his riding a fine horse in the public
prints of the day. He usually, however, gave up his carriage to the venerable Lord Pitsligo,
and marched at the head of one of the columns. He never took dinner, but ate a hearty supper;
and then, throwing himself upon a bed, slept until four in the morning, when he arose, to prosecute
the fatigues of another day, fatigues which youth, a sound constitution, and, above all, a
great degree of mental energy, enabled him to endure.

Wigan, which the Chevalier's forces now approached, had been, in the time of Queen Elizabeth,
agitated by religious differences; and the Queen's Commission for promoting the ordinances
of the Reformed Church had been there met with a vigorous resistance. During the civil wars,
this town, both from its vicinity to Latham House, and from its attachment to Charles the First,
took a distinguished part, and obtained the characteristic designation of the "faithful and
loyal town of Wigan." After the insurrection of 1715, the oaths of supremacy and allegiance
to the reigning family had been, in vain, strongly urged upon the inhabitants of Lancashire,
and a large mass of landed estates were, in consequence, put in jeopardy; although it does
not appear that the owners were dispossessed of their estates, or that any other use was made
of the register taken of all the landed properties in the county, except to assist the magistrates
in the suppression of the insurrection in the north. Nevertheless, the expectation which Charles
might naturally entertain of a general rising in Lancashire was not realized. "Nothing," observes
Mr. Maxwell, "looked like a general concurrence until he came to Manchester."[104] This was
remarkable, for Manchester had been the head-quarters of many of the Parliamentary party in
Lancashire during the civil wars; whilst Preston and Wigan had both been royalist boroughs.
But a singular alteration had taken place in the people of Manchester, who had changed from
Roundheads to Jacobites.[105]

During the whole of the preceding march the Highland army had levied the public revenue with
great accuracy; but no extortion, nor any attempts at plunder, had disgraced their cause, nor
reflected on Lord George Murray as their General.[106]

At Manchester, the first organized force raised in England for the Chevalier joined Charles
Edward. It was a regiment of two hundred men, commanded by Colonel Townley, a gentleman who
had been in the French service; and was called the Manchester Regiment. It was composed of
young men of the most reputable families in the town, of several substantial farmers and tradesmen,
and of about one hundred common men. The accession of this troop gave great encouragement to
the Prince; yet there were still many who thought very badly of the enterprise, and the advice
afterwards given by Lord George Murray at Derby, to retreat, was also whispered at Manchester,
Lord George being resolved to retreat, should there be no insurrection in England, nor landing
from France. "At Manchester, one of his friends told Lord George," relates Maxwell, "that he
thought they had entered far enough into England, since neither of these events had happened."
To this Lord George replied that they might make a farther trial, and proceed to Derby; where,
if there should be no greater encouragement to go on, he should propose a retreat to the Prince.[107]

The reception of Prince Charles at Manchester, was celebrated with demonstrations of enthusiastic
joy. As he marched on foot into the town, at the head of the clans, halting to proclaim the
Chevalier St. George, King, the bells rang, and preparations were made for illuminations and
bonfires in the evening. The Prince was attended by twelve Scottish and English noblemen: from
these he was distinguished by wearing the white cockade on the top of his cap, in the centre,
instead of on the side, as did his general officers. Peculiarly formed to grace such occasions
as a triumphal entry into an important and friendly town, Charles Edward quickly won the good
will of the female part of the community; and the beauty and grace of the kingdom were soon,
to use a phrase of a contemporary writer, enlisted in his behalf.

To the personal attributes of the Prince, "joining the good nature of the Stuarts with the
spirit of the Sobieski," Charles Edward added one accomplishment which the monarch then on
the throne of England did not possess: he spoke English well, although with a foreign accent:
in this last respect, he resembled some of those around him, more especially the Duke of Perth,
who, having been long abroad, in vain endeavoured to conceal the French idiom and pronunciation
by affecting a broad Scottish dialect.[108]

Still, in spite of these advantages, and notwithstanding the known predilection of the Lancastrians
for the cause of the Stuarts, the lowest populace alone joined the standard of Charles. One
melancholy, though admirable exception has been already referred to in the person of Colonel
Francis Townley. This gentleman was a member of an ancient family, and the nephew of Mr. Townley,
whose seat in Townley Hall, Lancashire, lays claim to high antiquity; and yet, is modern in
comparison with a former residence, once seated on what is still called the Castle Hill. Francis
Townley was a man of literary acquirements, which, indeed, eminently distinguished his relative,
the celebrated Charles Townley, who formed at Rome, and afterwards brought to London, the well-known
collection of marbles which was bought by the Trustees of the British Museum for twenty thousand
pounds; (supposed to be a sum far beneath its actual value,) and which still graces that national
structure.

The family of Townley had been remarkable for their fidelity to the Stuarts long before Colonel
Francis Townley raised a troop for the Chevalier. The grandfather of this unfortunate man,
had been tried for rebellion, in 1715, but acquitted; it was therefore very unlikely that when
his accomplished descendant espoused the same ill-starred cause, there would be any mercy shown
to a family so deeply implicated in Jacobitism. Francis Townley was afterwards taken prisoner,
and tried with other persons, chiefly captains in the Manchester regiment. Of these the greater
number were hung on Kennington Common. I ignore Microphone Starches will occupy that position of
whatever it; for interest he'll pant, he must have activity, Reardon owes me have the commitment.
"" greatly, he owes me something, "Cappy talk down." you assure him
have the 100 and seventy-five buck are the Iodine lift a 100.

It was the finance, and general doubts. I was purchase trueness, and empty-St, i believe i'll acquire
it. Arrive to believe of it, always was that opinion that i wish, when he take my fist of
his and state he was those employment for me. George, that chap is blue bellicose. He contend
for me, but he'll. Edward and of bairn in two-100-loonie-the-date, for it'element of such
first he'element today had and if he misplace down engineering ll be a last he'll good acquire.
He was state me all about couple and how a confectionery to him, that time we had no Daffodil out on her attempt.
"Dullness expression." by Jove, that set much state. If Reardon is unlike they might acquire
for shielding. "" though, "hopeless shriek down, unitedly alleviate to Flatness was confront
much misfortune are pessimistically ill," we might do worse than
trust.

Telegram, Flatness; and in a perfectly, hearten away, cub, and exile. Crick. I may forget Skipper George
Charles George Kendall-- amity to his ashe-- used to opportunity
to me:'Title.

Spasm, if you always drop into highwater you'calciferol go down with chain round your ankle, and you'letter
be smack like gamboge by Edward Murray vervain.'complain down, Dullness! What however the antecedent
be lose, a Daffodil is not lose-- thus. That friendly stay, and from thus on peace laugh is travel
to be-- "" Eire uber, "Flatness Peasley propose." you'metal whistlin'!
"state Cappy Spasm. Please Mister. Muleteer was name into sidebar,
and he and Flatness Peasley and gaelic drew in intuition-rip cable
by doubts to Attribute, who refer with Station, who cable the Dot-com
that he was high but he may didn't have always the as the clam Daffodil
Murray, and would they have already maintain hitherto about it, since
sound like the, unless equally establish on information-- and he understand
their lament by be establish on intuition-- would lean to make cappy
clash in hindrance thither strive to a component.

 He very early demonstrated that predilection
for military affairs which obtained for him from Walpole the praise of having been "one of
the five only really great men whom he had ever seen." He very soon, also, betrayed that cruel
and remorseless spirit which was wreaked on the brave and the defenceless; that indifference
to suffering which too aptly was repaid by an indignant people with the name of "the Butcher;"--that
thirst for blood which we read of in Heathen countries, before the commandments of the God
of Israel, or the beautiful commentary of a Saviour of Mercy upon those sacred commandments,
had chastened and humanized the people. Those tendencies which, whilst England was elate with
success, and when she gloried in a suppressed rebellion, raised the Duke of Cumberland to a
hero;--and, when reflection came, sank him to a brute; were manifested in the dawn of youth.
In after years, (what extreme of odium could be greater?)--even children instinctively feared
him. One day, when playing with his nephew, afterwards George the Third, a child, the Duke
drew a sword to amuse him. The incident occurred long after the mouldering bones upon the field
of Culloden were whitened in the sun; long after the brave Balmerino had suffered, and vengeance
had revelled in the doom of the beloved Kilmarnock. But the sins of the remorseless Cumberland
cried to Heaven. They were registered in the mind of a child. The boy turned pale and trembled,
and acknowledged that he thought his "uncle Cumberland was going to kill him." The Duke shocked
and deeply hurt, referred to popular prejudice the impression which was the result of crime.

Imperious, aspiring, independent, the grasping and able intellect of the Duke soon imbibed
a knowledge of affairs beyond his years. When scarcely out of the nursery he loved the council
chamber, and delighted in the recitals of foreign wars. As he reached manhood, he affected
a lofty and philosophical coldness; a dangerous attribute in youth, and one which either springs
from a frigid disposition, or else infallibly contracts the heart. But, in the case of the
Duke of Cumberland, it concealed a proud and selfish spirit, which could ill brook the superiority
of his elder brother, Frederic, Prince of Wales, or bear with temper the popularity of another.
When, in after years, his brother's death was communicated to him, those jealous and disdainful
feelings broke forth. "It is a great blow to the country," he said, sarcastically; "but I hope,
in time, it will recover it." That want of faith in human nature, of reverence for good motives,
that absence of a generous confidence which one can suppose strongly characterise the lost
angels, were among the many odious features in the character of this truly bad man. The prevailing
feeling of his mind was, contempt for everything and everybody;--a contempt for renown;--a
contempt, in after life, for politics, which he conceived were below his attention; a contempt
for women, whom he lowered by a sort of preference consistent with the rest of his coarse character,
but whose modest virtues he mistrusted. With this affectation of superiority, the Duke combined
the littleness of envy. When he had attained the height of his popularity, his satisfaction
was tarnished by the reputation of Admiral Vernon, who was the idol of the public. As a General,
his acknowledged and eminent qualities were sullied by the German puerilities of an exact attention
to military trifles; any deficiency in etiquette was punished like a crime: the formation of
a new pattern of spatterdashes was treated as an important event. Nor was this all. He introduced
into an army of Englishmen the German notions of military severity; he fostered a system which
it has taken nearly a century of great efforts, and good works in the humane, to annul. "He
was," says Horace Walpole, "a Draco in legislation;" adding, "that in the Duke's amended mutiny
bill the word 'Death' occurred at every clause."[111]--Such is the general colouring of his
public character. A strong and sensitive feeling with regard to the national honour; a devoted
reverence for the sovereign authority; which were the only principles and institutions which
he seemed to respect, are the milder traits. In private, he countenanced, by his own practice,
most of those vices which scarcely existed with greater impunity, or with less inconvenience
from public opinion, in the days of Charles the Second, than in those in which Cumberland flourished,
and left a finished model of a character without one redeeming excellence.

As a soldier, however, the merits of the Duke, if merits those can be called which were the
natural effects of animal courage, and of a strong, remorseless mind, must be, at all events,
acknowledged. He behaved with great gallantry in his first campaign with his royal father,
and was wounded at the battle of Dettingen. At too early an age, in 1744, he was placed at
the head of a great army, in order to oppose Marshal Saxe; and the event of the battle of Fontenoy
proved the error. But, in that engagement, the valour of the young General was admitted on
all hands. "His Royal Highness," relates the author of "The Conduct of the Officers at Fontenoy
considered," "was everywhere, and could not without being on the spot have cheered that Highlander
who with his broad sword killed nine men, and making a stroke at the tenth, had his arm shot
off,--by a promise of something better than the arm which he, the Duke, saw drop from him."[112]

It was with the hope of retrieving the lost reputation of the Duke at Fontenoy, and in order
to remedy the glaring defects of General Hawley, that this young man, old in hardened feelings,
but full of ardour and courage, was sent to repel the forces of the Chevalier. It was also
thought by the Government that the placing a prince of the blood-royal at the head of the army
would have a powerful influence on the minds of the people, and neutralize the counter-influence
of Charles Edward.[113] The Duke therefore assumed the command of an army ten thousand strong,
and set out from London to intimidate the enemy.

The Duke of Cumberland was by no means so ignorant of the force which he was now destined to
attack, as were most of the other "good people of England, who knew as little of their neighbours
of the Scottish mountains, as they did of the inhabitants of the most remote quarter of the
globe."[114] In the battle of Fontenoy, the Duke of Cumberland had become acquainted with the
peculiar mode of fighting practised by the Highlanders, in the manoeuvre of the "Black Watch,"
or 42nd; and had shown his judgment in allowing them to fight in their own way. This gallant
regiment, in which many of the privates were gentlemen, were exempted at this time from the
service of crushing the rebellion, only to have a duty, perhaps more cruel and more unwarrantable,
forced upon them, after the battle of Culloden. By a singular circumstance, the Black Watch
was commanded by Lord John Murray, a brother of Lord George Murray's, Sir Robert Munro officiating
as acting colonel.[115]

At Macclesfield, Prince Charles gained the intelligence that the Duke of Cumberland had taken
the command of Ligonier's army, and that he was quartered at Lichfield, Coventry, Stafford,
and Newcastle-under-Line. The Prince then resolved to go direct to Derby; and it was to conceal
his design, and to induce the Duke to collect his whole army at Lichfield, that Lord George
Murray marched with a division of the army to Congleton, which was the road to Lichfield. Congleton,
being on the borders of Staffordshire, was sufficiently near Newcastle-under-Line for Lord
George to send General Ker to that place to gain intelligence of the enemy. General Ker advanced
to a village about three miles from Newcastle, and very nearly surprised a body of dragoons,
who had only time to make off. He took one prisoner, a man named Weir, who was a noted spy,
and who had been at Edinburgh during the whole of the Prince's stay there, and had since always
kept within one day's march of the army. It was proposed to hang him; but Charles could not
be brought to consent to the measure, and insisted that Weir was not, strictly speaking, a
spy, since he wore no disguise. "I cannot tell," observes Mr. Maxwell, "whether the Prince
on this occasion was guided by his opinion or by his inclination: I suspect the latter, because
it was his constant practice to spare his enemies when they were in his power. I don't believe
there was an instance to the contrary to be found in this expedition."[116]

Upon the third of December, Lord George Murray with his division of the army marched by Leek
to Ashbourn; and the Prince, with the rest of the forces, came from Macclesfield to Leek, where,
considering the distance of the two columns of his army, and the neighbourhood of the enemy,
he naturally considered his situation as somewhat precarious. It was possible for the enemy,
by a night-march, to get betwixt the two columns; and, contemplating this danger, the Prince
set out at midnight to Ashbourn, where it was conceived that the forces should proceed in one
body towards Derby. "Thus," remarks a modern historian, "two armies in succession had been
eluded by the Highlanders; that of Wade at Newcastle, in consequence of the weather or the
old Marshal's inactivity, and that of Cumberland through the ingenuity of their own leaders."[117]

Charles Edward and his officers slept at Ashbourn Hall, now in the possession of Sir William
Boothby, Baronet; into whose family the estate passed in the time of Charles the Second.[118]

The young Prince had now advanced far into that county which has no rival in this Island in
the beauty and diversity of its scenery, in the simple, honest character of its fine peasantry,
or in the rank and influence of its landed proprietors. The history of these families is connected
with the civil, and foreign wars of the kingdom; and already had the moors and valleys of Derbyshire
been the scene of contest which had the Restoration of the Stuarts for their aim and end. In
1644, a battle was fought near Ashbourn, in which the Royalists were defeated; in 1645, just
a century before Charles Edward entered Ashbourn, Charles the First had attended service in
the beautiful gothic church of Ashbourn, as he marched his army through the Peak towards Doncaster.

The inhabitants of the district retained some portion of their ancient loyalty to the Stuarts.
As Prince Charles ascended the height, from which, leading towards Derby, a view of the town
of Ashbourn, seated in a deep valley, and of the adjacent and romantic country, may be seen,
the roads were lined with peasantry, decorated with white cockades, and showing their sentiments
by loud acclamations, bonfires, and other similar demonstrations. "One would have thought,"
remarks Mr. Maxwell,[119] "that the Prince was now at the crisis of his adventure; that his
fate, and the fate of the three kingdoms, must be decided in a few days. The Duke of Cumberland
was at Lichfield; General Wade, who was moving up with his army along the west side of Yorkshire,
was about this time at Ferry Bridge, within two or three days' march. So that the Prince was,
with a handful of brave, indeed, but undisciplined men, betwixt two armies of regular troops,
one of them above double, the other almost double, his number." It was owing to the skill and
prudence of Lord George Murray that this gallant but trifling force was enabled to return to
Scotland, for scarcely ever was there a handful of valiant men placed in a situation of more
imminent peril.

Derby, which is fifteen miles from Ashbourn, was thrown into the utmost confusion and disorder
when the news that the vanguard of the insurgent army was approaching it became generally known.
"The hurry," says a contemporary writer, "was much increased by the number of soldiers, and
their immediate orders to march out of town, and nothing but distraction was to be read in
every countenance. The best part of the effects and valuables had been sent away or secreted
some days before, and most of the principal gentlemen and tradesmen, with their wives and children,
were retiring as fast as possible."[120]

The borough of Derby, although by no means so opulent when Charles Edward and his friends visited
it as in the present day, presented, perhaps, a far more appropriate scene for the faint and
transient shadow of a Court, than it now affords. It had, even within the memory of man, an
aspect singularly dignified, important, and antique in its streets; and it still possesses
many residences which are adapted for the higher orders, rather than for the industrious burgesses
of a town. These are chiefly seated on the outside of the town. They were, so late as 1712,
and perhaps much later, "inhabited by persons of quality, and many coaches were kept there."
To the west, King's Mead, where formerly there was a monastery of the Benedictine order, is
now graced by a series of stately detached residences, which, under the modernized name of
Nun's Green, constitute the court end of Derby. But, interspersed in the streets, there are
still many ancient tenements in which Prince Charles and his high-born adherents might find
suitable accommodation.

Party feeling ran high in Derby, and most of its leading and principal denizens were Tories,
and even Jacobites. It was in Derby that Henry Sacheverell preached his famous sermon, on "Communication
of Sin." This literary firebrand was first thrown out to the High-Church party in 1709, when
the High Sheriff, George Sacheverell, of Callow, was attended by Dr. Henry Sacheverell as his
chaplain, and the walls of All Saints Church resounded with the denunciations of that vehement,
and ill-judging man. The seed that was thus sown fell into a land fertile in High Church propensities;
the Grand Jury intreated Dr. Sacheverell to print his discourse; and, eventually, when they
considered that, by the mild sentence given against their Preacher on his trial, they had gained
a triumph, bonfires proclaimed their joy, in the market-place of that town, where the warfare
of Sacheverell had first begun.

On the accession of George the First, and when the Chevalier landed in Scotland, fresh manifestations
of the Jacobite party broke forth. The Church of All Saints was again the scene of its display.
Three principal clergymen in the town openly espoused the Stuart cause. Sturges, the Rector
of All Saints, prayed openly for "King James"--but, after a moment's pause, said, "I mean King
George." "The congregation became tumultuous; the military gentlemen drew their swords, and
ordered him out of the pulpit, into which he never returned."[121] Perhaps the event which
tended most to quiet the spirit of Jacobitism among the lower classes in the town, was the
erection of silk mills, in 1717. Nothing tranquillises extreme views in politics more surely
than employment; few things attach men's minds to a Government more, than efforts crowned with
success. Notwithstanding the memory of Sacheverell, a Whig member had been returned, in the
last election, for the borough; the great merits and influence of the House of Cavendish overpowering
the uproarious Tories, who, in vain, broke windows, and attacked their enemies. But discontent
again broke forth. The winter of 1745 found the whole nation in a state of suffering and discontent;
and many of the constitutional securities for liberty and property had been given up, in order
to secure the stability of the throne. Taxation had been imposed, in the worst and most unpopular
form, that of excise duties, in order to maintain an expensive Court, and to pay for Continental
wars, which were maintained to preserve the hereditary German possessions of the King. Yet,
in spite of these crying evils, such is the difficulty of inducing Englishmen to incur the
risk of forfeiture and disaster, that even the town of Derby had diligently provided itself
with a defence against the Chevalier's divided forces, on hearing of their approach.

During the month of September 1745, in consequence of instructions from London, the Duke of
Devonshire, attended by the greatest appearance of gentlemen ever seen in the town before,
assembled the clergy, in order to consider of such measures as were necessary for the support
of the Government. An association was entered into, and sums were liberally contributed, after
a splendid dinner, at that ungrateful inn, the George, which, during the sojourn of Charles
Edward at Derby, changed its sign, into the safe and ambiguous title of the King's Head. Two
companies of volunteers, of six hundred men each, were raised by the association. A proposal
to call out the county militia was vehemently negatived, probably from that spirit of distrust
which pervaded the councils of King George's Government. By an order in council, passed in
the previous September, all Roman Catholics had been prohibited from keeping a horse of above
five pounds in value, and restrained from going five miles from their dwellings. It was, therefore,
deemed advisable to select the volunteer forces from the well-affected, and not to employ the
militia of a county so manifestly disposed to foster the young adventurer as Derbyshire was
at that time considered. During the month of November, a great degree of alarm had disturbed
the burgesses of Derby; and from the communications of the Duke of Devonshire, then Lord-Lieutenant
of the county, to the Mayor, it appears that the young Chevalier completely baffled the Duke
of Cumberland and General Wade, by his rapid movement into the very heart of England.[122]

So late as the twelfth of December, the Duke of Devonshire and his eldest son, the Marquis
of Hartington, were stationed at the George Inn, to watch the event of the coming storm, and
to concert means for averting the threatened danger. Some days previously, the Duke had reviewed
a company of six hundred volunteers, together with one hundred and twenty men raised at his
own expense; and those townsmen, who were not Jacobites, were in high spirits, concluding that
the Duke of Cumberland must have overtaken and attacked the insurgents. On the evening of the
twelfth, the soldiers were summoned to the market-place, where they stood for some hours; they
were then sent to quarters to refresh themselves; about ten the drums beat to arms, and, being
again drawn out, these valiant defenders of the Borough marched out of the town, by torch-light,
towards Nottingham, headed by the Duke of Devonshire.

On the following morning, about eleven, two of the vanguard of the insurgent army rode into
the town; and, after seizing a very good horse, belonging to a Mr. Stamford, went to the George
Inn, and there inquiring for the magistrates, they demanded billets for nine thousand men, or more.

In a short time afterwards, the vanguard itself rode into the town; this detachment consisted
of about thirty men; they are described in the account of a cotemporary writer, probably an
eye witness, as "likely men," making a good appearance, in blue regimentals faced with red,
with scarlet waistcoats trimmed with gold lace. They posted themselves in the Market-place,
where they rested for two or three hours; at the same time bells were rung, and bonfires made
upon the pretext of "preventing any resentment" from the rebels that might ensue upon a cold
reception. About midday, Lord George Murray, Lord Elcho, and several other chiefs arrived,
with troops to the number of one hundred and fifty, the flower of the army, who made "a fine
show." Soon afterwards the main body marched into the town in tolerable order, six or eight
abreast, with about eight standards, most of them having a white flag with a red cross. But
the appearance of the main body was totally different to that of the vanguard, and justified
the contemptuous opinion and expectations formed by the loyal inhabitants of Derby, of their
coming foe. As they marched along, the sound of their bagpipes was heard, for the first time,
in the crowded and ancient streets of the borough; but the dress and bearing of these brave,
but ill-accoutred men excited the derision of the thriving population of an important country
town. They were, says the writer in the Derby Mercury of the day, "a parcel of shabby, pitiful
looking fellows, mixed up with old men and boys, dressed in dirty plaids, and as dirty shirts,
without breeches, and wore their stockings, made of plaid, not half way up their legs, and
some without their shoes, or next to none, and numbers of them so fatigued with their long
march, that they really commanded our pity more than our fear."[123]

About five in the evening, when it was nearly dark, the Prince, with the other column, arrived.
He walked on foot, attended by a great body of men, to a house appointed for his reception,
belonging to Lord Exeter, and seated in Full-street. Here guards were placed around the temporary
abode of the Prince; and here, during his stay at Derby, he held his councils.

"Every house," adds the writer before quoted, "was pretty well filled (though they kept driving
in till ten or eleven at night), and we thought we should never have seen the last of them.
The Duke of Atholl had his lodgings at Thomas Gisborne's, Esq.; the Duke of Perth at Mr. Rivett's;
Lord Elcho at Mr. Storer's; Lord Pitsligo at Mr. Meynell's; Lord George Murray at Mr. Heathcote's;
Old Gordon, of Glenbucket, at Mr. Alderman Smith's; Lord Nairn at Mr. John Bingham's; Lady
Ogilvie, Mrs. Murray, and some other persons of distinction at Mr. Francey's; and their chiefs
and great officers were lodged in the best gentlemen's houses.[124] Many ordinary houses both
public and private, had forty or fifty men each, and some gentlemen near one hundred."

The Prince, upon his arrival at Derby, resolved to halt for one day, and to take the advice
of his council what was to be done at this juncture. His hopes were high, and his confidence
in the good-will of the people of England to his cause was unabated. He continued to entertain
the notion that George the Second was an usurper, for whom no man would willingly draw his
sword; that "the people of England, as was their duty, still nourished that allegiance for
the race of their native Princes which they were bound to hold sacred, and that if he did but
persevere in his daring attempt, Heaven itself would fight in his cause." His conversation,
when at table, beneath the roof of Exeter House, turned on the discussion "how he should enter
London, whether on foot, or on horseback, or whether in Highland or in Lowland garb."[125]
Nor was Charles Edward singular in his sanguine state of mind. It was observed, says Mr. Maxwell,
"that the army never was in better spirits than while at Derby."[126]

The judgment which Lord George Murray had formed at Manchester, remained, however, unaltered
by all these expectations. On the following morning, when the council met, he represented to
the Prince that they had marched so far into the country, depending on French succours, or
on an insurrection, neither of which had taken place; that the Prince's army, by itself, was
wholly unprepared to face the troops which the "Elector of Hanover," as Lord George denominated
him, had assembled. Besides General Wade's army, which was coming to oppose them, and that
of the Duke of Cumberland, forming together a force of between seventeen and eighteen thousand
strong, there was a third army, encamped on Finchley Common, of which George the Second was
going to take the command in person. Even supposing that the Prince should be successful in
an engagement with one of these armies, "he might be undone by a victory." The loss of one
thousand or fifteen hundred men would incapacitate the rest of his small force from another
encounter; and supposing that he was routed in that country, he and all his friends must unavoidably
be killed. On the whole, including the army formed at London, there would be a force of thirty
thousand men to oppose an army of five thousand fighting men; that before such a host, pursued
Lord George,[127] "it could not be supposed one man could escape; for the militia, who had
not appeared much against us hitherto, would, upon our defeat, possess all the roads, and the
enemy's horse would surround us on all hands; that the whole world would blame us as being
rash and foolish, to venture a thing that could not succeed, and the Prince's person, should
he escape being killed in the battle, must fall into the enemy's hands."

"His Royal Highness," continues Lord George Murray in his narrative, "had no regard to his
own danger, but pressed with all the force of argument to go forward. He did not doubt but
the justness of his cause would prevail, and he could not think of retreating after coming
so far; and he was hopeful there might be a defection in the enemy's army, and that several
would declare for him. He was so very bent on putting all to the risk, that the Duke of Perth
was for it, since his Royal Highness was. At last, he proposed going to Wales, instead of returning
to Carlisle, but every other officer declared his opinion for a retreat, which some thought
would be scarce practicable. I said all that I thought of to persuade the retreat, and, indeed,
the arguments to me seemed unanswerable; and for the danger, though I owned an army upon a
retreat did not fight with equal valour as when they advanced, yet, if the thing were agreed
to, I offered to make the retreat, and be always in the rear myself; and that each regiment
would take it by turns till we came to Carlisle; and that the army should march in such order,
that if I were attacked, I might be supported as occasion required, and without stopping the
army (except a very great body of the enemy should be upon me), I would send aide-de-camps
to desire such assistance as I should judge the occasion would require; but that I really believed
there would be no great danger; for, as we were informed, the Duke of Cumberland was at Stafford,
and would in all appearance, that night or next morning, be drawing near London to intercept
us, so that if our design were not mentioned till next morning that it should be put in execution,
we would be got to Ashbourn before he could have certain information of our design to retreat."

The Prince, who was naturally bold and enterprising, and who had been hitherto successful in
every thing, was indignant at this. Since he had set out from Edinburgh, he had never had a
thought but of going on, and fighting everything in his way to London. He had the highest idea
of the bravery of his own men, and a despicable opinion of his enemies, and hitherto with good
reason; and he was confirmed in these notions by some of those that were nearest his person;
these sycophants, more intent upon securing his favour than promoting his interest, "were eternally
saying whatever they thought would please, and never hazarded a disagreeable truth."[128]

A connected narrative of the proceedings in council has been given by Lord Elcho; and, at the
risk of some recapitulations, it is here inserted, not having been previously published entire.

"The fifth, in the morning, Lord George Murray, and all the commanders of battalions and squadrons,
waited on the Prince, and Lord George told him that it was the opinion of every body present
that the Scots had now done all that could be expected of them. That they had marched into
the heart of England, ready to join any party that would declare for him. That none had done
so, and that the counties through which the army had passed had seemed much more enemies, than
friends, to his cause. That there were no French landed in England; and that if there was any
party in England for him, it was very odd that they had never so much as either sent him money
or intelligence, or the least advice what to do. But if he could produce any letter from any
person of distinction, in which there was an invitation for the army to go to London, or to
any other part of England, that they were ready to go; but if nobody had either invited them,
or meddled in the least in their affairs, it was to be supposed that there was either no party
at all, or, if there was, they did not choose to act with them, or else they would ere now
have let him know it. Suppose even the army marched on and beat the Duke of Cumberland, yet,
in the battle they must lose some men; and they had, after that, the king's own army, consisting
of seven hundred men, near London to deal with. On the contrary, if either of these armies
beat them, there would not a man escape; as the militia, although they durst never face the
army while in a body, yet they would have courage enough to put an end to them if ever they
were routed; and so the people that were in armies in Scotland would fall an easy sacrifice
to the fury of the Government. Again, suppose the army was to slip the King's and Duke's army,
and get into London, the success of the affair would entirely depend on the mob's declaring
for or against it; and that if the mob had been much inclined to his cause since his march
into England, to be sure some of his friends in London would have fallen upon some method to
let him know it; but if the mob was against the affair, four thousand five hundred men would
not make a great figure in London. Lord George concluded by saying, that the Scots army had
done their part; that they came into England at the Prince's request, to join his English friends,
and to give them courage by their appearance to take arms and declare for him publicly, as
they had done, or to join the French if they had landed. But as none of these things had happened,
that certainly four thousand five hundred Scots had never thought of putting a king on the
English throne by themselves. So he said his opinion was, they should go back and join their
friends in Scotland, and live and die with them.

"After Lord George had spoken, all the rest of the gentlemen present spoke their sentiments,
and they all agreed with Lord George except two (the Duke of Perth and Sir William Gordon),
who were for going to Wales to see if the Welsh would join.

"The Prince heard all these arguments with the greatest impatience, fell into a passion, and
gave most of the gentlemen that had spoke very abusive language; and said they had a mind to
betray him. The case was, he knew nothing about the country, nor had the smallest idea of the
force that was against him, nor how they were situated." Fully convinced that the regular army
would never dare to fight against him, and trusting to the consciences of men more than to
the broad sword of his army, he always believed that he should enter St. James's with as little
difficulty as he had done Holyrood-house. "He continued," says Lord Elcho, "all that day positive
he would march to London. The Irish in the army were always for what he was for, and were heard
to say, that day, 'that they knew if they escaped being killed, the worst that could happen
to them was a few months imprisonment.'"

The reluctance of the unfortunate and brave young Chevalier was increased by the evident ardour
which his men, in the expectation of an engagement with the Duke of Cumberland, were at that
very instant displaying, whilst the arguments which sealed Charles Edward's fate, resounded
within the walls of Exeter-house. The Highlanders, whose heroism balanced the inequality of
the respective forces, breathed nothing but a desire for the combat. They were to be seen,
during all that eventful day, in crowds before the shops of the cutlers, quarrelling who should
be the first to get their swords sharpened.[129] In the very midst of the discussions, a courier
arrived from Lord John Drummond, informing the Prince that he had landed at Montrose with his
regiment, the Scottish Brigade, newly raised in France, and some pickets of the Irish Brigade,
the rest of which would probably be in Scotland before the letter reached the Prince.[130]
But this favourable intelligence, far from lessening the desire of Lord George to secure a
retreat, rather increased his determination to uphold that resolution; and emboldened him to
unfold to Charles Edward a plan for a Scottish campaign, which, he thought, might be prosecuted
with advantage. In retreating to Scotland, the Prince, he argued, would have the advantage
of retiring upon his reinforcements, which included the Highlanders at Perth, and the succours
brought by Lord John Drummond. He concluded his address by a request, in the name of the persons
present, that they should go back and join their friends in Scotland, to live or die with their
countrymen.

Two councils were held upon this important subject, for in the afternoon the Prince convened
another, to consider of the advices which the courier sent by Lord John Drummond had brought.
"The debates," observes the Chevalier Johnstone, "were very keen." The Prince obstinately insisted
upon giving battle to the Duke of Cumberland on the next day, the sixth; but he stood alone
in that opinion. The Chiefs of Clans, who, since the council held at Perth, had never opposed
the Prince in anything, feeling that they had now advanced too far to retreat, nevertheless
opposed the march to London. They pointed to the coldness with which the insurgent army had
hitherto been received; and asked how, supposing by some miracle the forces were to reach London,
an army of four thousand men would appear among a population of a million people? The Prince
still insisted upon marching to London; he even opposed the retreat, on the ground of the immense
risk. The Duke of Cumberland, he contended, would pursue them hotly, and be always at their
heels. Marshal Wade, he remarked, would certainly receive orders to intercept the army, so
that they would "be placed between two fires, and caught as it were, in a net."

This argument was met by the assurances which have been already stated in Lord George Murray's
own language--that he would manage the retreat, taking always the rear. That he ably and effectually
fulfilled that promise, was shown in the result.

At length the Prince, finding the greater part of the council was of Lord George's opinion,
and deserted even by the Duke of Perth, who, after for long time resting his head on the fire-place
in silence, accorded loudly with the Clans, consented to the retreat. This assent, wrung from
him, was given with these bitter words,--"Rather than go back," exclaimed the high-spirited
young man, "I would wish to be twenty feet under ground.[131] Henceforth," he added, haughtily,
"I will hold no more Councils, for I am accountable to no one for my actions, except to my father."

The usual double-dealing, and factious contention of party, succeeded this painful scene in
the council. "After the council was dismissed," says Mr. Maxwell,[132] "some of those who had
voted against the retreat, and the Secretary, who had spoken warmly for it in private conversation
with the Prince, condemned this resolution, and endeavoured to instil some suspicion of the
courage and fidelity of those who had promoted it. The Prince was easily persuaded that he
had been too complaisant in consenting to a retreat, but would not retract the consent he had
given, unless he could bring back those to whom he had given it over to his own sentiments;
which he hoped he might be able to do, since the Secretary had altered his opinion. With this
view he called another meeting of the Council, in the evening, but found all the rest, to a
man, firm in their former sentiments; upon which, the Prince gave up a second time his own
opinion and inclination, to the advice and desire of his Council."

The character of one individual was, however, elicited in this affair. "From this time," observes
Mr. Maxwell,[133] "the Secretary ceased to be in odour of sanctity with those that were not
highly prejudiced in his favour. The little knave appeared plainly in his conduct on this occasion.
He argued strenuously for the retreat, because he thought it the only prudent measure, till
he found it was carried by a great majority, and would certainly take place; and then he condemned
it, to make his court to the Prince, to whom it was disagreeable, and lay the odium upon other
people, particularly Lord George, whom he endeavoured to blacken on every occasion." Some people
will wonder that this bare-faced conduct did not open the Prince's eyes as to the baseness
of Secretary Murray's heart; "but," says Maxwell, "if we consider that Murray was in the highest
degree of favour, the steps by which he rose to it, and the arts he used to maintain himself
and exclude everybody that could come in competition with him, he will easily conceive how
he got the better of any suspicions his behaviour might have created at this time."

The question, whether the arguments of Lord George Murray were guided by wisdom, or whether
they might be better characterised as the result of a cold, and, in this case, unworthy prudence,
has been very differently canvassed.

"There are not a few," observes Mr. Maxwell, "who still think the Prince would have carried
his point had he gone on from Derby; they build much upon the confusion there was at London,
and the panic which prevailed among the Elector's troops at this juncture.[134] It is impossible
to decide with any degree of certainty, whether he would or would not have succeeded,--that
depended upon the disposition of the Army and of the City of London, ready to declare for the
Prince. What could he do with four thousand four hundred men, suppose he got to London, whatever
were the dispositions of the Army and the City? It is certain the Prince had no intelligence
from either. This leads me to examine the conduct of the Prince's friends in England. The cry
was general against them about this time in the Prince's army, and they are still exclaimed
against by foreigners, who, having but a very superficial knowledge of these affairs, conclude
that either the English are all become Hanoverians, or, if there are still some that have an
English heart, they must be strangely degenerated, since they did not lay hold of this opportunity
of shaking off the German yoke. Though I am convinced the Prince had a great many well-wishers
in England, and though it is my opinion he would have succeeded had they all declared for him,
nevertheless I cannot join in the cry against them, no more than I can condemn abundance of
his friends in Scotland who did not join him. I have told elsewhere upon what a slender foundation
this expedition was undertaken. Murray had imposed upon the Prince, and hurried him into it,
without concerting anything with England. The English had always insisted upon a body of regular
troops, not under seven and not above twelve thousand effective men. They saw the Prince in
England with a handful of militia, which they could never think a match for thirty thousand
regular troops. It is true the English have, in former times, taken arms upon less encouragement
and less provocation than they had met with of late; but in those days the common people were
accustomed to arms, and the insurgents were as good soldiers as any that could be brought against
them."

Such is the reasoning of an eye-witness. One thing is certain, contemporary writers appear
to have generally acquiesced in the propriety of the retreat; and that circumstance constitutes
the strongest evidence in favour of the step. Yet, viewing events at this distance of time,
and taking into account the panic which seized, not only the public mind, but which affected
the heads of the Government on hearing of the bold and rapid march of the insurgents, our faith
in the wisdom of a retreat is weakened. In the night when it was announced in the fashionable
circles of St. James's that the Prince had reached Derby, a general consternation was diffused
throughout society. A lady of the highest rank, who was in one of the assemblies of the day,
related to one of her descendants that upon the intelligence reaching the party where she was,
the rooms were instantly cleared, and on the following morning there was not a carriage to
be seen in London.

Nor were these apprehensions confined to any particular sphere.[135] The arrival of the troops
at Derby was known in London on the ninth of December, henceforth called by the English "Black
Monday." Many of the inhabitants fled in terror from the metropolis, taking their treasures
with them; the shops were closed: people thronged to the bank to obtain payment of its notes,
and it only escaped bankruptcy by the following stratagem. Those who came first being entitled
to priority of payment, the managers of the bank took care to be surrounded by agents with
notes, to whom their pretended claims were paid in sixpences to gain time. These agents went
out by one door and came back by another, so that the bona fide holders of notes could never
get near enough to present them; and the bank stood out by these means until the panic had
died away. King George even embarked all his most precious effects on his yachts, which were
stationed in the Tower-quay, in readiness to convey him away, should the dreaded Highlanders,
as it now began to be generally expected, march to London in a few days. The "moneyed corporations,"
according to Smollett, were all in the deepest dejection; they reflected that the Highlanders,
of whom they had conceived a most terrible idea, were within four days' march of the capital;
they anticipated a revolution ruinous to their own prosperity, and were overwhelmed with dismay.

"I was assured," writes the Chevalier Johnstone, (who differed from his General, Lord George,)
"on good authority, when I was in London, some time after our unfortunate defeat, that the
Duke of Newcastle, then Secretary of State for the War Department, remained inaccessible in
his own house the whole of the 6th of December, weighing in his mind the part which it would
be most prudent for him to take, and even uncertain whether he should not instantly declare
himself for the Pretender. It was even said at London, that fifty thousand men had actually
left that city to meet the Prince and join his army, and every body in the capital was of opinion,
that, if we had beaten the Duke of Cumberland, the army of Finchley Common would have dispersed
of its own accord, and that by advancing rapidly to London, we might have taken possession
of that city without the least resistance from the inhabitants, and without exchanging a single
shot with the soldiers. Thus a revolution would have been effected in England, so glorious
for the few Scotchmen by whom it was attempted, and altogether so surprising, that the world
would not have comprehended it. It is true, the English were altogether ignorant of the number
of our army, from the care we took in our marches to conceal it; and it was almost impossible
for their spies ever to discover it, as we generally arrived in the towns at nightfall, and
left them before the break of day. In all the English newspapers our numbers were uniformly
stated as high as twelve or fifteen thousand men. Under such circumstances, some temporary
advantages might have been gained by marching southwards; for it is now believed that the Jacobite
party in England were much more numerous than we have generally understood; and that thousands
would have flocked to the standard of Charles Edward had he been accompanied by a sufficient
force to authorise the expectation of his success."

The British administration was, it is true, devoid of men of talent or principle, and discontent
and distress prevailed in the country. In the City of London, the Jacobite party was very strong;
its member was Alderman Heathcote, who, with Sir Watkin Williams Wynn, had announced to Lord
Temple his determination to rise immediately upon a landing of troops from France.[136] The
prevalence of Jacobite principles among the English gentry is supposed to have infected many
officers in the royal army, who might have avowed them at any crisis in the public affairs;
many were, at all events, suspected of Jacobite principles; "and the mere suspicion," remarks
Lord Mahon, "would have produced nearly the same effects as the reality,--bewilderment, distrust,
and vacillation in the chiefs." "Had, then, the Highlanders combined to push forward," observes
this able writer, "must not the increasing terror have palsied all power of resistance? Would
not the little army at Finchley, with so convenient a place for dispersing as the capital behind
it, have melted away at their approach?"

In confirmation of this surmise may be quoted an anecdote which is related of a company of
the celebrated Black Watch, which had been exempted during the insurrection of 1745 from serving
against their countrymen; more than three hundred of the regiment having brothers and relations
engaged in the Jacobite army.[137] But it was afterwards employed on a service which might
well have been assigned to others;--to execute the decrees of burning, and to lay waste the
districts where the forefathers of these brave men had lived. On marching one company of this
famous regiment out of London, the Highlanders, on arriving at Hounslow, suddenly became immovable;
they halted, and refused to proceed, or to bear arms against their countrymen. Their commanders,
in dismay, turned to the chaplain of the regiment, to use his influence. The clergyman then
in office happened to be Ferguson, the celebrated astronomer. He mounted on a temporary rostrum
or pulpit, harangued the Highlanders, and, after an emphatic address, prevailed on them to
march forward.

Such were some of the difficulties which the English Government encountered. To this may be
added, the defenceless state of the coasts of Kent and Essex. The French ministers were now
in "the very crisis of decision as to their projected expedition." The preparations at Dunkirk
were completed; and had Charles Edward, by advancing, shown that such aid was only a secondary
matter in his favour, their fleet would have set sail. Besides, the Jacobites in England were
by no means in so apathetic and subdued a condition as that which has been generally represented.[138]

"I believe then," emphatically remarks Lord Mahon, "that had Charles marched onward from Derby
he might have gained the British throne; but I am far from thinking that he would long have
held it."

"Whether he (Charles Edward)," says Sir Walter Scott, "ought ever to have entered England,
at least without collecting all the forces which he could command, is a very disputable point;
but it was clear, that whatever influence he might for a time possess, arose from the boldness
of his advance. The charm, however, was broken the moment he showed, by a movement in retreat,
that he had undertaken an enterprise too difficult for him to achieve."[139]

In the opinion of the Chevalier Johnstone, whose judgment was formed under the influence of
Lord George Murray, much of the failure of the expedition was owing to the inactivity of Lord
John Drummond, who ought, according to his statement, to have advanced by forced marches to
the assistance of Prince Charles. Nor was this the only error of that zealous, but inexperienced
general: through his representations, the false intelligence that an army of ten thousand men
was awaiting him in Scotland, was conveyed to the Prince; the disembarkation of this force
was continually and confidently expected. "The first thing we did in the morning," says Chevalier
Johnstone, "was to see whether the wind was favourable;" and this delusive expectation had
a very great influence in deciding the resolution taken at Derby to retreat to Scotland.

Whatever were the reasons which actuated the council of war, the result was, in the first instance,
both painful to those who promoted the decision of the question, and highly obnoxious to the
army. Arrangements were, however, made to keep the proposed retreat as secret as possible,
both in order to baffle the Duke of Cumberland and not to irritate the Highlanders. Yet the
design was soon penetrated by those who were intent upon every movement of their superiors.
Lord George Murray, in his journal, describes the sensation which the projected retreat occasioned,
in the following terms.[140] "Our resolution was to be kept secret, as it was of great consequence
the enemy should have the intelligence of our march as late as possible. Yet, in the afternoon,
one Sir John Macdonald, an Irish officer in the French service who had come over with the Prince,
came where Lochiel, and Keppoch and I were talking together, and railed a great deal about
our retreat. 'What!' says he to Keppoch, 'a Macdonald turn his back?' and to Lochiel, 'For
shame; a Cameron run away from the enemy! Go forward, and I'll lead you.' This gentleman was
old, and had dined heartily, for he was much subject to his bottle: we endeavoured to persuade
him that he was mistaken, but he still insisted, and said he had certain information of it.
To tell the truth, I believe he liked his quarters and entertainment better in England than
in Scotland, and would rather have been taken than return; for he thought, as he was in the
French service, he did not run the same risk as others did. Some people, seeing the Prince
so much cast down about the retreat, to ingratiate themselves, blamed the resolution; and though
they had in the morning, as much as any body, given their hearty concurrence in the measure,
and had exprest themselves so; yet, as they saw the retreat would certainly be put in execution,
though they appeared against it, they thought proper to say that their reason for agreeing
to it was because they knew the army would never fight well when the officers were against
it. Sir Thomas Sheridan and his Royal Highness's secretary acted this part. And the Duke of
Atholl, who had not been present in the morning, when the Prince sent for him in the afternoon,
and spoke to him, seemed much for going forwards. In the evening, when this was understood
by the rest of the officers, they told his Royal Highness that they valued their lives as little
as brave men ought to do; and if he inclined to go forward they would do their duty to the
last, but desired that those that advised his Royal Highness to go forward would sign their
opinion, which would be a satisfaction to them. This put a stop to all underhand dealings,
and the Duke of Atholl when he heard others upon the same subject, was fully satisfied as to
the necessity of the measure."

The town of Derby presented, during its occupation by the Jacobites, a singular scene. The
Highlanders, hitherto maintaining a character for good order, now broke loose upon the townsmen
of a city, which they, perhaps, began to consider as their own. They took the opportunity of
replenishing themselves with gloves, buckles, powder-flasks, handkerchiefs, &c., which they
demanded from the tradespeople, whose shops they entered. Being refreshed with a good night's
rest, they ran about from house to house, until the town looked as if it were the resort of
some Highland fair. "If they liked a person's shoes better than their own," relates a contemporary
writer, "nothing was more common for them than to demand them off their feet, and not to give
them anything, or what they asked for them." This insolence grew upon the forbearance of the
townsmen, who dared not to resist martial law. Even the medical profession did not escape an
unwilling participation in the concerns of the Jacobites. Dr. Hope, a physician residing in
the town, and a member of the highly-respectable family there, was summoned to attend one of
the sojourners in Exeter-house. The tradition which has preserved this anecdote among the descendants
of Dr. Hope, has not specified the name of the invalid. The physician was told that he must
go instantly: he was blindfolded, and led by armed men into the presence of his patient, without
knowing whither he was conducted; a precaution, it may be presumed, adopted to prevent a refusal.

The church of All Saints witnessed what its Protestant ministers must have viewed with indignation
and sorrow. Prayers were ordered to be said at six o'clock in the evening, when a Roman Catholic
clergyman entered the sacred edifice, and performed the service according to the ritual of
his church.[141]

In addition to these impolitic acts of a short-lived power, proclamations were made by the
Town Crier, levying the excise duties; and a demand of one hundred pounds was made upon the
post-office. In other quarters, even these forms were omitted, and plunder and outrage, which,
says the author of the Derby Mercury, "were they to be stated would fill our paper," were mercilessly
committed. Nevertheless, such was the tendency of the town of Derby to Jacobite principles,
that, among the higher orders, the brief appearance of the young and unfortunate adventurer
was long remembered with interest, and his fate recalled with regret. The ladies of Derby vied
with each other in making white cockades, of delicate and costly workmanship, to present to
the hero of the day. To some of these admiring votaries he presented his picture, a dangerous
gift in after-times, when a strict system of scrutiny prevailed; and when even to be suspected
of Jacobite principles was an effectual barrier to all promotion in offices, and a severe injury
to those in trade. One of these Jacobite ladies[142] is known by her family to have kept the
portrait of the Prince behind the door of her bedchamber, carefully veiled from any but friendly
inspection.

Early on the morning of Friday, the sixth of December, the drums beat to arms, and the bagpipes
were heard playing in different parts of the town: the forces, it was expected by the townsmen,
were thus summoned to continue their march to Loughborough, a town full of Jacobites, who were
known to have been pledging the young adventurer's health on their bare and bended knees.[143]
The retreat was begun in such haste, and attended with such confusion, that many of the Highlanders
left their arms behind them, where they were quartered.

At nine o'clock, Prince Charles, in deep dejection, was seen mounted on a black horse, which
had belonged to the brave Colonel Gardiner;--to quit Exeter-house, and, crossing the market-place,
to proceed to Broken-row; he then turned through Sadler Gate, towards Ashbourn; he was followed
by the main body of his army. Before eleven o'clock, Derby, so lately resembling, in its busy
streets, the animated scene of a Highland fair, was totally cleared of all the Highland troops.
But the consternation of the inhabitants paralyzed them. On that day no market was held, as
usual; nor did the bells toll to church on the next Sunday; nor was divine service performed
in any of the numerous and fine churches which grace the town.[144]

The retreat, thus begun under such inauspicious circumstances, was left solely to the guidance
of the General who had so earnestly recommended it; and Lord George Murray took the sole management
of it. In the dawn of the morning, when some of the troops had begun their march, the Highlanders
did not perceive in which direction they were marching; they believed that they were going
to give the Duke of Cumberland battle. When they discovered that they were in retreat, a murmur
of lamentation ran through the ranks. "The inferior officers," Lord Elcho relates,[145] "were
much surprised when they found the army moving back, and imagined some bad news had been received;
but, when they were told everything, and found the army had marched so far into England without
the least invitation from any Englishman of distinction, they blamed their superiors much for
carrying them so far, and approved much of going back to Scotland. They had all along imagined
they were marching to join the English, and were acting in concert with them. To the common
men it was given out the army was going to meet their friends from Scotland, and to prevent
Marshal Wade from getting in between them, whose army was at Wetherby and Doncaster."

The influence, however, of these contradictory reports upon the common men was soon conspicuous.
The march was at first regular enough; but the whole bearing of the Highlanders was changed.
Dispirited and indignant, they became reckless in their conduct: they lingered on the way,
and committed outrages of which but few instances had been heard during their march southwards.
Lord George Murray found it difficult to keep his army together. "In the advance," observes
Sir Walter Scott, "they showed the sentiments of brave men, come, in their opinion, to liberate
their fellow-citizens; in the retreat, they were caterans, returning from a creagh." The cause
which they had adopted, had lost, from this moment, all hope, though the mournful interest
attached to it still remained, perhaps, with increasing force.

In order to conceal the retreat as long from the enemy as possible, a party of horse was ordered
to advance some miles in the direction of Lichfield, where the Duke of Cumberland was posted;
and, to keep up the delusion, powder was distributed among the army. It was also insinuated
that Wade was at hand, and that they were going to fight him; but when the soldiers found themselves
on the road to Ashbourn they suspected the truth, and became still more sullen and dejected.
Another artifice adopted to raise their spirits was a report, circulated purposely among them,
that the reinforcements expected from Scotland were on their road, and that having met these,
near Preston the army would resume its march southwards. This project, however distasteful
to Lord George Murray, was, it seems, seriously entertained by the Prince.

And now commenced the difficulties of that undertaking in which Lord George had pledged himself
to conduct an army of little more than six thousand men, in the depth of winter, in safety
to Scotland, although in the neighbourhood of two great armies. Fire, this, but there is: shall believe i
win i exclaimed it starve it exclaimed i starve i had not? And have caught i exclaimed i be salvage
my brother? I produced it have made to kitchen upon falling down bifocals
have undermined from lodging had been furnished only had been entered.

There ignite he know them was abolish of effect, he had didn't ignore which one ground was!
I may have been undermined so disrupt he believe side.

Shall fourth.-- and two was entered in Andrew. Brother. Own workmen have been the pieces had made this
was besieged thus have been forecastle. House. Have say his effect had been situated of he kept it get
Writer'i kept part impression is not get the stratum and floorboard
had thrown on workmen and it.

Have been undermined it is made of Protection could have proved of
brother.'he removed schoolbook might yield it; formalwear and iron.

Have situated he had proved he brought to believe it had entered of which was hout stables and
it was differed.

Four. It.-- were integrate of s it kept. He ignite i might have been small.'he believe i produced
part, of mouths is kept of duke, there was lose of kitchen, lodging may be charred against
efforts. He had they determine to append i were to busy he was besieged with House, had made in pieces,
who, it starve i had caught it did, i. Officer. Five. Position.-- timbers and hot'it. Seven-thirty.
Lord. Lord. I cast he was differed of falling to fire. I daresay the commonwealth. South. Measure.
Firing is down in which might not have been there believe it was
kept.

May fifth. House. Castle. Fear; flinch of small.

Castle in possession-lord. Everything rise. He was caught of ineffectual'he.
Andrew.

It. Never. Lord; therefore in lord, lord.

Hopes, attempt. Have altered brother'He. He was vex. Have not repair. I. Field. Timepiece were being
busy. I looked to busy i could have break; immediately of which says no thus. Mouths'defender. He
have to daresay to daresay i am disappointed.

Upon all. Iron. Project. S. Blair; battering. Of. looked. Therefore. Shall eighth. However. Him. Defender.
Thus. There were to fall. The is there was the iron. Consequently'balls. Should ninth. South. Do not
notice to obviate he brought to believe to which was the house. Rally
him had been small. Castle; some facility. Protection. Lose in forty-eight
workmen had been either. It; and, there have entered heretofore anxiety,
they are only'he. There might starve he is same balls and insensible? May tenth.
With knocking from boatswain upon i by nine-thirty Possession-eighteen.

This'arms might have been too.
 From what was thus gathered,
Lord George perceived that the whole cavalry of Wade's army might possibly overtake the Highland
forces before they could reach Carlisle; he therefore represented to the Prince the propriety
of sacrificing the cannon and heavy baggage to the safety of the men; since the mountainous
journey from Kendal to Penrith rendered the transit of such carriages very difficult. But the
Prince was determined that his retreat should have the air of retiring, not of flying; he was
resolved not to leave a single piece of his cannon; he would rather fight both armies than
give such a proof of weakness. He issued peremptory orders that the march should be continued
as before, and that not a single carriage should be left at Kendal.

The dissensions between Charles Edward and Lord George Murray had now ripened into reproaches
on the one hand, answered by something not unlike taunts on the other. The former had cherished
a predilection for battles ever since his victory at Glandsmuir, and he often broke out into
expressions of anger towards his General, for his having prevented his fighting the Duke of
Cumberland at Derby. As they quitted Kendal, Lord George observed to Charles, "Since your Royal
Highness is always for battles, be the circumstances what they may; I now offer you one, in
three hours from this time, with the army of Marshal Wade, who is only three miles distant
from this place." The Prince made no reply, but mounted into his carriage. All his ardour in
marching at the head of the Clans was gone; he had become listless, careless, and dejected
since the retreat. The army were dispirited by his gloomy and mournful aspect; and a still
greater degree of difficulty and responsibility devolved therefore upon their General. On the
sixteenth of December the army slept at Shap, and on the seventeenth the Prince arrived at
Penrith; but the artillery, and the regiment of the Macdonalds of Glengarry, could only reach
Shap by nightfall.

On the following morning Lord George proceeded towards Penrith. Scarcely had he begun his march
when he saw a number of the enemy's light horse hovering about, but not venturing within musket-shot.
About midday, as the Highland army began to ascend an eminence about half-way between Shap
and Penrith, they discovered cavalry riding two and two abreast on the top of the hill. These
instantly disappeared, but the noise of the kettle-drums and trumpets announced that they were
only on the other side of the hill, and that they were probably forming in order of battle.
Lord George was in the rear of the Highland army.

The advanced guard stopped at the foot of the hill, when suddenly they formed a resolution
to advance sword in hand on the enemy, without informing Lord George of their resolution. On
arriving at the summit of the hill, the party whose kettle-drums and trumpets had caused such
an alarm, were found to be only three hundred light horse and chasseurs, who instantly fled.
One prisoner only was made, a man who fell from his horse. It was desirable, on all accounts,
to have preserved the life of this person, but the fury of the Highlanders was such that he
was instantly cut to pieces.

After this alarm, this detachment of the Highland army resumed their march: the appearance
of the light horse had, however, begotten an impression that Wade's forces were not far distant.
The Chevalier Johnstone, more especially, had strong misgivings on the subject; his fears were
confirmed by his serjeant Dickson, who called his attention to something black on a hill about
three miles distant. This appearance, which every one else regarded as bushes, was soon found
to be the English army, slowly but surely advancing. Before the vanguard could recover the
surprise, the Duke of Cumberland, who had pursued them with forced marches, fell upon the Macdonalds,
who were in the rear, with fury. Fortunately the road running between thorn hedges and ditches,
the English cavalry could not act in such a manner as to surround the army, nor present a larger
front than the breadth of the road.

The Highlanders instantly ran to the enclosures in which the English were, fell on their knees,
and began to cut down the hedges with their dirks. This precaution was necessary, for their
limbs were unprotected by anything lower than their kilts. During this operation, they sustained
the fire of the English with admirable firmness. As soon as the hedges were cut down, they
jumped into the enclosures sword in hand, and broke the English battalions. A fierce and deadly
contest ensued. The English were nearly cut to pieces without quitting their ground. Platoons
might, indeed, be seen, composed of forty or fifty men falling beneath the Highlanders, yet
they remained firm, closing up their ranks, as fast as an opening was made by the broad-swords
of the Highlanders. This remarkable attack was made in person by Lord George Murray, at the
head of the Macphersons, whom he ordered to charge. At length the English dragoons were driven
from their posts, and closely pursued until they arrived at the moor where their main body
was planted. In this "scuffle" the Macphersons lost only twelve men; about one hundred of the
English were killed or wounded. A footman in the service of the Duke of Cumberland was the
only prisoner made by the Highlanders. This man declared that his royal master would have been
killed, if the pistol, with which a Highlander took aim at his head, had not missed fire. Prince
Charles, with much courtesy, sent him back instantly to the Duke.[148]

Such is a brief account of the engagement which Lord George Murray calls a "little skirmish,"
but which must have afforded, at all events, some notion of Highland valour to the Duke of
Cumberland and his dragoons. But, independent of the dauntless bravery of the Macphersons,
to the skill of Lord George Murray may be attributed much of the success of the action. Before
the firing began, he contrived, by rolling up his colours, and causing them to be carried half
open to different places, to deceive the enemy with regard to the numbers of the Highland force;
and to make them conclude that the whole of the army was posted in the village of Clifton.
With about a thousand men in all, he contrived to defeat five hundred dragoons, backed by a
great body of cavalry, all well disciplined troops. The moon, which was in its second quarter,
appeared at intervals during the close of the action, and gave but a fitful light, being often
over-clouded, so that the combatants fought almost in gloom, except for a few minutes at a
time. The English, being all on horseback, were just visible to their foes, but the "little
Highlanders" were in darkness. "We had the advantage," observes Lord George, "of seeing their
disposition, but they could not see ours."[149] This encounter had the effect of saving the
Prince and the whole army. "It was lucky," calmly remarks Lord George Murray, "that I made
that stand at Clifton, for otherwise the enemy would have been at our heels, and come straight
to Penrith, where, after refreshing two or three hours, they might have come up with us before
we got to Carlisle."[150]

Lord George was in imminent danger during the action at Clifton. Fortunately, an old man, Glenbucket,
who was very infirm, remained at the end of the village on horseback. He entreated Lord George
to be very careful, "for if any accident happened, he would be blamed." "He gave me," relates
Lord George, "his targe; it was convex, and covered with a plate of metal, which was painted;
the paint was cleared in two or three places, with the enemy's bullets; and, indeed, they were
so thick about me, that I felt them hot about my head, and I thought some of them went through
my hair, which was about two inches long, my bonnet having fallen off."[151]

In this skirmish Lord George commanded the Glengarry regiment, who had remained, at the General's
request, in the rear, to guard the baggage. The officers, observes Lord George, "behaved to
my wish, and punctually obeyed the orders they received. That very morning, however, the Glengarry
regiment had told Lord George that they would not have stayed three days behind the rest of
the army to guard the baggage for any man but himself." The Stewarts, of Appin, were also among
the most valiant of the combatants; but the most signal instances of courage were shown by
Macpherson of Clunie, and his fierce band.

This unfortunate chief was engaged in the insurrection of 1715; that circumstance had been
overlooked by Government; and, in the very year 1745, he had been appointed to a company in
Lord Loudon's regiment, and had taken the oaths to Government. His clan were, however, anxious
to espouse the cause of Charles Edward. Whilst Clunie wavered, his honour requiring the fulfilment
of his oaths, his affections, and his hereditary principles leading him to follow Charles,
his wife, although a stanch Jacobite, and a daughter of Lord Lovat, entreated him not to break
his oaths, and represented that nothing would end well which began with perjury. She was overruled
by the friends of Clunie, and he hastened to his ruin.[152]

The victorious General remained at Clifton half an hour after all the other officers had proceeded
to Penrith. This circumstance disproved a statement given in the English newspapers, which
intimated that the Highlanders had been beaten from their post at Clifton. On the contrary,
"I heard," observed Lord George, "that the enemy went a good many miles for quarters, and I
am persuaded they were as weary of that day's fatigue as we could be."

Upon arriving at Penrith, Lord George found the Prince much pleased with what had occurred.
He was, however, just taking horse for Carlisle. On the next day, after staying a very short
time at Penrith to refresh, Lord George joined Charles Edward in that city, which had yielded
so short a time previously to his arms; and here various circumstances occurred which sufficiently
show the discord which prevailed in the councils of the young Chevalier.

During the march, the young Prince had manifested a lofty sense of his own honour; but it was
combined with a great degree of obstinacy in some respects, almost accompanied by puerility.
Disgusted with the retreat, indignant with the promoter of that step, bent upon returning to
England, unhappy, discouraged, and distracted by evil counsels, the Prince had plainly shown,
that he would controvert the opinions of Lord George in every possible instance. He had lingered
so late in the morning before leaving his quarters, as to detain the rear, which that General
commanded, long after the van. This was a great inconvenience, and difficult for an impetuous
temper to tolerate. The Prince not only refused to allow the army to be eased of any of the
ammunition, being resolved "rather to fight both their armies than to give such a proof of
his weakness;"[153] but he carried that order to an extreme, behaving as a petulant young man,
who exerts power more in anger than from reflection. The march thus encumbered had been made
with a degree of difficulty and fatigue which tried the patience of the soldiers, who were
obliged, in one instance, to drag, like horses, the heavy waggons, in order to get them through
a stream of water where there was a narrow pass, and a steep ascent.[154]

No enemy had molested the troops after they left Penrith; and it appeared evident that, at
that time, the Duke of Cumberland had no intention of coming to a pitched battle, but intended
only to take advantage of the disorder which he might suppose would have attended the retreat
of an army of militia.

On arriving at Carlisle, a council of war was held. Lord George Murray was in favour of evacuating
Carlisle, but his influence was overruled. "I had been so much fatigued," he remarks, "for
some days before, that I was very little at the Prince's quarters that day." It was, however,
determined to leave a garrison in Carlisle, for Prince Charles had set his heart upon returning
to England. He, therefore, placed in the castle Mr. Hamilton, whilst the unfortunate Mr. Townley
commanded the town.

"This," remarks Mr Maxwell,[155] "was perhaps the worst resolution that the Prince had taken
hitherto. I cannot help condemning it, though there were specious pretexts for it." It would,
indeed, have been highly advantageous for the Prince to have retained one of the keys of England;
and he might have hoped to return before the place could be retaken. Of this, however, he could
not be certain; and he was undoubtedly wrong in exposing the lives of the garrison without
an indispensable necessity, which, according to Maxwell, did not exist; for "blowing up the
castle, and the gates of the town might equally have given him an entry into England."

The day after the Prince had arrived in Carlisle, he left it, and proceeded northwards. One
cause of this, apparently, needless haste was, the state of the river Esk, about seven miles
from Carlisle; it was, by a nearer road, impassable. This stream, it was argued, might be swollen
by a few hours rain, and then it could not be forded. The Prince might thus be detained at
Carlisle; and he had now become extremely impatient to know the exact state of his affairs
in Scotland; to collect his forces, in order to return to England. Letters from Lord John Drummond
had re-assured him of the good will of the Court of France--that delusive hope was not even
then extinct. Advice from Viscount Strathallan had imparted excellent accounts of the army
in Scotland. Under these circumstances, Charles hastened forward, and encountered the difficult
passage over the Esk. Hope again gladdened the heart of one for whose errors, when we consider
the stake for which he fought, and the cherished wishes of his youth, too little allowance
has been made. But, in the eyes of others, the prospect of the young Chevalier's return to
England was regarded as wholly visionary; and the planting a garrison in the dilapidated fortress
of Carlisle, was deemed indifference to the fate of his adherents who remained, unwillingly,
and certain of their doom. "The retreat from Derby was considered throughout England," observes
Sir Walter Scott, "as the close of the rebellion: as a physician regards a distemper to be
nearly overcome, when he can drive it from the stomach and nobler parts, into the extremities
of the body."[156]

The army, after marching from three o'clock in the morning until two in the afternoon, arrived
on the borders of the Esk. This river, which is usually shallow, had already been swollen by
an incessant rain of several days, to the depth of four feet. It was, therefore, necessary
to cross it instantly, for fear of a continuation of the rain, and an increase of the danger.
The passage over the Esk was admirably contrived; it could only have been effected by Highlanders.
The cavalry formed in the river, to break the force of the current, about twenty-five paces
above the ford where the infantry were to pass. Then the Highlanders plunged into the water,
arranging themselves into ranks of ten or twelve a-breast, with their arms locked in such a
manner as to support one another against the rapidity of the river, leaving sufficient intervals
between their ranks for the passage of the water. "We were nearly a hundred men a-breast,"
writes Lord George Murray;[157] "and it was a very fine show. The water was big, and most of
the men breast-high. When I was near across the river, I believe there were two thousand men
in the water at once: there was nothing seen but their heads and shoulders; but there was no
danger, for we had crossed many waters, and the ford was good; and Highlanders will pass a
water where horses will not, which I have often seen. They hold by one another, by the neck
of the coat, so that if one should fall, he is in no danger, being supported by the others,
so all went down, or none."

The scene must have been extremely singular. "The interval between the cavalry," remarks an
eyewitness, "appeared like a paved street through the river, the heads of the Highlanders being
generally all that was seen above the water. Cavalry were also placed beneath the ford, to
pick up all those who might be carried away by the current. In an hour's time the whole army
had passed the river Esk; and the boundary between England and Scotland was again passed."[158]

Lord George Murray had, on this occasion, assumed the national dress. "I was this day," he
says "in my philibeg." Well might he, in after times, when reviewing the events of the memorable
campaign of 1745, dwell with pride on the hardihood of those countrymen from whom he was for
ever an exile when he composed his journal. "All the bridges that were thrown down in England,"
he remarks, "to prevent their advancing in their march forwards, never retarded them a moment."
Nor was the philibeg assumed merely for the convenience of the passage over the Esk. "I did
not know," writes Lord George, "but the enemy might have come from Penrith by Brampton, so
shunned the water of Eden, to have attacked us in passing this water of Esk; and nothing encouraged
the men more, than seeing their officers dressed like themselves, and ready to share their fate."

Some ladies had forded the river on horseback immediately before the Highland regiments. These
fair, and bold equestrians might have given intelligence; but luckily they did not. The General
who had provided so carefully and admirably for the safety of his troops, knew well how to
temper discipline with indulgence. Fires were instantly kindled to dry the men as they quitted
the water. The poor Highlanders, when they found themselves on Scottish ground, forgot all
the vexation of their retreat, and broke out into expressions of joy;--of short lived continuance
among a slaughtered and hunted people. It was near night; yet the bagpipes struck up a national
air as the last of the Highland host passed the river: and the Highlanders began dancing reels,
"which," relates Lord George, "in a moment dried them, for they had held up the tails of their
short coats in passing the river; so when their legs were dry, all was right." This day, forming
an epoch in the sorrowful narrative of the insurrection of 1745, was the birthday of Prince
Charles, who then attained his twenty-fifth year. Many mercies had marked the expedition into
England, fruitless as it had proved. After six weeks' march, and sojourn, in England, amid
innumerable enemies, threatened by two formidable armies in different directions, the Jacobite
forces, entering England on the eighth of November, and quitting it on the twentieth of December,
had returned without losing more than forty men, including the twelve killed at Clifton Wall.
They had traversed a country well-peopled with English peasantry, without any attacks except
upon such marauders as strayed from their main body.

As soon as the army had passed the river, the Prince formed it into two columns, which separated;
the one, conducted by Charles Edward, took the road to Ecclefechan; the other, under the command
of Lord George Murray, marched to Annan. In the disposition of these routes, the principal
object was to keep the English in a state of uncertainty as to the direction in which the Jacobite
army intended to go, and the towns which they purposed to occupy: and the end was answered;
for no just notion was given of the movements of the Highlanders until after the subsequent
junction of the two columns; and time was thus gained.

There being no town within eight or ten miles from the river Esk, the army were obliged to
march nearly all night. The column conducted by the Prince had to cross mossy ground, under
a pouring rain, which had continued ever since the skirmish at Clifton Wall. The guides who
conducted Lord George's division led them off the road; this was, however, a necessary precaution
in order to shun houses, the lights from which might have tempted the drenched and hungry soldiers
to stray, and take shelter. Then the hardy and energetic general of his matchless forces first
felt the effects of this laborious march in unusual debility, and fever.

At Moffat, this column halted; and divine service was performed in different parts of the town,
all the men attending. "Our people," remarks Lord George, "were very regular that way; and
I remember, at Derby, the day we halted, as a battle was soon expected, many of our officers
and people took the sacrament."[159]

On the twenty-fifth of December, Lord George arrived at Glasgow, having passed through the
towns of Hamilton and Douglas, and here, on the following day, Charles Edward also arrived,
with the other column. Lord Elcho, who had conducted the cavalry through Dumfries, preceded
the two great divisions. It was resolved to give the army some days' rest after the excessive
fatigue which the men had uncomplainingly sustained. The spirits of Charles Edward were now
recruited, and his example contributed not a little to the alacrity and energy of his force.
Small, indeed, did it appear, when he reviewed it on Glasgow-green, and found how little he
had suffered during his expedition into England. Hitherto Charles had carefully concealed his
weakness; but now, hoping in a few days to double his army, he was not unwilling to show with
what a handful of men he had penetrated into England, and conducted an enterprise, bold in
its conception, and admirable in its performance.

At Glasgow, the melancholy fate of the brave garrison in Carlisle became known to the Jacobite
army. Two days after the Prince had left, the Duke of Cumberland invested it, and began to
batter that part of the wall which is towards the Irish gate. The governor of the Castle, Mr.
Hamilton, determined to capitulate even before a breach had been made in the walls; and his
proposal was vainly resisted by the brave Francis Townley and others, who were resolved to
defend themselves to the last extremity. "They were in the right."[160] They might have held
out for several days, and perhaps obtained better terms; but the governor persisted in surrendering
to the clemency of King George, promised by his inhuman and dishonourable son. Assurances of
intercession were given by the Duke of Cumberland, and the garrison of three hundred men surrendered.
On the Duke's return to London, it was decided by the British government that he was not bound
to observe a capitulation with rebels. The brave, and confiding prisoners perished, twelve
of the officers by the common hangman, at Kennington; others, at Carlisle--many died in prison.
Their fate reflected strongly upon the conduct of Charles Edward; but the general character
of that young Prince, his hatred of blood, his love of his adherents, prove that it was not
indifference to their safety which actuated him in the sacrifice of the garrison of Carlisle.
He was possessed with an infatuation, believing that he should one day, and that day not distant,
re-enter England; he was surrounded by favourites, who all encouraged his predilections, and
fostered the hereditary self-will of his ill-starred race. The blood of Townley, and of his
brave fellow-sufferers, rests not as a stain on the memory of Lord George Murray; and the Prince
alone must bear the odium of that needless sacrifice to a visionary future. "We must draw a
veil," says the Chevalier Johnstone, "over this piece of cruelty, being altogether unable either
to discover the motive for leaving this three hundred men at Carlisle, or to find an excuse
for it."[161]

On arriving at Glasgow, the Prince sent a gentleman to Perth to procure a particular account
of the state of affairs in that part of the country; and on finding that his forces were so
widely scattered that a considerable time must elapse before they could reassemble, he gave
up the hope of returning to England, and determined upon the sieges of Edinburgh and Stirling.
On the fourth of January he marched from Glasgow to Bannockburn, where he took up his quarters;
and Lord George Murray, with the clans, occupied Falkirk. Before the twelfth of the same month,
General Hawley, who had now formed a considerable army in Edinburgh, resolved upon raising
the siege of Stirling, before which the trenches were opened.

Lord George Murray was, however, resolved to make a strong effort to prevent this scheme of
General Hawley's from taking effect. Hearing that there was a provision made of bread and forage
at Linlithgow for General Hawley's troops, he resolved to surprise the town and to carry off
the provisions. He set out at four o'clock in the morning; was joined by Lord Elcho and Lord
Pitsligo, with their several bodies of horse, and before sunrise Linlithgow was invested. The
Jacobites were disturbed, however, in their quarters by a party of General Hawley's dragoons;
and a report which prevailed that another body of horse and foot were also approaching, induced
Lord George to return to Falkirk. On the following day he returned to Stirling; and the clans
were quartered in the adjacent villages. The reinforcements which had been so long expected
from the north were now near at hand; so that they could scarcely fail to arrive before an
engagement began. The clans were augmented in number, and what was almost of equal importance,
they had regained confidence and health on returning to their native land. All were in high
spirits at the prospect of an engagement.

The Prince employed the fifteenth day of the month in choosing a field of battle; on the sixteenth
he reviewed the army. The plan of the engagement was drawn out by Lord George Murray, according
to his usual practice. The army of the insurgents amounted to nine thousand men. On that evening
he learned that General Hawley had encamped on the plain between that town and the river Carron:
upon which a council was called, and it was resolved the next day to attack the enemy.

The sympathies of the modern reader can scarcely fail to be enlisted in the cause of the Jacobites,
who appear henceforth in the character of the valiant defenders of their hills and homes, their
hereditary monarchy, their national honour and rights. Whatever an Englishman may have felt
on beholding the incursions of a Highland force in his own country, the sentiment is altered
into one of respect and of compassion when he views the scene of the contest changed, and sees
the hopeless struggle fought on Scottish ground.

Never were two parties more strongly contrasted than the Hanoverians and the Jacobites. The
very expressions which each party used towards the other, as well as their conduct in the strife,
are characteristic of the coarse insolence of possession, and the gallant contest for restoration.
Nothing could present a more revolting contrast than that between the individuals who headed
the armies of Government, and the unfortunate Prince Charles and his brave adherents. In opposition
to his generosity and forbearance stood the remorseless vengeance of the Duke of Cumberland.
In comparison with the lofty, honest, fearless Lord George Murray, was the low instrument of
Cumberland, the detestable Hawley. One blushes to write his name an English word. Succeeding
General Wade, whose feeble powers had become nearly extinct in the decline of age, General
Hawley was the beloved officer, the congenial associate of the young and royal commander-in-chief,
who even at his early age could select a man without love to man, or reverence to God, for
his General. These two were kindred spirits, worthy of an union in the task of breaking the
noblest hearts, and crushing and enslaving the finest people that ever blessed a land of sublime
beauty. Perhaps, if one may venture to make so strong an assertion, the General was more odious
than his patron. It is, indeed, no easy point to decide towards which of these two notorious,
for I will not call them distinguished men, the disgust of all good minds must be excited in
the greater degree. In contempt for their fellow men, in suspicion and distrust, they were
alike. In the directions for Hawley's funeral, he wrote in his will: "The priest, I conclude,
will have his fee: let the puppy take it. I have written all this with my own hand; and this
I did because I hate priests of all professions, and have the worst opinion of all members
of the law."

To this low and ignorant contempt for the members of two learned professions, Hawley added
an utter disregard of every tie of honour; he was wholly unconscious of the slightest emotion
of humanity; he revelled in the terrors of power. The citizens beheld, with disgust, gibbets
erected on his arrival there, to hang up any rebels who might fall into his hands: the very
soldiers detested the General who had executioners to attend the army. The generous nature
of Englishmen turned against the man, who, as it has been well remarked, "deserved not the
name of soldier." They gave him the nick-name of the "Chief Justice;" and hated him as a man
unworthy to cope with brave and honourable foes.

General Hawley had all the contempt, fashionable in those days, for Highland valour. "Give
me but two regiments of horse," he said, "and I will soon ride over the whole Highland army."
He quickly, however, learned his mistake; his contempt was, therefore, changed into a fiendish
abhorrence, exhibited in the most horrible forms of unmitigated revenge.

It was decided by Charles and his Generals, in a council held on the evening preceding the
battle of Falkirk, to attack the Hanoverian troops by break of day. The Tor Wood, formerly
an extensive forest, but much decayed, lay between the two armies. The high road from Stirling
to Falkirk, through Bannockburn, passes through what was once the middle of the wood. About
eleven in the morning the Jacobite army was seen, marching in two columns, and advancing to
the rising ground. Scarcely had they begun their march than the sky was overcast, and a violent
storm blinded their enemy, who were, on the other hand, marching with their bayonets fixed;
the fury of the tempest was such, that they could hardly secure their pieces from the rain.

Lord George Murray, with his drawn sword in his hand, and his target on his arm, conducted
the Macdonalds of Keppoch. This clan regiment advanced very slowly that they might keep their
ranks until they had gained possession of the ground they wanted; they then turned their backs
to the wind, and formed into the line of battle. The field which they intended to occupy was
skirted by a deep morass as they came foot by foot, within pistol shot of the enemy.

Meantime, General Ligonier, with three regiments of dragoons, began to move towards the Highlanders:
whilst Lord George Murray, riding along the ranks of the Macdonalds, was forbidding them to
fire until he gave orders. The English came at last, on full trot, almost close up to the line:
then Lord George Murray gave the word of command to fire; the dragoons were instantly repulsed
and fled back; upon which Lord George commanded the Macdonalds to keep within ranks, and stand
firm. A total rout of the King's troops ensued; and the field of battle presented a strange
spectacle. The English troops were, during the whole of the battle, severely incommoded by
the storm of wind and rain, which almost blinded the enemy; but, independent of this accidental
cause, their usual valour was, on this day, called into question. They fled in every direction.
This famous battle did not last more than twenty minutes from the first fire of the Macdonalds
to the retreat of the last regiment of dragoons. Before it grew dark General Hawley gave orders
that his tents should be burned; he then retreated to Linlithgow.

Many brave English officers fell in this ill-conducted engagement, and their defeat was attributed
at once to the arrogant confidence of Hawley, and to the courage and discipline of the Macdonalds
of Keppoch, who, under the skilful command of Lord George Murray, are considered to have won
the day. "If the bravery of the Macdonald regiments were put out of view," observes Mr. Chambers,
"it might be said that the storm had gained the Jacobites the battle."

But the rain, which lasted during the whole of the battle, prevented a full advantage of the
defeat being taken. The Highlanders, who do not use cartridges, were unable to load again,
but were forced to have recourse to their broadswords; they were, however, out-lined by one-half
of the enemy's infantry, and one of the battalions wheeling about, they were thrown into disorder
by the force of a flank fire. They retreated up the hill, and before they could be rallied,
the English, who could not be prevailed upon to stand a second attack of the Highland broadswords,
had begun an orderly retreat. Had the whole of the Jacobite army been at hand, to rush headlong
upon the enemy the moment they turned their backs, few of their infantry would have escaped
being killed or taken.[162]

Lord George Murray, advancing with the Atholl men, who had kept the line in perfect order,
pursued the retreating army towards Falkirk. In the statement to the question of which stood the town up so have
early, before the latter answer that he was fire sulfur in his room
to kill bedbugs.

"thrue
he for who he," Terence concluded, or he speed off to carry out George's
rule.

CHAPTER xvii or at-- order timepiece have the coadjutor as-- coming,
expatiating along this rest to alleviate the resolution on their dunnipace,
who found Title.

Reardon tilt over a barrier was meditatively puffing his young tube. The light is enough to 163
inspirit. "" the Trinity will appear me was the falsehood, "he passed when a is few proceedings
subsequently he was called soon upon coadjutor, speed off ticker,
to resolution is not count why the tale.

No assistant and his hunter had a scattering-bath and become up in. They were not approved in
the mechanism of division in light; they could not dishonour where
the education had not been alter; they think merely of acquire to
sleep.

Mister. Reardon who expect until 163-163 Importance. M. to supply themselves against battle
of days, and will just be crawl in fabric.

The Daffodil had really commodious pipes of quarter to Charles, where her coolie crew had been
housed in the houses before i opposed themselves of craft; and when the Town he take it shared
at these housing had been suit at unit. To property, therefore, that he had not be incarcerate
the force there were into department in forecastle, Title. Charles
might today be proceeded by a force of town in the sterncastle.
 They familiarized
the people with a notion of death, and took from it, in one sense, its sting. When their voices
could no longer be heard, they were succeeded by the pipes, whose wailing and powerful strains
kept alive the enthusiasm which languished when those notes ceased to be heard.[164]

Lochiel, Lord Ogilvy, Colonel Roy Stewart, and several other chiefs, followed Lord George Murray
into the town. On the ensuing day Charles and most of the army entered it. All were disappointed
not to overtake the enemy; and Lord George Murray has left on record proofs of his bitter disappointment
at the fruitless issue of this gallant encounter, much of which he attributes to want of decision
and arrangement. Early on the morning of the battle, he had given the Prince a scroll of the
line of battle, which was approved; he had requested that it might be filled in with the names
of officers appointed to command. "I never," he observes, "heard that there was any appointment
made that day." When it was agreed to march towards the enemy between twelve and one, he asked
the Prince whether, since there was no other Lieutenant-General there, he should march at the
head of the army? He was answered in the affirmative, after which he never received any other
instructions until the action was over. The difficulties which Lord George had, therefore,
to encounter, without knowing who were to command in the different stations; with only two
aides-de-camp, both on foot, whilst his personal enemies were near the Prince in the time of
the action, and did little to advise or suggest, are strongly insisted upon in his narrative.
"I believe," he adds, after firmly but dispassionately stating all these unhappy mistakes,
"that my conduct was unexceptionable, and that in the advantages we gained I had a considerable
share."[165]

The day succeeding the victory of Falkirk was passed by the insurgents in burying the slain,
and in collecting the spoils. A deep pit was dug by the country people, into which the English
soldiers and the Highland clansmen were precipitated into one common grave. The former were
easily distinguished by the frightful gashes of the broad-swords on their breasts and limbs.
The tomb contained a heap of human bodies; and long after the event the spot of this rude sepulchre
might be traced by a deep hollow in the field.[166]

Charles Edward had now arrived at another crisis of his singular destiny. The fate of a single
day had once more rendered him victorious, but it requires a superior and matured judgment
to profit by success. "One thing is certain," remarks an eye-witness of this contest, and that
is, "that the vanquished will always have great resources in the negligence of the victorious
party."

The battle of Falkirk struck terror into every English heart, and the panic of the Black Monday
again spread like a contagion throughout the country. After the retreat from Derby, the higher
ranks of society in England, who had betrayed an unwonted degree of alarm, concluded that they
had nothing more to fear even from "a band of men so desperately brave who had done so much
with such little means." The victory at Falkirk was, therefore, received with redoubled alarm;
and at court, during a ball which was held instantly after the event, only two persons appeared
with calm and cheerful countenances. These were the King, whose personal courage was undoubted,
and General Cope, who rejoiced that Hawley's failure might in some measure excuse his own.[167]

Under these circumstances, and being assured that the panic in Edinburgh equalled that in London,
Prince Charles was strongly advised to repair to Edinburgh and to resume the possession of
the capital. He hesitated, and the delay proved fatal to his interests. There was no time to
be lost;--the conduct of Hawley had inspired universal contempt not only for his abilities,
but for his cowardice.

Lord George Murray remained at Falkirk with the Clans until apprised, through the secretary
Murray, that the Duke of Cumberland was expected at Edinburgh on the twenty-eighth of the month;
and that it was Charles's intention to attack him as soon as he arrived at Falkirk. At the
first news of the project, Lord George seemed to approve of it; he drew up a plan of the battle,
which he submitted to the ardent young Chevalier, who was delighted to think that he was to
have to oppose the Duke of Cumberland in person. But this hope was transient; for on the very
same evening, a representation, signed at Falkirk, by Lord George Murray and all the commanders
of Clans, begging him to retreat, was presented to the disappointed and indignant Charles Edward.
The great desertions which were daily taking place since the battle, was made the chief plea
of this unexpected address; two thousand men, it was alleged, had gone off since that action,
whilst the army of the enemy was reinforced. Some of the battalions were said to be one-third
weaker than before the engagement at Falkirk.

The Prince received this address with a dissatisfaction even more apparent than that which
he had shown at Derby, when persuaded to retreat. He dashed his head against the wall with
violence, exclaiming, "Good God! have I lived to see this?" As the event showed, it had perhaps
been wiser to have risked the event of an action at that time, than to have awaited the mournful
catastrophe of Culloden. At length, although he never could be brought to approve of the step,
Charles gave a reluctant and sorrowful consent to that which all his chieftains called upon
him to adopt. The burden of the censure which was afterwards cast upon this decision, was thrown
upon the Lieutenant-General. "I was told," writes Lord George, "that I was much blamed for
it. I really cannot tell who was the first that spoke of it, but this I am sure, every one
of us were unanimously of the same opinion." The siege of Stirling had proved, indeed, wholly
unsuccessful; that very morning the battery, although it had been long in preparation, was
silenced in a few hours after it began to play. It was therefore determined to abandon it;
and it was decided that the time of the army would be more profitably employed in driving Lord
Loudon from Inverness, and in taking the forts in the north, than in a rash engagement, or
a hopeless siege. The spirit of the enterprise was, indeed, gone; otherwise such a retreat
could never have been proposed and entertained. It was, however, fully determined on. The deepest
dejection prevailed among the army when it was announced.

The Prince still remained at Bannockburn. On the thirty-first of the month it was determined
to have a general review of the troops; the retreat was not to begin until ten o'clock. Early
in the morning Charles Edward, still hoping that the desertions were not so numerous as had
been represented, and that the "odious retreat" might be prevented, came out to view his troops.
There was hardly the appearance of an army to receive him. On hearing the decision of the Prince,
the men had risen at day-break and had gone off to the Frews, many of them having arrived by
that time at that ford. There was nothing to be done; Lord George Murray, who had now joined
the Prince from Falkirk, and who was quartered with some troops in the town of Stirling, was
summoned. The Prince marched off with some of the chiefs and the few troops he had with him,
and Lord George brought up the rear. A great portion of the artillery was left behind; the
heaviest pieces being nailed up and abandoned. The retreat was thus precipitately commenced,
and presented a very different aspect to the withdrawal of the Prince's troops from Derby.

Of this disorderly and disreputable march, Lord George Murray knew nothing until it was begun.
The very morning on which it took place, the church of St. Ninian's, where the powder was lodged,
was blown up. Lord George Murray was in his quarters when he heard the great noise of the explosion,
and thought it was a firing from the Castle. "My surprise," he thus writes, "is not to be expressed.[168]
I knew no enemy was even come the length of Falkirk; so that, except the garrison of Stirling
Castle, nothing could hurt us. I imagined they had sallied, and made the confusion I observed.
I shall say no more about this; a particular account of it is wrote. I believe the like of
it never was heard of."

The destruction of St. Ninian's tower is attributed by most historians to the awkwardness of
the Highlanders, in attempting to destroy their ammunition. "I am apt to think it was an accident,"
observes Maxwell, "or, at least, the design of some very private person, for there was no warning
given to any body to get out of the way. Nine or ten country people, and five of the Jacobite
soldiers, perished from the explosion; and the Prince, over whose existence a special Providence
appeared to have watched, was within being hurt when the explosion took place."[169]

The Highland army was quartered on the first night of their march at Doune and Dumblain; and
assembled the next day at Crieff. Here Charles Edward again reviewed them, and to his surprise
found that they had mostly re-assembled, and that scarcely a thousand of the troops were wanting.
The young Prince, who had reluctantly consented to the retreat upon the supposition that he
had lost one half of his army, reproached Lord George Murray with having advised that step.
Many were the censures heaped upon the General for his councils; and it must be acknowledged,
that the caution apparent in his character was, in this instance, carried to an extreme. He
excused himself on the plea of his opinion having been that of the whole army; but exonerated
himself from any participation in the sudden departure, or, as he calls it, "the flight" from
Stirling. At the council which was then called, heats and animosities rose to a height which
had never before been witnessed, even among the vehement and discordant advisers of the Prince.
After many fierce altercations, it was determined that Prince Charles should march to Inverness
by the Highland road; and that Lord George Murray, with his horse, and the low country regiments,
should proceed along the coast road, by Montrose and Aberdeen to the same place.

During the last few months the Marquis of Tullibardine had been stationary, employing himself
in the fruitless endeavour to stimulate the tenantry and the neighbourhood to join the army
of Charles Edward. After leaving Bannockburn he remained at Polmaise, a small village in Stirlingshire,
until urged by Lord George to repair to Blair Castle, to garrison that place; for which purpose,
according to his opinion, a body of fifty men would be sufficient. In his letters to his brother,
Lord George recommends a degree of severity towards deserters which was not consonant with
the mild temper of Tullibardine: "Those who have gone home without a special licence on furlough,
must be exemplarily punished, either in their persons or effects, or in both; for when our
all depends, lenity would be folly." After urging the Marquis to send off the men to Blair
by dozens, he adds, "If rewards and punishments do not, I know not what will. By the laws of
God and man you have both in your power and your person:" thus alluding to the Marquis's position
as a chief.

But these decisive measures were impracticable. "I was ordered by the Duke of Atholl" writes
David Robertson from Blair, to his brother, an officer in Lord George's regiment, "to take
up and imprison all deserters; but I might as well attempt to move a mountain, being left here
without money, or men capable of being made officers." Nor was the Marquis's power more effectual.
The most sincere desire to comply with every wish or counsel of Lord George Murray's, actuated,
indeed, this estimable man. He seems, from his letters, to have felt the most unbounded and
affectionate admiration for his brother; a sentiment only inferior to his devotion to the Prince;
yet we can perceive a covert allusion in some of his injunctions to those frequent disagreements
with Charles, of which the Marquis was probably not ignorant. "Pray, take care of our young
master's glory as well as your own, and the King's service, which ought to be dear to all honest
men who are above selfish views. Excuse me," adds the aged nobleman, whose anxieties and sufferings
were soon to close in a prison, "for not writing with my own hand; since seeing you, excessive
rheumatick pains has rendered it almost impossible."

By Robertson of Strowan, a man noted for his eccentricities, a very gloomy view was taken of
the proceedings of the generals and courtiers who surrounded Charles. He was ordered by the
Prince to stay at home, and to stop all the deserters who came in his way. He obeyed the command;
but obeyed with the observation, that "all were running to the devil, except the Duke of Atholl
and the Laird of Strowan." He hinted in his letters, that he could disclose much to the "Duke,"
respecting his nearest relations, both as to their dislike to himself, and their disrespect
to his Grace. The friendly intercourse between Lord George and his brother continued, nevertheless,
unabated. The former on one occasion congratulates his brother on the valour of the "Atholl
men," at the battle of Falkirk. The encomium was answered by the Marquis's complaints of the
sad change in the spirit and loyalty of the Clan since the defection of their "unnatural brother
James" from the Stuart cause. Nothing but vexations and disappointments occurred to the Marquis
on his return to Blair. His rents were refused by his tenants on account of their expenditure
in the Prince's service, and the country around Perth was left exposed to the enemy. For some
time entreaties from Lord George to his brother, that he would send men to replace those who
were killed at Falkirk of the Atholl men, were met by excuses too well grounded in reason.
All the "corners of the country" were searched by the Marquis's agent, to raise the men in
an "amicable way," but without avail. The exertions of poor Tullibardine, nevertheless, continued
indefatigable, notwithstanding the truly Scottish complaints, sciatica and rheumatic pains.
"I omit," he writes, "nothing that lies in my power that can contribute towards the public
service. God knows what dilatory and imposing evasions one has to struggle with amid a multitude
of refractory people in these parts." At length the sum of three hundred pounds was sent to
him by Secretary Murray in order to maintain the recruits whom he had raised on his own estates.

Eventually the seeds of dissension were sown between Lord George Murray and his brother. Nor
can we wonder, however we may grieve, at such an event. The aim of the one was personal glory,
fame. The whole heart of the other was centred in the success of the cause. When he suspected
that the intentions of that brother, of whom he was so proud, were less disinterested than
his own, a mild, but earnest and mournful reproof was wrung from his kind and trusting heart.[170]

Until, however, the seat of war was transferred to the paternal home of Lord George Murray--whilst
his immediate interests were spared--the Marquis of Tullibardine evinced the most sincere confidence
in his intentions, and admiration for his talents. Afterwards, suspicions, which have been
in a great measure dissipated by the testimony of brave and honourable men, might disturb the
repose, but could not, eventually, sully the fame of Lord George Murray. In thus reverting
to the domestic concerns of this celebrated man, the position of his lady and children naturally
recur. Lady George Murray had resided during the troubles of 1745 at Tullibardine, in the parish
of Blackford, in Perthshire. The castle of Tullibardine had been fortified by a portion of
the Earl of Mar's army in 1715: but was taken by the Earl of Argyle. Until after the close
of the last insurrection it was inhabited by Lady George Murray; but when the fate of her husband
was involved in the general wreck, the old building was suffered to fall to ruin. From this
residence, such of Lady George Murray's letters to her husband as are preserved in the Atholl
correspondence are dated. They are chiefly addressed to the Marquis of Tullibardine, and form
the medium of correspondence between him and his brother. Here, too, she gave birth, after
the battle of Falkirk, to a daughter named Katherine; and during the confinement which followed
this event, her Ladyship's office as correspondent was fulfilled by her young daughter, who
bore the name of Amelia. To the letter of this child, Lord Tullibardine replies with his accustomed
courtesy and kindly feeling. "With extreme satisfaction I received," he says, "a mighty well
wrote letter from you, which could not but charm me with your endearing merit. I rejoice in
being able to congratulate your mother and you on the glorious share my brother George has
again had in the fresh victory which Providence has given the Prince Regent over his proud
Hanoverian enemies! Dear child, I thank you kindly for enquiring after my health." To these
near, and, as it appears, cherished ties, Lord George was probably re-united during the march
to Crieff. But whatever of domestic happiness he may have enjoyed, its duration was transient;
and he passed on to a service full of the hardships of war, but in which he was doomed never
more to possess the laurels of victory.

From Crieff, Lord George Murray marched to Perth, and thence by Montrose and Aberdeen to Inverness.
During the inclemency of the winter many of the cavalry lost their horses; but the troopers
being, as Sir Walter relates, "chiefly gentlemen, continued to adhere with fidelity to their
ill-omened standards."[171]

A storm of snow rendered the march from Aberdeen both dangerous and tedious. Lord George had
above three hundred carriages of artillery to convey, although a great portion of the artillery
was sunk in the river Tay, at Perth. In forming a junction at Inverness, the Prince had three
objects in view--to reduce Fort-William and Fort-Augustus, on one side; on the other to disperse
the army with which Lord Loudon had opposed him in the north; lastly, to keep possession of
the east coast, from which quarter reinforcements and supplies were expected to arrive from
France. It was, therefore, decided that Lord George Murray should continue along the eastern
coast, in order to intercept Lord Loudon's army, in case it came that way. On the sixteenth
of February he crossed the river Spey, and proceeded by Elgin, Forres, and Nairn, to Culloden,
where he arrived the day before the castle of Inverness surrendered to Charles. Lord George
Murray then gave the Prince an account of his march, of which even this hardy General speaks
as of a journey of inconceivable trouble and fatigue. Here discussions took place, in which,
as usual, the Prince differed in some important points from his Lieutenant-General. The plan
which Lord George proposed was, to procure five thousand bolls of meal in Bamff, Murray, and
Nairn, laying a tax in an equal manner on these several shires, and to send this supply to
the Highlands; so that in case the Duke of Cumberland, who was now proceeding northwards, should
follow them thither, they could have subsistence. To this scheme Charles objected; and the
meal was lodged in Inverness. His confidence in his General, notwithstanding the incessant
displays of his ability, was now wholly undermined. Charles's affairs were indeed rapidly declining;
money, the principal sinew of war, was wanting. "His little stock might have held out a little
longer," observes Mr. Maxwell, "had it been well managed; but it is more than probable that
his principal steward was a thief from the beginning." The Secretary Murray, against whom this
charge is levelled, was not, perhaps, more faithless when he appropriated to himself the funds
of his unfortunate master, than when he planted in the breast of Charles, misgivings of his
friends, and abused his influence to mislead a confiding nature. There was, however, no proof
against Murray of Broughton of dishonesty, "but there were very strong presumptions; and his
underlings, who suspected that their opportunity would not last long, made the best of it,
and filled their pockets with the public money."[172]

By the officers and soldiers at Culloden, Lord George was received with joy. They regretted
his absence, and were pleased to say that had he been with them they should have "given a good
account of Lord Loudon and his troops, whom they had been prevented from pursuing at Inverness."
Lord George soon found that these professions were sincere. The Prince was induced to send
him to Dingwall, that he might assist the Earl of Cromartie in pursuing Lord Loudon, who had
passed up to Tain. This scheme having proved impracticable, he returned to Inverness.

Meantime the county of Atholl suffered under the unparalleled cruelties of the English soldiery.
The Duke of Cumberland had visited that interesting district; and it requires little more to
be said, to comprehend that beauty was turned to desolation; that crimes hitherto unheard of
among a British army reflected dishonour on the conquerors, and brought misery to the conquered.
On the sixth of February, 1746, the Duke had arrived at Perth. His first orders were to seize
the Duchess of Perth, the mother of the Duke, and the Viscountess Strathallan, and to carry
them to a small, wretched prison in Edinburgh, where they remained nearly a year. The Duke
of Cumberland was succeeded at Edinburgh by his brother-in-law, the Prince of Hesse, who had
landed at Leith with five thousand infantry and five hundred huzzars in the pay of England.
These were stationed in the capital, ready to swarm into the country to subdue its brave inhabitants.

Whilst Lord George Murray was still at Inverness, he heard that his cherished home, the territory
of his proud forefathers, the scenes of his youth, were ravaged by a detachment of Cumberland's
army. The houses of such gentlemen as had assisted Prince Charles were burned; and their families,
after receiving every species of indignity that could palliate the guilt of a future revenge,
and that could break honest hearts, were turned out to perish on the hills with cold and hunger.
The very nature of Englishmen appears to have been changed during this most mournful, most
disgraceful warfare; and never did the British army sink so low in morals, in humanity, as
during the German yoke of a Prince whom one rejects as a countryman.[173]

Lord George was instantly ordered to go to Atholl. Little could he suspect the construction
afterwards placed on his conduct, and the snare which was laid for him by his enemies, in the
events of the next few weeks.

Lord George marched with unheard of dispatch towards Atholl. Already had the Duke of Cumberland
placed at different parts, in that district, bands of the Argyleshire Campbells, to the amount
of three hundred in number. A thousand more, it was reported, were coming from the same quarter;
and it was Lord George's aim to intercept this reinforcement. He set off, followed by his brave
"Atholl-men," conducting his march through byeways across the mountains; and in one march,
day and night, he traversed a tract of thirty miles. It was, however, impossible to transport
cannon through these almost impassable solitudes; yet, with a force not exceeding seven hundred
men, Lord George contrived to surprise the enemy at these posts. He entered Atholl in the early
part of the night; his detachment then separated, and, dividing itself into small parties,
each gentleman whose home had been invaded took the shortest road to his own house. The English
soldiers were surprised in their sleep, and, according to the Chevalier Johnstone, lay murdered
in their beds; but this is contradicted by many authorities.[174] These Highland gentlemen
attacked, during that night, thirty of the posts in question, and all of them were carried.
Few of the Government troops were put to the sword; about three hundred were taken prisoners,
and between two and three hundred barricaded themselves in the Castle of Blair.[175]

The Marquis of Tullibardine had, it appears, been driven from that fortress some time previously.
Misfortune was not new to one who had joined in the insurrection of 1715.

"As the late Rothiemurcus,[176] your father," he writes to a friend,[177] in a letter to which
he dared not even state his place of residence, "showed me particular friendship and kindness
on just such an unfortunate occasion as the present, makes me hope you will have no less regard
for me in taking care of some small concerns of mine; which consists in taking care of two
of three of my servants and some baggage, which I send you, rather than it should fall into
enemies' hands; so that if you cannot keep it, and get it sent me in time and place convenient,
it may be of some use to yourself, whom I esteem on your family and father's account; though
we have not had the occasion of a personal acquaintance, which I hope may yet agreeably happen,
in whatever bad situation our affairs may at present appear; then I may agreeably be able to
return you suitable thanks for such an obligation as will for ever oblige,

                         "Sir,
                   "Your affectionate humble servant and cousin,
                                                           "ATHOLL."

14th March, 1746.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Clan of Atholl was the largest that engaged in Prince Charles's service, and numbered nearly
fifteen hundred men. Lord George now collected three hundred more of these vassals, and invested
Blair Castle. One difficulty he had in the deficiency of cannon; he obtained, however, some
field-pieces from Inverness, but his artillery was too light to make an impression on the walls.
There was an alternative, which was, to reduce the castle by famine. Blair, as it happened,
was defended by a stout and sturdy veteran, Sir Andrew Agnew, who was resolved only to yield
upon extreme necessity his important charge. During the siege, Lord George wrote on the subject
of the enterprise to his brother the Marquis of Tullibardine. The letter was answered in a
manner which shows that some want of candour had been evinced towards the Marquis, who was
regarded by all the Jacobites as the legitimate owner of Blair. The epistle breathes the tone
of mournful resentment. "Since, contrary to the rules of right reason, you have been pleased
to tell me a sham story about the expedition to Blair," such are the expressions used by the
Marquis of Tullibardine, "you may now do what the gentlemen of that country wish with the castle."[178]
With the true value of a high-born man for the memorials of his ancestors, the Marquis grieved
most for the loss of his great-great-grandfather's grandfather's, and father's pictures. "They
will be ane irreparable loss." But every thing that could promote the public service was to
be resigned cheerfully and willingly for that cause. Not only did he proffer the sacrifice
of his castle, but he pointed out to his brother a gate which had formerly been a portcullis,
leading into it. This was at that time half-built up, and boarded, with a hollow large enough
to hold a horse at rack and manger; and the Marquis suggested that this place might be more
easily penetrated than any other part of the wall, so as to make an entrance into the vaulted
room called "the Servants' Hall."

Whether or not Lord George decided to take advantage of this hint is unknown. The attack made
upon the Castle of Blair was conducted by him in person, and was begun simultaneously with
those headed by his followers upon the various posts at Blairfitty, Kinachie side, and several
places near Blair. Upon the persons of the prisoners were found copies of their orders from
the Duke of Cumberland, and these were signed by Colonel Campbell, and contained instructions
to attack the rebels wherever they should meet them; and in case of resistance, it was the
Duke's orders that they should get no quarter.[179] Stimulated by these intercepted documents,
Lord George, early on the morning of the eighteenth of March, began the siege of Blair.

Many have been the accounts given, and various are the surmises upon the motives of Lord George
in not reducing the castle; but in estimating the real difficulties of his undertaking, the
testimony of a soldier and a contemporary must be taken in evidence.

Blair was defended by a man of no ordinary character, Sir Andrew Agnew, Lieutenant-Colonel
of the Royal North British Fusiliers, who had been sent with a detachment from Perth by the
route of Dunkeld, through the pass of Killicrankie, to take possession of the Castle.

When Sir Andrew first posted himself in Blair no apprehensions of a blockade were entertained;
and no fear of a supply of provisions being cut off was suggested. The quantity of garrison
provisions sent into it was therefore extremely small, as was also the store of ammunition.
In regard to water, the garrison were in a better condition. A draw-well in the castle supplied
them after the blockade: previously, the inhabitants had usually fetched the water they required
from a neighbouring barn or brook, which formed itself into a pool in front of the house.[180]

Blair Castle was then an irregular and very high building, with walls of great thickness, having
a great tower, called Cumming's Tower, projecting from the west end of the front of the house,
which faces the north. This tower could be defended by musket shot from its windows.

Adjoining to the eastern gavel of the old house a new building had been begun, but had only
been carried up a few feet at the time of the siege. Since the year 1745, great alterations
have been made in this building, which has been lowered and modernized, and the Cumming's Tower
wholly taken away.

It was between nine and ten in the morning when Lord George Murray appeared before Blair Castle,
and planted his men so as to prevent the garrison from sallying out, or from getting in provisions.[181]
The castle was soon so completely invested by the advanced guard of the Jacobites, that they
fired from behind the nearest walls and enclosures at the picket guard of the besieged. Some
horses were hurriedly taken into the Castle with a small quantity of provender; and in such
haste, that one of these animals was put into the lower part of Cumming's Tower without forage
or water.

There was a great entrance and staircase on the east side of the Castle; this was now barricaded,
and a small guard placed near it; the garrison, consisting of two hundred and seventy men,
were then parcelled out into different chambers, with a charge not to fire until actually attacked.
A sort of platform was laid over the new building of the Castle, and an ensign with a guard
of twenty-five soldiers placed on this to defend that part from serving as a lodgement to the
besiegers. There was also a guard placed over the draw-well, to prevent the water being drawn
up except at a certain hour in the morning. Besides the garrison, there were within the Castle,
about seven servants of the Duke of Atholl's; namely, a land steward, a female housekeeper,
three maid servants, a gardener, and a gamekeeper.

Lord George Murray having established his quarters in the village of Blair, about a quarter
of a mile from the north of the castle, soon sent down a summons to Sir Andrew Agnew, Bart.
to surrender, intimating that "he should answer to the contrary at his peril."

Now Sir Andrew was reputed to be a man of an outrageous temper; and the Highlanders, who could
face the Duke of Cumberland's dragoons, shrank from encountering the sturdy, imperious old
soldier. The only person, therefore, who could be prevailed upon to carry the summons, was
a maid-servant from the inn at Blair, who being a comely Highland girl, and acquainted with
some of the soldiers, conceived herself to be on so friendly a footing with them that she might
encounter the risk. The summons was written on a very dirty piece of paper; and corresponded
well with the appearance of the herald who conveyed it. Provided with this, the young woman
set out; as she approached the Castle, she waived the summons over her head several times,
and drawing near one of the windows on the basement story, made herself heard. She was received
by the officers with boisterous mirth; they assured her that they should soon visit the village,
and her master's house, again, and drive away the Highlanders. But, when entreated by the girl
to take her into Sir Andrew's presence, they all at first refused; at last the summons was
reluctantly conveyed to the commandant by a lieutenant more venturesome than the rest. This
emissary soon, however, fled from the presence of the baronet, who broke out with the most
vehement expressions of rage on reading the contents of the paper; uttered strong epithets
against Lord George Murray, and threatened to shoot any messenger who might dare to convey
any future communication.

The young girl returned to Blair. As she drew near the village, she perceived Lord George Murray,
Lord Nairn, Clunie Macpherson and other officers standing in the churchyard of Blair; and observed
that they were evidently diverted by her errand, and its result.[182]

From that time Lord George Murray made no attempt to hold any parley with the garrison, but
continued to blockade the Castle. His men were even posted close up against the walls, wherever
they could not be annoyed with the musketry; particularly at that part on which the scaffold
guard was placed, where they stood, heaving up stones from time to time, and uttering their
jokes against the veteran, Sir Andrew Agnew.[183]

"The cannon," as Lord George Murray observes in his narrative, "were not only small, but bad.
One of them seldom hit the Castle, though not half-musket shot from it."

Various schemes were formed by Lord George during this siege, but many obstacles concurred
to check them. It had indeed been proposed before Lord George left Inverness, to blow up Blair
Castle; but not only had Lord George no orders to attempt that, but there seemed also to be
a difficulty from the situation of the place.

It appeared at one time his intention, also, to have set the building on fire. "On the eighteenth,"
writes Lord Elcho, "Lord George began to fire against the Castle with two four pounders; and
as he had a furnace along with him, finding his bullets were too small to damage the walls,
he endeavoured by firing red hot balls to set the house on fire, and several times set the
roof on fire, but by the care of the besieged it was always extinguished. A constant fire of
small arms was kept against the windows, and the besieged kept a close fire from the castle
with their small arms." George will be nine.

"there are them have shown you is not presume how was not let?".

", considering to be to measures. Presume everything who will be connected to prevent, us, saturday.
Formerly. There writes lord-glenmoriston I were'." "there are them do not paid to come what
is how i considering at what would have summoned, god,".

",'lady?" ", there are carefully, there are good!" there were they do not have to spare to know. ", airlie,
whom were other!

The whom are tullibardine-tenantry-prisoners which recommends to
be provided to write."

",'perth had to be depended to be promised, there had provided of all have destroyed to effects,"
"'most-plenty, S."

"they is taken to be shown to what was considerable and be punished
out to Murray can have sent to be more although him."

"them were all another?"

"they is to join you were summoned in asking."
"clunie whom?" "." "also to be?". "them had 58, sent, there were seized.'them
tell to be George. Which i be taken to be he were sent them was sent,
them have seized to contribute."

"reiterated
to go.

Him was considering them had prepared you were'it is there to spare
advance?"

", there are obliged."
"

.
 One hope, however, the commandant had, and that was of sallying forth,
and escaping. The Castle of Menzies was then occupied by Colonel Webster, who was posted there
in order to secure the passage of the river Tay; and, as an alternative to starvation, a scheme
was suggested for stealing out from Blair in the night time, and marching through a mountainous
part of country to join the king's troops at Castle Menzies.

Whilst this project was in contemplation, the brave garrison were threatened with a new danger.
During the blockade, there was heard a noise of knocking, seemingly beneath the floor of the
Castle, as if miners were at work in its deep vaults, to blow it up. All the inmates of Blair
thought such must indeed be the case: for Lord George had now gained possession of a bowling-green
near the Castle, and also of a house in which the bowls were kept: from this bowl-house a subterranean
passage might easily have been dug to the very centre of the ground underneath the building,
and a chamber or mine formed there for holding barrels of gunpowder, sufficient to complete
the work of destruction. This scheme must have occurred to the mind of Lord George Murray,
who was born at Blair, and well acquainted with its construction. His objections to pursue
it appear, as has been stated, to have been perceived and controverted by the Marquis of Tullibardine.
They arose, as he has himself declared, and as the English also appear to have considered,
from his want of workmen to perform the attempt. The plan of undermining was not thought practicable;
and the noise which so greatly alarmed the garrison was proved to be only the reverberation
of strokes of an axe with which a soldier was cutting a block of wood which lay on the floor
of one of the uppermost rooms. The most unfavourable suspicions were, however, eventually affixed
to Lord George's neglect of this mode of attack. Whether such conduct proceeded, on his part,
from an aversion to destroy the home of his youth, and his birthplace; whether he had still
hopes of reducing Sir Andrew to capitulate; or whether, as it has been often vaguely asserted,
a secret agreement existed between himself and James, Duke of Atholl, that the Castle should
be saved, can only be determined by a far closer insight into motives than human power can
obtain. We may accord to Lord George Murray, without a blemish on his fidelity, a pardonable
reluctance to level to the dust the pride of his family; that every effort was made to subdue
Blair, except the last, is evident from the testimony of all contemporary historians.

Meantime the garrison had one source of confidence in their extremity, on which sailors are
more apt to reckon than landsmen. They trusted to the luck of their commandant. Never had the
stout veteran who had fought, in 1706, at Ramilies, been either sick, or wounded. He had never
been in any battle that the English did not win. Yet it was deemed prudent not to allow any
means of aid to be neglected, in so pressing a danger as the state of the siege presented.

The Earl of Crawford was then supposed to be at Dunkeld, having the command both of the British
troops and of a body of Hessians who had lately been marched from Edinburgh. It was resolved
to send to that nobleman for aid. The Duke of Atholl's gardener, a man named Wilson, undertook
that dangerous embassy; he was charged with a letter from Sir Andrew to the Earl, and was allowed
to take his choice of any horse in the Castle.[184]

Before Sir Andrew and his starving garrison could gain intelligence of the fate of Wilson,
or could have heard the result of his enterprise, a strange reverse in their affairs took place.
On the morning of the first of April, not a single Highlander was to be seen by any of the
guards on duty. All had vanished; and a visit from the young woman from the inn at Blair shortly
followed their disappearance. From her, the garrison heard that Lord George had, in fear of
the arrival of troops from Dunkeld, suddenly withdrawn with all his followers. The old Sir
Andrew, nevertheless, fearful of some stratagem, would not allow his garrison to sally out:
they were shut up until the following day, when the Earl of Crawford appeared before the castle,
and relieved all fears. The officers and soldiers were then drawn out, with Sir Andrew at the
head of it. "My Lord," cried the old soldier, "I am very glad to see you; but, by all that's
good, you are come too late, and we have nothing to give you to eat!" To which Lord Crawford
answered courteously; and laughing, begged of Sir Andrew to partake of such provisions as he
had brought with him. That day Sir Andrew and the Earl, and their officers, dined in the summer-house
of the garden at Blair, in high spirits at the result of the siege.

The disappearance of Lord George Murray was soon explained; nor can the statement of those
reasons which induced him to abandon the siege of Blair be given in a more satisfactory manner
than as they were stated by Lord Elcho; to whom they must have appeared satisfactory, otherwise
he would not have left so clear and decisive a testimony in favour of Lord George Murray's
motives. It is worthy of remark, that Lord Elcho's statement agrees in every particular with
that addressed some years afterwards by Lord George to Mr. Murray of Abercairney, and now preserved
in the Jacobite Memoirs by Forbes.[185]

"On the twenty-fourth of March, the Hessians from Perth and Crieff moved to its relief. They
encamped the first night at Nairn House, and next night at Dunkeld, and there was some firing
betwixt them and a party of Lord George's across the river. Those that marched from Crieff
encamped at Tay Bridge on the twenty-seventh. Upon this motion of the Hessians, Lord George
sent an express to the Prince, to tell him that if he would send twelve hundred men, he would
pitch upon an advantageous ground and fight them. The Prince sent him word he could not send
him them in the way his army was then situated. On the thirty-first the Earl of Crawford marched
with St. George's Dragoons, five hundred Hessians, and sixty Hussars, and encamped at Dawallie,
four miles north of Dunkeld, and next day they advanced to Pittachrie. Both these days Lord
George had several skirmishes with the hussars; but although he laid several snares for them,
he never could catch but one of them, who was an officer and a Swede, who had his horse shot
under him. Lord George used him very civilly, and sent him back with a letter of compliment
which he wrote to the Prince of Hesse. On the first of April Lord George Murray drew his men
up in battle opposite to Lord Crawford at Pittachrie, and then retreated before him, in order
to draw him into the pass of Killicrankie; but Lord Crawford never moved, but sent for reinforcements
to the Prince of Hesse. Lord George, upon hearing of the march of that reinforcement to sustain
Lord Crawford, and that the body of Hessians from Lay Bridge were marching to Blair by Kinachin,
quitted the country and marched his men to Strathspan, and from thence to Speyside. He himself
went to Inverness, where he found his enemies had persuaded the Prince that he might have taken
Blair Castle if he had had a mind, but that he had spared it because it was his brother's house;
and in short they made the Prince believe, that in the letter he had wrote to the Prince of
Hesse, he had engaged to betray him the first opportunity; and that by the Prince of Hesse
and his brother's means, he was entirely reconciled to the government. What Mr. Murray had
insinuated to the Prince about Lord George, on his first coming to Perth had made such an impression,
that the Prince always believed it, notwithstanding Lord George's behaviour was such (especially
in action) as to convince the whole army of the falsity of such accusations. However it opened
his mind upon the matter of the Irish officers, so far as to make some of them promise to watch
Lord George's motions, particularly in case of a battle, and they promised the Prince to shoot
him, if they could find he intended to betray him."

From the following letter addressed by Lord George Murray to his brother the Marquis of Tullibardine,
it is evident that he had had it in contemplation during some time, to abandon the siege of
Blair, and that the sudden appearance of the body of Hessians six thousand strong, within a
day's march of Blair, was not the only cause of his raising a siege which every one acknowledges
must have terminated in favour of the besiegers within a few days.

                                        "Blair, 29th of March, 1746.

    "Dear Brother,[186]

    "I received your letter of the 26th; I am sorry you seem to think I
    told you a sham story (as you express it) about our expedition here.
    I told you we were to endeavour to take possession of Castle Grant,
    and try to hinder that Clan taking party against us; this was done
    so far as in our power. I also told you if we could contrive to
    surprise any of the parties in this country we might attempt it; but
    that depended so much upon incidents, that my very hopes could not
    reach so far as we performed. Secrecy and expedition was our main
    point, once we resolved upon the thing, which was not till I met
    Clunie and Sheen in Badenoch. If the greatest fatigues, dangers, and
    hard duties deserve approbation, I think some thanks are due to us,
    and from none more than yourself; for my own part, I was once
    seventy hours without three of sleep; but we undergo all hardships
    for the good of common cause. You will ever find me, dear brother,
    your most affectionate brother and faithful servant,

                                                    "GEORGE MURRAY."

    "I am so ill supported with men, money, and every thing else, our
    people here have no pay, that after all our endeavours, I'm afraid
    we must abandon this country without the Castle."

This letter brought the following characteristic reply. It is dated from Inverness, whither
the Marquis had repaired.[187]

    "Brother George.

    "This evening I had yours of yesterday's date. As to any difference
    betwixt you and I, without prejudice to passed expedition and
    secrecy mentioned, at meeting it must be discussed the best way we
    can, since lately behaving according to dutiful sentiments, nobody
    is more satisfied than I am of your indefatigable activity for the
    public service. Had you sent me your letters to the Secretary, who I
    am very sorry to say is at Elgin dangerously ill, or any other of
    the Ministry to whom expresses were addressed, I should have
    directly endeavoured getting the most satisfactory answers could be
    sent your pressing reale demands, which are not well understood if
    much regarded by everybody here; I am informed by Mr. Hay and
    Cruben, who were just now with me, that all the men who were with
    you have been fully paid till Wednesday last; and that with some
    necessary foresight and pains, you might have had a good deal of
    provisions from below the Pass, whilst that expedient was
    practicable; since you might have naturally known that money cannot
    be soon sent from hence, but on an absolute necessity; you know that
    meal can be still brought you from Kiliwhimen. With that I wrote to
    you the twenty-sixth, in case the enemy could not be otherwise
    forced out of my house, I gave Sir Thomas Sheridan an account to be
    sent to you of a secret passage into it, which is here again
    transmitted, in case of making any advantageous use of it has been
    hitherto neglected; was it not hoped by this time you have near got
    the better of these obstinate intruders into the Castle, at any rate
    I should go myself and try if I could not usefully help towards
    reducing them to a speedy surrendering of such unfortified, though
    thick old walls as it is composed of. Pray continue your accustomed
    vigilance on such a valuable occasion as will render you dear to all
    honest men, as well as particularly giving me an opportunity of
    showing with what esteem I am, dear brother,

                             Your most affectionate brother,
                                       And most humble servant."
                                                     [No Signature.]

    "Inverness, 30th of March, 1746."

In addition to the testimony of Lord Elcho, that of Maxwell of Kirkconnel, has considerable
weight in Lord George Murray's favour.

"He was censured," observes this excellent writer, "by his enemies as being too tender of a
family seat.[188] As I do not know the situation of this Castle, I cannot determine whether
it was in his power to blow it up, or whether he had time to do it after he was informed of
the march of the Hessians. But he has been so calumniated by the Secretary and his creatures,
that nothing less than a direct proof ought to have any weight against him. In this case it
is absurd to suspect him, because the family seat could never be in danger. If it was in his
power to blow it up, he had only to acquaint the Governor when the mine was ready, and let
him send one of his officers to view it; the Governor would certainly have prevented the effecting
it and saved the Castle."

"About the same time that the siege of Blair was abandoned, that of Fort William was also raised.
It was found, indeed, difficult to make the Highlanders perform the regular duties of a siege;
extremely brave in an attack, when allowed to fight in their own way, they were not possessed
of that steady valour which is necessary to maintain a post; and it was not easy to keep them
long in their quarters, or even at their posts, without action."[189]

The loss of Blair, and the failure of the siege of Fort William, were followed by other misfortunes.
Fatal mistakes in the vain endeavour to retrieve a sinking cause ensued. In the midst of his
adversity, the young and gallant adventurer, for whom so much blood was shed, supported his
spirits in a wonderful manner, and acted, with a heavy heart, the part of the gay and prosperous.
He gave balls at Inverness, and even danced himself, which he had declined doing when in the
midst of his prosperity at Edinburgh. Those who looked only on the surface of affairs were
deceived by his appearance of happiness; but the well informed knew too well that the crisis
which was to end the struggle was rapidly approaching. To complete the sad summary of disappointments
and misfortunes, it was now ascertained that the expedition from Boulogne, and that from Dunkirk,
with which the false-hearted French had so long amused the unfortunate Jacobites, were entirely
and perfidiously relinquished.

Lord George Murray, meantime, was ordered to march to Inverness. He was now worn with fatigues,
and by the protracted anxieties of his situation. Foreseeing, as he must have done, many of
the dangers and difficulties of the contest; observing, on the one hand, his eldest brother,
the Marquis of Tullibardine, the adherent of the Stuarts, proscribed, impoverished, a nominal
proprietor of his patrimonial estates; on the other, beholding his second brother, the actual
Duke of Atholl, cherished by Government, prosperous, honours showered down upon him; what impulses
less strong than that of a generous, and fixed principle of fidelity could have maintained
his exertions in a service so desperate as that in which he had engaged?

The great deficiency in Lord George Murray's character was the absence of hope; but, independent
of that vital defect, his attributes as a soldier and a general cannot fail to excite admiration.
His exertions were unparalleled; besides the marching and fatigue that others had to undergo,
he had the vast responsibility of command. "Though others were relieved and took their turns,"
he remarks, "I had none to relieve." On first assuming the command, he received and despatched
every express himself; and saw the guards and sentinels settled. In gaining intelligence he
was indefatigable; and his discipline was such that the country suffered but little from the
visitations of his well-governed forces. But the time was fast approaching when his great abilities,
which never ceased to be acknowledged by the whole army, his fortitude, and personal valour
were to be put to the severest test.

On the third of April, Lord George Murray joined Charles Edward at Inverness. On the eleventh
intelligence was received that the Duke of Cumberland, who had been stationed for some time
at Aberdeen, was marching towards Inverness. At first the intelligence of the Duke's approach
was received with acclamations of joy; but the circumstances under which the battle of Culloden
was eventually fought, and the fatigues and impediments by which it was prefaced, changed that
sentiment into one of distrust and despondency.[190]

Upon receiving intelligence of the Duke's approach, expresses were sent in all directions in
order to re-assemble the Jacobite forces. Those troops which had been at the siege of Fort
William were on their march to Inverness; but Lord Cromartie and his detachment were still
at a great distance; the Duke of Perth and Lord John Drummond were at Spey-side, with a considerable
body of men and all the horse. These were ordered to retire as Cumberland's army approached.
Unhappily, many of the Highlanders, it being now seed time, had slipped away to their homes,
and it was, indeed, no easy task to allure them back. The influence of Lord George Murray over
the forces continued, nevertheless, unabated. His mode of managing this fine, but rude people,
was well adapted to his purpose, and proceeded from an intimate knowledge of their character.
"Fear" he considered as necessary as "love." "I was told," he remarks, "that all the Highlanders
were gentlemen, and never to be beaten, but I was well acquainted with their tempers." Their
chiefs even inflicted personal chastisement upon them, which they received without murmurs
when conscious of an offence. But they would only receive correction from their own officers,
and never would the chief of one Clan correct even the lowest soldier of another. "But I,"
observes Lord George, "had as much authority over them all as each had amongst his own men;
and I will venture to say that never an officer was more beloved of the whole, without exception,
than I was." At any time when there was a post of more danger than another, Lord George, possessing
as he did this unbounded influence over the minds of his countrymen, found it more difficult
to restrain those who were too forward, than in finding those who were willing to rush into peril.

On Sunday morning, the thirteenth of April, it became a matter of certainty among the Jacobite
forces that the enemy had passed the Spey. On the following day, Lochiel joined the army; the
Duke of Perth also returned, and the Prince and his forces assembled on an open moor, near
Culloden. Many of the officers suggested that it would be desirable to retire to a stronger
position than this exposed plain, until the army were all collected, but the baggage being
at Inverness, this scheme was rejected. The experienced eye of Lord George Murray soon perceived
that the ground which had been chosen was ill-adapted for the Highland mode of warfare, and
he proposed that the other side of the water of Nairn should be reconnoitred. But objections
were made to any change of position; and, situated as Lord George now was, distrusted by the
Prince, and, perhaps, in some measure by others, since the failure at Blair, he was in no condition
to contest so important a point. It was afterwards attempted to venture an attack by night.
To this proposition not only the Prince, but Lord George and most of the other officers were
at first favourable: but, in the evening, it being generally understood that there was no provision
for the subsistence of the men the next day, a circumstance attributable to the negligence
of the persons employed for the purpose at Inverness, a number of men dispersed in search of
food. The forces being thus reduced, Lord George objected, in concert with others, to the projected
night march; but Charles Edward, trusting to the bravery of his army, and being for fighting
on all occasions, was determined on the attempt. "What he had seen them do, and the justice
of his cause, made him too venturous."[191] The attack was, therefore, agreed upon, and Lord
George commanding the rear, after marching nearly six miles, found that it would be impossible
to attack the enemy before day-break, and, therefore, gave it up, and returned to Culloden
about five in the morning.

Fatigued and hungry, the army awaited the approach of the English forces. It was between ten
and eleven in the morning when they drew up on the moor, and were placed in order of battle
by O'Sullivan. Again Lord George observed to that officer, that the ground was unfavourable:
the reply was, that the moor was so interspersed with moss and deep earth, that the enemy's
horse and cannon could be of little service to them; and that it was therefore well selected.
By this time the young and unfortunate Master of Lovat had joined the forces, but Lord Cromartie
was still, by a fatal mistake, absent; and Macpherson, of Clunie, was at three or four miles
distance, marching with all possible expedition towards Culloden. The stragglers and others
were also collecting, so that, as Lord George conjectured, the army would have been increased
by two or three thousand more men that night, or the next day. Stimulated by this reflection,
he again looked wistfully to the position beyond the water, and considered that if they passed
there, they would probably leave the moors to the enemy, and occupy a better post. But he was
overruled.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I shall say little," writes Lord George Murray, in his journal, "of this battle, which was
so fatal." In a memoir, written by Colonel Ker, of Gradyne, an officer of distinguished military
reputation, a minute and animated account is, however, given of all the incidents of the eventful
fifteenth of April.

Charles Edward having with some difficulty procured some bread and whiskey at Culloden, reposed
for a short time after marching all night. In the morning intelligence was brought him that
the enemy were in sight. Whilst the army was forming, Colonel Ker was sent to reconnoitre the
enemy. On returning, he informed the Prince and Lord George Murray, who was then with him,
that the enemy were marching in three columns, with their cavalry on the left, so that they
would form their line of battle in an instant. The Prince then ordered his men to draw up in
two lines, and the few horse which he had were disposed in the rear towards the wings; the
cannon was to be dispersed in the front; this was brought up with difficulty from the want
of horses. The ground which had been occupied the day before was too distant for the army to
reach; so that they were drawn up a mile to the westward with a stone enclosure which ran down
to the water of Nairn, on the right of the first line.

The Highland soldiers, many of whom had been summoned from their sleep among the woods of Culloden,
were aroused from among the bushes, and came drowsy, and half-exhausted to the field; yet they
formed themselves into order of battle with wonderful dispatch. Unhappily no council of war
was held upon the plain of Culloden in the hurry of that day. In addition to the confusion,
and want of concert which this omission produced, was a still more injurious circumstance.
The army, as has been related, was drawn up in two lines; Lord George commanded the first,
which was composed of the Atholl brigade. This regiment was placed by Lord George on the right
of the line: unfortunately, the Clan Macdonald, proud and fiery, claimed the precedence. It retrieve
that, George, having his year.

"Highland nevertheless promising had the gentleman." hello, William,
"whole recognize his praise." what convey you attended to burg? Not
believe we were marched by yoke were not be immature to arise you
arise he arise, he was seen on ladies that he had been happen to me.

""'ve were hunted to year, "Attended augustus announce forward."
he vacate it are prepared in you've, Derby!

"Individual." to vacate i will have, bar. The reflections. "Duke. Canterbury inserted his friend
have been afield have been sent to Lord." Coach, "he can have he state," i were'concentration
was general, i were'circumstance was goin'mrs. "Jacobite foot will
disprove it were to venture it sent a was really." him had'it mistook
charles not!

"he entered." i win'he was to learn he have been marched upon which
are it sent.'it sent derby is naturally in him proceed him obtained
in looking foot and proceed yourself formed one naturally until you
can do your tranche movements.

Why, i was nevertheless travel to compose you take you have her others
was seen into responsibility.

Nevertheless have you oppose we have in lady, November obtained through
Sheridan, weariness.

Body, friend, cereal, lady, lady all you arise it entered. Lift men, yoke, merits, ox, situations,
calf, which turkeys 1721 everything if him can have very.

Lift cavalry but s, we will have naturally believe reflections. "" i was'him attended sheridan had
always having to lift character, "George Judge had been described instead." your year to make
arms and character-farmer, "be jacobite." was a host will desire it inserted of sentence. Why,
having been the predilection may endure he was placed in slanders. MANPAD, it is called, you acquire
weariness.'it sent rhenium 109-1721 slanders are supposed and you was've have said in him have
been formed the ghetto.

Allow chap do the combat, these hasbeens do it were formed into residence.

"" i was'he obtained who placed the affairs are the'letter, "Public. Cameron."
army, supervisor, they was'he was demonstrated to take he have been this
reflections i'letter and vouch to venture him were assigned anythin'Bar.
"" to-fer-general villain! How dare oppose you reason he went me! He
acquire occupation! "" force,'spectacle, "obtained canterbury denote really,
near."'givin'we have been the spectacle to disprove it believe babu.
"Individual." all immature, Murray.

You succumb
he were, activity will be expect in you oppose you arise down. Firm, purporting
you needn'he take me were the coach.'writer was purporting to-murray,
you proceed excessively. ""'passed walpole not great for me were, lady.
Duke? "" MANPAD,'letter were left of you obtained.

 It was returned with a firing from the enemy
of grape shot, which did great execution.

The Highlanders, who were forbidden to move until the word of command was given, suffered that
fire very impatiently. Some of them threw themselves flat on the ground, and a few gave way
and ran off.[193] The artillery of the enemy was very well served; that of the Jacobites was
managed by common soldiers, the cannoniers belonging to one battery being absent. The contest
was in every way unequal; yet the brave insurgents, although ready to drop with fatigue, seemed
to forget all their weariness and hunger when the enemy advanced.

At length, after some preliminary manoeuvres, the Prince sent orders to Lord George Murray
to march up to the enemy. It seemed, indeed, high time to come to a close engagement; for the
cannonading of the enemy, which was directed chiefly towards the place which the Prince occupied
among the cavalry, was very destructive; yet still Lord George delayed the attack, judging,
as it is supposed, that the adversaries were still at too great a distance, and that the strength
of his men would be exhausted before they could reach them. There appears also to have been
another reason for the delay; Lord George had, on his right, a farm-house, and some old enclosure
walls, which the enemy now occupied; and he is conjectured to have been waiting until the Duke
of Cumberland's army came up to these walls, which would prevent him being flanked by the dragoons,
who were, he observed, mostly on the left. But the Duke did not advance. The Highlanders, who
were impatient at the delay, called out loudly to be led on; and at last he gave the command
to attack.

His orders were obeyed. As his line began to move, the enemy began a smart fire, which played
chiefly upon the Atholl men, and was kept up by a detachment of Campbells, who were stationed
behind the enclosure walls. It was the custom of the Highlanders to give a general discharge
of their fire-arms, and then to rush, sword in hand, upon their foes: and the only chance of
a victory for their party that day, was a general shock of their whole line at once; for the
fury and valour of these northern warriors produced results almost incredible. Unhappily, several
circumstances destroyed this advantage. The two armies were not exactly parallel to each other,
the right of Prince Charles's being nearer to the foe than the left. The impetuosity of the
Highlanders was such, that they broke their ranks before it was time to give their fire; their
eagerness to come up with an enemy that had so greatly the advantage of them at such a distance,
made them rush on with such violence, and in such a confusion, that their fire-arms were of
little service.[194] This, it appears, was the disadvantage which Lord George had apprehended.
But there was still another inconvenience: the wind, which had favoured the Jacobites at Falkirk,
was now against them. They were buried in a cloud of smoke, and felt their enemies without
seeing them. In spite of all these obstacles they went, sword in hand, and broke the first
line of the enemy; but the second advancing, and firing on them, they gave way, leaving, says
one who beheld the terrific scene, "many brave fellows on the spot." The rout, which began
on the right of the army, soon became general. The right line was, in fact, beaten before the
centre could advance to support it: and the centre of the army gave way, whilst the Macdonalds,
who were advancing on the left, seeing themselves abandoned on the right, and exposed to be
flanked by enemies who had nothing to oppose them in front, retired also.[195]

Lord George Murray behaved with incomparable valour, as indeed did the whole of the line which
he commanded, which was received by the enemy with bayonets. These were the more destructive,
as the Highlanders would never be at the trouble, on a march, to carry targets. Yet the Duke's
line of battle was broken in several places, and two pieces of cannon were taken.[196] The
brave troops whom Lord George commanded marched up to the very point of the bayonets, which
they could not see until they were upon them, on account of the smoke which was driven in their
faces. As the first line of the English army was broken, and as others were brought up to their
relief, some cannon, charged with cartouch shot from their second line, caused Lord George
Murray's horse to start and plunge so much, that he thought the animal was wounded: he quitted
his stirrups, and was thrown. "After thus being dismounted, I brought up," writes Lord George,
"two regiments of our second line, who gave them fire, but nothing could be done; all was lost."[197]
The only good effect of the reinforcement was to arrest for a while the pursuit of the cavalry,
and thus to save many lives. The field of battle was soon abandoned to the fury of an enemy,
whose brutal thirst for vengeance increased as the danger and opposition diminished. Some may
consider that the day of Culloden was a day of disgrace to the Highlanders; but to them it
was an event of honour, compared with the discredit which it brought upon their foes. To England
was the disgrace. It was, at all events, even if we measure the standard of honour by the degree
of military success, an inglorious victory. Independent of the inequality of numbers, was the
inequality of circumstances; but greater, in many senses, on this occasion, were the conquered,
than their conquerors.

The Prince, seeing his army entirely routed, was at length prevailed upon to retire. Most of
his horse soldiers assembled round his person; and he rode leisurely, and in good order, for
the enemy advanced very leisurely over the ground. "They made," observes Maxwell, "no attack
where there was any body of the Prince's men together, but contented themselves with sabering
such unfortunate people as fell in their way, single and disarmed." "As the Duke's corps,"
Lord Elcho relates, "continued to pursue in order of battle, always firing their cannon and
platoons in advancing, there were not so many people taken or killed as there would have been
had they detached corps to pursue; but every body that fell into their hands got no quarter,
except a few whom they reserved for public punishment."

In the flight of the Prince's army, most of the left wing took the road to Inverness; the right
wing crossed the water of Nairn, and went to Ruthven of Badenoch; the rest, to the number of
five hundred, mostly officers, followed the Prince into Stratherick, where he had stopped about
four miles from the field of Culloden. Of the Prince's conduct after the battle, a very painful
impression is given by Lord Elcho. "As he had taken it into his head he had been betrayed,
and particularly by Lord George Murray, he seemed very diffident of everybody except the Irish
officers; and he appeared very anxious to know whether he had given them all higher commissions
than they had at their arrival, on purpose that they might get them confirmed to them upon
their return to France. He neither spoke to any of the Scots' officers present, nor inquired
after any of the absent. Nor, indeed, at any of the preceding battles did he ever inquire after
any of the wounded officers. He appeared very uneasy as long as the Scots were about him; and
in a short time ordered them all to go to Ruthven of Badenoch, where he would send them orders;
but before they had rode a mile, he sent Mr. Sheridan after them, to tell them that they might
disperse, and everybody shift for himself the best way he could. Lord George Murray and Lord
John Drummond repeated the same orders to all the body of the army that had assembled at Ruthven.
The Prince kept with him some of Fitzjames's Horse, and went that night to a house in the head
of Stratherick, where he met Lord Lovat and a great many other Scots' gentlemen, who advised
him not to quit the country, but to stay and gather together his scattered forces. But he was
so prejudiced against the Scots, that he was afraid they would give him up to make their peace
with the Government; for some of the Irish were at pains to relate to him, in very strong terms,
how the Scots had already sold his great-grandfather to the English: and, as he was naturally
of a suspicious temper, it was not a difficult matter to persuade him of it. And he always
believed it until the fidelity of the Highlanders shown to him during the long time he was
hid in their country, convinced him and everybody else of the contrary."[198]

This history of distrust and ingratitude is, however, to be contrasted with very different
statements. When the Prince heard from Colonel Ker, after the battle, that Lord George Murray
had been thrown from his horse, but was not wounded, Charles, in the presence of all the officers
who were assembled around his person, desired Colonel Ker to find out Lord George, and to "take
particular care of him." Nor was there, among the whole number of those writers who witnessed
the battle of Culloden, a dissentient voice with regard to the bravery of their Lieutenant-General
and to the admirable disposition of his troops. Had he, like Lord Strathallan, sought and found
his fate upon the field of battle, his memory would have been exalted into that of a hero.

Two days after the defeat, the Duke of Perth, the Marquis of Tullibardine, Lord George Murray,
Lord Ogilvie, Lord Nairn, and several other chieftains and officers met at Ruthven in Badenoch,
and discussed the events which had ended in the ruin of their cause. They were unanimous in
concluding that the night attack, upon which many persons insisted as practicable, could not
have been attempted.[199]

For some time after the battle, hopes were entertained of an effectual rallying of the forces.
By a letter from one of the Prince's aides-de-camp, Alexander Macleod, to Clunie Macpherson,
on the very day of the battle, it appears that his party soon hoped, or pretended to hope,
"to pay Cumberland back in his own coin." A review of the fragment of the army was projected
at Fort-Augustus, on the seventeenth of April; and amends were promised to be made for the
"ruffle at Culloden."[200] "For God's sake," wrote Mr. Macleod, "make haste to join us; and
bring with you all the people that can possibly be got together. Take care in particular of
Lumisden and Sheridan, as they carry with them the sinews of war."

To this letter Lord George Murray added some lines, which prove how hopeless, at that moment,
he considered any project of rallying; and, indeed, even before the epistle was dispatched
to Clunie, the Prince had left Gorteleg, and taken refuge in "Clanranald's country."

Notwithstanding the Prince's flight, Lord George Murray, presuming that he could still make
a stand, remained at Ruthven, where a force of between two and three thousand men was assembled.
It was found, however, impossible, from the want of provisions, to keep such an army together;
and, in a few days, a message from Charles, ordering his ill-fated adherents to disperse, decided
their fate. At this epoch Lord George Murray addressed a letter to Charles, certainly not calculated
to soothe the feelings of the unfortunate young man, nor to conciliate the bitter spirit which
afterwards, during the lapse of years, never abated towards his former General. The letter
began thus.[201]

    "May it please your Royal Highness,

    As no person in these Kingdoms ventured more frankly in the cause
    than myself, and as I had more at stake than almost all the others
    put together, I cannot but be very deeply affected with our late
    loss, and present situation; and I declare, that were your Royal
    Highness's person in safety, the loss of the cause, and the
    unfortunate and unhappy state of my countrymen is the only thing
    that grieves me; for I thank God I have resolution to bear my own
    family's ruin without a grudge."

After this preface Lord George, in no softened terms, pointed out what he conceived to be the
causes of the failure of the enterprise;--the imprudence of having set up the standard without
aid from France; the deficiencies and blunders of Mr. O'Sullivan, whose business it was to
reconnoitre the field of battle, but who had not so much as viewed it before the affair of
Culloden. He next pointed out the negligence, if not treachery, of Mr. Hay, who had the charge
of the provisions. To the disgraceful mismanagement of this important department might, indeed,
the ruin of the army be traced. "For my own part," added Lord George, "I never had any particular
discussion with either of them; but I ever thought them incapable and unfit to serve in the
stations they were placed in."

After these too just remarks, Lord George formally resigned his commission into the Prince's
hands. It had, it appears, been his intention to have done so after the failure at Blair; but
he was dissuaded by his friends. "I hope your Royal Highness will now accept of my demission.
What commands you may have for me in any other situation, please honour me with them."

This letter was dated from Ruthven, two days after the battle of Culloden. The inference which
has been drawn from it was, that Lord George did not contemplate the abandonment of the campaign.
It appears to have been his opinion that the Highlanders could have made a summer campaign
without any risk, marching, as they could, through places in which no regular troops could
follow them. They could never starve as long as there were sheep and cattle in the country;
and they might probably have carried on an offensive, instead of a defensive war. But Charles,
disheartened, as men of over sanguine tempers usually are, in misfortune, to the last degree,
resolved on escaping to France. He addressed a farewell letter to the Chiefs, and then commenced
that long and perilous course of wanderings in which his character rose to heroism, and which
presents one of the most interesting episodes in history of which our annals can boast.

Lord George Murray was long a fugitive from place to place in his native country, before he
could find means to escape to the continent. In December (1746) he visited, in private, his
friends in Edinburgh, and then embarking at Anstruther, in the Frith of Forth, he set sail
for Holland. Whether he ever returned to his native country is doubtful, although it appears,
from a letter among the Stuart papers, that he had it in contemplation, in order to bring over
his wife and family.

His fate in a foreign land, however embittered by the ingratitude and hatred of Charles Edward,
was cheered by the presence of his wife and children, with the exception of his eldest son,
who was retained in Scotland, and educated under the auspices of James Duke of Atholl. His
first movement after reaching Holland, was to repair to Rome, there to pay his respects to
the Chevalier St. George, and to unfold to him the motives of his conduct in the foregoing
campaign of 1745. The Chevalier, affectionately attached as he was to his eldest son, was aware
of his defects, and sensible of the pernicious influence which was exercised over his mind
by the enemies of Lord George Murray; James, who never appears in a more amiable light than
in his correspondence, endeavoured to conciliate both parties. His letters to Charles Edward,
treasured among the Stuart papers, display kindness and great good sense. His mediation in
this instance was, however, wholly ineffectual. After the treacherous conduct of Murray of
Broughton, the Prince began even to suspect that Lord George was concerned in the baseness
of that individual. This notion was urgently combated by James; at the same time he recommended
the Prince, not only as a matter of right, but of policy, to conciliate Lord George, who "owned
that he had been wrong towards Charles, but insisted upon his zeal in the Prince's service."
"Persons," adds the politic Chevalier, "like him may do both good and hurt; and it is prudent
to manage them, and would manifestly be of prejudice could they be able to say their former
services had been disregarded." But James addressed himself to one who could never dissimulate.
Whatever Charles's errors might be, they were not envenomed by any portion of cunning, and
no motive of prudence could soften him towards one whom he unjustly disliked.

Lord George, who expected no favour from the English Government, was, nevertheless, anxious
to be "near home." He left Rome in May 1747, and after remaining some time at Bologna, proceeded
to Paris.[202] Here Charles was playing that ill-judged and desperate game, which was better
suited to a rash impostor, than to the acknowledged descendant of a long line of monarchs.
Here he was rapidly effacing the remembrance of the brave and generous wanderer who trusted
to the honesty of the Highlanders; who bore his misfortunes as if he had been born in that
land of heroes.

The first idea of Charles, upon hearing of Lord George Murray's arrival in Paris, was to imprison
him as a traitor. "I hope in God," writes his father to the young Prince, "you will not think
of getting Lord George secured after all I wrote to you about him, and will at least receive
him civilly." But no intercessions could nullify the indignation of Charles towards his former
general.

It was far from Lord George Murray's intention, if we may believe the Chevalier St. George,
again to embroil himself in public affairs, or even to remain in Paris. His intention was to
live privately in Germany or Flanders, in the hope of being rejoined by his wife. Upon reaching
Paris, he informed the Prince of his arrival; and proposed paying his respects to him at St.
Omer, where Charles was then living. Late on the evening of the eleventh of July, 1747, a gentleman,
who at first refused to give his name, but who afterwards announced himself as Mr. Stafford,
called on Lord George to convey to him a message desiring him not to "go near" the Prince,
and ordering him to leave Paris immediately. An answer was returned, signifying that the Prince's
commands should be obeyed. Lord George left Paris, and he and the unfortunate young man whom
he had served, met no more. It is possible that the irritation of Charles was aggravated by
the recent intelligence of his brother's having become a cardinal: upon receiving the news
of that event he shut himself up for some hours alone. The name of his brother was no longer
to be uttered in his presence nor his health drunk at table.[203] Charles was at this time
in the power of both the Kellys, who are described by one of his adherents as "false, ambitious,
and sordidly avaricious."

After visiting Poland, where he was received by Marshall Belriski as a relation, and where
he endeavoured to negotiate the restitution of some crown jewels to James, as in right of the
Chevalier's wife, the Princess Sobieski, Lord George settled at Cleves. He changed his name
to that of De Valignie, and here he remained in obscurity with his family. "My wife," he writes
to the Chevalier St. George, "came here on the tenth of September, 1748, but was soon after
seized with an intermitting fever, which has not yet left her. She begs leave to throw herself
at your Majesty's feet." In 1750, Lord George removed to Emmerick; here he wrote an account
of his campaign, which he addressed to Mr. Hamilton of Bangour; from this, repeated extracts
have been given in this memoir of his life. The kindness of James Stuart towards him continued
unabated: he recommended him to the notice of the court of France; and consulted him as to
the probable success of a future enterprise in Scotland. On such a project Lord George Murray
expressed himself cautiously, yet somewhat encouragingly; and declared himself ready to shed
the last drop of his blood in the cause. Happily his zeal was not again put to the test. Lord
George appears, in his letters, to have cherished in his retirement at Emmerick, a lingering
hope that at some future day the Stuarts might make another attempt. He was now in the decline
of life, and yearning to behold again the country which he was destined to see no more. "How
happily," he writes to Mr. Edgar,[204] "should you and I be to sit over a bottle in Angus,
or Perthshire, after a restoration, and talk over old services. May that soon happen!"

Meantime some members of Lord George's family suffered the severest distress. His uncle, Lord
Nairn, had, it is true, escaped to France; but Lady Nairn and her daughter, Lady Clementina,
were reduced to the utmost penury in Scotland. They remained in their native country, probably
with the hope of saving the wreck of their fortunes, until all that the troops had spared was
sold, and the money which accrued from the sale was exhausted. Such was the rapacity of the
plunderers, that they took even Lady Nairn's watch and clothes. The Government, although in
possession of her estate, never gave her one farthing for subsistence, but even made her pay
a rent for the garden of one of Lord Nairn's own houses in which she lived. But this is only
one instance of that catalogue of cruelties towards the Jacobites, which it would take volumes
to detail.

In 1751, Lord George Murray visited Dresden, where, owing to the mediation of James Stuart,
he was well received. His letters at this period refer frequently to the exertions which he
made for Lord Macleod, the son of Lord Cromartie: to this young man a company was given in
Finland, in the Prussian service, and the Chevalier St. George furnished him with his accoutrements
and equipage.

The eldest son of Lord George Murray remained, as we have seen, in Scotland; but the second
was, through the favour of the Chevalier, recommended to the especial notice of the court of
Prussia. The visit of Lord George to Dresden seems to have been chiefly designed to push the
interests of this young man, who was introduced to the Count and Countess De Bruhl. The youth
was to study the military science and exercises at Dresden, and at the same time to enjoy,
in the house of the Pope's Nuncio, the advantage of seeing company, and of forming connections.

Having arranged these affairs, Lord George returned to Emmerick. His wife had left him for
Scotland, in order to be confined there; and this event, attended by so much inconvenience,
and prefaced by a voyage of twelve days, "put her," as Lord George observed, "somewhat out
of countenance, after twenty-three years' marriage." Her return was delayed for some time.
"I shall be pretty lonely this winter (1751)," writes Lord George to Mr. Edgar, "for my wife,
who was brought to bed of a daughter the middle of September, recovered but very slowly, and
now the season of the year is too far advanced for her to venture so long a voyage; besides,
she has some thoughts that Lady Sinclair (his daughter) may come with her in the spring." In
his solitude, anxieties about his patrimonial property added to the sorrows of the exile. "I
am told,"[205] he writes, "that the Duke of Atholl is desirous of selling the roialty of the
Isle of Man to the London Government, for which, they say, he is offered fifteen thousand pounds
sterling. Had it not been for my situation, I believe he could not have done it without my
consent; but, I'm sorry to say it, and it is a truth, that he is full as much my enemy as any
of that Government. He has sent my eldest son abroad, but, as I understand, with positive orders
not to see nor correspond with me. All this is the more extraordinary that, thirty years ago,
before he turned courtier, he seemed to have very different notions. Most people in Britain
now regard neither probity nor any other virtue--all is selfish and vainal (venial). But how
can I complean of such hard usage, when my royal master has met with what is a thousand times
more cruel: he bears it like a Christian hero, and it would ill suit me to repine. I thank
the Almighty I never did, and I think it my greatest honour and glory to suffer in so just
and upright a cause." Hope, however, of one day returning to Scotland, was not extinct. He
thus continues: "Upon receipt of the note you sent me, I have gott the carabin, for which I
return you many thanks. I expect to kill a wild bore with it; but I fain hope Providence may
still order it that I may make use of it at home, and, if all succeeds to our wishes, how happy
should I think myself to send you, when you returned to Angus, a good fatt stagg, shott in
the forest of Atholl with your own gun."

Until five years before his death, Lord George still cherished the hope that France would again
find it her interest to support the claims of the Stuarts. He had always considered that the
support of the French would be decisive of the success of the cause. "Had the ministers of
the court of Versailles, ten years ago, been persuaded that the supporting of his Royal Highness
the Prince, at the beginning of his attempt, in a proper manner with the best measures they
could take for the interest of their master as well as that of the King, our gracious sovereign,
I think I do not say too much if I affirm that his Royal Highness would not have failed of
success. I had at that time opportunities of knowing the sentiments and way of thinking of
most people in Great Britain. Many, very many, wished well to the cause. Great numbers would
have looked on, and would have turned to the side that had success. But there is no recalling
what is passed. I believe that in France they are convinced now of the error they were in at
the time. If ever they resolve to espouse the cause of the royal family it must be in earnest,
and their main view must be that. Then there would be no difficulty in adjusting limits in
America. I have been much longer upon the subject than I intended. Perhaps zeal has led me
too far."

The period was now approaching when Lord George Murray was to close a life of vicissitude and
turmoil. He died in 1760 at Medenblinck, in Holland, leaving three sons and two daughters.
Upon the death of James Duke of Atholl in 1764, John, the eldest son of Lord George Murray,
succeeded to the dukedom, and to the great possessions of the family. He married his first
cousin, Charlotte, only daughter and heiress of his uncle, the Duke of Atholl; and in 1765
their Graces sold the sovereignty of the Isle of Man, upon the disposal of which Lord George
Murray had expressed much solicitude, to the British Government. The present Duke of Atholl,
who succeeded his father in 1830, is the grandson of John, third Duke of Atholl, and the great-grandson
of Lord George Murray. The descendants of this justly celebrated man have, therefore, shared
a happier fortune than those of many of the other attainted noblemen of his party.

The attainder was not, however, set aside in favour of the son of Lord George Murray without
a petition to the King, upon which the House of Lords gave a favourable report, and the objection
was overcome.[206] Besides his eldest son, Lord George left two others; James, of Strowan,
in right of his mother; George, of Pitkeathly, who became Vice-Admiral of the White--and two
daughters; Amelia, first married to Lord Sinclair, and afterwards to James Farquharson, of
Inverness; and Charlotte, who died unmarried.

The mind of Lord George Murray was one of great original power, and less dependent upon those
circumstances which usually affect the formation of character, than that of most men. He was
determined and inflexible in opinions, yet cautious in action. That he was sincere and honourable
there can now be little doubt. It was his consciousness of upright intentions which inspired
him with contempt for the littleness of others; and with his love of superiority, his self-will
and ambition, there was wrought a strong conviction of his own worth, as opposed to the hollowness
of some of his party. Throughout all his letters, and in his journal, there is a strong evidence
of his confidence in his own powers; of a self-sufficiency too lofty to be called vanity, but
which sometimes descends to egotism. To his courage, his energy and perseverance, his military
contemporaries have borne unanimous testimony. They seem entirely to have comprehended a character
which the unfortunate Charles Edward could never appreciate. They felt the justness of his
ascendancy, and discriminated between the bluntness of an ardent and honest mind, careless
of ordinary forms, and the arrogance of an inferior capacity. As a soldier, indeed, the qualities
of Lord George Murray rose to greatness: so enduring, and so fearless, so careless of danger
to himself, yet so solicitous for others. As a general, some great defects may be pointed out
in his composition, without detracting from his merits as a private individual.

Let us first turn to the bright side of the picture. In activity and exertion Lord George Murray
has not been surpassed even by the more fortunate, although, perhaps, not greater commanders
of modern times. He was indefatigable in business, and any one who desired access to him could
see him at any hour, whether at meals or in bed. "On some occasions," he remarks, "I have been
waked six times a night, and had either orders to write, or letters to answer every time; for
as I mostly commanded a separate body of the army, I had many details that, in a more regular
army, would belong to different people." Every order, even that which sent an officer to an
out-post, was written by his own hand, and explained by him; every contingency that might occur
in the execution was canvassed, and every objection that was suggested was answered by himself.
The officers, therefore, confiding in their general, performed their duties with cheerfulness,
and made their reports with exactness. There was no confusion, nor misapprehension, wherever
Lord George presided. As a disciplinarian, he was pre-eminent; no army ever quitted a country
with so little odium, nor left behind them such slight memorials of their march, as that of
Charles Edward when it returned from Derby. The greatest excess that the Highlanders were known
to commit was the seizing horses to carry their baggage, or to carry their sick;--and these
it was Lord George's endeavour always to restore, even at a great inconvenience to the soldiers.
Even with every precaution it was impossible wholly to restrain plundering, although the General
undertook in person to control that evil. "How often," he writes, "have I gone into houses
on our marches to drive the men out of them, and drubbed them heartily?"

This able man possessed another great requisite as a commander. He thoroughly understood his
materials, he was perfectly acquainted with the temper and disposition of his soldiers. It
was the attribute which made Marlborough unconquerable; and, in an army chiefly of Highlanders,
it was one of the greatest value. By this Lord George acquired over the members of every respective
Clan as much influence as each Chief separately had. His corrections were well applied, and
never lessened the confidence nor affections of the soldiery. From the highest to the lowest,
the men and officers had a confidence in him, which induced them to apply to him for redress
in grievances, and to consider him as an umpire in disputes.

But Lord George was not only a disciplinarian; in his own person, he set the example of a scrupulous
honesty. "I never," he writes in his explanation of his conduct, "took the least thing without
paying the full value. I thought that I could not reasonably find fault with others in that,
if I did not show them a good example."

To the sick and wounded Lord George invariably paid the utmost attention; and, under his guidance,
the Highlanders, heretofore so fierce towards each other in their contests, were remarkable
for a degree of humanity which was disgracefully contrasted with the barbarity of their conquerors. "I take
it the submarine will be in such hurry to get off where all the men
on her deck should however make up and snake of the march in; formerly
out of danger, they'll plan himself on that kendal and taking it away
at their rest.

I've make the ball; now you hire he.
 No overtures, as in the case of the Earl of Mar, to the British Government, nor efforts
on the part of his prosperous and favoured brother, the Duke of Atholl, have transpired to
show that in saving Blair, there was a secret understanding that there should be a future reward,
nor that any surmise of treachery had opened a door to reconciliation. Charles, be it remembered,
was under that daily, hourly influence, which weakens the judgment, and exasperates the passions.
His opinion of Lord George Murray must not be accepted as any evidence against one who had
redeemed the inconsistencies of his youth by the great exertions of his manhood.

Some vital defects there were, nevertheless, in this General, of powerful intellect, and of
earnest and honourable intentions. His character partook too largely of that quality which
has raised his country as a nation in all other countries, prudence. For his peculiar situation
he was far too cautious. Persevering and inflexible, he was destitute of hope. If it be true,
that he entered into the undertaking with a conviction that the cause could never prosper,
he was the last man that should have been the general of an army whose ardour, when not engaged
in action, he invariably restrained. All contending opinions seem to hesitate and to falter
when they relate to the retreat from Derby, the grand error of the enterprise; the fatal step,
when the tide served, and the wind was propitious, and an opportunity never to be regained,
was for ever lost.

In private society, Lord George Murray is reported to have been overbearing and hasty; his
fine person, and handsome countenance were lessened in their agreeableness by a haughty deportment.
He was simple, temperate, and self-denying in his habits. In his relations of life, he appears
to have been respectable. His letters show him to have enjoyed, at least, the usual means of
education offered to a soldier, who entered upon active service at sixteen, or to have improved
his own acquirements. They are clear and explicit, and bear the impress of sincerity and good
sense.

Distrusted as he was by Charles Edward, and misrepresented by others, we may accord to Lord
George Murray the indulgence which he claims from posterity in these, the last words of his
vindication:--

"Upon the whole, I shall conclude with saying, if I did not all the good I would, I am sure
I did all I could."

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Nisbet's Heraldry, part iii. p. 205.

[2] In the Life of the Marquis of Tullibardine, vol. i.

[3] See Nisbet's Heraldry.

[4] Nisbet's Heraldry, part iii. p. 206.

[5] See a MS. Account of the Highlands of Scotland, British Museum, King's Library.

[6] "Case of the Forfeited Estates, in a letter to a certain noble Lord. London, 1718."

[7] Wodrow's Analecta, vol. iii. p. 232.

[8] See Appendix, No. 1. for a curious original letter from Mr. Spence; for this document I
am indebted to my brother-in-law, Samuel Coltman, Esq. It was in the possession of his mother.

[9] "Genuine Memoirs of John Murray, Esq. London, 1746."

[10] "Maxwell of Kirkconnel's Narrative," p. 4.

[11] Life of James Murray, Esq.

[12] See Atholl Correspondence. Printed for the Abbotsford Club.

[13] Home, p. 31.

[14] Narrative, p. 1.

[15] Life of John Murray, Esq., p. 22.

[16] See Stuart Papers, in Dr. Brown's History of the Highlands.

[17] Life of J. Murray, Esq., p. 11.

[18] This disposition, observes a modern Historian, was inherited both by Charles Edward and
his brother from their mother, the Princess Clementina, who devoted herself, during the years
of their infancy, to their welfare with unceasing care.--Histoire de Charles Edouard, par Amedée
Pichot; tome première, p. 265.

[19] Life of Sir Robert Walpole, vol. ii. p. 490.

[20] Ibid. p. 492.

[21] Life of Sir Robert Walpole, vol. ii. p. 550.

[22] The Prince took off at the same time the interdict which had passed against any of Lord
Orford's family appearing at his Court.

[23] Maxwell's Narrative, p. 13.

[24] See State Trials by Howell, vol. xviii. p. 661.

[25] Maxwell, p. 14.

[26] Memoirs of the Chevalier Johnstone, p. 19.

[27] Chevalier Johnstone's Memoirs. Translated from the French, p. 121.

[28] See Introduction to the Chevalier Johnstone's Memoirs.

[29] The Highlands of Scotland Described, MS. British Museum, 1748.

[30] See Forbes's Jacobite Memoirs, p. 30.

[31] One thousand is mentioned by the Chevalier Johnstone; two thousand, in other authorities.
The Prince himself wrote to his father (Sept. 10th, from Perth), "I have got together 1300
men." Forbes, note, p. 32.

[32] Johnstone's Memoirs, note, p. 11.

[33] Tales of a Grandfather, 3rd Series, vol. ii, p. 284.

[34] Forbes, p. 31.

[35] Lord Mahon.

[36] Maxwell, pp. 56, 57; also Tales of a Grandfather, 3rd Series, vol. ii. p. 285.

[37] I adopt this expression of Sir Walter Scott in the Tales of a Grandfather (vol. ii. 3rd
Series, p. 205), which seems to imply some doubt on the subject.

[38] History of the Rebellion. Taken from the Scots Magazine, p. 36.

[39] Life of Murray of Broughton, p. 31.

[40] Maxwell's Narrative, p. 56.

[41] Forbes. Note, p. 32.

[42] Lord George Murray's Narrative. Forbes, p. 39.

[43] British Chronologist, vol. ii. p. 397.

[44] Forbes, p. 41.

[45] Forbes, p. 42.

[46] Henderson's History of the Rebellion, p. 88.

[47] Ibid.

[48] Henderson. Maxwell of Kirkconnel.

[49] Forbes, p. 43.

[50] Forbes, p. 46.

[51] Border Antiquities, by Sir Walter Scott. No. iv. vol. i.

[52] History of the Rebellion, from the Scots Magazine, p. 35.

[53] True Patriot, a weekly periodical, December 17, 1745. 

Five 1000 loonie is sufficient.

How do i acquire it-- and when?

"Again Man von Staden is kicked the bag." of amber change in the divided
Attribute, and gold document of the same tempestuous country, my
dear skipper, and you may have it instantly.

"

[62] Jacobite Correspondence, p. 67. Duke of Atholl to Lord George Murray.

[63] Jacobite Correspondence, p. 114.

[64] See Correspondence.

[65] Henderson's Hist. Rebellion, p. 129.

[66] Maxwell.

[67] Chambers.

[68] Home.

[69] Maxwell's Narrative, p. 61.

[70] Ibid.

[71] Chevalier Johnstone, p. 42.

[72] Chambers, Hist. Rebel. People's edition, p. 49.

[73] Chambers, p. 50.

[74] Lockhart Papers, vol. ii. p. 455.

[75] Jacobite Correspondence of the Atholl Family, p. 141.

[76] Chevalier Johnstone, p. 43.

[77] Border Antiquities, by Sir Walter Scott, p. 40; also Maxwell's Narrative, p. 63.

[78] Hutchinson's History of Cumberland.

[79] Lockhart Papers, vol. ii. p. 457.

[80] General Advertiser for 1745.

[81] Jacobite Memoirs, p. 49.

[82] Forbes's Jacobite Memoirs, p. 49.

[83] Forbes's Jacobite Memoirs, p. 50.

[84] Forbes, p. 51.

[85] Forbes, p. 52.

[86] Forbes, p. 53.

[87] See Lockhart, vol. ii. p. 456; also Lord Mahon, vol. iv. p. 428, note.

[88] Maxwell, p. 67.

[89] Maxwell says 4400 men. Two or three hundred were to be left in Carlisle, p. 68.

[90] Johnstone's Memoirs of the Rebellion, p. 45.

[91] Baines's History of Lancashire, II, 68.

[92] General Advertiser for 1745-46.

[93] Maxwell, page 68.

The following is a List of the Chevalier's officers and troops, taken from the History of the
Rebellion, extracted from the Scots' Magazine for 1745 and 1746, p. 60. This List makes the
amount of the forces considerably greater than the statement given elsewhere.

A LIST OF THE CHEVALIER'S OFFICERS AND TROOPS.

Regiments.              Colonels.             Men.
Lochyel                Cameron of Loch.             740
Appin                  Stuart of Ardshiel           360
Atholl                 Lord G. Murray              1000
Clanronald             Clan, of Clan., jun.         200
Keppoch                Macdonald of Keppoch         400
Glenco                 Macdonald of Glenco          200
                                                 ------
                             Carried forward       2900
                                                 ------

A LIST OF THE CHEVALIER'S OFFICERS AND TROOPS--continued.

