Though there is a great deal of needless and wearisome repetition in Jacob Behmen's writings,
at the same time there is scarcely a single subject in the whole range of theology on which
he does not throw a new, an intense, and a brilliant light.  In his absolutely original and
magnificent doctrine of GOD, while all the time loyally true to it, Behmen has confessedly
transcended the theology of both the Latin and the Reformed Churches; and, absolutely unlettered
man though he is, has taken his stand at the very head of the great Greek theologians.  The
Reformers concentrated their criticism upon the anthropology and soteriology of the Church
of Rome, and especially upon the discipline and worship connected therewith.  They saw no need
for recasting any of the more fundamental positions of pure theology.  And while Jacob Behmen,
broadly speaking, accepts as his own confession of faith all that Luther and Calvin and their
colleagues taught on sin and salvation, on the corruption and guilt of sinners, and on the
redeeming work of our LORD, he rises far above the greatest and best of his teachers in his
doctrine of the GODHEAD.  Not only does he rise far higher in that doctrine than either Rome
or Geneva, he rises far higher and sounds far deeper than either Antioch, or Alexandria, or
Nicomedia, or Nice.  On this profound point Bishop Martensen has an excellent appreciation
of Behmen.  After what I have taken upon me to say about Behmen, the learned Bishop's authoritative
passage must be quoted:--'If we compare Behmen's doctrine of the Trinity,' says the learned
and evangelical Bishop, 'with that which is contained in the otherwise so admirable Athanasian
Creed, the latter but displays to us a most abstruse metaphysic; a GOD for mere thought, and
in whom there is nothing sympathetic for the heart of man.  Behmen, on the contrary, reveals
to us the LIVING GOD, the GOD of Goodness, the Eternal Love, of which there is absolutely no
hint whatever in the hard Athanasian symbol.  By this attitude of his to the affections of
the human heart, Behmen's doctrine of the Trinity is in close coherence with the Reformation,
and with its evangelical churches. . . . Behmen is anxious to state a conception of GOD that
will fill the hiatus between the theological and anthropological sides of the dogmatical development
which was bequeathed by the Reformation; he seeks to unite the theological and the anthropological.
. . . From careful study of Behmen's theology,' continues Bishop Martensen, 'one gains a prevailing
impression that Behmen's GOD is, in His inmost Being, most kindred to man, even as man in his
inmost being is still kindred to GOD.  And, besides, we recognise in Behmen throughout the
pulse-beat of a believing man, who is in all his books supremely anxious about his own salvation
and that of his fellow-men.'  Now, it is just this super-confessional element in Behmen, both
on his speculative and on his practical side, taken along with the immediate and intensely
practical bearing of all his speculations, it is just this that is Behmen's true and genuine
distinction, his shining and unshared glory.  And it is out of that supreme, solitary, and
wholly untrodden field of Behmen's super-confessional theology that all that is essential,
characteristic, distinctive, and fruitful in Behmen really and originally springs.  The distinctions
he takes within, and around, and immediately beneath the Godhead, are of themselves full of
the noblest light.  The Divine Nature, Eternal Nature, Temporal Nature, Human Nature, when
evolved out of one another, and when related to one another, as Behmen sees them evolved and
related, are categories of the clearest, surest, most necessary, and most intensely instructive
kind.  And if the height and the depth, the massiveness, the stupendousness, and the grandeur,
as well as the sweetness, and the beauty, and the warmth, and the fruitfulness of a doctrine
of GOD is any argument or evidence of its truth, then Behmen's magnificent doctrine of the
GODHEAD is surely proved to demonstration and delight.  GOD is the Essence of all Essences
to Behmen.  GOD is the deepest Ground, the living and the life-giving Root of all existence.
At the same time, the Divine Nature is so Divine; It is so high and so deep; It is so unlike
all that is not Itself; It is so beyond and above all language, and all thought, and all imagination
of man or angel, that universe after universe have had to come into existence, and have had
to be filled, each successive universe after its own kind, with all the fulness of GOD, before
that universe of which we form a part, and to which our utmost imagination is confined, could
have come into existence, and into recognition of itself.  Behmen's Eternal Nature must never
be taken for the Eternal GOD.  The Divine Nature, the Eternal Godhead, exists in the Father,
in the Son, and in the Holy Ghost; and then, after the Eternal Generation of the Son, and the
Eternal Procession of the Holy Ghost, there comes up in order of existence Eternal Nature.
Eternal Nature is not the Divine Nature, but it is as near to the Divine Nature in its qualities
and in its powers as any created thing can ever by any possibility be.  Now, if we are still
to follow Behmen, we must not let ourselves indolently think of the production of Eternal Nature
as a divine act done and completed in any past either of time or of eternity. There is neither
past nor future where we are now walking with Behmen. There is only an everlasting present
where he is now leading us.  For, as GOD the Father generates the Son eternally and continually;
and as the Holy Ghost proceeds from the Father and the Son eternally and continually, so GOD
the Word eternally and continually says, 'Let this Beginning of all things be, and let it continue
to be.'  And, as He speaks, His Word awakens the ever-dawning morning of the ever new-created
day.  And He beholds Eternal Nature continually rising up before Him, and He pronounces it
very good.  The Creator so transcends the creation, and, especially, that late and remote creation
of which we are a part, that, as the Creator's first step out of Himself, and as a step towards
our creation, is His creation, generation, or other production of a nature or universe that
shall be capable of receiving immediately into itself all that of the Creator that He has purposed
to reveal and to communicate to creatures,--a nature or universe which shall at the same time
be itself the beginning of creation, and the source, spring, and quarry out of which all that
shall afterwards come can be constructed.  Eternal Nature is thus the great storehouse and
workshop in which all the created essences, elements, principles, and potentialities of all
possible worlds are laid up.  Here is the great treasury and laboratory into which the Filial
Word enters, when by Him GOD creates, sustains, and perfects the worlds, universe after universe.
Here, says Behmen, is the great and universal treasury of that heavenly clay of which all things,
even to angels and men, are made; and here is the eternal turning-wheel with which they are
all framed and fashioned.  Eternal Nature is an invisible essence, and it is the essential
ground out of which all the visible and invisible worlds are made.  For the things which are
seen were not made of things which do appear.  In that radiant original universe also all the
thoughts of GOD which were to usward from everlasting, all the Divine ideas, patterns, and
plans of things, are laid open, displayed, copied out and sealed up for future worlds to see
carried out.  'Through this Kingdom of Heaven, or Eternal Nature,' says William Law, in his
Appeal to all that Doubt, 'is the invisible GOD eternally breaking forth and manifesting Himself
in a boundless height and depth of blissful wonders, opening and displaying Himself to all
His heavenly creatures in an infinite variety and an endless multiplicity of His powers, beauties,
joys, and glories.  So that all the inhabitants of heaven are for ever knowing, seeing, hearing,
feeling, and variously enjoying all that is great, amiable, infinite, and gracious in the Divine
Nature.'  And again, in his Way to Divine Knowledge: 'Out of this transcendent Eternal Nature,
which is as universal and immense as the Godhead itself, do all the highest beings, cherubims
and seraphims, all the hosts of angels, and all intelligent spirits, receive their birth, existence,
substance, and form.  And they are one and united in one, GOD in them, and they in GOD, according
to the prayer of CHRIST for His disciples, that they, and He, and His Holy Father might be
united in one.'  A little philosophy, especially when the philosopher does not yet know the
plague of his own heart, tends, indeed, to doubt and unbelief in the word of GOD and in the
work of CHRIST.  But the philosophy of Behmen and Law will deepen the mind and subdue the heart
of the student till he is made a prodigal son, a humble believer, and a profound philosopher,
both in nature and in grace, like his profound masters.

