The Lootenant sleeps with a couple of doboy oficers in a sekshun of engine boiler set in the
side of the trench. I sleep down in a place that looks like an old mine. About the only way
you could get a shell into the thing would be to lower it down with a rope. Its the best billet
Ive struck up here tho. Theres no windos for fresh air feends to be monkeyin with all the time,
an of course there aint no light to shine in your face when your tryin to sleep. The only trouble
is theres seven fellos sleepin there an only five bunks so we got to take turns sleepin. The
floor is to muddy.

That is to say, Mable, seven fellos an two hundred rats. I never used to take much stock in
those rat stories but I certinly take off my hat to them now. Thats about all you can take
off unless you want to get eaten. These fellos will eat anything from the hobnails out of your
shoes to a bag of Bull. They make a goat look like a dispeptik. You dont notice them while
the candles are lit an your movin around. As soon as you blow out the light an lie still, tho,
you can hear them comin out all over to have dinner off your equipment.

They have what they call a runners bench outside the tin house where the Lootenant sleeps.
Joe an I is supposed to take turns sittin there. Its something like the bell hops bench in
a hotel only this is an active front. You wont get that for a minit, Mable. All you can here
when your sittin out there a fello inside saying "Hello. Pancake. Get off the wire Peggy. I
want Pancake. Pancake busy? Give me Pauline. Is that you Purgatory? This is Pineapple speakin."

After Id lissened to that for about half an hour I felt like the gate gard of a bug house.
I got hold of the Lootenant in a friendly way an told him Id go halves on my bunk with him
cause I didnt think it was safe to sleep with that fello. He might think he was a crum some
night an try to choke somebody. The Lootenant said that was just a way they had of telefonin
up here. He said you never could tell when a German might be lyin up on the roof or under a
bunk lissenin to you. On account of that nobody called anybody else by there right name. For
instance he said they called the General Pancake an the Colonel Peggy an this place was called
Pineapple.

The more I thought about it the more it sounded like a good sensible idear to me. I went in
an told the Lootenant that unless he had something better I thought Id call him Prune juice
from then on. He said Id guessed wrong unless I wanted to act as a stone crusher on a road
gang. The trouble with most of these fellos is there to stuck up to play the game. Its all
right to call a General Pancake or a Colonel Peggy but you want to watch out what you call
a 2nd Lootenant.

Well Mable, if what they say is true the doboys will be goin over pretty soon. The Lootenant
says were goin with em. Its about as good a chance to pick up a few first hand soovenirs as
a fello could want. In case anything happens like my gettin killed or such dont bother about
goin into mornin or buyin a lot of new letter paper. Just give them that pictur of me standin
in front of the American flag. An when the reporters call for details remember the skies the limit.

     yours until the Fritzes get me
          Bill

Dere Mable:

Its nobodies fault but the Fritzes that you aint gettin an extinguished service medal insted
of this letter. A couple of mornins after I rote you last Joe woke me up an said they were
puttin on a battle upstairs. From the way they were shootin things up he thought they ought
to be down in the dug-out in a little while. Joes the kind of a fello that gets you up an hour
before theres any need for it. I told him to call me when he heard them at the top of the stairs.
Practical. Thats me all over, Mable. Then I turned over to get some sleep.

Then the Lootenant came runnin down cussin an swearin because the fone was busted. He told
us wed have to go back to the battery an tell em to snap out of it an show the Fritzes that
it took two to make an argument. From where we was the Fritzes seemed to be puttin up a pretty
good argument all alone an most of it seemed to be goin in the direckshun of the battery. But
Joe says Sailor Gare so we started off down the road. There was plenty of noise out there.
It was awful foggy but you could see the red flashes once in a while when one of them lit in
a field near the road.

Every time one busted Joe would duck into a ditch. He had me doin it pretty soon. The more
we ducked the more we couldnt help it till we was goin down the road like a couple of Rushin
dancers. Then we broke all the rules of the runners union an ran.

We didnt have no trouble findin the Captin cause we knew just where to look. Just as we started
to go down in his dug-out we heard a big one comin and both landed together at the bottom.
After a fellos face gets broken in to goin down stairs that way its the easiest way. The Captin
was awful sore. He wanted to know what the this an that we meant by comin in without knockin.
That fello would want you to salute if you had both arms shot off. I didnt say nothin. Just
gave him the Lootenants message.

That seemed to make him madder still. He pushed the papers around on his desk an said didnt
that one thing an another Lootenant know he couldnt get fire without orders from regimental
headquarters. An didnt he know that regimental headquarters couldnt give any order till they
was asked for it by doboy headquarters. An why the this an that didnt we go to the doboys if
we wanted some fire.

Id like to have told him where to go to get some fire. I just saluted tho, an said "Yes sir."
Spirited. Thats me all over, Mable. Then we went back to pass the buck to the Lootenant. The
doboy oficers was all sittin around tellin him how good the Inglish artilery was. A couple
of hours later when Joe an I was havin breakfast we heard the battery fire about twenty shots.
The doboys said it was lucky we didnt fire any more cause they was probably all shorts anyway.
That dont mean that they were a different size or anything, Mable. A short is a shell that
hasnt got the ambishun.

I went up to an artilery observashun post with the Lootenant the other day. Only it isnt a
post but a round tin house like a ticket office set in the trenches on top of a hill. Theres
a slit cut in the front to look thru. The Lootenant showed me where Nobodies land was. I could
see the Fritz trenches runnin in front of a piece of woods about half a mile away. They must
have all been away on a furlo or something cause there wasnt as much as a fly sittin over there.

This is a great place for soovenirs. I got a lot of buttons, a piece of shell, a couple of
bones I found stickin out of the trench an a Fritz hand grenade. As soon as I can find a box
Im goin to send you the whole bunch. I wouldnt monkey with the hand grenade much. It doesnt
look as if it had ever exploded. Give it to Archie Wainwright an tell him its a trench warmer.
Maybe hell stick it in the fire.

In the afternoon when things is quiet an everybodies asleep we go out an throw hand grenades
at the rats. Thats good sport cause you got to be quick or youll get your self insted of a
rat. Joe Mink had to spoil it of course by blowin in dug outs. Hed have been all right if hed
picked old dug outs but he wasnt satisfied till hed found one with a fello comin up the stairs.
I dont see yet tho why there was such a holler raised. The old thing didnt go off. It just
caught the fello in the stummick an knocked some wind out. He blacked Joes eyes an then went
to the Major. Joes back in the eschelon now groomin horses. Angus MacKenzie has come up in
his place so Im just as satisfied.

I guess were goin across pretty soon now. Then Ill be able to get a helmet an a looger pistel
an a pair of feel glasses. I guess the Fritzes are gettin scared. I hope there not as scared
as I am.

     yours indefinitely
          Bill

Dere Mable:

Since I rote you last I been over the top with the doboys, taken a woods that I cant see why
anybody wanted, an collected enuff soovenirs to equip a South American army. Im ritin this
from a Fritz dug-out in the middle of the woods on Fritz oficers paper. If Id telefoned ahed
he couldnt have had things fixed up better for me. There was a lunch out on the table an blankets
an even clean underclose (if youll excuse my menshuning them). They used to have electric lights
here but somebody soovenired the dinamo so they wont work.

The nite before we went over four more artilery runners came up. I ast the Lootenant if they
was plannin to send any doboys over to help us in the attack. He said there had to be a lot
of runners sos that when two went back with a message an got killed he could send two more.
Always cheery an bright, the Lootenant.

The nite before the attack we went up to a tunnel thats dug right under a hill an has got rooms
in it an everything. Those fellos didnt seem to care how many shovels they wore out. We got
into it down a long flight of steps in the pitch dark where I like to have broke my neck. Then
down a long passage feelin your way along the road. Every four or five feet somebody would
run into you an cuss you.

At last we came round a bend an there was all the doboys sittin in the mud eatin supper an
smokin. The only lights they had was pieces of candle stuck up on there equipment. It looked
like the whole army was in that tunnel an all smokin at the same time. The Lootenant told us
to make ourselves comfortable then he disappeared into one of the rooms off to the side.

About ten o'clock all the doboys got up an went out. Then we sat in the mud and waited for
three hours. Angus found some duck boards and went to sleep.

Some time after midnite a lot of oficers came out of the room. We walked thru the tunnel so
far that I figgered that we must be comin out somewhere behind the German lines. At last we
climed a flight of stairs an there we were right out doors. Id expected thered be an awful
battle goin on by that time but everything was as quiet as church except for a few big ones
that would sail over every once in a while. The stars were all out just like it was an ordinary
nite. We walked along a lot of paths an fell over a lot of old barb wire, then dropped into
a trench. It struck me that was the time to go across while things were quiet. But I heard
the doboy Major say that there was only four more hours to wait. These fellos are worse than
your family for gettin to places on time.

Everything was quiet for a long time. Then all of a sudden all the guns in the world began
bangin away at the same minit. Over the top of the hill behind us an as far as you could see
ether way it was just one big flash. Then the shells began racin over, squealin an whisselin
an rumblin along like they was racin each other to see who was goin to get first crack at the
Fritzes.

Every one of them seemed to have its own speshul whissel tied onto it. Some of them rumbled
along like a fast train hittin a down grade. Some would just sing an hum to themselves sort
of quiet an happy while others would go yellin an screamin across like the fire department
on an exhibishun run. There was one bunch that squealed like a trolly goin round a turn on
dry rails. You sort of felt as if someone ought to grease it.

Besides all these noises over our heads there was the poundin an hammerin behind us from the
guns themselves. The big fellos just boom boomed away like a bunch of base drums. Up nearer
tho it was like a mountin of giant fire crackers goin off together. Then thered be a let up
for a second like a fello thats awful mad but runs out of words. After that theyd go at it
agen harder than ever.

The best part of it was that most of them was our own shells. The Fritzes didnt seem to get
into the spirit of the thing at all. Every few minutes theyd sail over a big one right near
the tunnel where we came out. That was about as safe a place as he could have put em cause
there wasnt anybody there.

At first the noise an everything gave a fello something to think about. After a while tho you
got used to it just like you do to Niagra Falls or a steam radiator. Then there wasnt anything
to do but get cold an ask about the time. A couple of doboys got tellin each other what kind
of a dinner theyd order if they was some place where they wasnt. Whenever you get uncomfortable
enuff a couple of fellos like that always show up. I slid down in the bottom of the trench
where it was a little warmer an tried to smoke a cigaret under my hand. I must have dropped
off to sleep cause the next thing I knew I was all doubled up in the bottom of the trench an
half froze. I heard somebody say "Fifteen minites more." The guns was goin it harder than ever.
If we hadnt won that scrap wed have had to knock off the war for a couple of months till they
got some more amunishun.

Goin over wasnt much. Id read so many things about how you felt just before an just when an
just after that I tried to figger just how I did feel. I was so cold I couldnt feel anything
tho. I was thinkin about this when somebody says "Snap out of it ahead there. There goin."
An there was the Lootenant boostin the Major out of the trench an a lot of doboys with their
rifles in there hands hurryin along the top an disappearin in the fog.

Just as we got out of the trench the worst noise started I ever heard. It made all the shootin
that went before sound like a fello drummin on the table with a couple of knives. Even the
machine guns was in it this time. They sounded like a rivitin competishun in a ship yard. I
heard somebody say "There goes our machine gun barrage. I hope they get it over our heads."
He struck me as a pretty sensible fello.

Somebody had marked the place up with tape like a tennis court. We followed along one of these
till we came to another tape runnin the same way as the trenches. There was a lot of doboys
lyin down there an a lot of others comin up thru the fog, half runnin, half walkin an all of
them stooped over like they was carryin something heavy.

In front it was just fog. We could see red flashes runnin thru it like bubbles in boilin water
where the shells from our barrage was bustin. The fog didnt go very high cause you could make
out a little blue sky once in a while. Then right thru the top of it came tearin out a regular
fourth of July celebrashun of Fritz fireworks. They were just like the rockets at Weewillo
Park that spit out long snakes of gold fire like a broom when they bust. The nearer that barrage
came to the Fritz trenches the faster they went up all along the line.

We lay there a few minites till everybody came up. The thing that struck me now was that I
wasnt scared. Id been more afraid of bein scared than anything else. Then the Major got up
an started on with everybody else taggin along with him. It was to foggy to see what was happenin
on each side. We went down a hill. It got swampy an we struck some duck boards. Somebody must
have been over before us an put them down. If they could get around as easy as that it beat
me what they were makin all this fuss for.

