Loyola is reported as having said to his secretary that "in those who offer themselves he looked
less to purely natural goodness than to firmness of character and ability for business." But
that he did not mean independent firmness of character is clearly seen in the obvious attempt
of the order to destroy that noble and true independence which is the crowning glory of a lofty
character. The discipline is marvelously contrived to "scoop the will" out of the individual.
Count Paul von Hoensbroech, who recently seceded from the society, has set forth his reasons
for so doing in two articles which appeared in the "Preussische Jahrbücher." A most interesting
discussion of these articles, in the "New World," for December, 1894, places the opinions of
the Count at our disposal. It is quite evident that he is no passionate, blind foe of the society.
His tone is temperate and his praises cordially given. While recognizing the genius shown in
the machinery of the society and the nobility of the real aims of the Jesuitical discipline,
and while protesting against the unfounded charges of impurity, and other gross calumnies against
the order, Count Paul nevertheless maintains that it "rests on so unworthy a depreciation of
individuality, and so exaggerated an apprehension of the virtue of obedience, as to render
it unfit for its higher ends." The uniform of the Jesuit is not an external garb, but such
freedom is insignificant in the light of the "veritable strait-jacket," which is placed upon
the inward man. The unformed and pliable novice, usually between the ages of sixteen and twenty,
is subjected to "a skillful, energetic and unremitting assault upon personal independence."
Every device that a shrewd and powerful intellect could conceive of is employed to break up
the personal will. "The Jesuit scheme prescribes the gait, the way to hold the hands, to incline
the head, to direct the eyes, to hold and move the person."

Every novice must go through the "Spiritual Exercises" in complete solitude, twice in his life.
They occupy thirty days. The "Account of the Conscience" is of the very essence of Jesuitism.
The ordinary confession, familiar to every Catholic, is as nothing compared with this marvelous
inquiry into the secrets of the human heart and mind. Every fault, sin, virtue, wish, design,
act and thought,--good, bad or indifferent,--must be disclosed, and this revelation of the
inner life may be used against him who makes it, "for the good of the order." Thus, after fifteen
years of such ingenious and detailed discipline, the young man's intellectual and moral faculties
are moulded into Jesuitical forms. He is no longer his own. He is a pliable and obedient, even
though it may be a virtuous and brilliant, tool of a spiritual master-mechanic who will use
him according to his own purposes, in the interest of the society.

The Jesuits have signally failed to convince the world that the type of character produced
by their system is worthy of admiration. The "sacrifice of the intellect"--a familiar watchword
of the Jesuit--is far too high a price to pay for whatever benefits the discipline may confer.
It is contrary to human nature, and hence to the divine intention, to keep a human soul in
a state of subordination to another human will. As Von Hoensbroech says of the society: "Who
gave it a right to break down that most precious possession of the individual being, which
God gave, and which man has no authority to take away?"

It is true that no human organization has so magnificently brought to perfection a unity of
purpose and oneness of will. It is also true that a spirit of defiance toward human authority
is often accompanied by a disobedience of divine law. But the remedy for the abuses of human
freedom is neither in the annihilation of the will itself, nor in its mere subjection to some
other will irrespective of its moral character. Carlyle may have been too vehement in some
of his censures of Jesuitism, but he certainly exposed the fallaciousness of Loyola's views
concerning the value of mere obedience, at the same time justly rebuking the too ardent admirers
of the perverted principle: "I hear much also of 'obedience,' how that and kindred virtues
are prescribed and exemplified by Jesuitism; the truth of which, and the merit of which, far
be it from me to deny.... Obedience is good and indispensable: but if it be obedience to what
is wrong and false, good heavens, there is no name for such a depth of human cowardice and
calamity, spurned everlastingly by the gods. Loyalty? Will you be loyal to Beelzebub? Will
you 'make a covenant with Death and Hell'? I will not be loyal to Beelzebub; I will become
a nomadic Choctaw rather, ... anything and everything is venial to that."

The Casuistry of the Jesuits

It is often asserted, even by authoritative writers, that a Jesuit is bound by his vows to
commit either venial or mortal sin at the command of his superior; and that the maxim, "The
end justifies the means," has not only been the principle upon which the society has prosecuted
its work but is also explicitly taught in the rules of the order. There is nothing in the constitution
of the society to justify these two serious charges, which are not to be regarded as malicious
calumnies, however, because the slovenly Latin in one of the rules on obedience has misled
such competent scholars as John Addington Symonds and the historian Ranke. Furthermore, judging
from the doctrines of the society as set forth by many of their theologians and the political
conduct of its representatives, the conclusion seems inevitable that while the society may
not teach in its rules that its members are bound to obedience even to the point of sin, yet
practically many of its leaders have so held and its emissaries have rendered that kind of
obedience.

Bishop Keane admits that one of the causes for the decline and overthrow of the society was
its marked tendency toward lax moral teaching. There can be but little doubt that the Jesuits
have ever been indulgent toward many forms of sin and even crime, when committed under certain
circumstances and for the good of the order or "the greater glory of God."

To enable the reader to form some sort of an independent judgment on this question, it is necessary
to say a few words on the subject of casuistry and the doctrine of probabilism.

Casuistry is the application of general moral rules to given cases, especially to doubtful
ones. The medieval churchmen were much given to inventing fanciful moral distinctions and to
prescribing rules to govern supposable problems of conscience. They were not willing to trust
the individual conscience or to encourage personal responsibility. The individual was taught
to lean his whole weight on his spiritual adviser, in other words, to make the conscience of
the church his own. As a result there grew up a confused mass of precepts to guide the perplexed
conscience. The Jesuits carried this system to its farthest extreme. As Charles C. Starbuck
says: "They have heaped possibility upon possibility in their endeavors to make out how far
there can be subjective innocence in objective error, until they have, in more than one fundamental
point, hopelessly confused their own perceptions of both[H]."

[Footnote H: Appendix, Note H.]

The doctrine of probabilism is founded upon the distinctions between opinions that are sure,
less sure, or more sure. There are several schools of probabilists, but the doctrine itself
practically amounts to this: Since uncertainty attaches to many of our decisions in moral affairs,
one must follow the more probable rule, but not always, cases often arising when it is permissible
to follow a rule contrary to the more probable one. Furthermore, as the Jesuits made war upon
individual authority, which was the key-note of the Reformation, and contended for the authority
of the church, the teaching naturally followed, that the opinion of "a grave doctor" may be
looked upon "as possessing a fair amount of probability, and may, therefore, be safely followed,
even though one's conscience insist upon the opposite course." It is easy to see that this
opens a convenient door to those who are seeking justification for conduct which their consciences
condemn. No doubt one can find plausible excuses for the basest crimes, if he stills the voice
of conscience and trusts himself to confusing sophistry. The glory of God, the gravity of circumstances,
necessity, the good of the church or of the order, and numerous other practical reasons can
be urged to remove scruples and make a bad act seem to be a good one. But crime, even "for
the glory of God," is crime still.

This disagreeable subject will not be pursued further. To say less than has been said would
be to ignore one of the most prominent causes of the Jesuits' ruin. To say more than this,
even though the facts might warrant it, would incur the liability of being classed among those
malicious fomentors of religious strife, for whom the writer has mingled feelings of pity and
contempt. The Society of Jesus is not the Roman Catholic Church, which has suffered much from
the burden of Jesuitism--wounds that are scarcely atoned for by the meritorious and self-sacrificing
services on her behalf in other directions. The Protestant foes have never equaled the Catholic
opponents of Jesuitism, either in their fierce hatred of the system or in their ability to
expose its essential weakness. A writer in the "Quarterly Review," September, 1848, says: "Admiration
and detestation of the Jesuits divide, as far as feeling is concerned, the Roman Catholic world,
with a schism deeper and more implacable than any which arrays Protestant against Protestant."

The Mission of the Jesuits

The Society of Jesus has been described as "a naked sword, whose hilt is at Rome, and whose
point is everywhere." It is an undisputed historical fact that Loyola's consuming passion was
to accomplish the ruin of Protestantism, which had twenty years the start of him and was threatening
the very existence of the Roman hierarchy. It has already been shown that the destruction of
heresy was the chief aim of the Dominicans. What the friars failed to attain, Loyola attempted.
The principal object of the Jesuits was the maintenance of papal authority. Even to-day the
Jesuit does not hesitate to declare that his mission is to overthrow Protestantism. The Reformation
was inspired by a new conception of individual freedom. The authority of tradition and of the
church was set at naught. Loyola planted his system upon the doctrine of absolute submission
to authority. The partial success of the Jesuits, for they did beat back the Reformation, is
no doubt attributable to their fidelity, virtue and learning. Their devotion to the cause they
loved, their willingness to sacrifice life itself, their marvelous and instantaneous obedience
to the slightest command of their leaders, made them a compact and powerful papal army. Their
methods, in many particulars, were not beyond question, and, whatever their character, the
order certainly incurred the fiercest hostility of every nation in Europe, and even of the
church itself.

Professor Anton Gindely, in his "History of the Thirty Years' War," shows that Maximilian,
of Bavaria, and Ferdinand, of Austria, the leaders on the Catholic side, were educated by Jesuits.
He also fixes the responsibility for that war partly upon them in the plainest terms: "In a
word, they had the consciences of Roman Catholic sovereigns and their ministers in their hands
as educators, and in their keeping as confessors. They led them in the direction of war, so
that it was at the time, and has since been called the Jesuits' War."

The strictures of Carlyle, Macaulay, Thackeray, and Lytton have been repeatedly denounced by
the Jesuits, but even their shrewd, sophistical defences of their order afford ample justification
for the attitude of their foes. For example, in a masterful oration, previously quoted from,
in which the virtues of the Jesuits are extolled and defended, Father Sherman says: "We are
expelled and driven from pillar to post because we teach men to love God." He describes Loyola
as "the knightly, the loyal, the true, the father of heroes, and the maker of saints, the lover
of the all-good and the all-beautiful, crowned with the honor of sainthood, the best-loved
and the best-hated man in all the world, save only his Master and ours." "'Twas he that conceived
the daring plan of forging the weapon to beat back the Reformation." No one but a Jesuit could
reconcile the aim of "preaching the love of God" with "beating back the Reformation," especially
in view of the methods employed.

Numerous gross calumnies have been circulated against the Society of Jesus. The dread of a
return to that deplorable intellectual and moral slavery of the pre-Reformation days is so
intense, that a calm, dispassionate consideration of Jesuit history is almost impossible. But
after all just concessions have been made, two indisputable facts confront the student: first,
the universal antagonism to the order, of the church that gave birth to it, as well as of the
states that have suffered from its meddling in political affairs; and second, the complete
failure of the order's most cherished schemes. France, Germany, Switzerland, Spain, Great Britain
and other nations, have been compelled in sheer self-defence to expel it from their territories.
Such a significant fact needs some other explanation than that the Jesuit has incurred the
enmity of the world merely for preaching the love of God.

But while there is much to be detested in the methods of the order, history does not furnish
another example of such self-abnegation and intense zeal as the Jesuits have shown in the prosecution
of their aims. They planted missions in Japan, China, Africa, Ceylon, Madagascar, North and
South America.

In Europe the Mendicant friars by their coarseness had disgusted the upper classes; the affable
and cultured Jesuit won their hearts. The Jesuits became chaplains in noble families, learned
the secrets of every government in Europe, and became the best schoolmasters in the age. They
were to be found in various disguises in every castle of note and in every palace. "There was
no region of the globe," says Macaulay, "no walk of speculative or active life in which Jesuits
were not to be found." That they were devoted to their cause no one can deny. They were careless
of life and, as one facetiously adds, of truth also. They educated, heard confessions, plotted
crimes and revolutions, and published whole libraries. Worn out by fatigue, the Jesuits still
toiled on with marvelous zeal. Though hated and opposed, they wore serene and cheerful countenances.
In a word, they had learned to control every faculty and every passion, and to merge every
human aspiration and personal ambition into the one supreme purpose of conquering an opposing
faith and exalting the power of priestly authority. They hold up before the subjects of the
King of Heaven a wonderful example of loving and untiring service, which should be emulated
by every servant of Christ who too often yields an indifferent obedience to Him whom he professes
to love and to serve.

Francis Parkman, in his brilliant narrative of "The Jesuits in North America," presents the
following interesting contrast between the Puritan and the Jesuit: "To the mind of the Puritan,
heaven was God's throne; but no less was the earth His footstool; and each in its degree and
its kind had its demands on man. He held it a duty to labor and to multiply; and, building
on the Old Testament quite as much as on the New, thought that a reward on earth as well as
in heaven awaited those who were faithful to the law. Doubtless, such a belief is widely open
to abuse, and it would be folly to pretend that it escaped abuse in New England; but there
was in it an element manly, healthful and invigorating. On the other hand, those who shaped
the character, and in a great measure the destiny, of New France had always on their lips the
nothingness and the vanity of life. For them, time was nothing but a preparation for eternity,
and the highest virtue consisted in a renunciation of all the cares, toils and interests of
earth. That such a doctrine has often been joined to an intense worldliness, all history proclaims;
but with this we have at present nothing to do. If all mankind acted on it in good faith, the
world would sink into decrepitude. It is the monastic idea carried into the wide field of active
life, and is like the error of those who, in their zeal to cultivate their higher nature, suffer
the neglected body to dwindle and pine, till body and mind alike lapse into feebleness and
disease."

Notwithstanding the success of the Jesuits in stopping the progress of the Reformation, it
may be truthfully said that they have failed. The principles of the Reformation dominate the
world and are slowly modifying the Roman church in America. "In truth," says Macaulay, "if
society continued to hold together, if life and property enjoyed any security, it was because
common sense and common humanity restrained men from doing what the order of Jesus assured
them they might with a safe conscience do." Our hope for the future progress of society lies
in the guiding power of this same common sense and common humanity.

The restoration of the order by Pius VII., August 7th, 1814, while it renewed the papal favor,
did not allay the hostility of the civil powers. Various states have expelled them since that
time, and wherever they labor, they are still the objects of open attack or ill-disguised suspicion.
Although the order still shows "some quivering in fingers and toes," as Carlyle expresses it,
the principles of the Reformation are too widely believed, and its benefits too deeply appreciated,
to justify any hope or fear of the ultimate triumph of Jesuitism.

Retrospect

So the Christian monk has greatly changed since he first appeared in the deserts of Nitria,
in Egypt. He has come from his den in the mountains to take his seat in parliaments, and find
his home in palaces. He is no longer filthy in appearance, but elegant in dress and courtly
in manner. He has exchanged his rags for jewels and silks. He is no longer the recluse of the
lonely cliffs, chatting with the animals and gazing at the stars. He is a man of the world,
with schemes of conquest filling his brain and a love of dominion ruling his heart. He is no
longer a ditch-digger and a ploughman, but the proud master of councils or the cultured professor
of the university. He still swears to the three vows of celibacy, poverty and obedience, but
they do not mean the same thing to him that they did to the more ignorant, less cultured, but
more genuinely frank monk of the desert. Yes, he has all but completely lost sight of his ancient
monastic ideal. He professes the poverty of Christ, but he cannot follow even so simple a man
as his Saint Francis.

It is a long way from Jerome to Ignatius, but the end of the journey is nigh. Loyola is the
last type of monastic life, or changing the figure, the last great leader in the conquered
monastic army. The good within the system will survive, its truest exponents will still fire
the courage and win the sympathy of the devout, but best of all, man will recover from its poison.

VII

THE FALL OF THE MONASTERIES

The rise of Protestantism accelerated the decline and final ruin of the monasteries. The enthusiasm
of the Mendicants and the culture of the Jesuits failed to convince the governments of Europe
that monasticism was worthy to survive the destruction awaiting so many medieval institutions.
The spread of reformatory opinions resulted in a determined and largely successful attack upon
the monasteries, which were rightly believed to constitute the bulwark of papal power. So imperative
were the popular demands for a change, that popes and councils hastened to urge the members
of religious orders to abolish existing abuses by enforcing primitive rules. But while Rome
practically failed in her attempted reformations, the Protestant reformers in church and state
were widely successful in either curtailing the privileges and revenues of the monks or in
annihilating the monasteries.

Since the sixteenth century the leading governments of Europe, even including those in Catholic
countries, have given tangible expression to popular and political antagonism to monasticism,
by the abolition of convents, or the withdrawal of immunities and favors, for a long time a
source of monastic revenue and power. The results of this hostility have been so disastrous,
that monasticism has never regained its former prestige and influence. Several of the older
orders have risen from the ruins, and a few new communities have appeared, some of which are
distinguished by their most laudable ministrations to the poor and the sick, or by their educational
services. Yet notwithstanding the modifications of the system to suit the exigencies of modern
times, it seems altogether improbable that the monks will ever again wield the power they possessed
before the Reformation,

In the present chapter attention will be confined to the dissolution of the monasteries under
Henry VIII., in England. The suppression in that country was occasioned partly by peculiar,
local conditions, and was more radical and permanent than the reforms in other lands, yet it
is entirely consistent with our general purpose to restrict this narrative to English history.
Penetrating beneath the varying externalities attending the ruin of the monasteries in Germany,
Spain, France, Switzerland, Italy, and other countries, it will be found that the underlying
cause of the destruction of the monasteries was that the monastic ideal conflicted with the
spirit of the modern era. A conspicuous and dramatic example of this struggle between medievalism,
as embodied in the monastic institution, and modern political, social and religious ideals,
is to be found in the dissolution of the English monasteries. The narrative of the suppression
in England also conveys some idea of the struggle that was carried on throughout Europe, with
varying intensity and results.

There is no more striking illustration of the power of the personal equation in the interpretation
of history than that afforded by the conflicting opinions respecting the overthrow of monasticism
in England. Those who mourn the loss of the monasteries cannot find words strong enough with
which to condemn Henry VIII., whom they regard as "unquestionably the most unconstitutional,
the most vicious king that ever wore the English crown." Forgetting the inevitable cost of
human freedom, and lightly passing over the iniquities of the monastic system, they fondly
dwell upon the departed glory of the ancient abbeys. They recall with sadness the days when
the monks chanted their songs of praise in the chapels, or reverently bent over their books
of parchment, bound in purple and gold, not that they might "winnow the treasures of knowledge,
but that they might elicit love, compunction and devotion." The charming simplicity and loving
service of the cloister life, in the days of its unbroken vows, appeal to such defenders of
the monks with singular potency.

Truly, the fair-minded should attempt to appreciate the sorrow, the indignation and the love
of these friends of a ruined institution. Passionless logic will never enable one to do justice
to the sentiments of those who cannot restrain their tears as they stand uncovered before the
majestic remains of a Melrose Abbey, or properly to estimate the motives and methods of those
who laid the mighty monastic institution in the dust.

The Character of Henry VIII

Before considering the actual work of suppression, it may be interesting to glance at the royal
destroyer and his times. The character of Henry VIII. is utterly inexplicable to many persons,
chiefly because they do not reflect that even the inconsistencies of a great man may be understood
when seen in the light of his times. A masterly and comprehensive summary of the virtues and
vices of the Tudor monarch, who has been described as "the king, the whole king, and nothing
but the king," may be found in "A History of Crime in England," by Luke Owen Pike. The distinguished
author shows that in his brutality, his love of letters, his opposition to Luther, his vacillation
in religious opinions, King Henry reflects with remarkable fidelity the age in which he lived,
both in its contrasts and its inconsistencies. "It is only the previous history of England
which can explain all the contradictions exhibited in his conduct,--which can explain how he
could be rapacious yet sometimes generous, the Defender of the Faith yet under sentence of
excommunication, a burner of heretics yet a heretic himself, the pope's advocate yet the pope's
greatest enemy, a bloodthirsty tyrant yet the best friend to liberty of thought in religion,
an enthusiast yet a turncoat, a libertine and yet all but a Puritan. He was sensual because
his forefathers had been sensual from time immemorial, rough in speech and action because there
had been but few men in Britain who had been otherwise since the Romans abandoned the island.
He was superstitious and credulous because few were philosophical or gifted with intellectual
courage. Yet he had, what was possessed by his contemporaries, a faint and intermittent thirst
for knowledge, of which he himself hardly knew the meaning." Henry was shrewd, tenacious of
purpose, capricious and versatile. In spite of his unrestrained indulgences and his monstrous
claims of power, which, be it remembered, he was able to enforce, and notwithstanding any other
vices or faults that may be truthfully charged against him, he was, on the whole, a popular
king. Few monarchs have ever had to bear such a strain as was placed upon his abilities and
character. Rare have been the periods that have witnessed such confusion of principles, social,
political and religious. Those were the days when liberty was at work, "but in a hundred fantastical
and repulsive shapes, confused and convulsive, multiform, deformed." Blind violence and half-way
reforms characterized the age because the principles that were to govern modern times were
not yet formulated.

Judged apart from his times Henry appears as an arrogant, cruel and fickle ruler, whose virtues
fail to atone for his vices. But still, with all his faults, he compares favorably with preceding
monarchs and even with his contemporaries. If he had possessed less intelligence, courage and
ambition, he would not now be so conspicuous for his vices, but the history of human liberty
and free institutions, especially in England, would have been vastly different. His praiseworthy
traits were not sufficiently strong to enable him to control his inherited passions, but they
were too regnant to permit him to submit without a struggle to the hierarchy which had dominated
his country so many centuries. Such was

                "the majestic lord,
     That broke the bonds of Rome."

Events Preceding the Suppression

Many causes and incidents contributed to the progress of the reformation in England, and to
the demolition of the monasteries. Only a few of them can be given here, and they must be stated
with a brevity that conveys no adequate conception of their profound significance.

Henry VIII. ascended the throne, in the year 1509, when eighteen years of age. In 1517, Luther
took his stand against Rome. Four years later Henry wrote a treatise in defence of the Seven
Sacraments and in opposition to the German reformer. For this princely service to the church
the king received the title "Defender of the Faith" from Pope Leo X.

About 1527 it became known that Henry was questioning the validity of his marriage with Catharine
of Aragon, whom he had married when he was twelve years old. She was the widow of his brother
Arthur. The king professed conscientious scruples about his marriage, but undoubtedly his desire
for male offspring, and later, his passion for Anne Boleyn, prompted him to seek release from
his queen. In 1529, Henry and Catharine stood before a papal tribunal, presided over by Cardinal
Wolsey, the king's prime minister, and Cardinal Campeggio, from Rome, for the purpose of determining
the validity of the royal marriage. The trial was a farce. The enraged king laid the blame
upon Wolsey, and retired him from office. The great cardinal was afterwards charged with treason,
but died broken-hearted, on his way to the Tower, November 29, 1530.

The breach between Henry and Rome, complicated by numerous international intrigues, widened
rapidly. Henry began to assume an attitude of bold defiance toward the pope, which aroused
the animosity of the Catholic princes of Europe.

Notwithstanding the desire of a large body of the English people to remain faithful to Rome,
the dangers which menaced their country from abroad and the ecclesiastical abuses at home,
which had been a fruitful cause for complaint for many years, tended to lessen the ancient
horror of heresy and schism, and inclined them to support their king. Another factor that assisted
in preparing the English people for the destruction of the monasteries was Lollardism. As an
organized sect, the Lollards had ceased to exist, but the spirit and the doctrines of Wyclif
did not die. A real and a vital connection existed between the Lollards of the fourteenth,
and the reformers of the sixteenth, centuries. In Henry's time, many Englishmen held practically
the same views of Rome and of the monks that had been taught by Wyclif[I].

[Footnote I: Appendix, Note I.]

A considerable number of Henry's subjects, however, while ostensibly loyal to him, were inwardly
full of hot rebellion. The king was surrounded with perils. The princes of the Continent were
eagerly awaiting the bull for his excommunication. Henry's throne and his kingdom might at
any moment be given over by the pope to invasion by the continental sovereigns.

Reginald Pole, afterwards cardinal, a cousin of the king, and a strong Catholic, stood ready
to betray the interests of his country to Rome. Writing to the king, he said: "Man is against
you; God is against you; the universe is against you; what can you look for but destruction?"
"Dream not, Caesar," he encouragingly declared to Emperor Charles V., "that all generous hearts
are quenched in England; that faith and piety are dead. In you is their trust, in your noble
nature, and in your zeal for God--they hold their land till you shall come." Thus, on the testimony
of a Roman Catholic, there were traitors in England waiting only for the call of Charles V.,
"To arms!" Pole was in full sympathy with all the factions opposed to the king, and stood ready
to aid them in their resistance. He publicly denounced the king in several continental countries.

The monks were especially enraged against Henry. They did all they could to inflame the people
by preaching against him and the reformers. Friar Peyto, preaching before the king, had the
assurance to say to him: "Many lying prophets have deceived you, but I, as a true Micah, warn
you that the dogs will lick your blood as they did Ahab's." While the courage of this friar
is unquestioned, his defiant attitude illustrates the position occupied by the monks toward
those who favored separation from Rome. The whole country was at white heat. The friends of
Rome looked upon Henry as an incarnate fiend, a servant of the devil and an enemy of all religion.
Many of them opposed him with the purest and best motives, believing that the king was really
undermining the church of God and throwing society into chaos.

In 1531, the English clergy were coerced into declaring that Henry was "the protector and the
supreme head of the church and of the clergy of England," which absurd claim was slightly modified
by the words, "in so far as is permitted by the law of Christ." Chapuys, in one of his despatches
informing Charles V. of this action of convocation, said that it practically declared Henry
the Pope of England. "It is true," he wrote, "that the clergy have added to the declaration
that they did so only so far as permitted by the law of God. But that is all the same, as far
as the king is concerned, as if they had made no reservation, for no one will now be so bold
as to contest with his lord the importance of the reservation." Later on, Chapuys says that
the king told the pope's nuncio that "if the pope would not show him more consideration, he
would show the world that the pope had no greater authority than Moses, and that every claim
not grounded on Scripture was mere usurpation; that the great concourse of people present had
come solely and exclusively to request him to bastinado the clergy, who were hated by both
nobles and the people." The "Act of Succession" was also passed by Parliament, cutting off
Princess Mary and requiring all subjects to take an oath of allegiance to Elizabeth.

It was now an act of treason to deny the king's supremacy. All persons suspected of disloyalty
were required to sign an oath of allegiance to Henry, and to Elizabeth as his successor, and
to acknowledge the supremacy of the king in church and state. This resulted in the death of
some prominent men in the realm, among them Sir Thomas More. In the preamble of the oath prescribed
by law, the legality of the king's marriage with Anne was asserted, thus implying that his
former marriage with Catharine was unlawful. More was willing to declare his allegiance to
the infant Elizabeth, as the king's successor, but his conscience would not permit him to affirm
that Catharine's marriage was unlawful.

The life of the brilliant and lovable More is another illustration of the mental confusions
and inconsistencies of that age. As an apostle of culture he favored the new learning, and
yet he viewed the gathering momentum of reformatory principles with alarm, and cast in his
lot with the ultra-conservatives. Four years of his young manhood were spent in a monastery.
He devoted his splendid talents to a criticism of English society, and recommended freedom
of conscience, yet he became an ardent foe of reform and even a persecutor of heretics, of
whom he said: "I do so detest that class of men that, unless they repent, I am the worst enemy
they have." When a man, whom even Protestant historians hasten to pronounce "the glory of his
age," so magnificent were his talents and so blameless his character, was tainted with superstition,
and sanctioned the persecution of liberal thinkers, is it remarkable that inferior intellects
should have been swayed by the brutality and tyranny of the times?

