This is a marvelous exhibition of what energy and capital can do. You acknowledge as much to
the creators of it. You remember that not far back in history such a transformation as this
could not have been wrought in a hundred years. This is really life, this is doing something
in the world, and in the presence of it you can see why the creators of it regard your world,
which seemed to you so important, the world whose business is the evolution and expression
of thought and emotion, as insignificant. Here is a material addition to the business and wealth
of the race, here employment for men who need it, here is industry replacing stagnation, here
is the pleasure of overcoming difficulties and conquering obstacles. Why encounter these difficulties?
In order that more coal may be procured to operate more railway trains at higher speed, to
supply more factories, to add to the industrial stir of modern life. The men who projected
and are pushing on this enterprise, with an executive ability that would maintain and manoeuvre
an army in a campaign, are not, however, consciously philanthropists, moved by the charitable
purpose of giving employment to men, or finding satisfaction in making two blades of grass
grow where one grew before. They enjoy no doubt the sense of power in bringing things to pass,
the feeling of leadership and the consequence derived from its recognition; but they embark
in this enterprise in order that they may have the position and the luxury that increased wealth
will bring, the object being, in most cases, simply material advantages--sumptuous houses,
furnished with all the luxuries which are the signs of wealth, including, of course, libraries
and pictures and statuary and curiosities, the most showy equipages and troops of servants;
the object being that their wives shall dress magnificently, glitter in diamonds and velvets,
and never need to put their feet to the ground; that they may command the best stalls in the
church, the best pews in the theatre, the choicest rooms in the inn, and--a consideration that
Plato does not mention, because his world was not our world--that they may impress and reduce
to obsequious deference the hotel clerk.

This life--for this enterprise and its objects are types of a considerable portion of life--is
not without its ideal, its hero, its highest expression, its consummate flower. It is expressed
in a word which I use without any sense of its personality, as the French use the word Barnum--for
our crude young nation has the distinction of adding a verb to the French language, the verb
to barnum--it is expressed in the well-known name Croesus. This is a standard--impossible to
be reached perhaps, but a standard. If one may say so, the country is sown with seeds of Croesus,
and the crop is forward and promising. The interest to us now in the observation of this phase
of modern life is not in the least for purposes of satire or of reform. We are inquiring how
wholly this conception of life is divorced from the desire to learn what has been done and
said to the end that better things may be done and said hereafter, in order that we may understand
the popular conception of the insignificant value of literature in human affairs. But it is
not aside from our subject, rather right in its path, to take heed of what the philosophers
say of the effect in other respects of the pursuit of wealth.

The accumulation of gold in the treasury of private individuals, says Socrates, in the Republic,
is the ruin of democracy. They invent illegal modes of expenditure; and what do they or their
wives care about the law?

"And then one, seeing another's display, proposes to rival him, and thus the whole body of
citizens acquires a similar character.

"After that they get on in a trade, and the more they think of making a fortune, the less they
think of virtue; for when riches and virtue are placed together in the balance, the one always
rises as the other falls.

"And in proportion as riches and rich men are honored in the state, virtue and the virtuous
are dishonored.

"And what is honored is cultivated, and that which has no honor is neglected.

"And so at last, instead of loving contention and glory, men become lovers of trade and money,
and they honor and reverence the rich man and make a ruler of him, and dishonor the poor man.

"They do so." The argument, then, is right in declaring that the very rich are not good, and
if they are not good they are not happy.

Men cannot be happy unless they are good, and they cannot be good unless the care of the soul
occupies the first place in their thoughts. That is the first interest of man; the interest
in the body is midway; and last of all, when rightly regarded, is the interest about money.

The majority of mankind reverses this order of interests, and therefore it sets literature
to one side as of no practical account in human life. More than this, it not only drops it
out of mind, but it has no conception of its influence and power in the very affairs from which
it seems to be excluded. It is my purpose to show not only the close relation of literature
to ordinary life, but its eminent position in life, and its saving power in lives which do
not suspect its influence or value. Just as it is virtue that saves the state, if it be saved,
although the majority do not recognize it and attribute the salvation of the state to energy,
and to obedience to the laws of political economy, and to discoveries in science, and to financial
contrivances; so it is that in the life of generations of men, considered from an ethical and
not from a religious point of view, the most potent and lasting influence for a civilization
that is worth anything, a civilization that does not by its own nature work its decay, is that
which I call literature. It is time to define what we mean by literature. We may arrive at
the meaning by the definition of exclusion. We do not mean all books, but some books; not all
that is written and published, but only a small part of it. We do not mean books of law, of
theology, of politics, of science, of medicine, and not necessarily books of travel, or adventure,
or biography, or fiction even. These may all be ephemeral in their nature. The term belles-lettres
does not fully express it, for it is too narrow. In books of law, theology, politics, medicine,
science, travel, adventure, biography, philosophy, and fiction there may be passages that possess,
or the whole contents may possess, that quality which comes within our meaning of literature.
It must have in it something of the enduring and the universal. When we use the term art, we
do not mean the arts; we are indicating a quality that may be in any of the arts. In art and
literature we require not only an expression of the facts in nature and in human life, but
of feeling, thought, emotion. There must be an appeal to the universal in the race. It is,
for example, impossible for a Christian today to understand what the religious system of the
Egyptians of three thousand years ago was to the Egyptian mind, or to grasp the idea conveyed
to a Chinaman's thought in the phrase, "the worship of the principle of heaven"; but the Christian
of today comprehends perfectly the letters of an Egyptian scribe in the time of Thotmes III.,
who described the comical miseries of his campaign with as clear an appeal to universal human
nature as Horace used in his 'Iter Brundusium;' and the maxims of Confucius are as comprehensible
as the bitter-sweetness of Thomas a Kempis. De Quincey distinguishes between the literature
of knowledge and the literature of power. The definition is not exact; but we may say that
the one is a statement of what is known, the other is an emanation from the man himself; or
that one may add to the sum of human knowledge, and the other addresses itself to a higher
want in human nature than the want of knowledge. We select and set aside as literature that
which is original, the product of what we call genius. As I have said, the subject of a production
does not always determine the desired quality which makes it literature. A biography may contain
all the facts in regard to a man and his character, arranged in an orderly and comprehensible
manner, and yet not be literature; but it may be so written, like Plutarch's Lives or Defoe's
account of Robinson Crusoe, that it is literature, and of imperishable value as a picture of
human life, as a satisfaction to the want of the human mind which is higher than the want of
knowledge. And this contribution, which I desire to be understood to mean when I speak of literature,
is precisely the thing of most value in the lives of the majority of men, whether they are
aware of it or not. It may be weighty and profound; it may be light, as light as the fall of
a leaf or a bird's song on the shore; it may be the thought of Plato when he discourses of
the character necessary in a perfect state, or of Socrates, who, out of the theorem of an absolute
beauty, goodness, greatness, and the like, deduces the immortality of the soul; or it may be
the lovesong of a Scotch plowman: but it has this one quality of answering to a need in human
nature higher than a need for facts, for knowledge, for wealth.

In noticing the remoteness in the popular conception of the relation of literature to life,
we must not neglect to take into account what may be called the arrogance of culture, an arrogance
that has been emphasized, in these days of reaction from the old attitude of literary obsequiousness,
by harsh distinctions and hard words, which are paid back by equally emphasized contempt. The
apostles of light regard the rest of mankind as barbarians and Philistines, and the world retorts
that these self-constituted apostles are idle word-mongers, without any sympathy with humanity,
critics and jeerers who do nothing to make the conditions of life easier. It is natural that
every man should magnify the circle of the world in which he is active and imagine that all
outside of it is comparatively unimportant. Everybody who is not a drone has his sufficient
world. To the lawyer it is his cases and the body of law, it is the legal relation of men that
is of supreme importance; to the merchant and manufacturer all the world consists in buying
and selling, in the production and exchange of products; to the physician all the world is
diseased and in need of remedies; to the clergyman speculation and the discussion of dogmas
and historical theology assume immense importance; the politician has his world, the artist
his also, and the man of books and letters a realm still apart from all others. And to each
of these persons what is outside of his world seems of secondary importance; he is absorbed
in his own, which seems to him all-embracing. To the lawyer everybody is or ought to be a litigant;
to the grocer the world is that which eats, and pays--with more or less regularity; to the
scholar the world is in books and ideas. One realizes how possessed he is with his own little
world only when by chance he changes his profession or occupation and looks back upon the law,
or politics, or journalism, and sees in its true proportion what it was that once absorbed
him and seemed to him so large. When Socrates discusses with Gorgias the value of rhetoric,
the use of which, the latter asserts, relates to the greatest and best of human things, Socrates
says: I dare say you have heard men singing--at feasts the old drinking-song, in which the
singers enumerate the goods of life-first, health; beauty next; thirdly, wealth honestly acquired.
The producers of these things--the physician, the trainer, the money-maker--each in turn contends
that his art produces the greatest good. Surely, says the physician, health is the greatest
good; there is more good in my art, says the trainer, for my business is to make men beautiful
and strong in body; and consider, says the money-maker, whether any one can produce a greater
good than wealth. But, insists Gorgias, the greatest good of men, of which I am the creator,
is that which gives men freedom in their persons, and the power of ruling over others in their
several states--that is, the word which persuades the judge in the court, or the senators in
the council, or the citizens in the assembly: if you have the power of uttering this word,
you will have the physician your slave, and the trainer your slave, and the moneymaker of whom
you talk will be found to gather treasures, not for himself, but for those who are able to
speak and persuade the multitude.

What we call life is divided into occupations and interest, and the horizons of mankind are
bounded by them. It happens naturally enough, therefore, that there should be a want of sympathy
in regard to these pursuits among men, the politician despising the scholar, and the scholar
looking down upon the politician, and the man of affairs, the man of industries, not caring
to conceal his contempt for both the others. And still more reasonable does the division appear
between all the world which is devoted to material life, and the few who live in and for the
expression of thought and emotion. It is a pity that this should be so, for it can be shown
that life would not be worth living divorced from the gracious and ennobling influence of literature,
and that literature suffers atrophy when it does not concern itself with the facts and feelings
of men.

If the poet lives in a world apart from the vulgar, the most lenient apprehension of him is
that his is a sort of fool's paradise. One of the most curious features in the relation of
literature to life is this, that while poetry, the production of the poet, is as necessary
to universal man as the atmosphere, and as acceptable, the poet is regarded with that mingling
of compassion and undervaluation, and perhaps awe, which once attached to the weak-minded and
insane, and which is sometimes expressed by the term "inspired idiot." However the poet may
have been petted and crowned, however his name may have been diffused among peoples, I doubt
not that the popular estimate of him has always been substantially what it is today. And we
all know that it is true, true in our individual consciousness, that if a man be known as a
poet and nothing else, if his character is sustained by no other achievement than the production
of poetry, he suffers in our opinion a loss of respect. And this is only recovered for him
after he is dead, and his poetry is left alone to speak for his name. However fond my lord
and lady were of the ballad, the place of the minstrel was at the lower end of the hall. If
we are pushed to say why this is, why this happens to the poet and not to the producers of
anything else that excites the admiration of mankind, we are forced to admit that there is
something in the poet to sustain the popular judgment of his in utility. In all the occupations
and professions of life there is a sign put up, invisible--but none the less real, and expressing
an almost universal feeling--"No poet need apply." And this is not because there are so many
poor poets; for there are poor lawyers, poor soldiers, poor statesmen, incompetent business
men; but none of the personal disparagement attaches to them that is affixed to the poet. This
popular estimate of the poet extends also, possibly in less degree, to all the producers of
the literature that does not concern itself with knowledge. It is not our care to inquire further
why this is so, but to repeat that it is strange that it should be so when poetry is, and has
been at all times, the universal solace of all peoples who have emerged out of barbarism, the
one thing not supernatural and yet akin to the supernatural, that makes the world, in its hard
and sordid conditions, tolerable to the race. For poetry is not merely the comfort of the refined
and the delight of the educated; it is the alleviator of poverty, the pleasure-ground of the
ignorant, the bright spot in the most dreary pilgrimage. We cannot conceive the abject animal
condition of our race were poetry abstracted; and we do not wonder that this should be so when
we reflect that it supplies a want higher than the need for food, for raiment, or ease of living,
and that the mind needs support as much as the body. The majority of mankind live largely in
the imagination, the office or use of which is to lift them in spirit out of the bare physical
conditions in which the majority exist. There are races, which we may call the poetical races,
in which this is strikingly exemplified. It would be difficult to find poverty more complete,
physical wants less gratified, the conditions of life more bare than among the Oriental peoples
from the Nile to the Ganges and from the Indian Ocean to the steppes of Siberia. But there
are perhaps none among the more favored races who live so much in the world of imagination
fed by poetry and romance. Watch the throng seated about an Arab or Indian or Persian story-teller
and poet, men and women with all the marks of want, hungry, almost naked, without any prospect
in life of ever bettering their sordid condition; see their eyes kindle, their breathing suspended,
their tense absorption; see their tears, hear their laughter, note their excitement as the
magician unfolds to them a realm of the imagination in which they are free for the hour to
wander, tasting a keen and deep enjoyment that all the wealth of Croesus cannot purchase for
his disciples. Measure, if you can, what poetry is to them, what their lives would be without
it. To the millions and millions of men who are in this condition, the bard, the story-teller,
the creator of what we are considering as literature, comes with the one thing that can lift
them out of poverty, suffering--all the woe of which nature is so heedless.

It is not alone of the poetical nations of the East that this is true, nor is this desire for
the higher enjoyment always wanting in the savage tribes of the West. When the Jesuit Fathers
in 1768 landed upon the almost untouched and unexplored southern Pacific coast, they found
in the San Gabriel Valley in Lower California that the Indians had games and feasts at which
they decked themselves in flower garlands that reached to their feet, and that at these games
there were song contests which sometimes lasted for three days. This contest of the poets was
an old custom with them. And we remember how the ignorant Icelanders, who had never seen a
written character, created the splendid Saga, and handed it down from father to son. We shall
scarcely find in Europe a peasantry whose abject poverty is not in some measure alleviated
by this power which literature gives them to live outside it. Through our sacred Scriptures,
through the ancient storytellers, through the tradition which in literature made, as I said,
the chief continuity in the stream of time, we all live a considerable, perhaps the better,
portion of our lives in the Orient. But I am not sure that the Scotch peasant, the crofter
in his Highland cabin, the operative in his squalid tenement-house, in the hopelessness of
poverty, in the grime of a life made twice as hard as that of the Arab by an inimical climate,
does not owe more to literature than the man of culture, whose material surroundings are heaven
in the imagination of the poor. Think what his wretched life would be, in its naked deformity,
without the popular ballads, without the romances of Scott, which have invested his land for
him, as for us, with enduring charm; and especially without the songs of Burns, which keep
alive in him the feeling that he is a man, which impart to his blunted sensibility the delicious
throb of spring-songs that enable him to hear the birds, to see the bits of blue sky-songs
that make him tender of the wee bit daisy at his feet--songs that hearten him when his heart
is fit to break with misery. Perhaps the English peasant, the English operative, is less susceptible
to such influences than the Scotch or the Irish; but over him, sordid as his conditions are,
close kin as he is to the clod, the light of poetry is diffused; there filters into his life,
also, something of that divine stream of which we have spoken, a dialect poem that touches
him, the leaf of a psalm, some bit of imagination, some tale of pathos, set afloat by a poor
writer so long ago that it has become the common stock of human tradition-maybe from Palestine,
maybe from the Ganges, perhaps from Athens--some expression of real emotion, some creation,
we say, that makes for him a world, vague and dimly apprehended, that is not at all the actual
world in which he sins and suffers. The poor woman, in a hut with an earth floor, a reeking
roof, a smoky chimney, barren of comfort, so indecent that a gentleman would not stable his
horse in it, sits and sews upon a coarse garment, while she rocks the cradle of an infant about
whom she cherishes no illusions that his lot will be other than that of his father before him.
But, alas for the poet there is not a peasant nor a wretched operative of them all who will
not shake his head and tap his forehead with his forefinger when the poor poet chap passes
by. The peasant has the same opinion of him that the physician, the trainer, and the money-lender
had of the rhetorician.

The hard conditions of the lonely New England life, with its religious theories as sombre as
its forests, its rigid notions of duty as difficult to make bloom into sweetness and beauty
as the stony soil, would have been unendurable if they had not been touched with the ideal
created by the poet. There was in creed and purpose the virility that creates a state, and,
as Menander says, the country which is cultivated with difficulty produces brave men; but we
leave out an important element in the lives of the Pilgrims if we overlook the means they had
of living above their barren circumstances. I do not speak only of the culture which many of
them brought from the universities, of the Greek and Roman classics, and what unworldly literature
they could glean from the productive age of Elizabeth and James, but of another source, more
universally resorted to, and more powerful in exciting imagination and emotion, and filling
the want in human nature of which we have spoken. They had the Bible, and it was more to them,
much more, than a book of religion, than a revelation of religious truth, a rule for the conduct
of life, or a guide to heaven. It supplied the place to them of the Mahabharata to the Hindoo,
of the story-teller to the Arab. It opened to them a boundless realm of poetry and imagination.

