A KING'S COMRADE:

A Story of Old Hereford,

by Charles W. Whistler

  PREFACE.

  INTRODUCTORY.

  CHAPTER I. HOW THE FIRST DANES CAME TO ENGLAND.

  CHAPTER II. HOW WILFRID KEPT A PROMISE, AND SWAM IN PORTLAND

  CHAPTER III. HOW WILFRID MET ECGBERT THE ATHELING.

  CHAPTER IV. HOW WILFRID MET AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE IN NORWICH

  CHAPTER V. HOW WILFRID MET THE FLINT FOLK, AND OTHERS.

  CHAPTER VI. HOW WILFRID SPOKE WITH ETHELBERT THE KING.

  CHAPTER VII. HOW ETHELBERT'S JOURNEY BEGAN WITH PORTENTS.

  CHAPTER VIII. HOW ETHELBERT CAME TO THE PALACE OF SUTTON.

  CHAPTER IX. HOW QUENDRITHA THE QUEEN WOVE HER PLOTS.

  CHAPTER X. HOW GYMBERT THE MARSHAL LOST HIS NAME AS A GOOD

  CHAPTER XI. HOW ETHELBERT THE KING WENT TO HIS REST.

  CHAPTER XII. HOW QUENDRITHA THE QUEEN HAD HER WILL.

  CHAPTER XIII. HOW WILFRID AND ERLING BEGAN THEIR SEARCH.

  CHAPTER XIV. HOW WILFRID HAD A FRESH CARE THRUST ON HIM.

  CHAPTER XV. HOW WILFRID'S SEARCH WAS REWARDED.

  CHAPTER XVI. HOW WILFRID SPOKE ONCE MORE WITH OFFA.

  CHAPTER XVII. HOW WILFRID AND HIS CHARGE MET JEFAN THE

  CHAPTER XVIII. HOW JEFAN THE PRINCE GUARDED HIS GUESTS.

  CHAPTER XIX. HOW WILFRID CAME HOME TO WESSEX.

PREFACE.

Hereford Cathedral bears the name of Ethelbert of East Anglia, king and martyr, round whose
death, at the hands of the men of Offa of Mercia, this story of his comrade centres, and dates
its foundation from Offa's remorse for the deed which at least he had not prevented. In the
sanctuary itself stands an ancient battered statue--somewhat hard to find--of the saint, and
in the pavement hard by a modern stone bears a representation of his murder. The date of the
martyrdom is usually given as May 20, 792 A.D.

A brief mention of the occurrence is given under that date in the "Anglo-Saxon Chronicle,"
and full details are recorded by later historians, Matthew of Westminster and Roger of Wendover
being the most precise and full. The ancient Hereford Breviary preserves further details also,
for which I am indebted to my friend the Rev. H. Housman, B.D., of Bradley.

These authorities I have followed as closely as possible, only slightly varying the persons
to whom the portents, so characteristic of the times, occurred, and referring some--as is quite
possible, without detracting from their significance to men of that day--to natural causes.
Those who searched for the body of the king are unnamed by the chroniclers, and I have, therefore,
had no hesitation in putting the task into the hands of the hero of the tale. The whole sequence
of events is unaltered.

Offa's own part in the removal of the hapless young king is given entirely from the accounts
of the chroniclers, and the characters of Quendritha the queen and her accomplice Gymbert are
by no means drawn here more darkly than in their pages. The story of her voyage and finding
by Offa is from Brompton's Annals.

The first recorded landing of the Danes in Wessex, with which the story opens, is from the
"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle;" the name of the sheriff, and the account of the headstrong conduct
which led to his end, being added from Ethelwerd. The exact place of the landing is not stated;
but as it was undoubtedly near Dorchester, it may be located at Weymouth with sufficient probability.
For the reasons which led to the exile of Ecgbert, and to his long stay at the court of Carl
the Great, the authority is William of Malmesbury. The close correspondence between the Mercian
and Frankish courts is, of course, historic--Offa seeming most anxious to ally himself with
the great Continental monarch, if only in name. The position of the hero as an honoured and
independent guest at the hall of Offa would certainly be that assigned to an emissary from Carl.

With regard to the proper names involved, I have preferred to use modern forms rather than
the cumbrous if more correct spelling of the period. The name of the terrible queen, for example,
appears on her coins as "Cynethryth," and varies in the pages of the chroniclers from "Quendred"
to the form chosen as most simple for use today. And it has not seemed worth while to substitute
the ancient names of places for those in present use which sufficiently retain their earlier
form or meaning.

The whole story of King Ethelbert's wooing and its disastrous ending is a perfect romance in
all truth, without much need for enhancement by fiction, and perhaps has its forgotten influence
on many a modern romance, by the postponement of a wedding day until the month of May--so disastrous
for him and his bride--has passed.

C. W. WHISTLER.

STOCKLAND, 1904.

INTRODUCTORY.

A shore of dull green and yellow sand dunes, beyond whose low tops a few sea-worn pines and
birch trees show their heads, and at whose feet the gray sea hardly breaks in the heavy stillness
that comes with the near thunder of high summer. The tide is full and nearing the turn, and
the shore birds have gone elsewhere till their food is bared again at its falling. Only a few
dotterels, whose eggs lie somewhere near, run and flit, piping, to and fro, for a boat and
two men are resting at the very edge of the wave as if the ebb would see them afloat again.

Armed men they are, too, and the boat is new and handsome, graceful with the beautiful lines
of a northern shipwright's designing. She has mast and sail and one steering oar, but neither
rowlocks nor other oars to fit in them. One of the men is pacing quietly up and down the sand,
as if on the quarterdeck of a ship, and the other rests against the boat's gunwale.

"Nigh time," says one, glancing at the fringe of weed which the tide is beginning to leave.

"Ay, nigh, and I would it were past and over. It is a hard doom."

"No harder than is deserved. The doom ring and the great stone had been the end in days which
I can remember. That was the old Danish way."

The other man nods.

"But the jarl is merciful, as ever."

"When one finds a coiled adder, one slays it. One does not say, 'Bide alive, because I saw
you too soon to be harmed by you.' Mercy to the beast that might be, but not to the child who
shall some day set his hand on it."

"Eh, well! The wind is off shore, and it is a far cry to succour, and Ran waits the drowning."

"I know not that Ran cares for women."

"Maybe a witch like herself. They are coming!"

Now through a winding gap in the line of dunes comes from inland a little company of men and
women, swiftly and in silence. The two men range themselves on either bow of the boat, and
stand at attention as the newcomers near them, and so wait. Maybe there are two-score people,
led by a man and woman, who walk side by side without word or look passing between them. The
man is tall and handsome, armed in the close-knit ring-mail shirt of the Dane, with gemmed
sword hilt and golden mountings to scabbard and dirk, and his steel helm and iron-gray hair
seem the same colour in the shadowless light of the dull sky overhead. One would set his age
at about sixty years.

But the woman at his side is young and wonderfully lovely. She is dressed in white and gold,
and her hair is golden as the coiled necklace and armlets she wears, and hangs in two long
plaits far below her knees, though it is looped in the golden girdle round her waist. Fastened
to the girdle hangs the sheath of a little dagger, but there is no blade in it. She is plainly
of high rank, and unwedded. Now her fair face is set and hard, and it would almost seem that
despair was written on it.

After those two the other folk seem hardly worth a glance, though they are richly dressed,
and the men are as well armed as the jarl their leader. Nor do they seem to have eyes for any
but those two at their head, and no word passes among them. Their faces also are set and hard,
as if they had somewhat heavy to see to, and would fain carry it through to the end unflinching.

So they come to the edge of the sea, where the boat waits them, and there halt; and the tall
jarl faces the girl at his side, and speaks to her in a dull voice, while the people slowly
make a half circle round them, listening.

"Now we have come to the end," he says, "and from henceforth this land shall know you and the
ways of you no more. There were other dooms which men had thought more fitting for you, but
they were dooms of death. You shall not die at our hands. You are young, and you have time
to bethink you whither the ways you have trodden shall lead you. If the sea spares you, begin
life afresh. If it spares you not, maybe it is well. No others shall be beguiled by that fair
face of yours. The Norns heed not the faces of men."

He pauses; but the girl stands silent, hand locked in hand, and with no change of face. Nor
does she look at her accuser, but gazes steadily out to the still sea, which seems endless,
for there is no line between sea and sky in the hot haze. For all its exceeding beauty, hers
is an evil face to look on at this time. And the women who gaze on her have no pity in their
eyes, nor have the men.

Once again the great jarl speaks, and his words are cold and measured.

"Also, I and our wisest hold that what you have tried to compass was out of the longing for
power that ever lies in the heart of youth. We had done no more than laugh thereat had you
been content to try to win your will with the ancient wiles of woman that lie in beauty and
weakness. But for the evil ways in which you have wrought the land is accursed, and will be
so as long as we suffer you. Go hence, and meet elsewhere what fate befalls you. In the skill
you have in the seaman's craft is your one hope. We leave it you."

Then, without a word of answer or so much as a look aside, the girl of her own accord steps
into the boat; and at a sign from their lord the two men launch her from the shelving sand
into the sea, following her, knee deep, among the little breakers that hardly hinder their
steps. They see that in her look is deepest hate and wrath, but they pay no heed to it. And
even as their hands leave the gunwale, the girl goes to the mast, and with the skill and ease
of long custom hoists the sail, and so making fast the halliard deftly, comes aft again to
ship the steering oar, and seat herself as the breeze wakes the ripples at the bow and the
land slips away from her. She has gone, and never looks back.

Then a sort of sigh whispers among the women folk on shore; but it is not as a sigh of grief,
but rather as if a danger had passed from the land. They know that the boat must needs drive
but as the wind takes her, for oars wherewith to row against it are none, and the long summer
spell of seaward breezes has set in. The jarl folds his arms and bides still in his place,
and the two men still stand in the water, watching. And so the boat and its fair burden of
untold ill fades into the mist and grows ghostly, and is lost to sight; and across the dunes
the clouds gather, and the thunder mutters from inland with the promise of long-looked-for
rain to a parched and starving folk.

* * * *

Through the long summer morning Offa, the young King of Mercia, has hunted across the rich
Lindsey marshes which lie south of the Humber; and now in the heat of the noon he will leave
his party awhile and ride with one thane only to the great Roman bank which holds back the
tides, and seek a cool breath from the salt sea, whose waves he can hear. So he sets spurs
to his great white steed, and with the follower after him, rides to where the high sand dunes
are piled against the bank, and reins up on their grassy summit, and looks eastward across
the most desolate sands in all England, gull-haunted only.

"Here is a marvel," he cries, turning to his thane. "Many a time have I hunted along this shore,
but never before have I seen the like of this here."

He laughs, and points below him toward the sand, and his thane rides nearer. The tide has crept
almost to the foot of the ancient sea wall, and gently rocking on it lies a wondrously beautiful
boat with red and white sail set, but with no man, or aught living beyond the white terns which
hover and swoop about it, to be seen.

"'Tis a foreign boat," says the thane. "Our folk cannot frame such an one as this. Doubtless
she has broken her line from astern of some ship last night, and so has been wafted hither."

"Men do not tow a boat with her sail set," laughs the king. "Let us go and see her."

So they ride shoreward across the dunes, and ever the breeze edges the boat nearer and nearer,
till at last she is at rest on the edge of the tide, lifting now and then as some little wave
runs beneath her sharp stern. For once the North Sea is still, and even the brown water of
the Humber tides is blue across the yellow sands.

The horses come swiftly and noiselessly across the strand, but the white steed of the king
is restless as he nears the boat, sniffing the air and tossing his head. The king speaks to
him, thinking that it is the swinging sail which he pretends to fear. And then the horse starts
and almost rears, for at the sound of the clear voice there rises somewhat from the hollow
of the little craft, and the king himself stays in amaze.

For he sees before him the most wondrously beautiful maiden his eyes have rested on, golden-haired
and blue-eyed, wan and weary with the long voyage from the far-off shore, and holding out to
him piteous hands, blistered with the rough sheet and steering oar. She says naught, but naught
is needed.

"Lady," he says, doffing his gold-circled cap, "have no fear. All is well, and you are safe.
Whence come you?"

But he has no answer, for the maiden sinks back into the boat swooning. Then in all haste the
king sends his thane for help to the party they have left; and so he sits on the boat's gunwale
and watches the worn face pityingly.

Now come his men, and at his word they tend the maiden with all care, so that very soon she
revives again, and can tell her tale. Beyond the hunger and thirst there has indeed been little
hardship to a daughter of the sea in the summer weather, for the breeze has been kindly and
steady, and the boat stanch and swift. There has been rain too, gentle, and enough to stave
off the utmost thirst.

All this she tells the king truly; and then he must know how she came to lose her own shore.
And at that she weeps, but is ready. In the long hours she has conned every tale that may be
made, and it is on her lips.

She is the orphan daughter of a Danish jarl, she says, and her father has been slain. She has
been set adrift by the chief who has taken her lands, for her folk had but power to ask that
grace for her. He would have slain her, but that they watched him. Doubtless he had poisoned
their minds against her, or they would not have suffered thus far of ill to her even. Otherwise
she cannot believe so ill of them. It is all terrible to her.

And so, with many tears, she accounts for her want of oars, and provides against the day when
some chapman from beyond seas shall know her and tell the tale of her shame. At the end she
weeps, and begs for kindness to an outcast pitifully.

There is no reason why men should not believe the tale, and told with those wondrous tear-dimmed
eyes on them, they doubt not a word of it. It is no new thing that a usurper should make away
with the heiress, and doubtless they think her beauty saved her from a worse fate.

So in all honour the maiden is taken to Lincoln, and presently given into the care of one of
the great ladies of the court.

But as they ride homeward with the weary maiden in the midst of the company, Offa the king
is silent beyond his wont, so that the thane who rode yonder with him asks if aught is amiss.

"Naught," answers Offa. "But if it is true that men say that none but a heaven-sent bride will
content me, maybe this is the one of whom they spoke."

Now, if it was longing for power and place which had tempted this maiden to ill in the old
home, here she sees her way to more than her wildest dream plain before her; and she bends
her mind to please, and therein prospers. For when wit and beauty go hand in hand that is no
hard matter. So in no long time it comes to pass that she has gained all she would, and is
queen of all the Mercian land, from the Wash to the Thames, and from Thames to Trent, and from
Severn to the Lindsey shore; for Offa has wedded her, and all who see her rejoice in his choice,
holding her as a heaven-sent queen indeed, so sweetly and lowly and kindly she bears herself.
Nor for many a long year can she think of aught which would bring her more power, so that even
she deems that the lust of it is dead within her. Only for many a year she somewhat fears the
coming of every stranger from beyond the sea lest she may be known, until it is certain that
none would believe a tale against their queen.

Yet when that time comes there are old counsellors of the Witan who will say among themselves
that they deem Quendritha the queen the leader and planner of all that may go to the making
great the kingdom of the Mercians; and there are one or two who think within themselves that,
were she thwarted in aught she had set her mind on, she might have few scruples as to how she
gained her ends. But no man dare put that thought into words.

CHAPTER I. HOW THE FIRST DANES CAME TO ENGLAND.

Two fair daughters had Offa, the mighty King of Mercia, and Quendritha his queen. The elder
of those two, Eadburga, was wedded to our Wessex king, Bertric, in the year when my story begins,
and all men in our land south of the Thames thought that the wedding was a matter of full rejoicing.
There had been but one enemy for Wessex to fear, besides, of course, the wild Cornish, who
were of no account, and that enemy was Mercia. Now the two kingdoms were knit together by the
marriage, and there would be lasting peace.

Wherefore we all rejoiced, and the fires flamed from the hilltops, and in the towns men feasted
and drank to the alliance, and dreamed of days of unbroken ease to come, wherein the weapons,
save always for the ways of the border Welsh, should rust on the wall, and the trodden grass
of the old camps of the downs on our north should grow green in loneliness. And that was a
good dream, for our land had been torn with war for overlong--Saxon against Angle, Kentishman
against Sussexman, Northumbrian against Mercian, and so on in a terrible round of hate and
jealousy and pride, till we tired thereof, and the rest was needed most sorely.

And in that same year the shadow of a new trouble fell on England, and none heeded it, though
we know it over well now--the shadow of the coming of the Danes. My own story must needs begin
with that, for I saw its falling, and presently understood its blackness.

I had been to Winchester with my father, Ethelward the thane of Frome Selwood, to see the bringing
home of the bride by our king, and there met a far cousin of ours, with whom it was good to
enjoy all the gay doings of the court for the week while we were there. He belonged to Dorchester,
and taking as much fancy to my company as a man double his age can have pleasure in the ways
of a lad of eighteen, he asked me to ride home with him, and so stay in his house for a time,
seeing the new country, and hunting with him for a while before I went home. And my father
being very willing that I should do so, I went accordingly, and merry days on down and in forest
I had with Elfric the thane, this new-found cousin of ours.

So it came to pass that one day we found ourselves on the steep of a down whence we could overlook
the sea and the deep bay of Weymouth, with the great rock of Portland across it; and the width
and beauty of that outlook were wonderful to me, whose home was inland, in the fair sunshine
of late August. We had come suddenly on it as we rode, and I reined up my horse to look with
a sort of cry of pleasure, so fair the blue water and dappled sky and towering headland, grass
and woodland and winding river, leaped on my eyes. And in the midst of the still bay three
beautiful ships were heading for the land, the long oars rising and falling swiftly, while
the red and white striped sails hung idly in the calm. One could see the double of each ship
in the water, broken wonderfully by the ripple of the oars, and after each stretched a white
wake like a path seaward.

My cousin stayed his horse also with a grip of the reins that brought him up short, and he
also made an exclamation, but by no means for the same reason as myself.

"Ho!" he said, "what are these ships?"

Then he set his hand to his forehead and looked long at them from under it, while I watched
them also, unknowing that there was anything unusual in the sight for one who lived so near
the sea and the little haven of Weymouth below us.

"Well, what do you think of them?" I asked presently.

"On my word, I do not know," he answered thoughtfully. "They are no Frisian traders, and I
have never seen their like before. Moreover, it seems to me that they are full of armed men.
See how the sun sparkles on their decks here and there!"

But we were too far off to make out more than that, and as we watched it was plain that the
ships would make for the river mouth and haven.

"We will ride down and see more of them," said my cousin. "I only hope--"

There he stayed his words; but I saw that his face had grown grave of a sudden, and knew that
some heavy thought had crossed his mind.

"What?" I asked.

"It must be impossible," he said slowly--"and this is between you and me--for it seems foolish.
But have you heard of the northern strangers who have harried the Welsh beyond the Severn sea?"

I had heard of them, of course, for they traded with the Devon men at times, having settled
in towns of their own in Wales beyond the Severn. It was said that they were heathen, worshipping
the same gods whom our forefathers had worshipped, and were akin to ourselves, with a tongue
not unlike our own at all, and easy to be understood by us. Also they had fought the Welsh,
as we had to fight them; but one heard of them only as strangers who had naught to do with
us Saxons.

"Well, then," my cousin said, "suppose these are more of the northern folk."

"If they are, they will have come to trade," I said lightly. "But they will more likely be
men from the land across this sea--men from the land of the Franks, such as we saw at Winchester
the other day."

"Maybe, maybe," he said. "We shall see presently."

So we rode on. I dare say we had four miles to go before we came to the outskirts of Weymouth
village, and by that time the ships were in the haven. By that time also the Weymouth folk
were leaving the place, and that hastily; and before we were within half a mile of the nearest
houses we met two men on horseback, who rode fast on the road toward Dorchester.

"What is amiss?" cried my cousin as they neared us.

The men knew him well, and stayed.

"Three strange ships in the haven, and their crews ashore armed, and taking all they can lay
their hands on. We are going to the sheriff; where is he?"

"Home at Dorchester. Whence are the ships? Have they hurt any one?"

