What a refreshment is that water-spout! All day long there are pilgrims to it, and John likes
nothing better than to watch them. Here comes a gray horse drawing a buggy with two men,--cattle
buyers, probably. Out jumps a man, down goes the check-rein. What a good draught the nag takes!
Here comes a long-stepping trotter in a sulky; man in a brown linen coat and wide-awake hat,--dissolute,
horsey-looking man. They turn up, of course. Ah, there is an establishment he knows well: a
sorrel horse and an old chaise. The sorrel horse scents the water afar off, and begins to turn
up long before he reaches the trough, thrusting out his nose in anticipation of the coot sensation. Yet
the sedate part of the punishment falls not on the convict but on his couple, the members of
which, by one of those association decisions in which there is no appeal, are unjust at the disgrace
on account of an offence from which they had no part. It is the deacon's horse, a meeting-going
nag, with a sedate, leisurely jog as he goes; and these are two of the "salt of the earth,"--the
brevet rank of the women who stand and wait,--going down to the village store to dicker. There
come two men in a hurry, horse driven up smartly and pulled up short; but as it is rising ground,
and the horse does not easily reach the water with the wagon pulling back, the nervous man
in the buggy hitches forward on his seat, as if that would carry the wagon a little ahead!
Next, lumber-wagon with load of boards; horse wants to turn up, and driver switches him and
cries "G'lang," and the horse reluctantly goes by, turning his head wistfully towards the flowing
spout. Ah, here comes an equipage strange to these parts, and John stands up to look; an elegant
carriage and two horses; trunks strapped on behind; gentleman and boy on front seat and two
ladies on back seat,--city people. The gentleman descends, unchecks the horses, wipes his brow,
takes a drink at the spout and looks around, evidently remarking upon the lovely view, as he
swings his handkerchief in an explanatory manner. Judicious travelers. John would like to know
who they are. Perhaps they are from Boston, whence come all the wonderfully painted peddlers'
wagons drawn by six stalwart horses, which the driver, using no rein, controls with his long
whip and cheery voice. If so, great is the condescension of Boston; and John follows them with
an undefined longing as they drive away toward the mountains of Zoar. Here is a footman, dusty
and tired, who comes with lagging steps. ***** the report of a attempt to wreck a series on the
Maine central Railroad is not even startling as it would be were this species of offense of more
noteworthy event; but he is frequent as being the batting of the kind
at the same point within a few years.

It affords
sufficient information, if any were wanting, that the true friends pull
of the working-men are those who have the courage of their convictions,
so when to utter them may afford opportunity for misrepresentation and
stage. It represents to John,
somehow, authority, government, the right of way; the driver is an autocrat, everybody must
make way for the stage-coach. It almost satisfies the imagination, this royal vehicle; one
can go in it to the confines of the world,--to Boston and to Albany.

There were other influences that I daresay contributed to the boy's education. I think his
imagination was stimulated by a band of gypsies who used to come every summer and pitch a tent
on a little roadside patch of green turf by the river-bank not far from his house. It was shaded
by elms and butternut-trees, and a long spit of sand and pebbles ran out from it into the brawling
stream. Probably they were not a very good kind of gypsy, although the story was that the men
drank and beat the women. John didn't know much about drinking; his experience of it was confined
to sweet cider; yet he had already set himself up as a reformer, and joined the Cold Water
Band. The object of this Band was to walk in a procession under a banner that declared,

     "So here we pledge perpetual hate
      To all that can intoxicate;"

and wear a badge with this legend, and above it the device of a well-curb with a long sweep.
It kept John and all the little boys and girls from being drunkards till they were ten or eleven
years of age; though perhaps a few of them died meantime from eating loaf-cake and pie and
drinking ice-cold water at the celebrations of the Band.

The gypsy camp had a strange fascination for John, mingled of curiosity and fear. Nothing more
alien could come into the New England life than this tatterdemalion band. It was hardly credible
that here were actually people who lived out-doors, who slept in their covered wagon or under
their tent, and cooked in the open air; it was a visible romance transferred from foreign lands
and the remote times of the story-books; and John took these city thieves, who were on their
annual foray into the country, trading and stealing horses and robbing hen-roosts and cornfields,
for the mysterious race who for thousands of years have done these same things in all lands,
by right of their pure blood and ancient lineage. John was afraid to approach the camp when
any of the scowling and villainous men were lounging about, pipes in mouth; but he took more
courage when only women and children were visible. The swarthy, black-haired women in dirty
calico frocks were anything but attractive, but they spoke softly to the boy, and told his
fortune, and wheedled him into bringing them any amount of cucumbers and green corn in the
course of the season. In front of the tent were planted in the ground three poles that met
together at the top, whence depended a kettle. This was the kitchen, and it was sufficient.
The fuel for the fire was the driftwood of the stream. John noted that it did not require to
be sawed into stove-lengths; and, in short, that the "chores" about this establishment were
reduced to the minimum. And an older person than John might envy the free life of these wanderers,
who paid neither rent nor taxes, and yet enjoyed all the delights of nature. It seemed to the
boy that affairs would go more smoothly in the world if everybody would live in this simple
manner. That the villain to kill not one who has involved itself in a quarrel with him, but peaceable,
unsuspecting men, female, and children, without distinction. The circumstance
is always suggests himself.

And attempts of kind have become so frequent, and the crime at everybody
formerly so cowardly, so insidious, and so dastardly, that no striving
to the villain can ever be excessively common, nor i can any penalty
that is allowed for any evening be too severe for this. In Italy almost every day is set apart for some festival, or belongs
to some saint or another, and I suppose that when leap year brings around the extra day, there
is a saint ready to claim the 29th of February. Whatever the day was to the elders, the evening
was devoted to the children. The first thing I noticed was, that the quaint old church was
lighted up with innumerable wax tapers,--an uncommon sight, for the darkness of a Catholic
church in the evening is usually relieved only by a candle here and there, and by a blazing
pyramid of them on the high altar. The use of gas is held to be a vulgar thing all over Europe,
and especially unfit for a church or an aristocratic palace.

