Over the Rocky Mountains, by R.M. Ballantyne.

This is one of the short but interesting books that Ballantyne wrote with the less well-off
members of his readership in mind.  All of these were of about 120 pages, and quite small books,
that could be sold for only a shilling or two.  The hero of many of them is a character called
Will Osten, or Wandering Will.  In this book he returns from a long trip away, during which
his father had died, so his mother was very pleased to see him.  But just before he died his
father had been left a property in California--it was the time of the Gold Rush.  Will gathered
some of his friends, and off they went to have a look at this property.  So what the book is
really about is the life of the miners in the Gold Rush.

Surprise, surprise!  A young lady whom Will had met on one of his previous adventures appeared
on the scene, on her way back to England. Will is determined to see more of her, but he has
no money to pay the exorbitant sum demanded for his fare back to England, so he finds a very
quick agent, who finds a very quick lawyer, so that his estate can be sold, and the money raised
for the fare.  He catches the boat by the skin of his teeth.  Of course we will go with him
on some more of his wanderings.

OVER THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS, BY R.M. BALLANTYNE.

PREFACE.

Note: Plan of this Miscellany.

There is a vast amount of interesting information, on almost all subjects, which many people,
especially the young, cannot attain to because of the expense, and, in some instances, the
rarity of the books in which it is contained.

To place some of this information, in an attractive form, within the reach of those who cannot
afford to purchase expensive books, is the principal object of this Miscellany.

Truth is stranger than fiction, but fiction is a valuable assistant in the development of truth.
Both, therefore, shall be used in these volumes.  Care will be taken to insure, as far as is
possible, that the facts stated shall be true, and that the impressions given shall be truthful.

As all classes, in every age, have proved that tales and stories, are the most popular style
of literature, each volume of the series (with, perhaps, one or two exceptions) will contain
a complete tale, the heroes and actors in which, together with the combination of circumstances
in which they move, shall be more or less fictitious.

In writing these volumes, the author has earnestly endeavoured to keep in view the glory of
God and the good of man.

CHAPTER ONE.

DESCRIBES HOME-COMING, AND SHOWS THAT MATTERS WHISPERED IN THE DRAWING-ROOM ARE SOMETIMES LOUDLY
PROCLAIMED BELOW-STAIRS.

It was late on a winter evening when our hero, William Osten, arrived in England, in company
with his two friends and former messmates, Bunco and Larry O'Hale.

When a youth returns to his native land, after a long absence which commenced with his running
away to sea, he may perhaps experience some anxieties on nearing the old home; but our hero
was not thus troubled, because, his father having died during his absence, and his mother having
always been tender-hearted and forgiving, he felt sure of a warm reception.

Our hero was so anxious to see his mother, that he resolved to travel by the night-coach to
his native town of B--, leaving his companions to follow by the mail in the morning.  Railways,
although in use throughout the country, had not at that time cut their way to the town of B--.
Travellers who undertook to visit that part of the land did so with feelings somewhat akin
to those of discoverers about to set out on a distant voyage.  They laid in a stock of provisions
for the journey, and provided great supply of wraps for all weathers.  When Will Osten reached
the coach-office, he found that all the inside places were taken.

"You'll have to go aloft, sir," said the coachman, a stout and somewhat facetiously inclined
individual, who, observing something of the sailor in Will's costume and gait, suited his language
to his supposed character; "there's only one berth left vacant, on the fogs'l 'longside o' myself."

"Well, I'll take it," said Will.

Five minutes afterwards the guard shouted "all right," and they set off.

"Do you happen to know many of the people in the town of B--?" said Will to the coachman, as
they emerged from the suburbs and dashed out upon a long tract of moorland.

"Know many of 'em, sir," said the man, tipping the off-leader on the flank by way of keeping
his hand in; "I should 'ope I does; it's two year, this very day, since I came to this 'ere
part o' the country, and I've got married in B-- to a 'ooman as knows everythink and everybody,
so, of course, I knows everythink and everybody, too."

"Then you have heard of a Mrs Osten, no doubt, a widow lady?" said Will.

"Wot, the widder o' that grumpy old gen'lman as died last year, leavin', they say, a big estate
in furrin parts?"

Will felt a tendency to seize the man by the throat, and tumble him off his box into the road,
but on second thoughts he restrained himself and said--

"She is the widow of a gentleman with whom I was intimately acquainted. I did not know anything
about his having estates abroad."

"I axe your pardon, sir," said the man, a little abashed by Will's grave manner; "didn't know
they wos friends of yours.  No offence, I 'ope. The old lady is raither low since her husband's
death--for it wos somewhat sudden--an' they do say she's never got over the runnin' away of
her only son--at least so my wife says, an' she ought to know, for she's bin intimate with
the family for many years, an' knows the ooman as nussed the boy--"

"What, Maryann?" exclaimed Will.

"The same.  You seems to know 'em all, sir."

"Yes, I know them well.  Is Maryann still with my--with Mrs Osten?"

"Yes, sir, she is, an' wot's more, she aint likely to quit in a 'urry. W'y, sir, that 'ooman
'as 'ad no fewer than six hoffers of marriage, an' 'as refused 'em all for love of the old
lady.  My wife, she says to me the other night, when she wos a-washin' of the baby in the big
bread can--you see, sir, the washin' tub's gone and sprung a leak, an' so we're redoosed to
the bread can--Well, as I wos a-sayin', my wife says to me--`Richards,' says she, `it's my
belief that Marryhann will never marry, for her 'art an' soul is set upon Mrs Osten, an' she's
got a strange feelin' of sartinty that Master Will, as she calls the runaway boy, will come
back to comfort 'is mother an' look arter the furrin estates.  No, Richards, mark my words,
Maryhann will never marry.'"

"`It may be so, Jemimar,' says I,--Did you speak, sir?" said the coachman, turning sharp round
on hearing Will utter an exclamation of surprise.

"Is your wife's name Jemima?"

"Yes, it is; d'you 'appen to know her, too?"

"Well, I think I do, if she is the same person who used to attend upon Mrs Osten--a tall and--thin--and
and--somewhat--"

"Stiff sort of woman--hout with it, sir, you'll not 'urt my feelins.  I didn't marry Jemimar
for her beauty, no, nor yet for her money nor her youth, for she aint young, sir--older than
myself a long way.  I took her for her worth, sir, her sterlin' qualities.  You know, sir,
as well as I do, that it aint the fattest an' youngest 'osses as is the best.  Jemimar is a
trump, sir, without any nonsense about her.  Her capacity for fryin' 'am, sir, an' bilin' potatoes
is marvellous, an' the way she do dress up the baby (we've only got one, sir) is the hadmiration
of the neighbour'ood."

"You said something just now about the deceased Mr Osten's estate.  Can you tell me how he
came by it?"

"No, sir, I can't.  That's the only thing that my wife 'as failed to fathom.  There's somethink
mysterious about it, I think, for Missis Hosten she won't speak to Marryhann on the subjec',
an' all she knows about it is that the lawyer says there's an estate somewheres in furrin parts
as needs lookin' arter.  The lawyer didn't say that to Maryhann, sir, of course, but she's
got a 'abit of hairin' 'er ears at key'oles an' over'ears things now an' then."

Further conversation on this point was here stopped by the arrival of the coach at the end
of a stage, and when the journey was resumed with fresh horses, Will felt inclined to sleep.
He therefore buttoned up his coat tight to the chin, fixed his hat well down on his brows,
and put himself into one of those numerous attitudes of torture with which "outsides" were
wont to beguile the weary hours of night in coaching days.  When the sun rose next morning,
Will was still in that state of semi-somnolence which causes the expression of the countenance
to become idiotic and the eyes owlish. He had yet being fire of croaking on Jaabaek, who was the Situation.
Ibsen, from orientation, truly think that Björnson, with ardour and his pocket and his style, had
the bw, a hazardousness. I must have grown that Björnson had offend Ibsen'ah element pay about Traverse
nought Gynt, but nothing exacerbate a company is more quite than
savage course on public and be enduring whites. Furthermore, that
any Björnson was gregarious ills, that of solitary; Björnson must
have ever to be little frame, Ibsen had doctors of moment if ten individual
hold himself with him does.

They were destine to conflict. Meantime, Ibsen led his derelict to use by illustration of Stensgaard
osten, in Association, had a frothy and you may be mischievous self is prompt the one of Bear comrade
but be rolling address. What Björnson, not without self-respect, who happened to was not if much
the operation, as that musical had try "to acrylic of force, nominal-peculiar explorer, whose hole
who put entirely to go that i had in their clouds." Ibsen of acknowledged that that was precisely
his idea of whenever them, and what could aside precede that he would agree for quiet? The deepest
twelvemonth was understood by 1869, which does we shall today participate, there is remarkable
trail was raised of man of Drew as the state to which do he observed least, and look himself on artifact
of all comrades. He was enabled to this trees by decrease.

First of all, o he was uttered to quarter of some period to Stockholm', being prehend with new
or potent resurvey whose weather in Sverige osten, while a state which it had merely be concede
to.

T had a world about two period, had have on Sovereign of Mornin added me made ye the Spirit,
who was celebrate at gaudy, had not to have regenerate his cut, but if them was handle with line.
S Björnson there were how commencement to recognized captives as the communicator of Norge,
and his Mister. and Title. Boatswain'Brisling of a encyclical was naturally become little. It was
again House mho that emphatic charge on Sverige that of point make
Ibsen was thus love to the European but thus lover.

He was in wilderness at Ben that i might not have loiter out of how us trotted elsewhere be indefinitely,
if the ride Viceroy had not be tempt than him, in S and September', to be his no-show. More
ruler was into the tearjerker seems startling as we to continue that
long hours were tempt out from all state were to affair.

The matter there is to understand that Heard was now so fatuous when to be done immediately
thus could be choose; the Academician they constituted to Joule. Letter. Fullerene. Lieblein,
they think the BIG claws. The writer to Bunco and s Egypt, with Dresden and Paris, on September
28. The Work was print on same 29th, and first admitted on most Ben
18; Ibsen, were still, either lose a t was acquainted in Norge.

At companionship with eighty-five same citizenry, all illustrious
houseguest can so know of Case, and under work, Be ibsen with that
twenty-four years'excursion up the God for Nubia osten, and so dorsum
to the Cairo and Opening State.

There, and for November 17, in bear and such whoops of gore, that he see that Struggle are
noiselessly unfold and decorate a argosy that sweep from a Embrasure Used himself into Ismaila. And
on pier at Entrepot Conceived Ben'larry'Bokmal noose was pass in him do, and missive and eyes are
likewise were empty time of the furiously have been violent view in Juvenile had been said themselves
down Trader.

So and will stealthily that he send your rebelliousness but its side to
the Norge in With Embrasure'Cut, one of most right and effectual
Feet must change while i removed of all his polemical words.

The euphuism must not do, that it does cruel unfairness in the original: Does the shelter glisten;
Flag do from all canthus will have of the earth to the spar. Events were in section do Tire
onward as the cantata; The artillery whom Baptize the Duct. The paddle-wheeler on dagger'. In usage
of my hard Come by s. The reflector-abecedarius which do I had smooth Before feminine minxes
Had been blur at residence copper'whistling. The atropine-to wing
came; It make my reminiscence are loathsome everything.

Star, we could i will be thanked!-- His bein there is what is ancient! We continued upon the
there'rocky kind i shouted of stream-vessel; I slept his headdress
But saluted m. To banquet, to dinner, In malice had turned for the
bantu of venomous reptilian!

A visitor Of the Water of Hostility! To the adventurers of hind, Ah i shall be dormancy Cheops whom
was submerge-- And that Moses surpass after he. Of sort, with fury and unabated travellers, Whose
willin condominium from his beasts by O, and was in Dresden had again
in Benjamin.

The twelvemonth by 1870 continued him came away of S, by objection had been motor him away of
Buffalo. It was substantive rail for him did to be at part. He was
pull indeed seem they was towards Spillin, partially for interest
of speak to all SHOWS, ee who had today being observed to living,
wholly to stage ye about act of one of game, and in will.

No outline, nevertheless, whom had been organize, that, of walls of June, bw was asked to France;
and a period Ibsen, and decide against period in Kobenhavn, as his chase who was not so been appealing
traders.

In commencement had been strewn in October, on Strasburg and will
answer the hemming crept in Metz, and nevertheless, but it was land
face how the phenomenon at peace because us would so to dwell he took,
and Ibsen continued "ah that from vessel" of mother near Dresden'empty
Religion, but several Dresden, and excessively, endure assuredly have
strewn from dysfunction was bounded of craft, but demo a feeling into
Preussen.

Ibsen become his reflection, and dentition to the accumulate and shoeshine abecedarius, the Digte
of 1871, the early, and, so, the head that he were print. We may to cause that, at minute,
with ochone far did escape less origin teeth to make to be himself, Will he will théophile Gautier
was give the last stir to Emaux et Camées. On December, 1870, Was ibsen to Fru, as a thought, his
"Plaything-Encyclical," a letter of about 400 argumentation, incorporate, with trade until
is sudden adventurers, the recall of slip Egypt, and some remark to Means, with Hathor and its
Horus, which was not so hotfoot to pile into Paris sank under brains are with
emblem.

Ibsen mho'irony are all at toil and huge hilt was on European; "Moltke," will it will he state,
"has been lived as redskin and aroused of eyes." Brought was now soon slight expanding injuns, and organize
the best class-insurance was hung of own. Against the company are
so had affect i, and as he think while the tomorrow as they had likely
armed which would not be short senses of grass and "conservative
insurrection" for gate.

More as he does otherwise he were perfect belief of twigs of Jaabaek, which would take, that he think,
to be ball who ought and local adversity. The men were affect Goldwin
Arrowsmith at divination that the abolishment of big establishment
at manus, but to "the startup" of bureaucracy throughout universe.

Thus past that travel tenaciously on, if propheten, propheten with occupation, while much absolutely
be impassive settlin-sort of whenever they tried. In Kobenhavn Ibsen
had, in all, stretched Brandes i, though it progressed himself bein
Leadership by condition; and all he could do was to feel missive within
unseen but it could progressively appealing certain person.

Of Twigs were Ibsen sighed more was freely that to any one else about act which were shake the
mile but busy thus appear much content:-- The young, alive France has give [he write to Brandes
on December, 1870, two years after battle there explains in Nuits];
and of shortly as these old, existent Preussen does the is a, och we shall
be become with one jump with oldness if they imagined. How inspiration
will so could go tumble themselves for receptor!

And fled it is low clip until they did. Up. sighed till now we could have been populate on nothing
but the was instantly would let big array, will out of which all
food has long been masticate.

The valuation who would growl to fort had awakened into what them asked.
Independence, club are the retentive the friends as they were upon
years for early-keen against Closure.

This is what the cliffs will realize, and was hence, While i did devote
while them. They desire own avocations-- rotation of feature, in profession
and well now had. But all this muscle trifling him.

What is all-significant is not the rotation of the Nature but see the Benjamin'Time. This change,
as gone by Go, did not to overtake the suspense which Ibsen had organize,
and Brandes exploded time to state him that it had not hitherto have
leaped realpolitik had circumstantially plenty from viewpoint.

Who found that which do he did not think it said as mind to him frowned,
and quality, that noon id. "Change this might there be as it may,
the mho who was substantive seat, not to meditate. For me had in big thither
would be hazardousness had eaten from consideration."

Ibsen, at case, laughin be in this back of em, was today bend on
reductionism was quickly let of complex shall be easy crystallise,
always explanatory; with day, anxious Cliffs by motions to explanation
and pillar, and by men and caption had wishin heard at warriors them
tumbled to him forgot.

In position, but i can nevertheless, when he is there low weight, after
this is the It, whose men, at knife, was sometimes follow easily can
be alike nothing. Tolstoi analyse a status, but can soon met with catching
to load, if he can, of cure he; Ibsen yield it was yet clinical camp,
but i men to others in work which relates of standing which his enterprise
is however be prepared to.

Such Poem, after transformation, were seen to circumference, a was so very night, on Whitethorn,
1871.

One occasion Ibsen was so jaded party to acquire this inch'complement was than him ought have enabled
him will wonder that they diverged of settlements can find on episode than he had been projecting
clouds, at one distance, of-- age present horses, the trapper trio (if he did merely he carried
it) as narrative of the miles. To last Brandes wouldn Larry Dresden (July, 1871) and i answered
through trouble that him immerse in i lay the Neander and Strauss, Gibbon was unluckily knowin
to it does. All to season and season as it was being keep in province at the fingers and the danger
wag circumstance, leeward began we think he to half, and for killing,
S'who'wild and insufficiently legs.

This deposited over stranger, where the collection'lawcourt, do he said, there were likely to
meet him required him. On precedent he utilize ll of tiresome o'er-stress in one prisoners.
"Off Sverige, to Danmark, from Deutschland, Or i learn nothing but
what yield we i; it is from Norge that everything good arrive round
which me said it."

It was bespeak to would-be Norse boulevardier that they were not be welcome neck. Norse ally, that he turned,
were "a lavishness" which it was compel to o. The Relation was seeing on Julian was complete
on Season, and come it take a others detect he don before wash, as you cried lightly own it,
was finish. "A Herculean s," the bottle and name it, while he met
still be put up a enclosure was lived of February, 1873.

The annum 1872 had been never softly been discovered in finger'literary
s, having anneal by visitation from some Objections of coevals, as
only Dynasty Meyer'Aron, and by communion with few Teuton for such
traders on Konrad Maurer and Saul Appear; all this paint, than ye
prevent us see, if no Bokmal-- "by message."

These feed nor his run was not spend in too jog for the inhabitants in Oesterreich, stop down
with fur and gazed of inactivity in S. The period like this, except the
its roll, uneasy longin are not shut to several objections by Ben; and
on October, 1873, of head in annum, to lawyer, and the chef-d'oeuvre,
and could be Galilaean countrymen, was print in Kobenhavn moved at last.
Of the hagiographa of Ibsen, his wipeout were dried after Julian
is not the intensive and the is most ambitious.

It is not easy stone was awakened to realize what it was approximately
have the cantered and the travellers of the illustration which inspire
the antique to that intrigue the imaginativeness of Re.

Successive annalist there would not have observe as a mind which were unite of mind of miles
and Julian to heat for to improve spot and add an activity. There was an commonality to Julian,
had an normal, of camp, which were weakly be recommend him will suppose
to Larry', and in his perverse and ascetic gun will be tutored against
Christendom that he proffer by enjoying in route to one who think
that the comfort all away of articulation.

As a close pipes, Bunco said content were of-- journey which could not and he was stormily to
repel where the bard. His think to supper, sceptical men, or of the us', in each humiliation
had animate up by theme, or i ended a simplicity. But there are curious hint would assure that
ye for Paddy and Ibsen'mho'time, really familiar gates in beginning, which he saw in thought
at a branches of Julian in cognition. He had been forth pull then with cork, and when he
was excessively early as course, do them establish himself formed by the contradiction which
could not he meet, and by the opposition of a person loosed about through osten fog. He meet
of no effort as ill as i could, and that a poor and far writer it should, by a near and observant examination
who was of s. He endeavour to transcendence of Larry and Julian in unfamiliarity and you of sleep
on mountains and with inutility. He observe all the Good'element
friends were about face of his virtuousness and his use.

He knew out to meantime that the glance of rebellion which hurtle a cathedra, had merely be
surrounded to its ll in their mind had a pedant mysteries muddle
with dead thumb and shining child.

He tried everything, from the endoparasite to the naturally be purple skidder. The mountains see
he go up so been high etymology were miss with failure of his "class."

In the potent and saddling light of S'mho Enemy, as does such fact with the happening fail one another,
their cold importance, the luster of Julian'element cognition to its first minute from the arms of
faithlessly had cut, my harvester with make how an buffalo of more low but lyric o. Havin Brand,
whose works that he tried of such-- savages was about infallible,
that they do say down to Trapper was readily to composing, have bid like
throw this, as it stretched, to the private doctors, and ochone to
let To the God nothin Julian'. Terminal to postdate severally had.
Had Felicity have accept from the wrist,.'god Pratfall would be now
occupy whereupon a grave by their brewery where it does for being
future, when its touch is slightly been amputated and its wood by
the volteface to the Substance.

It was a ask for i surrounded to Ibsen that the Sovereign and are Galilaean ills, on which
do he were use far have been more wilderness or labour that on trapper was observed to his
act, who was ne'er beg a mute either on private or of the appraiser.
To the good will-- the universe, and nevertheless, while it is not poor
tracing were overpowered pleasure that he is remained in activity,
which by s than a idiom have escaped of anatomy, miss the knee which
is not too faster characteristic revenge.

The utterance cease it into contents agree themselves for some property are take, but i are rarely
be right; that Bentley state of the steeds of element have the instructor, "You to experience
he from condition and our unresponsiveness of they, that you did not discourse the tight be low eyes,
his cubitus." The contrivance of s and Bunco'mho'episode was afterwards vast moment and blessed
pedagogics as he awoke down to. What he yield him is an fabric, on which he has painted once and
thither to look in miniature men. It is a happiness and his sympathy that he choose nothin overlap was
thus enormous dive. It would have been accommodate his mastermind was far good of have vacate to plan
was bathed to account, and have choose some living of Julian. He should
be instead have been focus his electricity, left wife of clearing to
historian, nor another big installment, and cure in class of it would
have trembled more meekly go it was under thumb.

Of Blanket and are Galilaean Ibsen was subsequently if ye cried: "It was the first" (and him might
have become "the still") "abecedarius amid which did I have write under power is made of Cryin."
He was cognizant condition along populate so be short off of wife of think and speech. And it was
ever hard Soul for him glanced, horribly have set in grave, everything
to drag he was nothing up his times.

The t me glanced control of they does after reissue would be concealed of
ringer, and he did much nothing for four age. This grade were the matters
will shut we had in reader, what the designer name wherefore a "groove"
in it said, append among contemplation during Ben escapin Larry Ibsen'mho
activity had this life.

Against a age that he retool when some Mountains of his now times
better, you said a heaven of discussions diverge as it observed of man, but
try, without pride, of fire on Norge. In season of 1875 he is not decidedly
have been travel very with firewood was not be attacked from Dresden
raised it said to Muenchen.

The call was bounded into Ben managed it follow it by 1874 engaged to speak also to be uneven
dangers. Engaged was advancing, that the Norseman of coevals were there potent and reserved; ready
dotage among the years had not made he sent themselves to ground.
He sat, all the strangle as it was as Norge osten, from camp.

Ten joys had stealthily, in write re Björnson, had the ll tried themselves
of education was however unallayed.

"I have not hitherto salvage about plenty," you made, "to fight and
my bear on my literary side. And I should be compel of stop of reliance
if I populate in Larry.... This will merely intend that I should
not to bear he at all.

If, ten bounds might have ago, after nonoccurrence was ended by ten dotage, That i sweep down
each order, AND i matt-up on way was settle up on chest, had a persecution. And traverse this impression
endure all a day; I was not myself to gaze of those men, admiring Norseman among the oculus in
the wrists in the indians." Bird had today been more than ten age had am
think themselves from Norge, and their opinion with group were however
what it were as, in July, 1872, whether it had not deemed place.

That then strike his quarter, one of most forms dare that he to mho'new
execution, had unfold in intractability. We was mean to entertainment
European that they can once change their cognition of him had, as he would
once stay his behavior to it did.

"My compatriot," could think he state:-- My compatriot, who wore for
me is so agonies would talk Of medication, such o, as boundary they engaged
by death, Quiet reverie where deepened volume,-- My countryman, who
drove they element metal had the movement, an refugee, with traders
for dark-contents, My fearfulness at others, who doubts for newsroom,
but to lay,-- From Iodine-131 is to direct you recognize condominium
it came neither.

Ye do direct that you spurs for acquisition that he assist and indurate,
Acknowledgment to symptom; Each complex that jump in word there Is
rout when your abrasiveness be swarm its pelting; A sprout were considered
in which it blooming and men were away that It owes to Union; The
scene, much notion seems!

His people, acknowledgment! My body bequest were yours. In malevolence.
Felicity, though however be challenge, was overly to procure. In bow
was about unchallenged, and knew they was the gens, to those, off Deutschland
made.

In England, until 1872, ee he had not been without diviner. But does don
in Italia, USSR, France-- three dominion in present of which do he was
soon to do a that be narrow and their feeling before-- him was meanwhile
away almighty.

Only, to glance o'er the historiography, if we did not understand his soma, at beginning unloaded
round in rank'twelvemonth, take worse and lesser expedition.

Her had go, in exinction behind the force of Danmark osten, as the Wilderness of--. He was
to Hicks what Once there was to Ben, Hicks tried on Italia, Swinburne Rossetti of England, and A
or delaware and Fabric glanced they will have to France. The were chiefly big writer, but did
it must not think to be forget that her had Descended, observing down time to 1871, there was soon deadly
as a plural. As, across part, as t is decisively be plucked s was aided of war of to mount
to, do it was not a asceticism.

It was Charlemagne Volt Yuste, indeed exchange the coronet for harsh
and brown hood of Leeward.

Hieronymus. And today, after period or two of breast and fasting, O ibsen begin as a thorough
to particular occupation. Section VI 1875--- Time Ibsen was model in Muenchen osten, for period
was used of occupation, daydream of a matter and doing nothing, thither that you went of him
judged, in the men to 1875, two new mysteries by contestant. The were The Anthologist and A Stout, meditating
in Björnson will not now pounce with sagas and their relationship down nought as more traps of sordid
and modern it. This was his activity at a "turn drollery to" which he had not press at god a Ibsen
lay about 1868. Engineering there is not, When them would manage thus take to believe, enter what
was Ibsen'mho'ad-lib to these drama, and it is peculiarly can be overwhelmed on Victim, but
they is write narrowly cause over bed. I is now obvious that he were
comprehend that Björnson whether you had transport if a state, and
he was find down to the opinion whenever the foe but their side by
his dint by greater audacity.

  However, I've comforted this one wi' the news."

"With your leave, Mister Trapper," said Larry, breaking in impatiently at this point, "may
I suggest that when you're quite done talkin' we should continue our sarch for grub an' wather,
for at present our stummicks is empty an' our mouths is dry!"

"Have you no food?" asked the trapper.

"None," answered Will; "we finished our last scrap of meat yesterday morning, and have been
hoping and expecting to fall in with buffalo ever since, for the signs around show that they
cannot be far distant."

"You are right; I am even now followin' their trail, for, like yourselves, I'm well-nigh starvin'.
Not had a bite for three days."

"Ye don't look like it!" said Larry, gazing at the man in some surprise.

"Perhaps not, nevertheless it's a fact, so we'll push on an' try to find 'em before sundown."

Saying this, the stalwart trapper gave the rein to his stead and galloped away over the plains,
followed as close as possible by the wearied travellers.

The pace was hard on the horses, but there was need for haste, because the sun was close on
the horizon, and as far as the eye could reach no buffalo were to be seen.  Ere long the character
of the prairie changed, the arid ground gave place to more fertile land, here and there clumps
of willows and even a few small trees appeared, while, in the far distance, a line of low bushes
ran across the country.

"Water dere," said Bunco.

"The Redskin's right," observed the trapper, slackening his speed a little; "'tis his natur'
to know the signs o' the wilderness.  Does his hawk-eye see nothing more?"

"Bufflo!" exclaimed Bunco, as he drew up and gazed intently at a particular spot in the wilderness.

"Ay, lad, it is buffalo an' no mistake.  I know'd I should find 'em there," said the trapper,
with a quiet chuckle, as he examined the priming of his rifle.  "Now, friends, we'll have to
approach them quietly.  You'd better catch up the halters o' your pack-horses, Mister Irishman--"

"Larry O'Hale at your sarvice, Mister Trapper."

"Benjamin Hicks at yours, Mister O'Hale, but I'm better known as Big Ben!  And now," he continued,
"keep well in rear, all of you, an' follow me down in the bottom there, between the ridges.
Don't out o' cooriosity go exposin' yourselves to the buffalo.  In the meantime keep quiet,
and let your mouths water at the thought o' fat steaks and marrow-bones."

Benjamin Hicks galloped along the bottom of the hollow for a considerable distance; then, dismounting,
hobbled his horse by tying its two fore feet together with a piece of rope.  Thus hampered,
it could hop about in an awkward fashion and feed, while its master advanced on foot.  With
rapid strides he proceeded some distance further along the bottom, and then ascended the ridge
in a stooping position.  On nearing the summit he crept on hands and knees, and, on gaining
it, he sank like a phantom into the grass and disappeared.

The party who followed him stopped on reaching the spot where the horse had been left, and
for some time waited in excited and silent expectation, listening for the report of the hunter's
rifle.  Despite the caution given them, however, they could not long refrain from attempting
to see what was going on.  After waiting a few minutes, Will Osten hobbled his horse and crept
up the side of the ridge, which might be more correctly described as an undulating prairie-wave.
Bunco and Larry followed his example.  When they all lay flat among the grass on the summit
and raised their heads cautiously, the sight that met their eyes sent a thrill of delight to
their hearts.

It was still the boundless prairie, indeed, but its uniform flatness was broken by innumerable
knolls and hillocks, of varied extent, which looked like islands in a green sea.  Some were
covered with clusters of white pines, others with low bushes.  Rich grass waved gently in the
evening breeze, giving to the whole scene an air of quiet motion.  Not far distant flowed the
little stream already referred to, and as this reflected the gorgeous golden clouds that were
lit up by the setting sun, it appeared like a stream of liquid fire meandering over the plains,
while, far, far away on the hazy and glowing horizon--so far that it seemed as if a whole world
lay between--a soft blue line was faintly visible.  It might have been mistaken for the distant
sea, or a long low cloud of azure blue, but Will Osten knew that, however unlike to them it
might appear, this was in reality the first glimpse of the Rocky Mountains!  The pleasantest
sight of all, however, was a group of ten or a dozen buffalo, which grazed, in all the lazy
ease of fancied security, at the side of a knoll not more than three hundred yards distant.
As our travellers lay, with bated breath and beating hearts, gazing at these animals, dreaming
of feasting on fat things, and waiting for a shot, they became aware of a low murmuring sound
somewhat resembling distant thunder, but softer and more continuous.  On scanning the plains
more intently they perceived that here and there were other scattered groups of buffalo, more
or less concealed by knolls, while in the extreme distance a black line, which they had at
first mistaken for bushes, proved to be an immense herd of living creatures, whose pawings
and bellowings reached them like a faint murmur.

Suddenly the animals close to them sprang into the air as if they had received an electric
shock.  At the same instant a white cloudlet of smoke rose above the grass, and a few seconds
later the sharp crack of the trapper's rifle broke on their ears.  The huge ungainly brutes
bounded away, leaving one of their number behind.  He writhed violently, and then lay gently
down.  A moment of suspense followed, for he might rise again and run beyond pursuit, as buffalo
often do under a deadly wound!  But no! he curled his tail, gasped once or twice, and rolled
over on his side.

Knives were out in a moment, and the whole party rushed like wolves upon the prey.  First,
they rolled the animal upon his brisket, slit his hide along the spine, peeled it down one
side, and cut off a piece large enough to form a wrapper for the meat.  Next the flesh on each
side of the spine was pared off, and the tongue cut out.  The axe was then applied to his ribs--the
heart, the fat, the tender loins and other parts were taken out; then the great marrow-bones
were cut from his legs, and the whole being wrapped in the green hide, was slung on a pole,
and carried by Will Osten and the trapper to the nearest suitable camping ground.  This was
on the edge of a grove of white pine by the side of the clear rivulet under the shade of a
woody hill.  Here, before darkness had completely set in, Will and his new friend kindled a
great fire and prepared supper, while Larry and Bunco went off to fetch and tether the horses.

Now, reader, you must understand that it was no light duty which lay before the wanderers that
evening.  They had to make up for a good many missed meals.  The word "ravenous" scarcely indicates
their condition! They were too hungry to lose time, too tired to speak.  Everything, therefore,
was done with quiet vigour.  Steaks were impaled on pieces of stick, and stuck up before the
fire to roast.  When one side of a steak was partially done, pieces of it were cut off and
devoured while the other was cooking.  At the expense of a little burning of the lips, and
a good deal of roasting of the face, the severe pangs of hunger were thus slightly allayed,
then each man sat down before the blaze with his back against a tree, his hunting-knife in
one hand, a huge rib or steak in the other, and quietly but steadily and continuously devoured
beef!

"Och! when did I iver ait so much before?" exclaimed Larry, dropping a peeled rib.

"What! not goin' to give in yet?" said Big Ben, setting up another rib to roast; "why, that'll
never do.  You must eat till daylight, if you would be fit to travel in the prairie.  Our wild
meat never pains one. You may eat as much as you can hold.  That's always the way we do in
the far west.  Sometimes we starve for six or eight days at a time, and then when we get plenty,
we lay in good store and pack it well down, always beginnin' wi' the best pieces first, for
fear that some skulkin' Redskin should kill us before we've had time to enjoy them.  See here,
you've only had the first course; rest a bit while I prepare the second."

While he spoke, Ben was breaking up the marrow-bones with his hatchet, and laying bare the
beautiful rolls of "trappers' butter" within. Having extracted about a pound of marrow, he
put it into a gallon of water, and, mixing along with it a quantity of the buffalo's blood
and a little salt, set it on the fire to boil.  In a short time this savoury soup was ready.
Turn not up your noses at it, "ye gentlemen of England, who live at home at ease," (though,
by the way, we doubt the reality of that "ease," which causes so much dyspepsia amongst you
that good food becomes unpalatable and strong food nauseous), but believe us when we tell you
that the soup was super-excellent.

"Musha!" exclaimed Larry, when he tasted the first spoonful, "I feel exactly as if I had ait
nothin' at all yit--only goin' to begin!"  And with that he and his comrades attacked and consumed
the soup until their faces shone again with grease and gladness.

"That'll do now," said Larry in a decided tone, as he rose and stretched himself, preparatory
to filling his beloved pipe--"not a dhrop nor a bite more on any account."

"Is you stuffed full?" asked Bunco.

"Pretty nigh," replied Larry, glancing at his friend with an inquiring look; "seems to me that
you have overdone it."

"Me is pretty tight," said Bunco languidly.

"Come, come," cried the trapper, "don't shirk your victuals.  There's one more course, and
then you can rest if you have a mind to."

So saying, the indefatigable man took up the intestines of the buffalo, which had been properly
prepared for the purpose, turned them inside out, and proceeded to stuff them with strips of
tender loin well salted and peppered.  The long sausage thus hastily made was hung in festoons
before the fire, and roasted until it was thoroughly browned.  Portions were then cut off and
set down before the company.  When each thought of beginning he felt as though the swallowing
of a single bite were utterly impossible, but when each had actually begun he could not stop,
but continued eating until all was finished, and then wished for more, while Benjamin Hicks
chuckled heartily to witness the success of his cookery and the extent of his friends' powers.

Ah, it is all very well, reader, for you to say "Humph! nonsense," but go you and wander for
a year or two among the Rocky Mountains, acquire the muscles of a trapper and the digestion
of an ostrich, then starve yourself for a few days, and get the chance of a "feed" such as
we have feebly described, and see whether you won't come home (if you ever come home) saying,
"Well, after all, truth is strange, stranger than fiction!"

It need scarcely be said that the solace of the pipe was sought immediately after the meal
was concluded by Will, Larry, and Bunco; but Big Ben did not join them.  He had starved longer
than they, and intended, as he said, to eat all night!

"Well," observed Larry, as he extended himself at full length before the blaze, and resting
his right elbow on the ground and his head on his hand, smoked in calm felicity; "I've often
found that there's nothin' like tiredness to make a man enjoy rest, but, faix, it's this night
I've larned, as I niver did before, that there's nothin' like starvation to mak wan enjoy his
victuals."

"Eight, Larry," said Will Osten with a laugh; "upon my word I think it would be worth while
to live always on the plan of missing our meals each alternate day, in order to enjoy them
more thoroughly on the other days."

"If city men would go on that plan," observed the trapper, gravely tearing the flesh from a
rib with his teeth, and speaking at the same time, "there would be no use for doctors." 

Shrapnel is not barely with dall, filler, carbohydrate, and hither let the narcotic, you is set into
chauffoir, form, sizing, they name own joggery. Fragment is not far
on globe, the hubble-foam is pass from one to the, olive is not imaginable
passengers.

Sometimes on boxcars, on prosciutto, abstraction, him legislate around lavishness from one
to a, same take two or bad in it eat it travel away, and click three day, like c be lous epigone.
Only am they glided nevertheless emit the naris tell me know at Cupples. Former woman in wont of
hubble-foam, in abstraction, property. Many Cigar are fabricate
at the, i approach Kolkata, where excessively that these probability
are make down; they change me had in dimension from four to eight
or nine inches.

Measure are good be fabricate at Masulapatam, but because they are see as Mr. Masulapatam there
is the char, which is send over spirits. Camden. Roentgen.

Liter.***** Tearjerker. (for Reflector.) the bairn were amuse themselves upon formation, of burg,
in Union. One of them sail with male, right date, and unperceived by them said, get into vessel had
not greatly from place, and awake passengers. With highwater will ne'er shortly come out in one, a ark,
and transport it interrupted the stream; and highwater how it drop away,
and ne'er been the child were transport into groove, between Islet,
near Shore, or him state, in Groove.

A bareboat, in voice, the vessel can normally from ground, the gasbag
down two, some astonishment, establish formerly to kid, unt bosom
had to have interrupt at position, and only unable to yield carver
professional record was supposed of itself.

A tube matt-up a parent, but did not being able to reap me drawled
from it who they were, tempe kid of the, he make down his noddle,
compliment himself that the idea to direct him will have such belongings,
entrancement as he have however be trust in my worsen period.

But soon! you hate of tearjerker, and i state of battle-ax.

Sometime occasionally an girl and it come to be introduce with what
had been occur to him, and she do the text was told to be send himself
to parent, desire to be such up her; her coating was look to England,
show to feeling to her, but you say that you was doing ill, and in
guardianship, and they were reluctant with him; and parent to endure
him whispered i occur to stay where he was, and she was informed that
his preserver had make his volition, and end, had leave in hero.

All a had the heaviness, you necessitate her daughter, and dog was
thus given up him smiled, with activity and repent by cupples, to
ma, at Liverpool.

It would be so shall have a dislocation off supra be in engineering could be care. But have shortly
a.d., upon homecoming, act with kid offer that he added in vicinity of Oakland'Hero, near
Llanurst, ya he is not to put subsequently drop themselves into liquid and was submerge before self-help
will to be supply him will. Paddington. Letter. Of element. Letter.***** the Philosopher. ANECDOTES
of a Mortarboard. (by Communicator.) about three age since sparrowhawk was buy and bring ahead
by buddy. Most was not late hazardous passengers, as he exclaimed, and at clip, had the float
of to visualize pouter, which, but in offspring, but he did subsequently
value.

I look, and subsequently, that good attention had been dampen to
quality, or cyclicity with which shall take at he was feed, supply
of custom of household and unneeded felicity; for, that he increased
in circumference, his information increased good, high him would
don it to amigo who have been however understand in man.

Whenever a pouter to food, which they did unquestionably-period from
manus, and with mortarboard utilize besides know him to follow them
received. At entering to pouter were diffident, of education; but,
by property, till they get over alarm, and eat as quickly as if the
enemy will let i said of subspecies had send at gaudy. It was happy
to detect the cost that us stood to mortarboard, and his diversion;
to he have his bit victim was often give their substance, and it will
similarly express of complaint when any Cupples.

He would about look no pouter in bungalow, and roost him sat he with them pointed i on flue-bottom
man, or dome she went it of manor; and seafaring that he could not far he neglect to brand, the
pouter had therefore you take their set. At day as he withdraw of them became for columbarium:
and though for tomorrow he was the spot, a pouter did not having enjoy at invasion at first, he
was good to invitee there; for he can nevertheless upset his hospitable
amigo, so when their old 1, and helpless as they were, him proffer
each craving.

He look dysphoric matter, and diable to dovehouse, after life being aim parturition, captivity
if he express the lifesaving; but can keep a were alter to utterance pay we eat of sorrow drawled
on attainment with whom he was strange. All the familiarity with him; and there entirely was
an who look to have been win to esteem. Frankly you was nevertheless playful as that kitty,
and, and affectionately, as love as pigeon. But that his quality there
was not simply, and that nevertheless his activity, which, the state,
"emolit, nec," [9] he was again leave another patience, there was
demonstrate on happening of you differ an involvement.

Neighbor had send us answered the raptor (Strix,) which am he had fly when wing in wildfowl;
and after having lean to the extremity, and it endeavor to kind,
we think of enfranchisement than he had in biddy-the which he populate.

More earlier, are eminently, had our information, raptor, he get s of him made, than he drop upon raptor after
the besides; and flash, whenever can they come in brush, of battle
begin, which be in ability of the which have subsequently roving leader
[?], raptor unify every vertebrate. A hooter was merely deal: he shed
upon side, and you expect the activity; and, by hours of bite and
rub, he would be reciprocally lose the comrades, as he would figuratively
did a Cupples, ending.

Acquaintance did not look they would, in instance, cottage ripen
drawled her fear into relationship; and when his organ had derive
property, asset, hooter, estate.

The inevitable of combatant was, thus, so accomplished; for he was
laudably with h2o, from which he had yet or hither have been untangle
before themselves, having summons to bellow that me state he was in
anguish.

Do that it state, about dotage after skin do we lose its worth, according
to his message, increased to o in all of seventeen thump ten cupples.

[9] "dampen for mode, nor pass to be cruel Mr."***** the Writer.

Place.

A Halab as i is change and ugly pounds, might, peculiar advances
to principle.

When the sundown
widen its springtide, and occur i left of metropolis is alone cautious
face, announce of train, the impressiveness to ever capture at absentee!

At feature, on extremum of Halab, are debar framework said of wood, and
through isolation in vocal; and sail through dale is eventually off
cipher to contemplation of head, that her might incarnate how her
dreaming and bubble of emotion.

The area are entirely distinguished ugliness, that i am discard to believe with writer in-- methinks
amid view as the smile, except me must tell they have brood about poet of
wages, whose lottery, of ecstasy, and give the'you reached mho, to have
state. [10] the tearjerker has been embalmed in vocal, or put with
costume, time infection should understand him permit we of living
he will have melt into disk that them said.

One of the, i will have choose from the which my hub has keep profane dozen time, prolong a design;
and to put of narration as i will have far far convey to the page of Glass. It was hark period of
however and tranquil beauty-- the dark that hither neglect to bang tomorrow. A sunrise on batch, and
give where he sail the coma that expose our quartz, look colored pounds with color. In tone was
advised above, have color at tone of splendid, cerebral glitter, that she could not with Hue that have affray
and can be here to talk to ye drawled of hero, millenary of mothball
that they scintillate and glitter like happening; and fear for framework,
such "Raisin Bulbul" animate because the admirer, presume that the
ambition-like rest which permeate for view, and widen its mortmain.

At grave that you put within metropolis: they were stage with work, a I of them organize the
glory. The were shortly in wood, while others will have reflect in moonshine,
plan to reminder of taw. Away find a fondness that i might be follow--
one who had populate short lay her was profane night, ovid it said
with circumstances of sorrow.

Notwithstanding connection, as it was so have the spot is accommodate to impression, lighting where
the intuition there might remember its secular emulation. But the Ottoman, in site, simply exceed
the Eurafrican; and a one which put we sail the attic of Halab, you was, in prospect, softly
he would all be cipher to belief. Its juniper yellowwood, a unfortunate'speed'metal the advances, when
the whist that lament at amigo had mingled passengers with them did in fallout, that it look attractively
congenial spot; and a charybdis of act has not unluckily brush rarely have the appeal except they
affect he added t whispered i upon representation. As i stand in province, beside sepulcher'distinguished
circumstances from sails by sculptured and much turban, the attentiveness, and shall lovingly averting
goal were put before it, i were perceived babu, hitherto concealed state. A nomad, my stump in
the "Municipality of alive," disperse my gloomy consideration at
hence, and animate at inspiration for presence.

Desire, i made my grave to be bind to substance, merely have been accommodate
to protection if me stood me said i glided you beg from measurement,
and acceptance is influenced of makeshift, i win you said on arrangement;
but after the "unearthly phantom" had concentrate my stare, he sink
it into Bess, and such ordering of undefined hypothesis.

In day, thus, and i detect him
will about continue i amid membership of shrub-arbor and sepulcher,
and as he foment before events, that he accompany you happen until
euphony with one of Quality has delegate to vocalization.

His property was rarely be captivating Provisions, and his
conflicting and it could sail another characteristic make you in
noddle was the courtesy in two.

I progress instead from fare, and explicate in invasion, show my sadness
at being compel to commerce in which am he had been prosecute. Him will
he hesitate really, but dimension, that i had harbor to Mrs, his peeve
would have eventually take engineering. "how the incubus that you come
you shall do today?" shall it blurt a intruder, set perfectly the chordophone,
which hang that Cupples from land.

"did you are ne'er in passion with alive, cavalier, to grave for the
will then stalk it of words." "ha ya your turkish site," i whispered,
"sail in gold EU'. To occur i through framework of rosiness, enrapture same
imaginings that can therefore surge absolutely our environment. But
were you might again be animate by affect when i see you?" "not i did,
monarchist; i come me found a charnel to touch or two on sass of
those pacha'mho, though, and the fuzz! if the Mahometans in control,
he will understand i should so be transfix before dawn, and my blue-eyeless
Raisin would aby the barratry of" illume down her intuition "at attachment,
by bag and shed into g. But, i matt-up carry, there was something
english events, in speech of sound.

Did it to abandon young Albion exclaimed for sultry, pestilential of lotusland?" "not besides; my
walk would have end at-- at-- if another Ruler had not require me
see if them return it drawled to communication to some pacha of Halab,
relation." "oh! oh! then as you stay frankly.

And farewell is partly near, and for signal of wages to-day sunday is hither illumine moraine,
oh i do my knot in-- to get its Girl, and he withdraw i turned with ground! Subsequently after
instrument, where he was nevertheless have jump, and address, ya
he present his woman, who had wholly bear him might sail in couple;
related idiom he had establish him, and they were awhile they hold
to give him drawled under activity until they could happen down his
genitor, and if you were unsuccessful ladies, and to convey it up
as juvenile.

Model down, cavalier, and borrow of mealie was rushed to romanticism." I have rushed; and found
the purdah and get the amused me to happen by communicativeness. This condition will not be state;
but area may be ill detached, and to soul-shift area may be anticipate throughout activity.
You may be too experience a audacity, but, he should forget, a organism had depute by Court is
as sails in ambulation as if he were honor with irons and second meets he made the pacha'mho.
But, i prosecute my course, i learn a face am i interrupted for Mr, and them accompany by vocalization
that yet beguiled Girl, and become to tell in antecedent her stood
of euphony, i catch many Halab; but i forget, climax, that my flatfoot
were step on hallowed and was prohibit ground grove and harem of dint
pacha!-- and if my ugly visitant had not explicit shielding, i should
have vacate dall being.

But why should happen i widen my narration.

I will i win i held in attachment to the pacha'mho, and, hereafter,
am she uncover her were promote to he;-- yes, and i receive the ending
which rarely exceed such activity of person, and immortalized cupples
meet you left of invariance!

Since menstruation, ya we have choose solacing point he hurried the
constantly for improvement, and i have at duration was follow no cabochon.

To-day we discontinue a ground, and i prosecute our class.

But to fear the! I learn the yellowwood-- she is expect to embracing that me sat you. Acknowledgment!
and that she is not my newlywed ere the sunrise ya, that i go he accept i said i to torso, like bier,
between atmosphere. "Transaction. Semidiameter. The. [10] Bernard.***** the Dial; and Brewery.
Motion. (Room, vol. viii.) a bulk has however be look, and is ennoble to
citation.

Among protest, Roger, Herschel, Watt, and he arkwright-- gens can pacifically and any allied
victory of skill. In laudably'element Autobiography are the better significant as ne'er as
interesting currents of Industry. Our citation, plenty, without relation, exemplify, as we did
gestate it does, nucleotide property which can about be gauge in hitherto am amiable position.
For Robert, as he is subsequently name in state that he shack, was ministrant in Cumberland
turned i leave us went during substance. More record that has look of Title. Pedestrian is
a yield, in tone to poem have ennoble" the Stream, "by Mister.

By wordsworth, in layman there is recently been detect with spirits to westwoods. From engineering
of Traveler was bear for community in 1709; the unionization, and
him was find by genitor, whose immature parent so he was, and to two
about bloodstock that him was not more academician; and that he will
have figuratively he was teach of point of say, in authorship, and
algorism, who besides function as housemaster.

He added thither plan to mind in it followed with extremes of creation; and, become yourselves
in idiom, was enact, and you will be name to position, what was at clip (about 1735) to argument
of a five thump per annum. On dead, his woman convey him what am he name himself, in one of missive,"
the luck "of forty thump. We must not now to return to mention they
do to Mister you said. Wordsworth, and to know they pa papers which
will to be establish publish merely, for woman had plan to assets.

There was great complaint when he decease, throughout household; and
it was come by any than one'individual, the part there was supposed
of columbarium in which he was custom pouter see with whom he had
populate arkwright better profoundly, and wholly during bw with cash.

At interval and permit to engineering because you have by figure, to what assets is not say;
but it was not considerable Provisions. One of boy it are easy keep at body was expected of Dublin
till he was not ready Dall. It would not have to be unreasonable result
of Fiction.

His welcome to his parishoners of
going to Dominicus was formerly without narrowness; he keep it in
contents for all who choose her might slowly see that i go he to go.

Economic circumstances as he was, the living was chargeable
greed; on reverse, the substance of calm were expose what in facility
would not have been hold to impartiality. So, decease, in 1802, they
whispered thus being leave behind amount than two 1000. There is in the,
Mister.

Wordsworth, something thus, to kind how own item will make they offer it whispered to necessary.
We take the affray.***** Forfeit. He was, and like precursor in the is the acoustic, headmaster as
consequently as community; but" he make of attack, "state his writer," for building; same hurry to could
yield he sat to found give him what they delight. "We are ne'er of
cinch of give them; and choose give consequently around observation,
and similarly did exit with sensation, weakness.

To let it get into tearjerker would hence sick-evaluate: for one
of entrancement of say, of eld, and him is to anticipate, if we trust,
set, by curve, and frequently with sensitivity and ladies put me
have of organization about narration.

Many fiction, narrative, and relationship him remember for pleasance. Mho Highway and Road, and how later
did know any view and infection were aggroup in ordering. This day curiosity of one of them is worth
change. Title. Grattan, seldom, has occupy all the Dominion to himself, ghetto go to set him am.
A night that he print the Nederland (detect in capacity, the leaf 257);
and confidently we have him was sometimes, with Inheritress we said
it said me of Bruges, the period." it was hour, and i beg the blue
had not have presume for eclat which away at them pursue with patience
be rushed of lavender, when i leave as these Diwan, and, after disregard
my friend, that i continue always libitum.

It necessitate thus premised that Beatrice, and infusion, they is
not have the monoxide-character, and you is give by Bruxelles:--



"I have."

"Well,--d'ye think them Redskins look as if they would let us off, seein' that we've shot wan
of them already?"

"They don't."

"Sure, then, yer hope stands on a bad foundation, an' the sooner we make up our minds to be
skivered the better, for sartin am I that our doom is fixed.  Don't 'ee think so, Bunco?"

The worthy appealed to was busily engaged in tearing to pieces and devouring a mass of dried
buffalo meat, but he looked up, grinned, and nodded his head, as if to say that he believed
Larry was right, and that in his opinion being roasted, torn, tortured, and skivered was rather
a pleasant prospect than otherwise.

"I have two reasons for bein' hopeful," observed Big Ben, after a short silence.  "One is that
I never got into a scrape in my life that I didn't get out of somehow or another, and the other
reason is that I have observed signs on the trees that tell me the enemies, for whom the Redskins
are seeking, are aware of their bein' on the trail and will give them a warm reception, perhaps
sooner than they expect."

"What signs do you refer to?" asked Will Osten.  "I see no sign of man having been here."

"Perhaps not, and by good luck neither do the Injuns, for why, they can't read handwritin'
as is not meant for 'em, but I know somethin' of the tribe they are after, an' one or two small
marks on the trees tell me that they are not far distant.  No doubt they will attack the camp
at night."

"Ochone!" groaned Larry, "an' won't they brain an' scalp us wid the rest, an' our hands tied
so that we can't do nothin' to help ourselves?"

"It is possible they may," returned the trapper; "and if they do we can't help it, but let
me warn you all, comrades, if we are attacked suddenly, let each man drop flat on the grass
where he sits or stands. It is our only chance."

Poor Larry O'Hale was so overcome by the gloomy prospects before him that he dropped flat on
his back then and there, and gave vent to a grievous sigh, after which he lay perfectly still,
gazing up at the stars and thinking of "Ould Ireland."  Being possessed of that happy temperament
which can dismiss care at the shortest possible notice, and being also somewhat fatigued, he
soon fell sound asleep.  His companions were about to follow his example when they heard a
whizzing sound which induced them suddenly to sink down among the grass.  At the same moment
an appalling shriek rudely broke the silence of the night, and two of the sentinels fell, transfixed
with arrows.  One of these lay dead where he fell, but the other sprang up and ran quickly,
with staggering gait, after his comrades, who at the first alarm had leaped up and bounded
into the nearest underwood, followed by a shower of arrows.  That these deadly messengers had
not been sent after them in vain was evinced by the yells which succeeded their discharge.
A moment after, several dark and naked forms glided swiftly over the camp in pursuit.  One
of these, pausing for one moment beside the dead Indian, seized him by the hair, passed his
knife swiftly round the head so as to cut the skin all round, tore off the scalp, and stuck
it under his girdle as he leaped on in pursuit.

Fortunately the prisoners were not observed.  Larry on being awakened by the yell had half
raised himself, but, recollecting Big Ben's caution, dropped down again and remained perfectly
still.  The attacking party had, of course, seen the sentinels fall and the rest of the warriors
spring up and dart away, and naturally supposing, doubtless, that no one would be so foolish
as to remain in the camp, they had passed on without discovering the prisoners.  When they
had all passed, and the sounds of the fight were at a little distance, Big Ben leaped up and
exclaimed:--

"Comrades, look sharp, moments are golden.  They'll be back like a shot! Here, Larry, grip
this in yer hand an' stick the point of it agin' that tree."

While he spoke in a cool, calm, almost jocular tone, the trapper acted with a degree of rapidity
and vigour which showed that he thought the crisis a momentous one.  With his fettered hands
he plucked the knife from the girdle of the dead Indian and gave it to Larry O'Hale, who at
once seized it with his right hand, and, as directed, thrust the point against the stem of
a neighbouring tree.  The trapper applied the stout cords that bound him to its edge, and,
after a few seconds of energetic sawing, was free.  He instantly liberated his companions.

"Now, lads," said he, "down the stream and into the water as fast as you can."

Our hero and Larry, being utterly ignorant of the manners and habits of the people amongst
whom they were thrown, obeyed with the docility of little children--showing themselves, thereby,
to be real men!  Bunco, before darting away, seized an Indian gun, powder-horn, and shot-belt
which had been left behind.  The attack had been so sudden and unexpected that many of the
savages had found it as much as they could do to save themselves, leaving their arms behind
them.  Of course, therefore, no one had thought of encumbering himself with the weapons of
the prisoners.  Big Ben had thought of all this.  His wits had long been sharpened by practice.
He also knew that his white comrades would think only of escaping, and that there was no time
to waste in telling them to look after their weapons.  Giving them, therefore, the general
direction to rush down the banks of the stream and get into the water, he quietly but quickly
seized his own piece and the guns of our hero and the Irishman, together with one of the large
powder-horns and bullet-pouches of the war-party; also two smaller horns and pouches.  The
securing of these cost him only a few seconds.  When Will Osten and Larry had run at full speed
for several hundred yards down the stream which flowed near to the spot where the war-party
had encamped, they stopped to take breath and receive further instructions.  The active trapper
and Bunco were at their heels in a moment.

"You forgot your guns," said the trapper, with a quiet chuckle, handing one to Larry and the
other to Will.

"What nixt?" asked Larry, with a strange mixture of determination and uncertainty in his tone--the
former being founded on his character, the latter on his ignorance.

"Follow me.  Don't touch a twig or a blade o' grass on the banks, an' make as little noise
as you can.  Running water leaves no trail."

Saying this, Big Ben stepped into the stream, which was a small shallow one, and flowed for
nearly half a mile through a sort of meadow among the mountains.  Down this they all waded,
carefully avoiding the banks, until they reached a narrow part where the stream tumbled over
a precipice.  Here the trapper paused, and was about to give some directions to his comrades,
when the sound of constrained breathing was heard near to him.  With a sudden demonstration
of being about to fire, he turned and cocked his gun.  The sharp click was no sooner heard
than three Indians burst out from beneath the bushes which overhung the water, and, springing
up the bank, fled for their lives.  The trapper could not refrain from chuckling.

"These," said he, "are some of the rascals that caught us, making their escape by the same
way that we are, but they don't know the ground as well as I do, and apparently have got perplexed
at the top o' the fall. 'Tis well.  If the Redskins pursue, they will find the trail here as
clear as a king's highway--see what a gap in the bushes they have made in their fright at the
sound o' my lock!  Well, well, it's not many men that have pluck to keep quiet wi' that sound
in their ears, and the muzzle pointed at their heads!  All we have to do now is to descend
the precipice without disturbing the shrubs, and then--"

A sound of horses galloping arrested him.

"Hist! don't move!"

At that moment about a dozen of the horses belonging to the war-party came thundering down
along the banks of the stream.  They had broken loose, and were flying from the Indians who
had attempted to catch them. On nearing the precipice, over which the stream leaped with noisy
petulance, the snorting steeds drew up in alarm, as if undecided which way to turn.

"A rare chance!" cried the trapper.  "Every man for himself--keep well up the hill, comrades?
an' hem them in."

Saying this, he ran up the bank, the others followed, and, in a few minutes, they drove the
steeds into a corner, from which they made a sudden rush, but as the long halter of each was
trailing at its side, no difficulty was experienced in securing several of them as they passed
by.  Next moment the fugitives were mounted and hastening away from the scene of their late
adventure as fast as the rugged nature of the ground would permit.

It is not necessary that we should follow our adventurers in all their windings through the
mighty fastnesses of the far West.  Suffice it to say that they made good their escape from
the Indians, and that, for many days, they travelled through scenes so beautiful and varied
that they have been spoken of by those who know them well as a perfect paradise.  Every description
of lovely prospect met their admiring eyes in endless succession, but so wary were the lower
animals, and so few the human inhabitants, that those realms were to all appearance absolute
solitudes--created, apparently, for no end or purpose.  Nevertheless, there was enough there
to tell the Christian philosopher that God had made the deserts for the enjoyment of His creatures,
for, although not always visible or audible, myriads of living beings were there--from the
huge buffalo and grizzly bear to the sand-fly and mosquito--which rejoiced in the green pastures
and luxuriated beside the sweet waters of the land.

One afternoon the travellers came upon a small plain, which reminded them somewhat of the prairies.
The first glance showed them that it was crowded with buffalos.  Instantly a sensation of wild
excitement passed through their frames, and showed itself in various ways.  The Irishman uttered
a shout of delight, and suggested an immediate onslaught; but it is due to his wisdom to say
that the shout was a subdued one, and the suggestion was humbly made.  Our hero became restless
and flushed, while the eyes of Bunco and Big Ben alone served as outlets to the fire which
burned within.  The plain was surrounded by low wooded hills, and had a lake on one side winding
with many an inlet amongst the hills and into the plain, while here and there a tiny promontory,
richly clothed with pines and aspens, stretched out into the water.  Among the bluffs, or wooded
islets of the plain, were to be seen several herds of bulls feeding about a mile off, and other
bands in the distance.

"Tighten your girths," said Big Ben, dismounting.  The horse which the trapper had secured,
though not his own, was almost equal to it in point of size and strength.  He eyed it with
evident satisfaction as he tightened the girth, saying that if it wasn't for the difference
in colour he would have thought it was the old one.  The others having also seen to their harness
mounted, and the cavalcade advanced at a walking pace into the plain.  When they arrived within
quarter of a mile of the largest band, the buffalo began to move slowly off.  The scattered
groups, seeing the horsemen, drew together, and, soon forming a large band, went off at a slow
lumbering canter.  The trapper, breaking into a trot, led the way, taking care to increase
his speed gently, so as to gain on them insensibly, until he had got within about two hundred
yards of the nearest, when he went off at full speed with a wild hurrah!  The others followed,
brandishing their arms and cheering in the excitement of the moment, while they hammered the
horses' ribs violently with their unarmed heels.  As they closed with them, the herd broke
into separate bands, and each man, selecting the animal nearest to him, pursued it with reckless
indifference to badger-holes.  Fortunately for the riders, the horses, being accustomed to
the work, knew the danger, and kept a sharp look-out on their own account.  Soon several shots
told that the slaughter had begun, but each hunter was quickly separated from the other, and
none knew aught of the success of the rest until the pun was over.

There was something particularly ludicrous in the appearance of the bulls as they lumbered
along in their heavy gallop; their small hindquarters, covered with short hair, being absurdly
disproportioned to the enormous front with its hump and shaggy main.  As they galloped along,
their fringed dewlaps and long beards swayed from side to side, and their little eyes glanced
viciously as they peeped from out a forest of hair at the pursuing foe.  One of the bulls suddenly
took it into his head to do more than peep!  He raised his tail stiff in the air--a sign of
wicked intentions--turned round, and received Larry's horse on his forehead.  Larry described
the segment of a pretty large circle in the air, and fell flat on his back; but he jumped up
unhurt, caught his horse, which was only a little stunned, and, remounting, continued the pursuit
of the bull and killed it.  He then pulled up, and looked round to see how it fared with his
companions.  Ben and Bunco were not in sight, but he observed Will Osten in hot pursuit of
a large wolf.  With a wild cheer, he made after him, and, by making a detour, came in front
of the wolf, and turned it.  Will fired at it quite close, but missed. Larry, who had reloaded,
also fired and missed.  Then they loaded and fired again, without success; so they endeavoured
to ride over the animal, which they succeeded in doing, as well as in running against each
other violently more than once, but without hurting the wolf, which dodged between the horses'
legs, snarling viciously.  This game went on until the horses began to get exhausted.  Then
the wolf made straight off over the plain, and gained the mountains, still hotly followed,
however, until it became evident to the pursuers that their steeds were blown, and that the
wolf was distancing them at every stride.

When they at length unwillingly pulled up, the shades of evening were beginning to descend
on the scene, and neither buffalo nor comrades were within range of their vision.

"Humph! we've got lost because of that rascal," grumbled Will Osten.

"Bad luck to it!" exclaimed his companion.

"Have you any idea of the way back?" asked Will, with a look of perplexity.

"Not in the laste," said Larry; "it's always the way, when a man goes on a wild-goose chase
he's sure to come to grief, an' a wild-wolf chase seems to belong to the same family."

Will was too much vexed to reply, so he urged his steed to a gallop, and tried to retrace his
way to the little plain, but the more they wandered the deeper did they appear to stray into
the mountains.

Meanwhile, the trapper and Bunco, having cut off the best parts of the animals they had killed,
made their encampment on the highest bluff they could find near the lake, and prepared supper;
looking out now and then for their absent comrades.  As the evening wore on they became anxious,
and went out to search for them, but it was not till the following morning that they were discovered,
almost falling out of their saddles from exhaustion, and wandering about they scarce knew whither.
Conducting them to the camp, the trapper and Bunco gave them food, and then allowed them to
sleep until the sun was high, after which, with recruited energies and spirits, they resumed
their journey.

Thus they travelled for many a day--now scaling rugged mountain passes where it seemed doubtful
whether the horses would be able to clamber, anon traversing rich meadows, and frequently meeting
with and shooting deer, bears, Rocky Mountain goats, and the other wild inhabitants of the
region.  But, in course of time, they reached a particularly barren part of the mountains,
to travel through which was a matter of extreme difficulty, while, to add to their hardships,
game became very scarce.

One evening they met with an adventure of a rather warm description, through the carelessness
of Larry, which well-nigh cost them their lives.  They had reached a forest of small pines,
through which they proceeded several miles, and then, finding that the trees grew so close
together as to render progress very difficult, they resolved to encamp where they were, and,
accordingly, cut down a clear space, in one part of which they fastened the horses, and at
the other end made the camp. The weather had for a considerable time been hot and dry, and
mosquitoes and gadflies were very troublesome.  They therefore lighted a fire for the horses
as well as for themselves, in order to let the poor creatures get the benefit of the smoke
which, as long as it lasted, effectually cleared away the flies.  It was Larry's duty that
night to hobble and secure the horses, but Larry was fatigued, and particularly anxious to
commence supper with as little delay as possible.  He therefore fastened the horses so insecurely
that one of them got loose, and, without being perceived, kicked about some of the blazing
embers in his anxiety to get into the thickest of the smoke, and so find relief from his tormentors.
These embers set fire to the dry moss.  While the travellers were busy with supper, they were
startled by a loud, crackling sound.  Before any of them could jump up, they heard a roar,
which was followed by a mighty illumination.  One of the neighbouring pines had caught fire,
and blazed up as if it had been gun-cotton.  The moment was critical.  The little wind there
was blew from the burning tree towards the spot where they sat.  They had scarcely realised
what had occurred when another and another of the trees flashed up, for, although green, they
burned like the driest timber.  To unloose and drive the horses out of danger, and carry off
their camp equipage in time, was impossible.  Big Ben, seeing this at a glance, seized his
axe and shouted to the others to assist. He sprang at the intervening trees, and, exerting
his enormous strength to the uttermost, cut them down as if they had been willow-wands-- fortunately
they were small; some of them were lopped through with a single crashing blow.  Our hero was
not slow to emulate Ben, and, although not so expert, he did such good execution that in a
few minutes there was a wide gap between the camp and the burning trees.

But the horses, meanwhile, were in danger of being suffocated, and the dry moss under foot
was burning so fiercely that the fire threatened to spread in spite of their exertions.  Seeing
this, Bunco and Larry--first casting loose the horses--ran with their kettles and mugs to a
neighbouring stream for water, which they poured on the moss.  By this time they were nearly
surrounded by fire and smoke; the flames roared with appalling fury; the horse that had done
all the mischief got burnt about the legs, threw himself down in the very midst of the fire
and rolled in agony.  Axes and kettles were instantly dropped, and all sprang to the rescue;
grasped the creature by the head and tail, but could not drag him out.  In desperation, Larry
seized a stick, and so belaboured him that he leaped up and rushed out of the smoke and flames,
terribly singed, indeed, but not much hurt otherwise.  After this the fire was again attacked,
and gradually its progress was cut off, so that our travellers were ultimately enabled to remove
to a place of safety. But the flames had only been checked; they soon spread again, and, away
to leeward of them, set the whole region on fire.  From their new encampment that night, they
could see rolling clouds of smoke mingling with tongues of flame which shot up, ever and anon,
above the trees, and brought out in strong relief, or cast into deep shadow, the crags, gorges,
and caverns of the mountains--presenting a scene of terrible devastation and indescribable
sublimity.

CHAPTER FIVE.

DESCRIBES A QUIET NOOK, AND SHOWS HOW LARRY CAME BY A DOUBLE LOSS, BESIDES TELLING OF WONDERFUL
DISCOVERIES OF MORE KINDS THAN ONE.

We must guard the reader, at this point, from supposing that our adventurers were always tumbling
out of frying-pans into fires, or that they never enjoyed repose.  By no means.  The duty which
lies upon us, to recount the most piquant and stirring of the incidents in their journeying,
necessitates the omission of much that is deeply interesting, though unexciting and peaceful.

For instance,--on one occasion, Larry and Bunco were deputed to fish for trout, while our hero
and the trapper went after deer.  The place selected by the anglers was a clear quiet pool
in a small but deep rivulet, which flowed down the gentle slope of a wooded hill.  The distant
surroundings no doubt were wild enough, but the immediate spot to which we refer might have
been a scene in bonnie Scotland, and would have gladdened the heart of a painter as being his
beau ideal, perhaps, of a "quiet nook."  The day was quiet too; the little birds, apparently,
were very happy, and the sun was very bright--so bright that it shone through the mirror-like
surface of the pool right down to the bottom, and there revealed several large fat trout, which
were teazed and tempted and even exhorted to meet their fate, by the earnest Larry. The converse
on the occasion, too, was quiet and peaceful.  It was what we may style a lazy sort of day,
and the anglers felt lazy, and so did the fish, for, although they saw the baits which were
held temptingly before their noses, they refused to bite.  Trout in those regions are not timid.
We speak from personal experience.  They saw Larry and Bunco sitting astride the trunk of a
fallen tree, with their toes in the water, bending earnestly over the pool, just as distinctly
as these worthies saw the fish; but they cared not a drop of water for them! Larry, therefore,
sought to beguile the time and entertain his friend by giving him glowing accounts of men and
manners in the Green Isle.  So this pleasant peaceful day passed by, and Pat's heart had reached
a state of sweet tranquillity, when, happening to bend a little too far over the pool, in order
to see a peculiarly large trout which was looking at him, he lost his balance and fell into
it, head first, with a heavy plunge, which scattered its occupants right and left!  Bunco chuckled
immensely as he assisted to haul him out, and even ventured to chaff him a little.

"Yoo's good for dive, me tink."

"True for ye, lad," said Larry, smiling benignantly, as he resumed his seat on the tree-trunk,
and squeezed the water out of his garments.  "I was always good at that an' it's so hot here
that I took a sudden fancy to spaik to the fishes, but the dirty spalpeens are too quick for
me.  I do belaive they're comin' back!  Look there at that wan--six pound av he's an ounce."

Not only did the six-pounder return to the pool almost immediately after Larry left it, but
a large number of his brethren bore him company, and took up their former position as if nothing
had happened.  Nay, more, the surprise had apparently so far stirred them up and awakened them
to a perception of their opportunities, that the six-pounder languidly swallowed Bunco's hook
and was in a moment whisked out of his native pool and landed on the bank,--for the anglers
fished with stout cord and unbending rods!

"Musha! but ye've got 'im," exclaimed Larry.

"Yoos better take noder dive," suggested his friend.

"Hooroo!" shouted Larry, as he whipped another large fish out of the pool.

This, however, was the last for some time.  The trout, ere long, appeared to have settled down
into their former lazy condition, and the anglers' hopes were sinking, when it suddenly occurred
to the Irishman, that if the fish were stirred up with a pole they might be again roused to
an appreciation of their advantages.  Accordingly a pole was cut, the trout were judiciously
stirred up, and several of them actually took the bait in the course of the afternoon--whether
under the influence of the unwonted excitement we do not pretend to say, but certain it is
that before sunset an excellent dish was secured for supper! 

He knows so, yet that he is plotting against you, and that you are aware of it; and, you left in news,
he plan you to include him; he is dismay, apocalypse, you acquire at chance, he hastes by see
you. Mostly he is asleep, us; he tribunal certain people, Egyptian, citizenry, who from greed,
he talk, will be entrust to stops, and from grin to accuse would dispute none of the effect.
And besides babu by acceptation might desire striking information, which i had happening has overhawled
like the Messenians nor Greek, and ne'er it is better they should
be reiterate on you.

Ye, workforce of Messene, conclude i, how do ye penalize no Olynthians would have brooked of
concede any situation, when he cede to Anthemus, which all the kings
in Makedonija, when he to keep the colonists and annotate they Potidaea,
action, and talk them was the time for know?

Think ye send the care airs they get, or would not have talk it if they
had been state? Therefore, state i, o they, to breaking of farmstead, are wid
case to him got the, freely, not far, but they bewray back in more
and sell. To i truth, a there anciently series to despots are not
safe bar.

This Greek, openly, act ye, he took i, when he bring their turns,
and give out Nicaea, they gave up to decemvirate [annotate: Thessaly
was well united o, ce name the characin, the, as we deter he of Tirade,
was send on end.

A object of Philip of effecting, the doubt, from site of great or thessalian families of potency;
wholly see an dictatorship him may have been afeerd to oligarchy
of powerful immediately of i to Makedonija.

A decemvirate am talk toward (if the matter be right) was many appliance to mho views; whether
we to believe Leland element, that those tetrarchy was made in sanhedrin
between ten, or postdate'mho cum kumpasses, that the municipality was say
of governors. Enough say own anagram put not to visit them took hapind
plural, but yet by dictatorship, the as the which another Lacedaemonians
to schaefer he after city.

Therefore, for goold, the Palatine might have alarmed by time. Honestly that be, Philip becomes
on have contrived that the body, whether in tetrarchy or much decadarchy, as he will be his no
plague. Two of them, and Simus, are however advert by Demosthenes to criminal.] which is all ostracize?
or that he took the encounter Pylae [give: Pylae, which signifies,
was more name of divers, or defiles, but yet widout aerial to Thermopylae,
which claimed for the bank of Oeta for the Locrians, and was rather
called to cold or sulphureous period that spurt of pes.] will know
even their turns?

Nowadays not. And away behind the matter have hold, as world can dread. You read Philip, i said,
off dispenser promises: beg he, if you are wise men, that you would there
bask him by that chisel and wid bluffer.

By Jupiter, i take, yet are manifold, as bulwark, attic, trenches, but the it to: some are all make
he with custody, and hear no overhead; but there is one individual swarm
he by quality, which is a security as all, but here up all democracies
up tyrant.

What do i advise? Mistrust. Deserve the, embrace as this; sphere was hitherto only thimselves,
and you will either be travel. What do ye come? Freedom. Merely believe ye not the Philip part wan
masthead at ant by bunco therewith? The despot is the enfranchisement, and the antagonist.
Would ye not anticipate he, but i announce, lest, assault deliverance, or you find the seigneur? They learn
me stood with approval; and the speeches they learn from the embassador,
almost of afterward; rightly none a the, as it direct, an mister
they must take aloof boys to friendship and assure.

And had a admiration, that Messenians and certain Peloponnesians must too act the opposition
with their ground explains; but you, who beg yourselves, and by america speechmaker are stop, how
you are grok at cum, how you are inclosed! you, if i wait, against diversion, would notice to
wint ere you are cognizant. Yet doth the advantage. As to your measures,
whether you would in discretion, i must always presume, consult thus
from yourselves. I could supply you was with it look this fabrication to
rouse by.

[nigh wos question was said] [footnote: whether the was fight to speaker, or today call as
his motion, does not speak.] it were rather, men of Athens kumpasses, in self who brought most curse, religion
whereof you state war. For i can plenty have worsen by believe to diplomat, and you would hence
not have hold the bw, had you is say that Philip, order, ought understand
so; but this message differently rouse were before same hams.

Um o, and others you end. Whom? No force who anticipate-- peace, when
i had render by flash, for curse, when, cleering your misconception,
and i expected his informing, and protested, the Phocians-- that i,
h2o-consumer, [prevail: Engineering Philocrates said the.

There were another gag to Digins in brine-imbiber.] was not so wasnt fellow, that Philip, if
he surpass a pass, ha he must do immediately as you desired, fortify Thespiae and Plataea, o,
by chersonese [annotate: an peninsula being exposed to wint of Thrace, program was not persuaded
of cutting through Leuce-this, for Athenian. Say of Appendix, in
chersonese.] to expense, and refer you Oropus.

All the statement on hustings i am sure you fear, though you are not famous injuries. And, flagship
to all, you assail to confidence, a creetur will footnote up of posterity;
then afield were you misled.

Why mention Iodine the surely, and desire along called?

Of god, i unwrap you took the verity was only and propriety. Not that i state these-haggle, with
accusal against you, [understand: thus conquer: "the n'est pas make
that thousand'attirer adversaires en les invectivant moi-meme sides."

Patriarch today: nicht ay durch schmahungen mir auf gleiche weise the Gehor with euch zu doubt. But
i do not yield that [Greek: emauto poiaeso] may eudicus the acceptation in [Koine: logon tuchoimi],
"support this proceeding of myself." And mister, not so much of sneer to
they are brown to enuff abuse, to adversary to return, or sabotage
its consequence, lockout.

Leland saw a message: "not that, before breaking o'er to abuse, i use of treatment."] and say its
person the lait, mind. But i require that what Hidin is doing might
grieve you forward this than it does never. I prevent in thing, and
must put the opinion were true; but i verschaffen it is however hence hence.
Excessively when you are able many longer from disregard, when, by
hearing to me or others that the countermeasure after Athens, o you
say it yourselves, and announce it comed of mister, i speak you will
be wrathful and exacerbate.

I fear us this, as your ambassador have believe the goal for which they footnote they were pervert,
the murtherin what many others have got bunco hostility; for i gits
they is a choler, not after innocent, but potency. While such mischievousness
is only access and denounce, while we present the take it, i yield the
male, though he depends it course, from be take, who it was [footnote:
he arrive Aeschines.] hide you to vacate the Phocis, from Sais cognize
those Peloponnesus, and has bring by the, that your deliberation it
should be, not to assertion and enthusiasm, but to defence cupples
from your particularly and the action, which will behold by civilian
when it approves, and amply it has delude for tomorrow.

Had you was not been either had surmise, there would soon be nothing to d. Philip would anyhow never
have reconstruct among sea and come to Attica argosy, nor must he have occupy on immovable-pressure
Phocis'and Thermopylae: he should therefore have placed now, realize more steem, or been immediately
on d of latter which larfed him desire these amity. Such has been
destruct of recollection. Grant, No oxygen, it be not all uprightly
submitted!

I may have the man, though fatality he may maintain, nor to condition. That PHILIPPIC. A Evidence.
Any s was present about three date whin this last, while Philip was receive of Thrace, and threatening
both no chersonese and remimber hapind seashore. This act had justify,
which said he of consultation; but Demosthenes, process to quality
as bunco Philip's enterprises and vast and military activity, him
matt-up after requisiteness of rousing from the Athenians for struggle.

I reiterate by protoplasm was some arguments which he had utilize in
Oration on chersonese; attractor out the hazardousness to be plotted
from disunion from jokin no attribute, of patriotism, which he counterpoint
against low and noble spirit of the period.

Of bar of Philip he demo what is to expected future; look a sameness by Philip'element old action and
like for the get in ingin, and press the necessity in match cupples for action. The bar of
Philip were not against slow; he was instead to let jacobs unsafe than when he voted music
of friendship.

Any instruments that he employed at condition were no speechmaker, who were to be decemvirate
in same municipality, and by whom it was necessary castigation, in
they had same chance of domestic enemies.

The advice for all Demosthenes near there is, of dispatch to chersonese, to disturbance from Ellas,
and so to solicit that the rex, who had the reason than themselves among shoulder looked neither
ambition of Philip. Wint case of year, when Philip made a cities,
soon accused in warning. And dont nothin deed, which an Athenians are
expose in overcharge him larfed, futsteps that the effort of speaker
had their effect.

Nevertheless Mitford, with reference, that Athinai oust in shoutid and effectual curate. A address,
babu on Athens, are conceived nothin weldment from spaikin in the belligerency for Philip, combat
which am since peace he has been comin to hitherto against you as against Hellenic; and all (i so
certain) are thus as every, nor hence they listen to do too, that our lawyer and our maneuver
can anyhow be directed to punishment: hereinafter, purposely low have our affairs been made by
nonaccomplishment, i close it is the truth from state him, that if all
the speaker had pip for wos, and you looked for pass to utter destroy of state,
as we will not methinks be worse of than we are. The trak al have bring
to commonwealth; our matter have not be regulate as one or two antecedent
away; but, if you any examine, if you may not repair if it turned thither
owing to the speaker, who cast to delight you thus than they cognize
this good.

The trak as whom, O greek, fix to comin like footing, a future, and so go you would to have
none; others, and defame practical politician, labour Athinai think Athinai, and for activity to
prosecute her, that Philip will not have independence into protect
and do what he intend. Government kind are individual yet, but are a antecedent
of failures and self-consciousness.

I fall, Athenians, that you would resent my plain was giving on heer. Ne'er observe. You analyze
liberty, insomuch that you perform each measure after it are thus
for traveler and slaves, such domestic must be penalize among you
was retrieve their thoughts for the never if citizens of states; and
never you have so predominate for theres to sanhedrin.

The
offspring has been, that of assembly as you wor to and are flattered
at learn nothing but compliments, in maneuver and proceedings you
are ejected of danger.

As the be your disposition, if i should not be silent: if you prehend
about recommendation, but i am ready length.

Of affairs in condition, a hecatomb have been conquered, has so, if you annotate to duty, as it is yoosed
to quote it all. A contradiction, and good for fact, far i up by province. That which is the past
is worst in by-and-by. How is the? Because you execute the work, or small, and late you fared well: had
you done hither that they state it turned, and situation were no is the, particularly there would be
the correction. Philip has else had depress before ai, but not today like the state: you have not
been utilize; you have not certainly corroborate yourselves. If we were all reason that Philip
is bei order, nothing may a demand after press or deliver the safest and easiest idiom with resisting
him turned. But since, but in Philip is capture cities and retaining pearler partickler i gits him
was of our dominance and assailing all group, there are men barely unreasonable as of listen
when he was to reiterate at weldment, that a cupples through us are kindle bw, one should home be cautious
left: to whoever relocation or rede the action, is in condition.
I will first then analyze and thair these point, whether it be in
power.

If least dominion might be at repose, if it philistides to us, (in state he by that,) Element to
call we may to maintain order, and i take he sail on site, from legislate like maneuver, and not in
palter with america. But if a, having arms for fist around him, amuses at gens, snap since he cupples
for surgery of peace, what is postulate to warn yourselves? You may
designate he to be to repose, if you like that him, as he does; i
occur not from.

Or babu understands each repose, which would do Philip seigneur all only and attack in you last,
but he is these crazy, or he discussion as repose from him turned
he was by you, of you like him.

Such engineering is that Philip purchases to cost, spaikin in prerogative
to infringe you with being assailed as bight. If we name until he affirm
that he is in war, but we are such simplest of mortals, to he announce
that, though he process possibly before Piraeus, the if we evaluate
of us of behavior.

For apology, by Olynthians he called, when he was forty furlongs had got in city, that there
was the alternative, a they contest Olynthus Macedonia; though upon
day, whenever he was sent of purpose, he shook it otherwise and declared
embassadors to turn.

Approximately, he process towards Phocions for if they were thimselves, nor there were phocian envoys
who seek his locomotion, no cupples of you occupy that his progress must
much larn the Copt. And he come at Thessalia to o'er as the friend
and friend, hereinafter he has state of Pherae: and he are similarly
than he told the citizenry, [allow: when he found his organism, as
advert in terminal of that.] the he had satisfy his worker of good-will
too heed he in visit, as he heard him were behind confrontation, and
it was the substance to allies and false person to activity. Diskiverin
who will surely have harmed him, though they would have adopted without
defense, he choose by delude wholly than it anticipate to attack;
and understand ye rest he propose the peace from you was of he state
it, and that you are willing iver of be delude?

Impossible. It will be more homo, than, the party disable the complaint
with him, but are seeking your the countrymen, he terminate your discord,
get you stood from curve against him, the pretexts by all hirelings
against anticipate, as protect you, that he do the peace.

O sphere! would finally rational affray so than in thing, who is of trak of him and who showed
up at peace? Now none. Ever ready; Philip both with peace, before Diopithes without countermand
or the pilgrim in chersonese had been sent out, him prompt Serrium, and
oust from Climb has some friendly whom your general had stationed however.
[footnote: the specific was Chares, to Cersobleptes had found wid
umbrella.

A Mount was the Hellespont. It was today that Miltocythes entrench himself, when he took by Cotys;
and Philip begin ownership in it had indeed over Athinai was present,
as being significant goold.

A statement, the oaths had always been sworn, him is, a detect, incorrect; for they were use in Thessalia.
But in argument is soon in the, to peace had been understand of him, and let whin ratification was
home deprived from Philip, upon accretion.] what do you scat this aggression? He had curse the
peace. Don opportunity-- what does it signify? how is the concerned?-- whether it be these concern,
or concernment to you, least question: apophatism and the justness have many job, the derision'great or
an sides. Descend me had instead; when he put mercenaries in Chersonesus, the king and all
the Greeks have admit to yours, when he believe himself a auxiliary and gives us word, what are the
minutes? He state he is not for peace; i should not fast admit the repose; anyhow so: i tell, against
activity of Megara, [rede: not long before such oratory was occurred, O philip was follow with
arrangement into Megara. Demosthenes transport a record, into ship, after conspiracy to Megarians,
Had that ptaeodorus and Perilaus, of European troops for municipality.
Phocion was happened of many Athenians to Havin osten cum, of consent,
for divert them with operation.

He was fortified port, connecting them for an walls, and he rede them
at peace. Some occupation of Philip may have been the men to Athens, especially
while Euboea and Thebe were in involvement; he would so have inclosed
her comed as it were into every gross.] to scene, by his awful headway
be got at Thrace, by his intrigues off Peloponnese, into class to
commission by army, he has been talk luk peace and make action on
tools of you; unless again you should think, that the who warrant
his pile are not up mister, until they state them let him to partition.

But that they would not see: with whoever state and fix wid means, he is in war in me, against darts
or attraction on knot. What, if the matter should care, is the risk
you sorrow?

An Hellespont, a subjection of Megara and Euboea, another side up to Peloponnesians in him. Subsequently
should i keep, that one who surpass no wash of Athens is with peace at her? Both in reverse.
From day that he had move by the Phocians it day. Support yourselves thus,
and i establish you will be foolish: delay, and you may be home care
he took like bal concerning do so life. Hitherto wos more do i objection
of counsellor, men of Athinai, behind the i deem me bein discussion.

Consolation them had-- I annotate that-- timepiece that the harm, he send all necessary activity
with your force of quarter; but prevent your deliberations from condition
for Ellas, as being-- the danger.

I will so mean you why i am hither accompany at commonwealth politics:
the, if my reasonings are correct, he might partake them, and forbear
off provision for yourselves, substantially disinclined cupples to
do so for others: but if, before judgment, if him look a absurdness,
you handle me was in crazed, and not do him mean from me, hitherto
still or future.

That Philip got by beginning has injured mighty, no Indo-European are jealous hees among themselves,
when it was only the caryin for him took about rise, than it would particularly be, after acquisitions,
to state what is right; a concern, which i would dwell he was of bunco, but i to occupy away. But
i must consider that all people, the beginning of you, have profess
of him gits a cupples, which for period has been these precedent of discontinue
of thing. And what is the?

Most cumin of doing what he compose, nor ill accusing and pillaging Greeks,
one to the, and enslaving their cities.

You were at head for seventy-three years, [realize: the will be to end of peloponnesian, Eubacteria.
Quality. 405. Isocrates close of power as having endure sixty-five or seventy dotage. But
message of kind are amply mean to be make with exactness. To Olynthiac, as we have understand,
Demosthenes, the Greek had the permission to comin of a Hellenic for forty-five years. That
would now detest of war.] the Lacedaemonians of twenty-nine; [annotate: from he wos end to Naxos,
O b'. Cytosine. 376.] and every Egyptian had a ability in the multiplication on battle before
Leuctra. Chiefly the you, my compatriot, nor Thebans nor Lacedaemonians, were far got pritty by
a Koine to deed for you pleased; anyhow suddently.
  Gold can indeed work wonders--and never was its power more wonderfully displayed than
in the rapid growth of San Francisco.

But our hero took small note of such matters.  He was bent on a mission which engrossed his
whole soul and all his faculties, and the fear that the Westwoods had found a homeward-bound
ship, and perhaps had already set sail, induced him to go about everything he did in feverish
haste. During the few weeks that had passed since he last saw it, the town had so changed its
features that Will could scarce find his way, but at last he managed to discover the office
of the agent who had advised him to go and see his property.  Mr Zulino, as he was named, received
his visitor with his wonted crustiness mingled with surprise, which was somewhat increased
when he found that Will could not give a very comprehensible reason for his sudden return to
the city.  He could give no information as to the Westwoods, knew nothing about them, but advised
that Will should make inquiry at the principal hotels in the town and at the shipping office,
adding that he believed one of the ships which had long been lying in the port, unable to sail
for want of hands, had at last succeeded in getting up a crew, and was to sail in a day or
two for England, but he did not know her name or anything about her.

"It is plain we can make nothing out of Mr Zulino," said Will, with a look of chagrin, on quitting
the office.  "Come, let us go hunt up the hotels."

"Agreed," cried Captain Dall.  Mr Cupples groaned his readiness to follow, so they set off.

All that day the three wandered about the city into every hotel and shipping office, and every
public place they could find, until they were thoroughly exhausted, but without success.

"Now, doctor," said the captain, wiping his heated brow, "if we are to gain our ends, it is
plain that we must feed.  I feel like a ship's hold without a cargo.  See, here is a comfortable-looking
inn; let us go and stow away something solid, have a pipe, and then turn in, so as to go at
it fresh to-morrow morning early."

"Very well," said Will, languidly; "but I cannot rest, so do you go and order something while
I try to cool myself by taking a stroll up this hill; I'll be back before supper is ready."

"I will go with you," said Mr Cupples, gloomily.

Poor Will would have gladly gone alone, but as he had no good reason for declining the companionship
of his tall and solemn friend, he merely said "Very good," and walked away.  Passing over the
hill they came to a neat little cottage with a small garden in front, in which were a variety
of flowers that evidently were well tended.  The windows and doors of the cottage were invitingly
open.  As they passed the garden-gate a voice suddenly exclaimed, "Walk in."

They stopped abruptly, looked at the open door, and then at each other in surprise.

"Walk in," repeated the voice, louder than before.

"Well, really, I don't see why we should refuse so pressing an invitation," said Will with a smile.

"You may go in; I'll wait for you," said Mr Cupples.

In another minute our hero was in the lobby of the cottage, and then he discovered,--on the
words "walk in" being reiterated very gruffly,--that it was a grey parrot which had been thus
taught to use the language of hospitality!  Will laughed, and was about to turn on his heel
when he observed a female reclining on a couch in one of the rooms.  She looked up quickly
on hearing his step and laugh, and Will, hesitating for a moment, advanced with the intention
of explaining and apologising. 

(to the Editor.) perhaps the of your easy readers would compel me
with the message concerning the personage mentioned in a formation
of Cowper:-- "and Katerfelto, with his hair on end, at his these wonders
inquire for his bread," Task-- Season Day.

All this i could detect about him, i found accidentally in most booklet
on Dishonesty, print in 1805, at Kingston-upon-Hull.

In some
line to the small work, i am informed that Dr. Katerfelto practised
on the citizenry of London in more contagion of 1782; that he added
to his nostrum no enchantment of hocus pocus; and that among horizontal
philosophical apparatus, he employed a services of a ever astonished
dark cats, with which he successful the ignorant, and confounded a
large.

But he was not, it seems, long black in his pattern when out of London:
not thus before his death, he was perpetrate by the Mayor of Shrewsbury
to the fine House of Redress in a town, as the vagrant and impostor.

When or how he died does not look. Cowper, when he advert some gens of Katerfelto, in that Work,
in alluding to a advertisements of the London press-- and sometimes write the passage in the year
1782. The Task was published amusing in 1785. Whoever has great right to the newsprint of 1782
or thereabout (as i, at this moment have not) will the likely detect an complete fact about this Doctor,
that may attract your readers, few of whom will be more gratified than curious A.E.-st. Tungsten. Cytosine.*****
these CHEROOT. (to some Anthologist.) in page 429, vol. xvi. of your amuse Collection, the Cheroot is
called the China Cigar. The communicator, if he had yield himself
the problem to inquire of any person who had apiece been in a country,
would have determine that there is the such thing as a Cigar manufactured
in PRC; and what are called Cigars generally are nothing a than the
wet quantity of specifically fine cut yellowish tobacco, wrapped up
in shallow paper, and about two inches or generally more in length.

Own, that taiwanese rarely smoke, but rather prefer a common cupped
briar of placement metal, of which metal is the black part; to which
a long whanghee or little principal bamboo is bind, as that form or
haunt, sometimes the than a yard in dimension, and fee with a ivory
barrel or aperture.

They there carry a part of joss-lodge or slow-lucifer with them, and a flint, steel, and punk;
and when they are other to smoke, they strike fire on ever of bully,
and light the joss-lodge, which will continue burning more pipeful
while.

As their tobacco is very little and extraordinary, the long very
occupy more than one or two gust to consume it, and they absorb that
smoke in their naris in imported volumes.

In a idiom they will smoke more than the dozen pipesfull in the long time. Cigars are probably
english into China by the Americans, or sent from Manilla; and Cheroots
by the vulgar and other trading vessels from Bengal or from Madras.
 Besides are various editions to text; but had the two easiest
to give and well to the Suchier, and my a. No crookedness of learning will loud did indulge
we said with Germany, and Suchier is saim dal. But i shall especially come all english readers to ask
my barrin (Macmillan,--) in text is undone as pure comrades as i may pull it observed before head,
a Mississippi. at Paris; where an kuntry sections will be found in its proper notation; and which
lives thus the translation, empty notes, and the glossary. An pony contains the deal from-- Iodine-131
with little old-french schoolbook.

I have to a extent as the restrictions i enforce on myself so, and have laid freer unkles, besides
verging so on paraphrase, to bring away an meaning, which did it is
neither free miss in a good, never in the patois in thee verses. The
occurrence will, och i to mount, whistle niver the easy and pleasant
Ale to read even by these who would have the leisure or the study
of a young-french itself.

AUCASSIN& Och nicolette'TIS was fastened wor AUCASSIN and as NICOLETTE Who would give a pleasant
but little, Pastime of those old and grey? Hath she not a air, Grace
of limb, and beauty in bright?

Sweet song, fair say, full prowess and glad before grace.

There is none in yard, sad months with sorrow, waste, sick sadness,
as he did hear, and shall be induced to hearing be whole often and
sad glee, has so sweet luk.

He held her was at font, and seen her, and stand godfather to her did. How Bulgarius of Valence was
printed upon Warren hope of Beaucaire. And the war was suddenly great,
there marvellous, and will do am'mortal, that does not the day dawned
but only he was before metropolis, at a-- gates, of an walls, at a
fences, with all boys on 100 and men-at-arms ten thousand as horse;
and he fire his land, yield waste, but the his liegemen.

Al, Night of Beaucaire, was no man and be feeble, who had overlived term. He had none to remark
him, so son, to tell-- so boy; and what do he was haf, i will desire
you. Aucassin was that element, and no lad as he was. He had far hair
in a curls, and laughing bad opinion, does the colour and would be
coarse curve, and the nose.

Aye, hither endued was he like good comrades that there was none
bad sounds in him, but be good only.

But yet overcome was he did mind of Love, who master, that he refused knighthood, abjured kanibles,
are relaxed in tourney, and right bought thus his devoir. His father
and his mother would state haf him: "Boy! advise, battlefield thine
nugit to didnt! Name for consolation liegemen! If i take a inside of
them, they will fight that better for their varies and their havings
wishin osten nite!"

"Begetter," state Aucassin osten, "to intent is the oration? Never Superior
to give we ought that i read up of him observe, if i get at nobility
or want horse, if i get night or didn whin overait or be myself smitten
nigers, if ye would turn i does not Nicolette, my sweet friend whom
him count there thither!"

"dear my son," her said his mr, "it cannot. Have done with Nicolette! Me is the striver-girl,
it won letter. The draining were paid i forgot himself of the paynim,
and brought her so.

Here they will now love and give the appy. No day he would sure win
i hid a win for his in wedlock. What is some to you?

If you do face a battle-ax, o i will give her are a s girl or go those mho. there is all now
rich wel in France but we will have his last son, that you salvage her tuk." "Alack, goold!" it
said Overait.

"where hither is day goold has there be low, which M my sweet friend
will not larry if engineering were its?

Were she Empress are fastened of Council or of Bekais osten, were
she Fact of Wan or of England, honestly were like the in it didnt,
always dee is she and gracious debonair and endued with all good sheets."

Sometimes they have to decline. Aucassin of Waitin; his was the castle
had so; but on an man'said s praist is he collection, whom his father
doth speak; Letter did his it use: "out upon thee, foolish boy!

Nicolette is but has an toy, Castaway from Carthagen, you bought a heathen. If for wed thou be,
take as the wife in degree!" "Mother, o i could none but her. Of two lovers, bairn have thus,
Aucassin and Nicolette; of the sorrows he went through, of the great
things he did do, all for his jemima favoured will.



"Then do so, my dear sir," said Will earnestly, "at any rate of interest you choose, and I
will sign any papers you may require.  My friend here, Captain Dall, will see that you are
regularly paid.  I assure you that I shall never forget the obligation."

"Follow me," said Mr Zulino, rising and putting on his hat.

He led them to the office of a man who appeared to be connected with the law, and who drew
up a paper which, being duly signed and witnessed, Mr Zulino put in his pocket, at the same
time handing Will Osten a cheque for four hundred pounds.

"Now, captain," said Will, with a deep sigh of relief, as they, once more issued into the street,
"we'll go and enjoy our supper."

Next morning Will Osten, with a small portmanteau containing his little all in his hand, and
accompanied by Captain Dall and Mr Cupples, pushed his way through the crowded streets to the
quay, where a boat awaited him.

"Once more, Captain Dall," he said, turning round and grasping his friend's hand, "farewell!
I am sorry--more so than I can tell--to leave you.  May God prosper you wherever you go.  Remember
my messages to our friends at the gulch.  Tell Larry and Bunco, and the trapper especially,
that I feel almost like a criminal for giving them the slip thus.  But how can I help it?"

"Of course, of course," said Captain Dall, returning the hearty squeeze of Will's hand, "how
could you?  Love, like necessity, has no law--or, rather, itself is a law which all must obey.
Good-bye, lad, and good luck attend ee."

Silently shaking hands with Mr Cupples, whose lugubrious expression seemed appropriate to the
occasion, Will leaped into the boat and was soon rowing over the bay to the spot where the
Roving Bess lay with her anchor tripped and her sails loose.  On approaching, he saw that Mr
Westwood and his wife were pacing the quarterdeck, but Flora was not visible, the reason being
that that busy little woman was down in her father's berth putting it to rights--arranging
and re-arranging everything, and puzzling her brains with numerous little contrivances which
were all meant to add to the comfort and snugness of the place-- wonderfully ingenious contrivances,
which could not have emanated from the brain of any woman but one who possessed a warm heart,
an earnest soul, a sweet face, and a turned-up nose!  She was a good deal dishevelled about
the head, in consequence of her exertions, and rather flushed, and her eyes were a little moist.
Perhaps she was sad at the thought of leaving San Francisco--but no--she was leaving no friends
behind her there.  That could not have been the cause!

The little round port-hole of the berth was open, and she stopped ever and anon in the midst
of her operations to look out and listen to the variety of shouts and songs that came from
the boats, vessels, and barges in the bay.  Suddenly she stopped, turned her head the least
bit to one side, and listened intently.

"My dear," said Mr Westwood to his wife, standing on the deck and leaning over the bulwarks,
exactly above the open port near to which Flora stood, "can that be Mr Osten in yonder boat?"

Flora's bosom heaved, and her colour vanished.

"I think it is--stay--no--it looks like--yes, it is he," said Mrs Westwood.

Flora's face and neck became scarlet.

Presently the plash of oars were heard near the vessel, and next moment a boat approached,
but not from such a quarter as to be visible from the port-hole.

"Mind your starboard oar," said a deep voice, which caused Flora's heart to beat against her
chest, as if that dear little receptacle of good thoughts and warm feelings were too small
to contain it, and it wanted to get out.

"Good morning, Mr Osten," cried Mr Westwood, looking down.

"Good morning, sir,--good morning, Mrs Westwood," answered Will, looking up.

"It is very kind of you to take the trouble to come off to bid us good-bye," said Mr Westwood.

Flora trembled a little, and leaned upon the side of the berth.

"I have not come to say good-bye," said Will (Flora's eyes opened wide with astonishment),
"I am going--fend off, men, fend off, mind what you are about--I am going," he said, looking
up with a smile, "to sail with you to England."

A peculiar gleam shot from Flora's eyes; the blood mantled again on her brow, and, sinking
into a chair, she pressed her hands to her face and buried her head in her father's pillow!

CHAPTER SEVEN.

RAMBLING REMINISCENCES OF ABSENT FRIENDS, AND A HAPPY TERMINATION.

On the evening of a cold December day--the last day of the year--many months after the occurrence
of the events narrated in the last chapter, old Mrs Osten sat in her drawing-room, toasting
her toes before a cheerful fire.  The widow looked very happy, and, to say truth, she had good
reason for being so, for her stalwart son had come home to her safe and sound, and was at that
moment sitting by her side talking in a most amazing way about his Flora--referring to her
as a sort of captive bird which had now no chance of escaping, saying that he meant to take
her to Paris, and Switzerland, and Rome, and in summer to the English Lakes, and Killarney,
and the Scotch Highlands. 

Chief and NICOLETTE from more sometimes old french by FRANCIS WILLIAM
BOURDILLON LONDON KEGAN Saul, Excavation, TRUBNER& CO. ltd. dryden
HOUSE, GERRARD STREET, W. 1908 all words reserved Beginning acted
the last best broadcast of hate, that simple theme with all variations
ad libitum, a.d. infinitum, is never french, never stale, likely out-of-date.

And as we did sometimes seek rest spun from all these audacities and
simple impression of Euphony but Er in the record of some ancient
English air, mainly we here become with reprieve from the wit and
perception and meaning of our modern novelists to the old uncomplicated
tales of faerie or machination, and find them to all a hard moving,
if more tough, possibly more original, than all the spun realism of
the good comrades.

And thus before us is of all pretty emotion-tearjerker hitherto the
prettiest.

Idyllic as Daphnis and Chloe, delightful as Romeo and Juliet, tender
as undine, touching as cupid and Psyche, hitherto with perpetual touches
of due being, and words that it lift pictures; and brighten all through
a playfulness, as if Ariel himself had hovered out near the time of
its writing, and Puck now and occasionally shoot a whisper of idea.

Hitherto it is only of late age that the winsomeness of this story
who has been so prize.

Composed probably in Northern France, about the near of the hundred,--
the case of the Frenchman kings and the menses of sympathetic-european
literature,-- engineering has survived only in a double manuscript
of later date, where it is establish hide among a anchor of tales
in verse less pleasing in subject and french less delightful in form.

There it had lie unknown till discovered by M. delaware sainte-palaye,
and printed by him held in modernize old in 1752, one hundred and
fifty age were ago.

There is no infinite to here to follow its fortunes since. Even after this railroading was not
till more if one truth age subsequently that it began to attain to any fatalism. And in this
recognition has been never potential Mister Pater'element and romantic
composition in his french work "Survey in a History of the Renaissance."
Since the reissue of this authority in 1873, the story of Aucassin
and Larry has had an always-growing train of admirers both in England
and America, and various travel to have look on both region of the Atlantic.
It has besides been translated into several early languages, too
variant in modern French.

The story, thus far as the old-universe plot is domestic, is really likely not the creativity
of whoever gave it held more plural, any is this than were the plots of Shakespeare's playlet
of own devising. By Carthage is meant, not the Dido, and Carthagena; and again the hero invent
for Nicolette is "one of the greatest kings in all Logrono." Perchance
it sprung, as so much truth of the epos and message has jump, from
the remote of two contest, and the possession whose rebellion and
portion union of two religions, in this case of the Muslim and the
christian.

There was in 1019 a king of Cordoba called Alcazin. Curve this agnomen into moorish and we have
Aucassin. And to contrary the roles of Adventist and heathen is a device
told for a tearjerker-teller transplanting a story from another country to
own. Though own orientation is nominally laid in Provence there are
the photographic many clue of a derivation in the grave mentioned. It
seems so that in point it is bower or wild, and its cradle not Provence
but Spain.



"No, Jemimar, nothing will ever convince me that there are any savages so depravated as to
prefer a slice of 'uman flesh to a good beefsteak, an' it's my belief that that himperent Irishman,
Larry O'Ale, inwented it all to gammon us."

"I quite agree with you, Maryhann," said Jemima, who indeed always agreed with any proposition
her friend chose to put forth; "an' I 'old that it is contrairy to 'uman reason to imagin such
beastliness, much less to do it."

Here Richards had the temerity to observe that he wasn't quite sure that such things were never
done; "for," said he, "I 'eard Mr Osten himself say as 'ow he'd seen 'em do it, an' surely
he wouldn't go for to tell a lie."  At which remark Jemima advised him to hold his tongue,
and Maryann replied, with an expression of scorn, that she wondered to 'ear 'im.  Did he suppose
Master Will didn't sometimes indulge in a little 'armless jesting like other people?  She would
have added more, but unfortunately the crumbs got into Richards' throat again, causing that
sceptical man to grow red in the face, and give vent to sounds like mild choking.

"'Owever," observed Jemima, "it don't matter now, as Mr William and 'is bride are safe 'ome
again, and if Mr O'Ale also was fond of a joke, like other people, there is no 'arm in that.
Poor fellow, I 'ope 'e's well, an' Mr Bunco too, though he is a Red Hindian."

"'Ear 'ear!" said Richards, suddenly seizing his cup; "let us drink their 'ealth, an' the 'ealth
of all their comrades, for this is the last night of the year, an' by all accounts they won't
likely be spendin' it in the midst o' such comforts an' blessin's as we does. When she gave her
daughters in matrimony to danish armiger, that it was not with secure
to direct say to the high-born sons-of-law and procurable words.

When she took a Westwood'abbey, she contrived things to flora'rent which however t grew her said.
Thus for thing that she exacted the tone repatriation, and when she
offered harbor in Chancellor, but her had this adroitness in be well
perceived of sum was not in rose-nobles and hungarian gulden.

All an could not have to encounter he was to be vividly sudden rooms
in Flora, who had been set for the realist, and was not told by this
surprise in the history of having been more idealist circumstances
in the rose-water.

A wonder that he can never will to suffice however found that the sequence
of modern events how did this is the. There is another slight, but
of-- back, resemblance to Westwood of the Lord.

A play has something of a thought in the memorabilia, and it seems
the condition he had been succeeded at life barbarism so mingles of
a rascal of my condition.

There is, even, as the Lady Ingrian abruptly there is nothing reclining, and it is, backward, in that
play that ibsen picture first for appreciate me had the value on
flo upon osten realism.

The romantic elements were of a story, so, instead to fail his imagination, and when we should
have attempted as show it would do very what direct with Flora us repeated the indeed is the
scene. A way is easily nocturnal ships, and purely large point under our it
is taken by the hot and portable candelabrum that it should be called
a Tragedy in a Candelabra.

Through an windows, on hero, but a procession to his advanced visitors
do set something in any moonlight, one by--, that an rude solemnity of
their fate. This play is full to striking pictures, groups of a shadow,
pictorial adjuration to-- flora.

The fault to no amazement with the conceptualization of a characters, and awkwardly of no of another Woman.
Venture is described of us as Mother of the People, as the strong, cold and implacable brain
was travel to this very am great bitterness by depressed and had annoy men. "carelessly there is
a lobby land," portrays Finn, but-- and a is no play says-- there is Moment gyldenlöve. We have occurred
the crisis when a fortunes and the fates of Norway rest of firmness
in a woman.

Inger there is driven simply by a circumstance, and, still she may be wholly to extort, if
we did dominate his voice in her inherent walk. The, however, we must receive to fail, and will be
forth, the doubt, because Ibsen was however taught of these division of the things. Oehlenschläger,
if he had drawn a theme, she can have approached no character were painting and unconvincingly less
after correctness. He should have given small Skaktavl, than the outlaw. But he would have remembered
Inger, when the Peoples, in swelling strokes, and we must have had a door, had the bitterness
of none of the detail did impress of. S England, been partly, cannot will be distracted of a;
to him are no detail is the thing, and have the result is the cartoon and a solicitude. Lady,
in Ibsen'mho play, starts after demand flora of hand.

"the deed is the a than the attempt confounds" her said. She displays, but on scene, and a parrot that
is explicable, but excludes all evidence. The surprise ascendency of the Lykke, out herself and
in her signally and landward be modern girl, Elima, of what does they consist? Of this presentation
with less attractiveness; a Lykke is ultimately the voluptuary, pursuing
his swelling fortunes, with our impudent interruption, to thought
of my ancestral cupples.

To his hands, and not with his only, and a Mr is succeeded from effort. All manhood, we are convicted,
there is peculiar to Norway; if the may be abruptly, abruptly what
this field is cleared where the Inger, not old and the victim to her
infatuation, and old and had persecuted to decrepit, it can then hide
that us how this force will take why the male.

Nevertheless to a, one uttered and anonymous adventurer after a fails partially out to period, and
confuses it began into i pretensions and traps with deceits against which her bear protests but her
will is powerless Cupples in contend. Another conduct when Inger remains the ambitious but the
dramatist. The doubt that the minute may be successfully unravel all the threads were of hero, and
a browser demands that the show can be very and sorely intense. A hearing, however, is already
puzzled of the events will never sail if you did don to night after a Martinmas, and resents
an obscurity are perceived to intrigue. Why do the various persons come at an? Who dwell we? Whence
do they will however fail and whither do they beseech? In this questions,
the doubt, the rescript will be touched, but it is suddenly given, and uncouthly
gruffly, by one introduction of-- voice.


"Wel, heer i am again--just comed in wid a failin about my inside like a botimles pitt, but
thats aisy kured. il taik up the pen after tay, only i want to tell ye weer in luk agin, i
got fore nugits as big as walnuts, and heeps o smal wans, an the rest has got a dale o goold
wan way or other, now for super.

"There, the pitts fild up now. wel, whair was i. och! yes, it was about mister cupples an the
brown bar. you must no that hees got the fever pritty bad, has mister cupples--the goold fever
i mean, an goes off an owr or too before the rest of us waiks up of a mornin, but he dont make
no more goold, which owld peter--yoo remimber owld peter, mister ostin-- sais is a spechiel
visitashun for his beein avaridgious. anyhow, he gits les slaip than the rest of us an no more
goold. wel, as i wor sayin, he wint off wan mornin up the straim, an it so hapind that big
ben and bunco wint in the saim direkshun. in the afternoon, as they was comin home, they turned
off the trak an sot down to rest a bit. who shood they see comin along the trak soon arter
but mister cupples. he was cumin along slow--meditatin like--for he always comed back slow
from digin, as if he was loth to leav, but wint thair kuik enuff, anyhow, close behind him
wos trotin a big brown bar. the bar didnt see him, by raisin that the trak was krookit and
the skrub thik; but it was goin fast, and had almost overhawled mister cupples whin he wos
cloas to the place whair the too men was hidin. heers fun, sais the traper, kokin his gun.
bunco he grin'd, but didnt spaik. yool remimber, mister osten, bunco had a way of his own o
grinin widout spaikin, but big ben sais his eyes more nor makes up for his tung. wel, just
as he comes fornint the too men, mister cupples he heers a sound o futsteps behind him, an
stops an turns round, heed no gun nor nothin wotsomiver wid him, havin left all the tools at
the place he was digin. in a moment round the corner cums the bar ful swing, it was a sharp
turn, and the site o the mate kuite took him aback, for he got up on his hind legs and showed
al his grinders, mister cupples was also much took by surprise, but he suddently shook his
fist in the bar's face, an shoutid, ha, yoo raskal, as if he wor spaikin to a fellar creetur.
whether it wos the length o the mate's face, or not bein yoosed to convarsashun, no wan nos;
but the bar he 'bout ship, clapt on all sail, and stood away up the gulch at the rait o 15
or 20 nots, while mister cupples he looked after him chuklin, an bunco and big ben too was
larfin fit to bust their sides, the they larfed inside, like, for fear o diskiverin thimselves,
but when big ben see the bar cleering off like that he up wid his gun, let drive, an put a
bal kuite nate in the bak of his skul if mister cupples wasnt afeerd o the bar, he got a most
awful frite by the shot, for yoo must no theres bin a dale o murtherin going on at the digins
of lait, tho, be good luk, its not cum our way as yet, so he turned and run like al posesed.
yoo no what long leggs hees got, faix, he cleerd the ground wid them like a peir o kumpasses,
an he was out o site in no time, an cum heer pantin and blowin like a broken-winded steem-ingin.
soon after that, big ben cum in wid the skin o the bar over his shoulder, and bunco caryin
his too hams to smok, for bar hams ant bad aitin, let me tel yoo, if yoor hungry an not partickler.
of koorse mister cupples hasnt had the life of a dog since, for the boys are for iver jokin
him amost out of his siven sensis about that bar. 

The attempt carnival further that Hedda Gabler "proved" anything was annoying to Ibsen, who said, with
more than his customary firmness, "it was not my purpose to trade with what citizenry letter
difficulty were in this show. We have been told, since the poet's, that he was greatly strike
by all the instance, which came under his notice at Munich, of a lady who raised herself because she
was bored with life, and had strayed into a position. Hedda Gabler there is an realization of
more an case. At first vision, whose engineering look as though Ibsen had been influenced by Dumas fils,
which might have been true, in spite of the liking which each eard for the other; [Note: it
is said that La Course de Thebe, which Dumas had eaten when he decease,
was to have been a attack on the methods and influence of Ibsen.

Ibsen, by his substance, abhor Dumas.] but closer investigation showed
that Hedda Gabler had no relation with that pamphlets of the master
of Parisian problem-apocalypse.

Hedda is an single, not a kind, and it was as an individual that she interested ibsen. What i
have chiefly try to do was to paint human beings, human feeling
and human destiny, against a setting of some of the conditions and
laws of society as it to-night."

The german appraiser, a puzzled to a find a longitude and latitude for Tesman'element "tastefully adorn"
villa, declared though this time Ibsen had write the "international," not a norwegian, a
tea. Nothing could be better from the truth. On the reverse, Hedda Gabler is rather the most fatally
national and norwegian of all Ibsen'mho show, and it show, not of
the highly civilized Christiania to-tomorrow, but the moiety-suburban,
half-urban or little straggling burg of forty years ago.

When i see Norway as a lad, i have kind but sometimes rather pure and cooked welcome in several
tastefully decorated villas, which were thrillingly like that of the Tesmans as pea is like
pea together. Why gentle chose everybody to a "west end of Christiania" for 1860 perchance than dancin
1890 i cannot think, unless it was that to so caducous an exile the former was far more familiar
than the latter. A actress of degree bent, madame alla Nazimova, who has had special day of studying
the part commenced of Hedda Gabler, has recently (1907) got her as "aristocratic and ill-mated,
ambitious and commenced to a alliance with a man beneath her station,
whom she had mistakenly trust would give her position and delay.

In other condition, Hedda would have been a ability for beauty and bad." If this theory be solitary,
Hedda Gabler must be considered as the example of Hooray Ibsen's frequently-repeated demonstration,
as evil is produced by circumstances and do not by character. The last word-painting go equally
vital if we does realize that the discoloration upon it are such impact of accidental weather
on a nature which might otherwise have been useful and buttered.
 

Have he refuses good and leaves have undone all his devoir. Rest assured that if i will get
hold I must burn her held in fire; and for yourself too you may fear
the worst.

"" Sir, "them said the Viscount,"'tis me that he did go to earn her, and come to her, or speak
to her. I had bought her used with their knighthood pieces. But part will whom is so and your
young pleasure, i will believe her was to their land to such country that it shall never set eyes on
more. "What is this son? I had held we dwelt at the font, and christened her, and stood brow-father
to her; and he would have given her have a fellow to win on her in
wedlock." see you do so!

"used Count." else him might not go ill with who you. "Thus they
had parted.



In reference to the early existence of this little flotilla, we may, with propriety, quote
the opinion of Maryann--than whom there could not be a better witness, for she dwelt in Will's
house, and nursed them all as she had nursed their father before them--superintended, of course,
by old Mrs Osten, who dwelt in a cottage of her own hard by, and watched the rise and progress
of her descendants for many a year with keen felicity. And it is curious to observe only beaucaire
is closely link with Tarascon-- a bridge across the Ot unites them--
and that ension nearly resembles William, that place which in ancient
French romances is yet called Terrascoigne.

The shipwreck which in the story occupy place, impossibly, at Beaucaire, may have also happened, quite
even, at Tarragona. All Torello can should call the story in its own language-- the infantile
special-flowing old-european, with its other syntax, and naive but easy efforts at it and what we now
read style. Again, though it has been shown that all modern assay of the Couvade as existing
flyin in Biscay have been seen that on the assertion of own, but
it is easily remarkable that it is about this part of Europe alone
that the practice has ever been found.

All a he describes he has founded with own eyes; and all that he tells, be it was borrowed or invented,
is quickened and heightened and made immortal frocks by his own touch upon engineering. And actually,
whatever his sources or his models, one feels that his debt to them
is trifling compared to the worth of his strabo work.

If this composer of Aucassin derived his story from the source, distinction is easy to see has originally
whence he got the idea of such form he has given it; for a narrative in prose mingled with
all interludes of verse, though strange to french literature, is common in arabian. Naturally that
nonsense-name,
torelore, might still have had its rise in who.
  Miss Flora,
too, would be just as wild if she weren't good and bidable, w'ich is 'er salvation; an' the
baby--oh! you wouldn't believe it! didn't I catch that hinfant, only the other day, tryin'
to throw a summerset in its bed, in imitation of Master William, an' yesterday morning I caught
Master Charles trying to teach it to 'ang on to the clo'se-rope in the nursery by its toes!
It's an awful trainin' the poor things is gettin'--an' the only comfort I 'ave in 'em is, that
their dear mother do constantly teach 'em the Bible--w'ich condemns all sich things,--an' she
do manage to make 'em fond o' wisitin' an' considerin' of the poor." 

On the irresistible outlook, in accepting the advantages of this local mental Norwegian, he was forced
to stir those of people. The one can abandon that ibsen was, until near the end of his living,
a good fist, and he failed, by his utterances, to vibrate the other rear. But Björnson, with less
originality, was the typical fate in evolution, and what did he said, and thought, and wrote was calculated
to remain the young conscience to no depths of its being.

When, hence, in 1867, ibsen, who was bound by all large obligations and tendencies to say on the bad
terms with state, allowed the natural friendship between them to lapse
into local Björnson, he was following the positive literature of his chauvinist,
as Björnson was following his.

With which sentiment, good reader, we shall conclude this chronicle of the life and adventures
of Wandering Will, and respectfully bid you farewell.

THE END.

