After crossing the river Schofield rode to the fort that had been built the year before on
the high bluff which formed the north bank. From this elevated position he had a good view
of a large part of the battle-field and the heavy guns in the fort were engaged in firing on
the nearest flank of the enemy; but he was not only well beyond the range of every rebel bullet
that was fired, but he was also so far away by the road which a staff officer must take to
communicate with the firing line, that he was wholly out of touch with the troops that were
fighting the battle. His presence in the fort had no more to do with the repulse of Hood's
assault than if he had been the man-in-the-moon looking down upon the battle-field. The only
order that he sent from the fort was the order to retreat after the army had won a great victory.
When this order reached Cox he made a manly protest against it. He explained the wrecked condition
of the rebel army to the staff officer, who brought the order, and giving his opinion that
retreat was wholly unnecessary, he urged the officer to return to Schofield and persuade him
to countermand the order. He also sent his brother, Captain Cox, of his own staff, to remonstrate
with Schofield, and to say that General Cox would be responsible with his head for holding
the position. When Captain Cox reached the fort he found that Schofield already had started
for Nashville. The Captain hurried in pursuit and, overtaking Schofield on the pike and delivering
his message, was told that the order to retreat would not be recalled and must be executed.
In Wagner's division we had been marching, or fortifying, or fighting for more than forty hours
continuously, and believed that we had reached the limit of human endurance, but we still had
to plod the eighteen weary miles to Nashville before getting any rest.

In January, 1865, Schofield, with the corps that he was then commanding, was transferred from
Tennessee to North Carolina. When he passed through Washington en route he had the opportunity
of giving to President Lincoln a personal account of his campaign in Tennessee. The president
must have known in a general way, that at Franklin the rebel army had made a very desperate
assault which had been most disastrously repulsed, but he certainly was ignorant of the details
of the battle, and in the absence of any information to the contrary, his natural inference
would be that Schofield, as our commanding general, was entitled to great credit for that repulse.
At that time the truth concerning Schofield's connection with the battle was known to a few
men only and those who would have exposed his pretensions, if they had had any knowledge of
what he was claiming, were all far away in Tennessee. The claim for distinguished services
which Schofield succeeded in impressing upon "Honest Old Abe" may be fairly inferred from the
very extraordinary promotion given him over the heads of many able and deserving officers--namely,
from captain to brigadier-general in the regular army, to date November 30, 1864, with a brevet
as major-general "for gallant and meritorious services in the battle of Franklin, Tennessee."