The steel was so well aimed as to render a repetition of the stroke unnecessary; he uttered
one groan, and fell breathless at my feet. Exulting with this first success of my revenge,
I penetrated into the chamber where the robber of my peace was expected by the unhappy Serafina
and her mother, who, seeing me enter with a most savage aspect, and a sword reeking with the
vengeance I had taken, seemed almost petrified with fear.  "Behold," said I, "the blood of
that base plebeian, who made an attempt upon the honour of my house; your conspiracy against
the unfortunate Don Diego de Zelos is now discovered; that presumptuous slave, the favoured
Orlando, is now no more."

Scarce had I pronounced these words, when a loud scream was uttered by both the unhappy victims.
"If Orlando is slain," cried the infatuated Serafina, "what have I to do with life?  O my dear
lord! my husband, and my lover! how are our promised joys at once cut off! here, strike, my
father! complete your barbarous sacrifice! the spirit of the murdered Orlando still hovers
for his wife."  These frantic exclamations, in which she was joined by Antonia, kept up the
fury of my resentment, which by meekness and submission might have been weakened and rendered
ineffectual.  "Yes, hapless wretches," I replied, "ye shall enjoy your wish: the honour of
my name requires that both shall die; yet I will not mangle the breast of Antonia, on which
I have so often reposed; I will not shed the blood of Zelos, nor disfigure the beauteous form
of Serafina, on which I have so often gazed with wonder and unspeakable delight.  Here is an
elixir, to which I trust the consummation of my revenge."

So saying, I emptied the vials into separate cups, and, presenting one in each hand, the miserable,
the fair offenders instantly received the destined draughts, which they drank without hesitation;
then praying to heaven for the wretched Don Diego, sunk upon the same couch, and expired without
a groan.  O well-contrived beverage!  O happy composition, by which all the miseries of life
are so easily cured!

Such was the fate of Antonia and Serafina; these hands were the instruments that deprived them
of life, these eyes beheld them the richest prize that death had ever won.  Powers supreme!
does Don Diego live to make this recapitulation?  I have done my duty; but ah! I am haunted
by the furies of remorse; I am tortured with the incessant stings of remembrance and regret;
even now the images of my wife and daughter present themselves to my imagination.  All the
scenes of happiness I have enjoyed as a lover, husband, and parent, all the endearing hopes
I have cherished, now pass in review before me, embittering the circumstances of my inexpressible
woe; and I consider myself as a solitary outcast from all the comforts of society.  But, enough
of these unmanly complaints; the yearnings of nature are too importunate.

Having completed my vengeance, I retired into my closet, and, furnishing myself with some ready
money and jewels of considerable value, went into the stable, saddled my favourite steed, which
I instantly mounted, and, before the tumults of my breast subsided, found myself at the town
of St. Lucar.  There I learned from inquiry, that there was a Dutch bark in the harbour ready
to sail; upon which I addressed myself to the master, who, for a suitable gratification, was
prevailed upon to weigh anchor that same night; so that, embarking without delay, I soon bid
eternal adieu to my native country.  It was not from reason and reflection that I took these
measures for my personal safety; but, in consequence of an involuntary instinct, that seems
to operate in the animal machine, while the faculty of thinking is suspended.

To what a dreadful reckoning was I called, when reason resumed her function!  You may believe
me, my friend, when I assure you, that I should not have outlived those tragedies I acted,
had I not been restrained from doing violence upon myself by certain considerations, which
no man of honour ought to set aside.  I could not bear the thought of falling ingloriously
by the hand of an executioner, and entailing disgrace upon a family that knew no stain; and
I was deterred from putting an end to my own misery, by the apprehension of posthumous censure,
which would have represented me as a desponding wretch, utterly destitute of that patience,
fortitude, and resignation, which are the characteristics of a true Castilian.  I was also
influenced by religious motives that suggested to me the necessity of living to atone, by my
sufferings and sorrow, for the guilt I had incurred in complying with a savage punctilio, which
is, I fear, displeasing in the sight of Heaven.

These were the reasons that opposed my entrance into that peaceful harbour which death presented
to my view; and they were soon reinforced by another principle that sanctioned my determination
to continue at the servile oar of life.  In consequence of unfavourable winds, our vessel for
some days made small progress in her voyage to Holland, and near the coast of Gallicia we were
joined by an English ship from Vigo, the master of which gave us to understand, that before
he set sail, a courier had arrived from Madrid at that place, with orders for the corregidore
to prevent the escape of any native Spaniard by sea from any port within his district; and
to use his utmost endeavours to apprehend the person of Don Diego de Zelos, who was suspected
of treasonable practices against the state.  Such an order, with a minute description of my
person, was at the same time despatched to all the seaports and frontier places in Spain.

You may easily suppose how I, who was already overwhelmed with distress, could bear this aggravation
of misfortune and disgrace: I, who had always maintained the reputation of loyalty, which was
acquired at the hazard of my life, and the expense of my blood.  To deal candidly, I must own,
that this intelligence roused me from a lethargy of grief which had begun to overpower my faculties.
I immediately imputed this dishonourable charge to the evil offices of some villain, who had
basely taken the advantage of my deplorable situation, and I was inflamed, inspirited with
the desire of vindicating my fame, and revenging the injury.  Thus animated, I resolved to
disguise myself effectually from the observation of those spies which every nation finds its
account in employing in foreign countries; I purchased this habit from the Dutch navigator,
in whose house I kept myself concealed, after our arrival at Amsterdam, until my beard was
grown to a sufficient length to favour my design, and then appeared as a Persian dealer in
jewels.  As I could gain no satisfactory information touching myself in this country, had no
purpose to pursue, and was extremely miserable among a people, who, being mercenary and unsocial,
were very ill adapted to alleviate the horrors of my condition, I gratified my landlord for
his important services, with the best part of my effects; and having, by his means, procured
a certificate from the magistracy, repaired to Rotterdam, from whence I set out in a travelling
carriage for Antwerp, on my way to this capital; hoping, with a succession of different objects,
to mitigate the anguish of my mind, and by the most industrious inquiry, to learn such particulars
of that false impeachment, as would enable me to take measures for my own justification, as
well as for projecting a plan of revenge against the vile perfidious author.

This, I imagined, would be no difficult task, considering the friendship and intercourse subsisting
between the Spanish and French nations, and the communicative disposition for which the Parisians
are renowned; but I have found myself egregiously deceived in my expectation.  The officers
of police in this city are so inquisitive and vigilant that the most minute action of a stranger
is scrutinised with great severity; and, although the inhabitants are very frank in discoursing
on indifferent subjects, they are at the same time extremely cautious in avoiding all conversation
that turns upon state occurrences and maxims of government. In a word, the peculiarity of my
appearance subjects me so much to particular observation, that I have hitherto thought proper
to devour my griefs in silence, and even to bear the want of almost every convenience, rather
than hazard a premature discovery, by offering my jewels to sale.

In this emergency I have been so far fortunate as to become acquainted with you, whom I look
upon as a man of honour and humanity.  Indeed, I was at first sight prepossessed in your favour,
for, notwithstanding the mistakes which men daily commit in judging from appearances, there
is something in the physiognomy of a stranger from which one cannot help forming an opinion
of his character and disposition.  For once, my penetration hath not failed me; your behaviour
justifies my decision; you have treated me with that sympathy and respect which none but the
generous will pay to the unfortunate.  I have trusted you accordingly.  I have put my life,
my honour, in your power; and I must beg leave to depend upon your friendship, for obtaining
that satisfaction for which alone I seek to live.  Your employment engages you in the gay world;
you daily mingle with the societies of men; the domestics of the Spanish ambassador will not
shun your acquaintance; you may frequent the coffee-houses to which they resort; and, in the
course of these occasions, unsuspected inform yourself of that mysterious charge which lies
heavy on the fame of the unfortunate Don Diego.  I must likewise implore your assistance in
converting my jewels into money, that I may breathe independent of man, until Heaven shall
permit me to finish this weary pilgrimage of life.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN

A FLAGRANT INSTANCE OF FATHOM'S VIRTUE, IN THE MANNER OF HIS RETREAT TO ENGLAND.

Fathom, who had lent an attentive ear to every circumstance of this disastrous story, no sooner
heard it concluded, than, with an aspect of generous and cordial compassion, not even unattended
with tears, he condoled the lamentable fate of Don Diego de Zelos, deplored the untimely death
of the gentle Antonia and the fair Serafina, and undertook the interest of the wretched Castilian
with such warmth of sympathising zeal, as drew a flood from his eyes, while he wrung his benefactor's
hand in a transport of gratitude.  Those were literally tears of joy, or at least of satisfaction,
on both sides; as our hero wept with affection and attachment to the jewels that were to be
committed to his care; but, far from discovering the true source of his tenderness, he affected
to dissuade the Spaniard from parting with the diamonds, which he counselled him to reserve
for a more pressing occasion; and, in the meantime, earnestly entreated him to depend upon
his friendship for present relief.

This generous proffer served only to confirm Don Diego's resolution, which he forthwith executed,
by putting into the hands of Ferdinand jewels to the value of a thousand crowns, and desiring
him to detain for his own use any part of the sum they would raise.  Our adventurer thanked
him for the good opinion he entertained of his integrity, an opinion fully manifested in honouring
him with such important confidence, and assured him he would transact his affairs with the
utmost diligence, caution, and despatch.  The evening being by this time almost consumed, these
new allies retired separately to rest; though each passed the night without repose, in very
different reflections, the Castilian being, as usual, agitated with the unceasing pangs of
his unalterable misery, interspersed with gleaming hopes of revenge; and Fathom being kept
awake with revolving plans for turning his fellow-lodger's credulity to his own advantage.
From the nature of the Spaniard's situation, he might have appropriated the jewels to himself,
and remained in Paris without fear of a prosecution, because the injured party had, by the
above narrative, left his life and liberty at discretion.--But he did not think himself secure
from the personal resentment of an enraged desperate Castilian; and therefore determined to
withdraw himself privately into that country where he had all along proposed to fix the standard
of his finesse, which fortune had now empowered him to exercise according to his wish.

Bent upon this retreat, he went abroad in the morning, on pretence of acting in the concerns
of his friend Don Diego, and having hired a post-chaise to be ready at the dawning of next
day, returned to his lodgings, where he cajoled the Spaniard with a feigned report of his negotiation;
then, securing his most valuable effects about his person, arose with the cock, repaired to
the place at which he had appointed to meet the postillion with the carriage, and set out for
England without further delay, leaving the unhappy Zelos to the horrors of indigence, and the
additional agony of this fresh disappointment.  Yet he was not the only person affected by
the abrupt departure of Fathom, which was hastened by the importunities, threats, and reproaches
of his landlord's daughter, whom he had debauched under promise of marriage, and now left in
the fourth month of her pregnancy.

Notwithstanding the dangerous adventure in which he had been formerly involved by travelling
in the night, he did not think proper to make the usual halts on this journey, for sleep or
refreshment, nor did he once quit the chaise till his arrival at Boulogne, which he reached
in twenty hours after his departure from Paris.  Here he thought he might safely indulge himself
with a comfortable meal; accordingly he bespoke a poulard for dinner, and while that was preparing,
went forth to view the city and harbour.  When he beheld the white cliffs of Albion, his heart
throbbed with all the joy of a beloved son, who, after a tedious and fatiguing voyage, reviews
the chimneys of his father's house.  He surveyed the neighbouring coast of England with fond
and longing eyes, like another Moses, reconnoitring the land of Canaan from the top of Mount
Pisgah; and to such a degree of impatience was he inflamed by the sight, that, instead of proceeding
to Calais, he resolved to take his passage directly from Boulogne, even if he should hire a
vessel for the purpose.  With these sentiments, he inquired if there was any ship bound for
England, and was so fortunate as to find the master of a small bark, who intended to weigh
anchor for Deal that same evening at high water.

Transported with this information, he immediately agreed for his passage, sold the post-chaise
to his landlord for thirty guineas, as a piece of furniture for which he could have no further
use, purchased a portmanteau, together with some linen and wearing apparel, and, at the recommendation
of his host, took into his service an extra postillion or helper, who had formerly worn the
livery of a travelling marquis.  This new domestic, whose name was Maurice, underwent, with
great applause, the examination of our hero, who perceived in him a fund of sagacity and presence
of mind, by which he was excellently qualified for being the valet of an adventurer.  He was
therefore accommodated with a second-hand suit and another shirt, and at once listed under
the banners of Count Fathom, who spent the whole afternoon in giving him proper instructions
for the regulation of his conduct.

