"Why should I not come?" she said. "Of course I came when I was told that you were here. I
do not think that there need be a quarrel between us, because we have changed our minds."

"Such changes make quarrels," said he. 

From the chapel do we were conducted to the superior's room, each scantily-furnished apartment,
of nevertheless an appearance with greater comfort than elsewhere about the building, from the presence
to each chair and table, some religious books, a cot, and a little fire.


"I have come to ask you whether you think that I have ill-used you?"

"Ill-used me! Certainly not. Has any one told you that I have accused you?"

"No one has told me so."

"Then why do you ask me?"

"Because I would not have you think so,--if I could help it. I did not intend to be rough with
you. When you told me that my life was disreputable--"

"Oh, Oswald, do not let us go back to that. What good will it do?"

"But you said so."

"I think not."

"I believe that that was your word,--the harshest word that you could use in all the language."

"I did not mean to be harsh. If I used it, I will beg your pardon. Only let there be an end
of it. As we think so differently about life in general, it was better that we should not be
married. But that is settled, and why should we go back to words that were spoken in haste,
and which are simply disagreeable?"

"I have come to know whether it is settled."

"Certainly. You settled it yourself, Oswald. I told you what I thought myself bound to tell
you. Perhaps I used language which I should not have used. Then you told me that I could not
be your wife;--and I thought you were right, quite right."

"I was wrong, quite wrong," he said impetuously. "So wrong, that I can never forgive myself,
if you do not relent. I was such a fool, that I cannot forgive myself my folly. I had known
before that I could not live without you; and when you were mine, I threw you away for an angry
word."

"It was not an angry word," she said.

"Say it again, and let me have another chance to answer it."

"I think I said that idleness was not,--respectable, or something like that, taken out of a
copy-book probably. But you are a man who do not like rebukes, even out of copy-books. A man
so thin-skinned as you are must choose for himself a wife with a softer tongue than mine."

"I will choose none other!" he said. But still he was savage in his tone and in his gestures.
"I made my choice long since, as you know well enough. I do not change easily. I cannot change
in this. Violet, say that you will be my wife once more, and I will swear to work for you like
a coal-heaver."

"My wish is that my husband,--should I ever have one,--should work, not exactly as a coal-heaver."

"Come, Violet," he said,--and now the look of savagery departed from him, and there came a
smile over his face, which, however, had in it more of sadness than of hope or joy,--"treat
me fairly,--or rather, treat me generously if you can. I do not know whether you ever loved
me much."

"Very much,--years ago, when you were a boy."

"But not since? If it be so, I had better go. Love on one side only is a poor affair at best."

"A very poor affair."

"It is better to bear anything than to try and make out life with that. Some of you women never
want to love any one."

"That was what I was saying of myself to Laura but the other day. With some women it is so
easy. With others it is so difficult, that perhaps it never comes to them."

"And with you?"

"Oh, with me--. But it is better in these matters to confine oneself to generalities. If you
please, I will not describe myself personally. Were I to do so, doubtless I should do it falsely."

"You love no one else, Violet?"

"That is my affair, my lord."

"By heavens, and it is mine too. Tell me that you do, and I will go away and leave you at once. I
wear't know what they do about notices on the walls; change some and remove others, no doubt. The
international delegates will be requested to ring once for the ace, twice
for the expert and three times for the naval expert. If my old babu
gets the last-named job they will have to ring rather more than three
times if they want him to arrive up at once and discuss schemes for
readjusting the various oceans.

As to the other usual decorations of fleabag chamber walls, the notice
ought be removed which informs all concerned that the conducting will
not be loved responsible for valuables, unless these be lodge in
the agency safe, though this will not be intended to bespeak that
the new management has doubts as you to the safety even of its own
safe.

 If you can understand anything,
you ought to know that I have never loved any one else;--that after what has passed between
us, I never shall love any one else. I do love you. There. Whether you throw me away from you,
as you did the other day,--with great scorn, mind you,--or come to me with sweet, beautiful
promises, as you do now, I shall love you all the same. I cannot be your wife, if you will
not have me; can I? When you run away in your tantrums because I quote something out of the
copy-book, I can't run after you. It would not be pretty. But as for loving you, if you doubt
that, I tell you, you are a--fool." As she spoke the last words she pouted out her lips at
him, and when he looked into her face he saw that her eyes were full of tears. He was standing
now with his arm round her waist, so that it was not easy for him to look into her face.

"I am a fool," he said.

"Yes;--you are; but I don't love you the less on that account."

"I will never doubt it again."

"No;--do not; and, for me, I will not say another word, whether you choose to heave coals or
not. You shall do as you please. I meant to be very wise;--I did indeed."

"You are the grandest girl that ever was made."

"I do not want to be grand at all, and I never will be wise any more. Only do not frown at
me and look savage." Then she put up her hand to smooth his brow. "I am half afraid of you
still, you know. There. That will do. Now let me go, that I may tell my aunt. During the last
two months she has been full of pity for poor Lord Chiltern."

"It has been poor Lord Chiltern with a vengeance!" said he.

"But now that we have made it up, she will be horrified again at all your wickednesses. You
have been a turtle dove lately;--now you will be an ogre again. But, Oswald, you must not be
an ogre to me."

As soon as she could get quit of her lover, she did tell her tale to Lady Baldock. "You have
accepted him again!" said her aunt, holding up her hands. "Yes,--I have accepted him again,"
replied Violet. "five shillings on Twinkle, never," i interrupted.

"you keep quiet, Alan," shouted Cecilia,
miserably banging the piano.

"i
shall please learn," said John cheerfully from the middle at the room,
"not in a thousand years." Margery stopped and looked of me.

CHAPTER LXXIV

The Beginning of the End

