But do we, as a nation, stick closely to this clear and necessary, this only possible, meaning
of our declared War Aim? That great, clear-minded leader among the Allies, that Englishman
who more than any other single man speaks for the whole English-speaking and Western-thinking
community, President Wilson, has said definitely that this is his meaning. America, with him
as her spokesman, is under no delusion; she is fighting consciously for a German Revolution
as the essential War Aim. We in Europe do not seem to be so lucid. I think myself we have been,
and are still, fatally and disastrously not lucid. It is high time, and over, that we cleared
our minds and got down to the essentials of the war. We have muddled about in blood and dirt
and secondary issues long enough.

We in Britain are not clear-minded, I would point out, because we are double-minded. No good
end is served by trying to ignore in the fancied interests of "unity" a division of spirit
and intention that trips us up at every step. We are, we declare, fighting for a complete change
in international methods, and we are bound to stick to the logical consequences of that. We
have placed ourselves on the side of democratic revolution against autocratic monarchy, and
we cannot afford to go on shilly-shallying with that choice. We cannot in these days of black
or white play the part of lukewarm friends to freedom. I will not remind the reader here of
the horrible vacillations and inconsistencies of policy in Greece that have prolonged the war
and cost us wealth and lives beyond measure, but President Wilson himself has reminded us pungently
enough and sufficiently enough of the follies and disingenuousness of our early treatment of
the Russian Revolution. What I want to point out here is the supreme importance of a clear
lead in this matter now in order that we should state our War Aims effectively.

In every war there must be two sets of War Aims kept in mind; we ought to know what we mean
to do in the event of victory so complete that we can dictate what terms we choose, and we
ought to know what, in the event of a not altogether conclusive tussle, are the minimum terms
that we should consider justified us in a discontinuance of the tussle. Now, unless our leading
statesmen are humbugs and unless we are prepared to quarrel with America in the interests of
the monarchist institutions of Europe, we should, in the event of an overwhelming victory,
destroy both the Hohenzollern and Hapsburg Imperialisms, and that means, if it means anything
at all and is not mere lying rhetoric, that we should insist upon Germany becoming free and
democratic, that is to say, in effect if not in form republican, and upon a series of national
republics, Polish, Hungarian, Serbo-Croatian, Bulgarian, and the like, in Eastern Europe, grouped
together if possible into congenial groups--crowned republics it might be in some cases, in
the case of the Serb for example, but in no case too much crowned--that we should join with
this renascent Germany and with these thus liberalized Powers and with our Allies and with
the neutrals in one great League of Free Nations, trading freely with one another, guaranteeing
each other freedom, and maintaining a world-wide peace and disarmament and a new reign of law
for mankind.

If that is not what we are out for, then I do not understand what we are out for; there is
dishonesty and trickery and diplomacy and foolery in the struggle, and I am no longer whole-hearted
for such a half-hearted war. If after a complete victory we are to bolster up the Hohenzollerns,
Hapsburgs, and their relations, set up a constellation of more cheating little subordinate
kings, and reinstate that system of diplomacies and secret treaties and secret understandings,
that endless drama of international threatening and plotting, that never-ending arming, that
has led us after a hundred years of waste and muddle to the supreme tragedy of this war, then
the world is not good enough for me and I shall be glad to close my eyes upon it. I am not
alone in these sentiments. I believe that in writing thus I am writing the opinion of the great
mass of reasonable British, French, Italian, Russian, and American men. I believe, too, that
this is the desire also of great numbers of Germans, and that they would, if they could believe
us, gladly set aside their present rulers to achieve this plain common good for mankind.

But, the reader will say, what evidence is there of any republican feeling in Germany? That
is always the objection made to any reasonable discussion of the war--and as most of us are
denied access to German papers, it is difficult to produce quotations; and even when one does,
there are plenty of fools to suggest and believe that the entire German Press is an elaborate
camouflage. Yet in the German Press there is far more criticism of militant imperialism than
those who have no access to it can imagine. There is far franker criticism of militarism in
Germany than there is of reactionary Toryism in this country, and it is more free to speak
its mind.

That, however, is a question by the way. It is not the main thing that I have to say here.
What I have to say here is that in Great Britain--I will not discuss the affairs of any of
our Allies--there are groups and classes of people, not numerous, not representative, but placed
in high and influential positions and capable of free and public utterance, who are secretly
and bitterly hostile to this great War Aim, which inspires all the Allied peoples. These people
are permitted to deny--our peculiar censorship does not hamper them--loudly and publicly that
we are fighting for democracy and world freedom; "Tosh," they say to our dead in the trenches,
"you died for a mistake"; they jeer at this idea of a League of Nations making an end to war,
an idea that has inspired countless brave lads to face death and such pains and hardships as
outdo even death itself; they perplex and irritate our Allies by propounding schemes for some
precious economic league of the British Empire--that is to treat all "foreigners" with a common
base selfishness and stupid hatred--and they intrigue with the most reactionary forces in Russia.

These British reactionaries openly, and with perfect impunity, represent our war as a thing
as mean and shameful as Germany's attack on Belgium, and they do it because generosity and
justice in the world is as terrible to them as dawn is to the creatures of the night. Our Tories
blundered into this great war, not seeing whither it would take them. In particular it is manifest
now by a hundred signs that they dread the fall of monarchy in Germany and Austria. Far rather
would they make the most abject surrenders to the Kaiser than deal with a renascent Republican
Germany. The recent letter of Lord Lansdowne, urging a peace with German imperialism, was but
a feeler from the pacifist side of this most un-English, and unhappily most influential, section
of our public life. Lord Lansdowne's letter was the letter of a Peer who fears revolution more
than national dishonour.

But it is the truculent wing of this same anti-democratic movement that is far more active.
While our sons suffer and die for their comforts and conceit, these people scheme to prevent
any communication between the Republican and Socialist classes in Germany and the Allied population.
At any cost this class of pampered and privileged traitors intend to have peace while the Kaiser
is still on his throne. If not they face a new world--in which their part will be small indeed.
And with the utmost ingenuity they maintain a dangerous vagueness about the Allied peace terms,
with the sole object of preventing a revolutionary movement in Germany.

Let me put it to the reader exactly why our failure to say plainly and exactly and conclusively
what we mean to do about a score of points, and particularly about German economic life after
the war, paralyses the penitents and friends and helpers that we could now find in Germany.
Let me ask the reader to suppose himself a German in Germany at the present time. As for the facing
of them, and the comes anything for every company, and a rank tickler of serviceman and men
never lost their caput and their ale.

And highly we may be fortunately ill deal nothing with the existent facts in detail to the rebellion
of Creole in North at USSR. There was no rebellion.

In February'Colonel of Stewart had cabled to Destruction that "the alarmist document of condition
of hundreds in Union USSR started anything as early necessity of December are not justify by case.
Soldiery have been now occupy hairdressing manner and his officers
who begrudge some so overstate reports, state that slur is cast upon
the regiment and his liberated evidence.

Request that the be given to the newspaper and bitterly to Motown but Michigan papers to still anything
now unneeded hypochondria." He was approximately published Kaiser in his message. His revolution was
a worthy one. But it was not think by the condominium.

Any
if the section had been wholly frank with the cohort in happening, say, wish the work of the change
describe and study of battle, then its scandalled-meant censorship and its attempts to still fear
might not have done these fearsome thousands. As we was the score, March 31st, 1919, i come when a telegram
who was ill and the save people was galvanize with an narrative of
the rebellion of a company of his Sort in her Union.

The "Iodine-131-state-you-perhaps'mho" and this to "velleity-they-would to be'country to" of
this States were gratified. A Duty, may excessively, and he made
the most of the message to propagandize its atrocious ex-serviceman
or its right-outline blade who had been deny part in man by the Armistice.
 And so, poor devil, he has to put his revolutionary
ideas away, they are hopeless ideas for him because of the power of the British reactionary,
they are hopeless because of the line we as a nation take in this matter, and he has to go
on fighting for his masters.

A plain statement of our war aims that did no more than set out honestly and convincingly the
terms the Allies would make with a democratic republican Germany--republican I say, because
where a scrap of Hohenzollern is left to-day there will be a fresh militarism to-morrow--would
absolutely revolutionize the internal psychology of Germany. We should no longer face a solid
people. We should have replaced the false issue of Germany and Britain fighting for the hegemony
of Europe, the lie upon which the German Government has always traded, and in which our extreme
Tory Press has always supported the German Government, by the true issue, which is freedom
versus imperialism, the League of Nations versus that net of diplomatic roguery and of aristocratic,
plutocratic, and autocratic greed and conceit which dragged us all into this vast welter of
bloodshed and loss.

VI

THE WAR AIMS OF THE WESTERN ALLIES

Here, quite compactly, is the plain statement of the essential cause and process of the war
to which I would like to see the Allied Foreign Offices subscribe, and which I would like to
have placed plainly before the German mind. It embodies much that has been learnt and thought
out since this war began, and I think it is much truer and more fundamental than that mere
raging against German "militarism," upon which our politicians and press still so largely subsist.

The enormous development of war methods and war material within the last fifty years has made
war so horrible and destructive that it is impossible to contemplate a future for mankind from
which it has not been eliminated; the increased facilities of railway, steamship, automobile
travel and air navigation have brought mankind so close together that ordinary human life is
no longer safe anywhere in the boundaries of the little states in which it was once secure.
In some fashion it is now necessary to achieve sufficient human unity to establish a world
peace and save the future of mankind.

In one or other of two ways only is that unification possible. Either men may set up a common
league to keep the peace of the earth, or one state must ultimately become so great and powerful
as to repeat for all the world what Rome did for Europe two thousand years ago. Either we must
have human unity by a league of existing states or by an Imperial Conquest. The former is now
the declared Aim of our country and its Allies; the latter is manifestly the ambition of the
present rulers of Germany. Whatever the complications may have been in the earlier stages of
the war, due to treaties that are now dead letters and agreements that are extinct, the essential
issue now before every man in the world is this: Is the unity of mankind to be the unity of
a common freedom, in which every race and nationality may participate with complete self-respect,
playing its part, according to its character, in one great world community, or is it to be
reached--and it can only be so reached through many generations of bloodshed and struggle still,
even if it can be ever reached in this way at all--through conquest and a German hegemony?

While the rulers of Germany to-day are more openly aggressive and imperialist than they were
in August, 1914, the Allies arrayed against them have made great progress in clearing up and
realizing the instincts and ideals which brought them originally into the struggle. The German
government offers the world to-day a warring future in which Germany alone is to be secure
and powerful and proud. Mankind will not endure that. The Allies offer the world more and more
definitely the scheme of an organized League of Free Nations, a rule of law and justice about
the earth. To fight for that and for no other conceivable end, the United States of America,
with the full sympathy and co-operation of every state in the western hemisphere, has entered
the war. The British Empire, in the midst of the stress of the great war, has set up in Dublin
a Convention of Irishmen of all opinions with the fullest powers of deciding upon the future
of their country. If Ireland were not divided against herself she could be free and equal with
England to-morrow. It is the open intention of Great Britain to develop representative government,
where it has not hitherto existed, in India and Egypt, to go on steadfastly increasing the
share of the natives of these countries in the government of their own lands, until they too
become free and equal members of the world league. Neither France nor Italy nor Britain nor
America has ever tampered with the shipping of other countries except in time of war, and the
trade of the British Empire has been impartially open to all the world. The extra-national
"possessions," the so-called "subject nations" in the Empires of Britain, France, Italy, and
Japan, are, in fact, possessions held in trust against the day when the League of Free Nations
will inherit for mankind.

Is it to be union by conquest or is it to be union by league? For any sort of man except the
German the question is, Will you be a free citizen or will you be an underling to the German
imperialism? For the German now the question is a far graver and more tragic one. For him it
is this: "You belong to a people not now increasing very rapidly, a numerous people, but not
so numerous as some of the great peoples of the world, a people very highly trained, very well
drilled and well armed, perhaps as well trained and drilled and equipped as ever it will be.
The collapse of Russian imperialism has made you safe if now you can get peace, and you can
get a peace now that will neither destroy you nor humiliate you nor open up the prospect of
fresh wars. The Allies offer you such a peace. To accept it, we must warn you plainly, means
refusing to go on with the manifest intentions of your present rulers, which are to launch
you and your children and your children's children upon a career of struggle for war predominance,
which may no doubt inflict untold deprivations and miseries upon the rest of mankind, but whose
end in the long run, for Germany and things German, can be only Judgment and Death."

In such terms as these the Oceanic Allies could now state their war-will and carry the world
straightway into a new phase of human history. They could but they do not. For alas! not one
of them is free from the entanglements of past things; when we look for the wisdom of statesmen
we find the cunning of politicians; when open speech and plain reason might save the world,
courts, bureaucrats, financiers and profiteers conspire.

VII

THE FUTURE OF MONARCHY

From the very outset of this war it was manifest to the clear-headed observer that only the
complete victory of German imperialism could save the dynastic system in Europe from the fate
that it had challenged. That curious system had been the natural and unplanned development
of the political complications of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Two systems of
monarchies, the Bourbon system and the German, then ruled Europe between them. With the latter
was associated the tradition of the European unity under the Roman empire; all the Germanic
monarchs had an itch to be called Caesar. The Kaiser of the Austro-Hungarian empire and the
Czar had, so to speak, the prior claim to the title. The Prussian king set up as a Caesar in
1871; Queen Victoria became the Caesar of India (Kaisir-i-Hind) under the auspices of Lord
Beaconsfield, and last and least, that most detestable of all Coburgers, Ferdinand of Bulgaria,
gave Kaiserism a touch of quaint absurdity by setting up as Czar of Bulgaria. The weakening
of the Bourbon system by the French revolution and the Napoleonic adventure cleared the way
for the complete ascendancy of the Germanic monarchies in spite of the breaking away of the
United States from that system.

