 

But I should not go this morning to the delight of the wonderful sights, for Panya had to negotiate
with me.

"Sahib," he cried, when I asked for water, "what is this house that
you moved are!

"

I began to describe, but he interrupted me with pity.

"I'm up all night did not get the eye," he cried, and the challenging sadness his eyes almost bordered
on contempt.

"Look, Panja," I said as kindly as I was able, "I need water now, consider the morals of my country.
"

Since I Panja led through the garden, without another word, for he seems desperate out to convince
me otherwise than by the facts of the injustice of my claim.

All the freshness of the Indian spring morning enveloped us. All flowers poured from Tau, their
colors shone in the first light, so that my eyes the rapture of this magnificence is not could
take, leaving the smell of wet earth and a thousand open flowers me reeling with happiness.
Panja also came this noise, as tears of earthly life homesick Blossoming of his soul, as my the,
up with it. He lifted his brown nose in the Air smiled broadly in simplicity and ease looked
back at me. With all your senses so called He and the freshness of the light on, and his dark,
naked body glistened with dew.

When we at the end of the garden, close to the Palm thicket, arrived at the cistern, saw I
initially nothing but a tower-like wilderness of creepers, and only
when Panja the vines parted, I saw the stairs leading down to the
water level, as in the an underground cave went down.

The crumbling stone blocks were in the twilight of strange mosses green and almost completely
covered, a cool musty smell came towards me, and Panya, who seemed to have forgotten the zeal
of his indignation, warned me with a whispered word, and looked almost awesome bargain. His brown
face beneath the white turban looked out from a cloud of semi-open, red flowers, which were as
big as heads of children. A moth, as in blue velvet, rose sleepily from their traffic light and
moved silently thereof, into the wild plants.

"You must not go down," said Panya, "sitting around the death of the half light, here he goes from
the day of man; resigns. I saw the water, it is green as dying leaves and plants covered it
with flowers that never met a ray of sunshine and which are poisonous, therefore, as the serpent
and the fever who reside with them. "Then He remembered suddenly, his eyes lost their childlike
earnestness and devout, he said frowning:

"Such a house you rent! How long are you doing here? We travel back to Bijapur, I will put everything
into the suitcase. "

On the way back we met Pasha, the cook, who came across the street and walked toward the house. A red
clay pot with water on the shoulder, he walked through the sun, which
now had risen.

From the house penetrated wood fire smell. Pasha greeted me with his free hand and walked silently
past me. I felt as if he was proud of his country and to its Duty
begrudged me the first and did not the second for its own sake.

In his large, velvety eyes, under her long lashes, his desire to conceal the mountains. His manly
figure delighted me, I suddenly felt the name that I fed him shall
had, as ridiculous and wished to know its the only hinsagen to him
before me to, this strange name of his alien race from the mountains.
I was seized again that strange sadness that has never left me in
India, and the human Heart, especially unknowable bears opposite,
is peculiar. 

Panya's sensitive sense of all of my feelings that
his interests touched suspected in his own way, that Pasha wordless
work I am well pleased. He said:

"These dogs out of the crevices
have a good nose for everything edible. But he will remember to boil
the water, and tomorrow you have a fever, Sahib.

Once more he bent over the sleeping children

Kieft from the ramparts watched the burning wigwams

Stuyvesant

The squaw, with a yell of fear, wheeled to fly for her life

Blanche could not utter a word of consolation

Oliver Cromwell

"Peter the Headstrong," unable to control his passion, tore the letter
   into pieces

Tomb of Stuyvesant

The door was thrown open, and the boy Robert entered to take a part in
   the scene

His temper flamed out in word

"Are you ready?"

Sir Henry Vane

"Our journey is not one half over!"

"You are not lost, if you follow me!"

He fell upon his face in the mud and water with his gun under him

He flung him down the front steps where he lay in a heap on the ground

"Here! Shoot me! 'Fore God, a fair mark!"

Ruins of Jamestown

The ball struck four or five feet to Robert's left, and in front of him,
   splashing up a jet of water

Map of the period

A CENTURY TOO SOON.

CHAPTER I.

THE DUCKING-STOOL.

A crowd of bearded men, some in the sad-colored clothes and steeple-crowned hats of Puritans,
others in loose top-boots, scarlet coats, lace and periwigs of the cavaliers of the Cromwellian
period, intermixed with women, some wearing hoods and others bareheaded, was assembled on the
banks of a deep pond within sight of Jamestown, Va. A curious machine, one which at the present
day would puzzle the beholder to guess its use, had been constructed near the edge of the water. Then it was quiet and empty in front of me, we heard the rolling echo of the
shots from the mountains, they rumbled barking of rock wall to rock wall, rolled by the valleys
and finally faded away in the moonlight like two agitated, complaining brothers the run.

The first clear sensation that brought me to I felt the pain of my hand, with which I so firmly
clutched the revolver, as if I executed it with the whole body. I did not remember, took him
to have me, but now a sigh of relief eased the fingers and saw that I was trembling all over,
as in Frost. I later in Kanara and Mysore still some Panther killed on rice fields, lying in wait
in trees and in ravines, But never by me, shook at much greater risk, a nearly as strong Fever of horror
and helplessness. Insufficient protection is often more frightening by far than the full assurance
of a boundless acting risk, not only when it is is a panther. It may be added that it overwhelming in fact,
is suddenly to face the first time this huge cat eye to eye, the announcement of mysterious
Night darkness we have heard for months, and out of the imagination in incessant employment created
a far worse mythical creatures, than the Panther, it really is.

He is basically very shy and almost never falls on people, even children,
if it not the extreme of hunger or the hardships of the hunt required.

In the saturated Condition he always gives way to the encounter with the man and he kills any
more than the Preservation of its existence is necessary. All pastors, to me in Malabar by the
Tiger or Panther told, have voted in their experience agree that these cats make do with the,
what they need, under ordinary circumstances does the panther a goat from the flock, dragging them
from saturated, leaving the remains of its prey without envy the hyenas, the almost always be found
in his entourage, and he will only attack if the extreme Hunger compels him.

From Tiger, there are many conflicting stories, but all with great caution want to be included, because
the superstitious fear of the Hindus from the tiger is so great that
hardly anyone else is able to distinguish between facts and allegorical
inventions.

The horror of the natives from the tiger is so profoundly that in many provinces of the Concept
of evil, of Satan, in the name with which this predator does, a fact that is only understandable
when the unprecedented superiority of the Tigers on the local people know, almost all unarmed, and their
booths no sufficient protection against offer a night raid. Many say in any case is based on
the truth that Tiger, who know the enjoyment of human flesh, seldom take any other foods,
and such specimens may be the land of extraordinary horror. -

We found the Panthers shot at dawn in the aloe. The ground around was rumpled and torn in agony
was but the great beast was now quiet, as almost peaceful, without distortion and without traces
of a death struggle. I only found the path of a ball, the penetrated
behind the ear in the neck and had shattered the vertebrae.

The eyes were closed, which is found very rarely in a hunted animal, and the beautifully cut Mouth,
in a wistful and almost tender, Ernst, was a little open, as of a final death sigh moved.

Odd harmonic, strange and yet familiar in the sense of this country and necessary lifted the spiky,
blue-green leaves of the Aloëstauden of the yellow color of the fur off. I never forget this
sight, which is so crucial to me in impressing upon the soul, as I sensed at this hour for the
first time with all the fervor of unspeakable term India the brush
of any painter and poet, the word none in all its richness and uniqueness
able to communicate.

Panja was silent all morning, a powerful lord of the mountains had died. I carried me through
the day with strange thoughts, and sometimes I felt as if a wicked and senseless arbitrariness
happened when I have an engagement in the splendor and variety Creation of done slowly with the
extinction of big cats in India to its fullest Results will be diminished.

Chapter

Eight

At the throne of the sun

At night, when I could not sleep because the moon light as the prophetic
ghost an eternal death coolness on the crumbling walls along thrilled
me from the dangers the outside world, shielded awoke in my heart
the desire to reach those heights on which shone in the morning, the
red gold of the rising sun.

I am asked for it, look down from that cool, high resting from India
to the country beyond the mountains and given the vast, hilly share
my thoughts once more through those days Cause I had experienced before
I had arrived at Cannanore.

Panja opened his eyes when I came out with my new plans. He stamped the kettle in the fire that sparks
flew and looked at me for a while on the kind, the people care to create the day to convince
the out of sheer hopelessness of ever can on the brink of despair, and yet also satisfy their
desire not can hide. When I saw my life, save as, at the moment but more desire after tea,
just as was his understanding that I had for a short while to a Lesson remember where I expected
a similarly taken men s face was Pythagoras gleichzusein fact that
I understood him.

There, too, choked a regrettable Wrath in the flood intumescent impotence, and become speechless contempt
told me to bad life skill far more advance than an isolated mind, with a slight tendency to
brood, can bear.

"You look like Professor Stolzenburg," I said to Panya, because I consider that one evil thoughts
of good people over pronounce most open so that a way to compensate Search by joint efforts
can be. If I had but at school already knew, maybe would exacerbate the stern so many of my
morning hours between und zehn elf with clock persuaded to leave.

Panja disdained to investigate the significance of my comparison, he said after a while resignation:

"Well,
it's indifference, Sahib, if we die here or there in the water."

The fortified my decision in the best, because like all the reckless and stubborn at the same time
assessed natures I have often yielded to the tendency in me, each batten, between me the feet
has been cast to use as a springboard.

One must, however, can jump; dare to dererlei to be allowed, that is true, and this "jumping-Can"
is basically nothing different than what people usually have "luck-call".

Lucky there is not.

The so-called happiness is so closely linked with skill, such as unhappiness with clumsiness,
and this truth applies well not only on external events, including the accident the last soul
is clumsy, though to a much greater sense of his rights in the Regularity of the world being found.

I have the time not Panya said he ran back and forth, fiddling with in such a way Objects that
one could see clearly that any relevance to his zeal was associated. It is curious that people
who have become angry, so often tend to to make lightweight objects from one place to another,
and sometimes even back then of the new place on the old back.

Apparently it is because their thoughts with the Decisions similar approach, and that a secret
tendency exists, the body and the soul possible in line to get another. I remembered at Panya
useless employment My father, if he for some reason, expressing that his belief does not mean
by the revealed. Unfortunately, this usually happened at the noon meal, otherwise I avoided every
effort to sit opposite him without cause long-term calm, and then I saw the knife or the fork,
even the salt-cellar, or the napkin ring soon to the right, walked quickly to the left side of
the plate. Unfortunately we then had knife sharpener in use of emery, round, black bars on the length
of a moderate and asparagus with a handle made of polished hardwood. If by chance a very important
expression my father with the transport of this useful article coincided, it was in the rule
that the emery was broken, for his superiority, even the best Steel to proven, not in combat
with the table top.

This increased the anger of my father to the point of concern and one-sidedness attracted the
whim of my mother suffer, while most of my self-consciousness a significant recovery and gave me permission
not taught without the thought that my character in the eyes of my father would be considered
mild to much, if we Knife Sharpener Grooved steel would take into use.

So I said Panya because my views on knife sharpeners, and this unexpected expression I believe
it brought so much to my senses that I got tea.

He drank, as usual, I crouched over in the morning sun, moving melancholy in his turban. Apart from
him, he was wearing for weeks now no more than a narrow loin cloth,
but his heavy turban he resigned himself not in the greatest heat.

It is really quite remarkable with the Panja been more decisively to object often at the beginning
was the more vivid was his zeal usually from the moment in which
he noted I could not change her mind.

In both, I realized the genuine concern of his tendency to and I never remember him without the
grief of one of the greatest losses of my Life. The harmony of our relationship may be based essentially
on his conscience, it was clear that the superiority of my race with the firmness of a natural law.
That was his nature each Devotion in low spirit and made his resignation by a Humility worthy
that almost had an impact of religiosity. Today, he cultivates in Malabar the rice fields at
Purrha, that shady land on the Palm Forest, the cabin of his Father stood up and he had to serve
in a foreign land, because his brothers the Temptations of the big cities had succumbed to
wasting. The buy-back of this little piece Land was my last gift to him, and it does worry
me that I was never the certainty I can give, that his gifts have been to me more and imperishable
gifts are.

When the tea was drunk, he said angrily:

But Passover is here. "

He still did as though this trip in any case, think, and probably he said so after a while:

"It's three days or nights for the rise is needed, but in half the
time we get from.

Have you perhaps thought we needed more time?

"

I had not believed it.

Panja looked up to the peaks.

Above all drenched in light, a brilliance never seen transfigured the lonely peace, the circling
eagles shone, as if they were made of gold.

"All the dreams stay long slightly from the freshness of the heights," he said sunk.

"Panya, hear, who has just learned to love the beauty of the earth,
the earth in his short Days of life truly mastered.

In this sense it is given to us by God, he has with us in mind when he gave us. "

Panya smiled childish, at such times I could have him in my arms.

"Nothing will happen to you, sir," he said quietly to himself as I do not know if he believed
in such confidence in God's help or his, of course, is that I seldom
in life again made famous by a man near as happy as I by his.

                  By nothing a man can do his own forces us to provide better, than
by He believes that our.

* * * * *

So we ventured before dawn the next day to climb two together, even around when the night prevailed
and the blue tents of the mountains before us shone the stars. We walked in the scant singing
of the crickets by arid steppe grass under the tall Latambäumen meaning which stood at wide
intervals apart. Occasionally switching over our heads a monkey If we had the wake, or a bird
flew with a loud wake-up call that our Middle of the unsuspecting nature, announced the unthinkable at
these sites probably since long time the foot is no man had entered.

It was cool and still, Panja did not speak, and I step in a dream spell of a loneliness so deep
there that I felt sometimes as if I saw, as a foreign third party, our little two by the giant,
gray-green waves of the hills , Then walk in the twilight under the trees and stars.

It was careless enough that we took the road of no torches, for in the morning in this Season
at the Panther boldest when it carries an overnight raid by the vainly Twilight sweeps. But it
was so bright among the stars that we saw well over the country,
and I carried the gun in his hand.

Panja walked silently next to me then, light crossing and with uplifted eyes, strength and joy
went out of him, and I felt as all Living organisms belonging to his country, and the harmony
of his soul communicated itself to me as if I also at home.

Suddenly he began to sing softly, his eyes always focused on the ups and so lost in itself, but
when he steps through the country.

His muffled voice remembered as well as the monotonous rhythm of his song, the chant of the
priests whose temple in Cannanore behind the garden of my house was in the open, and suddenly
I was out of the free Height and from the cool air in the tropical lowlands were added so that
was me that was beating the stifling fumes of the passionate growth over me together.

When I picked up after a while the looks, after we passed through the last trees had, I was
startled by a brisk, fiery red line of light, the sky ahead of us, high up, cut up in a horizontal
direction. Still dead of color and how it dragged on red Band along the ridge there, behind
the hills, the sun was risen.

I turned shaken and looked behind me to the land under the starry Dämmerblau the falling night,
Far on the sea was stirring a pale silver sheen. As between two skies of blood and Silver
beat my delighted heart continues to beat the wide, green-brown waves of Earth infinitely small
and yet the source of my blissful existence incomprehensible joy. Panja threw himself on his
knees and buried his face in his hands. -

An hour after the sun looked over the mountain peaks heard, the trees almost completely. Well,
we saw once we had climbed a height, to the right or left, the dark Walls of large forests
in the distance, but soon we were more difficult for the outlook, since we are in a Gorge, in the
bed of a dried-up climbed mountain stream. One of the peaks to climb, stood in the way of our
lack of equipment as soon as unworkable out, and so struck Panja
before attempting to climb one of the closest passes.

We were able to march most of the morning round because the air was cool and from a Transparency,
which acts against a cloudless summer day German shrouded in fog. Panya's easier for me happiness
each strain, he laughed often without any apparent reason, only abundance
of life force and happy about the fact of the heavenly blue covered
the world to be there.

When we later around noon, much more, in the shadow of a cliff and stop making our Panja Meal prepared
startled, in the not too far away, a dull, increasing in thunder me. Panja jumped up and peered
with eyes protected in the shimmering waves of steppe.

"The buffalo," he exclaimed, "look the cloud that rolls down the slope."

It was the first time that I saw from so close to a buffalo herd. She rolled like a dark avalanche
then, and the ground shook.

For short I distinguished in the foreground one or the other of the hard black horned heads,
big eyes and the gloss of the the case of the manes. I did not shoot because Panja excited me in the
arm was when I got the rifle lifted, and he later told me that it happened that the senior bull,
by an attack in terror or anger added, suddenly changed direction and straight on the obstacle to
have taken. Although we had found a refuge on the rocks, but if our flight would be our failure,
we would have been crushed as the whole herd the bull follows.

"The buffalo fight with the tiger," Panya told me, 'even the tamed fear him not, and become
familiar with them ordering the rice field, the Tigers will take care not to attack you. The
buffalo him down rather than you, and it's not going to succeed him from his location to Displace
because he turns just to the tiger, like a flag that you carry into the wind. If Tiger makes the
leap, it ends on the horns, and you're safe as long as Do you behind your animals are. "

The smoky cloud of dust in the lower area, and the clear air was still again. I slept have shortly
after the incident one, taken without food to me, and I was awakened by Panja not because he knew
the tedious and dangerous power of the sun, whose rays on the Mountaintops act otherwise than
in the valley, although the coolness can forttäuschen it. So It is in the mountains, almost more
so than in the valley, not the head and temples unprotected to leave,
the sun has many mortally wounded, their power over these colder regions
did not think or forgotten.

My cork helmet pushed me too far but, On the contrary, it was easier from day to day because a group
of moth-like parasites had taken possession of him and he also developed and consumed. Sometimes a rippled
fine granulated or down, as proof of a loving nature, they do not have people in total Isolation
can be done his way. Panja was already with all sorts of resources to these animals pulled
into the field, but they relied on me and multiplied more passionate, The more she suppressed
Panja. -

It happened to me, that I soon reach of a high pass from a view of the Indian Country won down,
I had traveled before my time in Malabar. The huge hills extended, as stored from time immemorial,
without any sign of human work, and as the giant waves of a sea that had fallen in the storm in
solidification. The Level in the distance shimmered as light gray and the surface of a huge
lake, I thought tiny Spitzlein and turrets can be seen in her, whose silhouettes against otherwise
contrasted the sky, as if the horizon is fenced with barbed wire, fine.

We stayed the day on the pass against under the roof of a fallen rock diagonally the rays of
the sun, protected and covered by the incredible silence of the height Figures of my memory,
as in the hour of parting, in the song of the eagle, yet even through my mind. Spirits came
out of the blue to my mind, then invaded Decreased in the consciousness of the world still linger,
brothers and enemies in mind, hope and fate, friends and enemies in the world of pleasure
and distress and rapid death.

On every continent, the death of another face, his features are nowhere
more solemn, than here in Europe, I have forgotten a little, his pathetic
gesture of my Sunday Home to appreciate.

There are no one the specter of despotism are eerie that, by made that he canonized, is certainly
the heavy romantic conception of Death that prevails in Europe, a consequence of the action of
the Church, the fact of death has put so much in the area of ​​the monster from its exposure to some
to gain their authority. We are dying in the presentation made so difficult that certainly a good
deal of righteous and unrighteous disappointed at the death in the most pleasant be.

Death is mandatory, as is the life. It is every man die so easy or so difficult become as his natural
life, and one who has understood, and the other can.

The people of India die easier, more natural and somewhat inconspicuous when we left, the deity
they care for their future and the idea of ​​being elusive learn that they are responsible in
the last hour for an orderly exit should be. This view, the Christian is called, comes from
no means of Conviction of the innocent founder of our church, but the calculating prudence their
managers.

Slowly pulled the sun shining its bow, and the country changed in their appearance. When back
to the days come for me to go there in such great stillness, the thoughts and Dedicated memory,
subsided by the battle cry of the eagle? As I looked down into the country, soon encircled
by vines of melancholy dream, which glowed with light, now in wonderful Clarity of the ether disappeared,
I went through twice as much that I saw and experienced had when I passed through the land at
my feet. To the north-east had to be Bijapur, the old royal city, from their castles ruins rose
the mighty hemisphere that once a Mohammedan prince was built entirely with gold can turn out. It
was against the rising sun open, the light broke into a thousand-fold shine in it, so that no
eye could look into it without being blinded. Located in the heart of this dome, under the domed
roof of gold, were the two throne of the Maharaja and the Maharaja Khunwar, the king's son set
up, and in the fierce glitter narrow beam, which the fire of Morning sun reflected a million
times, the king received his guests. Shall serve the precious Blood of its mountains and the
sky light of the new day of his glory, and the bewildered Friends of his empire, which took
place at the moment of sunrise from his throne, heard the greeting of the princes heard of
a gloss, which closed her eyes and knees to Ground force.

It may have been, served as heaven and earth an Almighty, to his Jurisdiction to make incomprehensible.
Between that gold dome and the marble plateau on which the Arrivals were performed, was a garden
full of blooming flowers of deeper, as open in fragrance and beauty just the tropical sky, and
the scents of their cups were joined by the splendor.

The Magnificent Sultan fell from the hands of a stronger king, who came from the north and destroyed
the city.

Her gates were up to the round arch of the vault full of dead, and the teeth of the fallen master
of the city could not from the ivory handle of his Saber be resolved, he had mangled body,
not the enemies want to leave. He was found under a pile of his fallen followers, and the legend,
that he was also buried under the immense dome Sun, which he himself,
as all the rulers of that time, has in his lifetime to build.

This
gigantic grave monuments of the city still dominate the debris field
of Bijapur, remember them in their design and size to mosques, is
also in some still worship held, or they attract thousands of Muslim
pilgrims as a place of pilgrimage continues Environment in the holy
city of the great dead. For his king and church, this smiling gentleman, with
his easy and friendly air, was going to fight like a tiger or a ruffian. Under his glove of
velvet was a hand of iron, which would fall inexorably alike on the New England Puritans and
the followers of Bacon. With the courage of his convictions, he was ready to deal out banishment
for the dissenters; shot and the halter for rebels. He lived on his estate of about a thousand
acres at Greenspring, not far from Jamestown. "Here he had plate, servants, carriages, seventy
horses, fifteen hundred apple trees, besides apricots, peaches, pears, quinces and mellicottons.
When, in the stormy times, the poor cavaliers flocked to Virginia to find a place of refuge,
he entertained them after a royal fashion in this Greenspring Manor house. As to the Virginians,
they were always welcome, so that they did not belong to the independents, haters of the church
and king."

From the very first, John Stevens did not like Governor Berkeley and in a short time learned
that he was a tyrant. Berkeley issued his proclamation against the Puritan pastors, prohibiting
their teaching or preaching publicly or privately.

John Smith Stevens participated in the Indian war in 1644, and saw Opechancanough, at this
time almost a hundred years of age, captured and brought to Jamestown, where he requested his
captors to hold open his eyes, that he might see and upbraid Sir William Berkeley for making
a public exhibition of him. A short hour afterward the aged chieftain was treacherously wounded
by his guard.

In the year 1648, John Stevens married Dorothe Collier, the daughter of a clergyman of the
church of England. This naturally united him to the cavalier or church party, while his mother,
brother and sister were Puritans. Sometimes John thought he had the best wife living, at others
he was almost persuaded that she was intolerable. She was a beautiful brunette, with great
dark eyes which smiled when the sky was fair, but in which appeared the lustre of a tigress
when enraged. Love in its full strength and beauty seldom dwells in the heart of both husband
and wife through all the vicissitudes of life. It was so in John's case. When the honeymoon
waned and practical existence began, the wife became ambitious for a more showy manner of life
and more pleasures than the husband could afford. He was prosperous; but his wife's extravagance,
in which he indulged her at first, kept him poor. Poverty became a burden and marriage a mockery.
He who had been insanely in love, and who was unable to live out of her presence, proved an
indifferent husband before the honeymoon was over. Why? John had thought his wife an angel,
and marriage had shattered his idol. His ideal woman had fallen so far below his expectations
that disappointment drove him to indifference. His wife thought herself his superior, and John,
to her, was more a convenience than a husband.

Gradually Dorothe grew indifferent toward her husband's mother and young sister, who idolized
him, and though they bore her no thought of ill, she came to despise them. John's mother saw
that her son's wife was ruining him by her extravagance, yet she dared not interpose as it
would make the rupture complete. This seething, bubbling swamp fertility my body
would also absorb and re-bloom leave if she sucked in her area. The forest was more powerful
than humans. -

One night I lay in the tent on a hardwood stock, because I found the uncertain resiliency of
the hammock could no longer bear. Guru was asleep by the fire. He sat in front next to the glowing
ash the triangle of the tent door like a decapitated, the neck between the knees drawn up,
and his nearly three meters long, ancient Arabs rifle surpassed him like a half-sunken Flagpole. He
loved this rifle and tenderly carried it mostly to himself, especially when viewing there was
that we met people. He lived in the firm belief that these Weapon would never hurt him, loszugehen
one day. He was disappointed not in danger, be, because the gun was a hundred years old, had
safely from the Sudan to Singapore traveled throughout the East, and there was no way to charge
them or even firing. But Guru had with this weapon in the middle of the jungle carelessly fallen
asleep, so sure he was except that no other being like him hope as
he sat on his long talisman.

We had come on the day of rock foothills of the mountains, in the canyons of the jungle upwardly
extended in order to clear more and more. flowed in the crevices clear Water, and when we finally
turned back because the ground was too rocky and overgrown came we said to a small village
of about ten booths, the Itupah. Not far from this establishment we had pitched the tents and
lit the bonfire.

The people had come to offer us fruit, but had soon withdrawn because our equipment to them
appeared too magical and hazardous.

I could not sleep. The voices of the wild animals and the moon I could find. Panja had crept
into the Hindu village in order to pass love affairs, he used the
excitement caused by my presence in Itupah had to demonstrate how
justified it was.

A few spots moonlight lay on the tent's entrance, such as paper pulp, and the crickets filled
the Air with their chirping, as would a fine silver wire filed was made haste maddened convicts.

There
was a rustling in the corner of the tent, and when I looked over, I discovered a tiny animal
that I initially held for a raccoon. It sat still as death, after my movement it suspicious
had made, and looked at me with two huge black eyes, the way ahead and sat close together, like
a monkey.

The delicate little head was not much larger as a walnut in its green
shell, and the color of the skin seemed gray-brown, as a squirrel
in winter.

The little I liked extremely, and I tried connecting to gain it.

"Come closer," I said, and whistled softly a few more notes in the same dim Night air. The animal
did not move, and I thought of a means of attraction.

When I made a Motion with the hand made to offer him an English biscuit, which was next to me, did
it a silent jerk, and the angle tent was empty. But after a while it slipped again like a shadow
by the moon's spots, the little stranger was back, apparently was He badgered by his curiosity.

The
two black eyes sucked balls, wide open and staring in amazement, my appearance in on, I was never
stared Sun The little one seemed terribly excited with the desire to bring out what it was for
any relation with me, and what makes me out of my remote country
now, especially in the vicinity of the city people Itupah and there
in the area of ​​his Dwelling might have led.

I would not be able to say to him. want to disappoint but I did not.

"Do you have family?" I asked softly.

Fort he was.

The question may for the beginning of an acquaintance, perhaps a bit intrusive have been, but after
a short while came the small but again, this time in exactly the
same Place between our glasses and salt Panya sandals.

He now seemed to have noticed that My words were not as dangerous as he had initially assumed,
and there was a little closer to stare better.

I was sorry that I had nothing to offer, and that his distrust my hospitality excited.

"It seems you live in the night," I began cautiously, "I take it your eyes and the fact that we meet
at this hour. I beg you, no false conclusions to draw on the many devices that you see here are
basically moves us a long time upright heart being no other desire
than for you.

It can be said so easily: the happiness to be in the sunshine in the world, love and sleep. In
watching something like a indefatigable hope that it might one day all be wonderful in many
ways.

This speaks even from your big night eyes, and the desire that you herzutreibt, basically
anything different than mine, which caused me to get into the wilderness of your home? "

As I said, a bright, angry whistle that went through my marrow, and immediately rang out, an
assertion, an annoying hiss in the leaves of my camp. Now it was quiet to lie, that would have
been a morose conclusion of my jungle trip ...

I now knew who was in front of me, but far more important was me whom I in my close proximity to
the dead leaves tell. The little animal in front of me began to gently to rock and strange, bringing
to the light and shock as half whistled, half creak sound show, which was the companion of
my camp.

Now it flowed right under my Sight, out of sticks out, as the trickle of a thick, dark liquid,
and sought the to win out. A small shadow of the tent the edge of the snake darted quickly after,
and started out for a short while, moving from a wild snarling, hissing and snoring Rustling
and grinding. Then it was quiet, and I could hear was the hammering of my heart and saw the white
scraps of paper of the moonlight, to slow the monotonous music grill again dominated the night.
I felt as if they have been silent, while a fate under the creatures of the night people had played
in front of my eyes.

How strange our expectations often differ from the phenomena themselves! I of this remarkable
animal had often heard that in India as the worst enemy of the snake
is praised, and often even by the British as a pet to protect against
Cobra is to be kept, but I had to fulfill my wish, this animal once
meet, differently.

                  What had happened more than a few calls of struggle, fear and lust
for life torn scurrying and jumping?

Shadowy, almost unreal it was done, gray, in the shadows and without that pathetic gesture,
the first the realization slowly gives the event. Only the memory creates the shapes of the Heroes.
Was all this? How will we fare with the rapid, small life that we in Expectations can then scurry?

*
* * * *

Often, when I wandered through from our tent to the can, and Elias the jungle, saw I lie from the river
bank of the alligators in the sun. They were sunning themselves on the banks and were confused
way and that, even were even two successive, that was embarrassing.

The expression of their faces was very large, generally extremely happy, the tiny Eyes twinkled gaily,
and huge, wide-open mouths often showed a distinct Hang smile. You could see the animals, as well
cartilaginous shed their skin the sun: did, and decided it difficult to accept anything bad
from them. Sometimes some chuckles in their yellow throats, so tender and soft as wax.

I've never seen that, the length of two meters exceeded their African brothers and sisters seem to
belong to another people impact and more value to the intimidation of human lay. Sometimes I
shot one of these giant lizards, but my ball had never so crucial that the wounded animal does not have
time, won in the water too fast. It may also be that I have never met. After the thunder of the
shot fades was, was the sand is usually empty. These animals have an almost offensive hurry Way to
recommend to shoot into the water like torpedoes, it is impossible
to make a motion to distinguish their legs, and it makes it look as
if they were to streamlined rubber bands connected with the water
and would be released suddenly.

They swim and splendidly remember in the flood of pike, but are extremely shy and only a smaller
deer dangerous they surprised at the trough.

I threw them one morning to the remains of a slain deer antelope, which I do not more than
a portion of the back had been able to enjoy, and would kill the sun or the jackals and, incidentally,
was shocked by the senseless greed of this Flußgesindels. It took barely a minute, until the body of
the animal drifting in a bloody foam tank in a thousand pieces disappeared
torn.

At noon, the monsters were back in the sun and smiled, while the wide, turbid stream gurgling
Adda, winding and the sunshine in murderous light arrows in the aching eyes threw that had spoiled
the jungle twilight.

Once I was sitting near our tent in the air Rankenverschlingungen the roots of a wild fig tree
in the morning sun on the river and cleaning my hunting rifle when it next to me rustling in the
mangroves. When I turned, I saw a small Hindu boy in front of me stand, the completely paralyzed
with fear was.

His eyes seemed to become lifeless, like two black, round mirror, and his mouth was open. It was
quite understandable, for I had bathed and so much the body, how to describe it without exaggeration
about with nothing. Apparently had the boy on his morning walk to the river expecting anything
else, such as a white Monster to be found, the grinning at him.

He trembled violently, and swallowed, but dared not move. This was worse than the Tiger, It was a
terrible Waldspuk. Over and over know this was strange being that since he remains a incomprehensible
thing about the bare knees, held dripping and glittering eyes and had, in the you could not
look into without risking its destruction. But this steamy Monster suddenly sneezed, is wrenched
the tortured little chest, all with horror filled, was a loud Jammerruf
and probably made the boy inside a rapid Line under his bygone life
and finally decided in his expectations.

In any case, He fell to the ground, his face pressed into the plant and met again and again
the same monotonous wail out in which he is probably the special favor of some Idols recommended.

It
seemed nothing in the sense of what I could do about, the broken, small to calm man. If I
had touched him, he would have died of fear, so I left him for the time being lie and noted that
it has a toilet in a similar stage the development was how mine. Then I fell on him, an innocent
and useful Vorzupfeifen as that contained in my opinion, something
soothing, only selected I am an old lullaby, a hymn and then finally
"Hail" in the winners circle.

That worked. My friend turned the dark head on the ground so far that he me with the one Eye
could see up to about my knee. I was eating people, was still safe for him, but it seemed as if
I were not in a hurry to have. I gave him to understand now in a reserved manner, that he should rise
up, and he obeyed; still trembling, but obviously surprised that I like a reasonable understand
human speech and more, in his own language. He was to some extent only from the eyes, and burned
them in a single request, which, on inconspicuous way to be able to recommend; stare could be
far better from a hiding place, and what was made this approach are
good?

But he changed his mind yet, as I felt for my clothes and give him a copper Anna held under the eyes.
First, it was there that made comprehend, but only slowly dawned in his little head out of
the belief that it should be his. It was absolutely impossible. As if the value of those round
metal plates did not know that his father sometimes from brought the port cities when he was carried
down pepper or ginger roots, and Aid of which one could obtain everything,
all the glories of the world, colorful cloth, the candy the bazaar,
rice and cassava and power over all the boys of the village.

And he got away without eating with his sweetheart, after he finally realized that my plans are
exhausted in this offering.

Maybe he remembers me at a time where he became a youth and as its first copper Anna in the
port cities of some other deserving, and his opinion may have changed on us white, two times
in a sense. -

More and more I felt from day to day that a foreign stock, not determine was the nature of my
blood changed. I put the blame, as it is in such cases wont to do, now on this, sometimes
to the other, today I thought the drinking water the reason to be, tomorrow the tobacco, or a strange
fruit, then I connected my State with my insomnia, or the nature of this sultry, thousand Fragrances
heated air. Panja looked at me long and often worried by the side without Know that I was aware
of his looks, and that it irritated me. I treated him unfairly and hard, but he remained patient
and not as earlier fell to his offended pouting. In general, he had changed markedly in recent times,
I did often when he had a new responsibility raised above themselves,
just as if he had proven themselves need to get his powers and virtues
to be aware of.

I rewarded him this change bad but I could not help it.

I felt sometimes as though my brain is reduced by as much and it makes strange Rotations and fluctuations
in its shell, like a floating ball in a water glass.

But I hit upon all sorts of remedies to help, just not on the only one that I would be: on
the run from the depths of the jungle.

Was it morning, so I had to wait for the lunch, in which the insects blessed with a Showers,
or the big butterflies easily and silently from flower to flower covered by unlikely to deep
blue or green, while the world went in hot abundance. With the faint Discomfort of the sinking
afternoon I had to wait for the evening and in it the night with her Light and chime black depths,
its gurgling and moaning voices the rapacity and the passion 'and
dazzling with their stars.

Day and night for me were no longer a Terms of waking or rest more, but changing features of the
Indian world face, magically together over surging, disfigured prophetic.

I had forgotten my home. Europe sank into my memory like a loud, ugly Dream full of useless agitation,
and I smiled sympathetically about the disgrace to me in the happened to my little Participation
characteristics seemed to be hurried past. The Notebook, screaming, bright colored life seemed
to me the wrong doings of the great cities, and I went and bought in sleep and wakefulness,
as in spring and winter, the face of the day and seasons merged together
to form a nondescript feeling of change, and the innocence of the
plants, which enveloped me, like a living robe, was the strongest
Power over my cognitive powers slowly disappearing.

It drove me out of the jungle night sometimes back to the desert edge, it was a desire to see the
open sky and the wide brown hills, and I was given this Brightness, as I undressed a soundless quiet
storm of light. Often we set out in the middle in the night, sometimes took the same path
we had traversed on the day of trouble and the camp set up at the abandoned fire. I felt as if
the plant hindered me from breathing as she stole my heart, what you did to live not. Often
caught I am excited about and malicious eyes of a flowering plant
whose Helping Passion 'in purple goblets me with anger and hatred
and yet filled with devoted humility.

Slowly was one of my manuscripts and books by one of the nightly fire victim fallen, I saw
the white sheets in spiteful satisfaction wither in the heat and felt me free when the charred
roles crumbled. Only a small, silly little book accompanied me much longer, I know confidently
that I destroyed not only because, because a remarkably intricate vine decorated in embossed gold
or binding, non-matured pointless and intrusive, but it did me good to pursue these lines
with the tired eyes.

Once I tried to recall me to the place where messages could be for me, I closed at Bombay, Madras
and Goa, but I do not remember.

In the ears of the shell against the quinine, I often dreamed in the dead quiet midday with eyes
closed in the winter. Again and again the same image appeared before me: a river valley in the gray
morning mist, in the fields of bluish snow falling in the daylight, and then drove an icy wind
on the pitch black water, on which ice floes. You met and creaked and sounded, on some of them
were ravens and could carry. Then I suddenly felt the cold as a sharp
pain on the forehead and cheeks, and my Chest expanded, as burst with
freshness.

In cold showers I slept on such Sometimes a vision, but the most senseless dreams robbed my sleep
the desired refreshment.

One night I dreamed I was asleep at sea, in a mountain gorge, and suddenly I was awakened by
the voices of two men, the sound of a strange relationship with the had speeches of seawater.
I sat half-up, elbows propped in the sand and looked to be affected.

The sun had sunk into the sea, and appeared from the depths, through the Water. Although she excelled
themselves red, but the light air was green and pale, and strange shadows went through waves, probably
caused by the shore waves.

The two men were standing side by side in the sand that gleamed like turquoise. They had her arms
and simply without gesture down to the body, and its slightly drooping brows looked at me in
a quiet, round eyes from a bright blue uniform, in which I no could differ sign-off of the pupils.
The color of their skin was yellow and amber her hair white, they
had wide but thin shoulders, and her hips were so slender and so little
honored that one of the armpit to the ankle looked, as in a straight,
oblique bar.

At their temples eosinrotes a band was fastened the subjects in a wide on the left shoulder
sank and disappeared behind her.

Thus, the two were two that are not otherwise clothed, calm before me in the green air with its
mysterious shadows waves. It seemed to me that they were smiling, but rather curious as mocking.
At last they began a conversation with each other and tried seems to awaken, as they had to respect
my opportunity, but I differ but that They spoke only because of me. They smiled secretly
and without due and saw at times with a quick glance over at me.

Well, according to one of them up at the rocks of a gorge, where half the height of the mountains,
a uniform, deep cut in the rock felt made, which was hollowed out
round.

"Exactly," replied the other is, "that's our old sea border, the last, but where the border
of the fathers gone? "

"The flood peak down too quickly," was the reply, "the new world is small."

Then I distinguished not everything they said or thought, but I felt that she of sunken rich
language, their culture sites of the sand sea since time immemorial buried deep in the grounds of flood
had, and they whispered from the fact that the time will soon must begin where the sea floor and
the ground should be reversed. Shocked came over me an inkling of the rich, who hid the sea, and
I saw her after her Resurrection, slowly breaking from sun, wind and rain out of their sandy
shell. I dared no question, though my heart was burning with desire, the experience of two people
participate, but it was as if she sensed that my intention in mind,
contributed to them their secrets to wrest, as they touched each other's
shoulders with your hand so that they become a strange beautiful ornament
fused, turned to the water and floated into it and at depth, as through
the air. I saw them again when they passed in the sun, the very deep
was dropped, then I fell asleep in great sadness, as I have never
known, and as only they can feel in your sleep. It was granted, and the people of New Amsterdam were allowed a government like the
free cities of Holland, the officers to be appointed by the governor. Under this arrangement,
New Amsterdam (afterward New York) was, early in 1653, organized as a city. Stuyvesant was
very much annoyed by this "imprudent entrusting of power with the people."

Stuyvesant was a royalist, and for years he struggled with the increasing spirit of republicanism,
which was constantly growing among his people; but he was not troubled by his domestic affairs
alone; his foreign relations were once more disturbed. Governor Printz returned to Sweden,
and in his place the warlike magistrate John Risingh came to the Delaware with some soldiers
under the bold Swen Schute, and appeared before Fort Cassimer demanding its surrender.

The Dutch residents fled to the fort demanding protection; but Bikker the commander said:

"I have no powder. What can I do?"

After an hour's parley, Bikker went out, leaving the gate of the fort wide open, and shook
hands with Schute and his men, welcoming them as friends. The Swedes fired two shots over the
fort in token of its capture and then, blotting out the Dutch garrison, named it Fort Trinity,
as the surrender was on Trinity Sunday, 1654.

Stuyvesant was enraged and perplexed by this surrender. At that time he was expecting an attack
from the English, and the doughty governor prepared to wipe out the stain on Belgic prowess
caused "by that infamous surrender." On the first Sunday in September, 1655, with seven vessels
carrying more than six hundred soldiers, he sailed from New Amsterdam for the Delaware. He
landed his force on the beach between Fort Cassimer and Fort Christina near Wilmington, and
an ensign with a drum was sent to the fort to demand the surrender. The warlike Schute complied
next day, and in the presence of Stuyvesant and his suite he drank the health of the governor
in a glass of Rhenish wine. So ended the bloodless conquest. As
  an iron ball, which is ignited by from
  the fire, so permeates the Brahman the
  whole universe inside and outside with
  its light shines by itself. "

He spoke softly and solemnly. It was as remembered a thousand years of spirits his sinking light,
and for the first time I was overcome with a dark force at the mourning the lost India. I realized
the futility of anxiety in clandestine struggle, in which this man next to me, as to his fate,
was involved, and my desire fluctuated uneasily between the value of the old and the new world.
Mangeshe Rao seemed to my knowing mind, because after a while of silence he said in a lighter, almost
bustling Tone:

"It is depressing to have to recognize that all we
at great sacrifice for the welfare of the enslaved people have won,
again and again as the occasion of his distrust is.

When I I decided to visit the college in Madras, I was out of my community Caste outcast, and when
I successfully applied for an influential position among the enemies level, I lost the last confidence
in the closest circle of my friends. And yet we have Indians no other way to fight with England.
Today suppressed in India, the political power, the freedom of the mind, but it will soon
come so far that even here, as elsewhere in the world, the spirit of the rule compete. This decline
in England India begin. The discerning know it, and it starts a strong current, the We investigated
diminish the rights granted again, for England feels, where it grew us where is not. But how
bitter it is to have to learn in such a struggle that our own Country people, whose welfare
is our effort to turn against us. "

I have to think later often these words, as the fate of my friend is fulfilled had, I remembered her
as a definite idea of ​​his fate.

Between the palm trees glistened the colored sea. We came to the incineration
sites for the Dead past.

A pile of wood was stacked for the oncoming night, and the body lay, with artfully broken links,
added nearly square, naked little at the stake. Numerous sites around ash revealed the celebrations
of the past days, and suddenly remembered I smell that strange tormenting fire on certain nights.
In the smoke of the burnt Flesh rose up souls to nirvana. I looked at Mangeshe Rao. Behind this
quiet End the terrible burning hope that the rebellion would soon be howling through the streets.

A
leprous beggar crawling on all fours on the way to go to red, he had kept hidden in the undergrowth
to escape the stones of his pursuers, and now he barked hoarse, and
his head turned to the destroyed cheeks as fooled by the madness of
his misery.

On the beach, the Raven had gathered, their cries alarmed the sun drunken silence. I looked
away when I saw the naked chest of all flesh of man.

"The plague and smallpox have already been introduced," said Rao Mangeshe. He spoke at the way
back no more.

Perhaps he was, like me, drawn by threatening to mind how many enemies besieged his country
and decomposed, enemies, against which no struggle of Was useful. They were the victims of the living
who with age and the tiredness of a People set the decline of morality, vice, misery, and
the creeping disease. -

                  * * * * *

Panja, it was still necessary to warn me, and from the standpoint of his approach He was right.
I calmed him down by force, although his concerns rather in this
case his jealousy, as his care might come from.

"The English fear my friend, Panya.

The worst that can happen to him what is be his exile, and though
I Were this disaster, it would come only with my intentions together,
and we may take place at public expense to Bombay on their own.

"

Panja turned without excitement, almost as sad.

"You do not know the country, sir. Whoever speaks of a danger to you or the Brahmins of England
could face?

Do not you think Mangeshe Rao among the priests of his box so odious,
as the hyena among the jackals?

Their weapons stifle the cry in the throat, under the palm thicket is darkness, in the looks
not a judge. It is said of the cobra, that they were first seen after death has opened one's eyes,
and the caste of Priestly call this snake sacred. "

"What do you mean, Panya?"

I asked, excited, because when this strange and childhood friend of my Indian daily not got
into zeal, he was certainly believe. I had long known that its initial Hatred Mangeshe Rao had
turned into secret inclination, a change that his Jealousy did not
exclude, however, made me more attentive to their concerns.

"I do not know," he replied, "but why should encounter you are in danger? Who would protect you?
An Englishman you can only trust as long as you give him advantages,
and become familiar with his enemies around, he can not hold up for
his friend.

                  Mangeshe Rao might the center, which provides no support, both the
priests and the government think that it a traitor, because in the
struggle for the country no one looks at the heart of man, as you do.

"

"Panya, the joys of life which offer themselves without any danger, I do not care. What do I
receive my limited use is worth. "

"I do not speak like this because I want to" leave you, Panja replied simply. I had him no longer
as serious seen, and thought I pondered my situation.

* * * * *

Mangeshe Rao was less frequent in recent weeks. It was a grueling tension in the air, that
seemed so oppressive as to its cause persistently hid, but the mood of my proposed new friend
in hours of our being together around a lot in serene impartiality. He forgot about our many discussions,
the good loads that its voluntary Duty it was charging. One evening, brought his servant, who accompanied
him, the fur of a Siamese Panthers with that made me a present Mangeshe
Rao.

He wanted me to have a souvenir it should take, and I felt for a moment, as it was a farewell.
My eyes were often on the evening through the deep black of the beautiful coat, with a thousand
memories of the wild rose the thought of the night up in my soul, to the night of India and
the rule of the animal.

That evening, we were about to get some hour of the night on the veranda, was our conversation
the world literature and its most representative. A moving cloud of winged night people gathered
in the light of the lamp, and soon saw the table as a battlefield for a wild meeting of. The
mysterious night was heard in the tropical fever love their countless Creatures, and the moon
shone white in the bright leaves.

It touched me strangely enough, that Goethe's name, by the seas and
worlds of his German Home separately, of course, sounded as though
he had long been the intellectual property of all inhabited world.

The opinions of the Brahmin on the great work of his life that he my youthful enthusiasm was
held out, oddly enough to me to always remember to stay.

"Goethe," said Mangeshe Rao, "is so much the teachers of the German people in mind and Claim made that
it must drop your countrymen very hard about its meaning, the pedagogical action also needs to assess,
as most like his eyes it looks, and the superior authority of its appearance is linked to no
tradition, could provide a benchmark.

Most recently, he, like all great and the extent of his creative power be classified, and
in this regard, we Friedrich Schiller appears as the major Champion. "

                  We came to talk to Dante, whose high moral claims he praised and he
loved everything, to Shakespeare, and finally to Kalidasa, Sakuntala,
he's far beyond anything presented, which the great Englishman ever
felt, thought and has designed.

The nature of his approach and the claims in its arguments gave me a strange new and general
image. I had to think with a secret smile to all the "great", which the generation of our
fathers, and with it ourselves in our youth so readily find Spirits have been significant.

Panya was the next day very happy when I told him that I with Mangeshe Rao had arranged a trip
to the country, attended by he should, and some days last and lead
us in the near Barkur and the waterfalls of the Shita would.

* * * * *

I sat with Mangeshe Rao on fire, on the edge of the jungle in the infinite night. The steppe complained
that their voices and moved my soul to desire and mourning. I have the rare star seen again as
bright as in that memorable night, to me many ideas: the taciturn man spoke, remains unforgettable.
Panja was already asleep in the tent, which he did in fact whenever he thought he was dispensable,
and from the dark shadow Jungle forest resounded in the vicinity of our fire the grass pulling
the grazing steers and the snorting of their nostrils to the ground. The moon had not yet risen,
but it was light in the distance, under the stars.

Mangeshe Rao had after the evening meal in silence, the self-rolled cigarette by cupped hand smoke,
and we certainly would have that night, as in so many others, without many words to calm down,
if we would not have startled a strange incident. A the grazing ox his harness was still in
part, began suddenly in a peculiar Art shake. It seemed to me this sound is only unusual in that
Mangeshe Rao suddenly quick succession threw two handfuls of twigs on the fire, so that a high
pillar of flame rose into the night, in the blue glow under the World for a short time darkness seemed
to sink and the surrounding area lit up like a red room. He got up and walked gently on the animal,
the hanging box, mounted on the barrel, as he always Indeed, lurking trail and, and I followed
with mine. There is little danger in India, we see clearly near and which to oppose quiet,
this wait- and gebärdelos Sudden doom makes a part of the great horror that leaves no one
in the Indian wilderness, meaning that the premonitions are developed. How little the single event
that has threatened my life or my friends, it in Reason was that shocked me, but how much more
it is the uncertainty of his incomprehensible Approach was, I'm from
the fact that today a group of palms or the sultry breeze of a greenhouse
can shock me deeply.

With the feathered form of hard Green of a palm leaf is permanently linked me any idea of
​​death while I movements Watching a snake with no other emotion can, as in that which their
beauty nature and cause. After an encounter with a Hindu Muslim in a narrow Street of Bombay,
who fired a shot at me, me either before the men of his People before a firearm even a shadow
of concern remained, but still For years I was horrified the barely audible sound of bare
feet on a stone floor. I remember me from this incident hardly sensitive to something, as
in this dull, quiet 'Tap Tap' with which it began behind me.

And that would have that night at the desert edge of the certainty that such a panther our Stock
prowled, do not excite me so, how soon the idea of ​​doubting somewhat vain, sometimes of monstrous.
May call each one, as he will, we found our steers in a strange paralysis
cramp, he shook so violently that his dishes rang incessantly, and
could not be persuaded to go near the fire, in which We slip into
the cause may have his plague research.

Suddenly said Mangeshe Rao to me that I stand still and not stir a step should, but I did not come to
follow his counsel, because the huge animal umsank and silently on the floor in terrible contortions
and died in wheezing snort. The fire was back on a modest flame fired back, and I saw the white giant
of the dead animal in the starlight in the grass and behind him the
vastness of the blue desert country.

The Brahmin seemed the cause of this sudden death to know, for he
was looking attentively and consciously as after the confirmation
of a fixed adoption.

At last he spent a greater Span around the campfire, and showed me the light of the smoking
flame a tiny, dark-edged Tiny hole at the mouth of the dead animal.

"This is the cause," he said slowly in an important, little more than emotion was, "it is the bite of
the cobra. I believe that the grazing animal disturbed the snake in the grass added. "

It took me a shiver, the sustainable effect, I understand very little time could, but whether
there is a human or an animal had succumbed to the poison, it seemed to me in the face of
spoiled food at my feet without decisive importance. I was seized by the fear before the cobra
again, and the face Mangeshe Rao in his seriousness reflected this reverence again, like an
ancient memory of his race to a sublime divinity that no Enlightenment had been able to affect.

Through this experience it may have been that our thoughts and conversation temporarily Concept of
death touched, and what it is I stayed indelibly in the memory, I want to tell. After a while
we sat by the fire, which this night is no longer went out. A strange restless man had come on
the left, it made me feel sadly, in his inner struggle between his wise thoughts and his blood
inherent knowing tradition of looking at his priesthood. I can still see his upright sitting
Figure before me as clearly as any words they can zuzutragen the consciousness of another, the red-drenched
silk turban on the forehead and thoughtful eyes, the small, almost dainty shoulders and bowed head,
who took a stance when speaking, as examined the eyes to read the thoughts of the hands resting on
his knees. Sometimes he lifted one of the skinny light brown hands, if he was, a special word
weight to give. I have never in life again with a man in the heat and passion talk about important
issues of our soul, with as much composure and decency so fine could finish his opponent. He
once told me: "You have an opponent of looking at your his office does not help the fact that
you break it, so it will take him often Opportunity to prove how little he has to say. "Actually
was his mockery of remarkable Awkwardness of the presentation, and
his sharpest evils he said kindly.

He enjoyed Never seen the triumph of his superiority and spoke most fervently when his opponent had
to get over a defeat. Truly sensitive but failed to mention his own way act on minds, who felt
that he had abstained in order to convince them and why.
In Mangalore I visited him one day when he front of his house on
the dirt floor in the shade of palm trees playing with a priest of
the Jesuit establishment chess. Certainly he was talking by that he
played, but he won in the opinion of his partner at the same time
in that he maintained.

"I am not sick," the new-comer answered, rising to his feet. "I was thrown by the sudden lurch
of the ship; but it will soon be over."

"I trust so," groaned the seasick man by the hencoop.

"But the sea runs high," the old man said, "let us go in."

John Stevens, who had partially recovered from his seasickness, went into the cabin with the
stranger. He had formed no acquaintances since coming on board the vessel and was strangely
impressed with this old gentleman. Men cannot always brood on the past and retain their senses.
John Stevens was not a coward, yet the helpless condition of his wife and children made him
dread danger. When they were seated he said:

"You do not belong at Jamestown."

"No. I am from London and know no one at Jamestown."

"You came in the last ship?"

"We did."

"You did not come alone?"

"No; my daughter Blanche came with me. She is all the child I have."

John Stevens remembered to have seen a very pretty girl on the streets of Jamestown, and for
having praised her beauty, his wife had grown insanely jealous and given way to one of her
outbursts of anger. 

For any detail that touched our conversation was to see so far that my Guest is only incidentally
about politics troubled, and even the slightest interest in being of the country to its economic
or social situation was. I was temporarily in doubt whether the collector is not in his assumption
was in error and the innocence of his supposed opponent had held the highest art of dissimulation.

The sun drove her colorful game in the quiet room, the visit was sitting in the subdued light,
and his Sight filled me with respect to the delight of the proud host an unusual stranger. The blue
curtain that I had bought the day before adorned the wall of my room as a background, and the
shoulders, the shiny black hair and the muted yellow silk by Turban Mangeshe Rao stood out unreal
and strange on it appeared to me the sight sometimes like a picture from a fairytale world of The
Thousand Nights. Panja, quietly and carefully, brought tea and tobacco, I was not a little surprised
when I saw how deep and solemn He welcomed the Brahmins, who thanked by a glance, without even the
front tilt.

It seemed after a while the host in question and answer go too hastily. The distinguished Indians
have intercourse with the Europeans in very way and had a compound in their Dealing with the
masters of their country accustomed to regard the word as a means to the idea to hide. This
art they have certainly not only in their battles with the Muslim or British conquerors learned,
but they have been deceived too many times, not to be suspicious, to the concealment. How I came
to know later Mangeshe Rao, the frankness of his nature was closer than the adjustment, but
at the beginning of our acquaintance He considered my statements again and again out what they
mean behind the wording want, or what beyond. One day John met him at the gangway, and he took the young man's arm and, leading
him aft, said:

"I want to talk with you."

They sat upon some coils of rope, and Mr. Holmes resumed: "We are going to have bad weather.
I am something of a sailor, and, in addition to my own experience, the captain says we will
have a storm ere many hours."

There was something in the voice and manner of the man which chilled Stevens; but he retained
his self-possession and answered:

"Of course you feel no serious apprehension? The ship is strong and able to weather any storm."

"I believe it is; yet in a storm at sea we have no assurance of safety. Our captain is incompetent
and the vessel has, through a miscalculation, gone a long distance out of her true course. A touch of amber accompanied them, like invisible wings of youth.

Around her neck she wore a double string of red Angola peas, and a
large gold ring, was forged around her ankle, sparkled in the dew
of the ground plants.

When her eyes with the splendor of a thousand years of nightly gloom over the fresh, bright blue
of the little flower bloomed, tended it was when they met a heavenly Shine and an earthly reflection.
But the girl broke the flower is not, but it seemed that she remembered before a delicious
obligation, because their faces revived under a mixed expectation with modesty. On the roots of
the trees by, in soft soil and brown leaves, flowed a stream, its clear water moved swiftly
and silently by sun spots and bush shade. The girl took off her neck cord and hung it in child
care in the thoughtful Betelranken that the hanging branches of the tree with the forest floor
combined, they took off their belts and blinked gaily in the warm light. Only the flowers that
had adorned her hair, let them sleep in the night dark, glossy fullness,
should fade away in it for the glory of her young glory.

The water was eloquent on the joy of her lovely body, it ran through like merry laugh, the light bronze
of this body, which under the touch of nature blessed and stretched in an unparalleled dedication
praised his Creator, the Creator of the forest giants, the sheltered him, the billions of
plants and all animals that, like him, in the fragrant shade breathed,
and the great sun, without ceasing to the welfare of your golden chance
to the patient sent to earth.

On a sunny hill, which was soft padding of moss, put the girl on the Ground down to the warm
air to dry, they were in the light holder Bedachtlosigkeit price, because there are no secrets
from him the body or the soul, and both crave for him. She seemed to melt into the ground, the
pulse of the earth was combined with the beating of their blood, and the flowers in her hair smelled
once more up in the club with the gentle touch of fatigue, which rose like a song from her
womb. The sun's rays slipped easily over the dainty mound of small breasts meaning of the curvature of
the hot links, where they lit up, where they dipped down in secret shadow, all-powerful as the
most powerful ruler who has ever made a world of its own, and with
the grace a lover, happy to overcome the storms of his benefactress.

As in frozen motionless pride, with devotion, the green forest glory looked at the rest Triumph
of creation down, until suddenly in a bird with a bright flutes vine thicket a Song began,
over blessed, almost shrill and terrifying, and close by came a glorified Response. As the girl
stood up, slowly put on her small jewelry again and bent down over the flower, where the blood
of my body had risen, they broke and they fortified them by their
big eyes smiled at the trembling cup, in their Belt. -

How was it
been?

Ah, now I remembered that great flower of brilliant blue I cried all back to mind. I knew this
girl and her flower long ago; It was one of those wasted nights in Bombay, in one of those
nights, the restless and aimless begin, and often pass as bleak, given over to trifles, in which
our high Expectations, the spirit of wine, coated in dry gray morning. But there is no Hopes
that somewhere in our souls and somewhere in our time with that Smile similar gloss to be breastfed,
in which they awaken. Hopes are the flowers of dormant Similar rights, in the twilight of the
idea.

I then had to leave in an hour of the evening the hotel in which I have been days waiting for
a steamer that would take me to Singapore, and was the wide, busy Hinabgeschlendert street
without moving equipment for a night, so, with no other intention, than me to indulge for a few
minutes in the cooler air of the evening and the colorful Road driving watch. But there was no
relief in the sultry air, after evaporating Blasting water, and oil smelled of horses, both the free
breathing disabilities, and the rational thoughts. Often affects the atmosphere as an announcement
of the fever, confusion and encouragement to all sorts of absurdities, and the sufferings of life
of abandonment to ferment it, full of melancholy, little devils collect it the lustful fool
heads for adventure, while approaching the red moon sets the sober sense of all things in veil.
-

I settled down after a while on the wooden table of a street café, and it seemed to me, as I guarantee
anyone who looked at me, something, compassionate superiority. A small, all in a dark cloth wrapped
street beggar held out the brown, open hand, and under her smile,
I suddenly understood the night.

Now it had become dark when I walked on. From the open doors of the bill urged colorful Lights, and the
streets were narrower and the passers-by often. I heard steps approaching behind me and suddenly
fall silent when one of the masked creatures of the night passed by me was, are you still and
watched me, curious, or lusting for a robbery of a clue the restless and insecurity fanned that
held me prisoner and then exaggerated. A Moment I was worried about my life as I knew the danger of this
city area but then I felt as if this, my loved and cared for life, a very strange and indifferent
Thing for me now. It came on very different things, and night demanded their right to Night
of the Earth and my restless soul, after a day of its mystical conversion
Desirous.

The door of a wooden house stood ajar, and when I pushed open, I looked into a narrow Corridor, lit
by dim light was a greenish paper. To the right and Left the lights were attached to the bare walls,
mirrors, the dull, floating star this quiet area on both sides over conjured out thousands of
times in a magical space. From somewhere came a muffled tinkling music of a mandolin comparable,
but to other lifeless and in time often interrupted by a long-lasting tone, a flute could come.
A heavy, sweet smell penetrated towards me, as by fermenting honey deafening and incense, and
he oozed from the slit of a red curtain in the background as from
the wound of an overripe fruit.

When I had stood in this place a little while and listened, opened the low Curtain, and an old
woman stepped hesitantly and seemingly surprising to me. She was withered, and her gray hair
shimmered in the pale decayed colored light of the paper lantern over her head, a yellow scarf
was like a flag wrapped around her body, so that her shoulders and arms and her legs were bare from the
knees down to. After they had recovered from their initial surprise, she smiled at me in fine,
impersonal Warmth, which is people who are hospitable from occupation or habit, and invited
me, after a searching look on my European clothes, näherzutreten. You said a few sentences that
I did not understand, which was found in lightly Will Come and an honorable welcome. As I came
closer without hesitation, they doubled their subjection, and I had the impression that it would
creep me up the stairs ahead, we in the red Twilight climb, I saw only her face close to mine,
during their remaining Body was already ahead. She grinned mischievously and sweet, somewhere timidly
rang a bell; I anxiously followed, without any effort of courage without caution, almost without
any real expectation, and what should happen did happen.

Life was light.

We came to a door covered with colored paper, which concluded the stairs hard, and who silently and easily
opened under pressure from the withered hand of the old woman.

a "kick, sir," she said in Hindustani and pressed against the wall, which yielded and swayed; I had
the distinct impression that we were being watched by all sides. So I groped Now carefully
in advance of the smoke as immersed in cloud blue twilight of a low Room in which I initially,
except for the dying light of a silent moon, just hanging Tapestries
seemed to recognize in some muted colors and strange ornaments.

It glittered against me in matte gold tones and a gentle touch of narcotic wilting Jasmin and
opium tight chest.

I walked with my guide this space to go into a second, yet was smaller and darker, and in which
I first saw only a broad couch, with the multi-colored blankets and
skins and hardly occupied a foot high.

The old man bowed many times, after I, as she seemed to wish it had
made to that storage area, and said in addition, sliding in broken
English:

"I'll get Goy for you, Lord, wilt thou be satisfied."

When I nodded to her with two consenting words, they laughed, happy and proud, been understood to
be.

O, she was a highly educated woman, now she had given evidence of and nothing would have been
able to move them to action, which I think at this about them was
wrong again.

I could hardly see around the room when I was alone, and it all had to be and how come It was
for that night.

In a tiny green light, close to the ceiling, I saw a round table with unlikely thin legs, and
in a red and blue ornaments designed brass bowl that stood out were dry, strange fruit, tobacco,
cannabis and betel. As my eyes had soon become accustomed to the very even, soft light, I saw, as
now the door opened at once with the supernatural clarity of vision, the girl that my Room entered
and carefully closed the door behind him and bolted. She performed so calm and friendly toward
me as if I had her a long familiar guest and greeted me by them to practice the tips of her
hands Kanarese to the brow and bowed deeply. She was totally naked under an infinitely thin veil of smoke-colored
Seidenflor, and their black hair was adorned with gray flowers, and a narrow leather belt from
a faded Ockerrot slept without cramp her body like a ring of rusty metal to its Hips, though
I have a child in front of me thought, but by rounding soft and sweet,
were more even wealth.

This belt was fastened a large flower of bright blue, with deep golden brown cup, she raised almost
unreal and strangely soothing contrast from the bronze of the young body off.

Everything except this fresh flower, had those strange compelling awareness in color, appearance
and movement as only a centuries-old tradition can give them everything but this Flower girls
and supple body.

I do not know if I understood everything in this memorable night of
this child said to me, but I know that we understood each other.

The exclusivity, which the glowing region conjures up, in which the
charm of this girl drew me, banished all small individual interests
and desires that divide our lives and an adversary, and it was only
one goal for our blood.

"Shall I dance?" Goy said, "tell me what please you?"

She danced under the moon, the little green light, the irradiated an entire world. It was heavy
and still as death in this world.

I heard only the soft beat of the feet on the Mats, and when I closed my eyes, I felt the delicate
foot on the heart sources dance of my life. With each new awakening of my eyes seemed Goy-blown
children's body again, he remained a stranger to me and changed like a landscape, which races through
the mind in flight. Now there was silence, and her eyes were smiling woman learn about my
child and eager to:

"Will you not order me, Lord? Said" Goy so slow that I felt as if my heart would under the unspoken
promises her request still, but lurking behind their Submission, without guile, the happy
consciousness of its rule. Now she sat meekly strange light shone from the light, like a large,
golden cat in front of me on the bed deliberately turned papyrus crumbled tobacco and hemp, and as
they mingled into opium, transformed it to me suddenly in a goddess
who causes the sleep.

Goy was, like most women of the Orient, in a way brought up for the
love that episode a horrible fastidiousness, but was above all their
actions a magical Fortunately the sentiment of an innocence, which
had the effect of chastity.

Goy did their duty, and no conscience, as it lives in our hearts with disabilities, their loyalty
to the busy single Pleasure that they knew and dealt out.

I smoked in deep, thirsty trains and fell more and more stunning. The girl was not a moment pass
where she seemed not to surrender, their image transformed incessantly,
she was not any award of its secrets without leaving a new suspect.

"Forget life," she said with a gentle rebuke, apparently my hesitation in mild horror added.
"Am I not beautiful?"

"Yes, you are very beautiful, Goy, more beautiful than any I have seen."

"Oh, no, said she thoughtfully," the pale girls are beautiful.

"She looked with their oversized children's eyes on me back and smiled
when I said nothing.

Her nails were red painted and maintained her hands as her body was with great care.

"People put the clothes does not lie," said Goy, "I believe in nothing than of the love and the
pleasure that comes through them. "

I understood how they thought their words because they stood up as
she spoke, performed intimately and erected in front of me and raised
her arms as if they darreichte a bowl.

Their main darkened the traffic light, so that their shape glimmered in the magical light edges.
But her words moved in my heart in a different way, they took to
shine and inflamed for a wide Travel.

Goy was reading my face.

"Remember," she said, "what must you think? Again, neither time nor day and night. "

"And yet, my sweet this little eternity, not the life more than the young?"

"No," said Goy, and her smile was something incomprehensible convincing, "perhaps for you men,
but not for us girls.

An old woman is worse than a squeezed Mango, with the members of the withers hope, because the
blood loses its voice, the the way the world listened. No child will
be my pleasure.

"

"What can I do for you, Goy? Take everything I have! "

"I take nothing," said the girl. "I've never taken anything. The old woman does. Sage To me that
I am beautiful and that I have blessed you. "

"You are very beautiful."

"You say only one thing, you are ungrateful, or you are from those who have never themselves
can remember as if they were so important, oh, so important! "

She came very close to me and looked me in the eyes, then gently pulled her finger from the
angle my eye on the cheek and around the mouth, sighed deeply, as
she complained, and nodded.

                  

I closed my eyes. The wet flower on her belt approached my face, and I was for a moment as she
lay cold on my forehead.

"What people do you mean?" I asked. I felt as a more colorful the noise, as the clouds Wind soft,
short for me.

Goy pondered and smiled wistfully as she would lose me, then she raised her hand to my End tapped
quickly with the tip of the finger to his temples and said:

"The cold fire there! It is stronger than all the other flames and seems brighter. It fights
with the warmth of the heart and has already wiped out many hearts.

You must always use one to another.

Who will make all obstacles to its resources, spoiling his peace, for the World is full of obstacles.
Where do you want? Our sages smile at you. Then come ', forget! "-

When I left the house, I fell to the sun like a predator.

I stumbled and groped me of the houses along progressing slowly returned
to my senses.

I did not know how much time had elapsed. Lazarus must have felt the world as a god to him Life called
back.

I remembered the details of my experiences slowly, like that of a
deep dream. -

Now it may well have been that a greedy old man led
me and a spoiled child had shared my bed, but I'm afraid of two properties
do not worry so me little, for it seemed at that time not matter how
many things in the judicial Eyes of a world of justice might be worth,
but I came down to how they reflected in my eyes.

But life clouds the eyes of the people with dreams, jokes and tears.

* * * * *

Slowly, I felt now more and more that it got nothing yet on that strange flower, and on their shimmering
blue that seemed strange imperious and still extend to me. Since I was when I awoke again to a new
existence. An infinite weariness complained my limbs, and my eyes were dazed and uncertain
how embarrassed by that bright Azur my dream flower that is now spreading as an endless blue
wall in front of me. I tried with great effort to understand this blue wall. Suddenly I saw
how a very strange object, my hand on my knee, thin and very white.

I tried to lift her, and she obeyed. The indescribable shudder of a very new life could shake my
limbs, they went out of consciousness and falls as Sheaves of light through my veins, wayward
sparks immediately, hot and cold. I sighed deeply to know and still good and well that I said
aloud:

"It's not the old life can be."

As Panja came around a white column paced, which stood out from the blue wall, and stared me.
He was curious as unreal, as he hovered in the air. This is indeed a brown Man with a white turban, I
thought.

"Sahib," he cried as he looked into my eyes. "Sahib, speak."

"Where we are, Panja, 'I asked Matt," what happened to the time, Panya? "

My servant stared at me blankly, and in a significantly again in his face new emerging Afraid
of, but they gave more and more the longer he looked into my eyes.

"Sahib, speak good words," he asked, doubtful and hopeful at the same
time.

Then I became conscious that I had asked my question in German, and I she repeated in English.

Instead
of a reply came from a loud cry Panja and threw himself on his knees
by he think that his arms covered.

Sobbing, he stammered: "Sahib, you will live"

"Where we have come, Panya? What is there for a blue wall? "

Panja got up with a happy smile came to the side and said, "It is the sea. We are high in the
mountains, you look down at the sea. We have you carried up from the swamps, two days and two nights
without sleep and not think we have rested until the light Air came,
the coolness and tranquility.

Look around you, look at the woods! This is the abandoned Bungalow of an English farm. We have sold
the monkeys who took possession of him had, "he paused and looked at me. "Ah, Sahib, now you
are awakened and become healthy, the sense is returning to your eyes and words and the joy
in my chest. "

I saw her weeping Panja and realized that he spoke the truth, and that my spirit from the field of
fever poisons had returned to reality. Then I saw in the distance
Guru Crouching on the floor and stare at me intently with his big
night eyes. There was something in his eyes, which I will never forget.

Only
after days I learned slowly what had happened, for Panya spared me
all, until I asked for it. A large part of our luggage was lost because
people are had to take care of me and get no support were. Panja had
mainly food can take and the suitcases, which he knew to be my most
valuable possessions barges, as well as my arms and a tent. Although
had descended since yesterday and a Pasha pen, to save what was still
to be found, and to ensure that these are still present in a native
village should be accommodated, but Panja had little hope and fear,
that could befall the first storm. He often sat long in silence in
the midday next to my reclining chair and looked at the sky over the
sea and the wide, blue area, the from this height so evenly appeared
as a sheet of metal. Sometimes there was a fine, gray haze over it.
But apart from this concern, the weight, I knew it depressed Another
sorrow, I noticed it at him and wanted to ask not. Only when I got
my first Lighted cigar, Panya smiled sadly and said, "Now you're also
the worst Endure because your strength has returned. "

Elias had
been brought from the Panthers.

Chapter Seven

In the mountains

Panja
examined anew the dilapidated house where a room prepared for me a
makeshift been, was so that he could be close because I spent the
night without fire.

"Will you stay, Sahib to come to the big rain?"

I
knew that it was concerned, and that we would be lost when the first
storm surprised us in the mountains. I unsuccessfully tried the time
since our departure from Cannanore to measure, it might have been
four, five or six months.

Gurumahu was one morning came to me and
had reported homesick. He separated with a heavy heart from us, but
when he reached his village before the onset of long rains wanted,
so he had to now make their way.

I gave him my soldered Tropenuhr
of nickel. That was certainly not in itself a great gift although
they are excited to tick understood and even in dry weather, but went
Guru took it happily receive. He will now see all of you to know that
his heart popular: the seasons, the wind direction and speed of the
stars. -

Often we lack the bare essentials. Panya's anxious eyes
startled me from the deception, in which I gave me the belief that
the beneficial, often cool mountain air and the high-spirited State
of mind as he enjoys Gene end to a hopeful look into the future legitimate.


Taking the provisions and musket they set out for the spring. Here they bathed their hot faces
and refreshed themselves.

"Now let us have food," said John.

The sea-biscuit and dried fish were wholesome, and they ate with a relish. John Stevens wanted
to climb a lofty hill about two miles away, from which he hoped to have a good view of the
surrounding country.

"Can we from there determine what land we are on?" she asked.

"I hope so."

"If there be cities, will we see them?"

"We shall," he answered.

"Have you no hopes nor fears?"

"I have both."

"What are your hopes?"

"My hopes are that this is one of the Bermuda Islands."

"And your fears?"

"That this is one of the West India Islands, or a part of the Florida coast, under control
of the Spaniards."

"Did you hear the captain say where we were before the ship struck?"

"No; he was a most incompetent master, and knew not where we were."

"Whether we are in the land of enemies or friends, it will be better to know the truth," reasoned
Blanche.

"Are you strong enough for the walk?"

She thought she was, and they started on their journey of exploration. One of the guns was
left with the provisions at the spring; but John carried the other.

The distance to the hill proved greater than they had supposed, and before they reached the
base, the sun, sinking low in the heavens, admonished them that night would overtake them before
the summit could possibly be gained.

John called a halt and asked:

"Shall we go on, or return to the beach?"

Blanche gazed on the frowning hills and bluffs before them and thought it best to return. Those
gloomy mountain wilds were terrible after dark, and she thought they would find it more congenial
nearer the wreck.

They returned to the beach. The inflowing tide had lifted their boat and borne it further up
on the sands.

"Will it not be carried off?" Blanche asked.

"No, I have it anchored with a heavy stone, so it cannot be carried out."

John cut four poles and drove them into the ground and spread the canvas over it, forming a
shelter for Blanche. He had brought a blanket from the wreck, which, with some of the coarse
grass he cut with his sword, formed a bed for his charge. A box which he had brought from the
ship afforded her a seat. A shoot-Kalev, [4] a
king's son, was ready to come in pursuit of game by his companions, and had in the forest strayed
so far that neither the barking of the dogs nor the blowing of horns to him managed to bring
a sign. All Call was only his own echo, [5] and started in dense undergrowth. Tired and angry,
the royal youth rose from his horse at last and threw himself down to rest in the shade of
a bush, while the horse after was allowed to look pleased with the lawn his food. When the prince
awoke from sleep, the sun was already low. As it now and again to the cross and the cross the
Seeking ways, at last he found a small footpath, which him to the refuge of the lame old brought.
Probably terrified the daughters, when she suddenly saw the strange man, whose kind her eyes
had never seen before. However, they had had completed their day's work in cool of the evening with
the foreign friends, so that they do not even want to go to bed. And when at last the older
sisters had gone to bed, the youngest was still sitting with the guest on the threshold, and they
did not sleep that night in the eye.

While the two open in the face of the moon and the stars are her heart and sweet talks Cause we want
to look at the fighters who had lost their leader in the forest. Tirelessly the whole forest
was on all sides have been searched through them until the dark the night the search for a target
set. Then two men were sent back to the city, the sad news to deliver, while the others under
a wide knotted Spruce pitched their camp to the next morning to continue searching. The King
had immediately given orders the next morning a regiment to march out on foot and one horse
to have to look for his lost son. The long and wide forest extended the investigation out until
the third day, and then only found in the early footsteps that you followed and thus discovered the
footpath that led to the hut. The king's son was in company not the girl the time seemed long,
much less he had been longing to go home. Before he left, he vowed the youngest secretly that
he come back in a short time and then would it take for better or with violence, with himself
and make her his wife. If were equal, the elder sisters of this appointment is nothing, the matter
came but out and in a way that no one would have suspected.

Not small namely the youngest daughter was shocked when, after the
king's son went away was, on the distaff set, and found that the thread
was torn in the coil.

Although were the ends of the thread in cross knot you tied together and brought the wheel in rapid motion
so busy working in the Kosen with the groom lost time were to provide. Solo an outrageous and
inexplicable fact made the girl's heart tremble: the Gold yarn no longer had its former glory. - Since
no scrubbing helped, no sighing and no wetting with tears, and the thing was not to make amends.
The accident jump to the door of the house, comes in through the window and crawls through
every crack that it unclogged place, says an old wise word, so it was now.


"Heaven watch over and guard my helpless ones at home, as I guard the charge entrusted to me,"
he prayed.

His fire was not so much to keep off the cold as wild animals. The distant roar of the ocean
beating on the shore broke the silence. The low and melancholy sound fell on the ear of the
unfortunate man, and, raising his eyes to the stars, he thought:

"The same stars shine for them, and the same God keeps watch over all. May his guardian angels
watch over the loved ones at home until the father and husband returns."

John's heart was heavy. His fire had burned low, and he had forgotten to replenish it. Suddenly
upon the air there came a half growl and half howl, and, looking up, he saw a pair of fiery
eyes flashing upon him. An animal was approaching the tent. John cocked his gun, aimed at the
two blazing eyes and fired.

In a moment the eyes disappeared, and Blanche, alarmed at the report of the gun, sprang from
the tent and wildly asked:

"What was it? Are we attacked?"

"Peace! It was only an animal, which I should judge to be a fox," assured John.

The report of the gun awakened a thousand slumbering sea-fowls, which arose screaming on the
air in every direction. John listened to hear some animal, but not a growl and not a cry came
on the air. After a few moments all was quiet once more, and he begged his charge to retire
to sleep, while he took up his post as guard.

CHAPTER VI.

THE ISLAND OF DESOLATION.

     I am monarch of all I survey,
       My right there is none to dispute:
     From the centre all round to the sea
       I am lord of the fowl and the brute.

Next morning Stevens went to find the animal, at whose eyes he had fired during the night;
but it was gone without leaving even a trace of blood behind it. The boat had sustained some
damages during the night from the surf dashing it against the rocks; but he managed to reach
the wreck with it, where he quickly mended the seam started in its side.

He brought away a cask of fresh water, a chest of sea-biscuit, some Holland cheese, wine, salt
pork and more dried fish. I woke up in the glitter of the sun spears, through the flowers and Palm feathers
in my room, fell under the fragrance of the tea, the Panja me in my bed brought, and my first
expectation was the green damp land cigar, which, thick and long been like a greenhouse asparagus,
wrapped in leaves was best. The golden days went around with butterfly hunts and boat trips,
the fresh sea or in the deep shadow of the Palm thicket, between wise and foolish humans or animals,
on horseback or on foot spent, and always in that ineffable exaltation, which enters the consciousness
of all respected or feared, to be sure, but regarded as something quite extraordinary. sank until
the cool evening, with the singing of the people wandering the ghostly light the great fire-flies,
the sounds of the Blessed love animals, and whether I have the white nights of the Glow of the
mighty moon spent alone or not, I will not say because there are too many people who These
kinds of considerations raises serious concern, and no one should Cause for concern, at least
by the memory of his own pleasures.

On this very large area must be advised Panja in serious afflictions, a Morning, he poured
his heart out. It had a very special reason and the reason were two long scratches that ran
down from the eye down his cheek, and their origin guessed so much easier, had he been away
for the night was over.

When he saw that I looked at his face as he prepared breakfast, he said regretfully:

"These spikes, Sahib! We do not know how to avoid them in the dark,
it's time I re-creating the garden.

"And we complained for a while with each other through the thorns.

"Sometimes two sit side by side," I said, "like the fingernails of
one hand."

Panja eyed me suspiciously, but I was serious, he said hesitatingly:

Yes, even that, it comes from all sorts. "But then he had to become aware of a smile , and that
he jumped up angrily, stamping her feet and cried:

"So you know
it, Sahib!

Fine, but what is this better? Is it nice of you, someone to ridicule that has already harvested
ingratitude? "

I reassured him and told him a consolation, he was seriously bitter and far from even a shadow
of blame for this disaster to look at themselves. Since he became melancholy, as good-natured people
with a bad conscience will be easy if one of their other crimes pushes.

"Scratching the women of your country, too?" He asked, as he was my understanding from my unproven
Experience derived.

"And how, Panya! Themselves and others. "

"Scorn not," he begged, "these are serious matters, and if I wait for sleep, it must I think too
much about it.

"And he squinted into the morning sun, the green fire in Palm grid
inflamed, and then reflected thoughtfully in a round copper pot that
he be Image may have similar returns as the world looked like his
thoughts in his head.

"Why do not you marry?"

I asked him. It was a moment.

The cries of the Traders and a crier sounded from the bazaar over
to us, and the branches in the bushes rocked in the morning walk of
some larger animal.

"Maybe a monkey," said Panya. You could see he was thinking of something else. "Good," he suddenly
broke busily going on, "I get married, but then what? It is tempting
to know what one to the camp anticipated while you're young.

Belong to the love the curiosity and the danger the permitted Love is like a caged bird. "

I
decided to become a little more serious, and so he said casually:

"If it were only that which you now call it love, Panya could have,
so you're right, but it can , Found that the heart itself everywhere
like a caged bird occurs, except where a particular woman is waiting.

"

Panya was thinking.

"It happens, Sahib, but it will pass."

"Maybe for something else?"

"What should come, Sahib?"

"Perhaps a son."

"Oh God," said Panya affected, "who thinks the same of the worst? But even if I I should be happy
about it, I can not think of a son, if I do not have.

"

"Is that beautiful or forget the memories, Panya? Look around you in nature, where are you like,
and among men, the heart is always with the memory and the truck with from oblivion. If a child
is not the most beautiful memory of the love and the sweetest Companion on the way from summer
to fall? "

Panya moved to his turban, and scratching his awkward, which was always a sign that something fell beyond
his world of sense in his heart was, but it was usually his only Concession to me.

"I'm not a Brahmin," he finally said, "why should I think therefore I am? You only have so beautiful
thoughts, Sahib, because you do not know the women. If you have even taken a wife, so fail
the good thoughts. "

I had to laugh, and Panya triumphed. Now he was the one who taught me.

"Maybe the women of your country different, Sahib, but probably it is with the Women like the palm tree,
across the world it is the same. Have you ever noticed that they
basically are all stupid?

You can do it it will see that they are present in equal measure a Tiger still afraid of a
mouse, for not even between these two animals, they can bring out the difference. They know no distinction
among men, and as the best of them always appears the one they love. "

"Is not that an advantage?"

But Panja was not distracted, "Do you say something really stupid, so they tear your eyes on and
shine, just because it is true, perhaps the most indifferent of the world, you say But something
clever, what would all admire clever, they forget it immediately, just because they can not put
in her hair. Oh, what can not happen!

With time perhaps remove your love, and you come back to rational thought, but then takes their
precisely to the extent of how it is you care. They hung up with everything she invents or finds
such as a miraculous idol until you begin to even such monstrous to think of you, that you will
become a mockery of men. But it is only when your heart hang on to theirs remains, and your enthusiasm
and your efforts make them colder and colder? Give you own everything you have, and without
backing up itself, it begins immediately, according to other to keep men on the lookout. The soul
of such women is like a pit, which is smaller, the more you hinzutut, and the misery in your
home is endless. Oh, you do not know how It even happens to good people! You once said, by giving
no one is poor, but all what a heartless woman is given is lost. "

"That may be correct, Panja," I interrupted his zeal, "but not all women are heartless. "

"Oh, Sahib, as long as you have to love is in your eyes all right, what you spot on a woman"
Panya said sure, "and the evil in it only sparked the zeal of your favor."

Sun continued Panja, I describe a long earthly misery of hearts, the love, or want it, without
it, or do, without meaning to. I told him little but it was clear to me how many men of our time and
our country have a similar Consideration of women have never gone beyond. Panya's intuition
was also undoubtedly the cheerful addition of a child's conception, but it was based on an opinion
which I the thoughtful mind moves, was all too familiar. If I disagreed with him only in passing,
thus thinking I do with my reticence of his youth and the fact that
most men be taught only by experience, and that no one's experiences
are larger than himself Also of looking at this or a similar good-natured
young men serves to caution to their level of resistance may be adjusted.

But

basically it is not good to stay in such views for too long a child, and I have been able to
take the men rarely very seriously, the woman to self- Forces of the mind collusion only because
they are a different kind than that of men, for Superficial only expect hidden lightly to the missing.
Also, it remains sufficiently ridiculous to blame, characteristics of the woman who we can not praise
enough, as long as their Effectively benefit ourselves. The sooner the emotional and intellectual
life of a woman related with their properties is a character, the more certain it is, even
without external Experience to make the choice that matches their values. This value but will,
at its Decision not to show their ability to compare men to meet
each other can, but in their resistance.

Many a morning was in thoughtful conversation and mindless trivia game around, the sun blessed
us this earthly zone began slowly to resistance to excel in loyalty and strength. How might some taken on
the trip, asked It also me, in excess of the Sunday freedom, now often after the autumn of that greater
freedom in the Spirit, which is granted us in our best whole tension
forces.

But this climate does not allow our blood to the seriousness of our
race, not the attachment to Activity, it is peculiar, and at least
the tendency to engage in continuous work.

Uncounted our people are as long as the history, knows the temptations
of the southern sun died, almost imperceptibly, incurably addicted
to candy did without pleasure, and only after they lose vitality startled
at that homesickness in the glory days of the soft to a voluptuous
melancholy was sunk.

Often, when I lay on the beach under shady trees and dream and desire in the blue of sky and
water rocked, I thought of Homer and his hero, who, at the Mast of
his ship tied up with receptive mind, powerless and torn by desire,
to the vaunted Eiland drove by, knowing and immune from the spirit,
the mind mastered who was older than his desire to be executed and
controlled.

I often envied him, and often regretted I him as one whom his spirit has banished the cold
altar of blissful surrender. But in my dreams seemed to me the singing women, and I knew at the splendor
of their alluring bodies the deadly power of their deadly claws.

It drove me in inner restless, outwardly from one to another, I tried to work, burned soon after
the poor beginnings, the incompetent attempts at glory me to capture her in words and figures. Lit the
golden morning sun her green fire in the bushes, which enveloped my window, so my senses immersed
in the idea of ​​perfection below, which reduced each man's work to vain and ephemeral trinkets,
there was only freed unit in reverent devotion.

Panja watching me anxiously, and one day he said:

"Sahib, why do not you burn your paper before you describe it?"

Well, that annoyed me. To such a question a servant has no right.

"Fool," I said, 'Do you not know that you write down thoughts on paper can, and that if both
are simultaneously combusted, the thought of a smoke in the heads of Draws people that we want
to convince you of our opinion? "

Panja opened his eyes and was silent awe. He had not yet known. After some Time I caught him
that he burned in the garden, under suspicious jumps a letter and went away with the satisfaction
that it disappointed hopes for his insubordinate Question would punish.

Including the representatives of the German Mission in Mangalore, I was briefly in contact with
it are working and serious people who deal in small industries that
had gone over the natives and the human struggle with the representatives
of Hinduism formed only occasionally and always unsuccessful venture.

They lack education and knowledge, and above all respect for the Brahman or the teachings of Buddha,
and the silly belief that it here to do with "dark heathenism" to
have is the best way for a thorough failure.

I have strange people in these Missionaries and mission met with women. What they claim a finer
always fatal though, is its deliberate restriction and exclusivity in a world view, that active
force remains unproven. It is easy to be right, if you only themselves Comrade or opinion heard,
and the ridiculousness of such phenomena based on the fact that their Simplicity associated
with its grandeur and delicacy with lack of tact.

A striking feature of what such people in case of doubt can be seen soon is their ability to have a say
over all things, to judge them or judge, without that they had ever taken the trouble to understand
it as well. By nature, combined with such a position of looking at a particular affection for
the downside of Things that are everywhere, as well as in humans, easily recognizable, clear and
without complicated expression or versatile styling presents. And we find in the rule that
self-consciousness of these people in it wont raise that they the dark side otherwise minded
brothers or distant things first, or even exclusively discover, and since it is easier to criticize
something than to understand something, we find this Self-consciousness, almost every hour
food and developed to the most luxurious. Panya said even after we had our first acquaintance behind
us:

"These men are like the king of Schamaji always prevail, but you do not know why or by whom.
"

Truly modest request not secretly Thanks for your condition, and it is always a little embarrassing
when the servants are, therefore for something special, because their government has done something
great. Nevertheless, mine is a proof provided intimate power of belief been, and I by the significant
words, which I sent ahead of these people I would like to come reluctantly into the forbidden glory
to sit in the seat of mockers, will I can follow the story as I heard
it:

In a prayer meeting of this small Christian community arose recently
completed a Mission woman the darker the provinces of the otherwise
so blessed Kingdom of Wurttemberg came and their relationship to the
simplicity in the fear of God something really extraordinary provided.

She said after a short prayer, performed in such meetings, the loud and general being, maintains
that it has pleased the Lord God in his inscrutable, their sitting next to her, already grown-up
daughter Helene to beat with a tapeworm. Then they invited the community in sorrowful Advertise
end of inclined to implore God to plead with her and her child together for the elimination of unpleasant
parasites. Her request was granted readily, and men and women employed the Assembly a reasonable
time before God in deep prayer with the tapeworm of the young Lady and the career that was hoped
for the future of this remarkable animal.

At the end of the meeting in a friendly in the hall assessor said that in their Privately held by
an effective means of territory find the energetic band, a worm does not resist in a position,
and this drug was accepted with thanks.

  Even in the next meeting, the
  mother could drawn attention to community, make the disclosure, on
how wonderful way the force of the common prayers have been effective
with their daughter.

You told those assembled in an agitated voice, that the tapeworm
has come, apparently already asleep in a state that is expressed,
but a great peace in his face have. -

That God's hand visible presides
over the well-being of this self-sacrificing people, is also from
any other, no less strange story to me by one in Mangalore very experienced
and been told in the heath service man is tested.

                  When this gentleman stayed at the beginning of his career on a beautiful
evening on the porch of his house, saw He suddenly a tiger, the emporkam
the stairs from the garden.

God gave the distraught man However, one time a good idea that led to salvation. stood on the
terrace Fortunately, the last of her children's education in the outdoors, nor the harmonium, a particularly
pietistic religious circles quite popular devotional instrument in Indian missions here and
there will use, although it withstand the effects of climate rarely able. On this instrument
the man threw the uneasy and began in confident Believe in his chances to play the famous beautiful
hymn:

How shall I receive you And how can I meet you?

The Tigers should have immediately removed in order to seek the protection of wilderness.

* * * * *

One afternoon, when a dealer of his colorful cashmere brass vases and embroidery on my porch
to show spread, a messenger came from the city and stayed on the nature of the native Humble
servant to the staircase to the stairs, waiting for a title. It came to many small messages
for Panja or the cook, as I particularly noticed the stranger, he cleared his throat discreetly
after a while, and when I looked over, he put his hand to his forehead
and bowed a second time.

So it went to me and I waved to him.

"You get me situated," I said, "how much value in your opinion of
this gold painted curtain, you are impartial, tell me.

"

The stranger examined the cloth and work carefully, but it seemed as if he is besänne thereby meet on
a way forward, both mine and the claim of the dealer. Then He said:

"I do not know the value of this work exactly, but I know Chundar Dewan, the merchant, up the
use, and knows that he is fair and prudent. "

"If he were not, so he could" learn it from you, I said. The answer
I liked, I looked closer and the newcomer. His attire was carefully
and well and without Following the European dress, the red turban
was made of silk, the white waist cloth broadly defined, and it was
enough like a long bloomers, to the knees, a short jacket of dark
cloth, as part of Persians in Bombay, covered his chest and arms.

"And
you yourself? What brings you to me? "

"My master asks you expect
him to-morrow at this hour, he thanked the foreign Sahib for his request.
"

"You are the Brahmins Mangeshe Rao service?"

"My Lord is Mangeshe
Rao Bahadur."

The silent slave was given a silver rupee, my heart
was with joyful surprise. Actually without any real hope for the success
of my effort I had followed the advice of the collector and the Brahmins
had addressed a letter if he was willing me lessons in Sanskrit and
to give in the history of his country. I did have felt in recent weeks,
I would have to me by my frivolous intrigues in the city the confidence
of this serious Politician and diplomat have forfeited, for I noticed,
as I both different from The English behaved, and the customs of the
missionaries is not just the model selected. "Had you economized with the money your husband left, you would not be in
such sore straits."

Mrs. Stevens was shocked and indignant. She wept and asked for time. Ann Linkon, who had never
forgiven Dorothe Stevens for the ducking she had caused her, now boldly declared that she had
all along told the truth and, shaking her gray head, repeated:

"She is a hussy. She hath driven John to sea and perchance to death. She is a hussy."

No one attempted to prevent Ann's tongue from wagging, and to the unfortunate Dorothe it was
quite evident that she was no longer the favorite of Jamestown.

"When John comes back, all will change," she thought; but, alas, the months crept slowly by,
and John came not. There came a rumor which time confirmed that the Silverwing was lost. Dorothe,
who was of a hopeful nature, would not believe it at first, though the news had a very disastrous
effect to her credit. She was refused at every shop and store in Jamestown. In her distress
she sold such articles as she could dispense with; but Jamestown was only a frontier hamlet,
it had no such conveniences as pawnbrokers and secondhand clothiers, and what few articles
she could dispose of were sold mainly to freed or indented servants at ruinous prices. They ran away in the distance, leaving a glance in the steaming,
black shimmering distance of. The jungle seemed like a thick green blanket the angle of a huge
chamber with brown walls, and the morning sky above was glass clarity.

The western of the two steep rock walls was up to half as a dark red painted against the moonlight
glimmered in the countryside. I stood, transfixed by this image, in view absorbed there. At the
same time with the hope that now overcome the most difficult part of our trip would be, I believe
the benefits of a quiet, cooler feel to the wind, and my Delighted with the golden eyes slid
Glutbahn of morning light on the rock wall there.

Halfway up the wall, close to where she shared the sunshine, was a hollowed-out Rail horizontally
through the rock, which one would have for an old sea border can not keep. She looked like a
covered walkway, and I also have been feasible for the most part, led at half-dome-like caves over
and scattered palms and Aloëstauden granted support. Before the largest of these caves was
a small rocky plateau, no larger than about the space to an old linden tree is able to shade in
the midday sun, and at the edge of this ledge There was something in the sun. I remember clearly
that even before the impression that my Eyes captivated me was some penetrated into consciousness,
even before I thought about what that yellowish quiet be something like a subconscious, like
a foreboding awe me banished. But then I knew it suddenly cleared up, as if by a loud shout,
and also though I still figure and drawing quite different: the tiger.

It

has been the only time I saw a tiger in India in freedom have. I leaned against the trunk of
a tree, closed his eyes and opened them and saw up like a man who believes himself betrayed
by his eyes. I will never the light brown Rock walls remember the morning light in the stone dome,
and before her, as on a marble base as a throne, under the protection of the stone canopy, the
figure of the Sphinx resting Tigers. The distance and the height of the cliff made him seem small to
me, but I could distinguish the drawing of the skin clearly and saw the paws resting side by side
with the terrible head which motionless like chiselled, the sleek line of the back and the wide
neck perfect and his eyes seemed focused in the distance. An unparalleled majesty went from this
glowing monument to nature.

It took me a sadness that I will never quite get to understand, but I know that my hands were
clenched and trembled. At that time I covered for the first time the beauty and size of the
Egyptian Sphinx, this most powerful stone monument, the spirit and Knowledge of man have ever
created in the light of the claim and of awe. The Concepts of divinity, nature and humanity are
in their multiple contradictions in this form together a work of art, which is the inexorable
sweet with hope combines the ambition with the grace, the risk with the desire and the deity with
the Game. And not only by the distance which separates us from the statue, but itself, and
for all times of the past and future, the Sphinx, the huge monument the history is, that history,
which over the certainty of a large development, each Memory of details and events seems to despise
and wish only in raised stone the thousands of measures, which durchpocht the human heart in
the unchanging pulse.

The sight of this big cat resting in the sun, high in the rocks of freedom, on the restless
seething bed of the many small creatures and plants of the jungle was wearing my continuing spirit
of the fate of the times, back up to the most ancient stone reminder of mankind. To me the wonderful animal
appeared in his loneliness, like a later descendant of a lost Time, even in the gloomy shadow of parting
his strong race from the earth the people to whom it has with many long-forgotten character
must give way.

But here was the kingdom of his rule. In the morning sun sparkled his stone Throne, and the awakening
jungle, deep royal quenched at this rest, the horror before such majesty. Poor, tired and
powerless snuck a few little people down through the protecting green,
and among them I tolerated and intimidated by the rule of the animal.

                  

* * * * *

When I tried to sleep in a tent in the evening, I discovered through
the trees gaps in the sky a reddish glow, which could not come from
our fire.

I went out and checked around the space, so well I succeeded. The moon was only towards the
morning on, I saw that the whole sky glutete, and woke Panja.

Burning "The plains," he said after he had looked around, and sucked the air through the Nose,
but the windless night was not wearing a burnt smell to us.

"The mountains burn," he repeated, half asleep, die "a thousand animals, including the harmful
ones. The mountain Malabar set fire to the remains, which the sun has left behind, often the
fires also occur without anyone knows who she has created.

"

The Glutschein increased and spread an exciting, dull light in the night forest, the voices of
the animals seemed isolated and muted sound too, like eating in awe outside the dominant element.

"It's
not howling, the fire," said Panya and listened, creeps pretty calm there on the heights. "

He
went back down to rest, there is no danger threatened us, but sleep had fled from, I had just
been searched without faith. I saw in the spirit of the red, waving flags fire flutter over
the endless gray-green hill ranges in the blue night, and I was like listening I vote and overtook
the fleeing creatures, in the dispute over the ownership of the mountains,
the people on the battlefield of an incessant struggle went through.

Towards morning, the moon would shine through the smoke, to slow the sun's golden ridges of the
mountains in their rest of the moving image inflamed, there it was quiet, the eternal wars were
there long ago noisy.

In the gorge called an owl, always long, as if from deep chest tones hervorgehauchte, in large
Distances from one another, sometimes in a dull existence as fear, sometimes, as in love pain.
When the red Slip increased, he fell silent, the canyon was silent, the dark walls in the
red mist lonely again, and the deserted night marched on, glowing in the fog.

It was a silent alarm in the lazy luxury of the withered forest and the spirits of the Decayed
came over from the past in the areas of my memory and began to talk to me. Everywhere lay about
on keen senses in disease of holes, caves and green chasms staring masks the insatiable greed
and irritated weariness at each other, in the steep bamboo slept
the wind, Fallen like a poisonous gases to wobble accommodated Moths.

The impatience of the ground, to limit the adverse Nipped sweet nature, divided the blood of
the being with, but nothing worked anymore, no shouting and no action, no comfort and no anger.
Only in the water or in the fire rescue was to be found. Panja had not just been I said, the
steppes inflamed themselves?

It complained mat in the living silence, a bird, a forest animal or a falling tree a sigh, leaned
into the muddy bed of his generation. I listened to the rattling Whispers of decay, in which
the voices of the Sunken my mindless thoughts Forgotten your area led back. The spirit of
the fever shimmered me angry, with green Eyes again to, and I felt
enveloped by death and abandoned him irretrievably.

I felt strangely numb in confusion of abandonment that I have not dying had learned, I longed
fervently for action, and efforts to fight, and my Anxiety was highest in memory of this warm, stifling
withering of the blood, as around was asked.

Was it because my eyes on the day the sovereign ruler of the jungle had seen that I the courage
and strength to their right to life was no longer apply? The afflictions in which nature was
and is my soul from hour to hour insistent and writhing told, yes, that I threatened to succumb
completely aroused, in fact my Thoughts a nagging sense of guilt. What feelings and Understanding
sought in Not all the blame not first in his own breast? The knower are responsible they are
the ones who bring the truth and carry the victim reparation, both
small and Great.

I had the grief and size is not the old rulers of this country shuddering violence seen and awesome
answer to my way as a contemptible interloper, and Heart guilty of arrogance?

If I closed my eyes, I felt as if urging the relaxation of the withering Blight world from that
place over to me, which I between the bluish arms sting Aloes of the yellow body of the dead
Panthers had seen, then again dipped the drenched, stone dome in my mind on that as a golden shining
canopy of the throne Protected animal. The tiger was appointed to rule in these areas, it poisoned
the Mists of the jungle not the fire in the tropical sun was his
tough body with the iron Strands of the tendon for relief, he swam
across the swift currents to be refreshing, as in the game, and wandered
through the desert for days without risk and without troubles.

As in both depressing and frightening sense fluctuations in the approaching fever both confusion
and the supernatural clarity of vision bring, seemed to me that might be impossible to back
that boundary too far away, on which the change should have the reign of animals and humans place
on earth. As had intimidated my senses proved the folly of Menschenhochmut, in the frivolous
Safety of his fragile city, his authority and his rule over-estimated. And I was again, as
would replace the spirit of this country and its ancient peoples to me and persuaded my heart.
I realized a teaching that honors the animal worship, and never kills guess whose religious consciousness
and a deep commitment to the relationship being of the animal, allows and inaction in the
patient, the reverent expectancy and the holy humble Harren Devotion praises. As in a dream night
unforgettable time past a monkey in his Triumph overcome prisoner
had spoken to me.

But how does the uncertain inclination to reverence and fear no reassurance, that Peace until
the beaten knowledge falls, it appeared to me in secret Tremble at this hour, when the rule of
the animal on Earth was not overcome, but as they would have, albeit
hidden and cramped, yet in their original Violence and darkness.

With the tired trains Hucs, the monkey, which I began my journey into the frivolous blossomed
over ruins of the old kingdom of God had appeared, was again the spirit of the sunken Time
to myself, and his gray eyes looked at me: "There is still the beast here thee, in pursuit
of its associated nature in which man can not penetrate further is, when a bark beetle in a tree,
hidden there in the upright figure, among the white skin, behind the forehead clever and beautiful
eyes. the transformation is taking place under this shell is still not fast and easy? Not only on
battlefields and in the confusion the inflamed pile, even in silent chambers or in open markets,
among the piles of torture of saints, or flattery of the sweetest speech? There is still the animal.
The sages of the Earth tremble at its world paths under the roar
that is heard about them when they haste, ruffled dress, traversed
with wounded hope their time.

"

With fiery steps the night crept sluggishly, the sky glow of the burning steppes gradually died
out, but it was when he had left a more heat, still was not a breath to feel the approaching dawn. In
vain I searched the sky after the Morgenstern, and the gloomy weather
with clouds, the thronged approach such misgivings in the hot universe,
next to me started the monotone voice of my fear again:

"The animals
there.

When the morning announcing, so your blood will be off, you shall Choking in this sultry, green
jacket. not "My pain was created by the thought the death of my body, but through this dark
idea of ​​the domination of the animal and by the hopelessness in which I, on the edge of insanity,
was looking for a way out after a redemptive certainty for the light of the future. As the
doubters of his life Beloved by researching suspicious for evidence of their guilt, against his
better will, yes, almost against his conscience, my mind explored in these night hours, the
story the world according to the characteristics of the animal, and again the statue of the Sphinx
appeared before me spiritual eyes up. I merged into the old memory of human being and the memories
of my own experiences over time with the appearance of the resting Tigers on the rock wall.
It was as though this phenomenon, from my eyes in the past few days been affected, were in
the mystical connection with the old people fear and awe, an explanatory light bill thrown in
my knowledge of the world, and had that night no human wisdom, and no persuasion to dissuade me
from the path of my thoughts able.

In him, that ancient people of Egypt, had the consciousness of lived
clear that the rule the animal was not overcome, they created in the
cats body incomprehensible organic unity with the human head and human
body with the lion head.

They raised these statues to deities they worshiped in them and recognize themselves in it.

While my thoughts were looking for security, for the ultimate value, the Proclamation of the
truth that the animal was still overcome step, also John, to me over,
who had loved the divinely-wise saints of Calvary, according to the
first.

He, too, which, as any, human dignity and the triumph of his divine master penetrated had,
in the ecstatic foreboding frightened of a future kingdom of the Son of Man, the Animal. In
his last vision, in which fear and hope in the loving spirit broken Body torn, it appeared the
animal:

"And I stood upon the sand of the sea and saw a beast rise up out of the water, which had seven Heads
and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads
the name of Blasphemy.

And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death, but his death Wound was healed, and all
the world wondered after the beast. And they worshiped the beast to saying, 'Who is the beast?
Who can carry with it the war? " And was given unto him, to argue with the saints and to overcome
them, and his power was over all the families given ". -

The seething darkness of the hot jungle darkened monitor my sense that in the frenzy an impending
faint, and my poor thoughts flitted like pale wisps over it.

 The country is said to have
derived the name of the "Old Dominion" from the fact that the Charles might have been king
of Virginia before he was king of England.

In March, 1660, the planters assembled at Jamestown and enacted: "Whereas, by reason of the
late distractions (which God, in his mercy, put a suddaine period to), there being in England
noe resident absolute and ge'll confessed power, be it enacted and confirmed: that the supreme
power of the government of this country shall be resident in the assembly, and that all writts
issue in the name of the grand assembly of Virginia until such command, or commission come
out of England as shall by the assembly be adjudged lawful." The same session declared Sir
William Berkeley governor and captain-general of Virginia. In October of the same year of the
restoration, Sir William Berkeley was commissioned governor of Virginia by Charles II.

No one in all the colony rejoiced more at the restoration of monarchy than did Dorothe Stevens.
Her fortunes had mended. Her husband's brother was appointed governor of Carolinia, and, while
he was acting in the capacity of governor, he managed to secure the fortune his grandfather
had left in St. Augustine. It was large, and fully twenty thousand pounds fell to the heirs
of John Stevens, which was a godsend to the widow, who purchased a fine house in Jamestown
and once more entered the society of the cavaliers and church people.

For twelve years she had been a widow, and now that she was wealthy and the charm of cavalier
society, she began to entertain some serious thoughts of doffing her widow's weeds.

"It's all because of that cavalier Hugh Price", said Ann Linkon spitefully. "The hateful thing
will wed him, because he is rich and the king is restored."

The widow left off her weeds and, in silk and lace, with ruffles and frills, became the gayest
of the gay. The flush came to her pale cheek, and people said she smiled on Hugh Price. It
is quite certain that Hugh Price, after the restoration, was known to be frequently in the
society of his lost friend's wife. But we
are all in the same way, and if we had the sense to appreciate the time and they Past and future
would be able to look at, we would be respectful, humble and more pious. Give her a drink. "

I handed him the glass, which he took with both hands and slowly empty, with closed eyes.

"All good people have the inclination, the animals in their demeanor and nature watching," went
Huc calmly, "it encourages their premonitions of a future completion in emotion and uncertain Believe
in, others are already much further and learn to appreciate the characteristics of plants; which,
although they differ from those of animals, but are no less varied; But when her life will
note the stones? People have lost patience. I have long to live among them and among them not
only suffered, as did you, as you lent me, but I have learned. I got to know their homes and cities,
drove on ships along the coast, so that the forests on the banks to me as fine blue Fog lines appeared,
even a train trip I made, so I know what you're proud. In the company of people I've drawn my
illness, because I have to bring in rain and wind and in the terrible sun without protection
on my post must, to whom I was connected with a chain. You will be my last master. Prost! "

I took a second glass brought to me and gave us both again one. Huc sat still with its old, pensive
eyes in front of me on the table, so that our foreheads as the same amount, were in between two
shiny bottles candlelight. Played for a while it with the colored tinfoil, it tore up and smelled
it. When he did finally come out of the hands was as if he had never expressed an interest, I doubted
for a moment again its meaning.

"You are still" only a monkey, I said, and pulled me up from a dream.

Huc pulled his long tail melancholy by the hand, finally got hold
of the end and asked the round mouth with a start happening to me:

"How
much did you actually drink it?"

I apologized to shame, it was so Huc in law but, as I assumed at the outset had when he saw me
on the shoulder of his young master from his unwavering seriousness
and his superiority had looked sunken.

"Tell of the woods," I asked.

"I mean often," Huc began quietly, "I know the woods just since I've left must, because I from that
day, hour after hour, until late in my dreams I have to deal with them, something I also learned
that the lover even more our property seems to be if we lost it. Everything Small is then decreased,
and me only one bright picture of lovely freedom is left in the mind, it is interwoven with the
white light of the moon over the canopy of trees, with the game of sunshine in the fresh green,
with the song of the nightingale and the smell of the water Flowers, of which there are as
many as our senses are only conceive of colors and shapes can. You'll live longer than me, I will
give you a longing for the forests as an inheritance leave, keep
them.

"

I raised my glass to not drink it as a sign of confirmation again to empty, but Huc longer. He
clung to a bottle that was only a little smaller than he, as you
could colorful sparkle in the candlelight warm him, and said, monotonous
and seemingly without Continued enthusiasm, smiled his face, nor will
they betray grief.

"It was on a spring morning when I was captured, my home is far from here, in the jungles of
Mangalore, the old priest seaside town. I got to a rice field in a sling, which was established by
the people, and led me into my fate when I realized that the hemp rope was unbreakable, which is around
my arm and shoulders had set. Two boys dragged me into a wretched hut, made of mud walls and
palm leaves between the hanging roots of a wild fig tree had been erected. It smelled Sandalwood and
burnt cow dung and was so dull and dark, long time that I saw little. When I awoke the morning after
the first night, I saw the sunshine on the banana leaves before the narrow window, thinking
of the Companions of the freedom that now, as once I, too, rocked to the tops of the Arekapalmen
in the morning breeze and watching the cranes, standing on the sand islands in the shallow
water of the river and fished. When I mean Eyes closed, I heard the water rushing and the
voices of reeds on the shore. I heard the mating calls of the wild pigeons in the dense foliage
of the woods and saw the pass Panthers sneak through the reeds to drink. He moved between the
sun spears lines and shadows of the tall reeds, as sun and wind played with shadow and light,
and no one will recognize it if it does not reveal his hoarse wheezing, or his steaming Breath,
which is heavy with the smell of his blood at night robbery. High above me was singing the Milan
his bright hunting call in the blue, after peering prey, as he poured of gold hovered small
and blissfully cool in the morning high above the wild, green sea of ​​jungle. I sat shoulder
to shoulder with companions in the red early sun on high, breathing the beautiful air, and felt
the silent movements of the many plants under me, which stretched up to the sun. You would learn
the sad and sweet sound of to hear open flowers, if you had lived with me in the jungle, you
could smell the the first breaking up of wilting touch of distinction, and the lustful urges,
the yearning buds, and the devotion of this patient, the desire and need of their spring Trembling.

But
what you is not everyday all important and how many it is trifling later on, when the contemplative
communion with the life of nature.

We are monkeys with you thoughtless as a useless people that bring nothing clever about and
his Days fritters away. But how much do you know the happiness of our free life in the sun or
Moon shine in the white, seething night of our community with the innocent fate thousandfold the
creatures of nature? Do you think we are doing not for a single hour peaceful community with
the lucky trinkets then the whole of the forest, for whose ye behaving your hurried day long so
important? The truth is that we are your being does not have us by the earthly existence is
not luck, and have you got in the temporal a different goal than happiness? You laughed at us if
you have taken away our freedom, and forget that we are nothing without them. Only the lucky
get to know a being truly because happiness is the precondition for well-balanced self-consciousness
and the self-consciousness is all that is great. "

"What's the big monkey came from you?" I asked.

Huc pulled his shoulder up and his face was gray and old, as if thousands
of these Trains that passed away, he got something of an Egyptian
mummy and a little melancholy at the same time Animal-like of indescribable
threatening seriousness.

"Can therefore only ask a person," he said wearily.

"Still believe it, add some of nature to, and thinks they have created something in order to remain.
Your perpetual inventory has nothing to do with your works, and as long as you think back to
you in the pursuit redemption it only proves that you do not know what is salvation. The large,
the right self-consciousness arises, is not the work of human hands, but the love of all created things
of nature. "

"What do you know of God, you monkey," I said.

"It only matters that God is something I know," replied Huc, "and
he does it.

Unhappy are only those which God does not remember. "

"That's true, Huc, that's true, I have done you wrong, Huc."

"Now you're starting to do, believe me," replied the monkey melancholy, "nothing I could more
to the truth of my words confuse.

"

Huc had after all not a good opinion of me, I do not know, giving
me his displeasure excited, maybe the fact that I had too much to
drink palm wine.

"Tell of the woods," I asked, should "not be arguing about God, no way denies about God. "

"That would be a reason for you to do it," said Huc, his mouth opened a little so that I flashing
his teeth looked, and it seemed to me suddenly, as a frightening evil lurking behind his face.

It
took me about this perception an indescribable fury, whose origin is not certain to search
only in this mockery of the animal was hidden, but rather in that
of anger bordering on shame, in which the building is a false god
of knowledge among the simple-minded collapse claims love of nature
feels. seized in unconsciousness and ignorance I suddenly one of the
bottles, grabbed her neck and waved it high in the air to to smash
them with a powerful blow to Hucs bald skull.

The shards flew in a colorful rain on all sides apart and I felt a dark shadow flit like to see,
when I opened the eyes blinded by a sudden light.

Then I realized that the morning sun was shining outside on the leaves, and that I in the night asleep
at the table edge on my arms was. And dismayed, I looked around, because the clink of the glass
was so clear in my ear that no doubt could rule on that a bottle was smashed. Then I realized
that I sleep in a glass pushed off the table had, at the bottom of the shards glistened in the
morning light, and the half-open window blew it is cool in and brought the cry of the parakeets
from the mango trees with it. I pulled my limbs stiffened painfully on, one after the other,
and yawned through the silent dark Laugh out wine that have graced the table, and was drowned
miserably in my cigar. Always still a little stunned, I bent down at last to pick up Hucs corpse,
but I the monkey was nowhere. As my eyes fell on the unclosed window, and with quiet Shock I realized
Hucs skill. I entered, not without a touch of old age, with straight legs and some arms frantically
tossed out onto the porch and was properly I Huc on top of a Papeiapalme. It looked as if
he were sitting on his hands, while he contented soul rocked best efforts and call on my way he
looked down, pulled his head between his shoulders and showed me baring his teeth, as derided
he asked. But soon I was indifferent to him, he blinked into the red morning sun, made the branch
ausschwanken as he wanted, put the small, smart people head back
and closed his eyes with life bliss.

When I went back into the room, Panya was in the open door, his hands behind his back, tomorrow
fresh and rested, he stood there, a clean turban on his coal-black hair strands, and his eyes
wandered with unspeakable expression of the overturned wine bottle
soon towards the shards on the ground, sometimes on my poor form,
which, in fact, the freshness and Lacked momentum.

"Sahib ...«, said he put his and his hands on his hips.

I will not describe the expression on his face, it is an unpleasant reminder me. Now he will
ask for the monkeys, I thought, but it did not happen.

Panja had been That night, after which he had found Elias alone in my bed, convinced that
even he was not to help me in the situation.

He said only in a very heinous Superiority, which I will not forget
him:

"Sahib, it is a fisherman out there, can say of you, the east
wind had come, and your Boat was ready for the voyage.

"

Chapter Four

At the grave of the silver Watarpatnam

It was hot from day to day, I slept during the lunch hour with a cigar in the hammock one awoke,
unhappy and tired, and the books were often for days, always the same Page comprising, lying
open on the desk. to travel My mind was clear, I studied the maps will not include, however,
was already decided, the way to the north to make the river valleys of the coast, although the currents
were still rich in water and had flooded the country in part. The officers of the British garrison,
some of which I met advised me off, but they understood my intentions,
and if they were of the belief that I was anxious to move forward
quickly and easily, so had it right.

At least I had taken in about a fortnight all the preparations, the ox-cart was hired, provisions
for two months was brought in, and one morning brought me a Boy the message that in Tschirakal
the lake, the boats were waiting for us.

The Watarpatnam and Ponani are in the north and south of Malabar open out into the sea, the largest
rivers of the country. The Watarpatnam forms, like most rivers in the west coast, its junction
with a huge lake basin, where the ocean tide by a narrow Discharge connects with its waters.
The individual estuaries, however, are among them, together with its lakes connected by channels,
which before the time of the fighting Tippu Sultan's Creating English, as prudent as this cruel
prince had to stop traffic at the time the monsoon storms that make coastal impassable, the sea city
no interruption to have suffered.

Today, with the main coastal trade is concerned by the steamships, is was this magnificent waterway
through the jungle Seeniederungen and almost forgotten. The channels are silted up partly by
the alluvial deposits of the rainy season, or the passionate Growth of its banks, it has spun
completely.

Panya was in a good mood since I had made known my decision to leave the city, for he loved not Cannanore
and wanted to come with me into areas in which we alone ruled. When he heard of the ways I
was inclined to do, he scratched his happy and thoughtful in the neck and looked absently out of the
corner, now I know that perhaps he looked much better than what we waited, as I do, and that it
secretly pleased me know soon in great dependence on its own. He led the preparations with much
caution, and many a purchase, he determined and independent, I slowly
gained an insight into the difficulties that had to be overcome.

He exchanged My last leather case with those made of sheet iron, tin cans and a wall of disappeared
in the baggage car, he advised me not to wear my weapons on display, but equips them well row
since the Muslims we would.

I did not know then how far his fears were attached, but it was me known that many of the Hindu
mob world solely to Islam, to the larger to enjoy freedoms that doctrine.

The Moslems are in the western provinces of a determined and united society, greater danger from
England, as by the followers of Hinduism, split of a hundredfold by the caste system and in
various areas of interest is dissected.

Otherwise our expedition revealed the peacefulness rather than the dangers of the country, not
come from the people, and I remembered, comparing, another exit in the Wilderness, which was
equipped in my presence for Sudan. At that time staring at the colorful Bearing of arms and preparation
for death, the brilliant figures of Negro giant spread the secret
horror of their bloodthirsty brethren in the interior country, and
with the wings of Vultures, circling the base of the expedition rustled
in the air wing Angel of Death, whose terrible trains the diseases
of Africa and the blood thirst in fever stuffiness radiated.

The long journey to Jamestown was made. They left at sunrise one morning and rode until noon,
when they halted in the wilderness to allow the horses an hour to rest and graze, while they
lay on a blanket spread on the grass under a tree. Robert and his sister fell asleep, and the
negro was nodding, when a snake came gliding through the grass toward the sleeping children.
Sam awoke in a moment and, seizing a stout stick, struck the snake and killed it before it
could reach the children. They were awakened by the blow and, trembling at their narrow escape,
once more set out for Jamestown.

Though they put their horses to their best all the afternoon, the sun was sinking behind the
western hills and forests as they came in sight of the settlement. 

"Are you the gentleman who wants to run on the water to get to Taliparambu?"

His forehead was just above the eyebrows, as cut off by a white bandage, and the black Eyes looked
at me safely and carefully weighing.

"Give the sum of money for the journey, Sahib, we must ablohnen the rowers in order to be obedient.
"

Panja came between us, on purpose so that the old man received a mild shock to resign and had.
He glared angrily at Panya.

"Who gave you permission to speak to the Sahib?"

Hissed Panja. I was amazed at his audacity.

"Access to the page and show 'your canoe here, whether they meet
the Lord, do you think the Sahib would come to talk with you?

"

The old man hesitated and looked doubtfully at me, but then he followed
Panja and said hesitatingly:

"The canoes are good."

The "I decide," Panya said coldly.

"Are you telling a great gentleman across the country," asked the old man.

Panja laughed. "You know in Tschirakal no more than the frogs" in your swamps, he said disdain.
"I did not steal my silk. The collector of Mangalore waits impatient that he sent a messenger
to the other. Is not a messenger arrived? "

The old man shook his head and turned away shyly at me.

Panja I liked, and despite his other little vanities I felt that
this approach had its reasons.

I had often been warned against the Muslims.

Panja knew his country.

We visited the boat in detail.

There were about eight meters long canoes from tree trunks with long
arms, as they are driven by stationary rowers, and with well-kept
Canvas roofs that protected the middle part, about the way in which
in Germany Last carts are covered with linen, tightly tense and arched.

Between the linen shade and the edge of the boat through a narrow
gaze was left, and before that was a cabin in about two meters long
stay for cooler hours in which dodged out of the sun to be needed.

The floor was carefully padded and covered with clean bamboo mats,
but the boats themselves were no wider than a narrow cot.

Panya was satisfied. I looked over the lake, which is reddish colored.

"When will the moon?" Panya said.

"Around midnight," replied the old man thoughtfully, "we will go at
dawn."

"Who wants to go," asked Panja left, you or the Lord "?

We go at once. "

"It's not that people are in Tschirakal widely dispersed and can not be found so quickly."

"How many rowers do you have?" Panya said, without ruling on the objection of the ship.

"Each boat four."

"You just need two for each boat," Panya decided, "the sea is calm."

The old man shook his head. "Tomorrow you come over the open sea, if only for a short time, but
two men could not row the boat through the surf. "This time The old man seemed to be right, for
Panya said, but he demanded that the people at once would be created and distributed in the boats.
He told me later that it was better, the rowers exchanged their views
on us from above not, and he got his own will.

Our luggage was carried over, the ox-wagon came to this very night, and we went to hardly a lesson,
then, among the rising stars.

The song of the oarsmen awoke me. Was I asleep? It took a little while to come to me, the air smelled
strange and it was cool, I heard the water and reeled up in a soft-white glow.

It struck me a stinging brilliance from the sky since I crawled out
of the cabin: the stars!

Below me, it fell into an infinite black abyss flashing, dead still
shaking, without like diamonds in the carbon black silk. on between
the two angry worlds of light, sky and, in the dead depth, rocked
and swayed two huge dark, naked body to me back and forth, pushed
into the dark twinkling of stars and constellations, and all sang.

Their Oars dipped into the water and lifted up again, covered with running as silver, sparkling
and glittering it was dripping down, and when I turned I saw a small silver street of such
splendor, that my eyes were blinded.

Like a sad resounding comet with a long tail our boat shot by a boundless, from Sky sparks
flickering universe. I never was able to recognize another country, we were in the middle
on the lake, the bed of the stationary current which, over a thousand years of mud, hesitant to Glided
over the sea. I dipped my hand into the water, and overlaid with silver. Powerless I fell without
detecting and understanding against the wall of my roof, trembling in supersensible Vertigo
before the wonders of the night.

Around midnight, appeared in the light of the rising moon blue haze
peaks before us.

The moon was an ocher-red crescent, above the jungle. We walked on land, I felt long time nothing
more than wet branches that brushed my face, heard the shouts of
Moslems in the damp darkness, and my eyes were only rarely by a whitish
or taken the red glow about me.

From such a background, raised large leaves or the swords of a high
reeds from.

Once shot with piercing wail, which still long out of the water gurgled,
a large swamp bird aloft.

"Panya" I cried.

As a fire blazed in front of me to note in which I saw a narrow sand
bank on which the canoe had been run.

It opened about a pergola, grown so close that he looked like a green
cave, the middle of it Panya was in his white robe, holding a Torch
high and waving to me.

The people had to stand for several hours. There was a semicircle of fire against the country
burned, after a short time the men were fast asleep on their mats, and Panja sat across from me on
fire, and said softly, excited without ceasing.

I saw him the restless the tropical summer night at the helm had a remarkable work of the people
in the blood boiling Memory of wild deeds left in me, and it was lurking about in the seething
silence a provocative love addiction and the dawning of a hasty foolish death. It was as expected
the existence of life and greed drive the lush and quiet ferocity erupting plants trees and our
bodies. My blood was pounding in the tips of the fingers, in the temples and neck.

After a while Panja broke up, he squirmed out of dry vines and rotting wood a Torch, poured oil
on it and lit it on fire.

"Where you going, Panya?"

"To the women," he said dully.

For a while I saw the light of his torch red rock through the thicket, he waved it up high and behind
you, to protect against wild animals, to the beat of his quick, soft
kick.

Then I was left alone by the fire with Elias, Pasha was sleeping in the boat at the suitcases,
he had his mat spread across over my property and watched it asleep with his body.

Chapter Five

Jungle people

Panja smelled the villages before we reached them, when the wind was favorable to his research.

"It's a village, Sahib comes," he would say, "here we propose a tent." It happened main reason there because
we could be sure, fresh near a branch to get water, rice and bananas, poultry or eggs.

We had a lot of fuss and effort trying to find support, because once we needed to smaller loads
usually two men or women, and secondly, the people usually infected after two or three days of homesickness
and ran back, although I give them their pay wages after the period ended habit. They let him
down more easily, as they stole is usually something that they richly compensated, without
me, sensitive Losses teach.

Each time was missing one of our slaves, said Panya the hope of the Panther would like to catch
him in his flight, he hoped so heartless and sincere and never changed the predator, which should
yield to the refugee. Then we stayed for days at the edge of Steppe or in the middle of the
jungle wilderness lie, let the sun come and go, smoking, slept and hunted. I had lost the exact orientation
of the map, but it was not important because I knew the width of
the jungle and the direction of sunlight and the compass was certain.

Also showed us the rivers, which we narrow river crossings, or in the Canoes of the natives crossed
that we had not lost in the main direction. And because I had a goal?

One of the young institution has long stayed with me and he was not my own, but finally Panya's
favor, which was a rarity. He was a youth and was Gurumahu of about eighteen, tall and very
slim, but supple and strong.

He had converted to Islam because he had placed the greatest hopes for freedom, which should
be set with this lesson for his future life, but unfortunately prevented his pleasant personality
him from making use of them. He trembled still before the Brahmins and changed his lifestyle
in any way. He joined us on the not very unusual type of theft particularly close, and that
was his insatiable Drive for wealth, it fell on my copper boiler.

Gurumahus theft was discovered early enough, thank God, because we were in no little embarrassment
advised if he would escape with his booty. The main thing is his
unmasking Elias to thank, which was certainly contested by Panja.

We had our tent on the edge the desert opened, so that the output
of the view of the hilly level allowed, and I awoke from the growl
of Elias.

Then I saw in the moonlight Gurumahu run across the plains, right
and left one of our copper kettle in her hand.

He ate up the ground with such a huge jumps, executed as the salvation of his soul on its length. I
took the revolver and fired into the Air, the ball could reach him any more anyway, even it
was far from me to want to kill him.

We did not do well in India, so crucial to act as the Hindus is not the same Pleasure in the
death feel like after the reports of the African travelers the negro.

Also I knew that exert a useful effect on the bang, the bad conscience
of the robber would, himself had a great shooting gun, which I will
discuss later am.

Gurumahu threw himself with a shrill cry of the length on the ground, on the face, and the two
boilers were rolling, sparkling in the moon, on either side of him out into the grass.

When it was still behind him and he saw no pursuer, he picked himself
up slowly and began to feel his limbs one by one.

He started with the legs to him in this situation Probably the most important were, walked
slowly up to the poor and the last thought also of his head, he seems
to like everything else in his place and in order occurred.

Then he jumped up and ran bent over, jumps in, on, without the copper boilers were not granted
to him or to assess a look.

Panja brought her back and polished them, mischievous as he was, in great detail. "The Panther
will "catch him, he said, and angrily threw sticks into the fire.

It annoyed him deep that he had been taken by my shot for his night's rest. I was on the quiet,
did not lose without regret, Gurumahu, though not necessarily the
way it Panja did, but I should deceive myself in this, for he came
the next day around noon in our Stock slipped.

He probably had the jungle at night in his abandonment not like the smell of curry or rice meal
in our attracted him. Panja led him to me majestically in front, poor criminals looked like it
had been pulled from the water.

                  

"I'll kill you, I said quietly.

He jumped three feet into the air and then fell to the ground.

"Should I hang it?" Panya asked so calmly that I think about all the baseness I recognized threat.
It is remarkable how quickly notice one an injustice, if another, they can be guilty.

"He ate a whole glass with salt," Panya told objectively, "from whiskey
I want to , Not because he was not able to find.

"

"Did you Herget rubbed the hungry? Where have you been? "I asked the culprit.

He raised his head and tried to endure my view, what the natives of aboriginal very difficult,
if it's blue eyes, have to look into it, and if they rarely come into contact with whites. But
Gurumahu recognized the expression on my face however, and began to laugh like a child.

"You are kind, sir," he said hesitantly and then with conviction: "You're not smart and just
as the English. I will watch over your tank until I die. "

"If you want to do anything else, you can shave up again in the swamps," growled Panja, but Guru
was not in his enjoyment of his gift just affect only life, and when
the two distant, I heard him proudly say to my servant:

"Has a Sahib
shot at you, you renegade?

You are not worth a shot, so you live and crawl around between the Lord's feet, but I have fought
with him! "

"That's true, you said copper-eater," Panja, "I thank you that you do not smash him do you have
aphids, "

But Gurumahu remained with us from now on, we called him Guru, because his name was too long,
Incidentally, it was not his only, he had quite a few nice-sounding name, but Gurumahu it seemed
to him most to arrive.

* * * * *

Once we had missed the sinking of the sun despite Panya caution, and the darkness surprised us on
the marshy banks of a river. Guru sniffed in the damp night air and peered out from the shore
opposite to the palm groves across, and right We saw flash after a while a faint little light.
When the tent was pitched and the fire was burning, we heard the
river water by oars splashed above our tent the sound died away, and
the rustling jungle, but then everything was quiet.

"Now, the mangroves have got eyes," Panya said, "but there must be
a reckless people be, because they fear the panther not.

"

Elias on in this relationship was not a true reliance, for his mental attitude prevented him
from because frighten peaceful approaching sleepwalker by barking.

We heard the panther cough in the vicinity of the camp, so used to Elias in the background of the
tent to withdraw, not because he was afraid, but because he liked better there.

On the day I had shot a Häherdrossel, I plucked her from the brown plumage, and the delicate little
head with bright blue eyes swung rings with open beak my knee. Guru's eyes were missing only
these brightly colored rings to the same rigid and lifeless three watch as my prey. He did not
understand that I was eating birds, which probably the soul of the departed was mitverschlungen.
Panya was in this respect his native view of the world long since
removed. In the copper kettles boiled the water, and a host of lively
night people gathered in the firelight, idolized the flames like colored
sparks, or staring from the leaves of red incomprehensible in this
life, from its Harvest of death beckoned.

Panja brought me the remains
of my razor-friendly, and resembled that of a Taschensäge as such
here and there use was. It was at times distressing ignorance once
by a chef to slaughter a goat has been used, so it trips us up when
we Europeans to our one trick unsuspecting people barbarous customs.
A shadow of barbarism stored for a long time now in erratic growths
around my chin and around my cheeks and competed to unplanned configuration
with the flora of the jungle floor. Guru was in the pepper vines by
day, except bird nests and brought me the eggs, we cooked, but only
those who not chirped. Panja chewed betel and watched me, he had a
great sense of when a work myself amused, and when he had to take
me, he also felt in the last Time in his role as a tour guide clearly
refined, and to me it seemed he would do his Working with a whole
new consciousness beautiful freedom. Pasha was cleaning Palmenschößlinge,
the most tender and best-tasting vegetables, which India has to offer,
but a strictly prohibited Court because the life of the palm, is destroyed
by this robbery of their hearts. The whitish, average drive of the
tree is cut, it is quite delicate as fresh hazelnuts and similar tastes,
prepared with oil and acidic fruit juice, it represents a salad, as
it European cuisine has not have.

"I want the people to ask if mango
trees in the village?" Guru said suddenly.

"What people?" I asked
in amazement.

That "there," said Guru, pointing to himself.

I recognized
the brown faces in the firelight from the leaves of the mangroves.
I I had long been accustomed to that I was never alone, but I was
terrified every time again new. First I counted five, then ten and
finally about twenty large and small faces the whole village seemed
to gather.

I sent over to Guru, the faces appeared below, but then
began a more vivid Chatter in the dark, fire was finally made, and
the oars rattled in the canoe. I would liked to talk to people, but
they were too timid, however, brought us everything we wanted. The
inhabitants of these lands, as well as the eastern mountains are from
the Indigenous people have and mixes with the immigrant Indo-European
tribes barely. Her skin color is almost black, and her facial features
more like those of blacks, as those of the Brahmins. They stand on
a very low state of civilization, but guileless and very peacefully. No fears
of midnight ruffians disturbed the sweetest slumber, and the best house required no fastening
but a latch, lifted by a string.

Happiness was enjoyed unconsciously. Beneath a rugged exterior, humanity wore its sweetest
smile. For a long time there was hardly a lawyer in the land. The husbandman who held his own
plough and fed his own cattle was the greatest man of the age. No one was superior to the matron,
who, with her busy daughters, kept the hum of the wheel incessantly alive, spinning and weaving
every article of their dress. Fashion was confined within narrow limits, and pride, which aimed
at no grander equipage than a pillion, could exult only in the common splendor of the blue
and white linen gown, with short sleeves, coming down to the waist, and in the snow-white flaxen
apron, which, primly starched and ironed, was worn on public days. There was no revolution
except from the time of sowing to the time of reaping, from the plain dress of the week to
the more trim attire of Sunday. Every family was taught to look to the fountain of all good.

Life was not all sombre. Frolic mingled with innocence. Sometimes religion itself wore the
garb of gayety, and the annual thanksgiving to God was, from primitive times, as joyous as
it was sincere. Nature always asserts her rights, and Christianity means gladness.

The English colonies of the south after the restoration began to show evidence of improvement.
Mr. William Drummond, the sturdy Scotch emigrant to Virginia, having been appointed governor
of North Carolinia brought that country into the favorable notice of the world. Clarendon gained
for Carolinia a charter which opened the way for religious freedom. One clause held out to
the proprietaries a hope of revenue from colonial customs, to be imposed in colonial ports
by Carolinia legislatures. Under a white cloth, I saw the vague outlines of a curved Shape, a fist clenched
hand side looked out from the folds and stretched, waxy colored, slightly curved upward, in
the pale glory of the approaching day up.

I threw back the cloth and let it fall once again over the disfigured face. The hellish poison,
which the Brahmin had succumbed reveals himself through his undoubted Effect and also the insidious
power of those who in the name of their idols to malicious hang down,
god mix.

When I turned away, I met Panya's eyes, and when he saw my face, he threw himself to the ground as
though a fist him down, and burst into a howl like an animal. -

On the bazaar was the colorful life of the new day begun, the brown, naked figures among the colored
turbans hurried as usual then, busy or casual, sometimes from Bending loads, sometimes stiff and
worthy of trust in idleness. A Mohammedan traders, I had long been promised to buy a bunch of
ginger root, which I take wanted haunted me for long. At the temple pond in which a white wall
was reflected, preached a foreign pilgrims.

There was a smell of evaporating water blasting and oxen, the sun was shining, the scattered
palm trees stood out at an angle and still the noise of the street and over the white, flat
roofs of the houses. It started to warm up.

When we reached the high palm-trees, which then leads to the sea and the sounds of the city in
the monotonous sound of the water died away, I gave my horse and walked alone Panja further.
A fatigue, body and soul as a bitter power penetrated, leaving me to pause a while, and I leaned
against the trunk of a tree and closed his eyes.

  

  Then I saw a village
  in the evening,
  peace in my native Germany.

  The elder flourished on the fence, it had been raining and the air
was cool and moist.

Sang high on the gable of a farmhouse a blackbird in the last sun,
and the clear sweetness of her voice filled the quiet country with
luck.

End

The publishing of Ruetten & Loening in Frankfurt am Main appeared

Waldemar
Bonsall People through From the notes of a vagabond

75. Thousand

Judgments
from the press:

regarded as seals, with Socratic method, these seven
chapters of the Waldemar Bonsall the purest, sounding, selected, which
met me a long time.

In 1665, Albemarle had been increased by fresh emigrants from New England and by a colony of
ship-builders from the Bermudas, who lived contentedly with Stevens as chief magistrate, under
a very wise and simple form of government. A council of twelve, six named by the proprietaries,
and six chosen by the assembly. An assembly, composed of the governor, the council, and twelve
delegates from the freeholders of the incipient settlements, these formed a government which
enjoyed popular confidence. The
vegetation was more and more, rice fields interspersed with swampy wastelands, mad at those silent
laughter reflected in heavy stewing besieged and abandoned by humans and animals. There slept
the plague their summer sleep to wake up with the first rains. It was so oppressive hot that
breathing became a painful effort, the rowers were working as in a dull stupor, and the voices
of the murky water off very often. The river divided into many broad and narrow channels, from
the palm trees on the bank rose the red chimney German brickyard.

We drove through the city to the sea port, we arrived at the place barren and desolate, protected
by a sand against the sea, lay, and the vapors of the sea without life and freshness, disappointed
me bitterly. From the city we had seen almost nothing, it is quite in the palm green on three
hills. But now I saw the houses of the port, poor rotten stone buildings, dilapidated and unfriendly,
in that all the brutality and abject Of character, as are commonly found in Eastern ports, their
long tradition destroyed and the new habits and institutions with the spirit of a flat and
predatory Business services. A few old, large sail boats with high bow and wide deck were back
and forth, sometimes half in the water, soon sunk into muddy sand. It was almost deserted,
only on a small Dampfschaluppe a Hindu crouched in the shade and smoked. He peered curiously out to
us, and when I got in the boat, he jumped up, shouted shrilly and loudly a few Words about the dam
against the murky window of a painted house. His small boat gives the movement between the coast
and the ocean liners, a few miles throw away from the land anchor to wait for two or three
hours to passengers. The Mangalore Port of itself is not responsible for the transport of larger
steamships suitable.


No less interesting than the man was the child he led at his side. Her great, dark brown eyes
and golden hair were indications of beauty, despite the careworn look and dust-covered features.
She wore a hood and frock, stockings and thick English shoes of the period. Like the man, the
child had a haggard look, and her clothing was faded and worn. There were leaves and dust in
that golden hair, as if her pillow had been the earth, and her beautiful brown eyes had a terrified
look, as if some dread possessed her mind.

The appearance of these two travel-stained strangers occasioned much comment in Boston. No
one knew them. Where did they come from? The south, perhaps the seaboard, for they made their
entrance from the Plymouth and Rhode Island roads. But why had they come by land when travel
by water was so much easier? They must have been walking all day, for the child seemed very
tired. Some women, who had seen them enter the old suburb at the lower part of the town, asserted
that the stranger was carrying the child in his arms when he came to the town. They saw him
halt under some trees by the big spring and both man and child drink of the pure sweet waters. Our
luggage was safe for the most part, had only the food, the white Ants on the most formidable
raged, but except Panja and Pasha, I only had two carrier from South Kanara with me, to us at great
expense and trouble often setting up their lives provided them with rice and fruits from the jungle
the next village. The local residents had our dependence released by their performance, and
my money reserves are melted together anymore, a fact which brought Panja in silent fury. He
swore the blackmailers below in the Open revenge and promised more than once to put their village
on fire, my indifference led him to serious admonitions:

"Sahib, you're a great lord, and you can do whatever you want, but you do nothing. The Days
pass, one after another, like water waves on the sea coast, they can no trace and bring always
the same. Who lives like that? When we were in Anandapur, have you laughed at the Brahmins,
which lie in the sun all day and eat the rice temple, of their claim, but now as you do it? You used
to have everything in books recorded, what you saw, and I am often asked, but now you do not
even more, and the books are burned. "

The Panya was a great grief, for he knew that his often mentioned in these books was done, and he
had prepared himself for the glory of his in the West, the land of the Men waited. I laughed
at him, only what concerned the storm, he was right, and so decided I was one time to take the shortest
route from Mangalore to the protection of these old wait secured port city of the rainy season.

But
in the bottom of my heart I knew with such intentions, I gave up
and left behind, and that my life was no more time be given to the
elapsed time of light and freedom possible.

And so it happened that our departure from day to day delayed, although all my Experiences
in the mountains in the haze of that dim and secret improbability TOOK PLACE restless, which can invade
us if we are in a beautiful place the idea of Farewell already carry around with us. -

There was Gong, I will not forget him, he probably is dead now, because he had even then no
longer the youngest, and he overcame his distrust of me never completely.

He belonged to the sort of semi-big monkeys in India only in the mountains live, they are more
significant than their brothers in the jungle, and they have other properties, but by no means
better.

I called these my companions very early morning hours Gong because
of its ugly voice that sounded as if you an old rusty tin boiler against
a stone wall drafts.

Thank God he did not say much, but my appearance forced him the most interest off, apparently
he had set his mind before his death, yet something very special experience, and selected my person
seemed to be done and the morning see the old high Latane and tamarind trees left.

Hardly had the remote area of ​​the sea in the dawn silver colored, but I also have my Bearing
left, not to miss the coolest hours.

I saw the pale sky glow as in front of the barred window of my dull and lackluster opening took
off, but little distinguished by the light of the moon and the first call of the birds of prey
met, far behind me, even in bright light, circled by the jagged rocks. Well, it took about
an hour, reached until the first rays of our high country, at first I saw them away on the water
Sparkle and in the east were the jagged rocks golden edges in infinitely freer, more height stretched
up against the pale blue morning sky. There were a highlight and a stillness of them from that
met every morning and again my mind and it well into the daylight hours accompanied, as nothing
happened that could wipe out their peace in my soul. Only who can take this way and under such
conditions, the nature learns to understand them, because it requires, as all that is great, our
unbridled passion to get us to reveal full.

In this hour Gong waited for one of the trees close to my house, mostly
on a low thick branch.

One hand clutching a rule, however, for all cases a higher branch, and if I had my gun with
me, initially, no persuasion move him, to remain. I do not know how he made the acquaintance of
my gun have made, you may be sure that the monkey knew me far longer and observed had as I do.

His
companions fled initially in large flocks. It was easy to observe in this effort, because the
trees are widely spaced from each other grew, and the men each time the trouble had to make,
again only to come down to the ground, get ahead if they wanted.

Gong now made an exception one day sit, he stopped as I approached, and I stopped, for it was
at least surprising that this monkey is not on and it did. He sat at a low, thick branch, held
with all four hands, as if he is prevented wanted to finally take flight, trembled and looked
at me with raised eyebrows both curious and anxious to maliciously.

Now I have always believed in animals can be seen that they usually only evil us mean when we give
them reason to do so. It may be that this view is because that I made in my youth never had bad
experiences with dogs, horses and cats I, though these creatures
say from that time by no means the same to me be, also it may be because
I do not feel good in myself consciousness of a superiority able.

Of all the sensations that were socializing with other beings, it is a human being or animals,
brings with it is to me the superiority of the most painful, and I've always seen that the most
limited people they savored the most productive when they one opportunity presented. It is the
nature of worship before the Living, that one including by concedes rights, and it called
for only when the common Welfare of our management needs. From the huge life voices in the short distance
shake the earth being our mind, is the sigh of the oppressed creature, as the conductive and plaintive
melody in a roaring organ song ever was the perception, this is me penetrated to the ears,
and I hate to give or receive sympathy, is only me left the road, in all my life a living
equal expression the natural sight.

And when Gong was sitting without escape with his companions, and I am him slowly approached, I was
quite different in the strain of his features, with heart palpitations fluctuate between fear
and curiosity. About it but he seemed suddenly to invade it yet a third way was, and he struck
him and made an attempt to intimidate me by that he gave me in his way a proof of his forest
rights and personal importance. He drew his head deep between his shoulders, stretched out before
him with a jerk and shake both the branch on which he sat, so a vigorous
swings his whole body wild and attackers and severally, as his strength
permitted any.

He uttered some cupped lips produces a tone that is very difficult to describe, but which
one by a term get, if you would fix a lamp chimneys to his lips and sat in utter angry Pushed
into conviction: "Good God!"

This experience seemed at first so strange to me that I had to laugh, and I opened my legs and did so loudly.
Looked puzzled for a moment Gong moreover, But then he took my gesture as a sign of benevolent approach
and repeated it, as well as he could. His eyes still remained strangely serious, and his forehead
showed deep lines.

We are now proven this time and in the future our understanding of each other in that we the best of our
ability imitated, so maybe it amusing, we worked together may have,
I had but a sorrow and a slight melancholy in mind when I thought
how great and insurmountable barrier that was separating me from Gong.

I have in the course of our acquaintance made the significant observation that the Gong was upset
when I had once stayed away, and that he was honest about my little
Attention was happy.

Perhaps it may be a similar idea in his discussion of my Person has moved. He tried to learn
and understand what is for him to understand some left, and when it was often only at the external
gesture, but it was on both sides the desire to be seen to approach each other.

Although outwardly he let me never to get at is, until about five or six steps. As soon as
I made an attempt to shorten that distance, he raised a regretful reject the hand, and took a
higher road to me to indicate what the consequences have my concession would.

Gong had in the course of our acquaintance learned everything with the eyes of the first names
a person can understand, he had my tropical hat on the skull, my
handkerchief needed, and he knows what a knife is good.

He leafs through my notebooks and in my hammock, rocked, and he understood the movements of
the dressing and undressing a Skirt mimic deceptive, as he was of old used to wearing clothes.

Often,
however, we understood each other does not, because Gong knew in his addiction, the same to me
be too soon to hold no bounds, and sometimes annoyed me by his sensitive
Imitations, so that I seemed ridiculous in my movements and the distinct
impression won, to be mocked.

It must now be thinking about the way in which Gong part of his education was to wean again, for
it was evident from day to day, that both he, like his companions, took me seriously and it is
no longer on the Lack of respect could claim that I believed to be allowed to. The animals
almost laughed, when I came. Sometimes they waited in the morning lined up on me, to me at every
opportunity .

Laugh They pushed at each other in order to draw attention rubbed the right Pleasure the gray
hands and struck his thigh, while she squealed in all Grudged keys, the next moment a happiness
that they themselves have hardly were allotted to one minute, and felt important in all this in
a way that also modest people, but I am one who would seriously annoyed.

I was never more alone, wherever I was staying, and even the respect of my Rifle disappeared
from day to day, as the gentlemen had brought out that I am on birds and Deer arrived, and
that the important family of the monkeys was completely out of danger, harm be. Was it me but once managed
to capture any small animal, waiting them until I put the rifle aside, and came up to them,
where they behaved as if I only owe this success to them.

Mostly I was annoyed at her forgetfulness. It was shameful how important they are could do
with a thing that slipped from her memory then, as it were never
been in the world.

At any moment they could get something a different, and always claimed them to be in her new
pose taken completely seriously. I finally came before such as I was in a strange town, to the
amusement of the citizens tolerated eccentric, and began to my animals and world view seriously
irrezuwerden.

So I complained Panja my suffering.

"Oh," he said, the monkeys'! Who will get involved with the monkeys, Sahib? But only if you spot
a grasshopper, you will already worried and talking her, and then you do so, as if you answered
the cattle. Those who handle but with monkeys will soon have the impression that his own shadow
gone mad, and the shadow can you do not catch. "

"I want to have Gong," I replied.

Panya was thinking. "I've caught some monkeys as a child in a sling, and if the Monkey, will
you have the, you know and harbors no censure, so you can easily catch him; if you gave him
earlier point exactly how to walk in a sling. learn from this trick it only the first half, and
if you hinzuspringst quickly you can draw it.

But you must meet him with his left hand and grab him unexpectedly,
right in the neck.

The old monkey bite, as long as they have hope of being able to escape. Later thinking they
gradually give it up. "

This was an excellent idea. I picked up the next morning a durable hemp rope, greased it, and
as my tormentors received me, I started to all types, sometimes in the arm, sometimes on the
neck, hanging, and I was trying to attract attention particularly gongs. His Companions withdrew
affected because my actions were strange to them, but saw Gong I
was too thoughtful and extremely serious.

When I felt contented with my example to have worked, I opened the loop as far as necessary, pulled
me back and put me at some distance on the grass in order to look forward to my satisfaction
at your leisure.

But Gong was sitting quietly on his road, and looked with raised eyebrows as soon as the noose
, it soon myself. Then he made his evil, round jaw, met with his head against me, "said contemptible
"Great God" and turned away to look around.

Then I heard laughing behind me Panja and decided to kill him immediately.

"Sahib, this monkey knows the sling, he also knows the people, so
he is at that time so come close.

"

"Why are you laughing?" I screamed. "Who gave you permission to laugh?"

must
""

That one, "said Panya.

                  As I saw it, and laughed along with him.

* * * * *

The green wilderness of the jungle evaporated under me in the morning sun, and often remained until
noon veiled, I realized now sometimes difficult as I had to endure down there so long, now
that the clarity of mountain air blew cool around my forehead. At night, the Panther was sometimes
up to the porch of the house of hunger in the arid hill country pushed into our area. The Wild had
withdrawn from the burning steppes in the jungle, and I met except hyenas jackals soon only when
I use the rifle in the wooded areas sometimes of the afternoon went
on Bald Mountain.

But always the animals scurried in and out of intervals Shooting range on the horizon then.
The gray-brown jackal, the color of the soil had provoked, me many a shot, but no sooner had
the pretty little head with the raised ears are shown, it seemed to the ground they have already
devoured.

Close before we left, I shot my first Panther.

It was a clear moonlit night, when I heard Panja penetrated into
my room and called me. Behind him stood still Pasha and steep in the
moon, from the bottom up a little by the glow of the fire lit, the
only weak on the floor of the forecourt was burning.

"Sahib," said
Panya, the panther's so hungry that he eats fire, we can not do it
and sell not sleep. "

I had accepted the message, I took the gun
and ordered Panja to put out the fire.

The man knew there was something wrong with the travellers, and turning about, he held a whispered
consultation with his wife. She was heard to say in a faint whisper: "It is the same, a man
with a child." Then the smith turned on the stranger, and said:

"Be off."

The proud eye of a daring trooper in despair is the saddest sight one ever gazed upon. Such
was the look of the humiliated man, as, with his starving child, he turned from the last door.
At times the spirit of revenge rose in his breast, and he was inclined to turn on the men who
refused his child food, drink and shelter, and with his stout knotted stick beat out their
brains; but, on second thought, he restrained himself and said:

"No--no; I will not make an outlaw of myself. I am not a robber."

He who had been the commander of thousands, the king of the battle-field, at whose name princes
grew pale and thrones tottered, was now a wanderer from house to house, rejected at every door.

"I am so hungry," murmured Ester. "If I had but a morsel of food, I could sleep under a tree."

He heard the plaintive appeal, and it wrung his fatherly heart. Through his teeth he hissed:

"If I am made a savage let all the world beware." Maybe put Panja advance
that I knew to what it was, maybe it was a similar reluctance of his messages from me like the
questions.

Close to the cactus fence of the garden stood up after a while, black and powerful, the wooden
Pagoda of a Temple, we saw in the court over which the royal garden possible was, and saw the sacred
goat between the brown piles of the forecourt to the inner sanctum. It did not change the holy
place, only a faint reddish glow glowed behind the low dark doorway, as if a curtain of delicate red silk
before the mysterious Spatial spread.

As our steps to a bamboo thicket approached quietly behind the screaming plumage the outline of
a low building was visible, silent chant of turbid, similar the crickets in the tall grass goes
out when a scout night approaches. We pushed perennials in the high one, on a narrow, barely
visible path that the stars were hanging over us in the thin bamboo
foliage, such as stinging, small lights.

Behind a barred door, in the Black sounded a faint moan, close to
the wooden bars.

"We must have light," I said softly to Panya.

This would only have been possible by a torch, and her appearance
would have betrayed us.

We would our royal host hardly seemed particularly polite when he
let us know would have caught, while at night as we searched through
his domestic sector.

"If we wait, we will learn to see," said Panya. The stars seemed very bright, I could hear
my heart beating and was undecided.

"Is it an animal?" I said Panya.

He looked at me surprised, as he would have kept me informed and to wonder now about my question.

"An
animal?

It is a woman who complains, "he said. "Maybe they love the wounded, perhaps she suffers a penalty.
"

A cloudy haze that behaved breath struck out to me, as I now close to the wooden railing approached.
My fear had given way to that unthinking courage of the outrage, the Panya with words had awakened
in me. I held sideways to the faint light to the dark to let fall opening. The lower house
had been erected, and was like a neglected Stable.

"Who's there?" I asked in Kannada. Panya was standing behind me.

As I looked at a short while oppressed people waiting a narrow face,
strangely colorless and sick Pallor, appear between two rods of the
grid.

Right and left of the black hair, which sank resolved, I saw the
frightening skinny fingers of the hands in the Each level of the eyes
clutching a staff.

This phenomenon was so horrible in the night light in their condemnation,
as the face of a long dead from the Crypt up appeared.

The large dark eyes drawn on the night and released it back into
paralyzing silence.

I was as if my heart go out, and I stumbled and took Panya's arm.

"Come, Sahib," he said, "if she is ill, the disease creeps into your limbs."

"Is she sick?"

"I do not know," he said hesitantly.

"You know it yet," I cried, pressed his teeth together.

Panya was frightened.

"I just know, sir, that unfaithful women are punished in this country in this way, but It is possible
that she is ill. "

Left me the rest of my natural reflection, I grabbed one of the wooden bars of the grid with both
hands, braced his foot against the bottom wall and put those great effort unleashed Power,
given to the highest indignation can give us, but my effort was in
vain, because the rods were made of bamboo.

Panja pulled me back. I do not recall that he ever touched me before, and these more daring
than his intention to put me insightful analysis of the situation, that was certainly difficult
right when I considered that I definitely use all wanted to help
these unfortunate her fate, and me to the other, the matter As for
absolutely nothing.

The king would give me a high-handed interference with his rights never To forgive, and if
his powers were not as great as he thought and pretended I had not the other the support that
he believed in me. The English maintain the customs and personal habits of the Hindus do, as
well as the the Brahmins of respect to the most reserved, because they have realized that by
the differences in customs, which distinguish the individual case, the land of the more easily dominate.
So small in number compared to the natives, as big as it is one closed society, even the most
powerful caste over.

                  So I probably had to consider that I would find no protection in a
government whose administration trend an intervention, such as those
I have planned, ordered, least perhaps as a German.

Just at that time England was not yet informed of German forces and rights, and one held in
London, the first energetic action by the Germans in overseas countries, only presumptuous.

Nevertheless,
it was clear my decision to bring my desire to apply and I took my before, Panja send in the early morning
to the King and him at a special meeting to . Ask It is strange how much easier it is to commit
acts of cruel or unjust, as can tolerate in others. The thought of the suffering of these incarcerated
women showered me during a sleepless night in the sultry heat of the mosquito curtain with
a hot shower of outrage after another. In short damming a painful half-sleep appeared the waxy brown
woman's face before me in glowing mist, and the plaintive tones of
her singing dying voice filled the pregnant of evil and impending
tempests night air.

* * * * *

I rose with the first dawn in an increased desire to Painful Then, finally the sea, the distance
to see the reflection of the Freed unit. I felt as if the green walls of my eyes, so dull the
senses and to the extreme irritability squeezed, I felt guilty and
suffocating.

In this state, like the stubbornness a thought to win so extravagant and tough violence, it
was certainly an increased Rage in which I came over soon after the
king.

It seemed a little on the consequences of my Action on, and this Constitution, I may owe more to
succeed, as I might had a deliberate approach would have to thank.

"You think a woman in your garden," caught, "I said harshly. "It is a powerful prince unworthy
to take such a helpless against nature. I demand that you immediately her freedom give back. No
more, but do it like this! "

According to a concerned looking up a great flexibility came into the nature of the Hindu princes,
stubborn and submissive at the same time and by a perseverance in circumstances that even the
most patience would have tired. Panya was very serious and translated each word scrupulously, I felt
that he dared not take any responsibility in this situation.

"I see that you're not my intention to," reply I sent to the king, "I remember up to kill the law
of the government, which prohibits and punishes murder with death.

"

The King turned pale and his lips trembled slightly, but he was friendly and brought letting and tried
to convince me that there is a slight penalty acted to impose be
good law. I, too, the passing of this woman is unknown.

He knew of the severity the English, but at the same time he has
never had reason to doubt its fairness to To doubt and he would rather
believe that an unjust man was not an Englishman as he one Englishman
an injustice confidence.

I realized anew the cunning and tenacity of these people, their persistence and the cunning with
which they make their smallest doubt weapons, without a demonstrable injury to connect to
it.

Cheaper way I had no other way out, to give in, before I the rights
to an audit supplied or the reasons for the punishment of the incarcerated
had heard.

But the little corner where I had been driven, made me not careful, but angry, and I cried angrily:
"If the British their justice from the Indian Kings had learned, so you were sitting behind those
bars, even before I returned to Bombay would be. "

It is usually not my kind, kings on so rude way to respond, but after the beginning I had made,
I was left only this way because my wisdom is foreign to the their tents erected on the battlefield
on which overwhelmed a generous intent of fear has been. I looked at Panja, that he thought
my answer is right, he stepped forward and said quietly:

"The legs of the prisoners are eaten up to the knees up by the ants."

The king gave him no answer, he looked down, as it would all of this sudden nothing more, and for
the first crept about this new gesture of my opponent, a gray Fear in my heart. I felt that
he was considering the use of weapons, which do not mind has grown, and this was the silence in which
driven the evil to the extreme, the Low summons.

"I will release the prisoners, Collector Sahib," he said quietly, and stepped back.

This song was certain risen not sincere heart, for the English collector
is the highest government officials of the district and would certainly
not in my outfit the forgotten wilderness of the jungle of Kanara
travel.

I knew this well, and not only the watchful gaze of the king's taught me about the perfidy of
this attack.

"If the collector would want to come, I would" not even gone, I said Brash. I was now by no means
more important to give something other than good answers. I challenged the reply of the king with
calm eyes, and certainly has its color harassed him more than my presumption. He saw me only
once, quickly and fully repressed hatred at.

The poison of the dark jungle night flashed in his velvet eyes tired, the wickedness of Stranger
and the whole racial hatred of an oppressed people.

I thought it appropriate to confine myself to both sides that this
concession and wait have what further action would be my call.

So I said goodbye to the king, with We eagerly showed us both so
gracious as possible to appear.

I had to take the tent and prepare for departure took everything,
but I firmly resolved to enter the boat rather until I had seen the
result of my effort.

I was very little time to think, whether a success or a failure more difficult for me would bring,
because even before the case was closed last iron, brought two servants of the king's prisoners
us. The young woman was dressed in a white cloth, and walked slowly and laboriously as meaning I saw
little more than her eyes as she stood before me, and the flickering fear made it me baffled.

Panya tried to talk to her, and after a long effort, he managed to
understand her To make us that they owed their deliverance from their
position, and that she left to was to go where she pleased.

She left without speaking down to the ground, probably from exhaustion, and closed again for
a long time their eyes, the light was weaned. No sign of gratitude or joy rewarded us, until at
last, after I had retired me, Panya asked if they foreign must accompany Sahib.

Panja will have told her that we asked for or expected anything from her, he has to pay the Freedom
described as tempting as it may be he just kept appearing. After a little While he came to me and
said, without taking sides or triumph, but honestly shocked:

"Sahib, the young woman asks you to let them return."

"In their prison?"

"Yes, sir. She placed her hands on her heart and called the name of the king. "-

An hour later pushed our boat from the landing place of the village
Schamaji out in the warm Vortex of Kumardary that carried us slowly
and quietly to the west, on the sea.

Of love can prove no love services, it is in their self-progress and persistent than any other
human feeling, and their safety is higher origin than reason.

Chapter Eleven

Mangalore

The remarkable fact of our earthly existence, is always in the moments of awakening published
in the most wonderful. If our senses, under the glow of the morning sun or by the song of a bird
raised in the light, to consciousness again come together, it breaks over the heart at times
like a shower of happiness and surprise, the certainty in, alive to be, even after countless
that have collapsed, and after countless who will come, drenched on the surface of the earth is
a living human being.

I became this joyful surprise in any hour more aware than on that morning when I boot in woke
up on the river. The night before we had found a dead arm of the silted stream in the water, still
as a lake, under a green blanket strange marsh plants lay, and there was no way, the boats through
the mud of the shore to dry land to Pull Panya had come to spend the night on the water. It
had escaped me before morning, that the boat in which I was asleep,
was again thrust into the flow, and so awakened I first, as already
the sun was shining, and the soft singing of the water made my slightly
bewildered Sense.

I remembered only slowly able, and even my life had for me Moments blurred. In a liberated from
all era advancement of my consciousness I was only one certainty: The sun shines on the earth,
call in the trees alive Creatures, and you yourself live.

Such moments often seem in a later memory it very meaningful, because they grow with distance, and
because the memory of the events not of its duration and to preserve their value usually, but according
to the measure of their urgency. And if an experience our memory is left depends little on
its apparent importance. Rather, It usually so inconspicuous, and often downright petty events
which our memory indelibly preserved, that we treat her just a smile, not realizing that their
forces own moral realm represent the mystical nature to our will in no As is a child. "If God's
eyes, which never ceased, the regions of his creation roam, take our lives, the moment will
remain in our memories forever liable, "said once a Buddhist monk
from Kashmir to me, in search of the Malabar traversed by a sacred
tree with gray flowers. Thus, the hours of life, which we have considered
to be large, often dependent child small individual cases in which
they sit in order not to sink into the darkness. -

I sat up in the
boat and slide saw the shore, they were overgrown so thick that it
seemed like we were between green walls crumbled on a quiet, hasty
flight, between Walls apart soon departed soon successive zurückten.
The immortal sky blue, unreal in its sparkling color silence stretched
out over it, and sometimes shot the dazzling rays of the morning sun
in my eyes and closed them.

The past day had been full of complaints,
and we had Uppanangadi only with difficulty achieved without having
looked at the city and no longer rest made it out of consideration
as to the rower was required. Their activity was in the beginning
of our journey more in taxes as in rowing, they did it standing, and
by depending on the direction to be complied with had their oars to
the right or left of the canoe dived into the water. This was done
with great Skill and spoke at length. It had occurred frequently,
while still on the Kumardary swam, that the boats be sailed on sand
banks, we then had the water and they do join forces afloat again.
Sometimes we circled gently, but very persistent, in deep tanks or
slid down low cases, a job, to which my ordinary sense, because the
idea had something quite frightening, had to capsize there and driven
by the muddy waters of the marshy shore to be, or in rapids and deep
whirling with the alligators to come into close contact.

One evening as Robert was going from his mother's house he noticed three or four persons coming
down the street. Their manner might have excited the suspicion of a guilty man; but as Robert
had committed no crime, he relied wholly on his innocence. No sooner had he stepped on the
street, however, than he was arrested.

"Of what offence am I accused?" he asked.

"Treason."

"Treason! it is false; I am guilty of no treason."

The mother and sister, hearing the angry words without, hurried to the street to find him in
custody. Wringing their hands in an agony of distress, they demanded to know the cause of the
arrest, and were informed that Robert had been accused of treason to the governor and must
be committed to jail.

Robert slept behind iron bars that night. He had many friends in the town, who no sooner learned
of his arrest, than they began to appeal to the governor for his release. Among them was Drummond,
Cheeseman and Lawerence; but all supplications and entreaties were of no avail. Hugh Price
made a pretence of defending his wife's son; but the hollow show of his pretended interest
was apparent.

One night, as he was lying on his hard prison bunk, Robert heard the sound of footsteps without.
Some persons were working at the front door with a key. They seemed to be exercising due caution,
and soon the door was open.

They came to the door of his cell. For a long time it seemed to baffle them, but at last it
yielded, and the door opened.

"Who are you?" asked the prisoner, as three dark forms appeared before him.

"Friends," a voice which he recognized as Mr. Edward Cheeseman's whispered. "We have come to
liberate you."

He was led from the jail, and then, by the dim light of the stars, he recognized William Drummond,
Edward Cheeseman and Mr. Lawerence.

"There is a ship in the harbor ready to sail for Boston," said Mr. Lawerence. "You will go
aboard of her and escape."

"Can I see my mother and sister before I go?"

"They are waiting on the beach," Drummond answered.

Thanking his liberators, he followed them from the jail to the beach. It was midnight, and
the stars looked coldly down on the youth as he hurried from the prison. His proud spirit rebelled
at flying from home. He had done no wrong and consequently had nothing to fly from; but when
his mother threw her arms about his neck and implored him to go, he assented.

"I shall appeal to the king, show him my wrong and obtain my right."

"Have you money?" asked Mr. Drummond.

"None." 

"Do 'light,' I cried, because I suspected Panya present. "Why do you come?"

"It's to no light is to be done, Sahib, get up, a stranger is there
to talk up the wants, he says, the Brahmin Mangeshe Rao send him.

"

It was Mangeshe Rao Panja itself had advised me, by no means a visit to the night to receive,
asking that no light would be lit, but I'm finally my opponent does not much more of me than
I of him, and the name of my friend made me into submission.

The Brahmin was strangely disfigured by an unusual dress, I sent out to his desire Panja.

We sat opposite a dull glow from the stars illuminated the area of ​​the window sparse, I thought
now that I was able to distinguish Mangeshe Rao's face, to recognize that it was narrow and pale,
but it might stem from the insecure night light. It seemed to me he ranks with the decision internally
to a confession, a desire to have the trouble of recent days to express a word of complaint,
but it came to any of this.

He said after a while of silence in which I had the opportunity to the curious distortion to
be considered, which led to his night clothes, quietly and directly:

"Tomorrow will be the soldiers of the government in your home for the documents of a conspiracy
Who seek to be spread over the entire country, and their followers
in Mangalore suspected.

I am, as you know, is suspected, a fellow feeling of discontent to
be, and since I used to go in your home and out, brings you to your
person in Relationship with my interests.

"

"A conspiracy?" I asked in alarm.

Mangeshe Rao waited to see if I would add something, but I found nothing at the moment one,
this nocturnal encounter, the outlook for the next day and that revelation now confused me
in equal measure, as it stimulated me. How different things before deciding looked as a romantic
hotel.

"There are conspiracies in this country almost daily," Mangeshe Rao said slowly, and as he should
think about other things.

"They are discovered and thwarted, and if they are not discovered be, so they break therefore
not enough. The English officials need entertainment and a field for their zeal. We feel the
same. "

He turned away in secret doubts and looked with a sad expression in
the dim Night out.

You could hear the crickets cheap, a few stars were like sparks in the plumage of the Papaya
crowns.

"Unfortunately, I have" a good conscience, I said.

Strange and foreign land to me, this was never appeared. I knew the conservative nature of the
Brahmin-sufficient, to know that he far more hidden, as he had seen, also had no words to me so
decisively on the Importance of his case and convince the state of
affairs can be as nocturnal Visit did.

It had fallen on that day for a short rain showers, it penetrated through the bars of the cool
window open to us in and went with fragrance and fine blades into the dark corners of the
room. I felt as if I was dreaming.

"What can I do?" I asked.

Mangeshe Rao opened his robe over his chest and took out some tied packet, to contain the papers
or letters appeared, I saw dimly, however, the packaging such that one could easily conclude such
things.

"You want to hide these documents in your home," he said calmly.

I said yes, his question without hesitation, the moment only in quick considerations busy which
place would be my apartment or my garden is most appropriate. I was not Moment in the sense that it is
in Mangalore hiding suspicious enough for a handful of had to give papers, and the thought
of being abused around me was so far away, I deeply steeped in character and value was the
man who asked me.

Later, I often need to remember the sensations in the soul of a young man Decisions similar to
term assets, and how often your alignment to such play along as the willing in fact needs. It
may, some people of a quick decision, perhaps brought the unthinking lawyer offers a moment
with him Has to have the freedom of his entire youth and brought to the price of his active
life.

I reached for the packet. "Exit" on me, I said. In that came to Sense that my friend had just
informed me, that I tomorrow with a house search expected to have, and I asked a question to
see cleared up these strange relationships.

"I want that those documents" are found in you, "said Rao Mangeshe.

He said low and leaning forward, but without enthusiasm and without the desire, my mysterious
his disposal by to make. Who treads in India's own interest and dangerous ways knows that, only the
walls hide eavesdropper, but also that of the night, the women and the best Friends may threaten
danger. I sensed his concern and said:

"My servant is reliable."

Mangeshe Rao shook his head. "He's a child," he said. "Attitude and sincerity without cunning
are as traitors for everyone with us, who knows the resources of his enemies. They must come
from a country in which the boldness and strength in addition to
the daring than high fame are, whether they belong to the glory of
a free people, this people has its Freedom almost forgotten.

"

Something overcame me after these words to a sadness in which I to the first time the love of
my heart for this man felt in all its depth, and I would like to plead with him to make this
futile and evil battle. I was clear that his being under all the power of his mind not the
weapons of his opponents grow was overwhelmed because the high-minded people in the struggle
with the humility of the last disgust, but I kept quiet out of respect for the fire that was burning
in his soul.

Mangeshe Rao continued: "Make it the seeker not too easy, but you wear Ensure that they find
the papers in any case.

If the accident that so much to play there love, where the intent is most clearly frustrate the success
of the English, so betrayed The document in that it, try to hide
awkward in appearance, while is still being sought.

"

He broke off suddenly, and waited as an objection, but I said the distrust or not the concerns
of which he seemed to think with me, because there is no suspicion of his friend in my heart was,
and because I knew he would never ask something of me, that he served by it damaged me. He explained
the intention of this action he pursued:

"Our time has not come yet," he said simply, "the remains, that in
your home be made, are innocent nature, but still significant enough
to be important as a apply to discovery.

                  The suspicion is deflected by these documents and the track be blurred,
we will study its contents grateful as a result of the investigation
and measure to him the nature and extent of those intrigues, which
have aroused suspicion.

Some our friends will be exposed, but they are willing to make the case the victim, which is to
serve a small sentence. One will not last much longer experience have brought, as is already
known anyway. "

"They tell me much," I said gratefully and full of admiration for the skill of the plan.

"You deserve the trust mean," Rao said Mangeshe simple, and a warm look that the measure of this
cool always so controlled trains broke through, my eyes met briefly and sad.

I asked them how I would behave myself towards an interrogation, which then conducted research, as the
papers had come into my house.

"They call 'my name, decided Mangeshe Rao.

"And if you even take a penalty?"

"They will not dare, and stand by that which we have advanced, but better It would be one dared
to punish me because my confidence would save those for which I wear them. The more the government
protects me, the sooner, the Brahmins of Mangalore consider me an apostate. My openness to the
priests box itself would be a traitor bring in his own camp, however, makes them suspicious of my
caution. It is difficult in dark forest to walk a straight path.

"

* * * * *

Bright new day was rising over Mangalore. I rode in advance of the sun peaks the brown colored
pagodas, through the swampy mangrove thickets of river valleys in Panja accompanied, like in an idea
of ​​the oncoming events not from my side more. A strange alien was in my eyes over the landscape,
its animals and plants and above all things.

When I next to a wooden shed a boat in the dark water saw, on which a Hindu sat shivering in
the cold morning air and, still dazed from sleep, stared into the shimmering green space, that
day I came to my mind, to which I at the beginning my jungle ride in Tschirakal was at the
Watarpatnamsee Panja and with the Muslims fought at the cost of the canoes.

The experiences and the pictures of my trip went up with the rising day by my memory, with their brilliance
and their worries and their unceasing desire of my heart, it would in this country home purchase
rights and the relationships that lead to intimacy for love.

Huc, the monkey sat in my dream, with old eyes to me, prophetic and wise, of those hopes of the
groaning creation tires that are as old as the fate of the earth.

Was it the unrest, hatred and bitterness of the new people of my experience and small yet very
important interests, which destroyed my faith in the harmony, which the pristine nature and the great
sea had taught me? I never seemed to me stray in this world of working, as on that morning,
and I wish I would have left everything behind, to move to the new shade of green in the durchklungenen
wilderness safety and might threaten the welfare of the poor life, but the path of the soul to
that recognition prepared, which alone can bring peace.

But my desire seemed to me soon after as a propensity to flee, waiting as obligations and my
other duties in a country in a region whose efforts and goals, I linked by lineage and tradition
was, and for the first time in years, turned my inner eyes across
the sea toward the homeland.

I was thinking that the man who now has long been one my deepest sympathy, as in a melancholy sense
of loss of one's gender and race, the near-fame and the hope of my foreboding had spoken, and
I felt the power of his faith as a legacy of conscience . Glow -

The day's events was similar, as I expect them to Mangeshe Rao words had. Around midday, reported
a young officer, who was accompanied by three soldiers, at me. He took his duty extremely important,
he tried to give the impression that as he was the king of England, and I answered his pathetic
adoption so that I handed him my pocket knife when he demanded my sword. He had to laugh and
seemed to reflect the fact that a private citizen and not recruit a German, no English Subject
is, I reminded him that a suspect does not prove itself and I do
not document was suspicious.

His self-consciousness in uniform again, as the papers were found, and to be Request I accompanied
him in the ox cart to the government building. He was polite way, quiet and very serious, and
I was glad my friend's secret of a successful plan.

By the way looked at this public intervention into the private rights of a number of residents
Mangalore the military apparatus of sudden weight much more. From the windows of government
buildings I saw from out at sea the low square outline of a gunboat,
the black and menacing in the quiet blue sponge, as drawn with charcoal.

The unfriendly court the building was swarming with soldiers. For a moment I was overcome with a feeling
of hot concern to Mangeshe Rao skill. The closest impressions are especially the strongest, if
the prospects of the parties not to overlook. Panya dead pale face I went like a ghost after
he was petrified at the garden left behind, I did not know, whether he had understood my orders to expect
me in the evening, and I fear seriously he would commit some heroic stupidity.

After a two-hour waiting period in which I have a true-hearted sentry with a number the most terrible
jungle tales in their belief in witches and evil spirits and encouraged
them with cigarettes again reassured the collector appeared and gave
his word to the English Colonel opposite, who accompanied him, for
my innocence. It probably had a more detailed Negotiations have preceded
me, the officer apologized politely but somewhat irritated with me,
apparently he remembered the fact that I made the acquaintance Mangeshe
Rao owed his mediation, and that I am not good since those days to
a dangerous Revolutionaries had been able to grow. It also seemed
to emerge from all that is the Brahmins wanted to spare. A recruit
was on his way to pick up my horse, and I adopted a little callous
and casual. It apparently worked.

Panja received me happy and proud
I felt as if he was ashamed of his fears, he now me safe and sound
in our house once more, but neither his joy over his own relief let
me breathe. It drove me the rest of the day passed in great anxiety
of a on the other hand, nothing would succeed me, nothing bothered
me seriously, I waited and did not know what.

In the evening I sent
to Mangeshe Rao Panja. He did not hit him in his home, but at least
I learned that he had been left at large, although I did for now a
satisfaction or choose a new concern could.

From these hours I harassing
a small incident of no significance is so vivid in my memory remained,
as did my concern is only shot at him. In the brief twilight, as already
The moon shone, and I stayed with my cigar in a deck chair on the
porch, I saw a moving shadow on the garden gate. I watched him for
a while without him attach weight I finally called Panya, who went
out and immediately afterwards gave birth to me, me with calm eyes
looked long and dared not speak. There was a girl of about thirteen
Years, dressed in a red gown, with her hair to his face and Education
belonging to the lower castes.

"Whither has he gone?"

"Alas, I know not."

"What would be his fate if he should be taken?"

"He would suffer as did Sir Henry Vane. No mercy will be shown to a regicide."

"You must suffer uneasiness."

"I am in constant dread, though my father is brave and shrewd, while the king's officers are
but lazy fellows with dull wits, who do not care to exert themselves, yet some unseen accident
might place him in their power."

Then he induced her to tell the sad story of their flight from the wrath of an angry king,
and how they had walked all the way from Plymouth to Boston.

The year 1675 came, just one century before the shots at Lexington were heard around the world.

There was a restless feeling in all the colonies. The governor of Virginia was a tyrant. Bagpipe Tiidu 318-340

    24. The sprung from the egg princess 341-355

Notes 356-365

Corrections and additions 366

1. The Gold spinners. [1]

I will tell you a nice story from the legacy of the past, what was going on, than in the Anger in the
old way of the wisdom and the language of tetrapod feathered resounded.

    There once was before time in a deep
    forest, a lame old fresh with three
    daughters: her hut was hidden in
    the thicket.

The daughters were blooming beautiful flowers just around the mother withered stump, especially
the youngest sister was beautiful and graceful like a Bohnenschötchen. But in this loneliness,
there was no other spectator as the day the sun, and at night the moon and the eyes of the
stars.

"Burning hot young man with eyes Was the sun on her head-dress, Shining on the colorful ribbons,
Reddened the bright fringes. "

The old mother would not let the girls go idle, nor be in default, but to keep them from Morning
until evening to work on, sitting day after day at the spinning wheel and spun golden flax into
yarn. The poor things was indulged in neither Thursday nor Saturday [2] evening leisure, the
enriching gifts box, [3] and if not at dusk or in moonlight furtive As the knitting needle was made
available so the box had no growth. Was the Kunkel spun, it was set up immediately a new one
and also had just the yarn, twist and be fine.

The finished yarn held with the old lock and key in a secret Chamber, where the daughters were
not set her foot. Where the gold flax brought into the house has been, or were spun into what kind of fabric,
the yarns, which was not the spinners become known and the mother were never answer to such
questions. Two or three times in each Sommer made the old woman a journey, not one knew where
was, and sometimes from more than a week and always came back at night time, so that the girls
never knew what brought them had. Before they departed, they shared each time the daughters
for as many days from work than she thought auszubleiben.

Now again the time had come, where the old woman wanted to take their walk. Cocoon to six days
the girl was doled out, while once again impressed the old admonition: "Children let your eyes
wander and not hold the fingers sent to the thread in the bobbin
not torn, otherwise the gloss of the Gold yarn disappear, and with
your happiness, it would !

Also be made of 'The girls laughed at them forcefully given a warning; even before the Mother on
her crutch ten steps had come very far from home, they started all
three of to mock. "This ridiculous prohibition, which is always repeated,
would not have been necessary for us," said the youngest sister. "The
tears Goldgarnfaden not plucking, let alone the . Spiders "The other
sister added:" As little, it is possible that the gold shine is lost.
"girls' curiosity has often been derided Some hasty, from which at
last arose after much jubilation Thränenjammer.

On the third day
after the mother took an unexpected departure the incident, which
the daughters at first fright, then joy and happiness, should prepare
for a long time but grief.

One morning when he had made his fruitless pilgrimage to his point of observation, he sat down
upon a stone and, passing his hand over his eyes, brushed away a tear which came unbidden there.

"Alas, I am doomed to pass my life here. Never more can I see my home, friends or kindred;
but on this desolate shore I must end my existence. Fifteen years have come and gone--fifteen
long years since I left my home. 1869th

Preface.

In the third volume of Children's and Household Tales Wilhelm Grimm on page 353 of the edition
of 1856 attention to it until the time ehstnischen known fairy tales, and S. 385 including
the first of Faehlmann in 1842 in the first volume of the negotiations the learned society ehstnischen
Dorpat published graceful poetry and Koit Ämmarik highlighted. In more detailed form, the
latter later (1854) by Dr. = = Friedrich Kreutzwald given me and from me in the Bulletin of
the St. Petersburg Academy = T. XII .= 3, 4 (also in the Mélanges Russes = = = .= T. II p. 409) in
the essay to ehstnischen mythology was "printed. Ibid Even I have also the possibility of borrowing
this seal of a neighboring nation attention. are in such borrowings, the Estonians not poorer
than other nations, and it gives a peculiar interest, more or considered less elsewhere known
substances in their ehstnischen uniforms. Make it A whole number of purely ethnographic and historical
questions to the consideration of their Content.

The translator has deemed it appropriate to point out so many features which the each story
with that of Dr. = = Kreutzwald launched poem "Kalewipoëg" common have. Some things, however, from
not only among the Estonians in circulation story first in the saga and moved them into the epic
songs, but otherwise offers us faithfully obtained traces altscandinavischer myths dar. Have I in
1860 on the occasion the meeting of the Kalewipoëg (II Bulletin as = = = = Mélanges Russes p.
273-297 = B = II = p. 126-161) pointed out how the Kalewipoëg many echoes of the old worship
of Thor present, it can be the same with the right of particular collection, presented in Fairy
tales say. Is taken into account except that of Mr. Leo S. 2 above example, p. 113 Thunderer
belonging to the crop of rowan, and also p. 137, the rudder of the same Wood. See also page
18 on the mountain ash occurring as the Thunderer holy man Hardt Germanic Myths p. 13 f.

When, in 1855 about the content of the myths Finnish fairy tale (=
Bullet.

Philol hist T. XII .= 24) briefly reported, were known by the ehstnischen fairy tale, very
few, and all the rich literature of the Russian fairy tale, from us in the years of Afanasyev
1855-1863 collection published in eight volumes gives an idea was only a few samples accessible.
probably not the case a thorough study of the aforementioned collection alone Finnish fairy
tales in a different light appear, but the real ehstnischen can be assessed.

Apart from the W. Grimm cited designated collections are different
tale ehstnische been published, notably in the vintages 1846, 1848,
1849, 1852 and 1858 of the "domestic" in Illustrirten reval between
1855 and 1856 almanac and elsewhere, a fairly detailed listing the
same will be in = = Dr. Winkelmann's now being printed Livonia Bibliotheca
historica = = See p. 39 ff.

Most notably are those of the other also to the literature of Estonians deserved two men in Tallinn
and Friedrich Heinrich Neus Kreutzwald in Werro communicated Fairy tales. The latter of the two men
also received by the Finnish Literature Society issue in Helsingfors the honorable order, a comprehensive
collection of ehstnischen fairy tale. This collection, comprising 368 pages 43 major and 18 smaller
pieces, was published in Helsingfors in 1866 to publishers in the Literary Society with the permission
of the latter and the Lord Kreutzwald Mr. Lion, who during his stay in Ehstland has acquired the knowledge
to recognize worthy ehstnischen language, this translation made, which is recommended by itself so that
a recommendation from my side would be superfluous. The reader of this kind creations of folk poetry be
it no less than I do that as soon as possible appears to continue the translation.

Finally, I can communicate the good news that in a short time, the publication several by Mr.
Hurt, Jakobson from the vernacular of recorded ehstnischer Fairy tales in the writings of the
learned ehstnischen society is to be expected in Tartu.

St. Petersburg, 8 (20) February 1869th

A. Schiefner.

Content.

Page

                                                       

1. The Gold spinners 1-24

2. The moonlight bathing maidens 25-31

3. Pressing on up the steep side, scaling cliffs and rocks, which
at times almost defied their skill and strength, the air grew cooler. The vegetation was less
rank. The grass grew short and in places there was none at all.

"Are you tired?" John asked.

"Not much."

"Let us sit and rest."

"The sun has almost reached the meridian, and we are not half-way up the mountain."

"Yet you must have a few moments' rest, Blanche."

They rested but a moment and again pressed on. They had now reached a great altitude, and the
valley below looked like a fairy-land. They found up here a species of mountain goats which
they had not seen before. They were very shy of the intruders and went bounding away from cliff
to cliff and rock to rock at a speed which defied pursuit.

John shot one. The report of his musket in this lofty region was so slight as to be heard but
a short distance, but the birds, soaring aloft, screamed with fear and went still higher up
the mountain sides.

Here they found squirrels more abundant than in the valley. The oaks and hickory trees bore
an abundance of nuts for them. Further on the nut-bearing trees gave place to grass, and they
found themselves on a sloping plain.

Every hour seemed bringing them to new and unexplored regions. Old Snow-Top, as they called
the mountain, contained wonders. The trees had dwindled to dwarfs, and the animals degenerated
in proportion. Some fur-bearing animals were found in these lofty regions, and the eyrie of
the eagle was in the cold, dark cliffs.

There was a perceptible change in the climate. The clothing suitable for the valley was uncomfortably
light in this region.

"Blanche, are you cold?" he asked.

She, smiling, answered:

"Never mind me, I can stand it."

"The air is chill."

"It always is so in ascending a lofty mountain."

"The ascent is more difficult than I supposed; behold the cliff before us!"

"I see it."

"It seems almost perpendicular."

"So it does."

"I see no way to scale it from here."

"Yet, like all other ills in this world, the difficulties may disappear at our approach."

When they advanced toward the cliff, fully two hundred feet in height, a narrow rocky slope
was seen ascending on the left, like a flight of winding stairs, to the plateau above. Even
with this aid the ascent was difficult.

The rocks were rough, hard and sharp at the edges and corners, yet they climbed on and on.
Each succeeding ledge to which they mounted grew narrower until scarce room for the foot could
be found. 

To the north, to the dark cliffs broke off suddenly, and it spread as far as the eye could
see, from the free bay, white sand. Often, palm trees grew, especially when they gave a smaller
stream escorted to close down to the beach. There, one could see still close to the place of the
natives, the colorful boats lined up in the sand, and more also began a stillness and desolation,
which was probably done to a sensitive heart to attract.

There I was often the water, I dug into the sand and threw the burden of my useless thoughts far
from me. It was wonderful to listen to the voice of the sea to dominate the world appeared, and to
see the endless, smooth waves, which would run as smooth Wind waves under pale blue silk, and
silently raised with jubilant Erbrausen in a broad band of light break, throwing on the beach
patient. It went away for so long so as only ever been able to indulge the senses with patience
and dream, as does the sea no time. His voice is neither hopes nor promises, no love and no
Threatens neither appeasement nor divination. The essence of the sea has no community with
ours, and nothing but a blissful strife awakens in us when we look to him approach seek only its
size raises us, like all great forms to the mind an idea of ​​future Freedom to communicate.
The sea contains no standards for our rights and our obligations like the earth, it provides us with
us and fed, and used their fate to ours is. The poets have understood the sea rare, they're just
described, but who would get through them a picture of his immense power and freedom when he sea
had never seen? Only in that over fading into the mystical spirit of the great, gottberauschten
Enthusiast of the apocalypse comes on a prophetic light on the nature of the sea, when he
the millennium in his infinite vision, sees the sea and says it is no more. Recognizing this, a profound
idea is the essence of the sea, not as the earth seems cursed, and no court, no return and no
change assumed is.

And so will the sea has no affinity with the soul of man, as some have found that neither the one
nor the other know, and only because they sniff some ground in the
soul-less, come up with the idea that they might as deep as the ocean
in the middle.

This is a reckless conclusion to prove the difficult is the only similarity between these
souls and the sea is that you often in both around fishing without catching anything. -

Once I found on the beach some large sea turtles that lay on his back and after Water snapped.
From the traces of bare feet, they as a load-independent in the sand laurel wreath was surrounded,
be removed easily, that these animals do not go voluntarily into
such a position and that had a human purpose, combined with this cruelty.

And really looked I take refuge under the trees a brown Hindu boy, whose respect was so great
to me, that he climbed up a palm tree at the top.

The tortoises were in this restriction of movement a slow death in the merciless sun exposure,
which was the more painful as they do not like fish quickly die when they were snatched from
their element, but a tough life prove it on dry land.

In fact, even the facial expression one of them already very upset, the other was hanging head
down ugly strange already lifeless, on the wrinkled neck, which seemed like a faded, cracked hose.
I returned with great difficulty to those who still seemed lively enough for a continuation
of their existence, but they staggered drunkenly back and forth and found the water until I showed
them the path. There, they swam quickly and excited and also appeared as soon as possible to,
obviously in doubt as to whether that operation was a fact or just another horrible idea Sonnentod
in their delirium.

Later I learned that the animals are transported by the natives in that position, so they die
because they can not turn back from its own resources again. In this way, win the people the very
coveted tortoise shell, without an intervention in the lives of animals
make what is forbidden and is also contrary to their convictions.

The animals die in this way by the will of the deity and not be so after the launch of the
Hindus of people killed, apparently be seen from the fact that the gods of the turtles not then
turn around, it had decided to let them die for the benefit of mankind.

Incidentally, I had ruined it with that final artisan caste in Cannanore, for just that boy
who had turned me respect, from his lofty hiding from my actions perceived and he took occasion
to spread this news in Cannanore.

There were many crabs on the beach and all kinds of small sea scum, which I took in, rats were
also sometimes the streams down and explored whether the sea or washed
up dead ausgewühlt had.

A particular caste in Malabar plague victims buried her in the sand by the sea, and while most
of the sand banks and islands will be selected, but often there are also traces of the graves
on the coast.

Once I made the acquaintance of a large fly that had only one wing
and the Rest of their lives on the shore seemed to spend.

I watched while I on the beach lay and smoked. They picked out the stones that were particularly
round, bright and hot, and it seemed that they preferred the white. If she sat for a while on
such a had, she took another in the eye and tried it with a sudden flight to achieve But each
time she landed on some third, because, unfortunately, the absence of its one Wing in complying
with the direction became apparent.

Every time she looked a bit puzzled at first about him, but then showed
her remarkable Fate, always somewhere else to have to land as they
wanted.

With a somewhat troubled, but not stimulated expression of it was based on their specific environment,
including the sun shone again, and she remained sitting in the hot light shining from the water.

I
took a tendency to this volatile friend of my lonely hours on the beach. So very much better it was
finally in life, not me, and basically there were two of us to the
sun.

I told her how I did it with existence, but because they are not on I stayed, I would throw small stones
at her, the fun of the round of their brothers Millennia and gobbled happily rattled. Most of these
stones were beautifully rounded, I took one of them in the warm hand and polished him anxiously.
"You're not yet round enough, my boy, "and I threw it back into the sea, so it the water for
a few another thousand years has been polished. It occurred to me in a thousand years of not, any
more than to one day. But perhaps this stone would not forget me, surely it was him have not
done that one of these ephemeral little people took care of him and suddenly such a change in
his development was unhurried.

The sea was light and lovely thoughts in my mind, foolish and wise, but never heavy. His gifts were
a dream, forget and sleep, they went with the shimmering, hot Air
into unknown regions up and carried them away from the volatile sea
breeze.

People my bygone life embroiled in a shimmering universe, in which I unsubstantial as Herself drifted,
and the love was a memory.

Never, however, that boredom or discontent plagued me, life was a flawless vessel filled old
wine with a clear sense of sweet joy and pleasure being cheerful.

I understood the People of this country and this sun, which seemed to move no other desire than
the Existence in such a way as to savor the blissful existence and workings of the automatic
First marriages and death, the perishable good things of the earth over time and at random content
without hesitation, left to see. What was the ignoble cause a pro-less sordid, which was kindred
spirit in a deep revelation of the noble inaction sinking in a clairvoyant's humility of self-restraint.

Sometimes
I paid on the shore of death a small down payment on his future rights and fell asleep, but
was the voice of the sea water with me in the dark, quiet country. The Monotony of his fresh
voice in my dreams turned into an eloquent gloss of great variety,
and I heard tales of miracles and destruction of the world, covering
a whole would fill book, but something prevented the wisdom of the
seawater me from such foolish to adopt plans.

"I say it all," it said calmly, "why do you want to do it? No one will hear things from people
who are not his natural world, and you who do not even you understand yourself how you want me,
the sea, recorded in his holy beings? "When I woke up I saw the evening glow on the silver
bar of the ocean waves large and close a black Red sky in the boat slip pass away, which was powered
by four men standing rowed, and I also appeared black because the light behind them, I say the blinding.

Maybe
they went out into the distance, maybe they came home, I knew of them as little as me.

* * * * *

A regrettable event of the period, the value of my character in the eyes of the inhabitants Cannanore
put seriously in question, I still vividly remember. Of youth I have experienced on the slope
to collect butterflies and beetles, but unfortunately it on this
Area never committed to success, on the contrary, went with me always
noticeable mishap in such enterprises, and it was proven no blessing
on it.

The magnificent box with a glass lid, which my parents gave me to support my educational tendency
soon became a gold mine of cheap food for a small, lausartige variety
of parasites, the experience of my insect attacked and eaten.

                  On the advice of an experienced School friend I acquired through
the magnificent agents, the naphthalene is mentioned, but The parasites
also fell on the naphthalene, ate it and prospered it visibly.

So I saw the results of my efforts to shame to reddish on flea, the high-perched on a rusty pin and
was barely larger than their button.

It would certainly have been better if I look at these experiences of my youth in India would have
taken advantage of, on the other hand, it will be understood by all that my old passion in
the extremely diverse and beautiful world of India insects stimulated again was. I suggested Panya
objections and went ahead in Cannanore announce that I adult or children for every butterfly or beetle
that I would put in my office, to pay the price of one Anna was ready.

The morning after the rally I was awakened by a strange noise in the morning before my House which
I tried in vain to recognize at first, until I finally brought, that there was a murmur of people.
Terrified, I went to the window and saw now a strikingly overall
number of people, children, old people, women with babies on their
hips, men and youths, and there was no shortage of beggars, street
prostitutes and vagrants.

The series made obedient to the arch of the garden path, weaving through the open gate and then
went on to Cannanore. There was no telling how long it was, this experience was saves me initially,
as life with hard blows of fate his victims sometimes thereby relieved that it does not immediately
reveal the fullness of adversity.

Panya said: "Sahib, the people bring the animals."

I must confess that I fell into great confusion and could take only with difficulty, but I managed
it because I do not begrudged the triumph Panja, behind his quiet eyes lurked, which rested at
an angle and without interruption to me expectantly.

"Do you have enough small change?" I asked him happy while I dressed quickly. Panja asked me
seriously if I had enough large.

I took Elijah to me, put on the cork helmet and bravely entered the
porch of my house.

An approving murmur of anticipation greeted me. Law occasionally when I would only because to
do a few steps in the freshness of the garden, I stepped up to the door and looked down the
road to Cannanore.

The chain of people waiting stretched further when My eyes ranged far under the umbrella of the
wild fig trees, they ran in the shadow of leaves like a black coal
line, on the red Latrittweg.

Elias moved quietly back into the house, because this sight was new to him, and on the porch I
was greeted again Panya quietly wait- Eyes: he had carried out a lawn chair for me.

I had no choice but to start out as. So I sent for Passover with a handful of Rupees for returning
to the city because I needed Panja as interpreter, he would probably until the evening failed
to make me thus to prevent the success of my company.

The first of many new arrivals was a fat little boy with beautiful
dark Eyes and completely naked.

In the tightly closed little fist, which he hinreckte me brave and stiff with dirt, dust, I discovered
the remains of a small moth that completely crushed and was muddy. I administered an Anna to not having
a negative decision to Beginning and the little naked hunters away
with a happy set, without his dared to break into the jubilation that
he expanded his chest.

Apparently he had to last not believed in the success of this business. Panja looked after
him and said spitefully: "Heading he is grooming himself, and then it closes back up again.
"

The next of those waiting was an old man in the lean hand a green bag a large sheet covered up,
he zuhielt above. There are white ants were in it, of which swarmed my house, and he was herzugetreten
with the hope that his animals get rewarded individually. I turned him away as he lay down on the
requests and began the to tell stories of his family, who seemed
to be not in fact gone well; I had two Anna, and he walked away with
an envious look at my coins, after he had instructed me to hand over
two ants.

I can not mention everything that I on this morning in worms, flies, vermin and Insects has
happened, I was able to appreciate India's abundance of these creatures. An old woman brought
a chicken that had been eaten by rats in half and no had more feathers. She hoped that I would
to my collection because they do not had the right idea of ​​my interests. A girl, blooming
like the sunny morning, in which they stood before me, so here, had
a truly beautiful butterfly from the Size of a songbird, orange yellow,
with delicate violet at the edges, but he was between their fingers
crushed, like a tram ticket in a glove.

I looked at the child and the splendor of his big innocent eyes that seemed like a dark brown
velvet Silk laid. Millennium old dreams burst forth from them, quiet and sad, poppy and Sleep. I was
overcome with a sudden change my feelings and sadness, suddenly became I nullity of the whole
project in my embarrassingly clear conscious. How did I can fall into the error of believing
that we are the glories of nature and thereby come only a little more detail that we hold their
products in glass and in boxes. I suddenly felt myself as a multiple murderer, and in front
of me was waiting for the army of the bloody Warrior of their wages. Since I gave the child
the rest of the money that Pasha had brought me and got up to let it be known that my claims
were satisfied, and that I no other insects require more.

Chapter Three

The night with Huc, the monkeys

One morning on the porch of my house in a brown Cannanore Hindu boy who a monkey on his shoulder
wearing. How long had he been standing there, I did not know because care for the natives to
maintain it until it please the foreign masters, to speak to her. Even if they accept to have been
seen long ago, they continue waiting patiently for hours, whether
it's also like to note it.

That fact gave me the first time in my Indian Stay often introduced
a non-gentle fright, because even if a servant of the house enters
a room, he still waits near the Lord, until it is addressed.

It happened me in Bijapur, where I started my journey in the middle
of old crumbling royal palaces my camp was pitched that night because
suddenly I feel at my desk won, someone was behind me.

Such fear is of abandonment in the dead of night much more frightening than the certainty
of a sudden, unexpected encounter. I know today exactly, that I dared not take long for me to
look around, and when I finally Slowly, inch by inch did, and suddenly the outline shape of a brown,
dark in dark saw behind me started up, as if it was the bad guy himself, who struck me. The messenger
had in the firm belief that I had long since taken note of his presence, modest and patiently waiting
for my title. As the Hindus the passage of bare feet, even on a Coir mat, clearly heard, they
do not understand without training, that our ear to clearer Evidence of an approach is used.
Fortunately, at that time was terrified of the night-comer so hard over my shock that delivered
me a laugh, and pulled up my horror.

A large number of reporters of today's India say in books and journals again, this land of mysteries
and miracles, and had long been stripped of all mysticism. They probably know of India, only
the new-fashioned hotel. I have the poetic splendor the Vedas and the spirit of Kalidasa found
anywhere and appreciate the first in the country itself rather grasp and learned, and the disenchantment
of the modern prophet of regret I only have the Kummer reply that my powers are not sufficient,
mystic of the glories and the mysterious magic of all appearances to give a right picture. However,
if you the wonders of India in the art of conjuring investigated and disappointed if he does
not Opportunity should be taken to climb up on a free-hanging rope, his Estimates do not see fulfilled,
but it is not only in India but all over the world be disappointed
when he thinks he can do something right without some right to privacy.

For the mystical is not the dark and unclear, even threatening the fantastically incomprehensible
or mysterious events, but it encloses, its deeper significance, much rather the certainty of
eternal truths in its continuing effect beyond our knowledge.

That boy now that I found outside my home, offered me his monkeys for sale, I learned Panja by
his offer and the useful purpose that for any garden owner with the possession of a monkey you
through. He collected the coconuts from the palms, "I said Panya. The small, gray-brown animal,
which is about the size of a fox terrier had watched me from his rose from his seat quietly
in old trains. It was attached to a chain, the end a ring around his loins was gaunt. The
boy agreed to show off his monkey and in fact the animal was extremely well informed. As soon
as he was of his Bondage freed, as he climbed a palm tree at high speed, a large nut turned
back and set the patient was again after the nut had fallen, and he to much more slowly climbed down again.
Panya was negotiating with the boy because of the purchase price, and as I understand, no,
the observed two, I saw that a visible Concern the face of the Hindu
boy afflicted.

He seemed anxious and sad. "He will only let his monkey, "Panya said," it is because he is a
fool. "

Things seemed to be different, I saw clearly that the boy burning desire contributed to the purchase
price, which he hoped to achieve, but that he difficult time for all of was able to separate
his monkey.

"Offer him" five rupees purchase price, I said.

Panja offered one. The boy was shaking violently, for even this small sum, which according to our
Money did not matter two marks, it meant a great treasure. Since the emotion the child so fascinated
me, because I thought I clearly feel that not only his Greed moved him, I gave a non Panja unmistakable
sign that I temporarily Obedience demanded of him.

He knew that I knew enough Kannada to control him to, and collapsed into a stance God loyal despair
that he took always when I went to meet my doom, ignoring his willingness to help. "Why Do you
want to sell the monkeys do not, 'I did ask.

"I have otherwise," no property, the child answered.

"But if I give you a large sum, so you can easily buy new monkeys. Offered you five rupees. "

Panja choked at the sum and say they had to go.

The boy was trembling so violently that I would have liked in the
closed arms.

He said hesitantly

"There is no monkey is as good as Huc.

But, "he added quickly and painfully," for this great Sum I will
give it to you.

You will not kill or beat Huc, and if you let I will sometimes come and look through the garden
gate. "

"Why did you sell it if you love your monkey?" I asked.

"Want me to translate something like that really," asked Panja.

I looked at him, and he translated my words like a machine.

"My parents are starving," the child said simply, without complaint and without charge. And in the
course of the conversation I heard a strange story that fascinated me very much. The father this
boy was from the German mission society in a weaving mill, in the Cannanore maintained by the missions
will have been made after he converted to Christianity had. Because he had repeated his work
but in the course guilty of theft Which can he had been dismissed. His tribe, which long regarded
him as an apostate , had now wanted to know on his return in their area, no more of him, and he
was here, as there has become an outlaw, and fall into misery. Now I understood well that you
can use in an industry not thieves, but the thought that the temple, a weaving mill was out
of place, filled me after this experience with many doubts.

The changer and the priests will be no church blessing to serve each other, at least in a
Christian.
I should do in this area still quite entertaining experience, and
I was even before getting to know some of God's messengers, as well
as the spirit and value of their Being.

"What can it contain, that is so heavy?" he thought. He sought to open it; but lock and padlock
were closed, and these faithful guardians seemed unwilling to surrender their trust. Stevens
inserted the sharp end of the crowbar between the box and the lid and, bearing down with all
his strength, burst open the fastenings. Hinges and lock yielded in their turn, holding in
their grasp fragments of the boards, and with a crash he threw off the lid, and all was open.

John Stevens found a tanned fawn-skin spread as a covering over the contents and he tore it
off. He started up with a yell and closed his eyes involuntarily. Then he opened them and stood
motionless with amazement.

Three compartments divided the coffer. In the first blazed piles of golden coin. In the second
bars of unpolished gold were ranged. In the third lay countless fortunes of diamonds, pearls
and rubies, into which he dived his hands as eagerly as a starving man would plunge into food.

After having touched, felt and examined these treasures, John Stevens rushed through the ship
like a madman. He leaped upon the deck, from whence he could behold the sea. He was alone.
Alone with this countless--this unheard-of wealth. Thousand

1920

Publishing the Literary Institute Ruetten & Loening
Frankfurt a. M.

The book was created in 1912.

The first edition was published in autumn 1916th All rights particularly
that of the translation rights.

Copyright 1916 by Literary Agency & Ruetten Loening, Frankfurt a.
M. The cover drawing is by Walter Tiemann.

Pressure of the Spamerschen Book printing plant in Leipzig.

CONTENTS

                 I. From Panja, Elias, and the coil 9 II Cannanore, the fishermen and
the sea 29 III.

     The night with Huc, the 47 monkeys At the grave
    of the IV silver Watarpatnam 65 V. Jungle People
   80 VI. In fever 104 VII in the mountains 123 VIII
    on the throne of the sun 137 IX. The reign of the
     Beast 154 X. Marsh tyrant 168 XI. Mangalore 189
    XII. Of women, saints and Brahmins 207 XIII. The
   last fire and the old spirit 228 XIV The home on
  the 246
    
     First Chapter
    
   By Panja, Elias and the snake
  
   When I Malabar in the blessed province arrived in the city of Cannanore,
led me to the Hindu Rameni wanted before the house that he let me
for the duration of my stay.

It was built in the manner of European houses of India, two storey,
with high overhanging roof and a wide porch that ran along the whole
front.

I saw it, after we We had worked with joint efforts by the overgrown
garden.

Rameni said: "This is my dearest possession on earth. I spared it and protected, and for seven
years no human foot has entered it. Its last occupant was John Ditrey Sahib, an English Officer
of great power, which every soldier rendered obedience, who came near him. He was Every day happy
under the roof and it would be today if the government and it his men would not be sent to
another place. "

I looked at the large, mostly empty spaces where a luxuriant vegetation develops and which had eked
out a wildlife their existence, their diversity my expectations increased to the highest.

"All these animals are innocent," Rameni said kindly, "they will mostly
likely Withdraw because they do not love the company of men.

But since you accompanied you, Sahib, a dog, a servant and a cook have brought, then your mind
from no solitude is ruined. I give to chickens, if you want ... "

Rameni mastered the English language to an extent that I felt my hair is bristle under the cork helmet.

"You too are an Englishman," he said to me when he made a long speech at Sir John Ditrey fame,
had terminated the officer.

I told him that I was a German, and he comforted me.

"I've never heard of this country," he finally said, "but its inhabitants
are considered generous, and perhaps it is richer than the British
Empire.

"

As I understood him, I asked for the price they demand as rent for his property. He then spoke
of other things so eager that my fears grew in space. Finally I succeeded in persuading him to confess,
and he began to reckon with, and added mysterious emotion together, the losses that it incurred
in the seven years were, in which tenants had not found. I watched in silence a people white
Ants, which the boards of the floor and the wall on the cleverest to invest their Localities
had eroded. I'm not going to stop, I'm your rich get under my rule to unimagined bloom, and I
will give you a wise prince and his faithful companion. Through the thicket of palm on the
window shone the morning sun by green Full veil pointed ornaments. The incomprehensible consciousness
that happiness, under which I tremble, since I entered the land of India and for the first time
the smell, the warmth and light of this Country had sucked, I fell again into the heart.

"Fear not, Sahib," said Rameni and counted on his fingers spread spasmodically,
have doubts, hope and expectation almost stunned.

I spoke from my heart, and he raised his hand for the tenth time to again the brown, thin fingers
from right to left to arrange side by side. Then he forgot everything, and said hastily in
inflation and the poor Rice crops. "Each pen will confirm to you," he cried, "shall I call one?"

"How
much you ask?" I said sternly. "I've heard of a house by the sea and the collector is said to have
lived years ago, and the government for a low price hergibt. "

Rameni was with great effort, a jerk and told me that the house in
was probably a rental value of one hundred rupees for the lost seven
years, he wanted me only the fourth part of this sum invoice, on condition
that I was for the next three years ahead of the full price paid.

When I nodded, he turned pale.

"Sahib," he stammered, "you mock your servant?

It is true, I have a great demand made. Forget the seven disastrous years, I am the destiny of heaven
, Especially as they get over is over. If you indeed vorausbezahlst three years, will I serve
you as long as I live. "

I have never felt regret about my willingness and although I only a few months I stayed in Cannanore,
my small sacrifice has been rewarded in the most plentiful way because Rameni placed its whole
glory, to make up the shame I think without him Sake had done. He sent me almost daily eggs and
fruit, fish or poultry and resisted any of my wishes, to facilities or changes in Home and
garden-related. Only when he saw in weeks that I was in a glass case a live cobra talked, he
drew back from me without my threshold to enter again and without touching my hand again. He
avoided less fear, and, I reliably know, not without grief, but because he did not unite with his
beliefs was able to jail a deity to watch through a glass window, which she did. But the time
our community up to this discovery is one of the most amiable Indian memories of my years.

When my luggage was brought in by ox cart from the harbor, I began the establish best located
room for the night, with me my servant and the cook to Panja Went
hand.

Panja warned me often and urgently, but at that time already knew me well enough, to know
that just beyond his fears were only too often the same as my Hopes. The cook, a son from the
mountains of Südmaratta, in Bombay to dealing with Europeans had been accustomed to resistance,
no longer the evil in me. However, it was I am indifferent to him, and he was doing and closed
in stoic silence his duty, stole from me, where he could, and expected to finish my lowered eyelids
fall, he predicted every time when I caught him on an impropriety. Nevertheless, I have always
been a tendency for this stubborn and proud man in his own way felt that could not bring himself
to to bow before the Europeans, and his hatred of the strangers for the love of his homeland sake nourished.
Panya against docile submission, by the way, no low attitude arose, but a child's admiration for
the brilliance of everything foreign, rose the silent Resistance of this strange man from the
worthy. I called him Pasha, because I do not his name could keep. This would have no way skillfully.

When
I stepped onto the porch for me to convince them that the house not flat was salvation, Panya
was sitting on a box of books, smoking, and raised my hammock on the knee.

"She's all torn, he said, without rising, and without, as he initially
did had lapses in my approach in greater working speed.

"Sahib, which is what happens if you have a hammock for fishing in the river using. "

"It was an excellent idea," I apologized. But Panja replied only: "You have taken nothing.
"

I looked at the floors that were everywhere undermined by the ants, the earthenware boards and
rocked almost all declined, or a deep, if you stepped on it, a Sodom
and Gomorrah devastating this nation.

"If you want to see what these animals," Panya said mockingly, "you
must not do it .

Disturb Incidentally, rats in the house, "he added," and at the gate of the Cannanore Pest.
"

"So we've got to keep cats, I decided. "Tomorrow you will go into the city to to buy some.
"

Panja looked at me sympathetically: "Who will pay for a cat," he said, "everywhere they go around.
will live In this house cats. "He was referring to the musk cat, a smaller Kind that I have
encountered much in Malabar, and the elderly in almost any building is missing. So I decided to
wait. But since the rat is considered to be the bearer of plague and this terrible disease still
not extinguished, although the actual rainy season was long past, it is a question to be cautious.
In most cases, the plague goes with the last rain, at the beginning of the Indian Spring, as you
continue bacillus is only in wet conditions.

With the first rain after the hot season, it appears again.

By the way, could the representation of our conversation, a false picture of my position to
Panja and the position of the Europeans to the serving classes of the Hindus ever give. It is
true I had Panja, and indeed all the people who served me, a lot of personal freedom, but my victim
of authority or even of independence were thanked by a gift in return, I have always rated
higher than any other performance, and there was this gift in the frank openness of human being.
The availability of a human being is the least part of its assets, which combines interest extort
me, and all submission with adjustment. The way the British treated the Hindus seals, their characters
and suppresses their true nature, though I admit, without objection, that such comments like theirs,
the indispensable requirement for the control of the country.

But I am not traveled to India to control it.

By the way, there were scenes between Panja and excited me in the struggle for the mastery of
influence. Usually such an appearance ended when I put down these slaves. Were now But my shock
and his sinking down two phenomena which in no way connected each other were, as he frequently
broke down even before my hand had reached him, and, at worst, he knew he was usually turn to
are still in a way or to protect the little more than a deformity of his turban and his oiled
hair hairstyle allowed. However, he broke down every time rolled from one corner of room in
the others complained, crying my ingratitude and the consequences of his loyalty. But before
the evening fell, but he made sure that the burden of such debt to
him I do not Sleep deprived.

"Sahib," he said, and planted himself straight before me, with a pride and dignity transfigured
his features, which met in fact my heart with gratitude. But he did not seem to know to whom
he owed both. "Sahib, how could you forget you so?" His face wore a sad expression so honest
that I had anything more able than her to doubt.

I explained the modest scope of his offense and the importance of Consequences, but in such cases
he did not understand enough English to understand me.

"Your studies in Hindustani make" no progress, he said, then lost some, and we Both were glad
to have found an area that we back on the road of our ordinary Traffic
brought.

There then came a time of change, happy and beautiful community in which self-renunciation Panya
went so far as to even my whiskey neat on the Table did, and I could therefore verify exactly
how much he had stolen from the bottle.

I was at that time was in the tenth month in India, and out-Panja and Pasha still a magnificent
Dog the whole time been my faithful companion. His name was Elias had and level first year
of life completed, it was that was granted me to lead their own education and monitor its development.
Unfortunately, it is on the dogs so ordered that, during a two-month-old animal is very heavy
in the situation, about his ancestry and his final design something testify with certainty. But I
always have a special tendency to people who felt that all the symptoms and the best people
to win or know and put in their own virtues in others until they the worse one to be taught. And
in the emulation of such characters I have succeeded, Elias seeing in the pattern of a noble
animal. I would like to take the bullet its benefits do not get stuck in things, his appearance,
especially not in sight Is whether will change over time, not even a thing or two with him,
but it is certain that he has a healthy appetite and a healthy sleep. He is extremely careful
and never goes in danger, he too will be no stranger and suppressed his utmost vigilance, which
is more welcome to me, as I often stressful mental work involved, am disturbed by the barking
of each I would. Devotion is so great that he extends to all people who meet him, and especially
we must, without the prejudice of a selfish hope that the extraordinary stubbornness of his
will To boast of is the basis of genuine character. Elias can not by threats still bring with
promises to consider the wishes of others, or who believe that. He does not contaminate the garden
or the street and takes us in terms of its feeding from any effort
that results from Herzutragen of food.

Unfortunately I have not succeeded, between him and an acceptable
ratio Panja produce.

Probably makes Panja as Oriental in its traditional terms the nature of the dog walk, it is
certain that he lacks any deeper understanding of race.

"Sahib, what do you draw a pig into the house," he exclaimed, as I was then the newly acquired
Elias brought home.

"He is dusty, and the cord has tightened around the neck," I said, "wait until he washed is. "

"Will you wash it?" Said Panya and swallowed me and Elias alternately with oversized Eyes.

"It's a particularly predisposed animal that will serve us well", I assured somewhat disappointed
by the reception that we Panja prepared, and with a thoughtful look of Elias, who fought against
the door threshold and helpless in his zeal, a vision of delight innocent energy offered.

                  If not all the seeds that I put in Elias' young soul, to prosperous
development blooms are so sure Panja blame for his disparaging views
on this Animal has never fought.

I am convinced that thanks to all the educational effect on an unexpected emotional monitored
their success to the joint effort of all members of the household. As long as no Elias has support at
Panya Panya and Elias to the source of all evil does, I'm hardly in a experience the full joy
of them that I have promised.

* * * * *

The evening we were surprised by this first day in Cannanore. Panja rummaging in the boxes around
to find candles, and turned everything upside down, to restore order. The mosquito veil for
my bed were in the biggest box bottom, because they Panja at our departure naturally had first
taken, and thus also buried the deepest.

I sat long after Panja, slept on the porch of my new house and waited to the moon and the cool. From
the immobile curtains of trees, shrubs and plants of the garden took
a breath full of sultry intoxicating smells, everything flourished,
and a passionate Fullness of life forced itself upon me to find their
way into my blood.

Everywhere inflamed the huge, silent urge to germination, the exuberant sound of the crickets
border air that was so quiet that the flame of my candle just as in the distress of the supersaturated
air trembling, without flickering. From the palm groves, somewhere in the distance behind the garden,
the wind instruments of the Hindus sounded from a temple courtyard, mixed with monotonous tinny
Harmonic distortion. You could see the accompanying singing the increasing drunkenness of the
priestly singer at.

If I closed my eyes, I was overwhelmed with this music an image from my earliest Childhood.
I remembered that I once by a strange blade, which I know nothing of particular friend was
able to compare, lured from his parents' garden on the road was. It echoed from afar, from where
the road-Linden, which is near the village of themselves to seemed to approach, all wrapped in mysterious
shadows, and I ran out into the sun, the gate was left open behind me, and I forgot the banning
of my mother. Before a farm I found the ring of a light-haired crowd of village children,
two large, sad men under a tree, with black beards and long coats. They blew them screaming Music
on gray bags and overwhelmed my heart for the first and largest event
of my Childhood.

I know clearly that I like in a frenzy of blood sought support in order not to earth to sink. Today
I realize that since that moment the idea of ​​a painful restless woke up in my soul, and that
the first glance of my fate blessed me. Always to go the wishes of my soul of this animal-like
action as fully impetuous Lustbegier under the spell of a Savior for hope. They trade me, the
near and familiar to the unfamiliar and the unknown one, the house from the street and home
to the world. -

When I opened my eyes, a big brown moth sitting on the handle of the copper chandelier and looked
bewildered and helpless incomprehensible in the light. After a while he began slowly Wing lift
and lower, and his eyes full of fear and immovable blackness filled with the light nature of
the sacred fire. The air carried his strong wings slightly, this Air that moved into my chest
so hard and so tiring weighed on her. I realized I was now that the porch was crowded, and that a
winged race night Rover had come with me to a guest.

                  All penetrated mysteriously from this green Wall out, which included
me and my house.

The moon must have risen behind her, because I distinguished in the
warm wall of plants is now brighter and darker spots, the ornaments
Palm subjects and forms of the huge banana leaves, which, like the
legs of sleeping Giant peaked, or broken, such as low hanging torn
skins. The sky, I could do not see. Since I put out my light, and
a dull, magical twilight rose silently around me, as the world is
separated by a green sea glass from the light. -

* * * * *

Of all
that is given to man, his thoughts are the most magnificent.
     And there be some struck through with bristling darts
     Whose clenched hands have torn the pebbles up;
     Whose gnashing teeth have ground the very sand.
                                                 --BAILLIE.

Massasoit kept his treaty with the English inviolate so long as he lived. He died in 1661,
at the advanced age of eighty or ninety years, leaving two sons whom the English named respectively
Alexander and Philip. Alexander, the eldest son and hereditary sachem, died soon after his
father, when Philip became chief sachem and warrior of the Wampanoags, with his royal residence
on Mount Hope, not far from Bristol, Rhode Island. He was called King Philip. He resumed the
covenants with the English made by his father, and observed them faithfully for a period of
twelve years.

But it had become painfully apparent to Massasoit before his death, that the spreading colonies
would soon deprive his people of their land and nationality, and that the Indians must become
vassals of the pale race. Long did the warlike King Philip ponder on these possibilities with
deep bitterness of feeling, until he had lashed himself into a fury by the continued nursing
of his wrath, and resolved to strike the exterminating blow against the English.

There were many private wrongs of his people unavenged. The whites already had assumed a domineering
manner, and his final resolution was both natural and patriotic. King Philip was a man of reason,
and it is said he had no hope of success when he began the war. It was a war against such odds
that it must have but one termination, and he had little if any faith in a successful issue.

The Pokanokets had always rejected the Christian manners, and Massasoit had desired to insert
in a treaty, what the Puritans never permitted, that the English should never attempt to convert
the warriors of his tribe from their religion.

Repeated sales of land narrowed their domains, and the English had artfully crowded them into
the tongues of land, as "most suitable and convenient for them," where they would be more easily
watched. The two chief seats of the Pokanokets were the peninsulas now called Bristol and Tiverton.
As the English villages now grew nearer and nearer to them, their hunting-grounds were put
under culture, their natural parks turned into pastures, their best fields for planting corn
were gradually alienated, their fisheries impaired by more skilful methods, till they found
themselves deprived of their broad acres, and by their own legal contracts driven, as it were,
into the sea.

Mutual distrusts and collisions were the inevitable consequence. There is no authentic evidence
of a deliberate conspiracy on the part of all the tribes. Bancroft, who is, perhaps, the best
authority on all colonial matters, says the commencement of the war was accidental, and that
"many of the Indians were in a maze, not knowing what to do, and ready to stand for the English."

There were many grievances among the Indians. The haughty chieftain, who had once before been
compelled to surrender his "English arms," and pay an onerous tribute, was summoned to submit
to an examination, and could not escape suspicion.

The wrath of his tribe was roused, and the informer was murdered. In turn the murderers were
identified, seized, tried by a jury of which one-half were Indians, and on conviction were
hanged. I saw
including a dragon, swallowed up hundreds of times and in dark, glowing colors of great beauty,
the lion's head of Sekhmet, the lovely girls shoulders, appeared up and went out, the sacred
serpent, crowned with flaring neck with the venom of the throat, and the white bark.

came the Holy Prophet and again that strange to me that the religions of the People know and whose
words about the power of the beast I have just been through my mind were gone, but his appearance
was the gesture of his stricken martyr Fear lost. He was the last, with him and the word went
out of his divinity shining train:

"I am the first and the last.

I am the source of the chosen race, a bright Morning star.

"

Chapter Ten

Marsh tyrant

It would be difficult to report with certainty about the period between the inner Experiences
of this night was, where I met the animal, and the morning hour in which soon after Panya's
bright voice cheering against me came from the bushes. At the sound of his I was overcome by his words
are many consolations for the first time the entire confidence our liberation. I did initially,
only one word, and he sang it in the call more as said, I do not
sense the difference, until he stood before me laughing and shaking
before Joy explained that they had gone to the banks of the Kumardary,
the great stream of South Kanara, the water from the mountains of
Mysore Kurg and flow together and at Uppanangadi in the Netrawati
opens, on whose discharge into the sea Mangalore, the city that our
The goal was.

"The river has water enough for the largest canoe," said Panya happy,
"if we Boats have distended, so you need to do anything further, until
the palms of Mangalore tail up, and the rain may come.

The river carries us down quickly. "

His joyful certainty shared with me at first. After his description, we approached us the right
bank of the river, just a descent from north to south, had to be Bed so over the past few weeks,
once exceeded, probably in the hot days of happy wandering life in front of my fever. A strange
disillusionment came over me suddenly, she stood in a community with a new vitality, but together
with a deep depression. An altered reality approached, with the gray Pictures of familiar life, and
the deeper reality of the dream was about defective and untrue. Oh, surely I would forget the events
of the past time Never but something about them seemed to suddenly lose its fervor to have,
what was once the seriousness of my soul was holy, would now remain in the glow of a fine smile.
Certainly, that beautiful state of the past was once great and have been important, but it
was no longer the only one because the new world would once more my commitment, in turn, Ernst
and my devotion to my claim.

It was then, when I undertook to write never about the big world of my experience or to tell, but
I keep both on the external events. I turned around and looked behind me as my eyes could see
again about what to harassed had been raised. But only the impenetrable green walls, their plumage
in the Palm Sun glistened, my eyes were offered, no trace of our feet was more marked, I was
forgotten in the field, by which I measure volatile, understood only in the idea and intimidated
mind had loved.

bent Today, after years on the white sheets, my thoughts, my joys and to the images and colors
help my memory, I understand that grief better. At that time beat in my chest the moment of conversion,
then I felt that I should have stayed, because there is no touch and hugs in the world, where
the nature of happiness be compared, which remain innocent and generous, and not know the specific
Our way of life consciousness salvaged. Then, too, like secret memories of the haste and arbitrariness
of the European bustle awakened in me that everything in their companionship and for Goal, whatever
that might be people object, they do not bring happiness. The state of happiness is not possible
without the rest for self-reflection, for self-anesthesia leads of impoverishment.

And it took me next to the frenzy of the new, which was waiting for me, and I know clearly that
I was already an idea touched, would be the nature of my experiences. Light Worlds and storms of
the spirit world to tell eager souls So on clear how lightning storms or Days of sun care
revealed in nature prior to their approach. I was at that time for for a moment felt as I looked
down through the bushes of the jungle wilderness on the Sea saw the blue smoke of the Hindu
city on the border of the large and restless small, sometimes inclined, now perfectly straight
palm trees, and here and there the glimmer of a white Wall. I saw a brown, wooden temple pagoda
jagged get off the green and behind it the blue strip of ocean. Such was the home of the old
spirit in my imagination , and I longed to any intimate encounter, when after one of the sons
of this Spirit. Well I was here and there on my trip, met with Brahmins, but I never had one come
close, as the now, accessible at these people mostly in habit and have allowed the formation
of the tradition of their gender, they no longer priest or scholars, but traders have become.

Mangalore but as far as I knew well, was an old and the new world
little touched Place one of the few major cities in the West Sea coast,
neither the railroad nor be touched by the steamship transport and
where, as only deep in the country, the rule the priestly caste still
exercised great power.

It was added that both the Jesuits and the Protestants who talked of their ecclesiastical offices
effect, so that the Battle of wits alive and secretly raged in the city.

* * * * *

In such a divided state my feelings, I paced my companions to the
brown last day in the jungle.

                  We arrived around noon a small village close to the river on a rolling
hills lay, and which we carefully only by the trumpeting of an elephant
was.

The river I had been given the day yet to face, although we are at its marshy shore then moving
only the gurgle of water and chattering birds betrayed him and the swampy haze of air.

We soon came to a beaten path, like a brown belt in many convolutions, deeply embedded in reed
walls then led, and met in a long time once again a man on. It was an old woman at a bar a copper
kettle over the shoulder contributed to and was naked in a loincloth.

Her eyebrows were dyed with henna, and she was wearing a dark markings painted on the forehead, that
was basically in the form of a large spider.

When I sign to her, she came closer, so here, actually it was more available, leaving only that
I approached her, then she raised her arms and bowed their gesture
seemed to indicate that they agreed to each service, but in the worst
case also to escape.

Panja looked into her pot.

"Ugh," he said worthy, "it sits a toad in it."

It was difficult to communicate with the elderly, not a word hindustani and very Kannada little
understood, but we learned that the place was called Schamaji, and
that the king the white men had disposed gracious and possessed two
elephants, both male.

"God knows what that is" a king "Panya without respect and looked at me with a grimace to that expressed
at least questionable. There are in Malabar and South Kanara, a whole Series of small Hindu
kings from their urban seats, slowly the power of the Mohammedans or have the retreating British, retreated
to the provinces to live all their people to, or better of their people. They are doing similar with their
power as many supposedly misunderstood poet with his genius, both develop in the enormity of remoteness,
but only in the eyes of their happy little support. This spiritual or secular despot Does have
some extremely touching, and it is almost hard-heartedness to her of Illusion rob. There is
so much good nature hides behind most of vanity, that you should learn to endure them with less
contempt, for he is truly evil rarely vain. This mighty lonely misunderstood their glory are often unexpected
by strange belief in its importance to shake so violently that their sovereignty in bitter
Prosecution turns when it is not even disputed.

Despite this knowledge, I decided to take the King of Schamaji as seriously as he was the Maharaja
of Mysore, and the little gifts that I could have sent him to the reception, probably not
make much impression on him would have made, because these forgotten Princes are often wealthy
enough to surround himself with all the trinkets achievable, the trade imports from the West. I
therefore decided to first make his acquaintance, Pasha and sent to the elderly so as to einzukommen
an audience and for permission to my pitch tent until morning near his throne to be allowed.
Pasha went seriously as to show always, and without what he thought of my project, the old woman
squealed happily and joined him in strange jumps, the more their vigor, as to their If one could
infer, and certainly their toad captured in the most unpleasant touched. Panja however objected:

"So
you not allowed to treat King, Sahib," he said thoughtfully, without
zeal.

He seemed really worried, and I expected anything else, as he continued: "He is on his lame elephant
sit and look down on you like a beggar. If you like him but allowed would have to see you, he would
sent you his elephant and thrown to the ground have if you had ridden in his residence. "

"Panya, I do not think the king sees me, but I would like to see him
in such a way how he wants to be seen and how he used to live.

Do you think the bent neck of a People had fun, raised as his face? "

"This is the grief," said Panya, "you think anything on your dignity.

You might like a prince running through the jungle and come like a monk, who must ask everywhere.
It is difficult serve such a lord to have. This would really have been a king for us. In other kings
who still have power and wealth would, in any case you left anything else. "

He crouched anxiously on a luggage bales and watched the ants to capture him investigated. Basically,
he thought surely not, and it would be easy to convince of the contrary been, he was only working
to raise my reputation and his play to the gallery, and there to offer the last opportunity
would certainly have, I left him alone in his grief.

His pain broke through once again:

"Do you think I thought you were poor or powerless, Sahib?

I know everything. But what good is a gold embroidered dress, if
it attracts and buttoning wrong?

Anyone who is honest, shows what he is.

"

"Panya, it's too hot to talk, we want to rest a little, until the king comes."

"No, you shall speak!"

When I was silent, he stamped his foot.

"Do you think I was happy when I'm right," he asked angrily.

"So it is with me," I answered him, "and so it is with the gold-embroidered dress, from you
were spoken. "

He shook his head eagerly.

"So it can not, for I am your servant, but you are the Lord and have
to keep right.

Are you a servant of the king, that it may torment you if he keeps
silent, and you feel but that he is right in principle?

You let it sit and go. But I can not go away. "

"In the realm in which I like, there are no masters and servants, Panja, but only living beings,
and the goal of all living things is freedom. The desire to right Freedom but his eyes were not
directed at others, but first in his own breast. On this species needs to be worried no one
to be right, it falls to each his part, if be part of any recognized and guarded. "

"If your god teaches you that," Panya said, "so he does not know the
world and do not know how it's like in her.

"

"Maybe he does not know how it is, but he knows how it should be."

"So I say, what you call freedom? How should I understand you? "

"Freedom begins with the understanding and the will that we be no
more action after that depends what one does to others with it, but
then, what causes it yourself, or what one for its own sake does not
do.

Suppose you hit a human or an animal that may sometimes be necessary.

You and the alien being, you will both feel something there. It will be as long as you care what
another feels it until you have learned to Observe what are you even
here by the soul.

Then achtzuhaben and his actions thereafter set, is the first step to freedom. "

"And the last one?" Panya said.

"The last is the will to communicate to all the evil of your heart in love."

"I do not know what is good and evil. All people think about it differently.

The Brahmins think differently from me, you think differently than the fakirs who descend from
the mountains, and if you do encounter a missionary, he thinks about
it, that your hair stand on end.

"

"That's not true, you know what is evil, and you need it only for yourself to . Know It's not your job
to deal with the evil that confronts you in others. For yourself but you will know. "

"Okay, but if I have not love, Sahib?"

"Then are you lost, Panja, can then help you no God to freedom, not my and your no, no. Such
people are truly poor and lost. "

Panja seemed with the result of a modest reflection to be satisfied,
he smiled to himself, as he came even with such a state of things,
not just gone bad.

But then he began to scratch, and I realized, blinking through the
sunshine that no external reason for this effort was present.

He said cautiously:

"What do you think in your head, Sahib, is not bad, but when it comes
out and you wants to do something with it, so it's a similar, as akin
to sunlight for Night lift. Life is different, that's the thing. "

"It's
dark, Panya. This differs from our hearts our hands, can be in it
cancel out light and keep it. "

Would not be a tripping crowd of
little wild at the end of the path from the village appeared, Panya
would have thought then certainly an objection, at least insofar as
he retained even without answer right when the tangible facts of life
imperatively demanded the upper hand. There were perhaps twenty or
thirty Hindu children to narrow in the distance the Way made the attempt
to always be one above another, as each is with the intention contributed
to stare at best. This effort meant that the ball is always busy more
approached, until at last the boys were most forward and put her legs
into the ground, to be approached not pushed on to us. Some climbed
into the pepper vines, and the black eyes looked over the brown chubby
cheeks through the green leaves.

"A message in the mind of an old
woman is like rice in a coarse sieve," said Panya and laughed.

"It's
not as young, Panya was."

He looked at me curiously and then said:

"To
you it does not matter, Sahib.

In the month of May, 1676, he appeared at the head of a powerful force in northern Massachusetts.
Large bodies of Indians about this time took up positions at the Connecticut River falls, where
they were attacked and routed by Captain Turner. One hundred were left dead on the field and
a hundred and forty more went over the falls. When Turner retreated from the field, the Indians
rallied, fell on his rear, shot down the gallant captain and thirty-seven of his men.

On May 30th, Philip, at the head of six hundred men, attacked Hatfield, but was repulsed after
a desperate struggle.

Philip's power was on the wane. He was secure in no place; but his haughty spirit was untamed
by adversity. Although meeting with constant losses, and among them some of his most experienced
warriors, he, nevertheless, seemed as hostile and determined as ever. In August, the intrepid
Church made a descent upon his headquarters at Matapoiset, where he killed and made prisoners
one hundred and thirty. Philip barely made his escape, and was obliged to leave his wampum
and his wife and child, who were made prisoners.

Church's guide had brought him to a place where a large tree, which the enemy had felled, lay
across a stream. Church had gained the top end of the tree, when he espied an Indian on the
stump of it, on the other side of the stream. Church, brought his gun to his shoulder and would
have shot the Indian, had not one of his own Indians told him not to fire, as he believed it
was one of his own men. On hearing voices, the Indian looked about, and the friendly Indian
got a glance at his face and discovered that it was Philip. The friendly Indian fired, but
too late, for Philip, leaping from the stump, ran down the bank among the bushes and in a moment
was out of sight. Church gave chase to him; but he could not be found, though they picked up
a few of his followers. King Philip's war had now degenerated into a single man hunt. From
this time on, Philip was too closely watched and hotly pursued to escape destruction. Surely this was hanging loosely considered outburst and my lack of control with the Fastidiousness
together where I had spent almost half a year only among people where even just a thought with equal
rights to nature has never arisen, so that to me the obvious resistance that far more people
had to appear as arrogance, as it may, it was indeed.

The severely affected in two ways man began to fight for his honor insulted officials only after
a gap of about four meters and a table made of polished hardwood between himself and had brought
me. Everything about him was anger, even his hair oiled, from its lustrous gray hair, the
line caps are removed, had seemed to me with indignation to sparkle.

I took just in case a black box made of ebony from the table, in the steel springs, Anna's
an eraser and copper were arranged with the propriety with which a Princess Jewels held. But I
was determined to return the first word disrespectful in that I spent this box as a missile.
I once heard that farmers whose Fields under prolonged heat waves are in danger of withering
on the rain by gun shots lure of hotels. A similar hope I must have moved at that time, and
a related Faith. But there was no word and no more violence between me and my adversaries, because
the door opened, and with cool eyes and face of the English officials wohlrasiertem appeared in and
allowed his gaze from me soon back to his slaves, and soon walk back left.

The distance at which we were apart, the table between us, on the
cheek down the writer's hand and my cantankerous attitude like the
rulers of South Kanaras have sufficiently informed about what might
have been about right.

The service in the tropics and are exposed to post-proven, well-educated Englishman an admirable
prudence excellent in all abnormal situations and understand it, the first things once so increase,
as they are, without prematurely express how they should be for their opinion. The evidence at least
of great self-confidence. And so the officer turned to me quietly and asked politely if he was able
to harmoniously by his interference, this situation to make. He had no further question on
the open door to his room and I entered without a word of complaint, because I realized that
this, in the presence of a subordinate was undesirable. I saw immediately afterwards in a comfortable
wicker chair a man of about fifty years compared to whose strong, well-ordered form, the wise and
at the same time benevolent face me the most unconditional inspires confidence, and I about thirty
years younger than he, it was easy for me to ask him, the unusual nature of my introduction can not
constitute a contempt against the English government, or against his person. When I told him
my name, he told me its the cool and asked me if I was British.

How important will the representatives of this nation to this fact so innocent! On my reply, slipped
a little shadow of displeasure over his forehead and he asked me if I belonged to the German
mission in Mangalore.

»Close out of the treatment I meted your letter?" I asked.

He smiled and shook his head, but seemed no further explanation of
the nature of my to see answer his question so that I said no, and
then he waited.

As I said, He looked at me quietly, and without even a shadow of criticism in his Trains showed.
Judging by his expression, I would have myself and my story to him as well can be obnoxious as
pleasant, or completely indifferent. At a break, I made, he set a small table bell in motion
and gave a servant entering a Command, and immediately planted a quiet, brown being a tray on between
us, the whiskey, soda water and ice - cream wore.

My heart was in sensations, as they did not tender for a father can be and this feeling was
heightened by the simple warning of the collector when he asked me
to be careful with the drinking, I found probably in Schamaji no ice
would have.

The story of the king had fallen to him, after a while he said:

"When years ago I experienced my first tropical summer, I was almost a killer, in to second
a desperate and only the third I started again resemble an Englishman.

You do so not to show concern when your senses for a moment they leave, has the patience to lose
in India first, then usually the reason. Only few find both again, but this then they tend
to do well. "

I learned then what I wanted to know in my case, and needed only a
little while to ask.

In the office room of the collector was in later days, first the name Mangeshe Rao, the Brahmins.
This sound and listening to the presented briefly and without a deeper understanding Life story of
this man, I felt clearly a relationship that goes far beyond curiosity or interest left the
room. The official told me by and by following, following on from my Please, call me in Mangalore
among the educated Brahmins a personality, with the I could care for beneficial use, and after
our relationship with some friendliness tested was:

»Mangeshe Rao is among the younger Brahmins Mangalore, South Kanaras yes, one of the best known, and
no doubt one of the smartest. About his attitude I can give no information, because its areas
of interest affecting our only political, and almost any other passion conceals the nature of the
enemy before the enemy more than just one of such kind of man has made us a lot to create and
only because he understanding and participation his comrades box has not found unanimous, it
is not us become dangerous. Since He attended the University of Madras and has made so far
academically, than the English allow universities in India, he has lost the confidence of his nature,
caste, however long that we possessed, but never in fact my personal. I was as representatives
of the Government undertakes to promote it as much as he took advantage of us when he me,
however, what often happened back then, in that chair across from the now you are taking, so
I I never feel afraid of the strange secret impenetrability of his being got rid of. He soon
reached a leading position at the local college English, it saw it under the Jesuits, in secret
meetings of his fellow tribesmen and even in the warehouse the Protestant mission. I have never
been able to find out whether his sympathy he seemed to bring everywhere, met with sincere,
or whether they had been shown him is because he was afraid.

Six months ago he was released.

I have not ventured further action against him, because I have since learned that his influence is
great, and probably be Annex, if not precisely in the province, but throughout the empire.
We must guard well understood in this country the punishment as retribution or revenge, but we,
in such Cases proceed well only as far as our opponents are powerless under it. It had Consider
the following occurred. A Jesuit priest of the local convent had one day in report to me and
brought me a small school in Malayalam authored book, as here everywhere in the government
and mission schools on the form and presentation use. I will show you the book. "

He got up and walked next door to a cabinet-iron, which he after some
searching files and papers gathered under a gray, heavy book-like
and lay down in front of me.

It was narrow and trimmed on three sides, sober and of dress, and pointed in the traditional arrangement
of a textbook on a title below and the insignia of the printing the Jesuits for their propaganda
a printer with more than ten different characters the vernaculars entertained. The collector
I translated the title "A textbook comparative linguistics on the relationship of the South Indian
dialects with the Sanskrit. Edited by Mangeshe Rao, a teacher at the English College, Mangalore, printed
in the pharmacy of SJ there. "

The title and the first ten pages of the booklet were in short inconspicuous Compare Its inscription
just, but then was followed by a large mind and agitational fervor
written critique of the English government in the southern provinces,
which was all the more provocative, when she was in fact and revealed
detailed knowledge without having to prove such a treason was.

I got myself this paper later translated by Panja in detail.

The official continued: "The priest told me that a chance to discover this abuse its printing
was done, he refused the responsibility of his order the Government to with this admission from,
and told me that the corrupt people were laid off.

At my request to give me his suspicions, who he thought was the author of this brochure, he replied
in great courtesy, that probably would be such a suspicion, but that it is not with the attitude
and habits of his order belonged to exchange opinions about crime, which are not clearly stated.
It was evident: people had fear, fear; as here, all that does not belong to the disinterested populace.
It has happened all too often, that the most ardent leader of a party bent on a morning, from
the venom of their opponents, dead were found in their homes. So it was up to me to show courage,
but all the reckless Kind of boldness that is not guided by the utmost caution, has this country
only the value a vain boy farce. I was, even before I started a trial very bluntly made it clear
that I in case of reckless engagement not with a careless criminals, but with a powerful party
of the whole Indian Empire would have to fight. This is not me, nor guarantees the scope of
my position I only limited success. I passed the case to the government.

Naturally, it went to not only care and to see anything else. Thus it was I ask Mangeshe Rao
to me. This meeting, I never forget. First was the Brahmin I tell him that a later day is
rather an encounter. I was concerned, because I had to conclude either complete impartiality,
or an escape attempt, and so I let him monitor, without crowding him.

I now know that this monitoring it, which he saw at once evoked intentionally by his delay,
had to learn whether this was something significant. He came the next day, and was prepared for anything.

I
gave him, in the midst of an indifferent conversation, suddenly the book.

He took it, glanced at it and said politely:

"I consider it wants, whenever I find time."

"It's from you, I said.

"Yes," he answered quietly, as I have said anything, "it will happen
soon."

"This book with your name as the author," I continued, and I confess,
inwardly insecure and applied.

Mangeshe Rao looked at me as if he determines expected, I would continue in those putative to discuss
something that had absolutely nothing to do with the little booklet, which he callously turned
between the fingers. Finally he followed my eyes and apparently only now aware become, he began
to leaf through the book and certainly not as it no doubt any other
would have done in the first pages of harmless, but in the middle
of the treacherous attack on the government.

He looked for a moment, asked politely and with a little frown that allow you "?" and read on. After a while
he turned the covers, looked back to the track, compared smiled, embarrassed, and went on reading.
The man has managed to, a quarter of an hour to read long before my eyes his own text, not with signs
of astonishment or outrage, but with no evidence. And I'm sure the whole transaction through
rather he gives the impression of the auditee. Well, I remained patient, aware of it, that
he left inside was considering the reason for my patience. But when he, after a good while with
an amused smile, looked up, shook his head and began to give me a very special reading to be
taken at once mischievous and sales, I needed all my control, to return the smile. He put the
magazine down and said, thoughtfully and with concern raised eyebrows:

"It's
not pleasant for us."

"Do you have a suspicion who the author?"

Mangeshe Rao did not answer and I found myself obliged to continue:

"What may have come your name is on this issue?"

The Brahmin answered my first question, after he had previously regarded
me briefly, as he wanted to say my second: Was not a plump little
research?

"I have no suspicions. What surprises me most is the fact that the Jesuits their responsibilities, so
thoughtless in the service of a cause which hurts the government,
protecting them.

"

I had nothing else left but now either my suspicions against the Brahmins express, or discontinue
the conversation, but the first I was not allowed without proof,
the intervention followed, and the second I did not want.

So I chose a middle ground again, although I knew the inconclusiveness of my actions.

"As the author may have come just in your name?" I wondered aloud.

Mangeshe Rao said that after the fleeting impression he received after
reading would have it this abuse in the non-partisan view of literacy,
which from the work conversations, at least not just simply put, but
then he added seriously:

"The thought was obvious.

The book was already printed in Mangalore, we chose the best as cover the name of an English
teacher from the local college. It will happen more so be because it was necessary to deceive the
Jesuits, for reasons other than caution. "

"You also could have taken an English name."

Mangeshe Rao looked at the title, he replied with a modest head characteristics:

"That would not have been wise, since everyone in India who can read knows that an Englishman
rarely act of foreign languages ​​understand. "Well, I swallowed and which is still understood that
I had taken a wrong path. When the master of this diplomatic Safety of my opponent seemed his
by anyone, even the smallest triumph completely free Type of adoption.

He still went out and a little uneasily, as though it slowly became clear that this strange
discovery may be unpleasant to him but, as he believed at the beginning had. I had then already
evidence in the hands, which I passed on, and it is beyond doubt
sublime that Mangeshe Rao is the author of this pamphlet, he told
me later not without scorn, acknowledged in a way that only me has
me thoroughly convinced.

                  The Government decreed in a polite reticence his temporary resignation
from his post, on the grounds that, although was unconfirmed suspicions
against him, but that his name on a Species is exposed to this decision
making necessary for a short time.

"

This was composed of details that I learned little by little, the story the Brahmins Mangeshe Rao,
and my expectations were tense, as weeks later the day came to what
I should make his acquaintance.

* * * * *

Meanwhile, the heavy rain had used. I had succeeded on a wooded hillside for rent hill the wing
of a beautiful house with large rooms and a wide veranda, which was completely shadowed by
bushes, but a view of a magnificent avenue of plane trees opened, which led to an old city
gate.

The low-breaking amounts of water and the terrible storms that initiate the rainy season, banished
me in my long white spaces in which I like in a continuously abused
Drum-lived, between walls of water, the matte silver streams warm
and clapping before the Wheels thundered down. Flickered at night
in the All Bengal fire rings, the chains the lightning crackled and
thunder often stunned all sensation until recently also the fear in
a dull devotion sank, which remained in all creatures as in the fire
signs of the Last Judgement, while within inflamed houses and trees
lit up and went out. It went for weeks so on, without cooling, under
the impenetrable, nearby cloud masses could not ascend the sultry
mists of months-baked earth. The lungs pushed the moisture and heat
supersaturated air, as in the murky windows an overheated greenhouse
and out, and slowly went out the last vital force.

"To these grievances are added the confinement of suffrage to freeholders, which hath disfranchised
a large number of persons," put in Mr. Drummond.

"Also the failure of the governor to protect the frontier from the Indians," added Mr. Cheeseman.
"These heathen have begun to threaten the colony."

"What cause have they for taking up the hatchet?" asked Robert. Mr. Cheeseman answered:

"Their jealousy was aroused by an expedition made by Captain Henry Batte beyond the mountains.
Last summer there was a fight with some of the Indians. A party of Doegs attacked the frontier
in Staffard and committed outrages, and were pursued into Maryland by a company of Virginians
under Major John Washington. 1879, their total content to 181.500 tone. estimate, in 1886, it comprised only 17 steamers
(T. 7297), 416 large sailing ships (69.627 T) and a large number of small coastal vessels.

922

Turkish Empire (Transportation, coins, etc. Dimensions: state conditions).

To shipping movements are, apart from data for individual major port cities (Constantinople, Salonika,
Smyrna, Dedeaghatsch, Trebizond, Beirut, Samsun, Jafa, etc., sd), only data for the year from 1 March
1881 to 28 Before Feb. 1882. According to those same ships 195.703, including 37.924 foreign to
15,864,032 tone. While Turkish and 157.779 to 3,703,261 T. the year of the war had dropped
the number to 12,810,003 tons, up to 1887/88 but should resume 21,984,576 T. foreign shipping and
5,597,351 T. grown in coastal shipping. The most while participating nations are England with 9,274,752
T., Austria-Hungary 3,722,122; France with 2,979,457, with 2,425,124 Greece, Russia, with 2,030,714, Italy with
956.537, Sweden and Norway, with 208.587, 163.833 with the German Reich T. The foreign shipping is the
port of Constantinople, with 36.36 per cent of the tonnage involved. Regular steamship connections
Hauptseeplätzen be between Turkey and the ports of the Black, Adriatic and Ägeischen Sea as the western
Mediterranean Basin (Odessa, Trieste, Brindisi, Messina, Marseilles, etc.) by the Austrian Lloyd
steamship, the Messageries maritimes, Fraissinet & Comp. Navigazione Generale Italiana, Compagnie
Russe de navigation à vapeur et de commerce, Greek and Turkish ship maintenance. The Turkish postal
system in 1840 refurbished (1886: 408 Post offices throughout the Reich 1187), but have the same
uncertainty, the German Reich, Austria, France, Great Britain etc. by post offices in Istanbul
and some other Ports maintained. Railway construction in Turkey in Europe only recently been
undertaken, to date including Eastern Rumelia are 1170 km in service (in Asiatic Turkey 660 km)
and the very important links of the tracks Thessaloniki Mitrowitza and Constantinople-Sarambei have
opened 1888th The telegraph network is (presumably in the interest the government) are quite extensive,
even over remote and poor people provinces. There are 233 (throughout the empire 683) Telegraphenbüreaus.
The most important places of Turkey in Europe are: Constantinople, Adrianople, Gallipoli, Salonika,
Janina, Scodra, Prisrend, Prishtina and Monastir. Currency unit is the piastres (Para 40),
the 100 on the Turkish lira (= to 18 ½ Mk Go). But as enjoy premium gold, the piastres is worth
less (16-17 Pf). There are circulating gold coins to 500, 250, 100, 50 and 25 piastres, silver
coins of 20, 10, 5, 2, 1 and ½ piastres and coins from an alloy of silver with copper, namely,
whole, half and quarterly Altilik (a Altilik, value = 6 piastres, contains 52 percent silver
and loses about 17 per cent) and whole, half, 2 / 5, 1 / 5 and 1 / 10 Beschlik contains (25 per
cent silver, value = 5 piastres, and lost in transport by 50 per cent). The price of gold and silver
coins is the way in the different cities varies. is officially in relation to size and weight
Since 1871, the French (metric) system. Former unit of weight was the Okka = 1284 g, the Getreidemaß
Kile ref = 25-37, the peak of length Halebi ("Elle of Aleppo") = 0.686 m. These dimensions
are still widely in use.

State conditions.

The Ottoman Empire is an absolute monarchy, whose ruler, Sultan or Sultan ("Great Lord"), the
highest temporal authority of the Caliphate, the highest religious rank links. The Sultan is at his
subjects as the successor of the Prophet and has his authority from God. The throne is hereditary
in the male line of the house of Osman and usually goes to the oldest Member of the same over.
The Sultan is in the mosque Ejub to Constantinople by the Mufti, with the assistance of the
chief of the emirs, with the sword of Osman, the first sultan of the Ottomans (1299), girded, and
he promises the maintenance of Islam and a vow to the Koran stores. The present Sultan Abdul
Hamid Khan, born on 21 Sept. 1842, son of the Sultan Abdul Medjid Chan (since 3l. Aug. 1876), the
34th Sovereign of the house of Osman and the 28th since the conquest of Constantinople. The court
of the Sultan is called the Sublime Porte. Dignitaries the same fall into two classes: those
who live Agas for Foreign Affairs, outside the palace or seraglio and the others who inhabit the interior
of the Aga, the Mabeïn, a part of the seraglio next to the harem. In the first category include:
the first Imam, or the Imperial Grand Almoner Palace, the first doctor, the first secretary,
the first adjutant, the master of the horse, etc. The second category (Mabeïndschi) consists
almost entirely of eunuchs, which her name to the Title "Aga" set. The first in rank and is a field
marshal is equal to the Kizlar Aga ("Captain of the Maiden"), the head of the black eunuchs.
Then: the head of the private fund the Sultan, the Treasurer of the Crown, the Kapu-Aga or
the head of the white eunuchs, the Steward, the chief eunuch, the first Kammereunuch, director,
etc. The women of the Page of the harem, which is a state body decay, depending on their rank
in several classes. The first are in the rank of the Kadinen whose legitimate number 7, the concubines
of the Sultan, follow these 50-60 odal, ie imperial house-maid to the special services the
sultan are intended to share too well with the Kadinen favor of it. Throughout 300-400 contains
the harem women, mostly Circassians. The title will show only the Sultana Daughters or sisters
of the sultan. His mother is called Sultan Walid or sultana-mother and is in first place after
the Sultan kingdom. The Ottoman legislation consists of two Main parts, the theocratic (religious
and civil) law and the political or Scheriat Law or Kanun. The Scheriat is based on the Koran,
the Sunna, or tradition, the Ijma i ümmet (the interpretations and decisions of the first four
caliphs containing) and the Kyas or the collection of court by the four great Imams (Ibn Hanif,
Maliki, Shafi'i, and Hambali) decisions given in the first three centuries of the Hegira to
the collections of the Fetwas (sd). The system of the Turkish legislation is the work of about
200 lawyers from whose work it was last comprehensive collections which represented the body
of legislation. The first, "Arid" ("Pearl") called sufficient to 1470 (875 of the Hegira), the
second, "Mülteka ül Buhur" ("compound of the Seas"), the plant of the learned Sheikh Ibrahim Halebi
(d. 1549), was completely rewritten in 1824 and is religious, political, military, civic, civil
and criminal code, the Commercial Code is a clumsy copy of the French Code de Commerce of 1807.

923

Turkish Empire (public administration, justice).

In Turkey, the theory now exists for the 23 December 1876 adopted constitutional right to although
the government is the same very little attention. Essentially sets the same: the indivisibility
of the kingdom, and the irresponsibility and inviolability of the Sultan, whose Prerogatives
of the other European rulers, and the freedom of the subjects, without the Hot Ottomans difference
is inviolable. The state religion is Islam, but may recognized religions are practiced freely and retain
their privileges. Then, press freedom, Petition and assembly, equality of all subjects before
the law (slavery but actually still exists!), Freedom in Education, empowerment for all without
distinction Ottomans of religion to all official positions, equitable distribution of taxes etc.
guaranteed. The Konseil to advise the minister under the presidency of the Grand Vizier. The
Minister for her department is responsible and may be indicted by the House of Representatives,
resolution of the latter or dismissal of the Minister in a conflict between the two, interpellation
right Members' tenure of the officials provided no legal reason exists against them, as in all civilized
countries, as well as the composition of Parliament (since 1878 not convened more) consists of
two chambers, the Institute of the throne speech, freedom of vote, the public of meetings,
the Votierung the budget, etc. But, this Constitution were not considered further soon after
their formation.

[Government.] As for the state administration, the Sultan exercises its legislative and executive
power by the (1878 temporarily abolished) Grand Vizier and the Mufti (Sheikh ul Islam) out.
The Grand Vizier (Sadrasam) is the representative of the Sultan, leads Privy Council and the
chair is actually the holder of executive power. He received his Hattischeriff violence by the
sultan and has its official residence of the High Gate. The Mufti and Shaykh al-Islam (used in 1543
by Mohammed II) is the interpretation He is chief of the Law of the ob Ulemas (see below), itself had
neither priest nor magistrate. He takes part in the exercise of legislative power in the sense that
its consent is necessary is the validity of any regulation, every one of the highest authority
of the late act. In addition, are at the head of the state administration for the individual
branches of the same specific Minister of State, namely: the President of the State Council, the Minister
for Foreign Affairs; Minister of War and Grand Master of Artillery (Seraskier), the Minister of Finance,
the Minister of Marine (Kapudan Pascha), the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of trade,
public works and of agriculture, the minister of public instruction, justice minister and the director
the Evkaf (ie the mosques and religious foundations associated goods). The Privy Council or
sofa, the members of the track Mushir (councils of Head of State) lead, is to the the Sheikh
ul Islam, the above ministers and the Bureau of the State Council and meets weekly in the rule.
Then follow the two Imperial Council, for the execution the reforms and the State Council, founded
in 1868 (after pattern of the French Conseil d'Etat). With each of the various ministerial departments,
with the exception of foreign affairs, Councils are permanent (such as healthcare, postal and telegraph, etc.)
which which the objects to edit and prepare the improvement projects. All offices of the Ottoman
Empire disintegrated in scientific or offices of the state teachers (ulama), offices the spring
(administrative offices), offices of the sword (army and navy) and court offices. The Minister
have the title "Mushir" (and "vizier"), the other high government officials of the gate and the
Generale the title "Pasha", the higher the official title "Efendi," the sons of the Pasha and
the upper officers entitled "In" and all inferior officers and officials of the title of "Aga".
Behufs the administration is the Turkish empire in vilayets or General Government classified. The
Vilayets fall into Liwas or provinces, which in turn in Kazas or districts. At the Top of each
vilayets is a Wali or Governor General as head of the administration. In his act, without
being appointed by him, the Defterdar for finance, Mektubdschi or Secretary General, the secretary
of the foreign operations, the officials for the public Educational, trade, agriculture, road
construction, surveying, police, etc. Each is Liwa managed by a Mutessarrif, each from a Kaimakam Kaza,
the head of the Nahijes or Communities is one of the natives elected Mudir and its Assistant
Secretary, the muavin. In each vilayet, Liwa, Kaza and Nahije is the administrators concerned
a Majlis i idareh (Board) to the side, in which the judicial, financial, religious peaks 3-4 and
sitting elected by the population of people. At the end of the year 1878, the Design of a new organic
regulations for the European provinces of Turkey, published after which the Sultan of all the
Welsh vilayets to five years shall appoint. The gate is under each choose from three candidates
proposed by the Mutessarrifs the Wali and the provincial officials remove possible from the inhabitants
of the province in question. A General Council, composed of two delegates from each Kazas,
should be used in any vilayet. Apart from the customs revenue is the yield of ground and land
tax and other revenues to pay for the expenditure the provinces for public works and police use.
The verdicts the courts should be made in public meetings.

[Justice.] The Turkish judicial authorities fall into the whole Muslim Tscheris, headed by the Sheikh
ul Islam is, and in the secular Nisâmijes that of Christians and
Muslims are composed.

The Tribunal consists of the high Tscheris Appellhof (Arsadassi) with a chamber for Europe and
Asia, one Kasi-asker (Kazilesker, s. d.) and 14 judges counts. In each vilayet a Czech Rige straightening
is chaired Molla one titled Naib, who is also the Diwan-Temyisi (Appeal of vilayets) presided. Likewise,
each Liwa and Kaza are Tscheri court, often the bribe very accessible. For disputes between
adherents of different religions, same time for criminal cases serve Nisâmijes, each vilayet,
Liwa and Kaza has one, and whose members are elected by the people. Each superior court is the appeal
instance for

924

Turkish Empire (army and navy, arms and decorations; non-European
possessions).

lower.

The highest the Supreme Court in Constantinople (founded 1868), which
under confirm all death sentences has other things.

There are also port cities in 49 commercial courts, erected 1847th
In decision making, in which both parties are strangers, the Consular
Court.

[Finance.] As for the finances, have the same after the 13th national bankruptcy April 1876
(adjustment of interest payments) due to the slightly raised on 20
December 1881 decreed Consolidation and reduction of the comment and
the regulation of the floating debt.

The bonds from 1858 1874 in the amount of 190,997,980 pounds Sterl. were 106,437,234 pounds Sterl.
reduced, and since the latter are from the proceeds of certain taxes (tobacco and salt monopolies, Beverages
and fishing tax, stamp, silk tithe, toll on Bulgaria and Eastern Rumelia, Excess of the income
of Cyprus) under the supervision of representatives of the creditors with 1 per cent interest
and amortized ¼ per cent. On 13 March 1887 that debt was still 104,458,706 Pounds Sterl, which showed
their interest to specific internal control 1887/88. 114 million piastres (Not yet a million
pounds Sterl.). In addition, there is still an internal debt of about 22 Türk million pounds
(of 100 piastres), a floating debt of about 9 million pounds türk, the bearing Russian war
debt of 32 million pounds Sterl. That to Russian private compensation afforded of 38 million and
debts for Frank recently supplied war materials (about 3 million pounds Sterl.). The budget
is a completely unregulated, and the figures of the same, so far as such at all to be published, are only
on paper and deserve no trust permanent deficit by reducing and non-payment of officials levels, small
loans, even forced loans not excluded, and similar remedies covered. 1881/82 amounted are the
same türk to about 5 ¼ million pounds and ranges usually 4-8 million in fiscal year 1884/85
were the other about 12 million pounds türk amount of revenue allegedly to 7 million down! For
1887/88 it is estimated it back to 17 ½ million pounds türk, whether rightly, is very questionable.
The main items of revenue where the same is not pledged to the bondholders are are: property
tax, income tax on individual trades, the tithe of the agricultural produce, but is elevated to a
height of 12 ½ per cent, the sheep tax imposed on the non-Muslim burdensome tax for exemption
from military service that 8proz. Import or 1proz. Export.

[Army, navy, coat of arms.] Adopted in May 1879, the Army Reorganization Commission orders a new of Battle
for Peace as the Turkish army.


The Indians had entrenched themselves on a hill east of the present city of Richmond, and when
the whites approached them, they as usual sent forth a flag of truce to parley with them. The
men who remained with Bacon were nearly all frontiersmen who had suffered more or less from
the savages.

John Whitney, a frontiersman, had had his home destroyed, and his wife and child slain by the
Indians. While the parley was going on, John discovered the Indian who had slain his wife and
child, and, recognizing their scalps hanging at the savage's girdle, he levelled his rifle
at the savage and shot him dead.

The Indians gave utterance to yells of rage, and from the hill-top poured down a volley at
the white men; but the bullets and arrows passed quite over their heads. Bacon saw that the
moment for a charge had arrived, and, raising himself in his stirrups, he shouted:

"There are the devils who slew your friends and kindred. It is their lives or ours. Strike
for vengeance! Charge!"

Not a man faltered. Never did husbands, fathers and brothers dash forward into battle more
fearlessly. Each man thought only of his own little home exposed to the ravages of the enemy,
and the whistling of balls and arrows did not deter him. The enemy were entrenched in a fort
of logs. They outnumbered the Virginians ten to one; but the latter charged nobly forward,
plunging into the stream which lay between them and the fort, and wading through the water
shoulder deep.

"There are the enemy; storm the fort!" cried Bacon. Ever in the van, mounted on his dapple
gray, where bullets flew thickest, he was here and there and everywhere, urging and encouraging
the men by word and example. They needed little encouragement, for the atrocities of the Indian
had fired the blood of the Virginians, until the most timid among them became brave as a lion.

Robert Stevens kept at the side of Bacon, imitating his example. Robert was mounted on an English
bay, a famous fox-hunter, and accustomed to leaping barriers. 

YOUNG:

This is far and wide.

You wanted to talk about my work.

OLD MAN:

I say that your products are without the comfort, because you are not the means and Knowledge
have to produce it. What do you write with, the unmistakable stamp of the direct and indirect experience,
but these experiences are not artistically transfigured and increased
and are therefore left with no poetic effects.

You have a strong and natural emotion, but only rarely in its purity
works because the fabric does not dissolve completely in their able.

Do you notice now that it getting at, you realize how everything Inside also something external
and vice versa?

YOUNG:

I see nothing but pedantry and hear nothing but words. If the art form is not sufficient for what
I say, well then extended to me this form. Where are these learned Written laws, which I will
add me? Who made them, and how I came to me to bow before them?

OLD MAN:

Where they are written? In the human being. Who made them?

The human feeling.

Why should you bend them up?

Because you will not act otherwise, because your words and your Works
are usually of more volatile stock than a piece of ice in the midday
sun.

It has namely Over the centuries, the millennia figured out what takes the humanity, comfort and
enjoys what comes out of their depths and strives to their depths. It followed and such high reaching
effects, not blind, but by the clearest knowledge, these were the champions. Anyone who defies the
instruction may not even be students.

YOUNG:

So teach me.

OLD MAN:

I said earlier, that the elements do not mix in you want, remain substance and perception unresolved
and hostile toward each other. The result is an everlasting and everywhere apparent dissonance.
You really do not tell events, but you describe it conditions. Just seems that you care about
what is important in the story and needs to be. You jump from situation to situation, the Intermediate
you is a stopgap measure, is forced to Report and disappointed by his sobriety. As you work
this hesitation as a creative artist himself clearly very sensitive, it urges you to make adjustments,
and you've got too emotional and lyrical Access accounts, in which the action is not a step
further. Because it is it, mind you: movement is everything, all art is created by movement.
This now depends again The design of your closest people together.

Your characters have no rest points.

You are skilled and credible drawn, the extent and associated with the action but are separated
and considered it own living, they become dull and wooden. You know exactly what they should
not, in their world, but in your world. It lacks the higher intention to deceive and deception
power. A character has to live despite the action not by the action. Where it would otherwise, especially
with all that mediocre writers the figures are the most credible, the least with the action and its
tension are interwoven, known as Episode figures? Only they spread
comfort, that is Credibility, because they follow no apparent purpose.

If one can say that art formed by the movement, we must add, it works
through the apparent futility the movement.

YOUNG:

I have doubts about doubt. Hundreds of questions force themselves upon me, because I can see how
you reach deep. And it dawns on me many things that I could know nothing earlier. But let ask me.
You said that I did not tell events, but describe situations and I must admit it confused me
the tag. Is not it just a word game? What Difference because you seem to exist between narrative
and description? I mean, how the effect of a work is affected. Are not scholastic limits?

OLD MAN:

Let's say that you had a difficult and dangerous journey behind you, hast lethal Adventure hast
existed for many years been regarded as lost and lost and now mayest yet returned. Everything
is anxious to hear how you accomplished it and how it dir was given. You set up in the circle
of onlookers and participants and tell them start with a trip across the sea, the list of your
companions and their short hint Nature and their recent fortunes you go on, with the landing, the
dawn of the unknown Areas, etc., etc. It would be appropriate to the interest of listeners by descriptions
of Landscapes, animals, tiring of plants?

If you would do this, would in them a slight mistrust of the seriousness
and gravity of your destiny survived arise.

They want to know what happened to you, nothing more, and more simple and objective you are,
the more credible will play your experiences. Not one word you need to . Describe The image of
the landscape and the country is entirely self-engendered in the imagination; The less you say
it, the stronger is the imagination of the listeners see it and that through your own experience, they
instinctively go with your way and see it with your Eyes.

It is not at all important that the image of reality corresponds
to the they make of it, is it just that their mental motion picture
formed.

This spiritual movement is now back by the movement of artistic Matter, and so you see again,
like in appearance and character have merged and merge need.

YOUNG:

The example to me. It makes sense to me that the wandering from one thing one has set himself,
acts in bad faith in art as well as in life, and I understand also that one can lose the confidence
of the reader in this way. But you said something of glorification and exaltation and poetic effect
of the substance. All this seems to me unnecessary, once again the truth, the truth is beyond doubt.

OLD
MAN:

Certainly, if there is one and the same thing would be to tell orally or in writing. In between
is such a deep abyss, that he does not mind, not knowledge, to bridge not truthfulness able, but
only artistic genius.

It is the abyss between being and Apparent, between the mirror and
the person in front of it, between life and memory, between the minute,
and eternity.

Your lively audience see you, they see you taken excited or depressed, the spoken word has a
very vivid testimony inescapable force by itself, if you the same true and harrowing story
of your journey with the same Words, write down your oral report, they can absurd and hypocritical as it
were sound reason. So it is again the seemingly exterior, which produces
the artistic effect: the style.

About the same simplicity that the listener can feel without the
interference of your special if you're just a simple and true nature
to make the reader of a book credible to is a half-life of incessant
attempts exhausting effort, agonizing struggle.

In Life is self-evident, or we apply a technical term, the naive one condition in art there is
a final consequence, a summit.

YOUNG:

The task is therefore to achieve the appearance of the obvious, within to create art is a structure
that has the features of nature. Furthermore, I am clear. But every individual has his particular
naivete, each "self" his own self-evident. If there were still certain laws that are all tied
unconsciously, creator and enjoy?

OLD MAN:

Do we even start from the narrowest to go into space. Who linguistic sense and has an attentive
ear, will know or have unconsciously felt early on that the most exquisite beauty of our language
is in their power, an organically structured, period like animated form. The idea, the idea arises
and is manifested by noun and verb, the adjective approaches to clarify or decorate, A second
idea, or action will constitute the first and continue, and the subordinate clause is born, at
which the same phenomena take place in the main set, only tinted, reduced, mitigated. That is the
rhythm of prose: the rise and fall of sound and the emphasis on the mutual relationship of
sentences and phrases with each other, the free and self-motion adaptation, the fullness of expression
with maximum parsimony with the word. The most distinct character of the German language is
based on the verb; this form, mold, to isolate a certain extent, indicates the good prose writers,
while the mediocre are More on the ornamental epithet moved - naturally. Check the style but
our good Narrative to that fact out: how the floods and flows to a majestic calm, always moving and
always moves to achieve a desirable objective. The epithet has stiffened and is be used only
with caution, and only the imagination can it intuitive to the right place set; revived the verb
and is the real engine element in the sentence structure. It is always interesting, good style
narrator spoke only to his melodic content to check out to convince
himself as the period of respiration corresponds how useful structured
set and Clause occur, and how the song takes place when the sale is
over.

Should really be you recognize a good prose book already in the typographical
arrangement, so to speak, his Facade presents.

This is now the epic adventure of the artist's intellectual image and the strange sensation
of the plastic near the word that can prevent the flattening of his Expression preserved. For
how else could a written language for centuries, healthy and capable
of operating Remain?

The refinement of the expressions does not taste and sense of form
alone not too virile, - just living as one with the word preserved
as an organism the language of the epic before withering and dying.

To make this understandable, it is difficult if you do not feel it.

YOUNG:

I feel it. I often felt when I read Gottfried Keller. A very common word, that in our everyday
language sounded so flat and so dead looked like a worn coin, suddenly stood there like a
magic cloak wrapped strange and new.

OLD MAN:

And yet the most of our young poets, word searches, but what is worse, they understand not to
tell on a large breath. I do not deny the authority of the Writer, his sentences apart hook and
deploy them in a stormy pace to leave if the situation him and his nature to do so. But just
as a man may linger for a long time in a state of breathlessness, little can tolerate this Book without
that it aroused unease and distaste. I have had books in hand, in which close and loud narrow-chested
little sentence stood side by side, dull and sad as soldiers at the
parade.

Individual parts of a sentence floated like cut hands and feet in
a broth unnecessary punctuation, and each rhythm was torn, because
a decent mediocrity of the letter is less respected as a tormented
nonsense, or because the feeling awakened should be, the author was
deeply moved by what he wrote.

From the Author will be required no emotion, God has not every tree and every hill a List reassigned
to read that says: how beautiful, how vast, how characteristic am I do. God is humble, he is invisible,
hidden in his world, and with the great artists It is the same. Invisibility of the narrator is
asked on the says what he most Visibility.

YOUNG:

There is nothing wrong. There is no way to deny that such a thick volume Novel is the story
of the strict form difficult if not impossible to hold. Such Book would be bored by its monotony,
I think, and you can not wrong the author To give this fate when he talks of dramatic and
exciting descriptions of his book seeks to avert.

OLD MAN:

This is an issue in itself.

One can not expect a cookbook that scientific Solves problems.

If there is a poet too difficult to create a work of art, so be content himself with the concoction,
but he should not then claim to be called an artist. Do the monster for fat volumes are written,
of which you speak?

And if they must be written, I am committed about my involvement
with them?

Wanted our discussions in these lower circles represent what was there not to say anything
about which to complain: about the women's writing, publishing, the wretched translations from
other languages, etc. But we want the most artistic of all the laws
on our Entertainment use and stay on task.

YOUNG:

You're right. However, there are mixing products, which are not allowed to discard and a deeper
Action and a mightier than the creation motif have pure art.

This must be not forgotten.

OLD MAN:

I think this is a mistake.

Those works of art that behind and duration of effect back are the
products that you mentioned are just not truly be alive, and its decline
is only a matter of time.

YOUNG:

All, all the doomed. Even Homer and Shakespeare.

OLD MAN:

A foolish phrase. You will go under if the world is sinking, and the light in Darkness turns. They
belong to humanity, and of the immortality humanity to speak out has no meaning.

YOUNG:

Following me is not quite clear. It is a matter of the story to the Show an operation and within
the process again to the coloring of individual images or situations for without such pictures, I
would still carry more history than art. How bring I now the situation without violating the law
of the epic continue to flow contrary? With In short, how can I be both narrative and vivid?

OLD MAN:

To answer this question I will read you a passage from Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship. It says:
"Two or three houses were in full flame. In the garden there was no one can save because of the fire
in the garden arch. William was embarrassed by his friends, less because of his things. He did
not dare to leave the children, and saw the accident expand forever. He brought in a few hours of anxiously
situation. Felix was on his lap to sleep, Mignon was lying next to him and held his hand. Finally
had the measures did stop the fire stations. The burned buildings collapsed, The morning came, the
children began to freeze, and he himself was mild in its Clothes falling dew almost unbearable. He
led them to the rubble of collapsed Building, and they found next to a coal-ash pile and a very
comfortable warmth. The dawning day brought all friends and acquaintances gradually together,
etc. "You see clear how chaste and reserved the extraordinary event
in the general narrative mood dissolves.

Quiet follows the painting of the most economical beautiful situation
of the person lying on the ash heap of the new process, and in the
sentence There is not the slightest excitement.

Compare this with even the appearance of a fire Zola, detail of forces itself on individuality.
The enormous flood of details destroyed the image and flooded the imagination. From fifty
pages of description makes the epic poet ten lines. The narrative style is based not on the painting
of the situations, but He calls the situation out only to higher purpose, to glide past them
in perfect peace to leave. It is quite exemplary Kleist, perhaps
the greatest narrative genius is that we have. As in folk tales, with
a raised scarcity it creates movement to movement. Only in this way
also creates the vitality of the term, she is the Papierene taken,
and it has supported the most accomplished portrayer, she suddenly
has inner strength the blood of a breathing creature, and how the
work on the whole, it is not in itself an organism with flesh and
soul. The tree is made up of tiny cells, and the health of its Fruit
depends on the health of those inconspicuous tissue. The breadth and
wealth of period requires the breadth and depth of the whole, not
adventurousness of operations, not Weitspurigkeit the system, not
the most select psychological tinkering, no novelty of the topic,
no external power, no spirit, no joke, not philosophical depth, a
work to which the qualities of true epic and rest lack, raise to the
rank of an artwork.

YOUNG:

Now it is once again on the rest. But
we have found that it is the movement the art of life is, we have
found it very nice that the futility of Motion produces the impression
of art, is now suddenly the rest Allesbedingende be. This is bewildering.
Rest? That would be synonymous with cold, that would mean, the whole
denied being the poet to speak the Artistentum the word. It is not a happy life she leads now, though, for there is continual trouble between
the husband and the children, so she is grievously harassed in mind continually."

Sir Albert listened as an uninterested person might, then asked some questions about Hugh Price
and his good wife Dorothe, and the refractory children, who were causing so much trouble. He
found the Virginian voluble and willing to impart all the information he had; but he grew heartily
tired of the loafer and at last left him.

No one was more interested in the stranger from across the sea than Rebecca Stevens. She had
not seen him; but she had heard so much of him from her brother and others, that her girlish
curiosity was aroused. One evening, as she was taking her favorite walk about the village,
having wandered farther than she intended, she found herself in the wood above the town, near
the old building, which Captain John Smith had called the glass-house. She turned and began
at once retracing her steps, for already the sun had set, and the shades of night were gathering
over the landscape. She was in sight of the church, when a short, fat little man suddenly met
her. He was out of breath, as if he had been running. In the gathering twilight she recognized
him as her persecutor.

"Ah! Miss Stevens, this is truly extraordinary. Believe me, this meeting is quite providential,
for it enables me to pour into your ear my tale of love." A look, a real word, an effect from human to human, human Attentiveness, willingness
of the heart can do more, far more mean. The evil is here in a rugged, anarchic look to the
dissolved company, which no living organization and has every reason in the fullness of abundance,
abundance to every load, every hindrance to false Activity and any separation of the individual members
with insufficient power of individual and provision for disaster. The literature is considered
a trade like any other, the so-called talent is enough to get ahead. The incidence is overestimated,
the incidence is the detail and the Detailkrämerei begins to excite us spiritual indigestion;
the makers, the gesture, the language of almost self-working mechanism and the habit to express opinion
as standard, to divest themselves of mental tension by keeping them reveals and in a quasi-poetic
form, which usually leads to the shamelessness cold Psychology, petrified to places, and the ease
and speed of communication, all this encourages the individual always to isolate the literary
and political, social and kill it humanely. If you come to the conclusion that the so-called
talent in the most cases, only a being who lives in voluntary exile of a community it can not
be useful, a parasite and privateers would have won a lot, and the thirty thousand books, who
flock every year in Germany on the market would, under the pressure of a wiser and a more rational
choice appeal to a necessary number to shrink, perhaps more castles in the content.

The woman than to love and conceiving certain creature isolated human and spiritual, Infertility in social and
egoistic personification of their deeper fate of their anonymous
beautiful effect (like much but owes its participation in the glory
of our great Artists), so, to see life stripped of their myth, granted
a sad picture far-reaching Misunderstanding.

I speak not of course the actress, singer, of receptive Arts and this harmony, as long as a literary
impact by exaggerating Individual ambition and purpose being held, very well with the female soul,
with their mental ability to change, clinging poeticization of feeling and reality. The dancer,
who only uses her body for artistic expression, offers perhaps the noblest picture of feminine
genius. Only where the creativity is simulated shows, the woman (with the exception of two or three
cases in the whole history of thought) at once as a writer par excellence. Nature can not
deceive the man, as only people can be deceived. They do than they thought, even when its
interior uninvolved is, they take the miraculous for the miracle, the last resort for the necessary,
the Phantom for the phenomenon. The woman as a writer does not need more to tell, there is
nothing to betrayed, it's all from simple sincerity, honesty and transparency. We see a capable,
industrious, intelligent and thoughtful work, which neither word, nor rhythm, nor idea may be to
mask the pain of loneliness and the only comfortable manner suspect not mentally increases
and dissolves, no tragedy, only a characterized and random shape.

Results

The writer is the myth of detached productive human being.

He is also separate from the human society, the individual, within only external laws cemented
community.

Just as it is unthinkable without the example of the creative people,
he remains in his actions, by his personality effort by the need the
reflection, through the element of ambition and by the element of
betrayal of the Company connected.

The writer is forgetful. He is unkind, because it involved too much in itself is. He does not
recognize any convention, because only his own person to him the standard for the world and
things are. This lack of convention led him to an artificial originality using the rare observation
of the rare word, the rare rhythm.

The writer is vanity and yearning, vain self, where he exposes himself, and eagerly most places
where it is lost. He is restless, always eager for change, understanding
but do not migrate.

His relationship with people is rarely permanent, and he is the highest Claims on his part
to satisfy without any endorsement from the other side.

He controls his own actions, thoughts and feelings very sharp, even
cruel.

It lack of respect for him at that himself, which distinguishes the creative person. Because
he is so relentlessly and ruthlessly against himself, he believes it against other be allowed,
but he forgets that that rage against his own soul only a pretext for Betrayal, but is not a means
for cleaning, enhancement and liberation. Introspection Selbstzerfaserung is unfortunate as
it is difficult to think bigger, and all original force of faith, all capacity for moral elevation,
the conversion goes, based on it. Even the religious or the creative individual watched himself,
but he will while a parable; by this Gleichniswerdung he can correct himself and modest.

Not without deep reason such a large number of letters found among
the Jews.

In the Existence of the Jews is the sharpest contrast of mental and psychological characteristics
known. He is either the godless or the gotterfüllteste of all people, he is either truly social, it
was in old, lifeless forms, be it new, utopian, the Old destructive, or he will look into anarchic
loneliness only themselves. Either he a fanatic or an indifferent, either a mercenary or a prophet.
The fate the nation, its isolation in foreign nations, their enormous economic and intellectual
efforts in the fight against the most adverse circumstances, the constant state of Defense, the
self-assertion, the sudden awakening on the morning of a culture day, the passionate Take
the tools and weapons of this culture and the violent repression carried out and fragmentation
of the tradition, all that saw the Jews as a whole people to a kind of literary role predetermined. Where,
however, the individual becomes conscious again of the great relationship, where it rests in the lap
of history, tradition, where symbols carry him EMA, EMA Blood flows give it all at once noble consciousness
and acquired and acquired organic it melts as it may well find their way to the divine than
others. The Jew as Europeans, as a cosmopolitan man of letters, the Jew as Oriental, not ethnography,
but in the mythical sense than what the transforming power of the present already the condition
making can be a creator.

All professions and all classes have their writers. You can set up the sentence: Any expert is a writer,
any layman with a bit of myth.

For all technical nature and specialization is just one feature of the great process of individualization
time. Forces us to deepen Secretion, the abundance of labor. This is good and essential. Now, however, occurred
the odd thing that just at this, the modesty imperiously demanding activity individuals are
suspicious watchfulness of the psychologists who expressed an ambition of the Tribune, that he
of all that does not relate his subject, in a defiant and indifferent Distance and has a life
outside of the tray often hardly know. The writer is a born Zünftler.

Amateur writers sometimes give to the Council that it not only in
his purchase order relying on the art, next select an office or a
day job.

This is just as, like trying to convince a medical specialist to operate the way the joinery, because
he has too few patients. By law, he would reply: My professional to man altogether, all my time,
my whole effort and all thoughts. The writer is just only a writer, he can not be anything else. The
proposal of the laity is of course in every Meaning foolish. Office and living as the only amateurs
are good, depending inward his relationship to art is, the more he must suffer honing employment.
The creative man it is complete torture, and calls him his job entirely, though in a different
way, not because he is a writer, who wants to conquer and must, but because he is a man, because
myth and humanity require of him that he should surrender himself unconditionally and without reservation.
Acquisition or inactivity of earthly goods is higher in this account no longer in question;
bad enough if it is relevant to consider in lower consideration.

However, is the naked and honest comparison of the economic and spiritual Powers to the image
of our times.

Capital will benefit; performance will usufruct, labor and increase awareness of life itself are
mutually supportive, success, confirmation and contract are the individual rapid and abundant
metered as ever, and though the temptation is often followed only because a performance seems
so close, the call only because so many listeners find, because in it the satisfaction of
extravagant claims are promised, there can hardly paid a premium be without the full, so passionate
use of drive and intensity.

This passion, this momentum, the indefatigable rivalry, they may sign for the emergence of a
greater time, timid signs because they're just getting personal and adhere selfish. But as hardware
in the fire of the furnace are melted together, then the cut in pieces and the fragmentation of
an individualistic society all members of a taken, steady stream of passion, no matter where
it arises, be converted to organic unity. Passion is indeed the first and last life force; in
their element and will be united, they can cause an unproductive order to chaos, but produce from
the chaos again a new world, collection from the Diaspora. Then may be a way to open up the
myth and to God.

The art of narrative

Written in 1904

YOUNG:

It's probably been over a year that we have
not seen.

Since the death of my friend is, I hardly have come at people and I leave my hotel room, with
only isolated Walks. My only pleasure are the books and thinking about the impression they made
me. I think if I once again would take pen in hand, so I could make something solid.

OLD MAN:

And why it drives you, then? An artist should not be like a hunter who blithely what may come
to him before the shot, stripped across the terrain, but it must be like a sailor of the internal
sense, the inner eye constantly on a perhaps not visible, but deeply conscious goal oriented.
So why it drives you? What do you think you born? What Island of the mind you want to discover
you?

YOUNG:

I feel nothing else to talk about pleasure and joy as stories. In the hours of Loneliness and
the collection it is to me as if my heart would be filled to the brim with Events and destinies. I am
often is courage, as though the whole course of the world, by Adams
At times, revealed itself to me in a special way, and I feel the irresistible
desire how shall I say?

... tell tell.

OLD MAN:

This is beautiful, gorgeous even.

If you really have this desire and it does not misunderstand the fact as you follow it, then
you were born, but to tell.

YOUNG:

How should I misunderstand it? Why do you doubt? Is there anything simpler?

OLD MAN:

That it is simply no way, no way, of course, you could have a look
at today's products teach this art.

Most people do not know everything so, what it ie: telling a story,
and even the most gifted get louder and hybrid Mißformen forth.

YOUNG:

You are very strict as ever. I do not think you're right. Never was so much in Work like right
now. On all sides it is day.

OLD MAN:

The eternal mistake of youth.

YOUNG:

Then I have to fear that you too, I even created yet discard wilt.

OLD MAN:

Then I could answer only if I knew how things are with you and if you otherwise met the love
of the thing, if your mind is nothing more than striving to complete in her if you was afraid
of the truth or whether frivolous praise thee not been blinded for ever added. If you're afraid
of a bitter hour, then do not hide it, I like to keep quiet. Do you remember?

YOUNG:

Do you think because your opinion of irrefutable, for the only possible?

Can not there is fraud, based on Unmilde on attachment?

OLD MAN:

I will seek to establish you, and if you can refute my arguments, I will I consider sufficient.

YOUNG:

So
talk.

OLD MAN:

There are three types of writers: those who have their own style and
be prepared to form prime assets, those looking for a unique style,
and finally those that find the one style and all the world to behave
to him as the guest of an inn to the tables and chairs and jars, and
may never become Lord of their word, their thoughts, be their phrase,
the ardent experience they need to solidify, sublime moods trivial,
any inspiration is intended any outside influence imitation, all that
strong is brutal, and what is fine, delicate.

But of these writers, the obtain market goods for the great company that we do not want to
talk. You belong to the second kind

YOUNG:

That would no longer bad. We are all seekers. Yes, you can say that the greatest Master has
not stopped until his dying day to search.

Why are you smiling?

OLD MAN:

Because I look at this remark, how little do you understand me yet. If the major Master looking
for, they want to create harmony between matter and form. They know that it without such harmony
is absolutely no work of art. And because they know that and this Ways to aspire to perfection
and will probably keep the abundance of their resources to the wrong Subject to waste or in the wrong
place, so always come about, what the art and their own creative personality is under. You
look with open eyes, but her investigated as a blind, they go the
right way and get to a goal, if not always in desired, but it stumbles
around in circles. The seekers who do not know about the nature, are
doomed.

YOUNG:

You make me really nervous. I would hate you if I
do not know how serious you mean it. I can guess where you're getting
at. Say so and at last from me. 

OLD MAN:

Good. Two things, a seemingly
outer and an inner apparently, I have first to your Suspend work:
namely, that they do not satisfy the reader with ease and that it
the fabric of existence itself lacks necessity. Both Though this intimate
than you think, I'll prove soon.

YOUNG:

What do you mean by comfort?
The contrary, we aim at but, if we contrive Seals: Agitation, excitement,
participation, vibration. I think you doing your fun with me.

OLD
MAN:

Patience. I understand the comfort here in a higher, artistic
sense. I understand including the unlimited confidence of the ideal
reader for the narrator. This trust is created created by credibility,
and credibility is now out of the necessity of the narrated Article.
You see now how hard is the relationship between the two things, and
yet it is integral to the eye and the feeling of what the layman,
the amateur, the average critic of the technique is known: the nature
of storytelling, and it is only a seemingly external, because in reality
it is the soul of the epic art. The news was brought to Bacon
while on the upper waters, by Lawrence and Drummond.

Bacon began his march back to the lower waters. On the way, they captured a spy sent by Berkeley
to their camp and hung him. Bacon went to the Middle Plantation, afterward Williamsburg, and
camped.

Berkeley, hearing of the return of Bacon's army, which was not disbanded, hastened to Accomac
for recruits, and Drummond urged Bacon to depose Berkeley, and appoint Sir Henry Chicheley
in his place. When the leader of the rebellion murmured against this, the Scotchman answered:

"Do not make so strange of it, for I can show you ancient records that such things have been
done in Virginia."

This, however, was carrying matters too far, even for Bacon. He remembered that Governor Harvey,
who had been deposed in a similar manner, was reinstated by the king. He issued a remonstrance
against Berkeley's proclamation denouncing him as a rebel, declaring that he and his followers
were good and loyal subjects of the king of England, who were only in arms against the savages.
Then followed a list of public grievances. He declared that some in authority had come to the
country poor, and were now rolling in wealth, likening them to sponges, that have sucked up
and devoured the common treasury. He asked, "What arts, sciences, schools of learning, or manufactures
have been promoted by any now in authority?"

The governor's beaver trade with Indians, in which he thought more of his profits than the
lives of his subjects on the frontier, was not forgotten.

Bacon was declared a rebel, his life was forfeited to Berkeley if captured, and while at the
Middle Plantation, he required an oath of his followers to even resist the king's troops if
they should come to Virginia. The people of Virginia had not yet learned the true principles
of liberty. They still supposed that liberty could be gained while they retained their allegiance
to the king of England. It required a hundred years more to convince them that freedom was
incompatible with royalty. If the dark conditions and processes in the chest so dragged into the light be that
man, so to speak in itself has no more home, where he and his reticent may present, he has gradually but it
will feel like as if he was naked, on pilloried agency. I, for my part I feel my way through
the constant, vigilant understanding of another, and he was the most beloved creatures, made entirely
in the pillory, and I also tell you that me that women who liked to call it misunderstood, me,
me for my part, have always seemed just shameless. Those would be the one. Then are those in
which the modesty to the pathological increases and living in such thin air that them the well is
sensible to disgust. I once had such an unfortunate for the girlfriend; she was the modesty
of nature, but was sometimes formal unveiling of a delusion followed, and by surrendering, she underwent
a compulsion that she was exercising a little, what its true nature was just the opposite.
There was no support, no attitude, and when loved her one day, she denied herself the man in
question because she was convinced that he only loved her body and the soul. Is not that awful?
A single, coarse Misunderstanding of life? "

"Of course, there are women enough in this respect a fatal error and
Stock Access have fallen, "I replied.

"The most disastrous mistake, they may commit, but, when they conclude from their kind of modesty
and how to overcome a concept of loyalty, the law for them and need for the man but a voluntary
action. These voluntary again submit to a higher necessity, which is the act of a loving husband,
a Act committed by his culture, his self-control, his sense of beauty depends. The women only have the
shame of sex, and the chastity of a nun and the corruption of a prostitute are only different
effects the same force, similar States with different obstacles. The man is another peculiar modesty,
a supernatural, I would like to mention the shame before God, and he can lose it only if He
loses himself before God. We thus have the spectacle of a constant war two for the reason and
nature to completely dissimilar species of modesty, and during a woman to speak her literally,
she wears or how to make a yields Dress with or drops, the man concealed his, for he is only
a symbol. Never should a woman come up to drag the icon to the reality that such to make a claim
from them. "

"It says - man," cried Faustina!. "I must have very high estimate, dear friend, if not I will
find presumptuous. Loud and clear speaking this means yet, the love the woman is a reality
that the man's an icon. Or not? "

"Excellent formulated, Faustina."

"Well, fine. I will argue, however, because it leads to infinity. I see the only way much, the
daily experience proves to me that this reality is no backlog and this symbol has no meaning. Nonsense,
nonsense, nothing but nonsense! Best friend, lock me but not a 'for all times in the lumber-room
of the' reality! Remember that even I have loved! Yes, really, really loved! I can not prove
that it was more as an earthly, Earthbound, purpose and time-bound and visual evidence, but
that I can prove that the other, the partners in the game, ventured not to bet that the trouble
worth while can fight to prove I do, that his love - and he loved - only inadequate was not
enough to the point where a symbolic force of the fleeting life holds. But why so high words?
Napoleon on St. Helena did the outrageous statement: Such a villain can not be a man when I
think of him that he is one. Almost every Woman can say the same about their experiences in love,
provided that they are not a animal is blind. According to their method you will probably tell
me, however: you have not understood how to choose. Yes, for God's sake, if not proved, the I
know to be the best, why then hits my heart, why I think and feel then? Either I must therefore
deny my life in the root or all your wisdom to me to sophistry. There's a man who worships me,
it seems to me certain that I gave him a lot, that I was all, am I clear, conspire to him, and since
I have to discover that he was to win only understood to possess, to defend the property to educate,
raise, he is not to capable. Or another case: there is a man of spirit, mind, talent, but he
lives in deep Misery. Pity me closer to him, I manage a storm of energy in him To unleash the
love of me wearing it up, the fate favors him, but he can never get over that the one he loves,
including his assistant, he himself confessed to me his shame, and all failed because of a cricket.
"

"And what did you do?"

"What should I do?

I let him go his way. Is it not this shame, shame, more of the powerful to be, you call symbolic?
"

The man had probably not add much, so they took away the shame of his love Force, "I replied.
"It just depends on what has to add one, and for the man in love is actually all just a question
of power. Compassion is the enemy of love, Pity destroys the equality of rights, just as an exclusive
aesthetic pleasure; that creates a too close, this is a large distance. The pitied and admired not
breathe the same atmosphere with the person who cherishes compassion and admiration, and they
do not talk to each other in the same language. But there are ways to bridge the schism, and the woman
is the one which may act as in the other case, balancing, and through the divine quality of
gentleness. You, Faustina, are not soft enough. "

"Not gentle enough! This I was told before.

If I was gently told, would have I have less reason to complain about
life.

"

"Or about love. That's my opinion. "

"Gentleness!

The valuable gift to remain silent, if one is entered, and only sigh, when the heart breaks,
which is called meekness, gentleness, the men who call. And because they them is the most convenient
property in woman, so she is praised. But whoever has eyes and sees, and sees much, and blood, which
heats up and a fist, the clump must can not be soft. "

"Gently, Faustina. They remind me a little of the boy, whom you asked who bravely was hot, and said it, be
brave, who does not run away. Meekness is not Compliance, not submission, not silence. Meekness
is the rest of the general to compare, or the prudence of the artist. It is not a weakness, but
a Force. She is in love the real strength of the woman, her weapon as her guardian. You is
not tied to a certain temperament, they can, the choleric, the melancholic they can be denied. In any
action or inaction, it expresses itself: in the joy of fear in sorrow and in pain, eye and crotch.
It is almost a rhythm of life. The smile of the gentle wife is irresistible, the gentle lady
is never ugly. Now of course, the real sweetness is almost as rare as the love, and unfortunately
we have to ascertaining numerical, that it is becoming increasingly rare, the more grows the
excitability of the nerves, the more the women know about love and about love, and the less they
feel love. For the love of women is mainly due to an elemental, placed on a unconscious. Since
there are women's rights and women's jobs, it is corporations and organized meetings. It likes
a lot Useful result, but for the gentleness is to fear everything.

Never have the difference observed between the taste of a pear, which comes fresh from the tree,
and none, the others already in many pears was located in the attic? Such a difference exists
between the woman as an individual and the woman, who operated social. "

"You may indeed be right," said Faustina. "But the pear tree, many of pears. If pears therefore wait
to wander in the sweet tooth to eat the most? The rest can wait, they have to rot and fall into
the grass, how? To the gentleness sake. Thank you. We do not have enough users, we poor pears to be
accommodated and we must . Seek You want us in, do you want us angelic, you will, that each
for a Messiah save, but you, you want to do without anything, no
lust denied the satisfaction no appetite for the relief.

And the Messiah, which occurs finally with us, either a silly Fant, who do not know what he
holds in his hands and blind youth noise fling, or a critical gentleman who toddles again when
the bulb has a stain. "

"That's probably true, Faustina, practically speaking, it is true, and that you have reason, you to
protect themselves, only a fool to remain hidden. However, a higher pinnacle considered, things
are different. Nature does not want her to come earlier. She wants not that their most sacred
law, the law of selection, is overturned, and if it still happens, she takes revenge by bringing
forth creatures cope with life. Do you know for example, that our rules of the game-bred and
resilience of the game, particularly of the noble game, considerable demolition to do? We have
women who are forced to call to take the job, without pathos they do, earn their bread, others with
intelligence and ingenuity at work to alleviate social distress. Who would have no objection
to that? The fate of the individual will always inspire me to participate, or if there is a Nähmamsell
is a princess; mass aspirations but when the direct passion of the
experience , Of course, be without me cold.

The nature of women indicated more than that of the man on Separation, and I've always found that the
nobler nature of the woman only by virtue of this separation preserved, and that it had for
the perfection of the breed can not pay for expensive enough. "

"And if that were the case," said Faustina, "which would help it?

Is then the woman is not always compliant the best, where the man
gives the example of noble initiative?

But what avails the nature of what even God will help the law of
selection, if it is contrary to the law of inertia?

"

"The inertia ... Even before you have used the word. They said inertia of the heart. "

Yes. Inertia of the heart. "

"Inertia of the heart is one of the seven deadly sins, as far as I know."

"She is the only mortal sin, there is."

"So you hide behind a large sense, something like an idea."

"A lot of sense because you are right, a painful sense. The good that I want, this I do not, but
the evil I do not want is what I do, says a letter from the Paul to the Romans. There is a recognition:
the feeling defies identification, insisting on the wrong Way, or there is a feeling, a great,
a true, and yet, it can be deceiving, it can get confused by talk and by thinking. The result
of inertia of the heart, and is itself still deeper, harder, darker, more guilty. There was passage
of time, where people their instincts were more submissive, barbaric, warlike, by and large a Thing, asked
at a target time. Because of inertia of the heart was a sin equal to others are, like greed
or envy or greed. Today, man is held accountable Today, everyone is responsible. You said it
yourself, not the religion, Heaven and hell he can make an excuse and evasion, in his heart he must be fate
. Search Since inertia is the cardinal sin of the heart and how it is now, this sin is to all
of us as storm load. Ask for examples? Where do I start? where to end? , Passing when the voice
of the mind to stay warned, stay, if it demands that I go; close your eyes when it is seen
to be silent, and when it is necessary to take sides; judge and condemn, though much depends
on it to be silent and to exercise clemency, the pure Mind numb, the unclean to incite false fact,
the purposes do where there are, for justice seek and forget the love, love to claim, without
giving them, and want to enjoy not pay; speak of God and feed the devil inside, ideals and
a raise poor debtor quoted in court, and revel in music and poetry from the little man duties
take to flight, friendship and praise deny that friend, a philosopher and Servants abuse, the
genius of desire and if he shows him and revile the mud drag, all this, forget all this, all
this knowledge and not-doing is inertia of the heart. Oh, how beautiful is the heart! how much
capable! how much it can! And love, the heart of the heart, as it is neglected, abused, raped and
trampled! How walled are all heart, as each may be a little betrayed, and how quickly and readily
the the other! We are talking about love, love, and where is the love? A symbol be, a rare phenomenon,
but I would have seen it, I want it! Show me a love of fans, please show me a prodigal of love!
The love of the I know, was always just a tender plant, it endured the storms of life do not
hidden from the sun and crawled into labyrinthine labyrinthine depths, detached from the world,
the night faces. I once asked a man if his mistress is beautiful. You are, that he could not claim,
he said, but everything was characteristic of her.

Why, I said to him, you are a very spiffy fellow.

Characteristic!

A cute word! One would have it in iron Letters pour and nail to the pillory of the century.
Everything is so characteristic as unique, so special, so artificial, so split up into small,
into the spiritual diluted so shy, so timid, so knowing and so uncertain in any sense. What
is there for God sake, to hope, my friend! What a full heart can still hope for you? There is
only one; There is only one: be modest. "

"There is a second, Faustina, a larger one."

"What's that?"

"The joy of the phenomenon. Lamentably, however, is the pressure under which we live, the strangely
fatalistic meaning grass. The existence is always illusory, its short duration is always painfully
aware, and he who seeks meaning and love, may well in unmeasured
Despair fall if it does not save this one: to look.

The show ends unraveled the world, it is unraveling every dark and
he puts his hand on graves and they are to altars, he walks through
snow and he feels the spring, he is abandoned by his friends and he
lives with humanity.

That things are there, that I own that Creator and created are mine, that life, as far as possible
and felt, in me infected, that there is nothing, not the least thought and felt outside the
circle of life, and the monster that I like the inconspicuous, High and Low, the procession
of the Emperor and the passing flutter of a butterfly, that my beauty and ugliness, love and
Hatred, self-alienation and inertia of the heart, that I all this is to appearance, the can
save me. "

"With such a quietism I will not reassure me," Faustina said gloomily.

"If the quietism would, then the world would no longer capable of its orbit around the sun to
run. Believe it not, Faustina, that I am free to speak of human I wanted to do or get rid of
mitstrebenden heart. It is not an artistic, not a aesthetic principle,
but quite a religious, certainly a divine.

As in the Love through a most blissful and instinctive recognition of the merits and faults
of others an adorable image are combined, this is the way it is with the beholder with the
world. It has everything inside, everything is outside, he has the inside; it is not lost, him all
things are present. He is down, he gives off, but he throws away never because, as he has life
and how he has God, he has himself And that, Faustina is the big
one: have himself.

Then we have the world, has to the humanity, the others who throw themselves at all hours, having
nothing and no one.

Only the expectation of the love they deceive the hope of possession.

"

Faustina had turned his head and remained silent. A long time passed in silence and Girlfriend
was constantly turned away his head.

The spoken words produced a double Silence. It was well past midnight when I was preparing myself
to go. With rigid enough air Faustina my hand. She looked at me, and miraculously, her eyes were
full of questions like that of a little girl.

Very much I would have again seen Faustina, but when I came two days later in the apartment, I was
told that she was gone.

The writer

Written in 1909

The writer, a mysterious being has decreed, the culture of our time his indelible Stamp impressed.
Yes, you could say that what is now commonly under the title Culture understands the work of writers is.

What
is a man of letters?

Subsequent studies will answer this question, they want the nature
and impact of the writers, the conditions of his life, the foundations
and objectives his mind with the help of some of typed characters
explore.

The order established representative figures are, of course, hardly in a reality can find such
a distinction and formulaic; life gives mixtures. It is the psychologists much of the Tribune,
in a lot of amateur psychologists in the Apostles prove much of Schöngeist can. It is also possible
that a single person in the elements of several of the types put that beautiful spirit and a
psychologist, or amateur, Tribune and apostles are united. Even people in the creative features
of the letters are available, perhaps the modern era generally failed to produce a creative person
who would be entirely free of it. When writers but the properties are designated by one of
those representatives are in certain and prominent way to enter appearance, and the specificity
and the varying extent the mixture are likely to him in his human and artistic reach the interesting
Difficult to give attractive and unfathomable.

The writer as a dilettante

An art of love mercy, to the point that makes the amateurs in the noble meaning of the word.
The dilettante and the artist may differ only by the consequence of a suffering state, which
has captivated the artist in his art, while the Dilettante remains free. The artist is tied,
only his desire, the power of his Spirit, to identify with all things
of this world, makes it seem free.

When Amateurs, it is vice versa. The dabbler really identified with the things of this World while
his spirit is bound. His desire is not directed therefore against the world as against something that
conquers, understood to be interpreted, but to the art whose He wants to seize. The artist,
the art inside and wants to speak their discard in exchange for a piece of divine and the world,
the amateur it out and she wants to win by calm in the world and God within him and thereby
seeks to bring into harmony.

The writer as a dilettante, but neither the world nor God nor art in itself to him is not only
in art that looks, to snatch, but also the world and God.

He enters empty on the plan. He's probably tired of experiences. He is not very organized Soul,
little else would be fighting not be able to tire him. He has a battle attended, in the back row he
has heard the gunfire and watched as one Dead and wounded was over. That was enough to satisfy
him with revulsion against the war, yes, he is the most thorough hater of all warfare has become
one of quietist philosophy, because it forces the state of his mind to deal with his weakness as
a strength.

Already it can be concluded that he was not part of an inner necessity in the fight has, so to
speak of patriotism or love of military life or desire for distinction. He has been dug just
like so many other recruits to do so, and he was from the outset a skeptical soldier, that is
the worst soldier is thinking.

As you drive something must in the world, he has become a soldier, he takes the leave, so
he is, with the exception of the obtained disgust and horror, again as empty as it was before, and he
does not quite know what now begin. It occurs not only empty but also draw on the plan, and
because he commanded not a must, he is not hungry. Only people who are under a tyrannical Must
grind are hungry, all the rest are more or less satisfied.

He remembers well that hunger is one of them to choose, hunger, excitement, longing, an ideal desire.
The world, the people, the phenomena of life attract his participation little or only insofar
as his person is affected. All at once directed his Desire, all his power and desire to injure
themselves. He decides to completely and even for his own person, that he had been in the back rows
of the combatants, been only dimly aware of was. His own personality is revealed to him suddenly
as an object of unprecedented importance as an undiscovered region, whose beauty and virtues
to teach the rest of mankind is now his most imperious instinct. Everything he does, thinks and
feels, seems to him amazing, special and worthy of being communicated to a large degree. The unnoticed
and darker his existence was until now, the more it pushes him into a to provide focus. But how
did he do this?
He walks with instinctive cunning to work. He adorns himself, and
although he is adorned his sufferings, of his experiences, with a
strikingly tapered, intensified and strong opinions about people and
destinies. He excites the curiosity and his instinct led him admirably,
for curiosity, in a common, as in a higher Sense, is the most striking
train the society from which it comes and focusing He wants to be,
the center of the creative person really is. Also, the creative Man
drives on the image of the world, but because by it increases, thus
alone, when he turns off his person from his work and in its place
is something that I call fictional personality. The creative individual
is his own person only a pretext a starting point, the writer as a
dilettante sees in it the essence and the goal. The creative Man is
lonely by nature and by definition, yet he lives among the people
because humanity it is an essential element by which he suffers because
he was born is to suffer, because suffering is that state of mind
which enables him to create. The writer as an amateur is never lonely,
the less the more he in himself and in himself infected. He turns
away to the solitude of an artificial replacement for natural to attract
the creative people, he is adorned with loneliness, and this is a
means to arouse curiosity.

"I shall be better soon," he answered. "When once we have met these devils and had this fight
over with, I will be well; but I shall free Virginia, or die in the effort."

"Have a care for your health."

"I shall live to see the tyrant more humbled than when he fled Jamestown."

Bacon was angry and more eager to fight as his illness increased than when well. They crossed
the lower York in boats at Ferry Point and marched into Gloucester, where he made his headquarters
at Colonel Warner's and issued his "Mandates" to the Gloucester men to meet him at the court
house and subscribe to the Middle Plantation oath. They hesitated; but as Colonel Brent was
reported to be advancing at the head of a thousand men, Bacon ordered the drums beat, mustered
his men, and they set out toward the Rappahanock in high spirits.

On that afternoon Bacon was occasionally irritable; at other times he became hilarious, and
at others stupid. Robert, who rode at his side, saw that he was burning with fever, and he
was glad that night when they camped.

"Spread a tent for the general, for he is sick," said Robert. The men could not realize how
sick he was. Camp fires blazed. Brent was but a few miles away, and his forces were deserting
him by scores and coming over to Bacon, who was not thought to be dangerously ill. When Robert
entered his tent at ten that night, he found him sitting up giving some directions for the
quartering of new troops.

"Are you better, general?" he asked.

"I am very tired. I shall lie down and sleep. I will be over this in the morning."

As long as Robert lived, he remembered those words. He knew the general was in a raging fever,
yet he little thought it would prove fatal. He went to his own quarters on that October night
and sought repose. It was an hour before daylight, when Mr. Drummond and Mr. Lawrence awoke him.

"General Bacon is dead," they said.

"What! dead?" cried Robert.

"Yes, dead and buried. We thought it best to bury him in the forest where his enemies could
not find him. Brent is crushed; his men have deserted him, and all are with us. The general
died very suddenly in the arms of Major Pate."

It was the purpose of the friends of liberty to keep the death of Bacon a secret, and there
is some dispute in history as to where and when he died. News of this character cannot be suppressed.
It came out, and the republicans of Virginia began to lose heart from that hour, while the
royalists' hopes increased.

Another general was elected to fill the place made vacant by Bacon. "Sense is not with passion, I admit. But
if we want to recognize the love only in its perfection, which then remains still exist? which
may then called love? Let me make things a little easier. Man, as he is just able, not at the
height of his feeling to hold. The kindest, the noblest has a devil in the chest, forcing him
to participate in the to rob God of his being.


"Thomas Hansford," cried Berkeley, "I will quickly repay you for your part in this rebellion!" Perhaps the profession, perhaps the formation, perhaps both. One Moloch
devours the time, the beautiful muse futile dreams, destroys other the originality of the emotions.
There are too few people who are bored, or better words that have the talent to get bored.
It is rational to the everyday Whims. You always want a reason and always a purpose. It is no longer
walk, but to do tours. If one's life is at risk, it happens to things that its not are worth. As
for me, I saw men, serious men frightened at the mere Thoughts of deeper attachment. I knew others
who went out on adventures and the haste, as of thunder chased fled when they were in danger,
a passion to subject to their masters, they could not be. There is a man, capable of devotion, yes, to
sacrifice, each germ great sensation by incessant question and answer destroyed with itself,
as if a crazed gardener every morning the most beautiful Bud breaks and crushed between the
fingers, and there are the other out of pure lust, out of pure mischief, out of pure vanity,
out of sheer ignorance the most precious thing to them offers, estimate too low, just because
it offers them, and can decay, which they should cherish. I am not speaking of what has happened
to me, for us women It is not much better. There are those who mistake, half her life after that,
in lose a great feeling to be allowed, if at all then the wonderful event they are suddenly
full of excuses, full of excuses, afraid to offend the spirit of their caste. You have spent any
determination in the idea and the yearning. This, you see is sensitive, and this type sensitivity
to the idea and the desire to is wasted, so fatal to us. Since then it crashed into the lake
a characterless Marriage, the women to win an asylum, or the state of a general sense to end unrest,
or to avoid conflict, they are not grown, or to certain social privileges, or simply partake
in frivolous lightheadedness; the men to found a home, as they say with feigned poetry, in
fact, to sit down to rest, from their youthful sins, sins of the mind and heart, to recover the
body and soul. If this marriage merely a social convenience, the as in the age of gallantry
certain freedom promotes rather than prohibits, or, as in Antiquity an unequal ratio of tyranny
and slavery does become law, it would still good, but no, it is sacrosanct, and that the company
protects the poor Conscience that it would give the phrase-mongering of the whole institution otherwise.
Large God, what a rat king of mendacity! Everything has to serve to the lack of true to cover up
love, selfless and noble feelings: science and art, public interest and humanity, Christianity
and free-thinking, plenty of nice scenery for a worthless Spectacle! "

Faustina was extremely moving. I felt sorry for her being destroyed touched me. I recognized as the
fate lived in it, and a half-apologetic, half self-mockery Smile, which came immediately to
her lips, could not deceive me. I was silent, my long Silence gave her back some attitude. She
got up and walked with folded arms and down, she continued: "There is a short story by Chekhov,
it deals with an aging Man who has an affair with a married woman. They meet secretly and once,
just as he embraces her welcoming, it is sad, and wonders why it
they loved.

He thinks of the others, he thinks of how many loved him, and that none of them, not one had
been happy with him. Time passed, it is said about, he made acquaintances, closed conditions, separated
again, but never loved it, and it was everything you wanted, have been, but no love. The word is
in me remained liable. Everything you wanted, it had been, but no love. The man was how many,
and the woman loves him, yes, she loves him, but not himself, but the People, those who created
their imagination, and when they noticed their mistake, she loves him yet further. What should
she do? May I tell you something? Something quite ridiculous? I made a small division. I have
divided the women into cats and natures in dog natures, and the men in spoiled and lazy. Cats
are tied to the place Dogs in the Lord, cats are faithless, dogs are loyal, cats have character,
dogs; if you stretch out your finger, the cat is on your hand, but the dog against the target
look, and so on. You know what I mean. Or is the analogy is not plausible? Spoiled and lazy,
it can make the amusing observations. As one of the Career, the other the comfort. The nerd
is ruthless, the lazy enough; the Goody is a fortunate hunter, lazy a secret thief his booty
in safety has brought, for the lazy is always a secret thief. The nerd is conservative in principle,
the lazy of mindlessness, the Goody's revolutionary out of opportunism, the lazy self-interest, one
is a usurer and the other a pimp, and Philistines Are both of them. Yes, it's a beautiful world,
a wonderful time! If you all this could sex in a large coffin lay and bury at once, so I could
tell a wonderful Font grave. "

"And that would be?"

"Died, the widespread creeping disease. Sluggishness of the heart"

"Well, it will not kill you."

"Certainly not, because you can comfortably live on."

"Wrong track, wrong track, Faustina, hopelessly wrong track."

"Of course," murmured Faustina, "wrong track as Theseus.

But there's no out of this maze Escape. "

"Let's do it the bull by the horns, Faustina. What is love?

Who love? Who is capable of love?

Who can presume to speak: love is so and so and not otherwise. Who It may venture to fly out
of the relations of the concept and its unity, its pragmatic Validity,
to proclaim its purest incarnation?

Love is something exceedingly rare, Faustina. Let us make that clear! The love, the real love,
not the people from around the mouth, a phenomenon just as often, just great, just as admirable
as the genius. Their lower or less low manifestations of the ranks of the creatures are so rich and changeable
as the creatures themselves but take an individual out, to put it on your way abruptly to bring to
the imperative of love, so is the about the same as when you sing to him recite the twenty-five
letters of the alphabet and he then command: since you have everything you need now'm creating
a beautiful Seal. It is used to convert jump with the word love as a household appliance.
It has no affection more, this unfortunate word, it is like a prostitute, to everyone's service,
and it seems to me one would have to invent a new, to express what it meant to express. There
is a certain mean literature that is preferably of love, from a love that distinction is going
to get is to have meaning, should be noble-hearted and selfless, and oh, none of this they
have a wax doll she is. If one wanted her, which is quite close, with these products seduced to
believe in the frequency of love, it would be very wrong. Our best Poet, which is an unmistakable
vision of the reality of their specific world belong, even with a highly instructive caution the
love in the area of ​​their inventions. "

"Because they know nothing about it, because they are afraid, just as in life."

"Oh no, Faustina, that would be even cheaper to the end. Because they have recognized their
rarity. Let us keep to the parable with the genius.

The genius does not come into function when in a time is born, which
is already prepared for his work.

It is between the genius and the time it were stored up an electrical voltage. With the love it
is not different. The man was born to love must win for him the highest type and specific vice
versa. It is not enough that in an individual being the ability and possibility of love exist,
but they must pay tribute to a special sway favorable circumstances, that a Related subject.
Who is destined to love, which must also something of the heroic and somewhat of martyrs.
Suppose, then, it develops into two individuals preferred the love. Let's go a little too anatomically
works. If we decompose such love into their components. Since we have primarily the passion
that as a kind of inflammation of the blood and the mind must apply; also: deifying force
through them is the beloved lifted transformed from the crowd of those who are living and in
an idol. Further, sensuous and sensual Desire; arises the sensual passion, the supernatural of
deification; then: unlimited devotion, and their characteristic is that they are also at highest
generosity of Grant can never meet, also: a delicacy of feeling, which is dependent of every dream, from
the slightest idea, and finally, a restlessness that is nevertheless a very specific goal, like
the quivering needle. You make fun about my professorial Sound, I see. I choose it on purpose
because I between enthusiasm and objectivity have no choice, and if I do not want to appear
enthusiastic, I must be dry. "

"I do not mock me. Only drive on. "

"It takes little perspicacity to recognize the fact that the love
of two main sources added, an elementary and an ethical, a sensual
and a moral.

If we consider the more trivial forms of love, it turns out that
they almost always only a single of those properties is established.

We then have the love from passion, or love of sensuality, or the selbstentäußernde love, or
the sentimental love, or the restless unsatisfied love. The variations are countless, of course,
for example, if of a sensual man and the woman harbors a deifying love, or vice versa, or if
the man and the woman unsatisfied restless selbstentäußernd loves, and so on. In most cases,
it be such as to meet even the most rugged contrasts. starts with a variation even conflict, and
where conflicts are, no resistance. An Affair to know no conflicts, it takes place in a perfect
balance. Differentiated all united the harmony and beauty. A distinguishing Santander preference
will never be isolated and never act without counterpart, only the opposite, in an affirmative
sense, brings a virtue to Development: Grace will require, for example, the spirit, the power
of goodness, nobility, bravery. In the great love and only in it, turned the man, and he will
speak about his ideal limits extended. It is use in a state of demonic, or to your expression, of
possession. Everything is visible and all Tangible a single reference, he finds everywhere and
in all, the parable with the object of his love, in music and in Poem, in drawing the clouds,
in the rustling of the trees, in the contemplation of an image of a flame, a stone, bird flight paths
and people have for him the same misty distance, and yet He has everything in it and nothing
except himself, he is open to all sides against the world and yet not be touched by it, he is the kindest
friend, the participant Companion, yet alone with his lover in the universe. What thrilled him
first in her has, say, a particular curve of the forehead, a special way to lift the lids
or shake hands with a tone of voice, a rhythm of the step, a smile, a gesture All this is universal
law, that is, going so once and for all the people, they say, they look, they shake hands,
the whole picture of existence is at a fixed Image of beauty. In the great love that is everything
is positivity, and it is all its infinite and eternal. It can therefore never stop, neither
the one nor to the other side. Only the death of her can put an end to an end, of course, the deepest
meaning after an apparent and needs to be. Fortune or misfortune to come out of the question
for them, their Tragedy lies elsewhere, so it is the only life form that has an inborn tragedy
and this tragedy is not only the possibility but also the need of loss, death decided. Love knows
no other risk and threat as death. From the first moment of love, death stands as a silent
guardian formally visible next to it. Very beautiful is the love in Shakespeare's tragedy
brought to view: everything sought from the beginning to the death of the imperative with which
it occurs, ruled secretly every event. And to refer to the difference in genres, is Romeo, before
the great Entetement occurs, embroiled in a love of ordinary nature. "

"Where are you taking me there, my dear," sighed Faustina. "The promised land is this love for
our kind can not be reached. This would have come under a special star to the world. "

"Yes, like all the great" I replied.

"Do you think, seriously, that it really is such a love?"

I had to smile, because your question had something of the naivete of a child.

"Do you think too," she continued, "that the provision to only on
one side, on the can lie side of the man or the woman, that one part
after another vain languishes and searched the entire earth without
finding him?

"

Faustina looked at me anxiously, they obviously wanted to win a sedative, not noticed I had given
the answer to that question already. "Without a doubt," I replied. "Every conceivable state
of mind and emotion can and will somehow and somewhere to appearance
go, otherwise we would not be able to imagine it.

The case that you fictitious, but with the great love nothing more in common, perhaps not with
love. "

"But?"

"But with the longing.

Longing can be productive, but it can also be infertile. It depends on the person who feeds them.
"

"It seems to me, desire is the most sublime feeling in the human breast."

"If

they are productive, yes."

"What do you call productive desire?"

"I call productive desire that which is capable of a vision into reality, dreamed of giving a present
or desired state. "

"Since you put so, and how this is possible with the desire to advance an act of will?"

"Yes, I do, however, an act of will, perhaps through the mysterious telepathic Powers encouraged
and supported. "

"Well, I see that you are consistent. If you take the unfathomable recourse to hear the arguments.
The unfathomable over there are not at fault and no error anymore. "

"Why talk of debt, Faustina? But you may be right, maybe it really is a kind of guilt if the
feeling does not contribute to the beloved object, but the move is broken by foreign influences.
Never to have beirrbaren instinct, which is already a big deal and a rare thing. Just as our life
is happening today, do not know how each one is woven into a machine-like moving a whole, as
he is forced to add much to what is foreign to his nature, as its smallest misstep him irretrievably
tearing down of the way of his will, as it stands unconcealed, such as chain link, as has
all his deeds and actions and a much more rapid succession as he wishes, as the elemental must
constantly fight in it against the demands of the day and the world, he must give peace and
self-determination, not only to be crushed by the forces, raging around him, so it is naturally
more difficult to obey an inner voice, yes just to hear them at all. What a few generations
have summoned a number of fifty was that today is a result of more
stringent selection and testing only harder to twelve or three or
five are met. Who is to the ideal of love's sake his life on the ?
Set Fortunately, the human heart is always ready to contracts. Would
love suddenly common property of all, it would be in forty years the
earth died out. Who does not love to is chosen, the fate has also
failed strength and patience. He is content, because He must humble
himself. He loves what he does against love, its ruler is the chance. From the deck,
closely muffled in wraps and robes, Rebecca saw her mother and Sir Albert depart for the snow-clad
shore. Her eyes were blinded with tears, for she knew how unhappy her mother was. As she watched
the boat gliding forward amid the floating blocks of ice, she was occasionally alarmed at the
Deeming narrow escapes it made.

The current was very swift, for the tide was running out, and tons of ice were all about the
boat; but a skilful hand was at the helm, and the little boat darted hither and thither, from
point to point, safely through the waters. Once she was quite sure it would be crushed between
two small icebergs; but it glided swiftly out of danger.

The nearer they approached the shore, the denser became the ice pack, and the danger accordingly
increased. At almost every moment, Rebecca uttered an exclamation of fear lest the boat should
be crushed.

Just as she thought all danger was over, and when they were within a short distance of shore,
a heavy cake of ice, which had been sucked under by the current, suddenly burst upward with
such fury as to crush the boat. The shrieks of the unfortunate occupants filled the air for
a single second, then all sank below the cold waves.

Two heads rose to the surface a second later, and those on the ship as well as those on shore
recognized them as Sir Albert St. Croix and Mrs. Price. Holding the screaming woman in one
arm, Sir Albert nobly struck out for shore, and no doubt would have reached it, for he was
a bold swimmer, had not a large cake of ice borne them down to a watery grave.

When they were found, three days later, they were closely locked in each other's arms. Robert
Stevens came from Jamestown, and he and his sister had the body of their mother buried at the
old churchyard in the ruins of Jamestown. Sir Albert was also, by order of his captain, buried
at the same place.

All winter long, Captain Small of the Despair remained in the York River; but at early spring
he came to the James River and, summoning both Robert and Rebecca aboard his vessel, informed
them that his dead master had, by a will, left them a vast fortune in money, jewels and lands,
in both America and England.

"He also gave you the ship Despair," concluded the captain.

"This is very strange." said Robert. "I can scarcely believe it."

Captain Small, however, had the will to prove it.

"Now what will you do with the ship?" the captain asked.

"What do you advise? We know nothing of such matters."

"She would make an excellent merchantman, and I would be willing to rent her of you and give
you one half the profits." While
the drama on the presence of the events of the passions is based is the epic or the novel
one turned back, back Look ahead - all natural, and so is condemned it for its shape to a greater
calm and stateliness, as his playing but is preceded by a viewer, an observer, a sentence ends,
summarizer. While is the drama of a seemingly detached, isolated natural product, the story has
consistently and return on each line to the narrator, and his attitude determines everything. It is
thus only an apparent cold and quiet to the withholding of fire. The Creator of such a work is
all the more important need to hide his own personality, but because he himself is the representative
of the whole world that he produces. When he stops, to remain invisible, our illusion is suffering
harm, and the apparent calm thus contains for him all the effects of his art. We nevertheless intimately
linked with the work, us all with his own eyes, experience their own humorous or tragic frame
of mind to have, it depends on his person and his poet value. His belief and spiritual force
of a hand, and the rest on the other hand, enabling him, light and shadow distribute, create images
to make time perspectives, the two poles are called between which moves his art. Therefore
requires the epic art is a perfect Maturity of the mind.

YOUNG:

It is therefore not to feel oppressed, but tamed sense to spread Heat.

Then the work suffers damage if too much light falls on a single form? Obviously. How it behaves
with the figures? How far they are allowed on the area the narrative lift plastic?

OLD MAN:

It depends on substance and tone of the whole. Let us once the course of several works epic Prose
even compare to that fact: Herodotus' histories, the Don Quixote, the Wilhelm Master and Tolstoy's
War and Peace.

Herodotus has a natural, personal naivety that the age and a young, rising Culture meet. He
has no role models, yet he needs them. He is not ready, a to shape an art form. He avoids
Jewellery words. He keeps away from all the abstractions. "He says." His tone is that of a man
who is rich in experience and knowledge among Its as simple as sitting and really are of particular
customer. However, shows his Work is a solid unity of style and not only externally but also internally:
The actions the people are under the sway of Nemesis. steeped in this belief receives its creation
is not only moral value but also artistic power.

Cervantes, of course, already based on traditions. But he destroyed by themselves their served.
The moral narrative and the action a plan and submit to outside mental an idea under. By drawing
against the pathetic hero of Catholicism to the field, finds it covers those high form of representation
which we call humor and what his characters far more contours are more meaningful than they
seem to have in the reality of their existence. Cervantes is also (in the mundane sense) naive narrator,
but has at its naivete of art appreciation already significant share. It is clear that this
is not the rapporteur of true Events. With the creation of a fantasy world, the unabashed glee
at the event and its reproduction at an end. The narrator has to associate the Fabulist, and
Technical questions arise as if by themselves where everything is already art: the characters
and its design, the plan fully girded threads of the plot, dialogue, and his motor Importance. But
by some miraculous instinct all this has again received the color of nature, the deceptive guise of
truth.

Goethe's novel is primarily the manifesto of a great personality. When the Spanish Dense images
unfurled behind which he disappeared without a word, the German remains before the Are created and
takes it through its essence, by his gesture, accompanied by his Words until the right light and
the right application. His presentation is cool, and consider philosophical terms, and one never
forgets about the figures, the magician, who move able to share.

Cervantes is great by Don Quixote; Wilhelm Meister is great by Goethe.

In the poetry of the Russian poet finite substance and presentation in an indissoluble Compound
entered. The Creator himself is here at a little unreal, like the power of nature, which instructs
a power his bed. This novel is Homeric character. The people in it are so strong individually and
also driven so much by the fate of their temperament, that one has the illusion that they must,
even in isolation of social environment and action, but to those Experiences and experiences
go, which they in poetry by the will of the poet . Come Moral description, national particularity,
human significance, artistic Peace, simplicity and size, all combine
to form the clearest effect.

The dialogue has not motor purposes, not even philosophical, or tendentious,
but merely characterizing.

YOUNG:

"Substance and presentation have entered into an indissoluble union," I would say thou rather
say: Fabric and artists. But what is the substance? When the substance is "necessary to live
in? When he gets the repudiation of one of nature itself created? You probably have the one
to do it, the second invention, the third company in history. This needs a veritable fable that
weaves out its structure as from a dream that the movement and mood
of life and yet the gatheredness the seal.

The important thing is therefore not the nature of the substance
itself, but the intensity of the vision he created and the not based
on an image needs, but often, the mist of the primeval world the same
ball, fire and may have hidden in the vegetation.

OLD MAN:

Without doubt. The power of vision in the poet determines the strength of the work, its duration
and Unforgettable, but his harmony. Everything else has any more things with inspiratory to
do, but is subject to the laws of development. Where the vision leaves off, the mental work,
the realm of taste, of discernment, choice. This is also the limit between the poet and writer.
The poet and his agents to behave each other as the tree to its leaves, the materials of the
writer but the same arbitrarily selected, humble or luxurious furniture
of a room.

There is any lack the downside of his preference, even here, any
preference to a single defect .

Returns indicate There is a living organism, whether strong or sickly,
here is a Machinery, or completely botched in its way.

YOUNG:

So we must actually experience the poet's materials, the writer to invent.

OLD MAN:

This can not be kept apart. Since we must first determine what it means to live. It would be
considered quite poor, if you wanted to see an external action would then It would be bad for
those appointed to the chance or social status or personal characteristic from the large gear
keeps. That would be: only the person who committed a murder, can reveal the soul of a murderer, and
the woman as a world in itself would be a poet locked forever thing. I do not deny that a certain amount
of general Life experience is necessary, but the one who does not inwardly the suffering of
the world and its Creatures lived, which it is little use if he fills his days with adventures,
if him this way, the strangest and most profound aspects of human
nature to be revealed.

That's just the special nature of the poet, that in it were, the
experience of all others accumulate and reach a high consciousness,
it is as if God him the hints and key words were, from which he summarized
for the tissue to a second scarcest of consistency World forms.

It is He who dwells in the center of things, he is the living conscience of nations is, he does not
live in the present, no, it is also all the past Present. And now the stuff.

YOUNG:

I believe that it is irrelevant whether the story of a tailor, he
or world conqueror selected.

And the environment can only be a means to develop characters and
stories to motivate.

OLD MAN:

Very true.

YOUNG:

And yet we have spoken of a need for existence of the substance.

OLD MAN:

It has been said often enough that the poet out of an invincible inner drive make it. Often in conflict with
the external circumstances, often, almost always at war with itself themselves why it is a hackneyed
phrase, to speak of the happiness of creation. There is only one despair of creation and a very
brief rush of happiness Created having. And then the poet must learn to hate his work, that he
recognized his infirmity able, and the more he will hate his work, the deeper he will love
the arts. It is clear that what wins in such resistors existence and form, inner life opportunity
and must have necessity, at least for the Creator. The question is whether and to what Extent
the work to other people talk, how many lives it circles its existence affect how much other
beings, it is also necessary. It now depends on his material from. I want to say a substance
is the greater and more generally valid, the more myth within himself, that is, the deeper it in
the mysterious, unconscious, religious, contemporary fantasy a people
and thus the root of the human race.

The poet is indeed the mouth of the silent ones.

The larger is a poet, the more silent one speak of him.

Not he chooses his material, but the material it chooses.

He hits him, like lightning, he shrugs at him. Therefore, you can no more talk of inventing
of experience as a substance, in the highest sense namely. Poets who tell their stories, we realize,
are always in danger, these experiences to appreciate, if not a great typical fate behind
them. The Vision is all. You can now have a thousand times to glorify the subject treated so
and to increase that he is the unprecedented event. The more you through your tight little and in
any case modest fate up into space, human, mythical hinausspürst
and live, the less you need to "actually do," the more free space
for the art you win.

YOUNG:

Earlier esthetician what you call the myth have called idea.

OLD MAN:

Call it what you want.

There is always talk of it, that art has no trends, no usefulness
would pursue goals.

But shall be in a higher sense but with every other work of art proved
to be something, if it is not to succumb to the curse of playfulness.

Certainly must It will be produced for its own sake. But it must, as a living creature, not exist
for its own sake. Furthermore, we can hardly get into our discussion.
Here already is the border of dream and reverie.

Five years later

OLD MAN:

That brings us together by chance on a trip!

YOUNG:

You may think you hast me during all this time, studiously avoided.

OLD MAN:

How could I dare me! You have become a famous man, I fall more and more back into the darkness.

YOUNG:

I
hope I have this so-called glory not your good opinion stolen.

OLD MAN:

That would be the case only when he seduced up to self-sufficiency.

Such people are as Corpses in the middle of their works, and their works are sick, children born,
destined to early death.

YOUNG:

Above all, there are two kinds of glory. One goes from the temporal, contingent, Momentary,
from threatening our actions, and may the real as the false Work the same way to be part and has little
to do with the other fame, by our whole being is due to ties in the context of our works. That's
like the brief success of wits or good Plauderers in a social circle,
as this the deep, silent, slow work of a priest or a philanthropist,
is that other produced results and often to our own surprise, that
radiates from our Interior, from our personality and can occur in
any case only after the death or the termination of our life's work,
to the applause of those have any newspaper writer be concerned, that
no other court has its own as the heart.

OLD MAN:

I am glad that you think so. But have you ever lived in this sense,
sealed? You mean I had been absent from you in all the years with
intention, your feelings are deceiving you not quite. Frankly, I must
confess that your success has worried me. He was too fast, too loudly,
I went out too little about the matter and could not get enough on
the arts appointed. I wanted to wait and I waited for your next book.
I was disappointed. Not as if you were you is untrue, but you were
uneasy in yourself The Vision your imagination was not pure, but you
saw it were, the curious faces your readers, your friends. You tried
to satisfy them and not yourself

YOUNG:

True, true. But I've paid.
I've paid, as I learned to despise. I've paid, by my soul cried out
for myself ever more painfully. Do you know this mysterious State
of restless each stay makes every bitter thought? It's like after
wanted to stay home and become timid horses stormed to a remote desert
countries. What a mysterious thing it but that lives inside the chest.
It has a voice the craziest market noise drowned out, and you are
then in solitude, it is silent unexpectedly, as if to take revenge
for the fact that you did not obey him earlier. Always attentive,
more silent you have to be to lose the vote, his wife and children
and money Well you must hold and if they do not want to.

OLD MAN:

So
much insight in so many insane!

YOUNG:

What better way to gain insight
without having to have been wrong? Do you remember our conversation
from then on the nature and laws of the narrative?

SECOND CHARTER of Carolina; boundary extended
  to 29° lat.,--June 30.

CLARENDON COLONY, near Wilmington, N. C., permanently
  settled.

1670. DETROIT, MICH., settled by the French. CARTERET COLONY settled on Ashley River, near
Charleston, S. C.

1671. MARQUETTE established the Mission of St. Ignatius,
  at Michilimackinac.

1673. VIRGINIA granted to Culpepper and Islington. MARQUETTE AND JOLIETTE explored the Mississippi
River to the Arkansas.

1674. MARQUETTE founded a Missionary Station at Chicago, 111.

1675. MARQUETTE founded a mission at Kaskaskia, Ill. KING PHILIP'S WAR in New England began.

1676. BACON'S REBELLION against Berkeley in Virginia,
  one hundred years before independence.
QUINQUEPARTITE DEED formed in East and West Jersey--west to the Quakers
  and east to Carteret. Dividing line from Little Egg Harbor to lat.
  41° 41' on the northernmost branch of the Delaware River.

