He was on the way out to see his mother-in-law, but he thought that nothing now could be gained
by going to Chesterton. It was not impossible that Crinkett might have been there. If so the
man would have told something of his story; and his wife's mother was the last person in the
world whom, under such circumstances, he could hope to satisfy. He must tell no lie to any
one; he must at least conceal nothing of the things as they occurred now. He must not allow
it to be first told by Crinkett that they two had seen each other in the Gardens. But he could
not declare this to Mrs. Bolton. For the present, the less he saw of Mrs. Bolton the better.
She would come to the christening to-morrow,--unless indeed Crinkett had already told enough
to induce her to change her mind,--but after that any intimacy with the house at Chesterton
had better be postponed till this had all been settled.

But how much would have to be endured before that! Robert Bolton had almost threatened to take
his wife away from him. No one could take his wife away from him,--unless, indeed, the law
were to say that she was not his wife. But how would it be with him if she herself, under the
influence of her family, were to wish to leave him! The law no doubt would give him the custody
of his own wife, till the law had said that she was not his wife. But could he keep her if
she asked him to let her go? And should she be made to doubt,--should her mind be so troubled
as it would be should she once be taught to think it possible that she had been betrayed,--would
she not then want to go from him? Would it not be probable that she would doubt when she should
be told that this woman had been called by her husband's name in Australia, and when he should
be unable to deny that he had admitted, or at least had not contradicted, the appellation?

On a sudden, when he turned away from the street leading to Chesterton as he came out of the
College, he resolved that he would at once go back to Robert Bolton. The man was offensive,
suspicious and self-willed; but, nevertheless, his good services, if they could be secured,
would be all-important. For his wife's sake, as Caldigate said to himself,--for his wife's
sake he must bear much. 'I have come to tell you something that has occurred since I was here
just now,' said Caldigate, meeting his brother-in-law at the door of the office. 'Would you
mind coming back?'

'I am rather in a hurry.'

'It is of importance, and you had better hear it,' said Caldigate, leading the way imperiously
to the inner room. 'It is for your sister's sake. That man Crinkett is in Cambridge.'

'In Cambridge?'

'I saw him just now.'

'And spoke to him?' the attorney asked.

'No. I passed him; and I do not know even whether he recognised me. But he is here, in Cambridge.'

'And the woman?'

'I have told you all that I know. He has not come here for nothing.'

'Probably not,' said the attorney, with a scornful smile. 'You will hear of him before long.'

'Of course I shall. I have come to you now to ask a question. I must put my case at once into
a lawyer's hands. Crinkett, no doubt, will commit perjury and I must undergo the annoyance
and expense of proving him to be a perjurer. She probably is here also, and will be ready to
commit perjury. Of course I must have a lawyer. Will you act for me?'

'I will act for my sister.'

'Your sister and I are one; and I am obliged, therefore, to ask again whether you will act
for me? Of course I should prefer it. Though you are, I think, hard to me in this matter, I
can trust you implicitly. It will be infinitely better for Hester that it should be so. But
I must have some lawyer.'

'And so must she.'

'Hers and mine must be the same. As to that I will not admit any question. Can you undertake
to fight this matter on my behalf,--and on hers? If you feel absolutely hostile to me you had
better decline. For myself, I cannot understand why there should be such hostility.'

Caldigate had so far conquered his own feelings of abasement as to be able to say this with
a determined face, looking straight into the attorney's eyes, at any rate without sign of fear.

'It wants thinking about,' said Robert Bolton.

'To-morrow the baby is to be christened, and for Hester's sake I will endeavour to put this
matter aside;--but on Wednesday I must know.'

'On Wednesday morning I will answer your question. But what if this man comes to me in the
meantime?'

'Listen to him or speak to him, just as seems good to you. You know everything that there is
to tell, and may therefore know whether he lies or speaks the truth.'

Then Caldigate went to the inn, got his horse, and rode back to Folking.

Chapter XXVII

The Christening

The next day was the day of the christening. Caldigate, on his return home from Cambridge,
had felt himself doomed to silence. He could not now at this moment tell his wife that the
man had come,--the man who would doubtless work her such terrible misery. She was very strong.
She had gone through the whole little event of her baby's birth quite as well as could be expected,
and had been just what all her friends might have wished her to be. But that this blow had
fallen upon her,--but that these ill news had wounded her,--she would now have been triumphant.
Her mother was at last coming to her. Her husband was all that a husband should be. Her baby
was, to her thinking, sweeter, brighter, more satisfactory than any other baby ever had been.
But the first tidings had been told to her. She had seen the letter signed 'Euphemia Caldigate';
and of course she was ill at ease. Knowing how vexatious the matter was to her husband, she
had spoken of it but seldom,--having asked but a question now and again when the matter pressed
itself too severely on her mind. He understood it all, both her reticence and her sufferings.
Her sufferings must of course be increased. She must know before long that Crinkett, and probably
the woman also, were in her neighbourhood. But he could not tell her now when she was preparing
her baby for his ceremony in the church.

The bells were rung, and the baby was prepared, and Mrs. Bolton came out to Folking according
to her promise. Though Robert was not there, many of the Boltons were present, as was also
Uncle Babington. He had come over on the preceding evening, making on this occasion his first
journey to Folking since his wife's sister had died; and the old squire was there in very good
humour, though he excused himself from going to the church by explaining that as he had no
duty to perform he would only be in the way amongst them all. Daniel and Mrs. Bolton had also
been at Folking that night, and had then for the first time been brought into contact with
the Babington grandeur. The party had been almost gay, the old squire having taken some delight
in what he thought to be the absurdities of his brother-in-law. Mr. Babington himself was a
man who was joyous on most occasions and always gay on such an occasion as this. He had praised
the mother, and praised the baby, and praised the house of Folking generally, graciously declaring
that his wife looked forward to the pleasure of making acquaintance with her new niece, till
old Mr. Caldigate had been delighted with these manifestations of condescension. 'Folking is
a poor place,' said he, 'but Babington is really a country-house.'

'Yes,' replied the other squire, much gratified, 'Babington is what you may call really a good
country-house.'

You had to laugh very hard at him before you could offend Uncle Babington. In all this John
Caldigate was obliged to assist, knowing all the time, feeling all the time, that Crinkett
was in Cambridge; and through all this the young mother had to appear happy, knowing the existence
of that letter signed 'Euphemia Caldigate,'--feeling it at every moment. And they both acted
their parts well. Caldigate himself,--though when he was alone the thought of what was coming
would almost crush him,--could always bear himself bravely when others were present.

On the morning before they went to church, when the bells were ringing, old Mr. Bolton came
in a carriage with his wife from Cambridge. She, of course, condescended to give her hand to
her son-in-law but she did it with a look which was full of bitterness. She did not probably
intend to be specially bitter, but bitterness of expression was common to her. She was taken,
however, at once up to the baby, and then in the presence of her daughter and grandchild it
may be presumed that she relaxed a little. At any rate, her presence in the house made her
daughter happy for the time.

Then they all went to the church, except the squire, who, as he himself pleaded, had no duty
to perform there. Mrs. Bolton, as she was taken through the hall, saw him and recognised him,
but would not condescend even to bow her head to him, though she knew how intimate he had been
with her husband. She still felt,--though she had yielded for this day, this day which was
to make her grandchild a Christian,--that there must be, and should be, a severance between
people such as the Boltons and people such as the Caldigates.

As the service went on, and as the water was sprinkled, and as the prayers were said, Caldigate
felt thankful that so much had been allowed to be done before the great trouble had disclosed
itself. The doubt whether even the ceremony could be performed before the clap of thunder had
been heard through all Cambridge had been in itself a distinct sorrow to him. Had Crinkett
showed himself at Chesterton, neither Mrs. Bolton nor Daniel Bolton would have been standing
then at the font. Had Crinkett been heard of at Babington, Uncle Babington would not now have
been at Folking. All this was passing through his mind as he was standing by the font. When
the ceremony of making the young Daniel Humphrey Caldigate a Christian was all but completed,
he fancied that he saw old Mr. Bolton's eyes fixed on something in the church, and he turned
his head suddenly, with no special purpose, but simply looking, as one is apt to look, when
another looks. There he saw, on a seat divided from himself by the breadth of the little nave,
Thomas Crinkett sitting with another man.

There was not a shadow of a doubt on his mind as to the identity of the Australian--nor as
to that of Crinkett's companion. At the moment he did not remember the man's name, but he knew
him as a miner with whom he had been familiar at Ahalala, and who had been in partnership both
with himself and Crinkett at Nobble,--as one who had, alas! been in his society when Euphemia
Smith had been there also. At that instant he remembered the fact that the man had called Euphemia
Smith Mrs. Caldigate in his presence, and that he had let the name pass without remonstrance.
The memory of that moment flashed across him now as he quickly turned back his face towards
his child who was still uttering his little wail in the arms of the clergyman.

