19. How, by praying to the Virgin, a robber-knight was delivered from the clutches of the devil.

The altar is flanked on the north by a memorial of Bishop Brownlow North, representing him
kneeling in adoration. The vault above, though not so elaborate as that of Langton's chapel
on the right hand, is a fine example of lierne work, and the shafts are noticeable for their
capitals and bases. Among the devices are T and the syllable HUN, followed by the figure of
a tun; and T and the syllable SILK, followed by the figure of a horse; signifying Thomas Hunton
and Thomas Silkstede respectively.

The southern window of the Lady Chapel has recently been filled with a memorial window to the
late Bishop Thorold, whose tomb lies in the cathedral precincts just below the new window.
In pre-Reformation times this window, like those on the north and east, was glazed with fine
painted glass, of which a few fragments still remain in the tracery. The remaining portions
of the old work have been worked in with the new by Mr C.E. Kempe, the designer and executor.
The memorial glass presents scenes in the life of Christ, while above appear S. Birinus, Pope
Honorius, S. Swithun, S. Alphege, and other saints. The dedication ceremony took place on August
7, 1897, two years after the burial of Bishop Thorold at Winchester.

Of the two chapels which flank the Lady Chapel, that to the north is the #Chapel of the Guardian
Angels#, once the chantry of Bishop Adam de Orlton, of whom no memorial here exists, though
he is buried in the chapel. This compartment is sometimes called the Portland chapel, owing
to the fact that it contains on the south side the tomb of Richard Weston, Earl of Portland,
who was treasurer to Charles I. A recumbent bronze statue by Le Sueur adorns the tomb, while
in the wall above are four tabernacles, three of which contain mutilated busts, probably representing
members of his family. A mural monument of Bishop Peter Mews, who is also interred here, is
marked by a crozier and mitre. On the north side, too, there is in the wall an aumbry with
a shelf, having a curious square head within a trefoil. The early vaulting of this chapel has,
between the ribs, figures of seraphim, which are very fresh in colour.

The corresponding chapel to the south is #Bishop Langton's Chantry#, though the work is partly
De Lucy's, including the walls and the early vaulting shafts. The defaced front-screen and
the oak-panelling all round are very rich examples of late Gothic, and the stone vaulting has
been compared in point of elaboration with that in the chapel of Henry VII. at Westminster.
On the groining, at the junction of the ribs, is carved Bishop Langton's rebus, consisting
of the musical sign for a "long" upon a tun, while his motto Laus tibi Christe also occurs.
It is supposed that the magnificent carved vine on the upper part of the oak-panelling which
runs round the chapel originally formed the rebus of Langton's see, the tun from which it sprang
being now lost. The woodwork, which is certainly one of the most striking things in the cathedral,
is unfortunately mutilated, as is also part of the heraldic work on the entrance door. At the
east end of the chapel above the former altar there is a row of seven tabernacles, under which
is a cornice which was originally gilt and painted. The statues which once occupied the tabernacles
are no longer extant. The central tomb here is that of Bishop Langton himself. Queen Mary's
chair now stands in this chapel; it is in a wonderful state of preservation for its age, and
the woodwork is still sound.

The entrance to the #Crypts# is in the north transept, as was noted above. They are three in
number, the main division stretching from the eastern tower-piers to the first piers of the
retro-choir. It consists of a central room divided by a row of five columns in the middle,
with an apsidal eastern termination, and is flanked by two aisles with square eastern ends.
The well here is said to be considerably older than the building above it. From this opens
out a narrower crypt, which also has five columns down the centre, while its apse reaches to
the eastern end of the retro-choir. These crypts cannot, as some have supposed (and the tradition
still survives), form part of the old Saxon church, since it has been fairly established that
the site of this was not that of the present building. The plan of the chambers is in perfect
accord, as Willis says, with that of Norman churches in general. The main crypt shows by its
circular apse what was the form of the east end in the old Norman church. The actual work is
strikingly like that of the transepts, the peculiar thin square abacus, combined with a round
capital, being a noteworthy point in both these portions of the building. The third crypt,
which is narrow like the second, is rectangular in shape, and its vaulting rests on columns.
It is Early English in architecture, and is contemporary with De Lucy's work in the upper part
of the church. In 1886 the crypts were to a great extent cleared out to their original level,
a vast quantity of rubbish being removed. Many fragments of early work still remain, though
in too mutilated a form to indicate where they originally stood.

The #stained glass# at Winchester can, perhaps, best be treated separately from the windows
which it occupies. Most of the information may be found summed up in a paper addressed to the
Archæological Association in September 1845, by Mr C. Winston. Two circles of Early Decorated
glass are to be seen in the west window, but they are merely composed of coloured pieces arranged
in geometrical patterns. The general arrangement of the great window is, as has been already
said, kaleidoscopic, the fragments which compose it being too scattered to admit of being put
together again in their original form. The effect, however, is striking, particularly at some
distance from the west end. There are remains of the original glass in the west windows of
the aisles and in the first window from the west in the south aisle, but the Edingdon windows
in the north aisle have lost their glass. The glass in the above windows consists of the heads
of canopies, though in the west window some of the original figures are still to be seen. This
is the earliest Perpendicular glass in the cathedral, and may date from Edingdon's time. Next
in date is the glass in the other windows of the nave aisles and clerestory windows, a little
later than that in the west window, and of the same character as that at New College, Oxford,
in the north, south, and west windows. Of this glass, apparently four figures and part of their
canopies have been removed to the first window from the east in the choir clerestory. The heads
of the three westerly windows, to the north of the choir clerestory, showing canopy-work and
cherubim, come next in date, with eight canopied figures in the upper tier of the two easterly
windows on the south of this clerestory. The latter seem to have come originally from some
other window, being too short for their present situation. Their date may be about the end
of the reign of Henry VI. The east window of the choir may be a little earlier than 1525, and
has introduced in it Bishop Fox's arms and motto, Est deo gracia. This window has been much
disturbed, the top central light being filled with glass of Wykeham's period, while little
of Fox's glass seems to be in its original position. To Fox also may be attributed part of
the aisle windows north and south of the choir, and some canopies in the side windows of the
choir clerestory. Some late glass, much mutilated, may be seen in the east window of the Lady
Chapel. Warner says of the two large windows, that "the great east window is remarkable for
the beauty of its painted glass, which contains the portraits of saints, and of some bishops
of this see; it is whole and entire, the west window is magnificent, but much inferior to this."

CHAPTER IV

HISTORY OF THE SEE

The West Saxon kingdom, of which S. Birinus became the first bishop, included the counties
of Surrey, Berkshire, Sussex, Hampshire, Dorset, Devon, and Somerset. When Birinus was consecrated
by the Bishop of Milan, he was not assigned any exact territorial jurisdiction, as was only
natural, seeing that he was a missionary to a little-known land. He met, however, with a rapid
success, and in 635 performed the baptism of Cynegils, king of the West Saxons, on the day
of his marriage to the daughter of the Northumbrian king. The town of Dorchester on the borders
of Mercia was immediately assigned to Birinus as a bishop's seat. But when Aegelberht had succeeded
him, the next king, Cenwalh, made a division of the kingdom into two distinct dioceses of Dorchester
and Winchester, the new creation being assigned in 661 to Wina; who, however, succeeded to
the whole of the original diocese, as Aegelberht appears to have left England in disgust. Eleutherius,
Wina's successor, continued to hold the still united offices at Dorchester, and it was not
until Hedda became bishop, about 679 A.D., that Winchester was really made the seat of a diocese.
Even Hedda continued to rule all from Winchester, and not before his death was a permanent
division of sees carried out. Winchester retained Surrey, Sussex, and the Southampton district;
while the other counties were assigned to Sherborne--Dorchester, which belonged more properly
to Mercia, having been taken away, as there was no longer the same need of an inland centre
to the see, with four bishops now in Mercia. Sussex was also taken from the Winchester diocese
during the episcopacy of Daniel, Hedda's successor, and by way of compensation he was only
able to add the Isle of Wight, hitherto unattached to any see. When the West Saxon kingdom
became, in the ninth century, practically the kingdom of England, Winchester, of course, assumed
a very important position. S. Swithun, who was chosen as bishop in 852, had great influence
with King Ethelwulf, and his cathedral correspondingly became an object of veneration. The
see suffered, however, from the Danish raids which occurred during the next two reigns; but
with Bishop Athelwold its prestige was quite restored. To him is due the establishment of a
Benedictine monastery at Winchester, the previous convent having been one of secular (and non-celibate)
canons. With the supremacy of the Danes, we find Cnut both elected king and subsequently buried
at Winchester. Edward the Confessor, moreover, was crowned in the cathedral on Easter Day,
1043, so that Winchester maintained its position well up to this date. Further invasions of
the Northmen then very much wasted the south coast, and gradually Winchester began to yield
its pride of place to Westminster.

