"There, there," admonished Jack, "that'll be about all of that. You fellows are about even
now. The smallest sort of an appetite may prove to be an inconvenience before we get out of
Alaska."

"I want to say, Colonel," said Rand, rising and facing the army officer at "attention," "that
I think I speak for the whole patrol when I promise in their names the most earnest fidelity
and strict attention to rules and regulations until our mission up here is finished."

"Yes, yes," echoed the Scouts, springing to their feet and saluting the Colonel, who also rose
and returned it with a smile of acknowledgment. At the same moment Swiftwater Jim entered the
saloon.

"Young men, your commander," said Colonel Snow, waving a hand toward the miner. With one accord
the patrol turned toward the grizzled Alaskan and saluted. Jim turned red with pleasure and
waved a knotted hand in recognition.

"Glad to see ye, boys, but salutin' won't be necessary ev'ry time we meet. I used ter be satisfied
on shipboard if a man jumped about a foot high every time I spoke real serious, but I guess
we can get through this job without much loud bossin'. I simply want ter sejest that I ain't
very good at argying, so I hope we shan't have much of that."

One by one, the boys shook hands with the miner in token of fealty, and from that time until
the steamer reached Skagway spent several hours a day with him in what he called his "first
class in gettin' on the job." The most of this work included thorough instruction in the geography
of Southeastern Alaska and Southern Yukon territory, the Colonel's land being located in the
Canadian dominions. Especially was their attention drawn to numerous waterways as shown on
the maps, which must form the highways for all transportation during the summer time, and knowledge
of whose location, size and tributaries formed a man's best safeguard in this almost pathless
wilderness.

A visit was paid to the hold, this time with the captain's permission, to enable Swiftwater
to estimate the amount of freight that was to be handled and the best way of distributing it
among the transports. The boys went with him to learn something of their new duties in this
connection.

"I move," said Rand, "that that earnest young sleuth, Mr. Jack Blake, be appointed guide to
this expedition to the dark and creepy hold. He knows where everything is, for he has fallen
over it all, I hear."

"He might meet Monkey Rae," said Dick with a mock shudder, "then think of the carnage."

Dublin and the Raes, fearing Captain Huxley's possible report to the authorities at Skagway,
had "jumped the ship" as the commander of the "Queen" expressed it at Ketchikan, the first
port of call in Alaska, and Dick's fears were therefore groundless, but Jack, who had learned
the lesson of taking a joke goodnaturedly grinned feebly, and readily dived into the hatchway
and down the ladder. The electric lights had been turned on, and the hitherto Egyptian darkness
of the hold had vanished. They readily found their consignment, and the miner went over it
carefully.

"What ye got here?" he asked, kicking the heavy case before referred to, which the boys had
brought along on their own initiative. "Pianny? Don't believe we need any pianny, up Yukon
way. There's plenty piannys in Alaska, now, but I remember the first one that was brought in.
It's up in Dawson yet. It was brought in on the first rush in '98. Cost four hundred dollars
in the States and two thousand dollars to haul up from Skagway. The last time I heard it, it
was being mauled by a feenominon, who had a patent pianny-playin' wooden arm on one side, and
it sounded like a day's work in a boiler factory at one end and a bad smash in a glass pantry
at the other. I heard some o' them educated Cheechakos talkin' about art, but I didn't care
for it much."

