(20:26) Such a course can be taken without detriment to justice and dutifulness, nay, it is
the one which a just and dutiful man would adopt. (30) But I return to my proposition. (32)
Evidently those which by their very nature nullify the compact by which the right of free action
was ceded. (36) This question we have discussed in Chapter XV., and shown that reason should
nevertheless remain unshackled. (39) He who seeks to regulate everything by law, is more likely
to arouse vices than to reform them. (40) It is best to grant what cannot be abolished, even
though it be in itself harmful. (42) How much more then should free thought be granted, seeing
that it is in itself a virtue and that it cannot be crushed!

(20:49) To these considerations may be added what we said in Chapter XVIII. in treating of
the history of the Hebrews. (54) What greater misfortune for a state can be conceived then
that honourable men should be sent like criminals into exile, because they hold diverse opinions
which they cannot disguise? (58) The only lesson we can draw from such scenes is to flatter
the persecutor, or else to imitate the victim. (63) Such an one is not very, far to seek.

(20:70) I have thus shown:-

(71) I. That it is impossible to deprive men of the liberty of saying what they think.

(74) IV. That every man may enjoy it without injury to his allegiance.

(75) V. That laws dealing with speculative problems are entirely useless. (80) Everyone must
see that this is not a state of affairs conducive to public welfare.

(20:82) I have thus fulfilled the task I set myself in this treatise. [20:5] (83) It remains
only to call attention to the fact that I have written nothing which I do not most willingly
submit to the examination and approval of my country's rulers; and that I am willing to retract
anything which they shall decide to be repugnant to the laws, or prejudicial to the public good.

End of Part 4 of 4.

AUTHOR'S ENDNOTES TO THE THEOLOGICO-POLITICAL TREATISE

CHAPTER XVI.

[Endnote 26]. (1) "No one can honestly promise to forego the right which he has over all things."

[Endnote 27]. (1) "Every member of it may, if he will, be free." (2) Whatever be the social
state a man finds; himself in, he may be free. (3) For certainly a man is free, in so far as
he is led by reason.

[Endnote 28]. (1) "No one knows by nature that he owes any obedience to God." (5) Obedience
has regard to the will of a ruler, not to necessity and truth. [Endnote 29]. (1) "If men could
lose their natural rights so as to be absolutely unable for the future to oppose the will of
the sovereign" (2) Two common soldiers undertook to change the Roman dominion, and did change
it. (Tacitus, Hist. i:7.)

[Endnote 30]. (1) See Numbers xi. 28. In this passage it is written that two men prophesied
in the camp, and that Joshua wished to punish them. (2) This he would not have done, if it
had been lawful for anyone to deliver the Divine oracles to the people without the consent
of Moses. (3) But Moses thought good to pardon the two men, and rebuked Joshua for exhorting
him to use his royal prerogative, at a time when he was so weary of reigning, that he preferred
death to holding undivided sway (Numb. xi:14). (4) For he made answer to Joshua, "Enviest thou
for my sake? (5) Would God that all the Lord's people were prophets, and that the Lord would
put His spirit upon them." (6) That is to say, would God that the right of taking counsel of
God were general, and the power were in the hands of the people. (7) Thus Joshua was not mistaken
as to the right, but only as to the time for using it, for which he was rebuked by Moses, in
the same way as Abishai was rebuked by David for counselling that Shimei, who had undoubtedly
been guilty of treason, should be put to death. (8) See 2 Sam. xix:22, 23.

