EDITOR'S PREFATORY NOTE

It would ill become any writer to adopt an apologetic tone in introducing the work of another
pen than his own, and indeed I have no thought of apologia where Nicholas Freydon's writing
is concerned. On the contrary, it is out of respect for my friend's quality as a writer that
I am moved to a word of explanation here. It is this: there are circumstances, sufficiently
indicated I think in the text of the book and my own footnote thereto, which tended to prevent
my performance of those offices for my friend's work which are usually expected of one who
is said to edit. It would be more fitting, I suppose, if a phrase were borrowed from the theatrical
world, and this record of a man's life were said to be 'presented' rather than 'edited,' by
me. I am advised to accept the editorial title in this connection, but it is the truth that
the book has not been edited at all, in the ordinary acceptance of the term. A few purely verbal
emendations have been made in it, but Nicholas Freydon's last piece of writing has never been
revised, nor even arranged in deference to accepted canons of book-making. It is given here
as it left the author's pen, designed, not for your eye or mine, but for that of its writer,
to be weighed and considered by him. But that weighing and consideration it has not received.

So much I feel it incumbent upon me to say, as the avowed sponsor for the book, in order that
praise and blame may be rightly apportioned. Touching the inherent value of this document,
nothing whatever is due to me. Any criticism of its arrangement, or lack of arrangement, to
be just, should be levelled at myself alone.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTORY

CHILDHOOD--ENGLAND

BOYHOOD--AUSTRALIA

YOUTH--AUSTRALIA

MANHOOD--ENGLAND: FIRST PERIOD

MANHOOD--ENGLAND: SECOND PERIOD

THE LAST STAGE

EDITOR'S NOTE

THE RECORD OF NICHOLAS FREYDON

INTRODUCTORY

Back there in London--how many leagues and aeons distant!--I threw down my pen and fled here
to the ends of the earth, in pursuit of rest and self-comprehending peace of mind. Here I now
take up the pen again and return in thought to London: that vast cockpit; still in pursuit
of rest and self-comprehending peace of mind.

That seems wasteful and not very hopeful. But, to be honest--and if this final piece of pen-work
be not honest to its core, it certainly will prove the very acme of futility--I must add the
expression of opinion that most of the important actions of my life till now have had the self-same
goal in view: peace of mind. The surprising thing is that, right up to this present, every
one of my efforts has been backed by a substantial if varying amount of solid conviction; of
belief that that particular action would bring the long-sought reward. I suppose I thought
this in coming here, in fleeing from London. Nay, I know I did.

The latest, and I suppose the last, illusion bids me believe that if, using the literary habit
of a lifetime, I can set down in ordered sequence the salient facts and events of that restless,
struggling pilgrimage I call my life, there is a likelihood that, seeing the entire fabric
in one piece, I may be able truly to understand it, and, understanding it, to rest content
before it ends. The ironical habit makes me call it an illusion. In strict truth I listen to
the call with some confidence; not, to be sure, with the flaming ardour which in bygone years
has set me leaping into action in answer to such a call; yet with real hope.

It is none so easy a task, this exact charting out of so complex a matter as a man's life.
And it may be that long practice of the writer's art but serves to heighten its difficulties.
For example, since writing the sentence ending on that word 'hope,' I have covered two whole
pages with writing which has now been converted into ashes among the logs upon my hearth. For
the covering of those pages two volumes had been fingered and referred to, if you please, and
my faulty memory drawn upon for yet a third quotation. So much for the habit of literary allusiveness,
engrained into one by years of book-making, and yet more surely, I suspect, by labour for hire
on the newspaper press.

But, though I have detected and removed these two pages of irrelevance, I foresee that unessential
and therefore obscurantic matter will creep in. Well, when I come to weigh the completed record,
I must allow for that; and, meanwhile, so far as time and my own limitations as selector permit,
I will prune and clear away from the line of vision these weeds of errant fancy. For the record
must of all things be honest and comprehensive; rather than shapely, effective, or literary.
To be sure the pundits would say that this is to misuse and play with words; to perpetrate
a contradiction in terms. Well, we shall see. Whatever the critics might say, your author by
profession would understand me well enough when I say: 'Honest, rather than literary.'

How, to begin with, may I label and describe my present self? There, immediately, I am faced
with one of the difficulties of this task. One can say of most men that they are this or that;
of this class, order, sect, party, or type; and, behold them neatly docketed! But in all honesty
I cannot say that I am of any special class, or that I 'belong' anywhere in particular. There
is no circle in any community which is indefeasibly my own by right of birth and training.
I am still a member of two London clubs, I believe. They were never more than hotels for me.
I am probably what most folk call a gentleman; but how much does that signify in the twentieth
century? Many simple people would likely call me a person of education, even of learning, belike,
seeing a list of books under my name. A schoolman who examined me would be pardoned (by me,
at all events) for calling me an ignoramus of no education whatever. For--and this I never
reflected upon until the present moment--I could not for the life of me 'analyse' the simplest
sentence, in the rather odd scholastic sense of that word. Inherited instinct and long practice
make me aware, I believe, of an error in syntax, when I chance upon one. But I could only tell
you that it was wrong, and never how or why. I know something of literature, but less of mathematics
than I assume to be known by the modern ten-year-old schoolboy; something of three or four
languages, but nothing of their grammar. I have met and talked with some of the most notable
people of my time, but truly prefer cottage life before that of the greatest houses. And so,
in a score of other ways, I feel it difficult informingly and justly to label myself.

But--let me have done with difficulties and definitions. My task shall be the setting forth
of facts, out of which definitions must shape themselves. And, for a beginning, I must turn
aside from my present self, pass by a number of dead selves, each differing in a thousand ways
from every other, and bring my mind to bear for the moment upon that infinitely remote self:
the child, Nicholas Freydon. It may be that curious and distant infant will help to explain
the man.

CHILDHOOD--ENGLAND

I

The things I remember about my earliest infancy are not in the least romantic.

First, I think, come two pictures, both perfectly distinct, and both connected with domestic
servants. The one is of a firelit interior, below street level: an immense kitchen, with shining
copper vessels in it, an extremely hot and red fire, and a tall screen covered over with pictures.
An enormously large woman in a blue and white print gown sits toasting herself before the fire;
and a less immense female, in white print with sprays of pink flowers on it, is devoting herself
to me. This last was Amelia; a cheerful, comely, buxom, and in the main kindly creature, as
I remember her. In the kitchen was a well-scrubbed table of about three-quarters of a mile
in length, and possessed of as many legs as a centipede, some of which could be moved to support
flaps. (To put a measuring-tape over that table nowadays, or over other things in the kitchen,
for that matter, might bring disappointment, I suppose.) These legs formed fascinating walls
and boundaries for a series of romantic dwelling-places, shops, caves, and suchlike resorts,
among which a small boy could wander at will, when lucky enough to be allowed to visit this
warm apartment at all. The whole place was pervaded by an odour indescribably pleasing to my
infantile nostrils, and compact of suggestions of heat acting upon clean print gowns, tea-cakes
done to a turn, scrubbed wood, and hot soap-suds.

But the full ecstasy of a visit to this place was only attained when I was lifted upon the
vast table by the warm and rosy Amelia, and allowed to leap therefrom into her extended arms;
she rushing toward me, and both of us emitting either shrill or growling noises as the psychological
moment of my leap was reached. At the time I used to think that springing from a trapeze, set
in the dome of a great building, into a net beneath, must be the most ravishing of all joys;
but I incline now to think that my more homely feat of leaping into Amelia's warm arms was,
upon the whole, probably a pleasanter thing.

This memory is of something which I believe happened fairly frequently. My other most distinct
recollection of what I imagine to have been the same period in history is of a visit, a Sunday
afternoon visit, I think, paid with Amelia. I must have been of tender years, because, though
during parts of the journey I travelled on my own two feet, I recollect occasional lapses into
a perambulator, as it might be in the case of an elderly or invalid person who walks awhile
along a stretch of level sward, and then takes his ease for a time in victoria or bath-chair.

I remember Amelia lifting me out from my carriage in the doorway of what I regarded as a very
delightful small house, redolent of strange and exciting odours, some of which I connect with
the subsequent gift of a slab of stuff that I ate with gusto as cake. My mature view is that
it was cold bread-pudding of a peculiarly villainous clamminess. It is interesting to note
that my delight in this fearsome dainty was based upon its most malevolent quality: the chill
consistency of the stuff, which made it resemble the kind of leathery jelly that I have seen
used to moisten the face of a rubber stamp withal.

In this house--it was probably in a slum, certainly in a mean street--one stepped direct from
the pavement into a small kitchen, where an elderly man sat smoking a long clay pipe. A covered
stairway rose mysteriously from one side of this apartment into the two bedrooms above. A door
beside the stairway opened into a tiny scullery, from which light was pretty thoroughly excluded
by the high, black wall which dripped and frowned no more than three feet away from its window.
I have little doubt that this scullery was a pestilent place. At the time it appealed to my
romantic sense as something rather attractive.

The elderly man in the kitchen was Amelia's father. That in itself naturally gave him distinction
in my eyes. But, in addition, he was an old sailor, and, with a knife which was attached to
a white lanyard, he could carve delightful boats (thoroughly seaworthy in a wash-hand basin)
out of ordinary sticks of firewood. It is to be noted, by the way, a thing I never thought
of till this moment, that these same sticks and bundles of firewood have a peculiarly distinctive
smell of their own. It is the smell of a certain kind of grocer's shop whose proprietor, for
some esoteric reason, calls himself an 'Italian warehouse-man.' In later life I occasionally
visited such a shop, between Fleet Street and the river, when I had rooms in that locality.

Boat-building figured largely in that visit to Amelia's parents. (The girl had a mother; large,
flaccid, and, on this occasion, partly dissolved in tears.) But the episode immediately preceding
our departure is what overshadowed everything else for me that day, and for several subsequent
nights. Amelia and the tearful mother took me up the dark little stairway, and introduced me
to Death. They showed me Amelia's sister, Jinny, who died (of consumption, I believe) on the
day before our visit. I still can see the alabaster white face, with its pronounced vein-markings;
the straight, thin form, outlined beneath a sheet, in that tiny, low-ceiled, airless garret.
What a picture to place before an infant on a sunny Sunday afternoon! It might be supposed
that I had asked to see it, for I remember Amelia saying, as one about to give a child a treat:

'Now, mind, Master Nicholas, you're to be a very good boy, and you're not to say a word about
it to any one.'

But, no, I do not think I can have desired the experience, for to this day I cherish a lively
recollection of the agony of sick horror which swam over me when, in obedience to instructions
given, I suffered my lips to touch the marble-like face of the dead girl.

How strange is that unquestioning obedience of childhood! Recognition of it might well give
pause to careless instructors of youth. The kiss meant torture to me, in anticipation and in
fact. But I was bidden, and never dreamed of refusing to obey. No doubt, there was also at
work in me some dim sort of infantile delicacy. This was an occasion upon which a gentleman
could have no choice....

Ah, well, I believe Amelia was a dear good soul, and I am sure I hope she married well, and
lived happily ever after. I have no recollection whatever of how or when she drifted out of
my life. But the visit to Jinny's deathbed, and the exciting leaps from the immeasurably long
kitchen table into Amelia's print-clad arms, are things which stand out rather more clearly
in my recollection than many of the events of, say, twenty years later.

II

How is it that my earliest recollections should centre about folk no nearer or dearer to me
than domestic servants? I know that my mother died within three months of my birth. There had
to be, and was, another woman in my life before Amelia; but I have no memories of her. She
was an aunt, an unmarried sister of my mother's; but I believe my father quarrelled with her
before I began to 'take notice' very much; and then came Amelia.

The large underground kitchen really was fairly big. I had a look at it no more than a dozen
years ago. The house, too, was and is a not unpleasing one, situated within a stone's throw
of Russell Square, Bloomsbury. Its spaces are ample, its fittings solidly good, and its area
less subterranean than many. Near by is a select livery stable and mews of sub-rural aspect,
with Virginia creeper climbing over a horse's head in stucco. Amelia shared with me a night
nursery and a nursery-living room in this house, the latter overlooking the mews, through the
curving iron rails of a tiny balcony. Below us my father occupied a small bedroom and a large
sitting-room, the latter being the 'first floor front.'

At this time, and indeed during all the period of my first English memories--say, eight years--my
father was engaged in journalistic work. I know now that he had been called to the bar, a member
of Lincoln's Inn; but I do not know that he ever had a brief. He gave some years, I believe,
to coaching and tutoring. I remember seeing, later in my boyhood, a tattered yellow prospectus
which showed that he once delivered certain lectures on such subjects as 'Mediaeval English
Poetry.' In my time I gather that my father called no man master or employer, but was rather
the slave of a number of autocrats in Fleet Street. 'The office,' as between Amelia and myself,
may have meant all Fleet Street. But my impression now is that it meant the building then occupied
by the ----. (Here figures the name of one of London's oldest morning newspapers.--Ed.) And,
it may be, the ---- Club; for I have reason to believe that my father did much of his work
at his club. I have even talked there with one member at least who recollected this fact. Marquesa
is angry with her, and that it must leave the convent to be decided. Insists this a lot, huh?,
tell him we leave for Madrid, and again in the Court of King José I. .. Devil, that has sounded
a howitzer shot! ... I seem to have dropped a grenade in the roof of the house.

- A grenade? At least fifty are shot and - I said, poking the fire of his fear to go away soon
and leave me so sublime commission.

- So, my boy - he continued, shaking like a leaf - will you do it right? If you get answer take her
home.

Go soon. I shake myself running down the street where noise does not feel ...; goodbye.

Diplomat disappeared, driven by his fear, and immediately entered the convent porter with feverish
joy, and say loud thumps on the lathe.

A nagging voice told me.

- Deo gratias - I -. I come from my mistress, Ms. Marquesa de Leiva, to bring a message Miss Agnes.

The
concierge told me to wait in the parlor, and soon to be there corrióse curtain I saw this and two
nuns. I do not know how I stand on my feet. One was Agnes.

I had no doubt, was herself: in her face, thin and pale, had terrible form traces the sixty days
of constant sorrow since May 2, but I recognized, despite the very low light in the parlor,
and had admitted in the darkness of the bowels of the earth.

It seemed to me that he closed his eyes, and grabbed the bars with
two hands to hold.

When I addressed the first question, his voice trembled so, it was impossible to understand his
words.

No one can say, incapable of speech and movement, I stayed a short time with the face resting
on the grate.

The nun who was with her made me finally break the silence.

- Mrs. Marquesa has given me flowers and this letter - I said, introducing both for the take Inés.

-
Ah, the field for the Holy Child Nursing! - Said the old nun -. Madame do not forget us.

- Has also given me a message word for Ms. Inés - continued - and is to be prepared to leave
the convent to go with her to Madrid in a few days.

- Oh! - Said the old -. Ms. Countess and Mrs. Marquesa are wrong to
oppose the determined vocation of this child.

Why the drive to take her to Madrid, where she wants to leave wickedness
and abominations of the century!

The poor thing does not accountable to anyone but their promised husband, who is Our Lord Jesus
Christ.

- Mother Transverberation - said Agnes with full voice - the chocolate
and buns that have made their grants yesterday to madame, where are
they?

Will brought his mercy?

- Not true.

- If you have the goodness of your grace to go looking for this young man take ...!

- Well you could have brought them - said the old grunting.

- If Ms. Condesa not received this afternoon, very angry, and it will be difficult to convince
they do not want to leave this holy abode anymore.

- I'll get it ... what these girls!

Dejon Transverberation Mother alone, and then spoke as follows:

- Agnes mine, I'm alive, I have risen. I emerged alive from that pile of dead, where we lost
forever to our good friend Don Celestino. When you see me live without you, I thought that God
Life had returned to punish, but now I find you, I praise God because I see not once but twice, gave
me life.

- Should I go from here?

Should I do what I'm told the ladies? - Agnes asked impatiently, because they feared the return
of the Mother Transverberation.

- Yes, Agnes, get out of here. Do you send these ladies. What do they say in that letter?

- Here, read it - he said, holding out the through the fence.

In the dim light of the booth could read the letter, which stated,
among other things relating to and chocolate industry, the following:
"We hope that it will cease to profess your stubbornness.

We oppose strongly to it, and we do not want your income within this
family is signal annihilation of our house.

We told you that we had determined to marry a young of noble birth,
a project which lies happiness, greatness and dignity of the family
you belong.

Everything is arranged, and although it postponed because of the war, has finally to be, so
that if you persist in professing, we are filled with pain. Not long to serve solace in our solitude?
Not much for the love you profess? You do not want the position that belongs to you in our
hearts and in our house? My niece and I will to convince, and both have the trip to Madrid,
where he will accompany us, because your presence is indispensable to the measures of your legitimacy.
"

- Yes, I will go - Agnes said she finished reading the letter -.

I do not want to be here anymore.

- What, you were determined to profess?

- Yes, very determined.

I had no more comfort than the idea of ​​locked up here forever. When Cordoba brought me ...,
what days and what a trip!, I do not know what it was about me.

They locked me in the convent ... then came the ladies to tell me
that was his niece ... kissed me ... cried a lot the two ... and then
said I was going to marry, and when I said, 'Well since I have been
here I have to stay here a lifetime ", they were cut a lot ... I frequently
visit, accompanied by an elderly gentleman, a thousand caresses me
and says really love me, but I have never given in to his pleas to
leave.

- What now?

- The walls of the convent fall on me, and longing
to leave.

- But you're getting married! - Exclaimed indignantly -.

I want to marry, and does not sink the world.

Then he laughed, I think for the first time since a long time, and that spontaneous joy I found
the expression of a resurgent life.

Agnes left the cloister within the heap as I dead of the Moncloa, and answered with a loving
smile to my complaints, took out the tomb of the Order so thoughtlessly
foot it inside.

Seeing her laugh, I laughed too, and to the point, ignoring the situation, we spoke with the
confidence of those times when our sorrows into a single.

- Oh, girl!

Now that you Archduchess and panjandrum, do not you ashamed of loving?

-
But what do they do with me? - Asked, getting sad again.

- Look,
princess, do you send these ladies: obey him in everything.

You've already known the relationship you have with them. God has placed in their hands, accepts
what God gives you, and fix the rest.

- I will leave the convent - she said -. Ay! Do not be frightened little Mother when I hear it
say. But God does not want me to be a nun.

- You will not, not, and when I return from the war ...

- But are you going to war? Boy, who I have gotten to you at war?

- For what shall I do? You want life to be raised? Listen, Agnes, what happened to me For days
at home of Mrs. Countess.

I went to visit her, and having committed the indiscretion I wanted to tell you, is so enraged
that I was put on the front door.

Agnes clasped her hands, then dropping them with dismay on her lap, while rising his eyes to heaven,
saying nothing.

- I am only a servant, Agnes! - Exclaimed, holding tight to the fence and shaking, as if to smash it -,
I am only a wretched boy from the streets, unworthy of being watched by people in your category.
After we broke up, look how far we each other. But do not think that I'm sorry, I like to see
where you should be.

- What about you? - I asked in bewilderment.

- I'll do what I need, Inesilla. Come out of the convent, go to the ladies and wait quietly the
second that I'll pick you.

Then if you have not changed ... if you encounter the same ...

Contestóme instantly from your index finger by one of the holes in the fence. I kissed him, I bit
it so without thinking, she could not repress a little cry, Mother-to-point
Transverberation back with chocolate and biscuits.

- What's that
girl? - Asked the old woman, amazed to hear her scream.

- Nothing,
Mother Transverberation.

This grid has a peak ... Moving my hand hurt a finger - said Agnes,
sucking the joint of the index finger and shaking then to pretend
the pain of course scratch.

- Here are the chocolate and buns - added
the nun -.

Well, it's time for you to leave this young man, because it obscures and not have time to open the
parlor.

- Raging'm about to leave - I said -. Come here and that those chocolate buns, that Ms. Marquise
will be with the soul in a thread waiting so good things. What I say to grant in response to the
message that I had the honor to bring?

- That is fine - Agnes said, pressing his face against the fence .-- What shall I do what I'm
told, and when they want to come for me, I'm willing to leave the convent.

- How's that girl? - Growled alarmed the nun -.

What do you get out! What was your Future Spouse Jesus Christ if it reaches his ears you said!
And you should know necessarily because He is everywhere and hears everything. Nothing, nothing
- he said, snuggling his nose to the gate -.

Raptor Ms. Marquesa tell you that the girl persists in her exemplary
vocation and if they want to see angry and fuming with rage, that
speak of the century and its temptations.

Agnes burst into a laugh so natural, so graceful, so fresh, so joyous,
that even the walls of the convent seemed to rejoice as mood music.

-
Laughter as mundane What are those? - Mother said Transverberation -.

It is the first time you laugh like that in this house. What happens to all this joy? ...
Inside girl inside; give part of this unprecedented naturalness to the Mother Abbess.

Remained closed the parlor and out into the street. Sentíame with new life, with hundredfold
forces in my mind and my body; sentíame capable of anything, self-denial, the struggle until
heroism, because the presence and words of Agnes had opened unknown
horizons vast spaces in front of me.

XV

Before arriving at the inn, loud noise of drums and trumpets announced the departure of my army.
I ran to get my arms and my horse, and they noticed my absence, I was in row Master Count
the Rumble, Marijuán and the rest of the game. It was already dark when we, and all the people
that took part in spontaneous celebration of our farewell thousands the lights came up as we go
on balconies and doors greet any woman stopped from the gate, and no lover, and all the children
fathered by this prolific generation left front of the drums, accompanying us to beyond the
New Gate.

We walked all night, and the next day, leaving the Carpio, we stray from the path Andalusia real,
taking the right direction Bujalance. During the first day Santorcaz find that Bailen had left
to join his gang, and all We were pleased to see him.

- Here I bring several small gifts that sends you his lady mother - said my master, giving some
packages -. The lady was upsetting because he had no news from you, and instructed me look
after him well. Did Mr. Conde visits Ms Mary ordered?

- Occasionally - "my love -. And you, why not come before?

- What the devil! With these things nor do we post or who carry a letter. However, I I received
the expected, and here I am at last looking like the others, who stumble the French.

Since then Santorcaz was the main character of the gang after the master site who knew how to conquer
with ease subduing of their conversation. Put it all suesmero in pleasing D. Diego, easy thing
to achieve, and I always set beside it, caught quickly the spirit of good guy, and telling
her extraordinary feats and facts, and suggesting to his fertile imagination, ideas and concepts
to rock a young spark, but far behind in their intellectual development.

And all these, gentlemen, not a word I have said that army, or its foreign composition, but harken
now, that far from being late, this is the propitious moment to do so, as the proverb that
says: "Everything in its time, and turnips in Advent."

The army base was in Andalusia troops in the field of San Roque, commanded by Brown, and brought
in after Don Teodoro Reding of Granada. It consisted of the elite of our infantry line, with
some very good horses and artillery, not to exceed the number of 13-14000 people. Agregáronse
some provincial regiments and countrymen who spontaneously or by order of the Boards are engaged
in major cities of Andalusia. Difficult to know the exact figure rose to forces armed civilians,
but surely there were many, because the call had called all the boys of sixteen to forty-five,
single, married and widowed childless five feet one inch, measured barefoot. In addition to the
well useless, as lame, maimed, blind, etc.., were exempted those who had exercised his pregnant wife
or charges public and the Epistle to the ordained, but there was no discrimination because of
crop or farm work. The only rejection of the rows, without having those repairs, were blacks,
mulattos, butchers, executioners and criers. With countrymen, therefore, created five Sevilla battalions
and two cavalry regiments, commanded the battalion Cádiz carrying handles your name, and the
cities and villages of Utrera, Jerez, Osuna, Carmona, Jaén, Montoro and Goat sent infantry
and cavalry corps of irregular number.

This increased the army, but had yet to grow a little one, which was
started dwarf giant be terrible, if not for his size, his strength.

The Spanish soldiers that the Government Madrid incorporated to Moncey divisions, Lefebvre
Vedel or were fleeing their treacherous rows whenever they had occasion for it, so that to
verify those armies to march through places hilly or broken, they saw that the Spanish I escaped
through his fingers, as they say. The defectors came to swell the Blake army troops, the Cuesta
or that of Brown, and arrived in Cordoba and Carmona Many who escaped the ranks of Moncey, and
almost everyone who made the campaign Portugal with Junot.

Those officers and soldiers, literally breaking the discipline that France held the invasion
to come to the call of moral discipline of his country oppressed, made the journey in disguise,
pierced walk the mountains and the fiery plains, until a core of Spanish power. It was pitiful
to see them get torn, barefoot and hungry, but found his joy at last invaded earth made them
forget all penalties. With these defectors, who included bodyguards, Walloons, engineers and artillery,
our military has increased somewhat.

But even grew some more. The Board of Seville was pardoned on 15 May to all smugglers and that
they were not punished for the crimes of murder, treachery or treason human or divine, and
this brought a game, if not the best army in the world by customs,
however was not afraid to fight, and strongly disciplined army gave
excellent soldiers.

Ibros, a place famous in the annals of smuggling; Jandulilla, Campillo de Arenas, and other locations,
later delivered to the saber of the Civil Guard and the police, sent respectable squads, with
the particularity that come armed to the teeth, and being all gentlemen of very good temper,
they knew where the mouth of the powerhouse cast, auxiliaries are reputed as very effective
army. Spanish regulated bodies with Some Swiss and Walloon regiments of the line, who were
the flower of Spanish troops, regiments provincial, ignoring the war, but they were about to learn,
honest countrymen mostly well versed in the art of hunting, and generally threw admirably and,
finally, smugglers, rogues, vagabonds of the mountains of Cordoba
Chulilla, lazy converted into warriors in the heat of patriotic fire
that inflamed the country lost and marauders, who put serving the
national cause their evil arts, the good and bad, noble and ignoble
that the country had, since its ablest general to the last PELAIRES
Colt of Cordova, a countryman and colleague of Manto Sancho: these
were the elements Andalusian army.

Formed of what existed, came to compose the great heap of flowers and slag the nation, nothing was
hidden, because fermentation took it all to the surface, and our revenge crater same pure spits fire
the reeking lava. Removed within the country, cast out what they had engendered in him the glorious
and the degenerate centuries, and reaching with one arm to defend themselves, worked with
the right and left wielding the sword with him and with this historic knife.

As for uniforms and costumes, Tell them to all known forms.

It is wonderful how was equipped this army of peasants in sixteen
days.

The current Administration, with all resources, is a portal tailor compared with that manufacturer
that set in motion million needles in two weeks. In a state that history has not thought worthy
of pages, but it still exists, although forgotten, shows the number of pieces of clothing they
did free the nuns and ladies of Seville. It reads:

"For the Communities and ladies of distinction have been made 3,335 shirts, 1,768 pants 167 jackets
soldier 1,001 shirts, 312 shorts and 700 jackets Sergeant boots 374 Cloth, 149 chivalry bags,
16 bags and 1,684 badges. "Ladies Alcolea those of Carmona, Lora
del Rio and other towns in the account with similar figures.

This
diversity of hands in the making of clothing indicates that the uniform
voice, as regards volunteers, was an empty word. Beside the white
coats with black lapel, crimson or blue, wearing most of the regiments
of the line, the blue side of the Levites with shoulder strap and
Swiss Walloons wearing, we saw the coats of brown cloth with which
colecticia people covered. Among the higher the artillery helmets
and caps of grenadiers, drew attention to our Portuguese white hats
and caps barracks and touched countless classes covering their shooters
and volunteers chollas of peoples. As I said before, this army was
laugh.

What about the money for war? Laughable to see how pumpkins
today gives a finance minister to arbitrate, bound for another war,
a few million if anyone wants to give mortgage to the last rag of
the nation. Learn, selfish generations. Read Lists of donations by
unions, by traders, by the nobles and even beggars. That itself was
raining money, and reunite in heaps, without even a fleece is leaking
Realito between holes for administrative basket! In the list of donations
is a departure moving that reads: "Mrs. Countess Montelirio widow
has given his toalet of silver, expressing the feeling that your media
does not reach as much as his will. "

Will there today who give their
toalet? ...

XVI

Our march by Cañete de las Torres towards the Salt
River was a real triumphal, rather, it seemed hardly leaving, because
the townspeople, including women, elderly and little boys, we were
to either side of the road, jamming and dancing parties at every stop.
When the army halted, apparently eclipsábanse all evil of the country,
because the troops recovering humor, became the camp at the fair.
I do not know where it came out many guitars, I could not understand
what those facts were bodies, so tireless in dancing as exercise,
or what were extremely hard metal gorges, to be as constant screaming
and singing. In every case these volumes were rare and hard to come by, greatly in demand,
'the pick of the basket,' and so forth. Well, I suppose that is commerce. At the time it seemed
to me amply to justify all my father's lofty scorn and hatred for everything in any way connected
with business.

If only the book-dealer could have adopted Mr. Fennel's praiseworthy attitude, I thought: 'Pray
don't put yourself about, sir, on my account, I beg.' But then, Mr. Fennel, I make no doubt,
was heading straight for bankruptcy. I have sought his name in vain among Putney's modern tradesfolk.
Whereas, Mr. Siemens, the gentleman who bought our library, apart from his various thriving
establishments in London, now cherishes his declining years, I believe, in a villa in the Italian
Riviera, and a manor house in Hampshire. Though young, when I met him in Putney, he evidently
had the root of the matter in him, from a commercial point of view, and was possibly even a
little in advance of his time in the matter of business ability. He drove a very smart horse,
I remember, was dressed smartly, and had a smart way of saying that business was business.
Yes, I dare say Mr. Siemens was more a man of his time than my poor father.

It was on the afternoon of May 2, 1870, the day after my tenth birthday, that we sailed from
Gravesend for Sydney, in the full-rigged clipper ship Ariadne, of London, with one hundred
and forty-seven other emigrants and eighteen first-class passengers. It was, I suppose, a part
of my father's enthusiastically desperate state of mind at this time that we were booked as
steerage passengers. We were to lay aside finally all the effete uses of sophisticated life.
We were emigrants, bent upon carving a home for ourselves out of the virgin wilderness. Naturally,
we were to travel in the steerage. And, indeed, I have good reason to suppose that my father's
supply of money must have been pretty low at the time. But we occupied a first-class railway
carriage on the journey down to Gravesend; and I know our porter received a bright half-crown
for his services to us, for my father's hands were occupied, and the coin was passed to me
for bestowal.

Long before the tug left us, we sat down to our first meal on board; perhaps a hundred of us
together. A weary poor woman with two babies was on my left, and a partly intoxicated man of
the coal-heaving sort (very likely a Cabinet Minister in Australia to-day) on my father's right.
This simple soul made the mistake of endeavouring to establish an affectionate friendship with
my father, who was sufficiently resentful of the man's mere proximity, and received his would-be
genial advances with the most freezing politeness. But the event which precipitated a crisis
was the coal-heaver's removal of his knife from his mouth--the dexterity with which his kind
can manipulate these lethal weapons, even when partly intoxicated, is little less than miraculous--after
the safe discharge there of some succulent morsel from his plate, to plunge it direct into
the contents of the butter-dish before my father.

Black wrath descended upon my father's face as he rose from the table, and drew me up beside
him. 'Insufferable!' he muttered, as we left that curious place for the first and last time.
I see it now with its long, narrow, uncovered tables, stretching between clammy iron stanchions,
and supported by iron legs fitting into sockets in the deck. It was lighted by hanging lanterns
which threw queer, moving shadows in all directions, and stank consumedly.

'Are we hogs that we should be given our swill in such a sty?' asked my father, explosively,
of some subordinate member of the crew whom we met as we reached the open deck.

'I dunno, matey,' replied this innocent. 'Feelin' sickish, are ye? You've started too soon.'

'Yes, I'm feeling pretty sick,' said my father, as the glimmer of the humorous side of it all
touched his mind. 'Look here, my man,' he continued, 'here's half a crown for you. I want to
see the purser of this ship. Just show me where I can find him, like a good fellow, will you?'

We found the purser in that condition of harassment which appears to belong, like its uniform,
to his post, when a ship is clearing the land. He was inclined at first to adopt a pretty short
way with us. He really didn't know what emigrants wanted these days. Did they think a ship's
steerage was a ho-tel? And so forth.

But my father was on his mettle now, and handled his man with considerable skill and suavity.
There was no second-class accommodation on the ship. But in the end we were taken into the
first-class ranks, at a substantial reduction from the full first-class fares, on the understanding
that we contented ourselves with a somewhat gloomy little single-berth cabin which no one else
wanted. Here a makeshift bed was presently arranged for me, and within the hour we emigrants
from the steerage had become first-class passengers. The translation brought such obvious and
real relief to my father that my own spirits rose instantly; I began to take great interest
in our surroundings, and, from that moment, entirely forgot those prophetic internal twinges,
those stomachic forebodings which, in the 'other place,' as politicians say, had begun to turn
my thoughts toward the harrowing tales I had heard of sea-sickness.

My father, poor man, was not so fortunate. He began before long to pay a heavy price in bodily
affliction for all the stress and excitement of the past few days. For a full fortnight the
most virulent type of sea-sickness had him in its horrid grip. I have since seen many other
folk in evil case from similar causes, but none so vitally affected by the complaint as my
father was, and never one who bore it with more patient courtesy than he did. Not in the cruellest
paroxysm did he lose either his self-respect, or his consideration for me, and for others.
The mere mention of this fell complaint excites mirth in the minds of the majority; but rarely
can a man or woman be found whose self-control is proof against its attacks; and I take pleasure
in remembering my father's admirable demeanour throughout his ordeal. In the steerage he had
hardly survived it, I think. Here, with decent privacy, no single complaint passed his lips;
and there was not a day, hardly an hour, I believe, in which he ceased to take thought for
his small son's comfort and wellbeing. His courtesy was no skin-deep pose with my father. No
doubt we are all much cleverer and more enlightened nowadays, but--however, that is one of
the lines of thought which it is quite unnecessary for me to pursue here.

I was quite absurdly proud of my father, I remember, when, at length, he made his first appearance
on the poop, leaning on my shoulder, his own shoulders covered by the soft rug we called the
'Hobson rug,' because, years before, a friend of that name had bequeathed it to us, after a
visit to the house near Russell Square. In all the time that came afterwards, I am not sure
that my father's constitution ever fully regained the tone it lost during our first fortnight
aboard the Ariadne. But, if his health had suffered a set-back, his manner had not; that distinction
of bearing in him which always impressed me, in which I took such pride, seemed to me now more
than ever marked.

Child though I was, I am assured that this characteristic of my father's had a very real existence,
and was not at all the creation of my boyish fancy. From my very earliest days I had heard
it commented upon by landladies and servants, and, too, in remarks casually overheard from
neighbours and strangers. Now, among our fellow-passengers on board the Ariadne, I heard many
similar comments.

Looking back from this distance I find it somewhat puzzling that in my father's personality
there should have been combined so much of real charm, dignity, and distinction, with so marked
a distaste for the society of his fellows. Here was a man who seemed able always to inspire
interest and admiration when he did go among his equals (or those not his equals, for that
matter), who yet preferred wherever possible to avoid every form of social intercourse. By
nature he seemed peculiarly fitted to make his mark in society; by inclination and habit, more
especially in later life, it would seem he shunned society as the plague itself. Withal, there
was not the faintest suggestion of moroseness about him, and when circumstances did lead him
into converse with others he always conveyed an impression of pleased interest. This product
of his exceptional courtesy and considerateness must have puzzled many people, taken in conjunction
with his invariable avoidance of intercourse wherever that could be managed with politeness.
Far more than any monetary or more practical consideration, it was, I am certain, this desire
of my father's to get away from people which had led to our migration.

'People interrupt one so horribly,' was a remark he frequently made to me.

V

Folk whose experience of sea travel is confined to the passengers' quarters on board modern
steamships of high tonnage can have but a shadowy conception of what a three months' passage
round the Cape means, when it is made in a 1200 ton sailing vessel. I can pretend to no technical
knowledge of ships and seafaring; but it is always with something of condescension in my mental
attitude that I set foot on board a steamship, or hear praise of one of the palatial modern
'smoke-stacks.' It was thus I remember that the Ariadne's seamen spoke of steamships.

I suppose room could almost be found for the Ariadne in the saloons of some of the twentieth-century
Atlantic greyhounds. But I will wager that the whole fleet of them could not show a tithe of
her grace and spirited beauty in a sea-way. And, be it noted, they would not be so extravagantly
far ahead of the Ariadne even in point of speed, say, between the Cape and Australia, when,
in running her easting down with a living gale on her quarter, she spurned the foam from her
streaming sides to the tune of a steady fourteen to fifteen knots in an hour; 'snoring along,'
as seamen say, with all her cordage taut as harp-strings, and her clouds of canvas soaring
heavenward tier on tier, strained to the extreme limit of the fabric's endurance.

From talk with my father, I knew the Ariadne of mythology, and so the sight of the patent log-line
trailing in the creamy turmoil of our wake used always to suggest imaginings to me, as I leaned
gazing over our poop rail, of a modern Theseus being rescued by this line of ours from the
labyrinthine caverns of some submarine Minotaur.

Aye, she was a brave ship, and these were brave days of continuously stirring interest to the
lad fresh from Putney and its Academy for the Sons of Gentlemen; or, as I should probably say,
from one of its academies. I do not recall that life itself, the great spectacle, had at this
period any interest for me, as such. My musings had not carried me so far. But the things and
people about me, the play of the elements, and the unceasing and ever-varying activities of
the ship's working, appealed to me as his love to a lover, filling my every hour with waiting
claims, each to my ardour more instant and peremptory than its fellow.

Rhapsodies have been penned about the simple candour of children, the unmeasured frankness
of boys. These qualities were not, I think, conspicuous in me. At least, I recall a considerable
amount of play-acting in my life on board the Ariadne, and, I think, in even earlier phases.
As a boy, it seems to me, I had a very keen appetite for affection. I was somewhat emotional
and sentimental, and always interested in producing an impression upon the minds of those about
me. Without reaching the point of seeing life as a spectacle, I believe my own small personality
presented a spectacle of which I was pretty generally and interestedly conscious. There was
a good deal of drama for me, in my own insignificant progress. I often watched myself, and
strove to gauge the impression I produced on others, and to mould and shape this to my fancy.
There may possibly be something unpleasant, even unnatural about this, in so young a boy. I
do not know, but I am sure it is true; and so it is rightly set down here.

There was a Mrs. Armstrong among our passengers, who was accompanied by two daughters; a bonny,
romping girl of sixteen, in whom I felt little or no interest, and a serious young woman of
two or three-and-twenty, with whom I fell in love in an absurdly solemn fashion. Miss Armstrong
had a great deal of shining fair hair, a good figure, and pleasing dark blue eyes. That is
as far as memory carries me regarding her appearance. She rather took me up, as she might have
taken up crewel work, whatever that may be, or district visiting, or what not. No doubt she
was among the majority in whom my father inspired interest. She talked to me in an exemplary
way, and held up before me, as I remember it, a sort of blend of little Lord Fauntleroy and
the dreadful child in East Lynne, as an ideal to strive after.

She assuredly meant most kindly by me, but the influence was not, perhaps, very wholesome;
or, it may be, I twisted and perverted it to ill uses. At least, I remember devious ways in
which I sought to earn her admiration, and other yet more devious ways in which I schemed to
win petting from her. I actually used to invent small offences and weave circumstantial romances
about pretended wrong-doings, in order to have the pleasure of confessing, with mock shame,
and getting absolution, along with caresses and sentimental promises of help to do better in
future. In retrospect it seems I was a somewhat horrid little chap in this. I certainly adored
Miss Armstrong; though in an entirely different way from the manner of my subsequent passion
for little black-haired Nelly Fane. The Fane family consisted of the father, mother, one boy,
and two girls: Nelly, and her sister Marion, both charming children, the first very dark, the
other fair. Nelly was a year older than I, Marion two years younger. The boy, Tom, was within
a month or two of my own age.

It might be that I was wearying a little of the solemn sentimentality of my attachment to Miss
Armstrong; possibly the pose I thought needful for holding this young lady's regard withal
proved exhausting after a time. At all events, I remember neglecting her shamefully in equatorial
latitudes, when the Ariadne was creeping along her zig-zag course through the Doldrums. For
me this period, fascinating in scores of other ways, belongs to Nelly Fane, with her long black
curls, biscuit-coloured legs and arms, and large, melting dark eyes. At the time the thought
of being separated from this imperious little beauty meant for me an abomination of desolation
too dreadful to be contemplated. But, looking back upon the circumstances of my suit, I think
it likely my heart had never been captivated but for jealousy, and my trick of seeing myself
as the first figure in an illustrated romance.

There was another boy on board--I remember only his Christian name: Fred--who, in addition
to being a year older than myself, had the huge advantage of being an experienced traveller.
He was an Australian, and had been on a visit with his parents to the Mother-country. At a
quite early stage in our passage, he won my cordial dislike by means of his old traveller's
airs, and--far more unforgiveable--the fact that he had the temerity to refer to my father,
in my hearing, as 'The old chap who can't get his sea-legs.' I fear I never should have forgiven
him for that.

In addition, as we youngsters played together about the decks, this Fred used to arrogate to
himself always the position of leader and director. He knew the proper names of many things
of which the rest of us were ignorant, and, where his knowledge did not carry him, I was assured
his conceit and hardihood did. To such ears as Nelly Fane's, for instance, 'Jib-boom,' 'Fore
topmast-staysail,' must have an admirably knowledgeable note about them, I thought, even if
ever so wrongly used. My first attack upon Fred consisted in convicting him of some such swaggering
misuse of a nautical term to the which, as luck had it, I had given careful study on the fo'c'sle-head
during the previous evening's second dog-watch, when my friends among the crew were taking
their leisure. He bore no malice, I think; in any case, his self-esteem was a very hardy growth,
and little liable to suffer from any minor check.

We never came to blows, the Australian and myself, which was probably as well for me, since
I make no doubt the lad could have trounced me soundly, for he was disgustingly wiry and long
of limb. True architect of considerable merit, or obscure Arfe
Cellini, olvidadoen the center of this provincial town, making the new custody reproducing inspired
breathtaking beauties in ancient few seemed. Prisca, old man's friend architect, goes daily to
see and celebrate progress in the manufacture of new custody. Strange, complicated and passionate
mix of emotions stirred the hearts and minds of Prisca when he learns that the person who made
the generous donation is the boyfriend who had abandoned, which rich and happy lives in very distant
regions! Unable to resist his weakened body to the violence of the emotions that stir the
spirit, Prisca falls ill of fatal illness, and breathed his last when finished and the new custody,
passes in solemn and triumphant procession through the door of his house. The memories of puppy
love and the later mysticism of life Prisca amalgamate and melt gently in his soul in those last
moments, purifying and exalting in such a way past love earth, not heaven's sake profane or
put the slightest stain on cleaning.

Without affectation of archaism and purism, but in the most natural and spontaneous language
Mr. Lee Roberts is pure and in all of his stories, and scenes describing copied from the natural
look, with accuracy in the details, and without the author's small vexed by neat, defects
in which usually fall on a day not a few novelists. Very reasonable hopes that Mr. Lee Roberts
will be one of the best that Spain can boast this century, give us the short stories written
and published by him when is still very young.

III

Another notable talent as an author of books unknown to me at
least so far, is D. Adelard Ortiz de Pinedo.

The work of his recently published and have read with great interest, is entitled The chasm.
If the clothes of a novelist are sharp and insightful talent observation, the final skill for drawing
and painting style characters, and the art of combining events and circumstances to develop
an action lead to the evolution with increasing speed and ensure it reaches the end and outcome
that the author fixed, we may ensure that Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo has these items and is known to
be or is already a novelist short no merit. Topped off with a view straight and severe, it
is to give excellent lessons moral and do not use it impertinent speeches, but getting born
or derived of the same events that counts. To achieve this end is, finally, on the clear real
world view and society in which they live, the powerful imagination and art should with inventing
the facts, incidents and conflicts, and groups and ordered by moving to a purpose determined.

The
gulf, however, has, to my way of feeling, a little bit funny, that I dare not failing to qualify,
but I would be glad to disappear in other works where the type. I have no doubt that I will write,
for he has shown great willingness in the already written, and the
deserved applause with which the public will encourage insurance.

The defect, call it so, is the most tremendous pessimism. The approval and even if you want
admired as works of art that causes us the chasm is not backed out
of pure aesthetic pleasure, but fed up bitter and poisoned by the
spectacle of meanness and wickedness of human beings, and impious
and desperate doubts about the providence of heaven.

Do not believe it said that I accused Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo to create exaggerated characters ill.
The worst of those in the gulf is set in the world, it must be confessed,
models more vicious, more despicable and more vicious.

No sin, then, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo to create beings Human worse than they actually are; sin because
apart from the side, and we say, the sphere of action and passion of the heroine of his novel
he has decided to plunge into the darkest abyss every man and every woman can feel for her a noble
and selfless affection as you can, know and want to give good advice, provide the precipice about
to fall and hold not to fall, lay a strong and loving hand to lift his fall or hold at least
in misfortune unquenchable.

Ramona, daughter of Philip predatory lender, which has become very rich, educated in an excellent
and aristocratic girls' school where, on his good natural background,
puts education the most delicate feelings.

Unfortunately, Ramona, according to the decision Gospel, is candid as doves, but is very far
from fulfilling the first part council or commandment, it is not wise as the serpent. Notable
is its unpredictability and pitiful ineptitude for life. Saved in your soul a treasure of virtues,
but it certainly is lacking the two cardinal virtues that matter most: the wisdom and strength.

Ramona
marries a young Marquis without showing in the novel who marries for love. He married to marry and
to be Marchesa. The Marquis wants to gild their coats of arms by way of marriage, and she wants
to boast their gold. If this is happening too often. Not hold I morally
very nice.

Very dignified for a man using its noble titles and splendor that surrounds the high society
in which they live, to get a woman kept. Not always, however, such marriage contracts bring with
them misfortune. Perhaps the title is a blessed husband, so full of gratitude and affection for
its rich consort like Elijah or St. Paul the Hermit, to the ravens brought them food. And maybe time,
if the husband is entitled ready, the money goes for his wife and serves auparle relief point
of entry to political life, climbing the highest positions and shine and shine on them to his companion.

This
is not to deny that the husband of the title holder can not, and sometimes not, and a tonti-crazy and
a heartless scoundrel, and the most wasteful and vicious of all men, but this seems unlikely
that any news was not taken before the wedding and even before the engagement. How is it that
the father and the mother of the girl did not object? What blindness as large was not the same
girl and so unreasonable and so just explained, because his love
is not to be very eager to give up and devote himself to a lost soul,
only about the mere encouragement of the Marquis?

In the case of the pit, the docility of Ramona borders on stupidity and weakness unlikely character,
but is even less plausible that D. Philip, her father, who had much expert on financial considerations,
does not provide for the ruination of his son, and consequently, their daughter and not seek
to avoid it. The only one who seeks the mother and the mother dies of hot flashes.

Don Felipe, as is revealed, life was already in his wife's affair with the maid she marries well
widowed. Lance is this naturalísimo, vulgar and credible. What is rare, this is the full evil
of every individual. Always or almost always, by of the most perverse qualities, often comes
a good or average among the ingredients that make up the character
of each person.

The most outrageous whore, which, abusing the senile lasciviousness and pursuing it with diabolical
cunning, arrives to take over the heart and wealth an old fool, and generally be kind to be
forgiven their rascalities, even without the slightest glimmer of goodness in his soul, and
to calm his conscience in check balance of its shares any good to counterbalance the bad. I'm
not saying Nicole, the stepmother of the Marquise Ramona, is a creature of pure evil unlikely.
There are or should Nicole had many real life and in society in which we live. The strange thing about
all this, It appears that no natural result of the concatenation of things, but mat or woven
fabric by the devil, is not around, or near or far from the poor Ramona subject male or female
that is honest, decent and kind to her and that something may be of useful. The only person who
has for her friendly and selfless devotion is a poor hunchback helpless and almost useless.

How
is it possible that Ramona did not have a friend in his old schoolmates or between people of
the middle class who had to visit and treat his father and mother, or between elegant ladies that
she was to meet and entertain at home before being ruined? For I know that that is poor people
often despise and turn their backs, but not to the extent that there is only one rational creature
to take his hand and encourage and comfort him.

In high school, and beyond, Ramona, Catholic educators, had to take confessors, there to deal with
priests. How not find a less indifferent and cold depths less off and hard for the father she
Zubulzu?

Ramona was beautiful, elegant, there was nothing foolish and while living in high society,
and not fall into the pit, had to have fans, young and old friends
that estimated that cared for her, and some of which, despite all
his modesty and severity of morals, could she be kind, granting favors
those breed predilection and clean and friendly no longer trust the
austere virtue, but neither the sanctity prohibited.

How is it that none of those friends first tried to avoid falling into the abyss, or tried
to remove it after without demanding in return the humiliation and disgrace?

It is possible that the circumstances have so that an unfortunate person does not find who turn
away, but should not be assumed, without insulting or slandering the human race unfortunate
that such person is not offended because it really does not exist in the world. Misfortune Ramona
arrives, therefore the rarest if not the most incredible extremes. Out of hunchback nobody there
to assist it or to look for it: neither raised nor other poor people, or people, middle class,
friends or relatives of your family, or ladies and gentlemen of the aristocratic society that
has grown up and has since lived.

Strange is also the complete and terrible misery to which the author leads her heroine, providing
it to do so magnanimous generosity, which can not but be a bit confused with the simplicity even in
the thinking of fictional people and despised material interests.

Anyone would think, finally, the idea that a young healthy woman, twenty-five or twenty years, carefully
educated, must have some ability to know something, have some means,
industry or resource to earn an honest living.

It can be nurse, teacher rich or chaperon. You can teach music, French, English, and hand work
to first letters. You can embroider, paint, make something, in short, it is worth two or three
pesetas daily. Bad luck tightening, but not always chokes. In The chasm is too note the strong
author's efforts to hasten her as his heroine throwing on such a
depth that does not able to leave, that he had no recourse but death
or infamy.

Ramona driven by the gloomy imagination of Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo, is to fall fatally in this horrible
dilemma: either kill or be the mistress of the bullfighter Severiano, aka the band. And as
the unhappy Ramona lacks the courage that is required premeditated suicide, or if the value is
not missing, his conscience or religious ban him committing such heinous crime, Ramona opt
on the other end of the dilemma, and it is seen, at the end of the novel, which will incur an sin
uglier, dirtier and more plebeian, though less fierce and less unlike suicide natural order and
reason and divine will.

While reading the last pages of the abyss we forge for a few moments of pleasant Ramona illusion
that, in the midst of its abandonment, was to find a noble defender in the torero someone to protect
her brutally without requiring payment, but, as already indicated, this illusion fades quickly.
The bullfighter is no better than the other beings of our species. Prominent among them only
by their energy, but this energy does not manifest its activity by any generous impulse, but
motivated only by selfish and bestial appetites.

Although as stated above, despite some improprieties and improbabilities in details, and despite
too many coincidences that occur with regard to seem fortuitous, as the sudden appearance of
a bullfighter in a serious time that saves Ramona the most shameful and miserable trance, the
pit is planned and written with such art, their reading interests, attracts and seduces, but
instead to delight grieve, ending up discouraged, if we had no recourse to think that everything
is fake and false, that everything is fixed, exaggerated and teratology,
and not ordinary and current, fortunately.

In short, I would dare to call me Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo of good painter of manners, although I am
glad that showed less bitter taste for bad painter, and that he should put less black, less shadows
and more light, ink and more pink and blue sky on his palette. Perhaps in the future do so without persist
in producing extraordinary grieving effects more than just the minds of his readers. Very much
so, in my opinion, will win with this, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo.

IV

Like all naive and gullible reader may conclude after reading The gulf is an abominable Patulea most
humans, the reading of another novel that I have on brand my desk, whose title is snow and mud,
can mislead less cruel, but not least evident.

Is it credible, is common in real life there is a large body of men
women and gentle, simple, virtuous and good through and through, who
would live happily and honestly in a perpetual and syrupy romance,
if there were not a tyrant who impose them His yoke, who treat them
with kicks and that dominate at will, as fierce and rustic shepherd
a meek and helpless flock.

This idea of ​​the goodness of the crowd and misfortune to the evil one sentence which prevails
over it prevails or is less misanthropic idea that assumed that all or almost all, we are
evil, but is no less false idea and so much more popularized. The bad princes, governments stupid
or immoral, unjust judges, the authority, short, any grade or class that is, are, for those
who think that luck, guilt of all evil. If a city, town or village is impoverished and ruined, if
its inhabitants lose welfare, rest and culture that once enjoyed,
blame the council or the mayor.

And if a nation goes down, you lose your power and credit, and if foreign nations the insult
or belittle, blame the king or his foolish and wicked ministers. The false it is to think
of that way is clearly warns, considering that neither the mayor or the council, neither King
nor the ministers, or anyone of those overlap and command and would incur evil stupid things,
if not sustained them in their wickedness and their stupidity, collaborating with them, if not
most, the most active and spirited of the beings who compose the nation, city, town or village.
In every sin, in any crime, all tyranny, there is hardly anything ever attributed to one. The entire
society must respond to the nonsense of power when given the power to fools, and declared guilty
of the outrages and crimes of the same power that she represents and creates, sustains and endures.

Not
understand why we suppose essential, even distrust convenient frequent imprisonment or insurrection
of the governed so that they are not done, a pair of victims, accomplices of the blunders,
excesses and crimes of those who govern. What I suppose, and what I think about at face value,
is that the tyrant, benevolent or malevolent monarch or tribune president of the republic,
or chief alcalde, grows, feeds or breathe the environment, does the will of the most or more
worth by the number or energy, and not be what it is if you do not provide relief and support
for this whatsoever. Maybe Nero, upon his return to rule the day in a cultured nation in Europe,
would be a constitutional monarch afabilísimo something fun lover
and friend, very generous patron of the sciences and arts, would by
his side to a composer of operas such as Wagner, to some excellent
Lola Montes dancer and a brilliant retinue of architects, sculptors,
painters, poets, writers and scholars.

Perhaps Philip II, and again to rise and reign in Spain he so identified with the national spirit
and national thought then, would cominero and with no less suspicious and no less cumbersome
than it already did, but drifting stream of time, far from being a fan, it would be a freethinker,
but surreptitiously, with firmness, and seek for different orientations, as they say now, that
enlargement and prosperity of their states that undoubtedly sought when there appeared for
the first time.

Bring to mind all the above to the foundation of the opinion that I give on the aforementioned Snow
and mud novel. Is snow, if not the entire population, the vast majority of people a picturesque
and beautiful village of the Alpujarras, located in the fertile but Riscoso skirt Veleta the lofty,
and designated by the pseudonym Iberuela. And are silt Mayor or chief and his son Luke, two
devils incarnate all Anasco. But for them, that place would be paradise. The rural simplicity
of manners, cheerful innocence soft and pure love would prevail there if it were not for Lucas,
the mayor's son is hooked, as a lecherous satyr, the gentle Hope, paragon of all virtues and
other good garments that can enhance the merit of a girl. The father of this is a great subject.
And the parson, D. Serafin, a true holy man, a venerable servant of God, a model cures. His nephew,
Luciano, not far behind in point of moral perfection.

Is selfless discreet, hardworking, educated and courageous, demonstrating the latest in the war
in Cuba, where he had to go to war because he dropped the card as a soldier. Already returned to
the place with the license absolute, it becomes a school teacher, and teaches the kids so well
and with such skill and affection, the boys and parents will bless and love him.


As the morning wore on, however, and we left behind us all likelihood of chance encounters
with more fortunately placed and therefore critical people, bestriding pigskin, Ted's spirits
rose again to their normal easy altitude, and mounted beyond that to the level of boyish jollity.
Myself, I incline to think that walking along a bush track, with a long stick in his hand and
a pack-horse to drive before him, was really an ideal situation for Ted, despite his preference
for riding. Afoot, he could so readily step aside to start a 'goanner' up a tree, or pluck
an out-of-the-way growth to show me.

There never was such a fellow for 'noticing' things, as they say of children. Print he never
read, so far as I know, and perhaps this helped to make him so amazingly keen a reader of Nature.
Not the littlest comma on that page ever eluded him.

'Hullo!' he would say when Werrina was miles away behind us. 'Who'd've thought o' that baldy-faced
steer o' Murdoch's bein' out here?' One gazed about to locate the beast. But, no. No living
thing was in sight. In passing, quite casually, Ted's roving eye had spied a hoof mark, perhaps
a day old or more, in the soft bottom of a tiny billabong; a print I could hardly make out,
leave alone identify as having been made by this beast or the other, even under the guidance
of Ted's pointing finger. Yet for Ted that casual glance--no stooping, no close scrutiny--supplied
an accurate and complete picture: the particular beast, its gait, occupation, and way of heading,
and the period at which it had passed that way. Withal, it was true enough, as the storekeeper
said, poor Ted had no 'Systum'; or none, at all events, of the kind cultivated in shops and
offices.

III

However much at fault I may be in recollection of our arrival at Sydney, my memories of our
first night at Livorno Bay (so my father christened the derelict's resting-place) could hardly
be more vivid and distinct. That night marks for me the beginning of a definite epoch in my life.

I passed the spot in a large inter-state steamer last year. There was no sign of any ship there
then, so far, at all events, as I could make out with a borrowed pair of glasses; and the place
looked very much the same as any other part of the Australian coast. There are thousands of
such indentations around the shores of the island continent, with low headlands of jagged rock
by way of horns, and terraces of shell-strewn sand dotted over with ti-tree scrub, which merges
into a low-lying bush of swamp oak and suchlike growths, among which, as like as not, you shall
find, as we found, a more or less extensive salt-water lagoon, over the sandy bar of which
big, tossing breakers will roll in from the Pacific in stormy weather. Yes, I would say now
that there is nothing very peculiar or distinctive about Livorno Bay for the observer who is
familiar with other parts of Australia's coast.

But in my youthful eyes, seen on the evening of our arrival, after a fifteen miles' walk, and,
seen, too, in the glow of a singularly angry-looking evening sky, Livorno Bay, with its derelict
barque to focus one's gaze, presented a spectacle almost terrifying in its desolation. Years
must have passed since anything edible could have been found on board the Livorno. Yet I hardly
think I should exaggerate if I said that two thousand birds rose circling from various points
of vantage about the derelict as we approached her sides. That this winged and highly vocal
congregation resented our intrusion was not to be doubted for a moment. Short of actually attacking
us with beak and claw, the creatures could hardly have given more practical expression to their
sentiments. The circumstance was trivial, of course, but I think it somewhat dashed my father's
ardour, and I know it struck into my very vitals.

'Begone, you interlopers, or we will rend you! This is no place for humans. Here is only death
and desolation for the likes of you. This place belongs of immemorial right to us, and to our
masters, the devouring elements. Begone!'

So it seemed we were screamed at from thousands of hoarse throats.

For my part I was well pleased when my father agreed to Ted's suggestion that we should postpone
till morning our inspection of the ship, and, in the meantime, concentrate upon the more immediate
necessity of pitching camp for the night in the shelter of the timber belt and outside the
domain of the screaming sea-birds. Our tent was fortunately not one of the cumbersome sort
I had seen on Wimbledon Common at home, but a light Australian contrivance of cotton, enclosing
a space ten feet by eight, and protected by a good large fly. Thanks mainly to Ted and his
axe we had the necessary stakes cut, and the tent pitched before dark. Meanwhile, the little
fire Ted had lighted against a blackened tree-stump had grown into the sort of fiery furnace
that was associated in my mind with certain passages in the Old Testament; and, suspended by
a piece of fencing wire from a cross stake on two forked sticks, our billy was boiling vigorously.

In all such bush-craft as this Ted was facile princeps, and he asked no better employment.
Jerry was turned out to graze, belled and hobbled (for safety in a strange place), and just
as actual darkness closed in upon us--no moon was visible that night--we sat down at the mouth
of the tent to sup upon corned beef, bread and cheese and jam; the latter in small tins with
highly coloured paper wrappers.

By this time my sense of chill and depression had pretty well evaporated. The details of our
domesticity were most attractive to me. But I am not sure that my father quite regained his
spirits that evening. We each had a canvas camp-stretcher of the collapsible sort. In ten minutes
Ted had made himself a hammock bed of two sacks, two saplings, and four forked stakes, which
for comfort was quite equal to any camp cot I have yet seen. Sleep came quickly to me, at all
events, and whenever I woke during the night, as I did some three or four times, there was
booming in my ears that rude music which remained the constant accompaniment of all our lives
and doings in Livorno Bay: the dull roar of Pacific breakers on the sand below us, varied by
a long sibilant intaking of breath, as it seemed, caused by the back-wash of every wave's subsidence.

Very gently, to avoid disturbing my father--I can see his face on the flimsy cot pillow now,
looking sadly fragile and worn--I crept out from our tent in time to see the upper edge of
the sun's disc (like a golden dagger of the Moorish shape) flash out its assurance across the
sea, and gild with sudden bravery the trucks and spars and frayed rigging of the barque Livorno.
Life has no other reassurance to offer which is quite so emphatic as that of the new risen
sun; and it is youth, rather than culture, which yields the finest appreciation of this. In
its glad light I ran and laughed, half naked, where a few hours earlier, in the murk of coming
night, the sense of my own helpless insignificance in all that solitude had descended upon
me in the shape of physical fear. Sea and sand laughed with me now, where before they had smitten
me with lonely foreboding, almost with terror. I had my first bathe from a Pacific beach that
morning; and, given just a shade more of venturesomeness in the outsetting, it had been like
to be my last. In Livorno Bay the breakers were big, and the back-wash of their surf very insistent.

The fire of his enthusiasm was once more alight in my father when I got back to our camp that
morning; and one might have supposed it nourished him, if one had judged from the cursory manner
in which his share of our simple breakfast was dispatched. Then, carrying with him a tomahawk,
I remember, he led us down across the sand to where the ship lay, so deeply bedded that one
stepped over her rail as it might have been the coaming of a hatch. Her deck, and indeed every
uncovered part of the Livorno, was encrusted in the droppings of multitudinous sea-fowl. For
almost as many years as I had lived, probably, these creatures had made a home of the derelict.
To be sure, they had as good a right to it as we had; yet I remember how keenly we resented
their claims, in the broad light of day; even as they, on the previous evening, had resented
us. Ted promised them a warm time of it, and congratulated himself on having brought his old gun.

'I'll show 'em whose ship it is,' he said, 'to-night.' And the boy in me rose in sympathetic
response. I suppose I looked forward to the prospect of those birds being given a taste of
the fear they had helped to inspire in me.

The Livorno had a long, low poop, no more than three feet high, and extending forward to the
mainmast. She had none of the Ariadne's bright-work, as the polished teak was always called
on that ship. Her rails and deck-houses had been painted in green and white, and I made out
the remains of stencilled ornamentation in the corners of panels. No doubt my father had his
preconceptions regarding the derelict of which he had thought so much in the past week. In
any case he did not linger by the way, but walked direct to the cuddy or saloon, which we entered
by a deeply encrusted, sun-cracked scuttle, just forward of the mizzen-mast. So here we were,
at length, at the heart of our quest. Let them wrapped in the veil of discreet
incognito, and we hear Fernandez, overflowing of his own being, because of the exorbitant swelling
of his proud joy, was telling what he had heard, while dressing their stories with salt and pepper
hyperbole.

- For in Sicily - said - in Andalusia ... and you know where is Andalusia, as if ... were, in
Cadiz, then. They say the Board of Seville has assembled a great army with troops at San Roque. Do
you know what that is San Roque?

It is as it were ...; you pose here is Gibraltar, as is San Roque
near here.

- The D. Santiago knows everything.

- Yeah, like who
has seen many lands and has been in many battles.

- In San Roque
are the best troops of Spain, both artillery and infantry as horses,
so that if we form this army, and comes on Madrid ... Jesus!

- Jesus!
- Repeated a choir of ten voices.

- Do you think that will come about
Madrid? - Asked one of the attendants.

- That's what I can not say
- said with emphasis on the Great Captain -.

But what I understand, and the experience I acquired in those terrible
wars, I dare say that the Andalusia army comes upon Madrid, and if
you do the same that of D. Gregorio de la Cuesta, you judge the shock
that will pass the French.

We must keep the secret very carefully, gentlemen, and you girls, beware of going very well
telling these things when they go to sewing, because it can reach
the ears of the Grand Duke of Berg ... I think the following things
happen: Andalusia's army will come to the Channel, the French will
to beat them, leaving free Madrid, where you will enter D. Gregorio
de la Cuesta, which, if followed to the south, they sting the rear
by Tarancón, and at the same time as there will take you back was
the Tagus, seeing the French attacked by either side, by force will
have to fall the river, where they will drown.

- How you know this
man!

It is a wonder that in this way can advertise movements the enemy.

And no doubt: this has to happen.

- And how the uprising is general - said Fernandez - can not go everywhere. In addition, can
not have a single Spanish soldier to help them, because every drop, so that if Napoleon wants
to continue the war in Spain, you can send people.

- And as for those who come, half die of drinking ...

- The same Murat is experiencing some cramping, which will take you to another world.

- Quia!, If you have is a shameful disease.

- That which has been paid. Well, what can that be but God's punishment for their barbarism
and cruelty?

- No, ma'am, is that they say, is fond of drink.

- Turkish Menudas will have taken since being here!

So go away, or will not go away?

- I think so - said Fernandez -. I have understood that it is very upset because Napoleon does
not want to become king of Spain.

- Angelito!, Since it requires
very little to say.

- And as it seems that rule of king of Naples
it is a D. Joseph, whom they say also likes that ...

- Is known to
be fans of the family.

- What you should do Mr. Fernandez - lumbermen
said - is to go to any of these armies, had no doubt where to look,
and who knows if we would make general overnight.

- I'm no good -
said the Great Captain -.

I had my time, and now working other and work of that time.

Those were wars, gentlemen!

This now is silly, and if not, you'll see how at the drop of a rooster is all finished.

- But the army of Andalusia, is it true, or is it pure conjecture
to you?

Whether we realize it at once.

- It is true, gentlemen.

I think Santiago Fernandez has reason to know what makes an army that does not do. When our generals
begin to say "Over here you I ', and I will put you in the know, day by day.

At this point came when he entered Santorcaz, and as soon as he saw the honest people formed
the audience of good Fernández, began to march in a bad mood, because
flamasón presence of that was quite nasty to everyone in the house.

-
Great news, great news I bring, Mr. D. Gonzalo Fernandez de Cordova
- exclaimed from the door -.

Aguárdense all, if you want to know the pure truth. But will these
girls? Why what I fear?

And you, D. Roque not want to hear? ... Be poor chance, then, and you It's their loss, for
they know not what happens ... The spear, Mr. Fernandez, take you to the point lance, and prepare
to fight, because it is about huge, and now see who are good patriots
and who are not.

- Do not take a joke these serious things, Mr. D.
Luis - said something which we can call piqued Cerignola winner -
or offends us to the neighborhood with their gestures.

- Do not you
know what I know? - Added Santorcaz -.

Do not you know that the general Dupont, who was in Toledo, has been ordered to go to Andalusia,
which comes out tomorrow Moncey from here to Valencia, and Lefebvre, who is in Pamplona, ​​will
soon on the capital Aragon, which will extend Duhesme Catalonia,
and down to Valladolid Bessières all hurry with the divisions of Lasalle
and Merle?

- How do we know that you spit in a circle with the rabble!

And how are their grants of stomach? Are made to order wine from Spain? And the Grand Duke of Berg,
how's your fever? Is there funk? Because I have to me that if these gentlemen are falling pants
is because, as the other, which liveth ill, the fear remains. I really did not know what you just
said, but back in the office I heard other stuff I do not know if it will sound While the ears
of the rabble. Why will not my Mr D. Luis to count, to see if taste the annealing is removed?

- What news are these?

- Nothing, not much. When the French know them, you see how happy she gets ... That all cities
have appointed or will appoint boards, which will ignore what is sent in Bayonne, but ...

- But if Ferdinand is no longer king of Spain, because it has assigned its rights to the Emperor
as well as Charles IV.

What are these boards more than gangs of insurgents?

- Yes ... that removed because it is easy. Together Demons! And the very simple being formed armies
... plaything, lord of Santorcaz, four cats that were there on the field San Roque with a few
Cañoncillo ... And they have given in arming the peasants, the Castilla same as in Catalonia and
in Valencia and Andalusia ... But that is worthless are men and icing sugar paste, and I say
no bullets, with salivary destroy the French.

- What do you know
everything comes down to the Junta of Seville is forming an army San
Roque troops, who commands Brown, and Granada, which are orders Reding?

Well, that knows everything Madrid.

- Mira, Fernandez - Dona Gregoria
said informally - you are wrong to reveal what you know as good a
conduit, because I am not dull to know that what our army does not
be said.

And if not, for instance: if you, you're aware of everything, because of your great tino for war,
you discover what the army of Andalusia and reaches the ears of French can take advantage
of the news, and then ...

- That must be seized, woman, or what do you know about these things!

On the contrary, I want that Mr. de Santorcaz go with the story. And also in Castilla ...

- Another army, yes, Guards Corps compound, used to make war on palaces, students, rednecks
and smugglers - Santorcaz said, giving respite to the jokes and talking with complete seriousness
-. It is a disgrace for us to have to confess we can not beat us
with the French.

So what if many civilians are armed, if those unruly mobs, rather than help, the element of ruin
for the small army Spanish? What obstacles can offer to those who have had these unfortunate whole
Europe hallucinated, who deceives his ignorance?

Do you have any idea what they mean forecast, tactics, the genius of a chief expert to decide
the victory? It is sad thing to have come to that end by the blunders of our kings, but once
here, no choice but submit to what Providence has sought to make us. Spain can not resist invasion,
because if would resist a miracle, a supernatural feat ever. Condemned Napoleon and to be seen sitting
on his throne to a king of the imperial family, the most sane is
resigned to it with the consciousness of having deserved.

- Spain
should be French, that Spain will of Napoleon! - Said the Grand Master,
on in violent anger -.

Mr. de Santorcaz, you are an insolent, you're a foul-mouthed, you has no respect for my gray
hair. Ya, what can you expect from a shyster skull, as you, who abandoned
his family extranjis going to learn bad habits?

To say that Spain must be French! Get out of my house, and do not put more boots on it. What
do you think, Gregoria? Woman, you're with that calm and no anger buffa like me?

And rising from his seat, told Santorcaz majestic gesture with the door of the room; more like
D. Luis did not have humor to leave, because every day the same scene was repeated to no avail,
getting ready to eat quietly, letting it fade away, as effectively vanished, without bloodshed,
the wrath of his honorable friend. During the D. growled a little food Santiago, but prudence
and discretion of his wife avoided a collision could have had dire consequences.

IV

What I had passed on May 20, if memory serves me. I was moving slowly in my convalescence, and
in a few days and I found myself strong enough to stand up and give
some great walks through the corridors of the house because the house
of the Great Captain was to only release the long corridor, whose
walls were opened up twenty doors numbered hostels in many families.

Worse than my body was my soul, full of troubles, of apprehension and anguish, so sorry for terrible
memories as distressing presumptions so, my thoughts ran to the past to the future, alternatively,
seeking in vain for a little peace.

The death of the priest in Aranjuez, still forming in my soul a great void, I was less sensitive
than might appear at first sight, because I like traffic conceptualizing
he had brought a new saint to the phalanges of Paradise, I considered
my friend in the true place, and not far from us that if he could
forsake invocábamos.

As for Agnes, did not doubt that someone was in power to protect it on behalf of the relatives
of his mother, and although this belief had no information that the relationship Juan de Dios
amazed, I confirmed it growing, based on background I miss my readers for being known, and the sordid
greed of licensed Lobo, character highly paid to seize the girl and
deliver, through a good reward, who wanted to possess.

All my desire was to hard reset to go out and when I got it, I had the pleasure of letting
me know all my friends as a true resurrection, or soul of another world is back with a body
to collect arrears.

You have no idea of ​​the aspect then offered Madrid if they do not tell people walked all flustered
and distracted, sometimes fearful, sometimes making efforts to conceal joy. The French hate
the hatred was not: it was a fanaticism that I have not met after
no example, a feeling that occupied the whole hearts by leaving room
for other one, so that's like the love, the love itself, and even
dare I say to love God, adapted and subjected to secondary phenomena
great abhorrence inspired the executioners of the people of Madrid.

To these alone were seen everywhere: his presence made to stop or speed transients, and this deviation
was so extraordinary that even seemed concerned themselves of deep
regret and watching them morose and sullen, feeling that the ground
will burn the soles of the feet.

Had filled trenches and batteries Retirement, and to see at all his pride and presumption of
the invaders, there was nothing to lead the ride to the East, and are found in large groups
around the bars, or strolling along the road of Aragon. No Spanish was heading there, unless
the rogues, who, then as now, liked to poke its nose everywhere. Led to my curiosity, I approached
Retreat, and also toured other sites to the south, also busy positions advantageous.

Madrid inside the shops were deserted, as everyone gathered to request or report news gathered
in hidden places, is worthy of note that even then began to give its first signs of life the secret
societies, though I did not see any, I say this only with reference
to vague rumors.

As the desire for news on the lifting of the provinces was a fever that were not exempt or
children or the elderly, or women, when it was known that D. John Doe had received a letter Andalusia,
Galicia and Catalonia, the house was filled with friends, even strangers is allowed to loudly invade
not wait to tell them the big event. Sacábanse copies of letters that spoke of the Board of Seville
and the uprising of the troops San Roque, and those copies circulated with a rapidity that would
envy the modern Press periodically.

Every day and every hour there was talk of the officers who had fled Madrid join armies or Blake
Cuesta, and when faced with a military or a young countryman of good size and vigor, is not
it to another question: "Do you when are you going? "The families of the victims had forgotten
to pray for the dead, and thought to equip the living. Shortage of laborers and artisans, because
of the slums departing daily many men to swell the items and Mancha Toledo, and despite the
brutal side of the French General, and missing weapons in the houses, and the fugitives departed
empty-handed.

The invaders, who watched the hatred of the fearful suspicion capital which has suffered its devastating
effects, not allowed, being so great in number and strength, which
is manifested what the locals thought and felt, but even so, how many
songs, many jácaras, romances and tenths suddenly sprang the popular
vein, and threatening to resentment, and Zahir with spicy jokes that
no one knows but by the abusive name of the scoundrel!

At the bottom of this great upheaval, among many misgivings, had a secret joy, for as day after
day came news of new surveys, all the French thought and placed on the verge of embarrassing
retreat. That joy, that confidence, that blind faith in the superiority of the heterogeneous
and discordant popular forces that wait provided, that not believing in defeat, that no matter
who cured the collapse, were Because of the definitive victory in such a long war, and it may
be said that the strategy, strength and tactics, which are human things can not and may never anything
against the enthusiasm that is divine.

As was natural, news, the survey was wildly exaggerated, and the popular
delusions saw thousands of men where there were only hundreds.

When the news came from Bayonne were subjected to systematic contempt, and the provisions
of the palace of Marras, as well as Cortes ridiculous call in the city of Adour, and the lawsuit
tribute to some great tributes to Bonaparte, gave fuel to bloody satire. When some said that
Madrid king would come from Napoleon's brother, was standing for the most ingenious improvisations
the epigrammatic genre.

All gatherings, which then was great, because society is not yet spilled cafes, were, shall we
say, real clubs where deaf and terrible beating conspiracy national.

It conspired with desire, with the news, with suspicion, with hyperbole, with satire, with truth
and lies, with weeping tribute to the dead and prayers for the triumph of the living.

V

This was Madrid in late May 1808, before the first cannon shots sounded Cabezón and the first shots
of the Bruch. Having said this, let me talk a little about myself, basis for that misfortune is always
echo throughout discreet and sensitive person, I think I'm not sack of straw in the eyes of
my readers, and that some interest will inspire painful trances of my stormy life. I need to
also explain why I started my causes Trip to Andalucia in May and June, and if all of a sudden
I submit Despeñaperros way in Santorcaz unknown company, you would be correct not to explain
the motives or journey so dangerous, nor my sudden accommodation with this singular man.

It is therefore the case that, not satisfied with the news about Agnes gave me Juan de Dios, I tried
to find the truth and had the happy idea, rather, the inspiration, to appear home of the Marquise,
who did not find, but Divine Providence wanted a servant, known mine from the famous night of
the performance, came out to meet me, and after show very obsequious, satisfy my curiosity
on that point. As I said, the same day 3 May there appeared a man with green goggles, which
led within a litter at a tearful young and seemingly ill. Not finding the woman, asked by his brother,
with which he had to confer more than two hours.

After bye, leaving the madamita at home.

The brother of Mrs. Marquise, who was none other than that holiday diplomat who met in October
1807, started the day 4 to Cordoba to join his sister and niece, and anything weird! - server told
me that strange - it took the young girl.

- "So that now are all
in Córdoba? - I asked.

- Yes, and according to reports, believe not
come until these things are gone.

That of Miss brought in the litter has been much talk to the servants,
and my wife says ... but better shut up.

The man one of the green goggles had been some days here and sometimes Ms. Condesa, other aunt,
received him. Bad man looks.

- What did the young resistance when they tried to take it?

- If you looked dead, what resistance could I do? As we had to load two to put in the car ...

I do not know if what I heard and mean time draw the attention of
my readers, but what yes they have to cause surprise, what I say surprise,
big surprise, is knowing that I dared to defy the wrath of the Wolf
degree, the same Wolf of yore, not hesitating to risk it all to clarify
what disturbed me so deeply.

Not wanting to appear even in shadow by Sal hated street, I sought back in the Mayor's House
and Court, where with I thought surely find him, and to the point where I was ... No, not credible,
they will not you to believe. I need to swear? Well, I swear, I swear it's true. Well at first I
saw, Echomen arms around his neck, showing great interest in me, and not only asked me news about
my health, but tell him he asked me some details my squad and for him miraculous resurrection.

I
remained stunned, but not quiet so unusual softness assuming that would work its elegant cunning
and preparation of a new coup against me, but when I asked him the state in which the process was
famous, he replied that no one thought such a thing because as the French were friends of the
Prince of Peace, not desirable to disturb the servers and friends
of the latter.

- No I - said - that His Highness the Grand Duke amosque.

That was a joke, and Having A on, the point would have been released. But say, rogue ... "So you
were handsome Ms Agnes? Tell me everything: where you met? Ah, well understood that kept Requejo
treasure in your home

!

But I must remember, too, that I bit back the question, and, ignorant of all detail though
I was, felt intuitively sure, first, that the whole subject was a sore and difficult one for
my father, and, secondly, that I must never ask for or expect anything calling for monetary
expenditure. My vague feeling was that the World had somehow wronged my father by not providing
him with more money. I felt instinctively that It never would give him any more; and that It
had given him whatever he had, only as the result of personal sacrifices which should never
have been demanded of him. I resented keenly what seemed to me the World's callous and unreasonable
discourtesy to such a man as my father, whom, I thought, It should have delighted to honour.

As illustrating the World's coarse and brutal injustice, I thought, there was the case of a
man like Nelly Fane's father, or, again, the storekeeper in Werrina. (Mr. Fane would hardly
have thanked me for the conjunction.) Neither, it was clear, possessed a tithe of the brains,
the distinction, the culture, or the charm of my father; yet it was equally obvious (in different
ways) that both were a good deal more liberally endowed with this world's gear than we were.
I felt that the whole matter ought to be properly explained and made clear to those powers,
whoever they were, who controlled and ordered It. I distinctly remember the thought taking
shape in my mind that Mr. Disraeli ought to know about it! Meantime, my concern was, as far
as might be, to relieve my father of anxiety, and so minimise as much as possible the effects
of a palpable miscarriage of justice.

The thing has a rather absurd and pompous effect as I set it down on paper; but I have stated
it truly, none the less, however awkwardly.

The fact that I had known no mother, combined with the progressive weakening of my father's
health and peace of mind during the previous year or so, may probably have influenced my attitude
in all such matters, may have given a partly feminine quality to my affection for my father.
I know it seemed to me unfitting that he should ever take any part in our domestic work on
the Livorno, and very natural that I should attend to all such matters. Also I had felt, ever
since the day in Richmond Park when, to some extent, he gave me his confidence regarding the
severance of his connection with the London newspaper office, that my father needed 'looking
after,' that it was desirable for him to be taken care of and spared as much as possible; and
that, obviously, I was the person to see to it. Our departure from England had been rather
a pleasure than otherwise for me, because it had seemed to place my father more completely
in my hands. Such an attitude may or may not have been natural and desirable in so young a
boy; I only know that it was mine at that time.

It follows therefore that I told my father we could perfectly well manage without Ted, though,
as a fact, I viewed the prospect, not with misgiving so much as with very real regret. I had
grown to like Ted very well in the few months he had spent with us, and to this day I am gratefully
conscious of the practical use and value of many lessons learned from this simple teacher,
who was so notably wanting, by the Werrina storekeeper's way of it, in 'Systum.' A more uniformly
kindly fellow I do not think I have ever met. The world would probably pronounce him an idler,
and it is certain he would never have accumulated money; but he was not really idle. On the
contrary, he was full of activity, and of simple, kindly enthusiasms. Rut his chosen forms
of activity rarely led him to the production of what is marketable, and he very quickly wearied
of any set routine.

'Spare me days!' Ted cried, when my father, with some circumlocutionary hesitancy and great
delicacy, conveyed his decision to our factotum. 'Don't let the bit o' money worry ye, Mr.
Freydon. It's little I do, anyway. Give me an odd shilling or two for me 'baccy an' that, when
I go into Werrina, an' I'll want no wages. What's the use o' wages to the likes o' me, anyhow?'

I could see that this put my father in something of a quandary. A certain delicacy made it
difficult for him to mention the matter of Ted's food--the good fellow had a royal appetite--and
he did not want to appear unfriendly to a man who simply was not cognisant of any such things
as social distinctions or obligations. Finally, and with less than his customary ease, my father
did manage to make it plain that his decision, however much he might regret being forced to
it, was final; and that he could not possibly permit Ted's proposed gratuitous sacrifice of
his time and abilities.

'There's the future to be thought of, you know, Ted,' he added. (For how many years has that
word 'future' stood for anxiety, gloom, depression, and worry?) 'Such a capable fellow as you
are should be earning good pay, and, if you don't need it now, banking it against the day when
you will want it.' (My father was on firmer ground now, and a characteristic smile began to
lighten his eyes and voice, besides showing upon his expressive mouth. I am not sure that I
ever heard him laugh outright; but his chuckle was a choice incentive to merriment, and he
had a smile of exceptional sweetness.) 'There'll be a Mrs. Ted presently, you know, and how
should I ever win her friendship, as I hope to, if she knew I had helped to prevent her lord
and master from getting together the price of a home? No, no, Ted; we can't let you do that.
But if anything I can say or write will help you to a place worth having, I'm very much at
your service; and if you will come and pay us a visit whenever you feel like sparing a Sunday
or holiday, we shall both take it kindly in you, and Nick here will bless you for it, won't
you, Nick?'

I agreed in all sincerity, and so the matter was decided. But Ted positively insisted on being
allowed to stay one further week with us, without pay, in order, he said, 'to finish my mate's
eddication as a bushman.' 'My mate,' of course, was myself. In the Old World such freedom of
speech would perhaps indicate disrespect, and would almost certainly be resented as such. But
we had learned something of Australian ways by this time; and if my father's eyebrows may have
risen ever so slightly at that word 'mate,' I was frankly pleased and flattered by it. Then,
as now, I could appreciate as a compliment the inclination of such a good fellow to give me
so friendly a title; and yet I fear me no genuine democrat would admit that I had any claim
to be regarded as a disciple of his cult!

His mind deliberately bent on conveying instruction, Ted proved rather a poor teacher. In that
rôle he was the least thing tiresome, and given to enlargement upon unessentials, while overlooking
the things that matter. Unconsciously he had taught me much; in his teaching week he rather
fretted me. But, all the same, I was sorry when the end of it arrived. We had arranged for
him to drive with me to the point at which our track crossed a main road, where we should meet
the storekeeper's cart. There would be stores for me to bring back, and Ted would finish his
journey with the storekeeper's man. Ted insisted on making me a present of his own special
axe, which he treated and regarded as some men will treat a pet razor. He had taught me to
use and keep it fairly well. I gave him my big horn-handled knife, which was quite a tool-kit
in itself; and my father gave him a hunting-crop to which he had taken a desperate fancy.

The storekeeper's man witnessed our parting, and that kept me on my dignity; but when the pair
of them were out of sight, I felt I had lost a friend, and had many cares upon my shoulders.
Driving back alone through the bush with our stores, I made some fine resolutions. I was now
in my twelfth year, and very nearly a man, I told myself. It would be my business to keep our
home in order, to take particularly good care of my father, and to see that he was as comfortable
as I could make him. Certainly, I was a very serious-minded youngster; and it did not make
me less serious to find when I got back to the Livorno that my father was lying in his bunk
in some pain, and, as I knew at first glance, very much depressed. He had strained or hurt
himself in some way in cutting firewood.

'You oughtn't to have done it, you know, father,' I remember saying, very much as a nurse or
parent might have said it. 'We've plenty stacked in the main hatch, and you know the wood's
my job.'

He smiled sadly. 'I'm not quite sure that there's any work here that doesn't seem to be your
"job," old fellow,' he said. 'At least, if any of it's mine, it must be a kind that's sadly
neglected.'

'Well, but, father, you have more important things; you have your writing. The little outside
jobs are mine, of course. I've learned it all from Ted. You really must trust me for that, father.'

'Ah, well, you're a good lad, Nick; and we must see if I cannot set to seriously in the matter
of doing some of this writing you talk of. It's high time; and it may be easier now we are
alone. No, I don't think I'll get up to supper this evening, Nick. I'm not very well, to tell
the truth, and a quiet night's rest here will be best for me.'

We had a few fowls then in a little bush run, and I presently had a new-laid egg beaten up
for my patient. This he took to oblige me; but his 'quiet night's rest' did not amount to much,
for each time I waked through the night I knew, either by the light burning beside him, or
by some slight movement he made, that my father was awake.

VI

In this completely solitary way we lived for some eight months after Ted left us. There were
times when my father seemed cheery and in much better health. In such periods he would concern
himself a good deal in the matter of my education.

'It may never be so valuable to you as Ted's "eddication,"' he said; 'but a gentleman should
have some acquaintance with the classics, Nick, both in our tongue (the nobility of which is
not near so well understood as it might be) and in the tongues of the ancients.'

Once he said: 'We have lived our own Odyssey, old fellow, without writing it; but I'd like
you to be able to read Homer's.'

As a fact, I never have got so far as to read it with any comfort in the original; and I suppose
a practical educationalist would say that such fitful, desultory instruction as I did receive
from my father in our cuddy living-room on board the Livorno was quite valueless. But I fancy
the expert would be wrong in this, as experts sometimes are. In the schoolman's sense I learned
little or nothing. But natheless I believe these hours spent with my father among his books,
and yet more, it may be, other hours spent with him when he had no thought of teaching me,
had their very real value in the process of my mental development. If they did not give me
much of actual knowledge, they helped to give me a mind of sorts, an inclination or bent toward
those directions in which intellectual culture is obtainable. Else, surely, I had remained
all my days a hewer of wood and a drawer of water--with more of health in mind and body and
means, perhaps, than are mine to-day! Well, yes; and that, too, is likely enough. At all events
I choose to thank my father for the fact that at no period of my life have I cared to waste
time over mere vapid trash, whether spoken or printed.

Outside his own personal feelings and mental processes, the which he never discussed with me,
there was no set of subjects, I think, that my father excluded from the range of our conversations.
Indeed, I think that in those last months of our life on the Livorno, he talked pretty much
as freely with me, and as variously, as he would have talked with any friend of his own age.
In the periods when we were not together, he would be sitting at the saloon table, with paper
and pens before him, or pacing the seaward side of the poop, or lying resting in his bunk,
or on the deck. Frequent rest became increasingly necessary for him. His strength seemed to
fade out from him with the mere effluxion of time. He often spoke to me of the curious effects
upon men's minds of the illusions we call nostalgia. But he allowed no personal bearing to
his remarks, and never hinted that he regretted leaving England, or wished to return there.

Physically speaking, I doubt if any life could be much healthier than ours was on the Livorno.
Dress, for each of us alike, consisted of two garments only, shirt and trousers. Unless when
going inland for some reason, we went always barefoot. Of what use could shoes be on the Livorno's
decks--washed down with salt water every day--or the white sands of the bay. Our dietary, though
somewhat monotonous, was quite wholesome. We lacked other vegetables, but grew potatoes, pumpkins,
and melons in plenty. Fresh fish we ate most days, and butcher's meat perhaps twice or thrice
a week. Purer air than that we breathed and lived in no sanatorium could furnish, and the hours
we kept were those of the nursery; though, unfortunately, bed-time by no means always meant
sleeping-time for my father.

Withal, even my inexperience did not prevent my realisation of the sinking, fading process
at work in my father. Its end I did not foresee. It would have gone hard with me indeed to
have been consciously facing that. But I was sadly enough conscious of the process; and a competent
housewife would have found humorous pathos, no doubt, in my efforts, by culinary means, to
counteract this. My father's appetite was capricious, and never vigorous. There was a considerable
period in which I am sure quite half my waking hours (not to mention dream fancies and half
waking meditations in bed) were devoted to thinking out and preparing special little dishes
from the limited range of food-stuffs at my command.

'A s'prise for you this morning, father,' I would say, as I led the way, proudly, to our dining-table,
or, in one of his bad times, arrived at his bunk-side, carrying the carefully pared sheet of
stringy bark which served us for a tray. There would be elaborate uncoverings on my side, and
sniffs of pretended eagerness from my father; and, thanks to the unvarying kindliness and courtesy
of his nature, I dare say my poor efforts really were of some value, because full many a time
I am sure they led to his eating when, but for consideration of my feelings, he had gone unnourished,
and so aggravated his growing weakness.

'God bless my soul, Nick,' he would say, after a taste of my latest concoction; 'what would
they not give to have you at the Langham, or Simpson's? I believe you are going to be a second
Soyer, and control the destinies of empires from a palace kitchen. Bush cooking, forsooth!
Why this--this latest triumph is nectar--ambrosial stuff, Nick--more good, hearty body in it
than any wines the gods ever quaffed. You'll see, I shall begin forthwith to lay on fat, like
a Christmas turkey.'

My father could not always rise to such flights, of course; but many and many a time he took
a meal he would otherwise have lacked, solely to gratify his small cook.

There came a time when my father passed the whole of every morning in bed, and, later, a time
when he left his bunk for no more than an hour or two each afternoon. The thought of seeking
a doctor's help never occurred to me, and my father never mentioned it. I suppose we had grown
used to relying upon ourselves, to ignoring the resources of civilisation, which, indeed, for
my part, I had almost forgotten. Not often, I fancy, in modern days has a boy of eleven or
twelve years passed through so strange an experience, or known isolation more complete.

The climax of it all dates in my memory from an evening upon which I returned with Jerry from
a journey to the road (for stores) to find my father lying unconscious beside the saloon table,
where his paper and pens were spread upon a blotting-pad. Fear had my very heart in his cold
grip that night. There was, no doubt, a certain grotesqueness, due to ignorance, about many
of my actions. In some book (of Fielding's belike) I had read of burnt feathers in connection
with emotional young ladies' fainting fits. So now, like a frightened stag, I flew across the
sand to our fowl run, and snatched a bunch of feathers from the first astonished rooster my
hand fell upon. A few seconds later, these were smoking in a candle flame, and thence to my
father's nostrils. To my ignorant eyes he showed no sign of life whatever, but none the less--again
inspired by books--I fell now to chafing his thin hands. And then to the feathers again. Then
back to the hands. Lack of thought preserved me from the customary error of attempting to raise
the patient's head; but no doubt my ignorance prevented my being of much real service, though
every nerve in me strained to the desire.

My father's recovery of robust health, or my own sudden acquisition of a princely fortune,
could hardly have brought a deeper thrill of gladness and relief than that which came to me
with the first flutter of the veined, dark eye-lids upon which my gaze was fastened. A few
moments later, and he recognised me; another few minutes, and, leaning shakily on my shoulder,
he reached the side of his bunk. When his head touched the pillow, he gave me a wan smile,
and-- 'So you see you can't trust me to keep house even for one afternoon, Nick,' he said.

This almost unbalanced me, and only an exaggerated sense of responsibility as nurse and housekeeper
kept back the tears that were pricking like ten thousand needles at my eyes. Savagely I reproached
myself for having been away, and for having no foreknowledge of the coming blow. In one of
his bags my father had a flask of brandy, and, guided by his directions, I unearthed this and
administered a little to the patient. Promising that I would look in every few minutes, I hurried
off then to relight the galley fire and prepare something for supper.

Later in the evening my father became brighter than he had been for weeks, and, child-like,
I soon exchanged my fears for hopes. And then it was, just as I was turning in, that, speaking
in quite a cheery tone, my father said:

'I haven't taken half thought enough for you, Nick boy; and yet you've set me the best possible
kind of example. It's easy to laugh at the simple folks' way of talking about "if anything
happens" to one. But the idea's all right, and ought not to be lost sight of. Well then, Nick,
if "anything" should "happen" to me, at any time, I want you to harness up Jerry and drive
straight away into Werrina, with the two letters that I left on the cuddy table. One is for
the doctor there--deliver that first--and the other is for a Roman Catholic priest, Father
O'Malley; deliver that next. It is important, and must not be lost, for there's money in it.
I wish it were more--I wish it were. Bring them here now, Nick.'

I brought the letters, and they were placed under a weight on the little shelf over my father's
head.

'Don't forget what I said, Nick; and do it--exactly, old fellow. And now, let us forget all
about it. That gruel, or whatever it was you gave me just now, has made me feel so comfortable
that I'm going to have a beautiful sleep, and wake up as fit as a fiddle to-morrow. Give me
your hand, boy. There--good-night! God bless you!'

He turned on his shoulder, perhaps to avoid seeing my tears, and again, perhaps, I have thought,
to avoid my seeing the coming of tears in his own eyes. He had kissed my forehead, and I could
not remember ever being kissed by him before. For, as long as my memory carried me, our habit
had been to shake hands, like two men....

I find an unexpected difficulty in setting down the details of an experience which, upon the
whole, produced a deeper impression on me, I think, than any other event in my life. When all
is said, can any useful purpose be served by observing at this stage of my task a particularity
which would be exceedingly depressing to me? I think not. There is assuredly no need for me,
of all people, to court melancholy. I think that, without great fullness at this point in my
record, I can gauge pretty accurately the value as a factor in my growth of this particular
experience, and so I will be very brief.

On the fifth evening after that of the attack which left him unconscious on the saloon deck,
my father died, very peacefully, and, I believe, quite painlessly. He spoke to me, and with
a smile, only a few minutes before he drew his last breath.

'I'm going, Nick--going--to rest, boy. Don't cry, Nick. Best son.... God bless....'

Those were the last words he spoke. For two hours or more before that time, he had lain with
eyes closed, breathing lightly, perhaps asleep, certainly unconscious. Now he was dead. I was
under no sort of illusion about that. Something which had been hanging cold as ice over my
heart all day had fallen now, like an axe-blade, and split my heart in twain. So I felt. There
was the gentle suggestion of a smile still about the dead lips, but something terrible had
happened to my father's eyes. I know now that mere muscular contraction was accountable for
this, and not, as it seemed, sudden terror or pain. But the effect of that contraction upon
my lonely mind! ...

Well, I had two things to do, and with teeth set hard in my lower lip I set to work to do them.
With shaking hands I closed my father's eyelids and drew the sheet over his face. Then I took
the two letters from the shelf and thrust them in the breast of my shirt.

Walking stiffly--it seemed to me very necessary that I should keep all my muscles quite rigid--I
left the ship, harnessed Jerry, and drove off into the darkling bush towards Werrina. The sun
had disappeared before I left my father's side, and the track to Werrina was fifteen miles
long. A strange drive, and a queer little numbed driver, creaking along through the ghostly
bush, exactly as a somnambulist might, the most of his faculties in abeyance. Three words kept
shaping themselves in my mind, I know, and then fading out again, like shadows. They never
were spoken. My lips did not move, I think, all through the long, slow night drive. The three
words were:

'Father is dead.'

YOUTH--AUSTRALIA

I

We wore no uniform at St. Peter's Orphanage, but there were plenty of other reminders to keep
us conscious that we were inmates of an institution, and what is called a charitable institution
at that. At all events I, personally, was reminded of it often enough; but I would not say
that the majority of the boys thought much of the point. My upbringing, so far, had not been
a good training for institutional life. And then, again, my ignorance of the Roman Catholic
religion was complete. I had not been particularly well posted perhaps regarding the church
of my fathers--the Church of England; but I had never set foot in a Roman Catholic place of
worship, nor set eyes upon an image of the Virgin. Occasionally, my father had gone with me
to church in London; but, as a rule, the companion of my devotions had been a servant. And
in Australia neither my father nor I had visited any church.

I gathered gradually that my father had once met and chatted with Father O'Malley for a few
minutes in Werrina, learning in that time of the reverend father's supervisory connection with
St. Peter's Orphanage at Myall Creek, eleven miles down the coast. It is easy now to understand
how, pondering sadly over the question of what should become of me when 'anything happened'
to him, my father had seized upon the idea of this Orphanage, the only institute of its kind
within a hundred miles. He had never seen the place, and knew nothing of it. But what choice
had he?

And so I became a duly registered orphan, and an inmate of St. Peter's. The letter I took to
Father O'Malley contained, in bank-notes, all the money of which my father died possessed.
To this day I do not know what the amount was, save that it was more than one hundred pounds,
and, almost certainly, under three hundred pounds. The letter made a gift of this money to
the Orphanage, I believe, on the understanding that the Orphanage took me in and cared for
me. It also, I understood, authorised Father O'Malley to sell for the benefit of the Orphanage
all my father's belongings on board the Livorno, with the exception of the books and papers,
which were to be held in trust for me, and handed over to me when I left the institution. Knowing
nobody in the district, I do not see that my father could with advantage have taken any other
course than the one he chose; and I am very sure that he believed he was doing the best that
could be done for me in the circumstances.

Like every other habitation in that countryside, the Orphanage was a wooden structure: hardwood
weatherboard walls and galvanised iron roof. But, unlike a good many others, it was well and
truly built, with a view to long life. It stood three feet above the ground upon piers of stone,
each of which had a mushroom-shaped cap of iron, to check, as far as might be, the onslaught
of the white ant, that destructive pest of coastal Australia and enemy of all who live in wooden
houses. Also, it was kept well painted, and cared for in every way, as few buildings in that
district were. In Australia generally, even in those days, labour was a somewhat costly commodity.
At the Orphanage it was the one thing used without stint, for it cost nothing at all.

As I was being driven to the Orphanage in Father O'Malley's sulky, behind his famous trotting
mare Jinny, I hazarded upon a note of interrogation the remark that my father would be buried.

'Surely, surely, my boy; I expect he will be buried at Werrina to-morrow.'

This was on the morning after my delivery of the letters in Werrina. I had spent the night
in Father O'Malley's house. Somehow, I conveyed the suggestion that I wanted to attend that
burying. The priest nodded amiably.

'Aye,' he said; 'we'll see about it, we'll see about it, presently. But just now you're going
to a beautiful house at Myall Creek--St. Peter's. And, if ye're a real good lad, ye'll be let
stay there, an' get a fine education, an' all--if ye're a good lad. Y'r poor father asked this
for ye, like a wise man; and if we can get ut for ye, the sisters will make a man of ye in
no time--if ye're a good lad.'

'Yes, sir,' I replied meekly; and, so far as I remember, spake no other word while seated in
that swiftly drawn sulky. I learned afterwards that the reverend father was not only a good
judge of horse-flesh, but a famous hand at a horse deal, just as he was a notably shrewd man
of business, and good at a bargain of any kind. So I fancy was every one connected with the
Orphanage.

I did not, as a fact, attend my father's funeral, nor was I ever again as far from Myall Creek
as Werrina during the whole of my term at the Orphanage.

There were fifty-nine 'inmates,' as distinguished from other residents there, when my name
was entered on the books of St. Peter's Orphanage. So I brought the ranks of the orphans up
to sixty. The whole institution was managed by a Sister-in-charge and three other sisters:
Sister Agatha, Sister Mary, and Sister Catharine. No doubt the Sister-in-charge had a name,
but one never heard it. She was always spoken of as 'Sister-in-charge.' There was no male member
of the staff except Tim the boatman; and he was hardly like a man, in the ordinary worldly
sense, since he was an old orphan, and had been brought up at St. Peter's. He played an important
part in the life of the place, because, in a way, he and his punt formed the bridge connecting
us with the rest of the world.

St. Peter's stood on a small island, under three hundred acres in area, at the mouth of the
Myall Creek, where that stream opens into the arm of the sea called Burke Water. Our landing-stage
was, I suppose, a couple of hundred yards from the Myall Creek wharf--the 'Crick Wharf,' as
it was always called; and it was Tim's job to bridge that gulf by means of the punt, which
he navigated with an oar passed through a hole in its flat stern. The punt was roomy, but a
cumbersome craft.

The orphans ranged in age all the way from about three years on to the twenties. Alf Loddon
was twenty-six, I believe; but he, though strong, and a useful hand at the plough, or with
an axe, or in the shafts of one of our small carts, was undoubtedly half-witted. We had several
big fellows whose chins cried aloud for the application of razors. And none of us was idle.
Even little five-year-olds, like Teddy Reeves, gathered and carried kindling wood, and weeded
the garden; while boys of my own age were old and experienced farm hands, and had adopted the
heavy, lurching stride of the farm labourer.

I suppose there never was a 'charitable' institution conducted more emphatically upon business
lines than was St. Peter's Orphanage. The establishment included a dairy farm, a poultry farm,
and a market garden. Indeed, at that period, so far as the production of vegetables went, we
had no white competitors within fifty or a hundred miles, I think. As in many other parts of
Australia, the inhabitants of this countryside regarded any form of market gardening as Chinaman's
work, pure and simple. There were any number of settlers then who never tasted vegetables from
one year's end to another, though the ground about their houses would have grown every green
thing known to culinary art. In the townships, too, nobody would 'be bothered' growing vegetables;
but, unlike many of the 'cockatoo' farmers, the town people were ready enough to buy green
things; and therein lay our opportunity. We rarely ate vegetables at St. Peter's, but we cultivated
them assiduously; and sixpence and eightpence were quite ordinary prices for our cabbages to fetch.

So, too, with dairy products. We 'inmates' saw very little of butter at table, treacle being
our great standby. (The sisters had butter, of course.) But St. Peter's butter stamped 'S.P.O.'
was famous in the district, and esteemed, as it was priced, highly. Exactly the same might
be said (both as regards our share of these commodities and the public appreciation of them)
of the eggs and milk produced at St. Peter's. Save in the way of occasional pilferings I never
tasted milk at St. Peter's; but between us, the members of the milking gang, of which I was
at one time chief, milked twenty-nine cows, morning and evening. I have heard Jim Meagher,
the chief poultry boy, boast of a single day's gathering of four hundred and sixty-eight eggs;
but eggs, save when stolen, pricked, and sucked raw, never figured in our bill of fare. At
first glance this might appear unbusinesslike, but the prices obtainable for these things were
good, as they still are and always have been in Australia; and the various items of our dietary--treacle,
bread, oatmeal, tea, and corned beef--could of course be bought much more cheaply.

Father O'Malley did most of the purchasing for the Orphanage, and audited its accounts, I believe.
Sister Catharine and the Sister-in-charge, between them, did all the collecting throughout
the countryside for the Orphanage funds. And I have heard it said they were singularly adept
in this work. I have heard a Myall Creek farmer tell how the sisters 'fairly got over' him,
though, as he told the story, it seemed to me that in this particular case he had been the
victor. They were selling tickets at the time for a 'social' in aid of the Orphanage funds.
The farmer flatly refused to purchase, saying he could not attend the function.

'Ah, well, but ye'll buy a ticket, Misther Jones; sure ye will now, f'r the Orphanage.' But
Mr. Jones was obdurate. Well, then, he would give a few pounds of tea and sugar? But he was
right out of both commodities. Some of his fine eggs, or, maybe, a young pig? Mr. Jones continued
in his obduracy. He was a poor man, he said, and could not afford to give.

'May we pick a basket av y'r beautiful oranges thin, Misther Jones?' They might not, for he
had sold them on the trees.

'Ah, well, can ye let us have a whip, just a common whip, Misther Jones, for we've come out
without one, an' the horse is gettin' old, an' needs persuasion.' Mr. Jones would not give
a whip, as he had but the one.

'Ah, thin, just a loan of it, Misther Jones, till this evening?' No, the farmer wanted to use
the whip himself.

'Well, well, thin, Misther Jones, I see we'll have to be gettin' along; so I'll wish ye good-morning--if
ye'll just let us have a cup o' milk each, for 'tis powerful warm this morning, an' I'm thirsty.'
At this the farmer forgot his manners, in his wrath, and said explosively:

'The milk's all settin', an' the water tank's near empty, so I'll wish ye good-morning, anyhow,
mum!' And this valiant man moved to the door.

But I am well assured that such a defeat was a rare thing in the sisters' experience. Indeed,
Mr. Jones made it his boast that he was the only man in that district--'Prodesdun or Papish'--who
ever received a visit from the Orphanage sisters without paying for it. On the other hand,
it was very generally admitted that no farm in that countryside was more profitable than ours;
and that no one turned out products of higher quality, or obtained better prices. These smaller
rural industries--dairying, market gardening, and the like--demand much labour of a more or
less unskilled and mechanical sort, but do not provide returns justifying the payment of high
wages. In this regard St. Peter's was, of course, ideally situated. It paid no wages, and employed
twenty pairs of hands for every one pair employed by the average producer in the district.

II

Looking back now upon the period I spent as an 'inmate' of St. Peter's Orphanage, it seems
a queer unreal interlude enough; possessing some of the qualities of a dream, including brevity
and detachment from the rest of my life. But well I know that in the living there was nothing
in the least dream-like about it; and, so far from being brief, I know there were times when
it seemed that all the rest of my life had been but a day or so, by comparison with the grey,
interminable vista of the St. Peter's period.

It appears to me now as something rather wonderful that I ever should have been able to win
clear of St. Peter's to anything else; at all events, to anything so unlike St. Peter's as
the most of my life has been. How was it I did not eventually succeed Tim, the punt-man, or
become the hind of one or other of the small farmers about the district, as did most of the
Orphanage lads? The scope life offered to the orphans of St. Peter's was something easily to
be taken in by the naked eye from Myall Creek. It embraced only the simplest kind of labouring
occupations, and included no faintest hint of London, or of the great kaleidoscopic world lying
between Australia and England; no sort of suggestion of the infinitely changeful and various
thing that life has been for me.

It is certain that I cherish no sort of resentment or malice where the Orphanage and its sisters
are concerned. But neither will I pretend to have the slightest feeling of gratitude or benevolence
towards them. I should not wish to contribute to their funds, though I possessed all the wealth
of the Americas. And I will say that I think those responsible for the conduct of the place
were singularly indifferent, or blind, to the immense opportunities for productive well-doing
which lay at their feet.

Here were sixty orphans; lads for the most part plastic as clay. The sisters were the potters.
No ruling sovereign possesses a tithe of the absolute authority that was theirs. They literally
held the powers of life and death. Unquestioned and god-like they moved serenely to and fro
about the island farm, in their floating black draperies, directing the daily lives of their
subjects by means of a nod, a gesture of the hand, a curt word here or there. They were the
only gods we had. (There was nothing to make us think of them as goddesses.) And, so blind
were they to their opportunities, they offered us nothing better. By which, I do not mean that
our chapel was neglected. 

The garage did not keep another vehicle that brought green rubber float of Segovia and only rolling
when the owners, to get the summer, withdrew to his country house in the Valley Amblés. The
rest of the year was abandoned completely in the dark den. The boy penetrated inside every day to
catch the mysterious egg that a hen placed on guadamacil bed cushions.

       * * * * *

At ten years old Ramiro seemed touched God. His mother saw him penetrate, as a predestined, in the
harshness and meditation. Through an outer harbor sometimes heard him recite, in fierce passion,
religious dirges like a flame burning in his lip, sometimes one appeared busy long time to copy
the most notable of Jesus Christ and his glorious Mother, and observed I always drew the name
of our Savior with gold ink and the blue characters of the Blessed Virgin. I believe secured,
and, seeming to follow her own careless holding that such closure in the face yellowing, ruled
that the squire take out for a walk, from time to time.

Medrano was presented after noon, and children, the girls dress in costume black velvet shoes
Virillos silver, purple hat, a ruff and a fresh sprat short, was to say goodbye to the mother.
She marked the tresses, with the comb, to side, according to the
Spanish way, and pray a Hail making and Pater, dispatched him with
a kiss.

So knowing Ramiro was the city with its suburbs and outlines. It was a constant revelation For your
eyes weary monotone picture of the mansion. The pursuit of life invaded different suddenly
his mind.

In addition, the walls beasts they spoke a language legendary and heroic and temples, with their
grave graves, told the glories of man and the pride lineages.

As the squire kept frequent contact with some clergy of the parishes, I heard tell or discuss,
often in the corridors of the sacristy, the age-old traditions of the city, and in this way, her retentive
treasured wonderful stories, who had to serve after to entrance to be kept or entertaining of
cheap bars and bakeries. Ramiro advantage of knowing that catchy. The old soldier was illustrated
with the things themselves, deciphering to registration and marking so confidently the site
of events. She learned Ramiro the tragic loves of the famous knight dwells with Aja Nalvillos Galiana.
It was also squire who told him first, before the Gate of the Mala Ventura, history Avila sixty
hostages, whose head was boiled in oil, King Alfonso the Battler;
and the sacrifice of Blasco Ximeno arrogant, it was a challenge to
his own field, King treacherous and faithless.

The famous feat of Ximena Blázquez was concerned about one of the huge towers of the Puerta de
San Vicente, and Ramiro and never raised his eyes to the wall that did not remember the trick
of that female in the absence of men, seeing the Moorish Almoravids reach, up to the battlements
with women of the population covered all beards and hats getting
intimidated in this manner the infidels, who left to escape the city,
believing it well defended.

       

* * * * *

Avila Medrano had in many friendships, but his most generous fellow, whether they are try to
drink in company with a boot of San Martin and to procure some doubloons
in a pinch, was the Portuguese Diego Franco, Ringer main church, that
having worked of paraires in Segovia, was later drummer in Bruges
and Antwerp, where he brought his great fondness for bells.

Ramiro was a feast for each of the visits that used to do, on top of the towers, to that "bachelor
clappers," as he called the squire.

After passing the threshold of the Church, Ramiro pulled a cord hidden behind the cover, and, almost
instantly up there with a dizzying height for your child's eyes, looked out, through a hole
in the ceiling, a tiny face of a woman or man.

Shortly thereafter, could hear the sound of heels on the inside of a large pillar to the right,
the bolt creaked, and the panel, when opened, had the ringer, or his wife, carrying in one hand
bunch of keys and the other a lantern.

Then began the climb through the gap in that column of the temple. The steps were so high that Ramiro
had to help with your hands. Only, from time to time, the narrowness of a loophole left a ray
of sunshine through the glass color and perfumed with incense.

The visit took place usually at the top of the truncated tower, under a shed roof, rested on
each one Razorfen tables, where the couple raised a half-dozen pig, black as pitch. Ramiro
amused browse the mysteries of the roof or contemplate the city and
the horizon, from that elevation which produced in all its be the
whim of a flight of fancy.

Franco was wretched body. When something was concerned muscovado mustache nervously. His wife,
Aldonza González, whom everyone called the Extremadura, was, however, graceful and vigorous.
She ran the two thicker bells, leaving him the Clarillo and bells.

Many times, having to take a ring of importance, the four climbed the tower. The squire help,
and Ramiro, though shaken to the core, enjoyed those horrific explosions that threatened to
demolish the tower and throw himself to air like a straw in the whirlwind sound. Aldonza, the
enthusiasm of his task, showed All shims until the meat.

       

It was a female almost beautiful. Its tender skin like cream, her lips red as a pepper Candeleda,
but both her hair untamed as his outline for youth, denoting a natural masculine and impudent.
He drove to her husband as a slave, unloading on him too much vigor renewed in their blood pure
air of the towers. Ramiro looked askance. She exceedingly fond of children. Sometimes, when no
one saw, weight and sleeping levantábale on a seat, tried to encourage him and make him laugh
with her tickling and estrujaduras violent.

* * * * *

Holidays, the preferred squire spent in your own den, playing cards with friends. When the
child reached the point called his daughter Casilda, comely little girl that the slum charmed
with her beauty, suggesting these abandoned infants of speaking of legends. The mother had
been a Spanish Amalfi stole the squire night, injuring the father and killing a brother, and,
discovered two years later, preferred complete left on the rack rather than denounce.

Composed of two bedrooms with a den garden in the back of a shack
behind San Pedro.

Despite the sweetness and beauty of Casilda, Ramiro was always with haughty coldness. She heard
every word flash of admiration. Quitábale lime stains or dust from their clothes, every moment besábale
hands.

When playing in the garden it was she who ran to bring the pebble to the sling or the stick
of the improvised crossbow as he expected stiff and lordly. However, once the leave, Ramiro joined
his mouth with creature dressed in rags like a gypsy, and this mechanical movement came to wake
him in the course of days, a strange delight, which reminded him dirty smack picked fruit on
the ground.

V

After living in Avila more than nine years, the only person who dared
to don Inigo closer friendship was the knight Don Alonso Serrano Blázquez.

As their estates in the Valley-Amblés women were contiguous and had belonged to the same family as the
Eagles, not long be known.

There was no nobility in the community most illustrious lineage than
the Blázquez.

History strain that was illustrated higher deeds and famous love a book of chivalry. Don Alonso
descended, by male line, the champion Ximeno Blázquez, first Governor and Mayor of the city when
it was resettled by Count Raymond of Burgundy. Ximeno Blasco, on the challenge; Ximena Blázquez,
the hats, and the famous Nalvillos, married to the default Aja Galiana, and almost as famous
as the Cid, were their ancestors. The dating of very old Council resolution that whenever horsemen
leave the city, in service King, "had to be their leader and descendant of the noble champion
Ximeno Blasco, the Crawler, and no other lineage.

Otrosí your pendonero or lieutenant. "

In the ancient church of San Pedro may be the chapel of the tombs emblazoned Serrano and hoary gnawed.
Was this another illustrious and ancient house. Don Alonso could use the flag five alternating
with white lilies in a field of silver scallops, or the rampant lions
azure field.

The honors have always shined in his family.

His palace, inherited from his wife, stood toward the North, together with the wall of the city,
according to immemorial usage of the best bloodlines. One of the cubes there stood embattled
at the bottom of the garden, and his defense had always corresponded to the Eagles. The gentleman
short lived part of the solar year, the court drew a powerful magnet. In contrast, dumb and monastic
existence Avila de los Santos, where he spent endless hours without listening another note
of life that the ringing of a bell or the sound of a rooster, he exasperated the humor as a harsh
captivity.

Outside of battle of Lepanto, in which, armed with broadsword wide Guzman, bravely batiose on
the prow of a galley, receiving a musket ball in the shoulder and
released in thigh, did not record another action in your life memorable.

Moped almost always in the palatial offices. At eighteen years of age was a page to Ruy Gómez
de Silva, and at thirty, gentleman King, who reminded him later for his behavior in the fleet,
the habit of Calatrava.

He had studied at Salamanca, resided two years in Milan and three in Venice. The memory of this
city still deliriously exalted. He liked to discuss things of art, and often referred to his talks
with Tintoretto, whom he had known intimately. Latin and Tuscan sweet tongue you were as familiar
as their own language. To be alone among his books before he grabbed the Metamorphoses, or
liberated Jerusalem, which the rough Paul's letters. Everyone knew that it had offered the council
of the Cathedral to take Gothic at its expense the cover of the Apostles with a Greco-Roman
peristyle.

Crates their firms were full of poetic essays in which he sang in the manner of Boscan and Garcilaso
to Chloris and Galatea. Taken to complete a translation of The Labyrinth of Love, trails glosses
Petrarch's sonnets, and had in hand a happy imitation of Arcadia Sannazaro. For him, that bleak
and austere nature that surrounded him everywhere, to her hometown
hemistich did not deserve.

The use galas, continued genuflection, the atmosphere of the courtroom and all the artificial
convoluted set of feelings or feigned, anyone estoraque, anyone histrionic
shaving of court life, compounded by the exquisite refinement "who",
as Don Inigo, "The wickedness of foreign prudent provided the Spanish
to the value afeminalles" had ended by lying to cover with fiber wrap
the austere Castilian Don Alonso.

However, not to notice it took a stout heart and a sword was hidden beneath embroidery velvet
sheath that ceremony, and that his honor was always so punctilious as could be in the heart or
cheek resting on the San Pedro, with its pair of spurs on the calcaneus. Only had time to get
to him early, fine grains sensuality fascinating life of Italy threw over kingdoms, spreading
the taste of the pomp and beautiful to live.

He loved the rich objects, the apparatus palace, the many servants. The great possessions served
above all, he says, not to demean in winning and best able to show
the high rank of encouragement.

He was raised and splendid condition. I thought that above all human pound was a generous gesture
and shiny, like the feather in his hat.

Its luxury in dress teased the pragmatic. No sword used in court longer than his or lechuguilla
most eminent and wider.

Milan had their brocade weaving and brocade according to old patterns of family wardrobe, and only
jewelers of Florence were worthy of recording the onyx and carnelian for the stamp of her rings
and pommel of his dagger.

Several years of youth were spent astounded the young wife of a director of Castile and liked
it a lot in court that he had given two thousand crowns in gold for a stained Valenzuela in bleeding,
the surgeon who introduced him. Antonio Pérez always seemed written great love, and he had that
friendship and valimiento to get a seat on the Council of Italy the first joint.

His love of things that specifies a rarity and exquisite quality of art was amply sincere, but
he also knew that the cult that ostensibly put a border incomparable passion a lordly life,
and using his early friends in Milan and Venice, began meet in your home a real treasure.

Objects struck at the gentleman's imagination more subtle were his glasses and rapture ivories.
These, cold, smooth and quasi golden provocábanle indescribable enthusiasm.

He gestures of true love to catch them in the headlights and bring them to light. It seemed as though
their oppressed hands with pale aristocratic fraternity that matter, where the sun's rays mimicked
an internal flushing blood.

       

Towards the middle of the main block, on two long tables made of tiny mirrors, fountains, vases, bowls
of Venice randomly interspersed his weakness almost incorporeal and a fine way reversed the
silvered glass as a beautiful flowering pond.

Some of those objects prolonged the miracle of living centenarians. Century pieces previous generation
archetypes innumerable, had been embellished in masks and vermin unforeseen by the clip of Vistoria
of Ballorino of Beroviero, in the great age visionary glassware.

Cloudy glasses, a glaucous tinge muddy water as the channel, which appeared to have taken all
your fantasy. Its management educated the better hand the ivories. Don Alonso took them with infinite care,
like a little smooth movement could take their lives. A friend, a painter trained in Venice,
who was called Greco, Tell them taught to look at them at night in a moonbeam. Vague on the
substance astral light reflecting shimmering phosphorescence. So what if he had fallen into his
pupil the drop of a filter, Alonso believed breathe the smell of the night on the water, saw squamous
steles, aturquesadas whiteness of the palaces, the gloom of the small
channels placed in the mystery.

Thus, by virtue of crystal vain, that gentleman, from his dry, dusty
Castilla, you thought transported to the city of the lagoons, where
she spent under the black or green mask, hours unforgettable.

* * * * *

Between Don and Don Inigo Alonso Serrano Blázquez formosa soon that friendship tight and flattering
often bind to the discontented. Cried one proud and prophetic in
tone against the policy the monarch, who, while he was destroying
the privileges of the nobility, tolerated Catholic kingdom in the
shameful scourge of the Moors. The other, looking fixedly at to the
gates, and vile crimes related rewarded with great honors and rewards.

One
day, retiring to a home visit, met with Ramiro Serrano Blázquez in
the antechamber. The child was sitting in a chair high, sculpted support.
His eyes seemed to look staring a painful image of his own brain.
It seemed that a child enchanted.

Don Alonso, in his manly packaging,
concealing a heart capable of deep tenderness he suddenly moist eyes
as a woman. Ramiro had always regarded with indifference; but now
seeing him deep in that melancholy, he felt a strange pity that he
could not explain. Since then started very attentive. The next day
he sent find your dwarf. Teaching made him the house, the garden walls,
and he brought him to meet his daughter Beatrice, a beautiful girl
of ten years, they received a large room fragrant, dark, sitting on
a blue cushion, between the owners.

When the girl stood there, Ramiro
came forward stretching out his arms, but she held with deep reverence.
Deep emotion, unspeakable, shook the boy's chest. The Dwarf put his
hand on his shoulder and left.

VI

The inheritance of Iñigo de la
Hoz, Valle-Amblés, was located near the foot of the mountains, a quarter
of a mile west of Sonsoles. He composed at the beginning of a piece
of Mount and three hundred acres of land for planting, but due to
the troubles of the Lord, had been eroding rapidly until reduced to
a thick and narrow strip of scrubland meadow in the end of which stood
the ruined farmhouse of the parents of Dona Brianda. And in almost the same moment joy
shook and thrilled me as I realised the romantic hazard of our meeting at all, which was accentuated
really by the narrowness of our margin of time. A matter of minutes and he would be gone. A
matter of minutes and I should never have seen him at all. But that could not have been. I
refused to contemplate a life at St. Peter's in which this inestimable amelioration (now nearly
five minutes old) played no part. The hopeless emptiness of life at the Orphanage without a
meeting with Ted was something altogether too harrowing to be dwelt upon. It could not have
been borne.

'You'll be here first thing next visitors' Sunday, Ted--first thing?' I charged him, as he
rose in response to the puntman's bell. 'I couldn't stand it if you didn't come, Ted.'

'Oh, I'll come, right enough, chum. But that's a month. Why, spare me days, surely I---'

'You'll have to go, Ted. That's his last ring. Sister Agatha's looking. Don't seem to take
much notice o' me, Ted, or she might-- Oh, good-bye, Ted! Don't seem to be noticing. Good-bye,
good-bye!'

My head was back in the cow's flank now, and very hot tears were running down my cheeks and
into the milk-pail. My lip was cut under my front teeth, and--'Oh, Ted, first thing in the
morning--don't forget the Sunday,' I implored, as he passed away, drawing one hand caressingly
across my shoulder as he went.

In a hazy, golden dream I finished my milking, staggering and swaying up to the dairy under
my two brimming pails, and turned to the remaining tasks of the evening, longing for bed-time
and liberty to review my amazing good fortune in privacy; thirsting for it, as a tippler for
his liquor. I dared not think about it at all before bed-time. In some recondite way it seemed
that would have been indecent, an exposure of my new treasure to the vulgar gaze. Now, it was
securely locked away inside me, absolutely hidden. And there it must remain until, lights being
doused, I could draw it out under the friendly cover of my coarse bed-clothes (after visiting-day
sheets had been removed) and voluptuously abandon myself to it. 

But suddenly awoke with a shudder, and he thought he heard a voice
saying:

- Praise you, Lord, through Sister Moon and the stars that
have formed in the sky clear, beautiful and precious!

The monk rose from his hard bed and stood in prayer, until, through the window his poor cell, saw
pale the moon and the stars.

The next day he discharged his duties with the utmost accuracy, but
the brother Gilberto, the novice noticed the sadness in his face,
and often looked prior to the refectory.

When found, at last, in the solitude of the Scriptorium, took the brush with a trembling hand
and, on the stretched piece of vellum, wanted to play again highlights
the missal the monastery and the Book of Hours of Queen of France,
but nothing could be achieved.

His drawings resembled the drawings of a child.

He dropped the brush, and his tonsured head resting on his arms, began
to sob bitterly.

Her tears fell upon the parchment, staining it and making pitifully more blots on his ill-fated
designs.

Fray Baltasar many days spent in that bitter mood! Many sleepless night eyes! The daily chores
of convent life could not make him forget his pain: or verses from the Psalms and the prayers of
the Office. One day he went to a meadow, near the monastery, which grew large number of flowers
of various species, and these perhaps reminded him that he had so often drawn, idealized, in briefs
and missals more tears of pain as his eyes clouded.

Fray Baltasar long been given his deep sorrow and completely forgotten about the monastic rule,
and suddenly seemed soft light enlighten his mind, and fell on his knees cried

- Oh, and miserable pygmy race of mortals! Do not you understand, Baltasar sinner, if God robbed
you of your art has been recreated just because you admire your work and pride it? Oh, vanity
of vanities!

After fulfilling the penance imposed on him by the prior having broken the rule, entered his
cell to try slight break. Soon, a knock at matins and the monk wanted to get out of his hard couch,
his eyes clouded over, and felt faint ... And his life was slowly fading ....

While the monks buried the corpse gave Baltasar in the crypt of the
monastery, scriptorium walked prior to collecting the work of the
illuminator, assuming it unfinished.

                         But he found the record in parchment lined with exquisite and delicate
task, the most wonderful, no doubt, that traced the Fray Baltasar
brushes.

THE PARROT OF Huichilobos

MARIANO SILVA

When the Duke of Ayamonte librarian and archivist named me its illustrious
house, I thought my life was going to slip quietly in the basement
of his palace at Madrid, and even saw on distance the publication
of several works of historical nature, which for many years coveted,
and which, however, remain unpublished, for the most part still within
my inkwell.

Quite the opposite of what I expected, the tycoon turned out to be a researcher tireless, and
while he spent long hours exploring the archives of the Court, I often sent in search of documents
to the provinces.

Thus it was that last summer I gave my weary bones in the historic city now dead Alcalá del
Río, rather than leave, as I wished to spend the summer at the coast. Was I on the eve of marriage,
and although the salary he enjoyed was not short, not wasted any means of savings. So I did not
want to stay in the main hotel town, which despite being bad was expensive, but looked more
modest housing. After to go to several eateries, I decided to take the room at home gave me a certain
widow, by very small stipend. It was a humble part, no doubt, but clean as a whistle, and what
attracted me was the cheerful aspect of your balcony. As I am ignorant in botany, I can not say exactly
which plants are which so profusely adorned, but I think those that
grew in the old pot of oil were azaleas, and I'm sure had hydrangeas
in a barrel, geraniums chipped in several pots, and "forget-me-not"
in a tin of sardines. I could have hugged the man. His achievement seemed
to me little short of miraculous. I figured Ted manipulating threads by which nations are governed.
To be able to bend to one's will august administrators, people like Father O'Malley! Truly,
the world outside St. Peter's was a wondrous place, and the life of its free citizens a thing
most delectable.

We talked, but how we did talk, all through that sunny, windy Sunday! (A bright, dry westerly
had been blowing for several days.) I gathered that Ted was in his customary condition of impecuniosity,
and that, much against his inclination, it would be necessary for him to take a job somewhere
before many days had passed; or else--and I saw, with a pang of desolate regret, that his own
feeling favoured the alternative--to pack his swag and be off 'on the wallaby'; on the tramp,
that is, putting in an occasional day's work, where this might offer, and sleeping in the bush.
He was a born nomad. Even I had realised this. And he liked no other life so well as that of
the 'traveller,' which, in Australia, does not mean either a bagman or a tourist, but rather
one who strolls through life carrying all his belongings on his back, working but very occasionally,
and camping in a fresh spot every night.

It required no great penetration upon Ted's part to see that I was weary of St. Peter's. (My
first day at the Orphanage had brought me to that stage.)

'Look here, mate,' he said, late in the afternoon. 'I've got pretty near thirty bob left, and
a real good swag. Why not come with me, an' we'll swag it outer this into Queensland?'

I drew a quick breath. It was an attractive offer for a boy in my position. But even then there
was more of prudence and foresight in me, or possibly less of reckless courage and less of
the born nomad, than Ted had.

'But how could I get away?'

'You can swim,' said Ted. 'I'd be waiting for ye at the wharf. We'd be outer reach by daybreak.'

'And then, Ted, how should we live?' My superior prudence questioned him. I take it the difference
in our upbringing and tradition spoke here.

'Live! why, how does any one live on the wallaby? It's never hard to get a day's work, if ye
want a few bob. Up in the station country they never refuse a man rations, anyway; it's in
the town the trouble is. I've never gone short, travelling.'

'I don't think I'd like begging for meals, Ted,' I said musingly. And in a moment I was wishing
with all my heart I could withdraw the words. It seemed that, for the first time in all our
acquaintance, I had hurt and offended this simple, good-hearted fellow.

'Beggin', is it?' he cried, very visibly ruffled. 'I'd be sorry to ask ye to, for it's what
I've never done in me life, an' never would. Would ye call a man a beggar for takin' a ration
or a bitter 'baccy from a station store? Why, doesn't every traveller do the same? An', for
that matter, can't a man always put in a day's work, gettin' firewood or what not, if he's
a mind to? Ye needn't fear Ted Reilly'll ever come to beggin'!'

In my eager anxiety to placate my only friend I almost accepted his offer. But not quite. Some
little inherited difference held me back, perhaps. I wonder! At all events, the thing was dropped
between us for the time; and, before he left, Ted promised he would tackle a bit of work a
Myall Creek farmer had offered him--to clear a bush paddock of burrajong fern, which had poisoned
some cattle. Thus, he would be able to come and see me again on the following Sunday. On that
we parted; and, before I was half way through my milking, fear and regret oppressed me as with
a physical nausea; fear that I might have lost my only friend, regret that I had not accepted
his offer, and so won to freedom and the big world outside St. Peter's.

The night that followed was one of the most unhappy spent by me at St. Peter's. My prudence
appeared to me the merest poltroonery, my remark about 'begging' the most finicking absurdity,
my failure to accept Ted's offer the most reckless and offensive stupidity. Evidently I was
unworthy of any better lot than I had. I should live and die an 'inmate' and a drudge. I deserved
nothing else. In short, I was a very despicable lad, had probably lost the only friend I should
ever have, and, certainly, I was very miserable.

Monday brought some softening (helped by the fact that Sister Mary was on duty at breakfast-time,
so that I escaped the addition of punishment to hunger), and, as the week wore slowly by, hope
rose in my breast once more, and with it a return of what I now regard as the common-sense
prescience which made me hesitate to adopt a swagman's life. I could not honestly say that
I had any definite ideas as to another and more reputable sort of occupation or career. As
yet, I had not. But I did vaguely feel that there would be derogation in becoming what my father
would have called a 'tramp.'

My father's memory, the question of what he would have thought of it, affected my attitude
materially. He had accepted it as axiomatic, I thought, that his son must be a gentleman. My
present lot as an 'inmate' of St. Peter's hardly seemed to fit the axiom, somehow; and Ted,
whatever I might think or say about 'beggin'' or the like, was all the friend I had or seemed
likely to have, and a really good fellow at that. But withal a certain stubbornly resistant
quality in me asserted that there would be a downward step for me, though not for Ted, or for
any of my fellow orphans, in taking to the road; that the step might prove irrevocable, and
that I ought not to take it. I dare say there was something of the snob in me. Anyhow, that
was how I felt about it. Also, I remember deriving a certain comically stern sort of satisfaction
from contemplation of the spectacle of myself, alone, unaided, declining to stoop, even though
stooping should bring me freedom from the Orphanage! Yes, there was a certain egotistical satisfaction
in that thought.

Ted came to see me again on the next Sunday, but our day was far less cheery than its predecessor
had been. We were good friends still, but there was a subtle constraint between us, as was
proved by the fact that Ted did not again mention the suggestion of my taking to the road with
him. Also, Ted was for the moment a wage-earner, working during fixed and regular hours for
an employer; and I knew he hated that. In such case he felt as one of the mountain-bred brumbies
(wild horses) of that countryside might be supposed to feel, when caught, branded, and forced
between shafts.

On the following Sunday Ted's downcast constraint was much more pronounced, and I saw plainly
that my Sabbath visitor was on the eve of a breakaway. The name of the farmer for whom he had
been working was Mannasseh Ford, and, having such a name, the man was always spoken of in just
that way.

'I pretty near bruk my back finishing Mannasseh Ford's paddick last night,' explained Ted moodily.
'There was three days' fair work left in it when I got there in the morning. But I meant gettin'
shut of it, an' I did. Mannasseh Ford opened his eyes pretty wide when I called up for me money
las' night, an' he looked over the paddick. Wanted to take me on regler, he did; pounder week
an' all found, he said. I thanked him kindly, him an' his pounder week! Well, he said he'd
make it twenty-five shillin', an' I thanked him for that.'

Thanks clearly meant refusal with Ted, and I confess he rose higher in my esteem somehow, for
the fact that he could actually refuse what to me seemed like wealth. I recalled the fact that
my father had paid Ted exactly half this amount, and had found him quite willing to stay with
us for half that again, or even for occasional tobacco money. Perhaps there was a mercenary
vein in me at the time. I think it likely. The talk of my fellow orphans was largely of wages,
and materialism dominated the atmosphere in which I lived. I know this refusal of twenty-five
shillings a week and 'all found' struck me as tolerably reckless; splendid, in a way, but somewhat
foolhardy, and I hinted as much to Ted.

'Och, bother him an' his twenty-five shillin'!' said Ted. Here nobody cares preferably with the political situation the nation:
the main issue is personal freedom, in harmony with the interest of the district. Work is the only
way to be the man who understands the Basque. He has such an addiction his freedom, his staff of
race, nation and individual, which retains its own language in spite of everything. Like the catalan
is entrepreneurial, cosmopolitan, if necessary. Whenever he looks jealous to preserve and exercise
their initiative in every work of social activity. Patient and tenacious, half-hearted, likes
to lock himself in his individuality to make things with aplomb - which does not prevent him
always served the association for all that is required collective strength and power, or a beneficent
action.

The natural consequences of all these characteristic features are noticed in the social condition loa
four different groups that make up the continental Spain. Without ignoring some exceptions purely local,
or that manifest in better-educated classes, the general rules are
no less justified, and can be summarized as follows:

In the Spain
that was radically changed by the Arabs or Moors, is met almost all
Spanish society which has produced most beautiful, big, rich and sublime
on fine arts.

There is no inch of usable land that is not subject to cultivation. The show much skill manufacturing
jobs and happy inspiration. The Art of the irrigation is generally known and practiced skill
dog. Where land ownership is not something divided (and this is rare), supplemented with the
population of movable property, whether in agriculture, the livestock industry, small manufacturing,
etc., so that the mass is prolatarios While relatively small. The trend to the possession of something
very general, and with it instincts and habits of independence. Populations are little or no superstitious.
The begging exists only in very small scale, and that, reduced to the major cities in no case
comes from the instincts of the Arab race, but of economic causes and ancient monastic traditions.
There is no true welfare of the masses, as far as possible in the present state of society.
Liberalism is great in all populations. The economic movement is very active in all branches
of production. People love neatness and elegance. In a word, Moorish Spain, with a much smaller
territory to half of Gothic Spain, and a population equal to 66 percent of it, is at least four
times higher in social movement, wealth, welfare and civilization.

On the contrary, the Gothic Spain, covering more than half of the territory and population continental,
and contains so vast fertile plains and alti-plains in inaction vegeta and poverty (with rare
exceptions) is pleased to isolation, with no interest in communications;
tolerate dirt everywhere and neglect, is literally full of beggars,
keeping begging as an institution, has an amazing profusion of ancient
churches and convents; look with disdain the beauties of vegetation,
and is extremely backward in the art of agriculture and manufacturing.

There (quite the opposite of the other parts of Spain) the fields are deserts, and the population
is concentrated in cities and villages, where persistently keeps habits of laziness, prudery and begging.
The clergy (without noticeable influence, or nearly mule in politics and social education in the other groups)
is very central Spain still powerful to resist the damage or progress, because it can easily influence
on idle mobs clustered in localities. The customs of the clergy are not austere, or thing it seems,
does not take any interest in popular instruction, and mixed in committed policy whenever it sees its
own interests. In general it is greedy, and their primary care is to ensure good income.

Life within that part of Spanish society ew monotonous and sad. The appearance of the people is
always gloomy, owing to his clothes, a yellowish-brown ink on general. The buildings lack the
grace, and elegance of simplicity and seduction of the picturesque. The people divided only their
attention, in entertainment, between the church and the bull ring, ie, two mysticism - that
of the traditional faith and danger. In conclusion, the old Spain (with the exception of the
ports of the Cantabrian coast, the city Madrid and Valladolid in part) is deeply backward
and stagnant at all.

And worse is that even still has the notion of progress, because they support or even understand
enough railways and other elements of communication.

Although the provinces are actually small republics, by the nature of its institutions and special
ways, and thus form a relatively superior to that of Catalonia the two are so homogeneous
in their general features, which can be understood in a common appreciation. It is in these two
sections where the people have always shown greater respect and more tenacious in the defense
and preservation of its rights or municipal liberties, what which in ancient times gave as examples
the Aragonese nobles, the most liberal fraction and the strongest
personality among those that make up the second group.

Provinces in Catalonia and all progress is accepted with enthusiasm and perseverance by populations.

In
them there is no begging, beggars found in some Catalan towns come almost all of Aragon, where
down to exploit the industrious and commercial spaces. In the two groups that are major centers
to Barcelona and Bilbao, intolerance Castilian, which repels the foreign and new, has no place.
On the contrary, overseas is welcomed there with pleasure, and all
involved new progress in civilization is the most cordial hospitality.

Municipal liberties and individualism have been fruitful to these people industrious, thoughtful
throughout, zealous to uphold the law, integrity and severe in meeting
any commitments.

In no part of the peninsula is so deep as there the feeling of personality (forgive me to repeat
it), and HOWEVER, is there which presents more powerful the spirit of partnership. This proves
that there is no antagonism natural between the individual and collective, and that man when
he is personally free always seeking the support of the other individual strengths, because it
is a social being, and makes collective things much better than the socialist powers seeking to
absorb the initiative individuals on behalf of the common law.

Provinces in Catalonia and the democratic sentiment runs deep. There is the proletarian a man and
a citizen, he lives the work and is aware that work is given in society a supreme title which
entitles to the consideration and independence. These Both towns are the only ones who are left to
absorb the proposed unity of the nation Spanish, looking unit that rests on truly liberal institutions,
popular and national. The Catalan and Basque keep their language, literature, traditions peculiar
freedoms and shall be considered as separate peoples. They summarize what is more prosperous and
strong, the most prolific and distinguished in the political, social
and economic of Spain, and there is no exaggeration to say that just
as England Catalonia is Spanish, Provinces are the French mainland.

There are missing religious fanaticism, the taste for monopoly (although the Catalans are
protectionist by reason of its factories), and the veneration sable or militarism. The day that
these people are founding of the Republic, the change would be insensitive to the social and
economic scarcely would be an upward movement political. It is within these people which is the
true seed of democracy Spanish.

The result of the previous comparison is obvious, embracing the whole nation Spanish. It consists
of several villages, formed by crossing more or less intense of different races, and the various
activities of the institutions that have governed. Where want to counter that has reigned without
any absolute power socialism, social life has stalled. Torquemada where Philip II and have
left the deepest traces of their passage, the field has become sterile or not has been rough but thorns
and weeds. Where convents and the clergy have dominated more strongly, begging has become
endemic, idleness great, gross superstitions, deep love of isolation, to the routine, the neglect
and uncleanliness. Where charters have missed the former (ie, freedoms or guarantees), industry,
agriculture and trade have remained steady, after The retrogradation
hauled by the expulsion of the Moors and Jews.

Wherever you see the bad fruits of an education vicious and corrupting. On domestic morality of
central Spain is not an effect but the old Castilian pride and social isolation and in no way
the result of institutions above, who have made every effort to corrupt the people.

On the contrary, where the blood had been inoculated and customs of a people liberal, of spiritual
religion, equalizing and fraternal, and lover of nature (the Arab people or moro), is considerable
prosperity. Where there was no fighting or duality of religions there is more tolerance, less fanatical,
but alive instincts of liberty and fraternity the clergy have been less eager for wealth and
power. Where traditions have taken root economic freedom (that was the secret of the agricultural wonders,
artists and industrialists of the Moors), activity is visible, prosperity satisfactory, in spite of
the dismal action of regulatory laws and prohibitive. In the villages (the Basques) where no
no monopolies, no soldiers, no bans or acquiring authority, or indirect taxes ruinous, no police
Inquisition, oppressive centralization, everything is spontaneous and virile all prosper, peace reigns,
the customs are pure, sweet and peaceful, the ball game almost replaced
the bloody bulls games, the game does not exist as passion and speculation,
real property is very divided, life is free, easy and cheap elementary
instruction is rather widespread, advanced civilization in every way,
the population is much more condensed.

Catalonia, although much less independent of central government, the situation resembles to the
provinces, and is conspicuous by its industry and wealth, precisely because it has been less
exposed to the baneful influence of socialism despotic, brutal and corrosive opened by Carlos
V and Felipe II, socialism whose formulas were: the accusation, leveling in obedience passive, the
convent, the unity of religion, isolation, Spanish, prohibition, regulation of life, in short,
the complete suppression of individuality.

Such are the lessons to provide the present and the past of Spain, comparing the situation four
social groups most characteristic. What is that justice may portend about the future of that
nation? To answer this question it is necessary to summarize the general features offered throughout
Spain, for its constitution, its government, its parties, social character, their education, their
ideas, their economic life, its literature and aspirations.

The Spanish Constitution is the image of the situation of the people whom he governs. They all
coexist by halves, without a well defined character. It is a traditional monarchy or legitimacy
half divine right, half-roots, so that neither the aristocracy nor absolutism nor democracy
have authority or power or prestige, if not to hinder and damage each other. Parliamentary forms
and the apparent origin, but to the government obeys the courtesans influences to those of the opinion.
Very restricted circle of voters and powerful means of corruption,
voting is always the power, with no example of a ministry loses the
election.

The parties, disoriented by lack of and operating principles in all cases the situations are exploited
to turn the power nation without any thing to win ministerial fluctuations. Little more or
less all governing parties by the same means: force, repression, intrigue, corruption of conscience.
Strange! the bulk of the Spanish people hate the government sable and wish the downfall of
militarism, and all ministries HOWEVER rely on on the bayonets.

Spain's mainstream institutions seem to have been calculated to counteract any tendency progress.
In vain the Constitution established the legal equality, if the law restricts imports and all
changes, pregnant traffic, regulate many industries make it extremely difficult for youth access
to the professions, and subject to dire hindrance the best companies. A single example, for a
very subordinate interest, simply in order to understand how disastrous are the effects of restrictive
regulatory regime that prevails in most of Spain. Shortly before my arrival at Madrid, the government
had wanted to befriend the porters, whose service is regulated. To this end set a rate that
was in the service of every waiter the price of four reales for a trip or diligence within the
city be so forbidden to all charge more or less for their work. This, no doubt, in deference
to the porters and the public. A few days after the reform, the porters were quejosísimos the government
because they did not win anything. The reason was simple. Earlier, arranging freely with individuals
and making competition, winning six, eight or ten reales per day, at very low prices because
they made many commitments or services. But with the high tariff, the public has ceased to occupy,
and triple or quadruple the price of very rare commissions were not
compensated for the losses in the number of operations.

Spain is a country that abounds in paper mills, although the product is usually defective. Economic
protection prohibits the importation of foreign paper, forcing the Spanish to serve their own. What
is the result? The thought that has suffered famine in 1859-60 proves that the prohibition only
serves to give a privilege to manufacture and maintain national stationary. For many months
have not been printing paper for their publications, impotence of the privileged. In Spain,
classic wheat and all kinds of cereals, often seen the strange phenomenon of a grain shortage
that threatens to produce hunger! Why? Because people do not have the freedom to import grain
when the crops are scarce by lack of rain. Spain (it is worth repeating) is one of the countries
of Europe where snuff smokes worse (if not contraband), - and it belongs in the production monopoly
of Cuba, Puerto-Rico and Manila!

Prohibitive and protective tariffs, and therefore very high and over-regulation, make it difficult
and relatively small trade of a State as large as that. What is the result? The corruption of
officials of customs service, and smuggling huge and shocking, sadly
respond.

Spanish treasure lost by what goes underground to the whole country (mainly Gibraltar, Portugal and
the Pyrenees) three times matter what a strong reduction in rates. But it remains a fatal, a
spirit of routine and deep backlog of statesmen in the knowledge of social economy.

Studied with attention and without warning to the Spanish people, is that he has many features
outstanding qualities, and many very serious shortcomings of education. All that is good comes from
nature, which provided him with admirably, like everything what is wrong is the result of deeply
corrupting institutions. It is a town loyal, honest, hospitable, very sober and frugal, patient,
courageous, capable of all prowess and all the efforts of a great race. But it lacks, in general,
the spirit initiative, spontaneity, - because the bad governments have become accustomed to the
sedentary life, inertia and routine at all.

There are many things vicious, hateful, that the Spanish people love, not by inclination but by
habit. The game, bullfights, cockfights, etc.., There are because the government encourages
and exploits with lotteries, circus officials, taxes, etc. The Spanish literally live among the vines,
and consume very little wine. If the laws had intemperance exploited as a prosecutor, is sure to abound
as drunks players and beggars. And convents and tax laws have created the begging oppressive
regulations have established official corruption and maintained an administration incapable consuming
and convoluted.

Spanish society is amazingly smart, and great talents born where want. I have not seen any
kind in Spain that resembles nothing to the peasants of France (The Central and the Pyrenees
in particular), whose stupidity is only comparable to that of the Indians of the alti-Andean
plains. But of what use are clear that intelligence, that good and that penetration shrewd sense
that distinguish the Spanish people? The vicious public education the thousands of occupational
barriers, the brutal oppression weighing on the media, and intolerance religion (abject for
the Roman Court) annulled the intellectual advantages that nature granted to the Spanish. Thus
the great mass of people are profoundly ignorant, in general; the middle class is at the height
of his legal position, not well understood his role in a constitutional monarchy, the nobility is
ignorant and superficial in their great majority, the clergy is unable to fill their high ministry
in a manner worthy of the current civilization, and youth, gagged in the field of the press, and public
forum and overwhelmed by the organization privileged to have the liberal professions, is condemned
to the vague and nebulous controversies and speculations of German philosophy, political economy
purely theoretical brochures and literature, and translations futilities petty and bad taste.

The Spanish people are one of those in the Old World are more deeply rooted feeling Personality
and equality. Without that, he would have died long ago, smothered despotism. This is a quality
that resists all, because it is in the blood and supports in topography, climate, even in the
traditions of the language. Therefore, Spain is one of the best elements of democracy in Europe.
Spain will be republican and democratic deveras long before France, Germany, England and other
great nations of Europe.

But today is a people coarse, rough education, whose polish will not come until after the whole society
has entered into a broad way of freedom of movement and progress. The language is very rough
on all classes of society. Too earnest and free, replaces the subtleties of satire or persuasive
style with the brutal eloquence of obscene interjections. In addition, the Spanish suffer from
certain shortcomings that neutralize much of its fine qualities. Their nationality or social arrogance,
which is not going on to lag behind that of the Portuguese, obfuscate them so that, taking
them to the sterile quixotic and the most ridiculous exaggerations, do not let them recognize
the backwardness of their country.

They believe the first people in the world, in any and every situation, despite their weakness, ignorance,
habits of filth, homelessness and employment-mania, and its deplorable indifference to the
common interests which is the best coat of bad governments.

That will not happen but to under friction with other nations. Freedom will have many miracles
in Spain.

But if there's civilization is far behind on other European societies, there to think about
why Spain does not progress. Four centuries of tyranny, intolerance and errors unheard, have
left behind them a people who, if he had been ruled as England from 1688, today would be the
first people in the world. Despite that, the Spain of today is very distant greatly from that of
1825, visible progress, and in just five years after the passing quasi-revolution of 1854, has
made great strides.

Perhaps will say: "If the majority of Spanish people have such good character traits, Why is let evil
rule and does not change your situation? "The explanation is simple. Is that in Spain there has
been so far, no revolution, but simply struggle: that of independence
first, and then civil strife.

Germany had a grand revolution with religious reform; England two of the seventeenth century, France's
philosophy and 1789.

But Spain has not experienced anything similar. Struggles passing situations change apparent
and the characters change something: the great revolutions are just ideas peoples. Spanish
has the instincts of democracy and progress, but lacks subsequent convictions, the ideas are
translated later in institutions. Napoleon unfriendly made in Spain with the invasion, the ideas
of the French Revolution.

They come by one of two ways: either liberal reform, honest and determined, initiated by the Government,
which is what has the strength, - or the revolution. Touch the men of State anticipate, if they want
to avert the democratic revolution, preventing it to peaceful reform. The day that one or the
other is carried out, Spain is a great and glorious nationality, first order in the game of
civilization!

NOTES:

[1] Later Paris was enlarged, extending to the circular line of fortifications.

[2] The cathedral, built on the same site of a dating from the late sixth century, was begun
by King Ferdinand III in the year 1227 and completed in its main mass in 1493. Castilian has
404 feet long, 204 high latitude and 116 in the nave. Several of the side chapels are subsequent to
1493.

[3] Throughout the country may well fit 500.000 souls.

[4] exceeds one million annually arrobas worth $ 6,000,000.

[5] is known to have the same origin as the Breton language in France
and the Wales in England.

[6] Note well that in these tables also maintain the subdivision of historical groups, corresponding
to the former classification of the country, viz: Kingdoms of Valencia
and Murcia - Andalucia - Nueva Castilla - Extremadura - Leon - Galicia
- Old Castilla - Aragon - Catalonia, Navarra and Provinces.

[7] Province Oviedo.

[8] I remember that when considering only the three Basque provinces, the proportion is 68
inhabitants per square kilometer, density remarkable.

FIN.

   NOTABLE ERRATA. (They are now correcting)
   
   Dice Line page. Read.
   
   June 1 bitter bitter "17 and coral and coral, June 27
  and souvenirs and memories, July 17 and embroidered
   and bordered by August 10 is to the industry, is
  at the first, 18 13 boars the peccary "26 for fish,
  fishermen, 1925 to 1926 found 20-ramos-sections found
  48 38 and the strength and force 54 8 whole globe! the entire globe! Mr. Rawlence said:

'There's an accomplishment coming into general use now that might help you enormously: phonography,
shorthand-writing, you know. I am told it will mean a revolution in ordinary clerical work,
and newspaper work already rests largely on it. The man who can write a hundred words a minute--I
think that's about what they manage with it--will command a good post in any office, or on
any newspaper, I should think. I should certainly learn shorthand, if I were you. Perhaps you
could get them to introduce it here.'

I thought of Sister Agatha, and pictured myself suggesting to her the introduction of shorthand
into our curriculum in the Orphanage school. And at the same moment I recalled the occasions,
only yesterday, upon which I had had to 'hold out' my hand to this bitterly enthusiastic wielder
of the cane. My palms had purple weals on them at that moment, tough though they were from
outdoor work. I clenched my hands involuntarily, and was thankful the artist could not see
their palms. That would have been a horrid humiliation; the very thought of it made me flush.
No, this shorthand would hardly be introduced at St. Peter's; but I would learn it, I thought,
all the same; and in due course I did, to find (again in due course) that even the acquisition
of this mystery hardly represented quite the infallible key to fame and fortune that Mr. Rawlence
thought it in the 'seventies.

But my attitude toward this sufficiently casual suggestion was typical of the immensely stirring
and impressive influence which all the artist's talk of that day had upon me. It was undoubtedly
most kindly of him to show all the interest he did in one from whom he could not by any stretch
of the imagination be said to have anything to gain. We were quite old friends, he said, in
his amiable way, by the time evening approached, and we began to pack up his paraphernalia.
My crowning triumph came when, in leaving, he gave me his card, and wrote my full name down
in his dainty little pocket-book.

'When you do get to Sydney you must come and look me up without fail. My studio is at the address
on the card, and I'm generally to be found there. Mind, I shall expect a call as soon as you
arrive, and we will talk things over. I'm certain you'll reach Sydney, by and by. Like London,
at home, you know, it's the magnet for all the ambitious here. Good-bye, and best of good luck!'

'Mr. Charles Frederick Rawlence, Filson's House, Macquarie Street, Sydney,' was what I read
on the card. And then, in very small type in one corner, 'Studio, 3rd Floor.'

I think it had been the most vividly exciting day in my life up till then; and, though still
an orphan, and officially an 'inmate,' I walked among the clouds that night; a giant among
dwarfs and slaves by my way of it. Youth--aye, the immemorial magic of it was alive in my blood
on this spring night, if you like; and not all the Sister Agathas in all the hierarchy of Rome
had power to dull the wonder of it!

VI

'If it's to be done at all, why not now? There's nothing to be gained by waiting. I'm only
wasting time.'

Phrases of this sort formed the burden of all my thoughts for a number of weeks after my memorable
'day out' (as the servants say) with the Sydney artist. I no longer debated with myself at
all the question as to whether or not I should leave the Orphanage. It would have seemed treachery
to my new self, and in a way to Mr. Rawlence (my source of inspiration) to debate the point.
It was quite certain then that I should take my fate into my own hands, leave St. Peter's,
and make an attempt to win my way in the world alone.

Having no belongings, no friends to consult, no possessions of any sort or kind (save Ted's
one-pound note, and a neatly bound manuscript volume of bush botany, which latter treasure
had been in my pocket on the day of my father's death, and so had remained mine), there really
were no preparations for me to make. And so, as I said to myself a score of times a day: 'There's
nothing to be gained by waiting.' Still, I waited, some underlying vein of prudence in me,
or of cowardice, offering no reason--no reason against the move, no objection, but just negation,
the inertia of that which is still. But, yes, I was most certainly going, and soon. That was
my last waking thought every night when I dug my head into my straw pillow, and my first waking
thought when I swung my feet down to the floor. I was going out into the world to make my own way.

I was too closely engaged by the material aspect of my position to spare thoughts for its abstract
quality. But, looking back from the cool greyness of later life, one sees a wistful pathos,
and, too, a certain stirring fineness in the situation. And if that is so, how infinitely the
pathos and the fineness are enhanced by this thought: Every day in the year, in every country
in the world, some lad, somewhere, is gazing out toward life's horizon, just as I was, and
telling himself, even as I did, that he must start out upon his individual journey; for him
the most important of all the voyages ever undertaken since Adam and Eve set forth from their
garden. I suppose it is rarely that a long distance train enters a London terminal but what
one such lad steps forth from it, bent upon conquest, and, in how many cases, bound for defeat!
Even of Sydney the same thing was and is true, on a numerically smaller scale.

In all lands and in all times the outsetting is essentially the same: the same high hopes and
brave determinations; the same profound conviction of uniqueness; the same perfectly true and
justifiable inner knowledge that, for the individual, this journey is the most important in
all history. In many cases, of course, there are a mother's tears, a father's blessing, and
suchlike substitutes for the stirrup-cup. And, withal, in every single case, how absolutely
alone the young voyager really is, and must be! For our scientists have not as yet discovered
any means of precipitating the experience gleaned in one generation (or a thousand) into the
hearts and minds of another generation. Circumstances differ vastly, of course; but the central
facts are the same in every case; the traveller must always be alone. The adventure upon which
he sets out, be he prince or pauper, university graduate or 'inmate' of St. Peter's, is one
which cannot be delegated by him, or taken from him, for it is his own life; his and his alone,
to make or to mar, to perfect or to botch, to cherish or to waste, to convert into a fruitful
garden, or to relinquish, when his time comes, a sour and derelict plot of barrenness.

And this tremendous undertaking, with all its infinite potentialities of good and evil, joy
and agony, pride and despair, is in every country approached by somebody, by some one of our
own kind, every single morning, and has been down through the ages since time began, and will
be while time lasts. And there are folk who call modern life prosaic, dull, devoid of romance.
Romance! Why, in the older lands there is hardly a foot of road space that has not been trodden
at one time or another by youth or maid, in the crucial moment of setting out upon this amazing
adventure. There are men and women who drum their fingers on a window-pane after breakfast
of a morning, and yawn out their disgust at the empty dullness of life, the vacant boredom
of another day. And within a mile of them, as like as not, some one is setting forth--lips
compressed, brow knit--upon the great adventure. And, too, some one else is face to face with
the other great adventure--the laying down of life. Somewhere close to us every single morning
brings one or other, or both of these two incomparably romantic happenings.

Truly, to confess ennui, or make complaint of the dullness of life, is to confess to a sort
of creeping paralysis of the mind. To be weary is comprehensible enough. Yes, God knows I can
understand the existence of weariness or exhaustion. To be bored even is natural enough, if
one is bored by, say, forced inaction, or obligatory action of a futile, meaningless kind.
But negative boredom; to be uninterested, not because adverse circumstances confine you to
this or that barren and uncongenial milieu, but because you see nothing of interest in life
as a whole; because life seems to you a dull, empty, or prosaic business--that argues a kind
of blindness, a poverty of imagination, which amounts to disease, and, surely, to disease of
a most humiliating sort.

But this is digression of a sort I have not hitherto permitted myself in this record. To be
precise, I should say, it is digression of a sort which up till now has, when detected, been
religiously expunged--sent to feed my fire. Well, one has always pencils; the fire is generally
at hand; we shall see. After all, a great deal of one's life is made up of digressions.

VII

In the summer-time there were sharks in Myall Creek, but I had never seen them there in the
spring. It was, I think, still somewhere short of midnight when I stepped quietly out of the
low window of the room I shared with seven other orphans. (The house was all of one storey.)
I would have taken boots, but, excepting on visitors' Sundays, these were kept in a locked
cupboard in the sisters' building. My outfit consisted of a comparatively whole pair of trousers--not
those immortalised in Mr. Rawlence's sketch--a strong, short-sleeved shirt of hard, grey woollen
stuff, a dilapidated waistcoat, a belt, my little book of bush flowers and trees, and my one-pound
note. Oh, and an ancient grey felt hat with a large hole in the crown of it. That was all;
but I dare say notable careers have been started upon less; in cash, if not in clothing.

Beside the punt I hesitated for a few moments, half inclined to cross by that obvious means,
and leave Tim to do the swimming by daylight. Finally, however, I slipped off my clothes, tied
them in a bundle on my head, and stepped silently into the water, closely and interestedly
observed by one of the Orphanage watch-dogs, chained beside the landing-stage. If he had barked,
it would have been only from desire to come with me, in which case, to save trouble, I should
probably have become guilty of dog-stealing. The dogs were all good friends of mine.

The water was cold that spring night, but I was soon out of it, and using my shirt for a hard
rub down in the scrub beside the creek wharf. As a precaution I had waited for a moonless night,
and had made my exit with no more noise than was caused by one of the night birds or little
beasts that visited our island. I had seen maps, and knew the compass bearings of the locality.
My ultimate destination being Sydney, I turned to the southward, and stepped out briskly along
the track leading towards Milton, and away from Werrina.

That was the simple fashion of my outsetting into the world, and for a time I gave literally
no thought at all to its real significance. My recognition of it as the beginning of the great
adventure of independent life was temporarily obscured by my preoccupation with its detail.

At the end of a silent hour or two, when I suppose half a dozen miles lay between myself and
the Orphanage, the reflective faculties came into play again. I began to see my affair more
clearly, and to see it whole, or pretty nearly so. From that point onward, I put in quite a
good deal of steady thinking with regard to the future. I had two or three definite objects
in view, and the first of these was to reach as quickly as possible some point not less than
about fifty miles distant from Myall Creek, at which I could feel safe from any likely encounter
with a chance traveller from that district.

So much accomplished my plans represented in effect a pedestrian journey to Sydney. But I recognised
that the journey might occupy some time, since, in the course of it, I was to earn money and
then learn shorthand; the money, by way of working capital and insurance against accidents;
the shorthand, to furnish my stock-in-trade and passport in the metropolitan world. So mine
was not to be exactly a holiday walking tour. Yet I do not think any one could have set out
upon a holiday tour with more of zest than I brought to my tramping. My mood was not of gaiety,
rather it was one attuned to high and almost solemn emprise; but, yes, I was full of zest in
my walking.

An hour or so before daybreak I lay down on some dead fern at the foot of a huge and sombre
red mahogany tree, where the track forked. It was partly that I wanted a rest, and partly that
I was uncertain which track led to the township of Milton, where I purposed buying some food
before any chance word of my flight from the Orphanage could have travelled so far. The authorities
at the Orphanage were little likely to trouble themselves greatly over a runaway orphan; but
I cherished a hazy idea that in my case the matter might be somehow a little different, in
the same way that I had not been farmed out to any one in the district, possibly because in
receiving me St. Peter's had also received some money, certainly more than could be represented
by the cost of my maintenance. In any case, I did not want to take any unnecessary risks.

Two minutes after lying down I was asleep. When I waked the sun was clear of the horizon, and
I was partly covered over by dead bracken. The dawn hours had been chilly, and evidently I
had grappled the fern leaves to me in my sleep, as one tugs a blanket over one's shoulder,
without waking, when cold. While I was chuckling to myself over this, and picking the twigs
from my clothes, I heard the pistol-like crack of a bullock whip, and then, quite near at hand,
the cries of a 'bullocky,' as they called the bullock-drivers thereabout, full of morning-time
vehemence.

'Woa, Darkey! Gee, Roan! Baldy, gee! Nigger! Strawberry! Gee, now, Punch! I'll ----y well trim
you in a minute, me gentleman. Gee, Baldy; ye ----y cow, you!'

It was thus the unseen bushman discoursed to his cattle, and in a minute or two the horns of
his leaders, swaying slightly in their yoke, appeared at the bend of the track, the bolt-heads
in the yoke shining like bosses of silver in the slanting rays of the new-risen sun. Clearly
the wagon had been loaded overnight, for the huge tallow-wood log slung on it could hardly
have been placed in its bed since sun-up.

'I'm your ----y man, if it's Milton you want,' said the driver good-humouredly, in response
to my inquiries. 'I'm taking this stick into the Milton saw-mill. ----y solid stick, eh? My
oath, yes; there's not enough pipe in that feller to stick a ----y needle in. No, he ought
to measure up pretty well, I reckon.' A pause for expectoration, and then: 'Livin' in Milton?'

'No,' I told him, 'just travelling that way.' I flattered myself I had put just the right note
of nonchalance into what I knew was a typically familiar sort of phrase. But the bullocky eyed
me curiously, all the same, and I instantly made up my mind to part company with him at the
earliest convenient moment.

'You travel ----y light, sonny,' he said; 'but I suppose that's the easiest ----y way, when
all's said.'

'Yes,' I agreed, with fluent mendacity; 'I got tired of the swag, and I've not very far to
go anyway.'

'Ah! Where might ye be makin' for, then?' At this point I realised for the first time the grave
disadvantages of redundance in speech, of unnecessary verbiage. There had been no earthly need
for my last words, and now that my fatal fluency had found me out, for the life of me I could
not think of the name of a likely place. At length, with clumsily affected carelessness, I
had to say, 'Oh, just down south a bit from Milton.'

'H'm! Port Lawson way, like?' suggested the curious bullocky.

'Yes, that's it,' I said hurriedly. 'Port Lawson way.'

'Ah, well, I've got a brother works in the ----y saw-mills there. Ye'll maybe know him--Jim
Gray; big, slab-sided chap he is, with his nose sorter twisted like, where a ----y brumby colt
kicked him when he was a kid. ----y good thing for him it was a brumby, or unshod, anyway;
he'd a' bin in Queer Street else, I'm thinkin'. Jever meet him down that way?'

I admitted that I never had, but promised to look out for him.

'Aye, ye might,' said the bullocky. 'An', if ye see him, tell him ye met me--Bill's my name--Bill
Gray, ye see--an' tell him-- Oh, tell him I said to mind his ----y p's an' q's, ye know, an'
be good to his ----y self.'

I readily promised that I would, and our conversation lapsed for a time, while Bill Gray filled
his pipe, cutting the tobacco on the ball of his left thumb from a good-sized black plug. For
the rest of our walk together, I used extreme circumspection, and was able to confine our desultory
exchanges to such safe topics as the bullocks, the weather, the roads, and so forth, all favourite
subjects with bushmen. And then, as we drew near the one street of the little township, there
was the saw-mill, and my opportunity for bidding good-day to a too inquisitive companion.

'So long, sonny,' said he, in response to my salutation. 'Take care of your ----y self.' (His
favourite adjective had long ceased to have any meaning whatever for this good fellow. He now
used it even as some ladies use inverted commas, or other commas, in writing. And sometimes,
when he had occasion to use a word as long as, say, 'impossible,' he would actually drag in
the meaningless expletive as an interpolation between the first and second syllables of the
longer word, as though he felt it a sinful waste of opportunities to allow so many good syllables
to pass unburdened by a single enunciation of his master word.)

VIII

The freedom of the open road was infinitely delightful to me after the incessant task work
of St. Peter's. And perhaps this, quite as much as the policy of getting well away from the
Myall Creek district, was responsible for the fact that I held on my way, with never a pause
for work of any sort, through a whole week. My lodging at night cost me nothing, of course;
and the expenditure of something well under a shilling a day provided a far more generous dietary
than that to which St. Peter's had accustomed me. I began to lay on flesh, and to feel strength
growing in me.

Mere living, the maintenance of existence, has always been cheap and easy in Australia, where
an entirely outdoor life involves no hardship at any season. This fact has no doubt played
an important part in the development of the Australian national character. The Australian national
character is the English national character of, say, seventy or eighty years ago, subjected
to isolation from all foreign influences, and to general conditions much easier and milder
than those of England; given unlimited breathing-space, and freed from all pressure of confined
population; cut off also, to a very great extent, from the influence of tradition and ancient
institutions. For the lover of our British stock and the student of racial problems, I always
think that Australia and its people offer a field of unique interest.

I did not come upon Jim Gray, the slab-sided one, in Port Lawson, so was unable to bid him
mind his ensanguined p's and q's. Indeed, up to this point, I sternly repressed my social instincts,
and refrained, so far as might be, from entering into talk with any one. But after the third
day I began to feel that my freedom was assured, and that the chances of meeting any one from
the Orphanage neighbourhood were too remote to be worth considering. My tramping became then
so much the more enjoyable, for the reason that I chatted with all and sundry who showed sociable
inclinations, and at that time this included practically every wayfarer one met in rural Australia.
(There has been no great change in this respect.)

'The curse o' this country, my sonny boy,' said one red-bearded traveller whom I met and walked
with for some miles, 'is the near-enough system. It's a great country, all right; whips o'
room, good land, good climate, an' all the like o' that; but, you mark my words, the curse
of it is the "near-enough" system--that an' the booze, o' course; but mainly it's the "near-enough"
system, from the nail in your trousers in place of a brace button to the saplin's tied wi'
green-hide in place of a gate, an' the bloomin' agitator in parliament in place of a gentleman.
It's "near-enough" that crabs us, every time. Look at me! I owned a big store in Kempsey one
time. You wouldn't think it to look at me, would ye? Well, an' I didn't booze, either. But
it was "near-enough" in the accounts, an' "near-enough" in the buyin', an' "near-enough" in
the prices, an'--here I am, barely makin' wages--worse wages than I paid counter hands--cuttin'
sleepers. But I get me tucker out of it, an' me bitter 'baccy, an' that; an'---well, it's "near-enough,"
an' so I stick at it.'

It was on a Sunday morning of delicious brightness and virginal freshness that I reached the
irregularly spreading outskirts of Dursley, a pretty little town in Gloucester county, the
appearance of which, as I approached it from the highest point of the long ridge upon whose
lower slopes it lay, appealed to me most strongly. Do not answer me. Dad suffer an emotion
that perhaps cost him his life ... and could olvidárseme you're my brother.

- Each one does his duty as understood.

- Yes?

For date and warned: the Holy Viaticum, the rogue has the farolón and you ... I throw down
the stairs.

- We'll see!

Pepe, overcoming his anger, he tried to speak calmly and, feeling cold blood Tirso boasted that,
wanted to show equal serenity.

- I was afraid this scene, but I will not dodge it ... When you come to Madrid, and climbing
you entered the railway station Santa Maria, staying there a long time, without any rush to
meet your parents, because it appears that they do not know him, I guessed what would be your
fanaticism, but I never imagined that followed the fight. Then, given your background and seeing
hidden live at home as a criminal, I suspect that had come to Madrid for business that were not
yours ... Remember, except the first exit at twilight made the afternoon of the day you came
only after many days you venture out into the Street, after two or
three visits to the gentleman who came to see you, when you know I
was already fulfilled your mission.

You see I've followed step by step.

I noticed your effort not to speak to us of certain things, because I loathe our ideas about politics
war and trabucaires priests, and, finally, I have endured your mom to turn tricks and what you
intend to quarrel Miller and Leo ... In short, I know you thoroughly. You, however, do not
know what I'm capable.

- What?

- Yes, it is not credible, Dad, spontaneously asked some aid, I am the first to respect their will.
But, understand well, if you bring confessor, per diem ... come on, any nonsense that can scare
you and cause disease in a dangerous crisis, I swear, by my mother and the love of women to whom
I will not treat you as a brother. Your behavior depends on my prudence. We finished!

- Everyone will meet its obligation.

- Abur! - And Pepe, walking
on tiptoe, got into his room.

Tirso a while he stood alone in the room, pensive and motionless:
the lamp, expiring, dismissed Suddenly two or three sparks of the
wick, and dry, the quake caused light on the wall convulsively shaking
it in the shadow of the priest, and then he, looking almost felt for
the door of her bedroom, lit a candle and, after praying their prayers,
lay down, but took a long time sleep.

The energy of his brother had completely baffled: Pepe was a better
man than he imagined.

The next morning, Dona Manuela, before going shopping, as usual, went for a Pepe kiss, as he had
dressed to leave for work.

- I'm going to buy, bye, son.

- And to Mass, right, Mom?

She, smiling warmly, saying only:

- What's wrong with that?

- In that, nothing, but, hey, mama. Last night I had one clinging to Tirso, the thing had to
happen, and came. I suppose you will have spoken of certain projects that attempted, on dad,
you imagine the effect produced. Told my brother, imponle sanity, because I am willing everything.

Tirso
not fulfilled their threats, nor be altered again by then, the quiet
of the house; but both brothers realized that this quiet, violent
energy obtained by one and the apparent submission of another, was
not lasting peace, but a temporary truce.

XIX

Dear Pepe: Imagine
how upset I'll be: four days since we've seen, and rabies to quarrel
with you. Silly, silly me, did you think you know I had not find your
sorrows to share? The guy you have said, surely the questions you
did and how I answered. I am convinced that all told you. You can
not imagine the grace I made her disinterest. Do you forgive me to
bribe your servers? I, however, will not forgive you your lack of
candor. The gentleman spoke by the aid, not alone of his mouth,
but of his small, bright, twinkling eyes, his twitching, almost hairless brows, his hands and
shoulders, and his whole, rosy, clean-shaved, multitudinously lined, puckered, and dimpled
face. And then his words; the extraordinary manner in which he twisted and juggled with the
longer and less familiar of them--arboreal, peripatetic, matutinal, and the like! He had an
entirely independent and original way of pronouncing very many words, and of converting certain
phrases, such as 'young fellow my lad,' into a single word of many syllables. I never met any
one who could so clearly convey hyphens (or dispense with them) by intonation.

Having passed through a small gateway, I skirted the side of a comfortable-looking house of
the spreading, bungalow type, with wide verandahs; and so, by way of a shaded path, arrived
at the foot of the big cedar, just as the rosy-faced gentleman reached the ground from his
stairway.

'Well-timed, young peripatater,' he said, with a chuckling smile. I noticed as he reached the
earth that he walked with a peculiar, rolling motion of the body. He certainly was stout. There
were no angles about him anywhere, nothing but rotundity. Withal, and despite the curious,
rotary gait, there was a suggestion of quickness and of well-balanced lightness about all his
movements. His hands and feet I thought quite remarkably small. There was a short section of
the bole of a large tree, with a flattened base, lying on the ground near the stairway. The
gentleman subsided upon this airily, as though it had been made of eider-down, and, crossing
his pyjamed legs, beamed upon me, where I stood before him.

'Peripatacious by habit, what might your name be, youngfellermelad?'

I told him, and he repeated it after me, twice, with a distinct licking of his lips, suggestive
of the act of deliberate wine-tasting.

'Good. Yes. Ah! Nicholas Freydon, Nick to his friends, no doubt. Quite a mellifluant name.
Nicholas Freydon. Tssp! Very good. You'd hardly think now that my name was George Perkins,
would you? Don't seem exactly right, does it?--not Perkins. But that's what it is; and it's
a significacious name, too, in Dursley, let me tell you. But that's because of the meaning
I've given to it. But for that, it's certainly an unnatural sort of a name for me. Perkins
is a name for a thin man, with a pointed nose, no chin, a wisp of hair over his forehead, and
an apron. Starch, rice, tapioca: a farinatuous name, of course. But there it is; it happens
to be the name of Dursley's Omnigerentual and Omniferacious Agent, you see; and that's me.
Tssp! Wharejercomefrom, Nickperry, or Peripatacious Nick?'

The idea of using precautions with or attempting to deceive this rosily rotund 'character'
seemed far-fetched and absurd. I not only told him I came from Myall Creek, but also named
the Orphanage.

'Ah! I'm an orphantulatory one myself. You absquatulated, I presume; a levantular movement
at midnight--ran away, hey?'

I admitted it, and Mr. Perkins nodded in a pleased way, as though discovering an accomplishment
in me.

'That's what I did, too; not from an orphanage, but from the paternal roof and shop. My father
was a pedestrialatory specialist, a shoemaker, in fact, and brought me up for that profession.
But I gave up pedestriality, finding omniferaciousness more in my line. Matter of temperment,
of course--inward, like that, with an awl, you know, or outward, like that'--he swung his fat
arms wide--'as an omnigerentual man of affairs: an Agent. I'm naturally omnigerentual; my father
was awlicular or gimletular--like a centre-bit, y'know. Tssp! So you like Dursley, hey? Little
town takes your fancy as you see it from the ridge? Kinduv cuddlesome and umbradewus, isn't
it? Yes, I felt that way myself when I came here looking for pedestrial work--repairs a speciality,
y' know. Whatsorterjobjerwant?'

I found that Mr. Perkins usually wound up his remarks with a question which, irrespective of
its length, was generally made to sound like one word. The habit affected me as the application
of a spur affects a well-fed and not unwilling steed. I did not resent it, but it made me jump.
On this occasion I explained to the best of my ability that I wanted whatever sort of job I
could get, but preferably one that would permit of my doing a little work on my own account
of an evening.

'Ha! Applicacious and industrial--bettermentatious ambitions, hey? Quite right. No good sticking
to the awlicular if you've anything of the embraceshunist in you.' He embraced his own ample
bosom with wide-flung arms, as a London cabman might on a frosty morning. 'Man is naturally
multivorous--when he's not a vegetable. Howjerliketerworkferme?'

'Very much indeed,' said I, rising sharply to the spur.

'H'm! Tssp!' It is not easy to convey in writing any adequate idea of this 'Tssp' sound. 

Dam more terror, Don Fabrizio fled, calling aloud to the steward and other servants; but nobody came
to his aid, and toured the galleries shouting that echoed in the vaults of the stately mansion.

-
Antonio, Bernardo, July, Gilberto! shouted, but nobody wanted to
answer, and true fear down, we can say he shot, the stairs and ran
to call the concierge.

Big hits gave at her door with both hands, but no one heard their desperate voices of terror.

He
approached the entrance of the palace and tried to open the bronze door that closed, but try as
he did, he could not get moving an inch, and finally, in desperation,
conceived the idea of ​​going out through the bars, because I wanted
to leave that all costs home.

As we have said, Mr. Fabrizio was extremely thin, and decided to try to pass the body on that
side of the fence, where the bars were more slender and therefore there was more space between
them.

The next morning, a huge competition of onlookers crowded the entrance to the palace. Prince's
head, bruised and broken, was trapped between two bars, and eyes
saltándosele orbits, seemed to look with terror at the board, in which
Ghiberti decapitation was masterfully carved Hugo de Portinaris by
the ruthless Orlando Dummy operations.

PRACTICAL MAN

A AGUSTIN BASAVE.

                 

The Father Minister of the House of Novices of the Society of Jesus was a toddler Espadaler of
red face, white hair and smiling expression. It was said that in his youth had treatment with
the Muses, but if such was the case, no remnant of it guessed in Padre Hurtado. The Father Minister,
a holy man if any, was above all a practical man; tests be gave a thousand times, to the point
of having this quality of his proverbial, not only among the community but throughout the region. Seems
useless to say that this establishment going admirably, as befitted the great institution that was
a part.

A cheerful morning in June, when Father Ministers noted with satisfaction that the consumer of potatoes
in the last month was much smaller than the corresponding previous
year a light touch on his door came to interrupt their work.

- Adelante!
he exclaimed.

Source Brother turned the doorknob and said:

- Father Minister, a
man wants to speak.

Padre Hurtado, enemy of lobbies, slightly furrowed brow, but he answered;

- That happens.

A few moments later, he had an individual, a description is useless
to do, then was like thousands of others: for forty years or so, apparently
healthy and poor, as that money, as the saying goes, can not be concealed.

-
Good morning, Father.

- Good God gives to us.

What is offered?

Padre Hurtado, come to see you because I find myself
in difficult situations. I have nothing to eat.
Bella--I learned subsequently that the cow, when a young heifer, had been given this name by
Mr. Perkins, because she distinguished herself by bellowing incessantly for a whole night--proved
a singularly amiable beast. I was light-handed, and a fair milker, I believe. Still, my hands
were strange to Bella; yet she gave down her milk most generously, and, though standing in
the open, without bail or leg-rope, never stirred till the foaming pail was three parts full,
and her udder dry. It was something of a revelation to me, for our cows at St. Peter's had
been rough scrub cattle, and had been left to pick up their own living for the most part; whereas
Bella was aldermanic, a monument of placid satiety.

I very carefully deposited the pail inside the scullery entrance, and withdrew then to a respectful
distance, with Bella. Would this amazing Mr. Perkins engage me? There was no doubt in my mind
that I hoped he would. I had seen practically nothing of the place, and my impressions of it
must all have been produced by the personality of its owner, I suppose. But it did seem to
me that this establishment possessed an atmosphere of cheery kindliness and jollity such as
I had never before found about any residence. The contrast between this place and St. Peter's
was extraordinarily striking. I wondered what Sister Agatha would have made of Mr. Perkins,
or he of Sister Agatha. 'Acidulacious' was the word he would have applied to Sister Agatha,
I thought, with a boy's readiness in mimicry; and I chuckled happily to myself in the thinking.

IX

While I stood in the yard cogitating, a woman whose white-spotted blue dress was for the most
part covered by a very white apron emerged from the scullery door, holding one hand over her
eyes to shade them from the morning sun.

'Ha!' she said, in a managing tone; 'so you're the new lad, are you?' I smiled somewhat bashfully,
this being a question I was not yet in a position to answer definitely. 'Well, you're to come
into breakfast anyhow, and be sure and rub your boots on the-- Oh, you haven't any. Well, rub
your feet, then. Come on! I must see to my fire.'

So I followed her through the scullery (a spacious and airy place) into the kitchen, having
first carefully rubbed the dust off my horny soles on the door-mat. And then, with a boy's
ready adaptability in the matter of meals, I gave a good account of myself behind a plate of
bacon and eggs, with plentiful bread and butter and tea, though I had broken my fast in the
bush an hour or two earlier by polishing off the sketchy remains of the previous night's supper,
washed down by water from a bright creek.

Domestic capability was the quality most apparent in my breakfast companion. Her age, I should
say, was nearer fifty than forty, but she was exceedingly well-preserved; and she was called,
as she explained when we sat down, Mrs. Gabbitas. That in itself, I reflected, probably recommended
her warmly to Mr. Perkins. (I guessed in advance that he might refer to the lady as the Gabbitacious
one; and he did, more than once, in my hearing.)

'Nick Freydon's your name, I'm told. Oh, well, that's all right then.'

Mrs. Gabbitas always spoke, not alone as one having authority, but, and above all, as one who
managed all affairs, things, and people within her reach, as indeed she did to a great extent.
A most capable and managing woman was Mrs. Gabbitas. I adopted an air of marked deference towards
her, I remember; in part from motives of policy, and partly too because her capability really
impressed me. Before the bacon was finished we had become quite friendly. I had learned that
my hostess had a full upper set of artificial teeth--quite a distinction in those days--and
that on a certain occasion, I forget now at what exact period of her life, she had earned undying
fame by being called upon by name, from the pulpit of her chapel, to rise in her place among
the congregation and sing as a solo the anthem beginning: 'How beautiful upon the mountains!'
I gathered now and later that this remarkable event formed in a sense the pivot upon which
Mrs. Gabbitas's career turned. Having spent all her life in Australia, she had not been presented
at Court; but, alone, unaccompanied, and from her place among the chapel congregation, she
had, in answer to the minister's call, made one service historic by singing 'How beautiful
upon the mountains!' It was a pious and pleasant memory, and I admit the story of it did add
to her dignity in my eyes. Her false teeth, though admittedly a distinction at that period,
did not precisely add to her dignity. They were somehow too mobile, too responsive in front
to the forces of gravitation, for a talkative woman.

'Has he given you a name yet?' she asked, as we rose from the table, giving her head a jerk
as she spoke in the direction of the little pantry, in which I gathered there was a revolving
hatch communicating with the dining-room.

'Well, he called me "Nickperry,"' I said, 'or "Peripatacious Nick."'

'Ah! Yes, that sounds like one of his,' she said, apparently weighing the name and myself,
not without approval. 'There's nothing nor nobody he hasn't got some name for. He don't miscall
me to me face, for I'd allow no person to do such. But in speakin' to Missis, I've heard him
refer to me with some such nonsensical words as "Gabbitular" and "Gabbitaceous," or some such
rubbish, although no one wouldn't ever think such a thing of me--nobody but him, that is. But
he means no harm, y'know. There's no more vice in the man than--than in Bella there.'

She pointed with a wooden spoon toward the open window, through which we could see the red
cow, still contentedly chewing over the memories of her last meal.

'No, there's no harm in him, or you may be sure I wouldn't be here; but he's a great character,
is Mr. Perkins; a regler case, he is, an' no mistake. Well, this won't get my kitchen cleaned
up--and Sunday morning, too! You might take out that bucket of ashes for me. You'll find the
heap where they go down in the little yard behind the stable. There now! That's what comes
o' talkin'! If I didden forget to ask a blessin', an' you an orphan, too, I believe! F'what
we've received. Lor', make us truly thangful cry-say-carmen--Off you go!'

Her eyes were screwed tightly shut while the words of the gabbled invocation passed her lips,
and opened widely as, with its last mysterious syllables, she dropped the wooden spoon she
had been holding and turned to her fire. The fire was always 'my' fire to worthy Mrs. Gabbitas.
So was the kitchen, for that matter, the scullery, the pantry, and all the things that therein
were. Indeed, she frequently spoke of 'my' dining-room table, bedrooms, silver, front hall,
windows, and the like. Even the meals served to Mr. and Mrs. Perkins were, until eaten, 'my
dining-room breakfast,' 'my dining-room tea,' and so forth.

On my way back from the ash-heap with Mrs. Gabbitas's bucket, I almost collided with Mr. Perkins,
as he rolled swiftly and silently into view from round the end of the rustic pergola, between
the house yard and the big cedar.

'Aha! The Peripatacious one! Tssp! Yes. Mrs. Perkins wants a word with you, youngfellermelad.
Come on this way. She's on the front verandah.'

I found myself involuntarily seeking to emulate Mr. Perkins's remarkable method of locomotion.
But I might as well have sought to mimic an albatross or a balloon. It was not only his splendid
rotundity which I lacked. The difference went far beyond that. He had oiled castors running
on patent ball bearings, and I was but the ordinary pedestrian youth.

We found Mrs. Perkins reclining on a couch on the front verandah, a very gaily coloured dust-rug
covering the lower part of her figure. Like many people in Australia she could hardly be classified
socially; or, perhaps, I should say she did not possess in any marked form the characteristics
which in England are associated with this or that social grade. If there was nothing of the
aristocrat about her, it might be said that she was not in the least typically 'middle-class';
and I am sure the severest critic would have hesitated to say that hers were the manners, disposition,
or outlook of any 'lower' class. Yet she had married an itinerant cobbler, or at best a 'pedestrialatory
specialist,' and, I am sure, without the smallest sense of taking a derogatory step.

Mrs. Perkins was the more a revelation to me perhaps, because, as it happened, Mrs. Gabbitas
had said nothing whatever about her. I learned presently that she had not stood upon her feet
for more than ten years. I was never told the exact nature of the disease from which she suffered,
but I know she had lost permanently the use of her legs, and that she was not allowed to sit
up in a chair for more than an hour at a time. She never moved anywhere without her husband.
He carried her from one room to another, and at times to different parts of the garden; always
very skilfully, and without the slightest appearance of exertion. I think it likely she did
not weigh more than six or seven stone. Whenever I saw her carried, there was always draped
about her a gaily coloured rug or large shawl; and she was for ever smiling, or actually laughing,
or making some quaintly humorous little remark. I wondered sometimes if she had borrowed her
playfulness in speech from her husband, or if he had borrowed from her. I do not think I ever
met a happier pair.

'So here you are!' she said, as we drew near. Her tone suggested that my coming were the arrival
of a very welcome and long-looked-for guest. 'You see, Nick, I am so lazy that I never go to
any one; and people are so kind that every one comes to me, sooner or later.'

I experienced a desire to do something graceful and chivalrous, and did nothing, I suspect,
but grin awkwardly and shuffle my toes in the dust. It seemed to me clumsy and rude to stand
erect before this crippled little lady, yet impossible to adopt any other attitude. Mr. Perkins
had subsided, softly as a down cushion, on the edge of the verandah. But he had no angles,
and I had no curves. Mr. Perkins removed his hat and caressingly polished that glistening orb,
his head, with a large rainbow-hued handkerchief.

'You see, Insect,' he said, beaming upon his wife, 'this young feller, Nickperry, an orphantual
lad, as I explained, has taken a fancy to Dursley.'

'And you've taken a fancy to Nickperry, I suppose--as you call him.'

The master waved his fat arms to demonstrate his aloofness from fancies. 'Well, we want a new
handy lad,' he said; 'and this peripatacious young chap comes strolling along just as Bella
wants milking. The Gabbitual one says he's all right.' This is an elaborate stage aside.

'And how did Bella behave, Nick?' asked the mistress.

'She gave down her milk very nicely--madam,' I said, conscious of a blush over the matter of
addressing this little lady.

'Merely a passing weakness for the servileacious, inherited from feudalising ancestors,' said
Mr. Perkins in an explanatory tone to his wife. And then to me: 'This is Missis Perkins, Nickperry,
not "Madam." When you want to speak to the Missis, you must always come and find her, because
she don't get about much, do you, Pig-an'-Whistle?'

One of the points of difference between husband and wife, in their spoken whimsicalities, was
that the man had no sense of shame and the wife had. Mr. Perkins was no respecter of persons.
He would have addressed his wife as 'Blow-fly,' or 'Sossidge,' or 'Piggins,' or by any of the
ridiculous names of the sort that he affected, in the presence of the queen or his own handy
lad. I have overheard similar expressions of playful ribaldry upon his wife's lips many a time,
but never when I was obviously and officially in their presence.

'And what about pay, Nickperry? How do you stand now on the wages question? What did the Drooper
start on, Whizz?' This last question was addressed to Mrs. Perkins, whose real name, as I learned
later--never once heard upon her husband's lips--was Isabel.

'Eight shillings,' replied Mrs. Perkins. 'But, of course, wages have risen a good bit since then.'

'Yes, yes; the gas of the agitators does sometimes serve to inflate wages; I'll say that for
the beggars. What do you say, Nickperry?'

'Well, si--Mister Perkins----'

'He always calls me "Smister." It's a friendly way they have in England, like the eye-glass
and the turned-up trousers.'

In her smile Mrs. Perkins managed to convey merriment, sympathy for me as the person chaffed,
and humorous disapproval of her husband. I would gladly have worked for her for nothing, for
admiration of her bright eyes.

'I was going to say that I'd be willing to work for whatever you liked, till you saw whether
I suited you or not,' I managed to explain.

Mrs. Perkins nodded approvingly, and her husband said: 'That's a very fair offer. You have
an engagious way with you, Nickperry; and so we'll engage you at ten bob and all found for
a start. How's that, Whizkers?'

The mistress assented pleasantly, and added: 'You'll tell Mrs. Gabbitas to see to the room,
George, won't you, and--and to give Nickperry what he needs? She will understand. I dare say
he'd like a bath.'

I blushed red-hot at this, but Mrs. Perkins kindly refrained from looking my way, and the interview
ended. Then, like a dinghy in the wake of a galleon, I followed my new employer to the rearward
parts of the establishment.

X

I used to tell Heron, and others who came into my later life, that the happiest days I ever
knew were the 'ten bob a week and all found' days of my handy-lad time. It was very likely
true, I think; though really it is next door to impossible for any man to tell which period
in his life has been the more happy; and especially is this so in the case of the type of man
who finds more interest in the past than in the future. The other side of the road always will
be the cleaner, the trees on the far side of the hill will always be the greener, for a great
many of us. Any other time seems preferable before the present moment, to some folk; and to
many, times past are in every sense superior to anything the future can have to offer.

At all events I was fortunate in the matter of my first situation, and I was contented in it,
being satisfied that it was an excellent means to an end which I had decided should be very
fine indeed.

I have never yet been able to make up my mind whether I am like or unlike to the majority of
mankind in this: with me every phase of life, every occupation, every effort, almost every
act and thought have been regarded, not upon their own merits or in relation to themselves,
but as means to ends. The ends, it always appeared, would prove eminently desirable; they would
give me my reward. The ends, once they were attained, would certainly bring me peace, happiness,
fame, health, enjoyment, leisure, monetary gain, or whatever it was they were designed to bring.
I am still uncertain whether or not the bulk of my fellow-men are similarly constituted; but
I am tolerably certain that one misses a great deal in life as the result of having this kind
of a mind.

To a great extent, for example, one misses whatever may be desirable in the one moment of time
of which we are all sure--the present. One is not spared the worries and anxieties of the present,
because they seem to have their definite bearing upon the end in view. The year 1560 was taken prisoner
Turkish, in Gelves. Taken to Constantinople, and put the oar in a galley loaded materials for
the Sultan's Palace, was one of those who killed the guards with stones, fleeing to Sicily
with the ship.

Continued in the habit of stalking and shooting attacks and bites, had made a gesture Instant
resolution energetic eyes. Eyes gray bird of prey, hard eyes where yet the embers sparking his pride,
as in the days when he dragged his Castilian spurred by the slabs
of Naples.

History was a string of more or less honorable deeds, but full of
haughty indolence not seeking out the kind of soldier, wearing the
old squire and invoking the glove the task quiet streets accompanied
by the ladies of the nobility.

In addition to the sets of their own existence, the maids contábales snippets of books horses,
as well as fabulous traditions of Avila and Segovia. Knew songs barbers and walkers, all life
on the Moor Abindarraez verse, and countless letrillas who sang with
husky voice, the sound of a guitar, turning the eyelids to mimic the
blind.

Fiera, pale scar noted at the top his bronzed face the sea.

That afternoon, only he was seated in the chest and made some gossip refer the market, one
of the girls, running her own finger over his eyebrows and asked,

- Said, sir Medrano: Who I carved this wreath?

The squire dropped eyes for a moment without answering, and taking from his wallet of a sheepskin
red canvas, Sonos noses with him. This movement was sometimes tedious
ad narrative.

The boy, now supported on the knee of former soldier, played with
his sword, as usual, edges groping, poking the spots on the leaf,
or brandishing it before him, with child arrogance, but he noticed
the man thoughtfully, steel knelt on the floor and supporting both
hands on the thick handle, prepared to listen.

Medrano began to scowl. It was an old episode of Gelves disaster. He spoke slowly, with an
accent similar to the sound of a drummer intemperate, and more than once their eyes were wet
to remember the shame of that day.

Described the disorder and from the ships to come on quickly Christian Navy turquesco. They ran
aground on the shoals, those, wanting to escape quickly, broke their
lateen yard, others were delivered without a fight.

He, for the sake of his honor, was in the strong.

He was then the horrors of the siege, unknown diseases, injuries monstrous, hunger, thirst!
He spoke of soldiers who escaped at night to eat the bodies of the Turks; of crazed women, tearing
each other's breasts bites; Spanish mothers that their creatures were thrown from the top of the
walls. When General Don Alvaro de Sande worked his disastrous exit, he was the chosen to accompany
him.

He had stood up to better describe those moments of desperate struggle.

-
Since we were arriving at the gallows - he said .-- The Moors musketeers,
after consuming all gunpowder, could not offended, stopped by our
picks, but one of them, something not believe, hincose he himself
in the belly of mine, and giving in this way several steps strung,
as I say, managed to reach me and long story, worse luck for that!,
a good whore gash on the forehead.

    Leave it! - Finally exclaimed, his face altered by rancor, and sitting
again in the chest.

One of the maids Canturri:

The Gelves, mother, are not good to take!

But the former soldier said without hearing:

- When Christianity
Be seen free of these allies of the devil!

At times I say: who another, if necessary, be achieved now that lack
contenellos Don Juan, that of Lepanto?

Upon hearing that last sentence, Ramiro, away from the squire and raising his sword, "said with
amazing expression:

- As to that, I have to do the same as a Don Juan, if I said King.

Some maids smiled and the boy, looking at his face, cried again, hitting foot in the flooring:

-
I have to do the same, I say and even more I do, with the help of God and the Virgin!

Meanwhile, behind him, the stairwell door had just opened and a beautiful woman extremely pale,
dressed all in black, entered the room.

Dona was Giomar, the Ramiro's mother.

His eyes fosforescían in the gloom like wet with recent tears, and his voice, a bell too low
perhaps modulated with severe tenderness:

- As I have said before, Medrano, who has no need desto Ramiro fanfare. Why did have given
the sword?

       

The boy turned his face towards her, came forward to answer:

- That would not, mother, and I took it with deception.

- Others
will be, my son - then the tearful woman said - the weapons you have
to wield when you enter the service of God and His Holy Church, and
were better fed now, upon your hands a book of religion that does
that iron.

Callose an instant, and the child, seeing her eyes carried the crumpled
handkerchief, dropped to point the sword, and ran toward her,

- Why
this weeping? - The question.

- No, my son - said the mother, dominated
by grief .-- Conduéleme a new sad others.

We will not return to see Mother Teresa de Ahumada ... Entered into the joy of the Lord as a
saint Antiy in Alba de Tormes.

A murmur of groans and sighs arose in the darkness of the room. Some women sobbed.

* * * * *

The sun had just set, and soft, slow, parishes played prayers. Was a choir, a bell singers
continuous crying, moaning bells in the quiet twilight.

It seemed as though the city was all smooth, metallic, vibrant, and sounded like one bronze in the transport
of her prayer.

Doña Guiomar, dropping on his knees, sang aloud the words of the Angelus. All imitating its movement,
prepared to respond.

The Hail Marys stammered squire lifted his face and palms together as children.

The windows open, leaving a peace penetrate dim and the first breath of sleeping pill night.

II

Iñigo de la Hoz and his daughter Guiomar Avila settled in the year of 1570, coming from Valsaín,
near Segovia, where they had their inheritance. The trip was abruptly solved, and a rainy morning
October, greenish rubber float, without bell or rattle collars, entered the city, the Market
Gate Grande, an hour after sunrise.

Since then the father and daughter in Avila led a life of mystery, leaving only very tomorrow,
covered chairs, to attend, each by hand, morning Mass in some of the neighboring churches.

The old site used for housing, which together with three hundred acres of land in the Valley-Amblés,
inherited the gentleman of his wife Dona Brianda del Aguila, was situated on a square, a few
steps from the door of misfortune.

Square masonry tower rising in the southeast corner, cutting the sky its imposing Moorish crown
of battlements and turrets. Mole was a haughty and sullen, stained with reddish patches of a crust
similar to rust. The narrow prison windows pierced random, and a beaded trim, which seemed to
symbolize the rosary adorned the base of the four booths and one or sill. The rest of the mansion
was mean and semi-barbarous. Large stones irregular retostadas by the sun, looking up through
the mortar of the walls. Near the ground, an oblique loophole, like
the eye of big lock, had served in the past to defend the door with
arrows.

The grills were rough and sad.

The front covered almost the entire width of the tower. Was one of those covers emphatic and aristocratic,
so common in Avila de los Caballeros. Formed the lintel huge segments of a single piece, open semi-circle
and rectangular framed by Gothic trim. On either side, each of the spandrels, a carved crest alternated
in their quarters the arms of the Avileses main families: the bird of the Eagles, the roundels of
Blázques the winch and the deck of the Bracamontes. Studded nails beautiful woodwork of the
door and a knocker chiseled, ripped perhaps some Andalusian palace, hung from the gate. To
the right, another top latch was used to call from the horse without
getting off.

In the hallway, compared to a Virgin package, the Son died on the slopes, a lantern burning continuously.

The
spacious courtyard was a rectangle, framed by cloistered galleries, without further ornament
that large coats of arms carved on pinnacles. Grew thick and tall grass everywhere, respect,
only, one covered space for the remains of broken slabs that just scattered in the grass, suggested
in the ossuary of dilapidated convent.

The gentleman never thought of repairing the abandonment of that place,
where he was idling, as in uncultivated countryside.

Sometimes they came and went in the sun, swatting butterflies in their path; others, spent
hours looking out the whole rotten old well curb, digging thoughts and watching, while his
own face that water in your mirror reflected circular and deep. Those galleries seemed to imprison
for stubborn old memories, and the air itself was pinned between them, as steeped in quiet rural monastic
silence.

The father and daughter only lived in the upstairs of the mansion. The majesty and carelessness
prevailed at par in the rooms. Along the dusty walls, where the Flemish tapestries obscurely deployed
his fables, hung or supported old family portraits and all Furniture aristocratic class, some
found in the house and others brought in by the gentleman Valsaín. When walking through the halls, tiles,
broken or loose, rang under the carpet Turkey.

Canopy of cloth of gold and brocade, dust and cobwebs that crammed into its folds antique beds adorned
hereditary gnawed by worms. The windows are rarely opened time, but rich silver censers hongoso
and conceal the stink with their constant mousy incense.

Locked from dawn until night in the library of the palace, Don Inigo
let slip idle time, meditating or reading.

Segovia had brought a large collection of chronicles of Spain, much romance, not a few of devotion,
The Epistles of Seneca, De Oficiis Cicero, a Sallust, a Valerius Maximus, a Virgil and some treatises
on mathematical celestial more of an armillary sphere with brass zodiac. Agregábanse printed and
manuscripts was found in the house, including big books appeared several Arabic, which made burn
at first, in the yard, in the presence of a canon of the cathedral.

Soon the volumes piled on the floor. Body that the gentleman took into their hands almost never
returned to the shelves. Why? We were so few years! Gout attacks are repeated, each time closer and
a hidden evil and feverish he was drying rebut the radical moisture and hypochondria. Sometimes
drowsiness overcame him, his mouth ajar let out a whispered nightmare,
as if the heat did sleep in his brain bubbling representations of
their past existence.

He always wore black or brown, with no other gala that worships gold
and red scull Santiago, embroidered tunics and Ferreruela all.

In winter, to meet the former rules of their order, using only modest lambskin leather. Lent by
fasting two years: one from the date of Quatour Coronatorum until
Christmas Day, another from Shrove Sunday until Easter.

It was her slender body, his face sallow, as if made of roots. The short mustache, black still
Cinderella contrasted with his chin. His eyes were glassy, ​​monastic,
sorry. His humor bleak.

Believed descended from a king of Aragon, and had traced his name, etymologically, to a Roman consul.
The book named Segovia calf always some ancestor in annual raids
of the Knights against the Moors of Jaén, Seville, Andújar.

       

Until the fifty-two years old, ignoring all work as unworthy of his hands noblemen, and living exclusively
from censuses of their lands and gold shields, one by one, was pulling out of a chest, took a life
of leisure and retirement in his possession Valsaín or in "Casa de los Picos" in Segovia, without
further injury to their wedding package with a lady illustrious family of Avila, one year after
marriage, she died in childbirth. But just outbreak of the rebellion of the Moors, in late
1568, Don Inigo, feeling your blood boil the atavistic anger, met one day at home to friends
and relatives with eloquent demostroles reasons the imperative duty
to assist the sovereign against those infidel dogs.

Many resolved accompany him. Then turned much of their wealth to build, at its expense, a true
retinue, as the ancient noblemen.

Under the command of the Marquis of Mondéjar, señalose in the fray by uncontrollable anger, more
than once might get you killed, throwing all alone among the enemy, in the rage of persecution. He
preached out war and general castration.

It was he who had discovered the famous leader Djahvar Aben, through terrible tortures two weapons
caches in Sierra Nevada.

In the step of Alfajarali received through the front puntazo a curved knife that a Moor, of those
who fought crowned with roses as a sign of martyrdom, he jumped off away. But in the toughest of
the season, had to retire to his estate, unhoused by a terrible attack of gout, shortly after
receiving the habit of Santiago, in payment for their services.

Until the last years of his life used to console himself for his biggest regrets remembering episodes
of that fierce vintage of the Alpujarra.

* * * * *

Had inherited from their elders the heroic sense of honor and a lordly contempt all the cares
of interest and profit. Both Avila and Segovia, disdaining the administration one's personal
finances, he delivered in full, with the keys to their coffers and roles the steward, a butler
flamenco, whose probity believed ensure, from time to time, by a
demonstration of trust and a chivalrous another aphorism of items.

Madrigal out of wine, stored in skins Tabernil, a provision was not at home, and continuously,
the servants went to credit market in the neighborhood what was needed.

The troubles of money does not occur soon, but the gentleman, whose pride would not accept the
humiliations of the economy, was one to one pawning his possessions to the Genoese. If haste
was great, was down a carpet, to negotiate a gem or pay certain expenses
innumerable pieces of dishes, which dishes, cast in the mines of America,
made Currency easily sometimes enormous.

He was, however, enough sober. Bacon broth, that was served in a bowl with a padlock to protect
him from the voracity of the pages, an egg, and a pastry filled with minced meat with pebre,
sufficed to any of your snacks. Some Friday, as a ritual act, drank a cup of wine and tasted
a few bites of pork, for distinguished from the Moors and Jews.

III

Guiomar and Don Inigo looked only at meal times and dinner. The old man sitting at the head,
and her daughter, to one end of the table, including Ramiro and Chaplain, remained all the time
without speaking. In the midst of agonizing silence, any rumor, the clash of the silver, the
footsteps of a page, the cry of hawkers on the street, took on a
solemn echo.

Upon waking, when the drop is so spoiled, some moments the old man walking along the block. Guiomar
and son huddled next to the brazier.

Could hear the ticking of a dial. No one spoke.

Could not be said, at first, if it was a dislike hidden or shared grief as that motivated the reservation.
Informing each other by means of the easement.

To Guiomar his room, immediately to the chapel, had cell austerities, and he crossed the other
rooms seemed to visit a strange house, leaving behind as floating anguish. His freshness of times,
and the same brightness of his eyes, then held for wink picky, all escaped prematurely from
his face, soaked by sorrow, and black nun banished forever colored taffeta petticoat and the
funny adolescence.

Before she was fifteen, Don Inigo had promised in marriage to his
cousin Lope de Alcántara, who bound him, out of fraternal affection,
a noble emulation loyalty and sacrifice.

Lope was such a gentleman in his fifties of wretched face, and adorned only the most severe virtues.
The maiden felt for him invincible repugnance but unable to face the brunt of his father's encouragement,
she resigned herself to be offered as a tribute copy of that friendship,
which was already mentioned by everyone in Segovia.

Like all squires, vedáronla early reading books of chivalry that abounded in the house, painting
them as works of pure vanity and subtle incitement sin.

So, perhaps, began to take them out one by one, stealthily Library father and savor the night,
in bed, in the light of a lamp, when everyone was asleep.

The impression of those was for her outlandish adventures as a filter hechiceril. And thought
of nothing but gallant and generous gentleman who came to liberate it and take her away, far away
in the croup of the palfrey. Started living in the brooding love, in conversations and abduction
of the stories, daydreaming, forgetting the daily life, giving answers absurd and touching
things, like a sleepwalker, not knowing what he wanted. Aficionose to odors, the embroidered waistcoats
of beads and pearls. Aliñose ever hands and mane.

Prevented her confessors, but it was too late.

One summer evening in Segovia, watching from her room of red leaf
removal sunset over the valley of Eresma, passing in the street was
a gallant cavalier was stopped at her.

He was dressed to the soldier, tired feather in his hat.

A dagger covered with stones precious shone on his breeches slashed.

That scene was repeated several times moving. Some nights, tearful and somber singing voice beneath
his window, to the sound of Sadko. The ticket attached to a stone was immediate. Finally the
clutches of a silk ladder hooked onto her balcony, and her lips sucked on Segovia asleep, the
rapture of the first night kiss.

When he had surrendered completely to sin, and pulled from his wine
first Maternity ads, believed haywire.

Without hope, revealed all to her father. Meanwhile the seductive disappeared from Segovia.
Medrano was commissioned to go after him. Shortly thereafter, in Arevalo, the stranger introduced
himself to the squire, stating his name and race. Was a Moor.

- Tell your master - said to leave - I wanted to avenge his honor herille my Aben brave father
Djahvar, whom he did suffer in Almería ruthless torment, but that, if he agrees now, upon marrying
his daughter to me, I'm going to prostrate myself at his feet.

The gentleman, upon receiving the terrible message and ran with the naked dagger Guiomar; but,
feeling fade, and believing he was dying, cursed the fruit he had in his belly.

What days that followed! Lope de Alcántara was informed of everything, man, crazy of love or
loyalty, to hear the exasperation regarding his friend's mouth, rather than angry, required to be
made to point their wedding, and married for three days only broke Flanders.

A few months later Don Inigo received a letter from his friend informing him Sancho Dávila as
admirable as his son had sacrificed their lives in an encounter with the Huguenots France.

Guiomar, as if seized with both hands open wound in his chest so much pain seemed to drain out of his
blood that excessive guilt, whose ardor had defiled his honor. Sickly pallor masked his face.
His hands took impressive brightness between their garments in mourning, and his whole soul was
bent all to the light ray of hope divine. Despite her pregnancy,
her body subjected to the most arduous penance, in imitation, in of
his home in what was possible, the new reform of Caramel.

When delivery
day approached, Don Inigo decided to change residence and moved, forever,
Avila de los Santos. They came into the world Ramiro, 21 December,
the day of St. Thomas, the year of 1570, under the constellation of
Saturn and the signs of Aquarius and Capricorn.

IV

Breathing this
air of sadness and monastic enclosure, with the instinctive embarrassment
children in the great misfortunes, without joy, without a companion
of his age, governed by taciturn beings continually speaking softly,
Ramiro experienced the dark days childhood. The slower growth of children,
the same smile, always found a finger on a lip. At seven years old
sumiose in a gloomy silence, passing hours in a hideout, hands and
face stay as distressed. There was something monstrous in the contrast
with his soft features that forehead frown charged, apparently adult
thoughts.

Early on, his mother rodrigole in the hardness of relentless
devotion. I attended with him every day at dawn Mass in the parishes
of San Juan and Santo Domingo, he habituated to difficult sentences
that obscure his mind, and endless litanies which were twisted powerless
the Devil. Gave him also for use, a string of fifteen decades, as
which led the monks. I had to kiss the ground in humility before the
images of Our Señora del Carmen, and deposit also their kiss in the
scapular of the religious to gain indulgences.

After the First Communion
increased rigidity. Doña Guiomar the punished now need more minimum
with monastic penance, instilling contempt for the world and the terror
of sin. Every night I read, with his bed in the Flos Sanctorum the
history of the saint's day and sometimes, leaving the book, she recounted
the miracles of a nun in the city or works and wonders of Mother Teresa
of Jesus, his cousin on his mother. He would say the daily conversations
of that holy woman with the Lord, and how, through prayer, touched
the heavenly breath suddenly, lifting his body several feet of soil.
Those things were told by the mother in a voice trembling, spilling
out into the night as sacred and fearful smell of sanctity.

During
most of the day he left to his discretion. The grandfather never spoke.
The child, meanwhile, wandering through the mansion, looking out the
windows to the boys playing in the square, stay up to work on the
top floor of the tower, or down the block of the pages at the corral,
to bring some goodies away from their own snacks. They saw him appear
out of the door, smiling and hungry. The long room like a tavern of
Moors, was crowded with boxes of leather and iron, which seemed the
time of the Cid, and narrow platforms covered filthy blankets. (Memory is a longish
gallery, but the mass of that which is unremembered, how enormous this is!)

I recall a Sunday evening in Dursley. I had been to church, a rare thing for me, of an evening,
to hear a strange, visiting parson; a man who had done missionary work in east London and in
Northern Queensland. I remember nothing that he said, and nothing occurred that night to make
it memorable for me. And yet ...

The aftermath of the sunset beyond Dursley valley was very beautiful. It often was. Venus shone
out with mellow brilliance a little to the right of the church. The air was full of bush scents,
and somewhere, not far from where I stood, dead brushwood was burning and diffusing abroad
the aromatic pungency that fire draws from eucalyptus leaves.

Gradually, I was overcome by that sense of the infinitely romantic potentialities of life which
I suppose overpowers all young people at times; and, more especially, rather lonely young people.
The main events of my short life filed past before me in review against the background of an
exquisitely melancholy evening sky, illumined by one perfect star. Even this dim light was
further softened for me presently by the moisture that gathered in my eyes; tears that pricked
with a pain that was almost intolerably sweet. I recalled how, as a child, I had longed to
see strange and far-off lands; how I had bragged to servants and childish companions that I
would travel. And then, how I had travelled--the Ariadne, my companions, my father, the derelict,
Livorno Bay. And then, the blow that cut off all I had held by, and made of me an unconsidered
scrap, owning nothing, and owned by nobody.

I had been very miserable at the Orphanage. Yes, there was distinct pleasure in recalling and
weighing the sum of my unhappiness at St. Peter's. I had longed to be quit of it; I had willed
to be out in the open world, free to make what I could of my own life. And, behold, I was free.
My will had accomplished this, had brushed aside the restraining bonds of the whole organisation
supervised by Father O'Malley. I, a friendless, bare-legged orphan had done this, because I
desired to do it. And now I was a recognised and respectable unit in a free community, earning
and paying my way with the best. (I was pleasantly conscious of my blue serge suit, the satin
tie, and the multi-coloured silk handkerchief.) I was possessed of Capital--more than twenty
pounds; quite a substantial little sum in excess of twenty pounds, even without the interest
shortly to be added thereto. Finally, that very evening, had I not been addressed as 'Mister
Freydon,' I, the erstwhile bare-footed 'inmate' of St. Peter's? There was nothing of bathos,
nothing in the least ludicrous, to me in this last reflection.

'It's nothing, of course,' I told myself, with proud deprecation; 'and he's only a shop assistant.
But there it is. It does show something after all. And, besides, he is a member of the School
of Arts Committee!'

The 'he' in this case was, of course, the person who had shown discernment enough to address
me as 'Mister Freydon.' And, deprecate as I might, the thing had given me a thrill of deep
and real satisfaction. Merely recalling the sound of it added to the exaltation of my mood,
and to my obsession by the wonder, the romance of the various transitions of my life.

The hazards of life, the wonder of it all--this it was that filled my mind. How would Ted be
struck by it? I thought. And there and then I composed in my mind the letter which should accompany
my return of the pound he had given me when I could find an address to which it could be sent.
There should be no flinching here, no blinking the exact truth. I may have been an insufferable
young prig and snob. Very likely I was. As I recall it that letter, composed while I gazed
across the valley at the evening star, was informed by a sort of easy condescension and friendly
patronage. Grateful, yes, but with a faint hint, too, that Ted had been rather fortunate, a
little honoured perhaps in having enjoyed the privilege of assisting, however slightly, in
the launch of my career. At one time I had gladly regarded it as a present. That, it seemed,
was a blunder of my remote infancy. Honest Ted's pound was a loan, of course, and like any
other honourable man I should naturally repay the loan!

Musing in this wise I turned away from the evening star, and walked very slowly past the dairy
and the wash-house to my own little room. Now the odd thing was that, though I seemed to have
given not one single thought to the future, though I seemed to have made no plan, but, on the
contrary, to have confined myself exclusively to the idlest sort of musing upon the past, yet,
as I walked into my dark room, I knew that I had definitely decided to leave Dursley at once,
and take the next step in my career. I actually whispered to myself:

'It's a good little room. I shall miss this room. I shall often think of the nights I've spent
here.'

All this, as though my few belongings had been packed, and I had arranged to depart next morning;
though, in fact, I had not given a single conscious thought to the matter of leaving Dursley
until I turned my back on the evening star.

Next morning at breakfast I told Mrs. Gabbitas I meant to leave and make for Sydney; and Mrs.
Gabbitas gave me to understand that, with all their infinite varieties of foolishness, most
young fellows shared one idiosyncrasy in common: they none of them had sense enough to know
when they were well off. I spoke of my shorthand, and said I had not been working at it for
nothing. Mrs. Gabbitas sniffed, and expressed very plainly the doubts she felt about shorthand
ever providing me with meals of the kind I enjoyed at her kitchen table.

'I suppose the fact is gardening isn't good enough for you, and you want to be a gentleman,'
the good soul said, with sounding irony. And, whilst I made some modestly deprecatory sound
in reply, my thoughts said: 'You are precisely right.'

With news in hand I have no doubt Mrs. Gabbitas took an early opportunity of a chat with Mrs.
Perkins. At all events I had no sooner got my lawn-mower to work that morning than the mistress
called me to her where she lay on the verandah.

'Is it true we're going to lose you, Nick?' she said very kindly. And, as my irritating way
still was, I blushed confusedly as I endorsed the report.

'Well, of course, we knew we should, sooner or later; and, though we'll be sorry to lose you,
you are right to go; quite right. I am sure of that, and so is Geo--so is Mr. Perkins. But
have you got a situation to go to, Nick?'

I told her I had not, and that I did not think I could secure a berth in Sydney while I was
still in Dursley.

'No, no, perhaps not,' she said musingly. 'You must talk to Mr. Perkins about it, and I will,
too. What made you decide on going now, Nick?'

'I--I don't know,' I replied awkwardly. And then the sweet kindliness of her face emboldened
me to add: 'I was just thinking last night--thinking about my life as I looked at the sky where
the sunset had been, and--somehow, I found I was decided.' Then, as if to justify if possible
the exceeding lameness of my explanation: 'You see, Mrs. Perkins, I've got the hang of the
shorthand pretty well now,' I added.

She nodded sympathetically. 'Well, I'm sure you'll succeed, Nick, I'm sure you will; for you're
a good lad, and very persevering. The main thing is being a good lad, Nick; that's the main
thing. It's sad for you, having lost your parents, and--and everything. But when you go away,
Nick, just try to think of me as if I were your mother, will you? I'll be thinking quite a
lot of you, you know. Don't you go and fancy there's nobody cares about you. We shall all be
thinking a lot about you. And, Nick, if ever you find yourself in any trouble, if you begin
to feel you're going wrong in any way, if you feel like doing anything you know is wrong, or
if you feel downhearted and lonesome--you just get into a train and come to Dursley, Nick.
Come straight here to me, and tell me everything about it, and--and I think I'll be able to
help you. I'll try, anyhow; and you'll know I should want to. And if it isn't easy to come
tell me just the same; write and tell me all about it. Promise me that, Nick.'

I promised her. She held out her white, thin hand and clasped my hard hand in it; and I went
off to my mowing very conscious of my eyes because they smarted and pricked, but little indebted
to them because they failed to show me anything more definite than a blur of greenery at my
feet, and a blur of sunlight above.

A fortnight elapsed before I did really leave that place; but for me most of the emotion of
leaving, of parting with my kindly employers and friends, and with pretty, peaceful Dursley,
was epitomised in that little conversation on the verandah with Mrs. Perkins. I know now that
there are many other sweet and kindly women in the world. At that time no one among them had
ever been so sweet and kind to me.

XIII

When I stepped out of the train at Redfern Station in Sydney, I carried all my worldly belongings
in a much worn carpet-bag which had been given me by Mr. Perkins. Its weight did not at all
suggest to me the need of obtaining a porter's services, and hardly would have done so even
if I had been accustomed to engaging assistance of the sort. On this day, the more bulldozers, the most
sage or the richest of each place where it is often available and send as soon as available and
sent, is designated by the nickname facetiously cacique, which is no less offensive to their
fellow citizens, who are implicitly a skilled or semi-wild Indians. But when there was or when
there will be no bosses, but with another name or nickname of denote? Since before Cadmus
furnished to Greece, and even before that Saturn reigned in Italy in Greece and Italy were chiefs.
What's in Spain was very vicious from from ancient times Gerions of those in vain we Osiris
and Hercules freed Egyptian, because after this unfortunate country ruled almost without interruption
a long series of not less ferocious tyrants. See, then, how old ailment chieftaincy is everywhere,
and very uniquely in Spain and how such a scourge can not be regarded as deplorable novelty introduced
and implemented between us constitution or political system of fashion.

Be all that as it should be, and regardless of the thesis, if snow and mud is permissible betray
any, you can ensure that the novel is very pleasant and quiet reading until tragedy occurs that
ends. And you can be sure that Mr. D. José Joaquín Domínguez writes very pure elegance and
delicate taste, and lets us know, without affecting and without fanfare importunate, who has studied
well to our classics and the ancient learned Greek and Roman, not slavishly copy any of them, but
putting in style flavor and aroma, as providing new wine in old wine sill and generous than the
old glass contains.

I would like to here news of other recently published stories and novels. Harvest as I indicated,
is abundant in this century and it was in the past. I flinch, then strain to my readers. And
without prejudice to undertake again the task of critical Another time when I feel less tired
I confine myself now to quote from their titles Thomas I, D. Jose Jesus Garcia, printed in
Almeria to Gondar and Fortaleza, the Marquis Figueroa, Floor, and D. Sebastian Gomila, edition of
Barcelona in the shade of the mosque, Cordoba stories by D. July Pellicer, Woman of Ojeda (Alicante,
1901), by D. Gabriel Miró, trifles, stories and articles, by Don Alfonso Jara, and bulk to
the Coracha, by and held in high esteem and Malaga Don Arturo Reyes.

Today, finally, only give an account of a novel by a writer from Seville, already known scholar
and also elegant and witty poet. As a novelist, not I know that D. Luis Montoto, the writer
whom I allude, has published anything before writing and publishing the novel entitled The four
pennies. As a lyric poet he knew me and I felt much long. In the intellectual and literary activity
that is central Sevilla, is among the most illustrious writers.

With his novel The four farthings is now to register, surely among the best and most original
novelists in Spain.

The story tells us is immediately taken from reality. Everything about her, rather than fiction,
has traces of a transcript of things that have been witnessed, not
for nothing that invented, but on events and people who are remembered.

And yet, of such events and persons that appear vulgar to start the story, emerges and evolves after
the charming poetry.

Don Antonio, the main character, the owner of the four pennies, we are shown at the beginning shy, spoiled
with riches, selfish and even perverted and vicious, it dragged violent passions, but by weakness
of character.

The interest of this curious novel, what makes us really nice, is
not the transformation or change, because nothing changed or transformed,
but the emergence becoming clearer and more shiny goodness, nobility
and sweetness of the soul of D. Antonio, who is throwing little little
miseries and vices of weakness made, and ends up shining in her nakedness
spiritual, clean, immaculate, rich in caring affections.

The moral worth of at sight insignificant D. Antonio will rise gradually
that, in our opinion, is transfigured and appears surrounded by nice
glow. (The bath was of the same material as the
verandah roof--galvanised iron.) 'I've got some business in Sydney that will keep me rather late.'

The good woman rather pierced my carefully assumed guise of nonchalance by the smile with which
she said: 'Oh, very well, Mr. Freydon; I hope you'll not be kept too late--by business.'

'How in the world did she guess?' I thought as I walked down to the ferry. It may be that the
virus of city life had in some queer way already entered my veins. Here was I, the parsimonious
'handy lad,' who had been saving ninety per cent. of my wages and never indulging myself in
any way, actually contemplating the purchase of an evening meal in Sydney, while becoming indebted
for an evening meal I should never eat in North Shore; to say nothing of making deceitful remarks
about being detained by business, when I had deliberately made up my mind to postpone all business
until the next day. Truly, I was making an ominous start in the new life; or so my twitching
conscience told me, as I sat enjoying the harbour view from the deck of the ferry-boat which
took me to Circular Quay.

My notion of dissipation and extravagance would have proved amusing to the bloods of that day,
and merely incredible to those of the present time. There was an unnecessary twopence for the
ferry--admitting the whole business to have been unnecessary. There was sixpence for a meal,
consisting of tea and a portentous allowance of scones with butter. There was threepence for
a packet of cigarettes ('colonial' tobacco), the first I had ever smoked, and a purchase which
had actually been decided upon some days previously. Finally, there was fourpence for a glass
of colonial wine in a George Street wine-shop; and this also, like the rest of the outing,
had been practically decided upon before I left Dursley. But with regard to the wine there
had been reservations. The cigarettes were certainly to be tried. The wine was to be had if
circumstances proved favourable, and such a plunge seemed at the time desirable. It did; and
so I may suppose the outing was successful.

During my wanderings up and down the city streets, I examined carefully the vestibules of various
places of amusement--rather dingy most of them were at that date--but had no serious thought
of penetrating further. The shops, the road traffic, and the people intrigued me greatly, but
especially the people, the unending streams of lounging men, women, and children. Some, no
doubt, were on business bent; but the majority appeared to me to take their walking very easily,
and every one seemed to be chattering. My life since as a child I left England had all been
spent in sparsely populated rural surroundings, and the noisy bustle of Sydney impressed me
very much, as I imagine the Strand would impress a Dartmoor lad, born and bred, on his first
visit to London.

It did not oppress me at all. On the contrary, I felt pleasantly stimulated by it. Life here
seemed very clearly and emphatically articulate; it marched past me in the streets to a stirring
strain. There were no pauses, no silences, no waiting. And then, too, one felt that things
were happening all the time. The atmosphere was full of stir and bustle. Showy horses and carriages
went spanking past one; cabs were pulled up with a jerk, and busily talking men clambered out
from them, carelessly handing silver to the driver, as though it were a thing of no consequence,
and passing from one's sight within doors, waving cigars and talking, talking all the time.
Obviously, big things were toward; not one to-day and one to-morrow, but every hour in every
street. Fortunes were being made and lost; great enterprises planned and launched; great crimes,
too, I supposed; and crucial meetings and partings.

Yes, this was the very tide of life, one felt; and with what pulsing, irresistible strength
it ebbed and flowed along the city highways! Among all these thousands of passers-by no one
guessed how closely and with what inquisitive interest I was observing them. I suppose I must
have covered eight or ten miles of pavement before walking self-consciously into that wine-shop,
and sitting down beside a little metal table. I know now that, with me, nervousness generally
takes the form of marked apparent nonchalance. Doubtless, this is due to concentrated effort
in my youth to produce this effect. I did not know the name of a single Australian wine; but
I remembered some enthusiastic comment of my father's upon the 'admirable red wine of the country,'
so I ordered a glass of red wine, and, with an amused stare, the youth in attendance served me.

Like many of the wines of the country it was fairly potent stuff, and rather sweet than otherwise,
probably an Australian port. I sipped it with the air of one who generally devoted a good portion
of his evenings to such dalliance, and ate several of the thin biscuits which lay in a plate
on the table. Meanwhile, I observed closely the other sippers. They were all in couples, and
the snatches of their conversation which I heard struck me as extraordinarily dramatic in substance;
most romantic, I thought, and very different from the leisurely, languid gossip of those who
draw patterns in the dust with their clasp-knives, and converse chiefly about 'baldy-faced
steers,' 'good feed,' 'heavy bits o' road,' and the like, with generous intervals of say ten
or twelve minutes between observations. These folk in the wine-shop, on the contrary, tripped
over one another in their talk; their hands and shoulders and brows all played a part, as well
as their lips, and their glances were charged with penetrant meaning. The
beautiful gothic cathedral and other public buildings make it interesting in the eyes of the artist
the simple yet curious traveler. It has many notable institutions, including an excellent library
(40,000 volumes) and museums of painting and sculpture, natural history, antiques and mineralogy,
with a beautiful botanical garden. Among cities of the third order (and still almost second)
Tours is, without doubt, one of the most interesting in every way. Is this city ​​a special
feature worthy of mention. Among its various printing has one of proportions gigantic, the largest
and most powerful in France, making immense scale publications and in all languages. From
there come every year from 7 to 8.000 works, and arises mainly prodigious mass of elementary books
for public education. Thousands of workers have permanent occupation in that vast establishment,
whose powerful steam presses do not stop providing food to civilization.

Amboise is only around 5.000 inhabitants and is remarkable only for its significant manufacturing
metal, whose products are generally estimated. This ancient city also delay on the margin
of the Loire. His strong castle served as temporary residence to the kings of France during
the XV and XVI.

The Loire Valley, as I said, is one of the most beautiful regions of France, but unfortunately have
suffered major disasters by the terrible floods of this river, whose waters overflow easily
owing to the shallowness of the channel and the complete natural grading the plains. The picturesque
may consist of natural forms and colors of objects and in artificial forms. It is to this second
kind of graceful beauty that belongs the exquisite scenery of the banks of the Loire, which would
be monotonous and tedious, because of their lack strong inflection, if it had the charm of the hand
of man has attempted. Plain is a vast open horizon, populated whole grain, vineyards, plantations
Hemp and beautiful carefully preserved forests. At the bottom of this magnificent panorama
vegetable slips the Loire, slow and quiet, with its endless shaded margins rows of poplars and other
large trees, and forming long beaches where the hot reverberates summer sun.

Here and there stands a mountain some distance, or a pretty flat hill inclined approaching
the river, where shine among gardens and parks on small towns fifth elegant, graceful houses gives
work (fermes), or the splendid castles history more or less aristocratic and heroic, raised
as watchmen on the heights of valley.
 But, particularly at that period, I am not
sure that the average man of the world, in any walk of life, would have differed very much
from Mr. Smith in this particular matter. One could imagine some quite worthy colonels of regiments
giving not wholly dissimilar counsel to a youngster, I think.

Morning and evening Mr. Smith applied some sort of cosmetic to his fine grey moustache, which
kept its ends like needles. He always wore white or biscuit-coloured waistcoats, and was scrupulously
particular about his linen. He generally had an air of being fresh from his bath. His thin
hair was never disarranged, and his mood seemed to be cheerfully serene. Summer heats drew
plentiful perspiration from him, but no sign of languor or irritation. On Sunday mornings he
stayed in bed till ten-thirty, with the Sydney Bulletin, and on the stroke of eleven o'clock
he invariably entered the church at the corner of Mill Street. I used to marvel greatly at
this, because he never missed his bath, and his Sunday morning appearance gave the impression
that his toilet had received the most elaborate attention. He carried an ivory crutch-handled
malacca walking-stick, and in church I used to think of him as closely resembling Colonel Newcome.
His voice was a mellow baritone, he never missed any of the responses; and the odour which
hung about him of soap and water, cosmetic, light yellow kid gloves, and good tobacco--he smoked
a golden plug, very superior to my cheap, dark stuff--seemed to me at that time richly suggestive
of luxury, sophistication, distinction, and knowledge of affairs.

Many years have passed since I set eyes on Mr. Smith, and no doubt he has long since been gathered
to his fathers; but I believe I am right in saying that his was a rather remarkable character.
I know now that he really was a dipsomaniac of a somewhat unusual kind. At ordinary times he
touched no stimulant of any sort. But at intervals of about three months he disappeared, quite
regularly and methodically, and always with a handbag. To what place he went I do not know.
Neither I think did Mrs. Hastings or his employers. At the end of a week he would reappear,
clothed as when he went away, but looking ill and shaken. For a few days afterwards he was
always exceedingly subdued, ate little, and talked hardly at all. But by the end of a week
he was himself again, and remained perfectly serene and normal until the time of his next disappearance.
I once happened to see the contents of the handbag. They consisted of an old, rather ragged
Norfolk coat and trousers and a suit of pyjamas; nothing else.

Mr. Smith was a sort of time-keeper at the works of Messrs. Poutney, Riggs, Poutney and Co.,
the wholesale builders' and masons' material people. I was informed that he had once been the
chief traveller for this old-established firm, on a salary of seven hundred pounds a year,
with a handsome commission, and all travelling expenses paid. His salary now was two pounds
twelve shillings and sixpence a week; and I apprehend that his services were retained by the
firm rather by virtue of what he had done in the past than for the sake of what he was doing
at this time. I was told that commercial travelling in New South Wales, when Mr. Smith had
been in his prime, was a dashing profession which produced many drunkards. But from Mr. Smith
himself I never heard a word about his previous life.

I recall many small kindnesses received at his hands, and at the outset the domestic routine
of my Sydney life was largely arranged for me by Mr. Smith.

'Never wear a collar more than once, or a white shirt more than twice,' was one of the first
instructions I received from him. Subsequently he modified this a little for me, upon economic
grounds, advising me to take special care of my shirt on Sunday, in order that it might serve
for Monday and Tuesday. 'Then you've two days each for the other two shirts in each week, you
see. But socks and collars you change every day. In Sydney you must never wear a coloured shirt;
always a stiff, white shirt, in Sydney.'

On my second evening there Mr. Smith took me to a hatter's shop and chose a billycock hat for
me, in place of the soft felt which I usually wore.

'You must have a hard hat in Sydney,' he said, 'except in real hot weather; and then you could
wear a flat straw, if you liked. I prefer a grey hard hat for summer. But straw will do for
a youngster. You should have a pair of gloves, for Sunday, you know. They're useful, too, for
interviewing principals.'

One might have fancied that gloves were a kind of passport, or perhaps a skeleton key guaranteed
to open principals' doors. It was Mr. Smith who first made me feel that there was a connection
between morals, respectability, and cold baths. To miss the morning tub, as Mr. Smith saw it,
was not merely a calamity but also a disgrace; a thing to make one ashamed; a lapse calculated
seriously to affect character. How oddly that does clash, to be sure, with his views of a young
man's relations with the other sex! And yet, I am not so sure. Shocked as many people would
be by those views, they might admit in them perhaps a sort of hygienic intention. It was that
I fancy, more than anything else, which did as a fact shock me. As companions, co-equals, fellow-humans,
I believe this curious man absolutely detested women. I wonder what sort of a wife he had had! ...

When I come to compare my launch in Sydney with all that I know and have read of youthful beginnings
in Old World centres, I marvel at the luxurious ease and freedom of Australian conditions.
To put it into figures now--my start in Sydney did not cost me a sovereign. I did not spend
two days without earning more than enough to defray all my modest outgoings. My search for
employment, so far from wearing out shoe-leather, was confined to a single application, to
one brief interview. This was not at all due to any cleverness on my part, but in the first
place to the good offices of Mr. Perkins of Dursley, and in the second place to the easygoing
character of prevailing Australian conditions.

On the morning after my first evening's dissipation in Sydney, I made my way to the business
premises of Messrs. Joseph Canning and Son, the Sussex Street wholesale produce merchants and
commission agents. At this time, there are large middens along the shore
this river, full of filth and nausea, which was not at the time of the Incas, but very clean,
running water above said slabs, and sometimes went to wash the Incas with their wives, and at
various times have found some amount of Spanish gold not pure, but in tiny jewels, and their
moles, which left or were falling when they bathed.

After this happened, Inca Roca came, to what they say, from Cuzco to make sacrifices, trying
with big tricks and good words to attract people to his friendship more than I could, and went
and was towards what they call Condesuyo, to where, in the place they call Pomatambo, had a battle
with the natives of those regions, which was the victor and lord of all, because, forgiving with
many donations and communicating with them the great things you love taken and offered his
services, obligations will go to taxes. After being Condesuyo few days in and visited the oracles
and temples in those lands there is Cuzco victorious again, going in front of the principal
Indians, keeping the person with golden axes and halberds.

This Inca had many children and no child, and having ordered and sent some things large and important
for the governorship, died, having first married his eldest son,
that his name had Inca Yupanqui, a natural lady Ayarmaca, whom he
named Mama Chiquia.

CAP.

Inca Roca was dead came Condesuyo, Vicos Ayarmaca, and other parts that had settled alliance
and friendship, many people, both men and wives, é were made large tears for the deceased king:
and many women of the life that he loved and served, according to the general blindness of Indians,
their hair mesmos hanged, and other were killed by other modes, for,
soon, sending their souls to serve the Inca Roca and in the sepulcher,
which was magnificent and sumptuous, threw great treasures and much
wives and servants to maintenance and fine clothing.

Sepulcher desto no kings have been found, and to make known if they would be rich or no, no more
evidence is necessary, as they were in common sepulcher of some sixty
thousand pesos gold and more and less, what would they squeeze themselves
such that both possessed and that this metal had important to get
out of this thing rich and ornate century?

So it was done mesmo package to Inca Roca, telling one of their gods, believing that it resting
in heaven.

After the tears and made the osequias, the new Inca make the fast shut up, and because heightening
their absence does not lift any sedition or people, and commanded one of the most of their seed
was leading in public accounting with her own person, which gave power to punish it could
do for what, and have the city in calmness and peace, until he come out with real insinia
the tassel. And the Inca, whose claim news that was of noble presence, serious and authoritative.
Which came in the most secret of his palace, to where did the fast, sticking to the corn times
what more he ate, and was without having carnal knowledge with a woman. Finishing, went off course,
showing your sight of people great joy, and made their big feasts and sacrifices, and past
parties, the Inca ordered that all parties bring much gold and silver
for the temple and became stone in Cuzco called the war, large, and
the gold engastonadas and rocks [116].

While in Cuzco Inca Yupanqui trying to ennoble him, determined to go to Collasuyo which are the
provinces that fall to the party of the south of the city, because he had notice that Zapana
descent that dominated the Atuncollao part, were already very powerful and were so proud, she
got together with people to come on Cuzco, and so, he ordered its people. And as long Cuzco suffers
no peace, have the Indians, who as hobiese many people Inca Yupanqui aide for the day I wanted
to do, having now to be split, hobiesen come as some captains Condesuyo with warriors, tried
together killing the Inca, for if that day came out with victory, would be so dear, that to all
would be vassals and servants. And so, while the Inca say in their parties something cheerful
with lots of wine drinkers, a close one of the league and they had taken and that the party,
and lifting his arm, landed a blow on the head stick real, and the Inca troubled and courage, stood
up saying, "What did you, traitor?" And those of Condesuyo had been many deaths, and the Inca
himself garrison thought of going to the temple, but was in vain to think, because of his
enemies reached, was killed, making do the same to many of their
wives.

He walked a great noise in the city, while not understood by one another: the priests it had
collected to the temple and women of the city, screaming, pulling her hair startled to see the dead
Inca blood, like some vile man. And many of neighbors wanted to abandon the city, and the killers
wanted to become a prey, when, count, that making a great noise of
thunder and lightning, fell as much water from heaven, that Condesuyo
feared, and no further forward, turned, satisfied with the damage
they had done.

And [have or say] the Indians, who at this time were lords of the province called Quichua Andaguailas
[117], and from beside a lake that had his name Choclococha [118] left many people with two
captains called Guaraca and UASC, which came winning as you came, until they came to the province
said, and as the inhabitants della knew his coming, got ready for war, encouraging one another,
saying it would be fair to give death to those who had come against them, and so, leaving
a door is about to leave for the Aymara, the chances with his captains came closer to them,
so they got together and had some talks with each other, and without become avenues, was given
the battle between them that way, according to the fame announces, was at odds and the victory
was doubtful, but in the end, the Quichua were beaten and treated cruelly killing all that were
able to have hands, sparing children to tender, or to those useless old, taking their wives and
concubines. And make other damage, became lords of that province and possessed as today they send
their children. And this he finds himself cash, because forward has
to do much mention of these Chancas.

And back to the subject, such as Condesuyo left Cuzco, the city was cleaned of the dead and
made great sacrifices, and is said by a certainty that he Inca Yupanqui
not him at his funeral to honor that past, or as they put the package
to them, and no child left none.

After what was according to the relationship that the Cuzco apricots give these things say again
that as hobiese made great lamentations for the death of the Inca, it was between the chief
of the city who would be named king and merescia have such dignity.

About this had different opinions, and because such hobo who wanted hobiese not king, but
which ruled the city noted, others said it was lost without his head.

On this there was great noise, and fearing his contention is that a woman came Anancuzcos through,
which said: "What you are there and why you do not take to Viracocha Inga, they deserve it so well?
"Having heard this word, as these people are so determined, leaving the vessels of wine were
in great haste by Viracocha Inca, son of Inca Yupanqui, [119] saying, as he saw that it used
to, and receive him in awe of the fringe that wanted him.

Coming Viracocha in it, it came to making the fast and ordered the city to Inca Roca Inca his
relative, and left while the crown, very ornate, and made a solemn holiday in Cuzco, which lasted
several days, all showing great satisfaction with the election of the new Inca.

Which meant that some called Viracocha Inca to come from elsewhere and differentiating who brought
suit, and that in the faiciones and appearance proved to be as a Spanish because he had beards.
They have other things more tired, if hobiese writing.

I asked in Cayo Tupac Yupanqui Cuzco and to the others in the Cuzco major gave me relationship of
the Incas that I am writing, and I answered to be fun and that nothing is true; Viracocha
Inga was because NASCAR in Cuzco and raised, and do the same were his parents and grandparents,
and that the name of Viracocha the particular name was called, as does everyone.

And as I was handed the crown, he married a lady principal, called Runtu Caya [120] very beautiful.
And as the feast of joy hobiese past, determined to win out some villages in the round of Cuzco
who had not wanted the friendship of the Inca past confident in the strength of their pucaraes,
and people who wanted to put together, out of Cuzco its rich litter, with the most major stores
and endrezó his way to what they called Calca [121] where he had been their messengers receive
him with great pride, more, as they learned of the Cuzco and were close to Dell, together, arming
themselves with weapons, and set in the high the hills on their strengths and barricades, to
do desgalgaban [122] large stones towards to the actual Inca, to kill the ones that had. E
enemies, putting it work, climbed the mountains, and in spite of
the contrary, they could beat one of those forces.

Because of Calca [123] saw the forces of Cuzco, went out to a large square to where they fought
stoutly, and the battle lasted from morning until noon day, killing many on both sides, and were
more prisoners. The victory is those of Cuzco.

The Inca was next to a river, where they had settled their real, and as he knew the victory,
he felt joy. And in this, his masters down with the dam and cannot. And the Indians who had
escaped from the battle with other captains of Calca and its regions, looking for since so
square bad they had thought, that the final choice that remained was tempting faith the winner
and ask for peace with moderate bound to servitude, like many others were doing; and so agreed,
they went for a portion of the mountain, saying with great voices, "Viva, for long live the mighty
Inca Viracocha, our Lord. "At that gnawed at the resonant voices, took up arms those of Cuzco,
the more it was not long, when the defeated were prostrate on the ground in front of Viracocha
Inga, to which, without looking up, one between They had more wise, his voice began to say: "Neither
should you, Inca, make proud with the victory that God has given you, and take little to us to
be defeated, for thee and the Incas is allowed to rule over the nations, and is given to us
with all our strength defend the freedom we inherited from our parents,
and when doing so not out we can, obey and cheerfully receive the
subjection [124].

Therefore, no longer sends more people die or hurt, we have all thy will. "And as the leading
Indian hobo these words, others who were there were great cries, begging for mercy.

Inca King replied that if they had been hurt, that his anger had been at fault, since the first
refused to believe his words nor have his friendship, that he had heavy, and liberally granted
them that might be in owning land, as the first of their estates, with so much on time and according
to the laws, which are taxed in their villages hobiese Cuzco, and that treats them were then
to the city and might make him two palaces, one inside della and another in Khaki [125] to be
out to recreate. Responded that they would do, and the Inca ordered release the captives, without
missing a single one, and restore their properties to those who already
had by his confederates, and for them to understand what they had
to do and these did not hobiese dissensions, sent a delegate to be
great power, without removing the estate to Mr. natural.

After what has been scripto, Inca Viracocha sent a messenger to summon the men of Caitomarca
[126] quest from the other side of a river made strong, without ever having wanted to be friends
the Incas, who had been in Cuzco, and how he got [the] runner Viracocha
Inga verbally abused him, calling the Inca crazy, because he believed
that it had slightly to submit to his lordship.

Then they sent a messenger hobo Viracocha Inga, he commanded his people that raised the real walked
to be closer to Caitomarca. And walking along the road, came to a river, where ordered them to
stop for refreshment; and being in that place, the messenger came, which was how to Caitomarca
had scoffed at the, and how they said they had no fear to the Incas. And how it was understood by
Viracocha Inga, with great anger rose in the litter, ordering his men who walk all haste, and
did so until they arrived at the bank of a river flowing and high current, I think I should
be to Yucay [127], and ordered their stores to the Inca and people would fight enemies that
the other side of the river were, most would the river so angry, could not be put into effect.
Caitomarca those arrived at the riverside where with slings threw stones at many real del
Inca, and started one and In addition to giving great shouts and
cries, because this is the strange habit So people here fight with
each other, and how little their mouths to let stand.

Two days have questuvo in that river without passing the Inca, that there was neither bridge agora
which were used there before hobiese Incas, because some say yes and others say no. And pass
the river Viracocha Inga, commanded you to say a big fire in a stone small, and as was very hot,
put into it some mestura or confacion, so that where enprender could touch the fire, had it
put in a sling of gold thread, and so, when a pleased, threw stones, and with great force threw
it in the village of Caitomarca, and happened to fall from the eaves of a house that was covered
with straw well seasoned, and then noise burned so that the Indians came for the night to
fire Vian at home asking one another what had become what and who had set the fire to the house.
And he went out through an old, which reported to have said: "Look what I say and what you be
convenient, here without thinking that has set fire to the house, before they believe that
came from heaven, because I saw a burning stone, which, falling from
above, gave the house and stopped as you see it.

For as the main and bossy with the oldest of the people that heard it, being, as they are, so great
soothsayers and sorcerers, believed that the stone had been sent by hand of God, to punish them
because they did not want to obey the Inca: and then, without waiting for an answer oracle or
make any sacrifice, crossed the river on rafts, leading to the Inca
present; as they were before his presence, asked for peace, making
large offerings with persons and property as well as they did the
Confederates own.

Viracocha Inga known for what they had said those Caitomarca, responded with great dissimulation,
that if that day would not have been wise in coming, the next he was determined to them with large
ponds that had mandated.

And after this, it became the seat between Caitamarca and those of the Inca which gave the captain
or master of that town one of his wives, native of Cuzco, which was estimated and taken into
a lot.

In the area of ​​this village ran the fame of the facts of the Inca, and many, by the sound della
without seeing the arms of Cuzco, I offer you sent to friends and
allies Inca king, who showed little happy with it have, talking to
each other lovingly and to and showing great benivolencia for all,
providing what he could to those who saw be necessary.

And he saw that he could gather a great army, he resolved to appeal of people to go in person
to Condesuyo.

Of all the things that he went to Cuzco, Viracocha succeeded each new, and as in the city would
tell the war he had with those of Caitamarca say that there arose a tyrant brother Last Inca Yupanqui,
who, having been deeply felt, because the mastery and control the city had given to Viracocha
Inga and not to him, and waited to ensure timely have dominion. This thought had it, because
one was in favor of the dried and Cuzco's main Orencuzcos lineage, and the new of this war that
the Inca had, Paresce I had plenty to do in the defunct, encourage
this I say, for that, without further wait, killed in the city who
had been governor, to be empowering della.

Capac, who had his name and, greedy of dominion, coupled its allies, in an orchestra day in the
temple of the sun all over the apricots and between Inca Roca, the governor of Viracocha Inca,
taking up arms, freedom of the people posting and Viracocha Inga could not have dominion, to
the deputy attacked and killed him and he and many others; blood which watered the altars were the
altars and shrines and figures the sun. The virgins and the priests came out with grand noise,
cursing the murderers saying that, a great sin, grand punishment deserved. The city went grand
coup people to see what it was, and understood, about adopting as fact, coupled with Capac,
others pesándoles, took up arms not wanting to go through it, and so, having DIVISION, fell
many dead and another part. The city was moved in such a way that
reendiendo the air the sound of their own voices, they were heard
and understood. They're always looking round for special dodges, and wasting time following
up special methods recommended by this fool or the other. There's only one thing wanted really
for success, and that's just keeping on. Just keeping on; that's all. If you never let go of
yourself--never, mind you, but just keep on, steady and regular, you can't help succeeding.
It just comes to you. But you must keep on. It's no good having a shot at this, and trying
the other. The way is just to keep on.'

My mentor was in a seriously practical vein on this Saturday night; partly perhaps because,
as the event proved, he was within four days of one of his periodical disappearances.

XVI

In the early afternoon of Sunday I set out upon the visit I had originally intended to pay
on the previous day.

Three o'clock found me rather nervously ringing a bell at the door of Filson House in Macquarie
Street. Under the brightly polished bell-pull was the name C. F. Rawlence, and the legend:
'Do not ring unless an answer is required.' It was my first experience of such a notice, and
I felt uncertain how it was intended to apply. Neither for the moment could I understand why
in the world any sane person should ring a bell unless desirous of eliciting a response of
some kind. Finally, I decided that it must be a plaintive and exceedingly trustful appeal to
the good nature of urchins who might be tempted to ring and run away.

A smiling young Chinaman presently opened the door to me, and said: 'You come top-side alonga
me, pease; Mr. Lollance he's in.'

So I walked upstairs behind the silent, felt-shod Asiatic, and wondered what was coming next.
I had hitherto associated Chinamen in Australia exclusively with market-gardening and laundry
work. The house was not a very high one, but it really was its 'top-side' we walked to, and,
arrived there, I was shown into what I thought must certainly be the largest and most magnificent
apartment in Sydney.

I dare say the room was thirty feet long by twenty feet wide, without counting the huge fireplace
at one end, which formed a room in itself, and did actually accommodate several easy chairs,
though I cannot think the weather was ever cold enough in Sydney to admit of people sitting
so close to a log fire as these chairs were placed. There were suits of armour, skins of beasts,
strange weapons, curious tapestries, and other stock properties of artists' studios, all conventional
enough, and yet to me most startling. I had never before visited a studio, and did not know
that artists affected these things. The magnificence of it all impressed me enormously. It
almost oppressed me with a sense of my own temerity in venturing to visit any one who maintained
such state.

'This is what it means to be a famous artist,' I told myself, well assured now, in my innocence,
that Mr. Rawlence must be very famous. 'Every one else probably knew it before,' I thought.
And just then the great man himself appeared, not at the door behind me, but between heavy
curtains which hid some other entrance. He came forward with a welcoming smile. Then, for a
moment this gave place to rather blank inquiry. And then the smile returned and broadened.

'Why, it's-- No, it can't be. But it is--my young friend of St. Peter's. I'm delighted. Welcome
to Sydney. Sit down, sit down, and let me have your news.'

He reclined in a sidelong way upon a sort of ottoman, and gracefully waved me to an enormous
chair facing him.

'There are always a few charitable souls who drop in upon me of a Sunday afternoon, but I'd
no idea you would be the first of them to-day.'

Here was a disturbing announcement for me!

'Perhaps it would be more convenient if I came one evening, Mr. Rawlence,' I said awkwardly,
half rising from the chair.

'Tut, tut, my dear lad! Sit down, sit down. Why should other visitors disturb you? There will
only be good fellows like yourself. Ladies are rarities here on a Sunday. And in any case--
Why, you are quite the man of the world now.' This with kindly admiration. Then he screwed
up his eyes, moved his head backward and from side to side, as though to correct his view of
a picture. 'Just one point out of the picture. Dare I alter it? May I?' And, stepping forward,
he thrust well down in my breast coat pocket Mrs. Gabbitas's gorgeous silk handkerchief. 'Yes,'
as he moved backward again, 'that's better. One never can see these things for oneself. But
let me make sure of your important news before we are interrupted.'

So I told my story as well as I could, and Mr. Rawlence was in the act of expressing his kindly
interest therein, when I heard steps and voices on the stairs below.

'If you're not otherwise engaged you must stay till these fellows go, Nick,' said my host.
'We haven't half finished our talk, you know. And--er--if you should be talking to any one
here of--er--your present situation, I should leave it quite vague, if I were you; secretarial
work you know--something of that sort. We may have some newspaper men here who might be useful
to you one day--you follow me?'

'Ah! Hail! Good of you to have come, Landon. Ah, Foster! Jones! Good men! Do find seats. Oh,
let me introduce a new arrival--Mr. Nicholas Freydon; Mr. Landon, the disgracefully well-known
painter, Mr. Foster and Mr. Jones, both of the Fourth Estate, though frequently taken for quite
respectable members of society. We may not have a Fleet Street here, you know, Freydon, but
we have one or two rather decent newspapers, as you may have noticed.'

He turned to the still smiling young Chinaman. 'Let's have cigars and cigarettes, Ah Lun.'

I gathered that I had been presented as a new arrival from England. It was rather startling;
but so far I found that an occasional smile was all that seemed expected of me, and I was of
course anxious to do my best. 'Good thing I've started smoking,' I thought, as Ah Lun began
passing round two massive silver boxes, with cigars and cigarettes. The visitors were mostly
young, rather noticeably young, I thought, in view of the greying hair over Mr. Rawlence's
temples; and I felt less and less alarmed as I listened to their talk. In fact, shamelessly
disrespectful though the idea was, I found myself, after a while, wondering whether Mr. Smith
might not have called some of the conversation 'cackle.' And then some technicalities, journalistic
and artistic, began to star the talk, and I meekly rebuked my own presumption. But I have no
doubt whatever that Mr. Smith would have called most of it 'cackle,' and it is possible he
would have been tolerably near the truth.

Within an hour I had been introduced to perhaps a score of visitors, and Ah Lun was just as
busy as he could be, serving tea, whisky, wine, soda-water, cigars, cigarettes, sandwiches,
and so forth. It was all tremendously exciting to me. The mere sound of so many voices, apart
from anything else, I found wonderfully stimulating, if a trifle bewildering.

'This,' I told myself, in a highly impressive, though necessarily inarticulate stage-whisper
of thought, 'This is Society; this is what's called the Social Vortex; and I am right in the
bubbling centre of it.' And then I thought how wonderful it would have been if Mr. Jokram,
of Dursley's School of Arts Committee, and one or two others--say, Sister Agatha, for example--could
have been permitted to take a peep between the magnificent curtains, and have a glimpse of
me, engaged in brilliant conversation with a celebrity of some kind, whose neck-tie would have
made an ample sash for little Nelly Fane--of me, the St. Peter's orphan, in Society!

Truly, I was an innocent and unlicked cub. But I believe I managed to pull through the afternoon
without notably disgracing my distinguished host and patron; and, too, without referring even
to 'secretarial work.' I might have been heir to a dukedom, a distinguished remittance man,
or even a congenital idiot, for all the company was allowed to gather from me as to my means
of livelihood.

XVII

Towards six o'clock the company began to thin out somewhat, and within the hour I found myself
once more alone with Mr. Rawlence.

'Well, and what do you think of these few representatives of Sydney's Bohemia?' asked my host.
'They are not, perhaps, leading pillars of our official society, as one may say--the Government
House set, you know--but my Sunday afternoon visitors are apt to be pretty fairly representative
of our best literary and artistic circles, I think. Interesting fellows, are they not? I was
glad to notice you had a few words with Foster, the editor of the Chronicle. If you still have
literary or journalistic ambitions, and have not been entirely captivated by the pundits of
commerce and money-making, Foster might be of material assistance to you.'

Just then Ah Lun passed before us (still smiling), carrying a tray full of used glasses.

'We'll have a bit of dinner here, Ah Lun. I won't go out to-night. I dare say you have something
we can pick over. Let us know when it's ready.'

Really, as I look back upon it, I see even more clearly than at the time that the artist was
extraordinarily kind to me; to an obscure and friendless youth, none too presentable, and little
likely just then to do him credit. I would prefer to set down here only that which I understood
and felt at the time. Perhaps that is not quite possible, in the light of subsequently acquired
knowledge and experience. This much I can say: there was no hint at this time of any wavering
or diminution in the almost worshipful regard I felt for Mr. Rawlence.

Seen in his own chosen setting, he was the most magnificent person I had met. Æstheticism of
a pronounced sort was becoming the fashion of the day in London; and, as I presently found,
Mr. Rawlence followed the fashions of London and Paris closely. Indeed, I gathered that at
one time he had settled down, determined to live and to end his days in one or other of those
Old World capitals. But after a year divided between them, he had returned to Sydney, and gradually
formed his Macquarie Street home and social connections. No doubt he was a more important figure
there than he would have been in Europe. His private income made him easily independent of
earnings artistic or otherwise. I apprehend he lived at the rate of about a thousand pounds
a year, or a little more, which meant a good deal in Sydney in those days. I remember being
told at one time that he did not earn fifty pounds in a year as a painter; but, of course,
I could not answer for that.

I think he derived his greatest satisfactions from the society of young aspirants in art, literature,
and journalism; and I incline to think it was more to please and interest, to serve and to
impress these neophytes, than from any inclination of his own, that he also assiduously cultivated
the society of a few maturer men who were definitely placed in the Sydney world as artists,
writers, editors, and so forth. But such conclusions came to me gradually, of course. I had
not thought of them during that delightfully exciting experience--my first visit to the Macquarie
Street studio.

The simple little dinner was for me a thrilling episode. The deft-handed Chinaman hovering
behind our chairs, the softly shaded table-lights, the wine in tall, fantastically shaped Bohemian
glasses, the very food--all unfamiliar, and therefore fascinating: olives, smoked salmon--to
which I helped myself largely, believing it to be sliced tomato--a cold bird of sorts, no slices
of bread but little rolls in place of them, no tea, and no dishes ever seen in Mrs. Gabbitas's
kitchen, or at my North Shore lodging. And then the figure of my host, lounging at table in
the rosy light, a cigarette between the shapely fingers of his right hand--I had not before
seen any one smoke at the dinner-table--his brown velvet coat, his languidly graceful gestures,
the delicate hue of his flowing neck-tie, the costly sort of negligence of his whole dress
and deportment--all these trifling matters were alike rare and exquisite in my eyes.

After their fashion the day, and in particular the evening, were an education for me. I spent
a couple of hours over the short homeward journey to Mill Street, the better to savour and
consider my impressions. The previous day belonged to my remote past. I had travelled through
ages of experience since then. For example, I quite definitely was no longer proud of being
a clerk in an office. As I realised this I smiled down as from a great height upon a recollection
of the chorus of a Scots ditty sung by a sailor on board the Ariadne. I have no notion of how
to spell the words, but they ran somewhat in this wise:

  'Wi' a Hi heu honal, an' a honal heu hi,
  Comelachie, Ecclefechan, Ochtermochty an' Mulgye,
  Wi' a Hi heu honal, an' a honal heu hi,
  It's a braw thing a clairk in an orfiss.'

Well, it was no such a braw thing to me that night, as it had seemed on the previous day. I
had heard the word 'commercial' spoken with an intonation which I fancied Mr. Smith would greatly
resent. But I did not resent it. And that was another of the fruits of my immense experience:
Mr. Smith would never again hold first place as my mentor. How could he? Why, even some of
my own innocent notions of the past--of pre-Macquarie Street days--seemed nearer the real thing
than one or two of poor Mr. Smith's obiter dicta. I had noted the hats of that elect assemblage,
and there had not been a billycock among them. Presented in his
mind how well behaved Echeloría, sullen as a cat and steady as a rock saw the royal and noble
detachment behavior of Solomon, and considered unworthy and wanted to remember his infidelities
with Chem, which would open the earth and swallow him.

These remorse, the sorrow and the blush of guilt were, however, quite of savory and sweet. Oh,
how soon all this was changed to bitterness when he heard Mutileder
what was said in Jerusalem public streets and squares! Was it possible that a week ago I had been
a handy lad, dressed merely in shirt and trousers, and engaged in planting out tomatoes? I
arrived at the corner of Mill Street, and turning on my heel walked away from it. I wanted
to try over, out loud, one or two such phrases as these:

'I've been dining with an artist friend in Macquarie Street!'--'I was saying this afternoon
to the editor of the Chronicle'--'I met some delightful people at my friend Mr. Rawlence's
studio this afternoon!'

But, upon the whole, there was a more subtle joy in the enunciation of certain other remarks,
supposed to come from somebody else:

'I met Mr. Freydon, Mr. Nicholas Freydon, you know, this afternoon. He had looked in at Rawlence's
studio in Macquarie Street. In fact, I believe he stayed there to dinner before going on to
his rooms at North Shore. Rawlence certainly does get all the most interesting people at his
place. Landon, the painter, was deep in conversation with Mr. Freydon. No, I don't know what
Mr. Freydon does--some secretarial appointment, I fancy. He's evidently a great friend of Rawlence's.'

It is surprising that I can set these things down with no particular sense of shame. I distinctly
remember striding along the deserted roads, speaking these absurdities aloud, in an only slightly
subdued conversational voice. My mood was one of remarkable exaltation. I wonder if other young
men have been equally mad!

'How d'ye do, Foster?' I would murmur airily as I swung round a corner. 'Have you seen my new
book?'; or, 'I noticed you published that article of mine yesterday!' Presently I found myself
in open, scrub-covered country, and singing, quite loudly, the old sailor's doggerel about
its being a braw thing to be a 'clairk in an orfiss'; my real thought being that it was a braw
thing to be Nicholas Freydon, a clerk in an office, who was very soon to be something quite
otherwise.

I am not quite sure if this mood was typical of the happy madness of youth. There may have
been a lamentable kind of snobbery about it; I dare say. I only know this was my mood; these
were my apparently crazy actions on that remote Sunday night. And, too, before getting into
bed that night--fortunately for himself, perhaps, poor Mr. Smith was already asleep, and so
safe from my loquacity--I carefully folded the two magnificent rainbow-hued silk handkerchiefs
which good Mrs. Gabbitas had given me, and stowed them away at the very bottom of my ancient
carpet-bag.

The sort of remarks which I had been addressing to the moon were not remarks which I ever should
have dreamed of addressing to any human being. I think in justice I might add that. But I had
greatly enjoyed hearing myself say them to the silent night.

XVIII

Actually, I dare say the process of one's sophistication was gradual enough. But looking back
now upon my Dursley period, and the four years spent in Sydney--and, indeed, my stay in the
Orphanage, and my life with my father in Livorno Bay--it appears to me that my growth, education,
development, whatever it may be called, came at intervals, jerkily, in sudden leaps forward.
The truth probably is that the development was constant and steady, but that its symptoms declared
themselves spasmodically.

It would seem that there ought to have been a phase of smart, clerkly dandyism; but perhaps
Mr. Rawlence's kindly hospitality in Macquarie Street nipped that in the bud, substituting
for it a kind of twopenny æstheticism, which made me affect floppy neckties and a studied negligence
of dress, combined with some neglect of the barber. In these things, as in certain other matters,
there were some singular contradictions and inconsistencies in me, and I was distinctly precocious.
The precocity was due, I take it, to the fact that I had never known family life, and that
my companions had always been older than myself. I fancy that most people I met supposed me
to be at least three or four years older than I was, and were sedulously encouraged by me in
that supposition. I was precocious, too, in another way. I could have grown a beard and moustache
at seventeen. Instead, I assiduously plied the razor night and morning, and derived satisfaction
from something which irritated me greatly in later years--the remarkably rapid and sturdy growth
of my beard.

As against these extravagances I must record the fact that my parsimony in monetary matters
survived. Mr. John, in Sussex Street, presently raised my salary to two pounds ten shillings
a week; but I continued to share Mr. Smith's bedroom, and to pay only sixteen shillings weekly
for my board and lodging. What was more to the point, I was equally careful in most other matters
affecting expenditure, and never added less than a pound each week to my savings bank account;
an achievement by no means always equalled in after years, even when earnings were ten times
larger. I may have, and did indulge in the most extravagant conceits of the mind. But these
never seriously affected my pocket.

There is perhaps something rather distasteful in the idea of so much economic prudence in one
so young. A certain generous carelessness is proper to youth. Well, I had none of it, at this
time, in money matters. And, distasteful or not, I am glad of it, since, at all events, it
had this advantage: at a very critical period I was preserved from the grosser and more perilous
indulgences of youth. When the time did arrive at which I ceased to be very careful in money
spending, I had presumably acquired a little more balance, and was a little safer than in those
adolescent Sydney years.

Here again my qualities were presumably the product of my condition and circumstances. To be
left quite alone in the world while yet a child, as I had been, does, I apprehend, stimulate
a certain worldly prudence in regard, at all events, to so obvious a matter as the balance
of income and expenditure. I felt that if I were ever stranded and penniless there would be
no one in the whole world to lend me a helping hand, or to save me from being cut adrift from
all that I had come to hold precious, and flung back into the slough of manual labour--for
that, curiously enough, is how I then regarded it. Not, of course, that I had found manual
work in itself unpleasant in any way; but that I then considered my escape from it had carried
me into a social and mental atmosphere superior to that which the manual worker could reach.

Except when he was absent from Sydney, Mr. Rawlence always received his friends at the Macquarie
Street studio on Sundays, and none was more regular in attendance than myself. It would be
very easy, of course, to be sarcastic at Mr. Rawlence's expense; to poke fun at the well-to-do
gentleman approaching middle age, who clung to the pretence of being a working artist, and
to avoid criticism, or because more mature workers would not seek his society, liked to surround
himself with neophytes--a Triton among minnows. Son, it must be something in life: one believes that a poor, women, nine children, two and
three sisters-in-law, two mothers in law, yes sir, mother and grandmother of my wife and if
one does not contrive to keep this FAMILION ... The truth is that everyone di cordelejo: D. Mauro,
the fool of John of God, and yourself, now resurrected to ask me to Agnes. "But you love her?
Anda, zanguango, cortéjala, to see if you can marry her, which, although difficult, not impossible
..., the girl will have a regular feat, and you could inherit primogeniture and the title, which
will, according to the tenor of the scriptures ... Ah, ragamuffin! I it seems that you bring
a little project between the eyes. Are you going to Cordoba? Hey I remember that I called
up, crying dove very tender, half-dead when the driving in the litter my intern and me. Ja,
ja, ja! Do you know what I laugh? That goose Juan de Dios, which was here the other day, and
kneeling before me, I said, 'Give me Agnes, because I'm dying without it! Give it to me you kill
me today and tomorrow! "It was a comedy, Gabriel, and although we laughed a lot, so we finally got
tired, we had to throw a stick in the clerkship.

I lent sustained attention to these and many other reasons the lawyer Lobo, which, for that
nothing was missing in his inexplicable kindness and courtesy, at the time said to me goodbye
that perhaps could give me some lessons in Latin, if I was in the mood, as it was so great humanist,
to earn his bread by teaching. Tell him thank you, and so satisfied I retired from the results of
my research, that same day when I decided to go to Cordoba was restored.

Will

I still you, and, tired of these adventures, they will leave it to run only in resolving issues more
interested than anyone else that this writer? No, I hope not so we part untimely, and when
it appears likely that, following me, you attended a show that make them more bearable annoyance
of my personal stories. We, therefore, and take account with us, Mr. de Santorcaz, who lead
the country Andalusian family matters. I told him that wanted to take me as a squire, but he said
he had no money to pay my services, because their stock was not available to meet expenses of
servitude and would welcome take sick as a companion and friend. That was, in effect, and as
I needed a few days of recovery, he waited for me, and one of the last days May or early June,
after I left my obsequious guards, accounting as I could, and John of God, who hid the object
of my expedition, we set off.

VI

As Santorcaz was poor, and I still poorer, our trip was so irregular,
which that we described in old novels.

We do not take any classes systematically in uncomfortable vehicles known in our Spain, on
several occasions walked in galley male others, if they offered us their horses the carriers
who become the Stain vacuum, and more often on foot. We did night in inns and hostelries of
the road where Santorcaz wearing his prodigious skill at not spending, always managing to serve
him well. To these and other mischief, my friend posing as a famous character, sending me that Excellence
and call him before I discovered him whenever we looked at the innkeeper. I met promptly and
with such artifice, more than once, in addition to not paying anything, leaving to say goodbye
humbly begging dispense them bad service.

Beyond Noble and Villarrubia de Santiago, and when after a long day
sesteábamos, sections of the road, next to the chapel of the Holy
Child, we added a waiter told us bore the same way that we and since
then was our constant companion.

Was about twenty years, was called Andresillo Marijuán, and although a native of Aragon, was to serve
muleteer a town of Andalusia, home of the Countess of Rumble, his mistress and lady, since
it owned farms in the land of Almunia de Doña Godina was born the young man. At once frank and
cheerful genius sympathized with me and we became close friends. Santorcaz treated us superior,
but without tyranny. When arriving at an inn riding him in evil male and we walk, we were going
to hold the stirrup and then remove spurs, bursting into compliments and courtesies, we had to
grit their teeth for not release the laughter. Marijuán, what better than to pretend I knew, was
in charge of directing the landlord to give him the best master of the pantry, because His
Excellency, who was Regent Seville, was a man fiercely punished terrible and the innkeepers that served
him well.

So we crossed the Channel, sad and lonely country, where the sun is in his kingdom and man seems
to work exclusively from sun and dust; country among all known since
the world hase used to assume the immensity of the plains traversed
by the horse D. Quixote.

In general opinion is the ugliest Mancha and the least picturesque of all the lands known and
the traveler who comes today from the East Coast or Andalusia, was bored with the wicket the
car, eager to end soon that bare steppe, which as still and stagnant sea ​​of ​​land, offers no accident
eyes, no surprise, nor variety, nor any pleasure. This is true: the English Channel, if you have
beauty, is the whole beauty of its own bareness and monotony, which, if not distracting or suspended
imagination, freeing up, giving space and light where rush without mishap. The greatness of the
thought of D. Quixote not only understand the greatness of La Mancha. In a mountainous country,
cool, green town of welcome shade, with beautiful homes, flower gardens, warm light and thick
atmosphere, D. Quixote could not have existed and would have died in bloom, after the first ride,
no surprise the world with the great deeds of the latter.

Don Quijote needed that horizon, that land without roads, which, however, all of it is the
way, that land without directions, because of it goes anywhere, without going determinedly any, land
crossed by the paths of chance, adventure, and where everything pareer
must pass charges of chance or of the geniuses of the fable that needed
sun melts the brain and makes the sane crazy, that endless field where
stands imaginary battles powder, producing the transparency of light,
visions of armies of giants, towers, castles, cities need this shortage
that makes it rare and the presence of an extraordinary man or an
animal need silence when There are quiet, and this prodigious roar
when storm winds; quiet and noise are equally saddened and extend
their sadness to everything that happens, so if you are a human being
in the wilderness, to the point he is a creep, a distressed a beggar,
a grievant who is looking for protection against the oppressors and
tyrants; needed, again, this total absence of human works representing
positivism practical sense, limits to the imagination, which would
stop its senseless flight needed, in short, that man does not put
more samples in those fields of industry and his science that patriarchal
windmills, to which only the missing language to be colossal, restless
and furious, which from a distance call and scare the traveler threatening
gestures.

VII

This is the English Channel. While crossing could not help remembering D. Quixote, whose reading
was fresh in my mind. During our days we were bored enough, except when Santorcaz We had some extraordinary
event that was witnessed in distant lands. A Once we left with an open mouth telling the feast
of the coronation of Bonaparte, with all their hair and signs, and again we put the hair on
end talking the most famous battle of the many that had been found. When we had men in two
males who provided little money for some carriers of Villarta, and I'm not sure if we pierced
and the term of Puerto Lápiche or were going into it. I do remember is that to escape the
heat we started our journey long before sunrise, and night was hazy, the sky overcast and gloomy,
damp earth the strong storm water to unload the previous day.

I should point out the landscape before us, because unless the picturesque relationship Santorcaz,
it helped to impress my senses. The road was straight to us left elevábanse a gently rolling hills
which were lost in the dilated forming horizon bends at the bottom and far away you could
see a hill higher on the skirt of which seemed to distinguish the
houses of a village on the right soil lay completely flat, and the
immense power crust and takes a stream and rainwater were many small
pools, the surfaces, illuminated by the moon, offered for the misleading
perspective view of a large swamp or marsh.

I have spoken of the moon, and I must add that this star, disfiguring
of the things of earth, paid imposing solemnity bare and lonely landscape,
leaving a dark clarified alternatively, depending on whether or not
gave way to his pale rays the gaps, tears and acribilladuras clouds.

Santorcaz, after a moment of silence and meditation, held his horse, he stood in the middle
the road, and gazing with a rapture the distant horizon, the hills on the left and puddles on the
right, spoke thus:

- I'm amazed, because I've never seen two things that seem so much like this country to another
far away where I was three years ago at this same time, in the early hours of 2 December. Is
it my imagination that I reproduce the forms of that famous place, or miraculous art we are in
it? Gabriel, is not there right in front and a large swamps? Can not see the ending left a few hills
at the top with a small wood?

Do not be raised before a hill in a village whose skirt whitening? And those towers distinguish
the other side of the hill, are not those of the castle of Austerlitz?

Marijuán and I laughed, saying that he put off such things, and if well as the pools were true,
there was no castle Terlin or anything. Then he placed the horse to step and sending us to
follow him on either side, went on as follows:

- Guys, I can not forget that famous day, we call the Three Emperors, and that is certainly the
bloodiest, the most glorious, most business with which he illustrated his name the great tyrant,
godlike man, whom I can now appoint a mouthful, because we do not hear more than heaven and
earth. Let me tell you guys, that ye may know what is the hatchet in the hands of the woodcutter
in Europe.

I was in Paris without resources, after being on Latin teacher, a painter of signs, Ventadour showgirl,
Swordsman, server émigré Coblentz, postilion prosecuted, saithe and typesetter printing, when enlisted
in the army of Boulogne, intended to give a coup de main against
England ... When the Emperor moved us suddenly, without revealing
his thoughts, the heart of Europe, were somewhat piqued because the
violent marches mortified us much, and as we were dunces, we did not
understand the plans of our boss.

But After the capitulation of Ulm, we thought we were the first soldiers of the world, and speaking
the Prussians and the Russians, we laughed at them, tried until unworthy of our bullets. When
we passed the Inn, as they prepared to boast about great things to boarding in Moravia, after
the action of Hollabrunn, we realized that the Russian-Austrian army We would submit formal battle.
What was not restricted to our heads was the reason if we would take the offensive or defensive
operators. But the big head, one that has a lock on the front and the beam between the eyes,
it would decide soon.

At this point came, when we marched twisted road to the right, describing a great lap, so that was
a right angle to its original direction. Santorcaz again amazed at what seemed to him extraordinary
coincidence, continued:

- But this is not the way Olmutz?

Gabriel, or is this very thing, or it looks like one drop to another drop. Look, now we face
the swamp to our left Satzchan Pratz Hill. Look over there. Do not you hear the sound of drums?
Do not you see some lights? Then there are the Russians and Austrians. Do you know what your intention?
They want to cut off the road to Vienna, to which will come down the hill and placed among
Pratz our right and wetlands. See if you are stupid! That is exactly what we want the Emperor,
and everything has to make it appear that we retired to Vienna. Imagine that here is our army,
consisting of seventy thousand men, whose immense compared occupy all Hills left the road and part
of the plain on the right. The Emperor after filling the nostrils of snuff, leaving at midnight
to walk the field and observe the enemy's movements. See?, For there is. Did not hear the footsteps
of his horse and cheers that greet you soldiers? Can not see the glow of bonfires that light in
its path? But you do not see this? Bah! It is my hope, but such stirs my memories as the similarity
of the landscape that I seem to see and hear what I'm counting ... But you will want to know
how it was we beat the Russians and Austrians, and I'm going to refer. At dawn, oh, boys!, The
Russians down mechanically by that high hill opposite, in order to come to our right to cut
off the road. Do not forget that here before we have a meandering stream that comes from left
to right until it was lost in the marshes. The Emperor had the right to pass the stream and verified,
the Russians attacked. The center, commanded by Soult and Lannes left, eager to enter into
fire, but the Emperor containing the ardor of those generals, to
await the Russians had just committed folly to go down from the heights
of Pratz to get into the mother Golbasch Brook.

I will explain it. There, in the distance and at the foot of the hill, are the villages of Telnitz
and Sokolnitz ...

- If there is not such villages, sir - interrupted Marijuán, unruly to the mystification.

- Fool, will you shut up? - Continued Freemason -. I know what I am saying, is that all Napoleon's
desire, after he saw off the Russians, was to take those villages After seizing the ridge in front
of us. Do not you see? Well Generals Soult Lannes and departed at a gallop to direct the operations
of the center and left. I belonged to the center, and was at 17. Number of orders online and
Vandamme. Move towards the stream, you see?, we went through here in a hurry.

"If there are no such stream - Marijuán said, laughing -. You if you have a head full of streams
and villages, and right and left.

- We arrived at the village of Telnitz and there began the attack - continued unabashedly Santorcaz
-. In the hill were still twenty-seven Russian infantry battalions and Austrian errands in
person by the two emperors and the Russian Commander in Chief Kutusof. Ah, boys, if could have seen
that! Look to front, because from here it is quite different from the position which respectively
had: them over, we below ... At first we were riddled; but Soult sent us up at all costs, and up defying
the rain of bullets.
 Mr. Smith kindly offered the loan of his time-honoured
evening suit, pointing out, I dare say truly, that such garments were being 'cut very full
just now.' But, no; I felt that the occasion demanded an epoch-marking plunge on my part; and
to this end Mr. Smith was good enough to introduce me to his own tailor, through whom, as I
understood, I could obtain the benefit of some sort of trade reduction in price, by virtue
of Mr. Smith's one time position as a commercial traveller.

During the week the eddies caused by my plunge penetrated beyond the world of tailoring, and
doubtless produced their effect upon the white tie and patent leather shoe trade. But despite
my lavish preparations, Saturday afternoon found me in the blackest kind of despair. Fully
dressed in evening kit, I had been sitting on my bed for an hour, well knowing that all shops
were closed, and facing the lamentable fact that I had no suitable outer garment with which
to cloak my splendour on the way to Potts Point. It was Mr. Smith who discovered the omission,
and he, too, who had made me feel the full tragedy of it. The covert coat he pressed upon me
would easily have buttoned behind my back, and Mrs. Hastings's kindly offer of a shawl (a vivid
plaid which she assured me had been worn and purchased by no less an authority upon gentlemen's
wear than her father) had been finally, almost bitterly, rejected by me.

It was then, when my fate seemed blackest to me, that Mr. Smith discovered in the prolific
galleries of his well-stored memory the fact that it was perfectly permissible for a gentleman
in my case to go uncovered by any outer robe, providing--and this was indispensable--that he
carried some preferably light cloak or overcoat upon his arm.

'And the weather being close and hot, too, as it certainly is to-night, I'll wager you'll find
you're quite in the mode if you get to Potts Point with my covert coat on your arm. So that
settles it.'

It did; and I was duly grateful. It certainly was a hot evening, and in no sense any fault
of Mr. Smith's that its warmth brought a heavy thunderstorm of rain just as I began my walk
up the long hill at Potts Point, so that, taking shelter here and there, as opportunity offered,
but not daring to put on the enormously over-large coat, I finally ran up to the house in pouring
rain, with a coat neatly folded over one arm. A few years later, no doubt, I should have been
glad to slip the coat on, or fling it over my head. But--it did not happen a few years later....

My worshipful adoration of Miss Foster made me neglectful even of Mr. Rawlence's Sunday afternoon
receptions. To secure the chance of being rewarded by five minutes alone with her, in the garden
or elsewhere, I suppose I must have given up hundreds of hours from a not very plentiful allowance
of leisure. And it is surprising, in retrospect, to note how steadfast I was in my devotion;
how long it lasted.

The young woman had ability; there's not a doubt of that. For, ardent though I was, she allowed
no embarrassing questions. I am free to suppose that my devotion was not unwelcome or tiresome
to her, and that she enjoyed its innumerable small fruits in the shape of offerings. But she
kept me most accurately balanced at the precise distance she found most agreeable. My letters--the
columns and columns I must have written!--were most fervid; and a good deal more eloquent,
I fancy, than my oral courtship. But yet I have her own testimony for it that Mabel approved
my declamatory style of love-making; the style used when actually in the presence.

The end was in this wise: I called, ostensibly to see Mrs. Foster, on a Saturday afternoon,
when I knew, as a matter of fact, that my chief and his wife were attending a function in Sydney.
It was a winter's day, very blusterous and wet. The servant having told me her mistress was
out, and Miss Mabel in, was about to lead me through the long, wide hall to the drawing-room,
which opened through a conservatory upon a rear verandah, when some one called her, and I assured
her I could find my own way. So the smiling maid (who doubtless knew my secret) left me, and
I leisurely disposed of coat and umbrella, and walked through the house. The shadowy drawing-room
was empty, but, as I entered it, these words, spoken in Mabel's voice, reached me from the
conservatory beyond:

'My dear Hester, how perfectly absurd. A little unknown reporter boy, picked up by father,
probably out of charity! And, besides, you know I should always be true to Tommy, however long
he is away. Why, I often mention my reporter boy to Tommy in writing. And he is delicious,
you know; he really is. I believe you're jealous. He is a pretty boy, I know. But you'd hardly
credit how sweetly he-- Well, romances, you know. He really is too killingly sweet when he
makes love-- Oh, with the most knightly respect, my dear! Very likely he will come in this
afternoon, and you shall hear for yourself. You shall sit out here, and I'll keep him in the
drawing-room. Then you'll see how well in hand he is.'

It was probably contemptible of me not to have coughed, or blown my nose, or something, in
the first ten seconds. But the whole speech did not occupy very many seconds in the making,
and was half finished before I realised, with a stunning shock, what it meant. It went on after
the last words I have written here, but at that point I retired, backward, into the hall to
collect myself, as they say. I had various brilliant ideas in the few seconds given to this
process. I saw myself, pitiless but full of dignity, inflicting scathing punishment of various
kinds, and piling blazing coals of fire upon Mabel's pretty head. I thought, too, of merely
disappearing, and leaving conscience to make martyrdom of my fair lady's life. But perhaps
I doubted the inquisitorial capacity of her conscience. At all events, in the end, I rattled
the drawing-room door-handle vigorously, and re-entered with a portentous clearing of the throat.
There was a flutter and patter in the conservatory, and then the hitherto adored one came in
to me, an open book in her hand, and witchery in both her liquid eyes.

And then a most embarrassing and unexpected thing happened. My wrath fell from me, carrying
with it all my smarting sense of humiliation, and every vestige of the desire to humiliate
or punish Mabel. I was left horribly unprotected, because conscious only of the totally unexpected
fact that Mabel was still adorable, and that now, when about to leave her for ever, I wanted
her more than at any previous time. Then help came to me. I heard a tiny footfall, light as
a leaf's touch, on the paved floor of the conservatory. I pictured the listening Hester Prinsep,
and pride, or some useful substitute therefor, came to my aid.

'I'm afraid I've interrupted you,' I said, making a huge effort to avoid seeing the witchery
in Mabel's eyes. 'I only came to bring this book for Mrs. Foster. I had promised it.'

'But why so solemn, poor knight? What's wrong? Won't you sit down?' said Mabel gaily.

'No, I mustn't stay,' I replied, with Spartan firmness. And then, on a sudden impulse: 'Don't
you think we've both been rather mistaken, Mabel? I've been silly and presumptuous, because,
of course, I'm nobody--just a penniless newspaper reporter. And you--you are very dear and
sweet, and will soon marry some one who can give you a house like this, in Potts Point. I--I've
all my way to make yet, and--and so I'd like to say good-bye. And--thank you ever so much for
always having been so sweet and so patient. Good-bye!'

'Why? Aren't you--Won't you--Good-bye then!'

And so I passed out; and, having quite relinquished any thought of reprisals, I believe perhaps
I did, after all, bring a momentary twinge of remorse to pretty, giddy Mabel Foster. I never
saw her again but once, and that as a mere acquaintance, and when almost a year had passed.

XX

I have no idea what made me fix upon the particular sum of two hundred pounds as the amount
of capital required for my migration oversea to England; but that was the figure I had in mind.
At the time it seemed that the decision to go home--England is still regularly spoken of as
'home' by tens of thousands of British subjects who never have set eyes upon its shores, and
are not acquainted with any living soul in the British Isles--came to me after that eventful
afternoon at Potts Point. And as a definite decision, with anything like a date in view, perhaps
it did not come till then. But the tendency in that direction had been present for a long while.

It would seem, however, that at every period of my life I have always been feeding upon some
one predominant plan, desire, or objective. For many months prior to that afternoon at Potts
Point, my adoration of Mabel Foster had overshadowed all else, and made me most unusually careless
of other interests. This preoccupation having come to an abrupt end was succeeded almost immediately
by the fixed determination to go to England as soon as I could acquire the sum of two hundred
pounds. Into the pursuit then of this sum of money I now plunged with considerable vehemence.

As a matter of fact, I suppose the task of putting together a couple of hundred pounds, in
London say, would be a pretty considerable one for a youngster without family or influence.
It was not a hard one for me, in Sydney. I might probably have possessed the amount at this
very time, but for my single period of extravagance--the time of devotion to Miss Foster. Putting
aside the vagaries of that period, I saved money automatically. Mere living and journeying
to and from the office cost me less than a pound each week. My pleasures cost less than half
that amount all told; and as one outcome of my year's extravagance, I was now handsomely provided
for in the matter of clothes.

But I will not pretend that hoarding for the great adventure of going to England did not involve
some small sacrifices. It did. To take one trifle now. I had formed a habit of dropping into
a restaurant, Quong Tart's by name, for a cup of afternoon tea each day; in the first place
because I had heard Mabel Foster speak of going there for the same purpose with her friend
Hester Prinsep. Sometimes
the forms assumed burning logs bartered his imagination in people and happenings real, and so became
that home on stage, in which often represented the grim drama of his life.

The first act, as it was of little interest. After his early years, after next to his mother saw
his college life, sad life and no friends, so much influenced his character, making sullen and
withdrawn.

The second act began with a frightening picture. On the bed lay his mother's death, the it only
being loved, and next, standing contemplábala a severe man, almost
revolting: his father.

Sucedíanse other acts of the drama with fidelity. Don Alejandro ran major capitals of the world
in search of distraction, but all fled from him, be like a infectious, thus embittered his character
more and more. When returning home, he found his father was dying. Without feeling any pain, saw how
they turned out the existence of the author of his life.

The doctor indicated that no further action ... Came the priest,
but the dying stating he could only with great difficulty, the words:

-
The chest ...!

The room that was Don Alejandro kept many works of art and antiques. Among them, in a corner of
the room was a large iron chest, covered almost in its entirety, with brass nails and rivets.
This was, without doubt, the casket which the dying man had intended
to, but the key had been found and the secret if it was secret, has
been ignored.

For the thousandth time, Don Alejandro glanced towards the corner
of the room, and trembled to see that the hood was open.

The heavy lid resting against the wall, revealing the ancient and complicated mechanism of a
lock.

The old long remained without power away from that place the frightened eyes. For end, making a supreme
effort, he left his seat next to the fireplace, and a sense of terror, he went to the chest.
At first he could see nothing inside, but few moments later saw a
yellow rectangle lying on the bottom.

Hincóse knees and with trembling hands removed the object. It was an envelope, stained over
time, no sign of any kind.

Formidable sudden noise made him turn his head, frightened, and saw that the cover trunk had fallen
into place, closing it again.

He returned to the home side to read the contents of the envelope, but their hands were so trembling,
unable to verify. After a few moments, he managed to win on peace, opened the cover and with eyes
of terror, extracted the statement contained therein. But head was spinning and had to rely on
the chair to keep from falling to the ground.

Set of New eyes on the hearth, and saw clearly the dreadful scene of his death mother. Stunned,
looked the old man around furtively, afraid of being observed, and
decided make an effort to read the statement, but the paper ran away
from his trembling hands and fell the flames that consumed it voraciously.

Don

Alejandro looked toward the corner where there was a closed casket
and even closer to chimney, but, despite its proximity to the fire
was cold.

IMAGO Tristis

Talked, my friend and I, of indifferent and trivial.

The sun about to disappear, cast light upon the earth warm and reddish, and the heat coming through the
open window seemed to spread throughout the room. The columns of smoke from our cigarettes
light rose up together in clouds that were nesting in the coffered wooden ceiling, and damask
that covered the walls took on a richer tint than usual.

The conversation began to languish, and there came a time when both were silent, as if they
obey some mysterious command. I had some pride in that room, that putting together he possessed
more courage and deep affection, and was not the first time since my chair looked all over
the furniture and paintings that adorned.

Rafael also liked that collection and often praised, so I was not surprised to see it go to the
hearing this motley collection of objects. Across from where we sat, hung the wall a portrait bust
of my mother, dressed in the fashion of the Second Empire.

Despite light which at times grew fainter, the portrait stood out
very well, and was accentuated on his face the ineffable sweetness
that the painter had managed to faithfully reproduce.

I do not know how long silent. Suddenly I felt a rush of melancholy as and I looked at the
portrait. I shuddered at the sight, and I noticed that my friend suffered the same printing.
We looked at both, and he stands and said very softly:

- She's crying!

I nodded, and my partner to step softly, left the room and shut the
door after him carefully.

Then I seized with great anxiety, I went and saw the portrait is encouraged.

A cloud of sadness clouded my mother's face, and tears welled in her
eyes fell more abundantly.

They moved her lips and heard the voice again silenced than twenty
years.

- My son!

I feel great pity for you! The way you have to travel is rough and difficult, and great suffering
will be yours. That's why I feel so great pity for you. Never make anyone share in your troubles,
or your best friend always save them for you. Be stingy about your feelings, to tell nobody.
My son, how much compassion I feel for you!

                       The shadows of the night broke almost immediately and soon I was wrapped
in thick darkness.

Finally, after a short time is not turned on the light and opened the door. Rafael was in the gallery,
in the hollow of a window, and to me, seemed to wake from a dream.

- Rafael ...! I cried, but he interrupted me, saying:

- Do not tell me no, no, not me I'm your best friend!

And silently enter the room again. With artificial light, all things presented its usual appearance,
and the portrait of my mother Inaf sweetness of her face. Below him, on a table, was my last
sonnet, I took to read it to Rafael, and I found it was wet and smudged.

CHESS PLAYERS

A ROBERTO MONTENEGRO.

I

Anxieties, india tarasca purebred, was a teacher in the difficult art of caring and entertaining
children. For several years he served in my family, lavishing his care, in turn, five brothers
were. If our house was visited by an illness, Angus was always at the bedside, and when it came to
wipe away tears, the result some prank of boys, the kind word soon gave us comfort. But the science
of caring nanny was more apparent when we were happy. Inventing games new, truly bizarre gestures, thanks
to all classical features, or storytelling never imagined, made us very pleasant and the evening
hours, arrival time, could drive gently into the world of dreams. Another special gift of Sorrows
was the prompt response that led to the many pilgrims who used to ask questions the little people.
Such was the spontaneity of the response and so great aplomb with which the did, never put into question
by her proposed solution to any problem that was presented to our children's brains.

The memories of my childhood are closely linked to the Hacienda de San Isidro Labrador where he
resided most of the year. The farm, near Mexico City, was owned of the Society of Jesus from
the earliest times of the Colony, and when the famous religious were expelled from Spanish dominions,
for the reasons that Charles III had see fit to "in real breast," was purchased by my ancestor.
Understandably, then, the house of the Hacienda had more character monastery farm field, and
my father following the example of their elders, always wanted to retain the austere aspect which
initially had.

The rooms, all vaulted and very high; the endless cloisters with
semicircular arches, the walls, thick as a medieval castle, and mainly
fast throughout the region of natural wonders - they bore, as the
only galas, large maguey and one or eucalyptus in the middle of fields
of maize and barley - were of the Treasury San Isidro Labrador a place
that many repugnant, but others, in contrast, attracted by their very
nakedness and severity.

Needless to say I think for us it was a real "Buen retiro", in those
days still retained many of the customs of the Viceroyalty and my
father was for laborers and servants, rather than the master who should
be respected, the chief of an extensive family.

The chapel was perhaps the most interesting room of the Hacienda. It was not long, but he held huge
altarpiece of gilded wood churriguerra style, tiled plinth and pavement marble flagstones black and
white, alternating. What most struck me were the graves of my ancestors. Embedded in both side
walls of the presbytery, complained bitterly niches covered with slabs of alabaster tracks,
recorded with long epitaphs, and over once since I started reading, I was distracted at Mass
or Rosary, trying to decipher those signs, crossed and unintelligible to me.

One night on his way to my room, it occurred to this question:

- Angus, what do the dead of the chapel at night?

And India, without hesitation, replied:

- They play chess.

I almost every night, requiring the blessing of my father, I was in the library playing chess with
Don Pepe Dávalos, Mayor of neighboring villages, was not surprised response. A game in which
two men sat face to face for a long space time, without a word and without moving just the odd
pieces of wood between they had, and that lend themselves so admirably to play with toy soldiers,
a game and, again, I seemed especially designed to be dead for the living, and the response of
Sorrows was convincing.

- Yes, continued the housekeeper. Every night as you lie down to sleep, they become to play
chess until it reaches the Father to say mass. Then they return to their graves which, as it
were, their beds, and sleep during the day.

And having said the usual prayers for my parents and brothers, and another for my jerkin said,
for my horse "The Confite" fell asleep at the time.

II

Many years later, when I returned from Spain, married and with a woman of my own race, I found
the San Isidro Labrador things very different from when I left. My parents, two brothers and
Angus had gone of life, and Don Pepe Dávalos, deposed municipal sick and old wandered through
the cloisters, the chess games longing to "His Grace the Mr. Don Alonso. "I noticed the friendly
affection of many servants had amenguado thanks certain winds blew North fronds, and I felt
from the beginning marked repulsion by the new administrator of the Treasury, appointed by the
executor of my father. His name was Don Guadalupe Robles, and insolent appearance showed clearly that
it had once been bold and tough guerrilla chieftain.

Many feared that the Treasury had little appeal to my wife, but Agnes, used the austerities of Spanish
tower, San Isidro Labrador found much to his liking, and she suggested us to fix our residence
there.

After a few months, and approaching the owner of the land party, my wife, by dint good Madrid
suggested that the party was celebrated with special pomp. Therefore prepared clothes to distribute
to the poor flowers commissioned to adorn the house and chapel, and invited, Pontifical Mass
to sing, a certain bishop, who, since childhood, I called "Uncle
Bishop", but really lacked any relationship.

I agreed willingly, both to please Agnes, as I have found the occasion to make it look a lot
of objects, which, as a collector of antiques enthusiast, I boasted. The non-negligible flow
vestments and sacred vessels, which the Treasury had donated my ancestors,
I added a large collection of objects found some in dilapidated cities,
brought others from the Peninsula.

I was especially notable rich collection engraved silver, consisted of several dozen candlesticks,
large and small, lecterns, ornamental vases and planters, not a few torches, some chalices and
goblets, and a custody I was pleased that I attributed to Juan de Arfe and Villafañe. But what
I liked and showed I to my friends with great pride, was a game I learned in Cintra censers. Work
Portuguese full of XVIII century, will be understood of course that such sachets were to be
extravagant, in fact, measuring two feet high, and affected the unusual form of Pegasus, but his
work was so complete, that really could be in the best collection of art objects.

With all these elements, I realized that the magnificent altarpiece, whose intricate covered
litter the main wall of the chapel with twisted columns and pilasters, pediments interrupted
whimsical brackets and canopies sheltering niches and polychrome sculptures, would shine the
rich and if you want great set of gold and silver, like a glowing ember, and started to make preparations
with no little enthusiasm.

Arriving on the eve of the feast, I went into the chapel to arrange and vínoseme to my mind a world
of memories. Watching the funeral allegories and signs reading of the gravestones, which worried
both my childhood years, I saw again a thousand incidents of my childhood
and listened once again, the voice of loved ones, including Angus,
whom I dogmatically asserted that my dead played chess every night
....

I ran the placement of the various ornaments on the altar and
sanctuary, where Don Guadalupe Robles went to the chapel, under the
pretext of consulting agreement does not end administration of the
estate, and gathered there to see the flow, greed reflected in his
face making direct eye while talking with me, one by another object,
whose existence is not even suspected.

Then it was more my disgust for this man, and I certainly believe that this attempt to rob me,
that throughout the night I could not dismiss this thought in my
mind, and left the bed very early, when still asleep silent masters
and servants.

With the first light of dawn, I entered the chapel. At first glance, most objects remained in the
places where you placed the day before, but what Judge yourself would be my amazement, seeing that
a large number of candlesticks, vases and other lay scattered on the ground in utter chaos! Nothing
remained standing, cornered in an angle below choir, four objects. I approached, and a shiver ran
through my body. The dead had played a game of chess!

Yes, there in the corner, on the tile white, was a brazier, and in front of him, except a row
of tables, and occupying their respective boxes, a vase, a small spotlight and one of the perfumers,
this is the closest to the wall. Yes these three parts - the bishop, pawn and knight, - had
been mated to the brazier or the King!

After some time, I could control myself and I said with a trembling hand on the different sites
objects, so that no more than I realized the event.

The party was held properly, and both the Bishop and the friends who visited our invitation,
there were languages ​​of the beauty and richness of my collection. But I paid little attention
to such compliments, seized my mind with the enigma and the suspicions harbored against Don Guadalupe
Robles. These increased when I surprised him at dusk, in the shadows the corridor, talking
quietly with Joaquin, his fellow man abutment and confidence. I pretended not seeing them,
and I passed, but decided to pack my antiques and forwarding to Mexico
as soon as possible, as he found me the opportunity to get rid of
the Administrator.

                I do not know how long after having been asleep, broke the silence
of the night such a scream of terror, which continues and will continue
ringing in my ears as I live.

The heard my wife and woke up scared, I heard the servants all, and in a few moments, cloisters
were populated by shadows, voices of fear inquired what was happening.

I took a flashlight and followed by the most resolute, I directed my steps towards the site
fearful whence the cry seemed to proceed. The vestry door was open
and I realized my suspicions were confirmed.

Entered. Or in the sacristy, or in the chapel had more light than the dim light shining through
windows and domes, and at first nothing could distinction, but little, the flickering light
of the lantern showed us that all objects silver, absolutely all, were huddled beneath the choir, fencing, imprisoning
in the corner, Don Guadalupe Robles, who, with his body leaning back,
and recoiling, extending both arms against the walls of that corner
of the chapel.

His eyes were their orbits, and all his face was an image of terror. I called him by name, looked
at me his answer was staring and laughing.

KING'S HAT TIBOTU

STORY FOR CHILDREN.

Julio Torres

The King of Tibotú had (naturally) three children. The elder was called Chapachapa, the second
Chopochopo, and less Chipichipi. The king was very rich, had seventeen umbrellas all colors,
a green cap and yellow-tail, very funny, and a top hat, so tall that bordered as monumental.
The queen, pundits, and was wearing blue socks polyglot: when something fell very much in favor, spoke
in Chinese, and when angry, screaming in Catalan.

The kingdom was composed, in addition to the populous city of Tibotú, two islands. Was harvested
in a lots of coffee and dairy cattle were numerous, in the other cocoa producing and had very good
bakers and confectioners. The islands were commonly known by 'La-isla-de-café au lait " and
"La-isla-de-chocolate-with-buns."

Tibotú royal family lived happily for many years, but one night the king ate at dinner, a whole roasted
piglet, and died a few hours, surrounded by his wife and children.

After nine minutes, nine seconds, according to the Ceremonial of that Court, wait before opening
the testament of the deceased monarch, was found last provision of the autocrat was that his
populous city of Tibotú happen to his beloved wife, and Islanders'
Café au lait 'and' Chocolate-to-buns "to his two sons, and Chopochopo
Chapachapa, respectively.

As Chipichipi, his father legábale hat.

Imagine the joy of the spouse and grown children, Benjamin and anger
of the house. What he wanted an old hat, dirty and so little artistic?

Prince
invaded the mind of such fury, that dropped to the ground and the
despised garment propinóle a strong kick. But in doing so, he felt
a sharp pain in the foot, as if struck against a stone. With still
greater fury, picked up his hat and started cutting it with great
courage, but, behold, he found, between the liner and the cup, something
hard, rock, indeed larger than a hen's egg, although not as much as
an ostrich, it was red as blood of a pigeon and the sun shone in a
surprising way. It was nothing less than a ruby.

I must not refer
to the feeling that this finding resulted in the entire world. Suffice
it to say that all the crowned heads, and many who were not, disputed
the possession of so magnificent gem. Most were interested in obtaining
the President of the English Republic, Grand Duke of Texcoco and Mr.
Elihu P Goggles, Paradise, Texas. Needless to say, this seems last
and was famous billionaire who bought the precious stone, paying for
it ten seven million dollars in gold, and seventeen in "Liberty Bonds"
in the seventeenth issue, and calling himself, thereafter, "The Ruby
King ', or' The King's Ruby."

Of course, Chipichipi invested their
money and gave great life. He bought a car "Ford", a police dog, and
a Dictionary of the Academy. Instead his brothers were ruined: coffee
was lost, and dairy cattle died, the cocoa price fell and bakers and
bakers went on strike perpetual.

And whenever they talked about the
top hat of her late husband, the Queen exclaimed pundits, Portuguese:

"In
all things, insignificant they may seem, there is some value for those
who can find it."
The brutal episode of the crowbar--the weapon which had felled me was found beside me, by the
way; a heavy bar used for opening packing-cases, which the thief had evidently picked up as
he came after me through Hunt and Carton's yard--should not be allowed to divert me from my
course. Diversion at this stage was what I could not and would not tolerate. I would go to
England just the same, and soon. I would put by a few pounds, and then work my passage home.
I was perfectly clear about it, and fell asleep now, quite content.

On the next day I began making inquiries. At first I thought I could manage it as a journalist,
by writing eloquent descriptions of the passage. A little talk at the shipping-office served
to disabuse my mind of this notion. Then I would go as a deck-hand. I was gently apprised of
the fact that my services as a deck-hand might not greatly commend themselves to the average
ship-master. My decision was not in the least affected by the little things I learned.

Finally, I secured a personal introduction to the manager of the shipping-office in which my
twenty pounds deposit was still held, and induced this gentleman to promise that he would,
sooner or later, secure for me a chance to work my passage home. He would advise me, he said,
when the chance arrived.

With this I was satisfied, and returned in a comparatively cheerful mood to my plodding. I
have a shrewd suspicion that my chief, Mr. Foster, used his good offices on my behalf with
the shipping company's manager.

Three months went slowly by. And then one morning a laconic note reached me from the shipping-office.

'Could you do a bit of clerking in a purser's office? If so, please see me to-day.'

It appeared that the assistant purser of one of the mail-boats had died while on the passage
between Melbourne and Sydney. The company preferred to fill such vacancies in England, and
so a temporary clerical assistant for the purser would be shipped. Would I care to undertake
it for a five-pound note and my passage?

Forty-eight hours later I had said good-bye to Sydney friends, and was installed at a desk
in the purser's office on board the Orimba. I had twenty-two pounds and ten shillings in my
trunk, and the promise of a five-pound note when the steamer should reach London. It was a
kind of outsetting upon my great adventure quite different from that which I had planned. But
it was an outsetting, and a better one than I had expected, for I had been prepared to work
my passage as a deck-hand or steward.

And so it fell out that when I did actually leave Australia I was too busy at my clerking,
and at inventing soporific answers to the mostly irrelevant inquiries of more or less distracted
passengers, to catch a glimpse of the land disappearing below the horizon--the land in which
I had spent the most formative years of my life--or to spare a thought for any such matter
as sea-sickness.

MANHOOD--ENGLAND: FIRST PERIOD

I

Of late years the printers have given us reams and reams of first impressions of such world
centres as London and New York. Not to mention the army of unknown globe-trotters and writers,
celebrities of every sort and kind have recorded their impressions. I always smile when my
eyes fall upon such writings; and, generally, I recall, momentarily at all events, some aspect
of my own arrival in England as purser's clerk on board the Orimba.

When I read, for example, the celebrity's first impressions of New York--a confused blend of
bouquets, automobiles, newspaper interviewers, incredibly high buildings, sumptuous luncheons,
barbaric lavishness, bad road surfaces, frenetic hospitality, wild expenditure of paper money--I
think it would be more interesting perhaps, certainly more instructive, to have the first impressions
of the immigrant, who lands with five pounds, and it may be a wife and a child or two. Then
there is the immigrant from the same end of the ship who is not allowed to land, who is rejected
by the guardians of this Paradise on earth, because he has an insufficient number of shillings,
or a weakness in his lungs. The bouquets, automobiles, sumptuous luncheons, and things do not,
one may apprehend, figure largely in the first impressions of these last uncelebrated people,
though their impressions may embrace quite as much of the reality concerned as do those of
the famous; and, it may be, a good deal more.

Broadly speaking, and as far as outlines go, I was in the position of one who sees England
for the first time. There were, I know, subtle differences; yet, broadly speaking, that was
my position. The native-born Australian, approaching the land of his fathers for the first
time, comes to it with a mass of cherished lore and associations at least equal in weight and
effect to my childhood's knowledge and experience of England. He very often comes also to relatives.
I came, not only having no claim upon any single creature in these islands, but having no faintest
knowledge of any one among them. I carried two letters of introduction: one from Mr. Foster
to a London newspaper editor whom he knew only by correspondence, and the other from Mr. Rawlence
to a painter, who just then (though I knew it not) was in Algiers.

The purser paid me my five pounds before I left the ship, wished me luck, and vowed, as his
habit was in saying good-bye to people, that he was very glad he had met me. And then I got
into the train with my luggage, and set out for Fenchurch Street and the conquest of London.

The passengers had all disappeared long since. England swallows up shiploads of them almost
every hour without winking. My arrival differed in various ways from theirs. For instance,
I had had no leisure in which to think about it, to anticipate it, until I was actually seated
in the train, bound for Fenchurch Street. They had been arriving, in a sense, ever since we
left the Mediterranean; after a passage, by the way, resembling in every particular all other
passages from Australia to England in mail steamers.

To be precise, I think the first impression received by me was that the England I had come
to was a quite astonishingly dingy land. The people seemed to me to have a dingy pallor, like
the table-linen of the cheaper sort of lodging-house. They looked, not so much ill as unwashed,
not so much poor as cross, hipped, tired, worried, and annoyed about something. They wore their
hats at an angle then unfamiliar to me, with a forward rake. They must laugh or, at any rate,
smile sometimes, I thought. This is where Punch comes from. It is the land of Dickens. It is,
in short, Merry England. But, as I regarded the dingy, set faces from the railway's carriage
window, it seemed inconceivable that their owners ever could have laughed, or screwed up the
skin around their eyes to look out happily under sunny blue skies upon bright and cheery scenes.

Since then I have again and again encountered the most indomitable cheerfulness in Londoners,
in circumstances which would drive any Australian to tears, or blasphemy, or suicide, or to
all three. And I know now that many Londoners wash as frequently as Australians, or nearly
so. But my first impression of the appearance of those I saw was an impression of sour, cross,
unwashed sadness. And, being an impressionable person, I immediately found an explanatory theory.
The essential difference between these folk and people following similarly humble avocations
in Sydney, I thought, is that these people, even those of them who, personally, were never
acquainted with hunger, live in the shadow of actual want; even of actual starvation. In Sydney
they do not. That accounts for the don't-care-a-damn light-heartedness seen in Australian faces,
and for the dominance of care in these faces.

I still had everything to learn, and have since learned some of it. And I do not think now
that my theory was particularly incorrect. The mere physical fact that the working men in Sydney
take a bath every day as a matter of course, and that in London they do not all take one every
week, trifling as it may seem, is itself accountable for something. But the ever-present knowledge
that starvation is a real factor in life, not in Asia, but in the house next door but one,
if not in one's own house--that is a great moulder of facial expression. It plays no part whatever
in the life of the country from which I had come.

As my train drew to within half a dozen miles of its destination, I became vaguely conscious
of the real inner London as distinguished from its extraordinary dockland and water approaches.
We passed a huge and grimy dwelling-house, overlooking the railway, a 'model' dwelling-house;
and in passing I caught sight of an incredible legend, graven in stone on the side of this
building, intimating that here were the homes of more than one thousand families. That rather
took my breath away.

Then we dived into a tunnel, and emerged a few seconds later, screeching hoarsely, right in
London. It hit me below the belt. I experienced what they call a 'sinking' feeling in the pit
of my stomach. I thought what a fool I was, how puny and insignificant; and, again, what a
fool I must be, to come blundering along here into the maw of this vast beast, this London--I
and my miserable five-and-twenty pounds! For one wild moment the panic-born thought of hurrying
back to my purser and begging re-engagement for the outward trip to Australia scuttled across
my mind. And then the train jolted to a standstill, and, with a faint kind of nausea in my
throat, I stepped out into London.

I have to admit that it was not at all a glorious or inspiriting home-coming. It was as different
from the home-coming of my dreams (when a minor capitalist) as anything well could be. But
yet this was indubitably London, my destination; the objective of all my efforts for a long
time past. A uniformed boot-black gave me a sudden thought of St. Peter's Orphanage--the connection,
if any existed, must have been rather subtle--and that somehow stiffened my spine a little.
Here I was, after all, the utterly friendless Orphanage lad who, a dozen thousand miles away,
had willed that he should go out into the world, do certain kinds of things, meet certain kinds
of people, and journey all across the world to his native England. Well, without much assistance,
I had accomplished these things, and was actually there, in London. There was tingling romance
in the thought of it, after all. No drizzling rain could alter that. Having successfully adventured
so far, surely I was not to be daunted by dingy faces, bricks, and mortar, and houses said
to accommodate a thousand families!

And so, with tolerably authoritative words to a porter about luggage, I squared my shoulders
in response to life's undeniable appeal to the adventurous.

II

When I had been a dozen years or more in London, a man I knew bewailed to me one night the
fact that he had to leave Fenchurch Street Station in the small hours of the next morning,
and did not know how on earth he would manage it.

'Why not sleep there to-night?' I suggested carelessly.

'Sleep there!' he repeated with a stare. 'But there are no hotels in that part of the world.'

'Oh, bless you, yes!' said I. 'You try the Blue Boar. You will find it almost as handy as sleeping
in the booking-office, without nearly so strong a smell of kippers and dirt.'

I do not think my friend ventured upon the Blue Boar; but I did, a dozen years earlier, and
stayed there for two nights. I wonder if any other new arrival from Australia has done that!
Hardly, I think. And yet there is something to be said for it. It was quite inexpensive, as
London hotels go. (They are all much more expensive than Australian hotels, though the cost
of living in England is appreciably lower than it is in the Antipodes.) And putting up there
obviates the embarrassing necessity of taking a cab from the station, when you cannot think
of a place to which you can tell the man to drive.

I cherish the thought that I have become something of a tradition at the Blue Boar, where I
have reason to think I am probably remembered to-day by a now aged Boots and others--many,
many others--as 'The genelmun as orduder bawth.'

On rising after my first insomnious night there, I went prowling all about the house in search
of the bathroom. Finally, I was routed back to my room by a newly-wakened maid (in curl-pins),
who told me rather crossly that I could not have a 'bawth' unless I ordered it 'before'and.'
She did not say how long beforehand. But I was in a hurry to get out of doors, so I did without
my bath, and promised myself I would see to it later in the day.

That afternoon, footsore, tired, and feeling inexpressibly grimy, I interviewed the lady again,
and begged permission to have a bath. She was then in a much brighter humour, and in curls
in place of pins. She promised to arrange the matter shortly, and send some accredited representative
to warn me when the psychological moment arrived. Where could I be found?

'Oh, I'll go and undress at once,' I said.

'No, don't do that, sir; I cawn't get a bawth all in a minute,' she told me. 'Perhaps you'd
like to wite in the smokin'-room.'

Grateful for the absence of the morning's crossness I agreed at once, and retired to the fly-blown
smoking-room, where there was ample choice of distraction for a writing man between a moth-eaten
volume called King's Concordance and a South-Eastern Railway time-table cover, very solidly
fashioned, with lots of crimson and gold, but no inside. Here I smoked half a pipe, and would
have rested, but that I felt too dirty. Presently Boots came in, elderly and sad but furtively
bird-like, both in the way he held his head on one side and in the jerky quickness of his movements:

'You the genelmun as orduder bawth?' he asked anxiously. I admitted it, and he gave a long
sigh of relief.

'Oo! All right,' he said, almost gladly. 'I'll letcher know when it's ready.'

And he hopped out. I finished my pipe, yawned, opened the Concordance, and shut it again hastily,
by reason of the extraordinarily pungent mustiness its pages emitted. Then I went prospecting
into the passage between the stairs and the private bar. Here I passed a sort of ticket-office
window, at which a middle-aged Hebrew lady sat, eating winkles from a plate with the aid of
a hairpin. Her face lit up with sudden interest as she saw me:

'Oo!' she cried with spirit, 'er you the genelmun has orduder bawth?' Again I pleaded guilty,
and with a broad, reassuring smile, as of one who should say: 'Bless you, we've had visitors
just as mad as you before this, and never attempted to lasso or otherwise constrain them. There's
no limit to our indulgence toward gentlemen afflicted as you are,' she nodded her ringleted
head, and said: 'Right you are, sir. I'll send Boots to letcher know when it's ready.'

Apart from consideration of her occupation, which seemed to me to demand privacy, I could not
stand gazing at this lady, though I was momentarily inclined to ask if the Lord Mayor and his
Aldermen had been invited to attend my bathing; so I passed on to the only refuge from the
Concordance room--the private bar. There was a really splendid young lady in attendance here,
who smiled upon me so sweetly that I felt constrained to order something to drink. Also, I
was greatly athirst. But the trouble was it happened I had never tasted beer, and could think
of nothing else suitable that was likely to be available. While I pondered, one hand on the
counter, the still smiling barmaid opened conversation brightly:

'Er you the genelmun what's orduder bawth?' she asked engagingly.

I began to feel that there must be some kind of a special London joke about this formula. Perhaps
it is a phrase in the current comic opera, I thought. A pity that ignorance should prevent
my capping it! At all events I was saved for the moment from choosing a drink, for three hilarious
city gentlemen entered from the street just then, and demanded instant attention. As I hung
indeterminately, waiting, I heard a voice in the passage outside, and recognised it as belonging
to that elderly bird, the Boots.

'No, I ain't awastin' uv me time,' it said. 'I'm alookin' fer somebody. I serpose you ain't
seed the genelmun as orduder bawth anywhere abart, 'ave yer?'

Fearful lest further delay should lead to the bricking up of the bathroom, or to a crier being
sent round the town for 'the genelmun,' etc., I hastened out almost into the arms of the retainer,
and forcibly checked him, as he began on an interrogative note to cheep out: 'You the genelmun
as orduder----'

Coming from a country where, even in the poorest workman's house, the bathroom at all events
is always in commission, I was greatly struck by this incident; more especially when, an hour
later, I heard the chambermaid cry out over the banisters:

'Mibel! The genelmun as orduder bawth sez 'e'll 'ave a chop wiv 'is tea!'

III

It was at the beginning of the second day at the Blue Boar that I counted over my money, and
was rather startled to discover that expenditure in pennies can mount up quite rapidly.

In those days pennies were comparatively infrequent, almost negligible, in Australia; the threepenny-bit
representing for most purposes the lowest price asked for anything. (It still is a coin more
generally used in Australia than anywhere else, I think.) Now, during my first day or so in
London I was so struck by the number of things one could do and get for a penny, that it seemed
I was really spending hardly anything. I covered enormous distances on the tops of omnibuses,
and talked a great deal with their purple-faced drivers, most of whom wore tall hats, and carried
nosegays in their coats. When beggars and crossing-sweepers asked, I gave, unhesitatingly,
in the Australian fashion, as one gives matches when asked for them. I gave only pennies; and
now was startled to find what a comparatively large sum can be disbursed in a day or so, in
single pennies, upon 'bus fares, newspapers, charity, and the like.

The two men to whom my only letters of introduction were addressed were both out of town: one
in Algiers, the other, I gathered, on the Riviera. I suppose most people in London have never
reflected on the oddity of the position of that person in their midst who does not know one
solitary soul in the entire vast city. And yet, there must always be hundreds in that position.
There was a time when I had serious thoughts of asking a policeman to recommend to me the cheapest
quarter in which one might obtain a lodging, for I had already conceived a great admiration
for the uniformed wardens of London's streets.

I studied the newspaper advertisements under the heading 'Apartments.' But some instinct told
me these did not refer to London's cheapest lodgings, and I felt a most urgent need for economy
in the handling of my small hoard. These few pounds must support me, I thought, until I could
cut out a niche for myself, here where there seemed hardly room for the feet of the existing
inhabitants. Already in quite a vague way I had become conscious of the shadow of that dread
presence whose existence colours the outlook of millions in England. I wonder if the consciousness
had begun to affect my expression!

My choice of a locality was made eventually upon ridiculously inadequate grounds. In a newspaper
article dealing with charitable work, I came upon some such words as these: 'Life is supported
upon an astoundingly small outlay of money among the poor householders, and even poorer lodgers,
in these streets opening out of the Seven Sisters Road in the district lying between Stoke
Newington and South Tottenham. Here are families whose weekly rental is far less than many
a man spends on his solitary dinner in club or restaurant,' etc.

'This appears to be the sort of place for me,' I told myself. Remembering certain green omnibuses
that bore the name of Stoke Newington, I descended from one of them an hour later outside a
hostelry called the Weavers' Arms. (Transatlantic slang has dubbed these places 'gin-mills';
a telling name, I think.)

One of my difficulties was that I had no clear idea what amount would be considered cheap in
London, by way of rent for a single room. The one thing clear in my mind was that I must, if
possible, find the cheapest. I had already gathered from chance talk, on board the Orimba and
elsewhere, that the Australian 'board and lodging' system was not much used in London, save
in strata which would be above my means. The cheaper way, I gathered, was to pay so much for
a room and 'attendance,' which should include the preparation of one's own food. The cheapest
method of all, I had heard, and the method I meant to adopt, was to rent a furnished room,
but without 'attendance,' and to provide meals for myself in the room or outside.

By this time the thing most desirable in my eyes was the possession of a room of my own. I
wanted badly to be able to shut myself in with my luggage; to secure privacy, and be able to
think, without the distracting consciousness of my small capital melting away from me at an
unnecessary and alarmingly rapid pace. Anything equivalent to the comparative refinement, quietness,
cleanliness, and spacious outlook of my North Shore quarters was evidently quite out of the
question; and would have been, as a matter of fact, even at double their cost in Sydney.

Late that afternoon a cab conveyed me with my baggage to No. 27 Mellor Street, a small thoroughfare
leading out of the Seven Sisters Road. Here I had secured a barely furnished top-floor room,
with a tiny oil-stove in it, for 4s. 6d. per week. I paid a week's rent in advance, and, having
deposited my bags there, I sallied forth into the Seven Sisters Road, with the room key in
my pocket, to make domestic purchases. Billy cans were not available, but I bought a tin kettle
for my oil-stove, some tea, a very little simple crockery and cutlery, some wholemeal brown
bread (which I had heard was the most nutritious variety), butter, and cheese. Also some lamp
oil, for the simple furniture of my room included, in addition to its oil-stove, a blue china
lamp with pink and silver flowers upon its sides. Most of these things I ordered in one shop,
and then, carrying one or two other purchases, hurried back to my room to be ready for the
shop-boy who was to deliver the remainder.

Over the little meal that I presently prepared, with the aid of the oil-stove, my spirits,
which had fallen steadily during the hunt for a room, brightened considerably. Pipe in mouth
I made some alterations in the disposition of my furniture, placing the little table nearer
to the window, and shifting the bed to give me a glimpse of sky when I should be occupying
it. The oil-stove made a regrettable stench I found, and the lamp appeared to suffer from some
nervous affection which made its flame jump spasmodically at intervals. The mattress on my
bed was extraordinarily diversified in contour by little mountain ranges, kopjes which could
not be induced to amalgamate with its general plan. Also, I was not so much alone in my sanctum
as I had hoped to be. There were other forms of life, whose company I do not think I ever entirely
evaded during my whole period as a lodger of the poorest grade in London.

But for the time these trifles did not greatly trouble me. Drunken brawls which occurred later
in the evening, immediately under my window, were a nuisance. But it was all new; my health
of mind and body was sound and unstrained; and I presently went to bed rather well pleased
with myself, after an hour spent in considering and adding to sundry notes I had accumulated,
for articles and sketches presently to be written.

My hope was to be able to win a place in London journalism without having any sort of an appointment.
The very phrase 'free-lance' appealed to my sense of the romantic. 'All the clever fellows
are free-lances, you know, in the Old Country.' I recalled many such statements made to me
in Sydney. Prudence might have led me to offer myself for a post of some kind, if the editor
to whom my letter of introduction was addressed had been visible. But he was not in London;
and, in my heart, I was rather glad. It should be as a free agent, an unknown adventurer in
Grub Street, that I would win my journalistic and literary spurs in the Old World. Other men
had succeeded....

Musing in this hopeful vein I fell asleep, with never a hint of a presentiment of what did
actually lie before me. I suppose the chiefest boon that mortals enjoy is just that negative
blessing: their total inability to see even so far into the future as to-morrow morning.

IV

The compilation of anything like a detailed record of my first two years in London would be
a task to alarm a Zola. I could not possibly face it; and, if I did, no good end could be served
by such a harrowing of my own feelings.

Such a compilation would be a veritable monument of squalid details; of details infinitely
mean and small, and, for the most part, infinitely, unredeemedly ugly. Heaven knows I have
no need to remind myself by the act of writing of all those dismal details. Mere poverty, starvation
itself, even, may be lightsome things, by comparison with the fetid misery which surrounded
me during the major part of those two years.

People say, with a smile or a sigh, as their mood dictates, that one half the world does not
know how the other half lives. So far is that truism from comprehending the tragic reality
of what poverty in London means, that I have no hesitation in saying this: there is no wider
divergence between the lives of tigers and the lives of men than lies between the lives of
English people, whose homes in some quarters I could name are separated by no more than the
width of a street, a mews, and, it may be, a walled strip of blackened grass and tree-trunks.

It is not simply that some well-to-do people are ignorant regarding details of the lives of
the poor. It is that not a single one among the cultivated and comfortably off people, with
whom I came to mix later on, had any conception at all regarding the nature and character of
the sort of life I saw all round me during my first two years in London. 

Ramiro, lying mouth in bed, had not taken a moment the eyes of his beloved, and see it that way
regrettable hesitation, rushed to support it. But I had slept Aixa itself on the slabs, gritting
his teeth and letting out a shaky moan, as if shivering. Her big hair, interspersed with petals
and jewels, now poured on the ground. Bliss light began to bathe his face. His pallor surpassed
the sapwood of the world, orange blossom, lilies, snow. Ramiro recalled the description of
the ecstasies of Mother Teresa of Jesus and other wonderful servants of the Lord, and also remembered
his mother, when, after long prayer in the oratory, suddenly collapsed, sweet as a death wound.
It was the same pale pathetic, the same trembling of lips, the same stretch of the eyelids
on the eyes clearly intoxicated. No, could not be a jorguina. He had spoken the language of the
mystics and without filters, spells, no ointments, the mere contemplation, just go back to the
higher regions of ecstasy.

He called several times: - Aixa! Aixa! Aixa! - Palpating the arms, cheeks, throat, breasts, but she
fell silent, cadaverous and icy on the marble. She wanted to warm the his mouth, and perverse
prey himself from temptation, covered it with passionate caresses.

Never found a strange and sweet.

It was the candy laced with snow, and his encouragement: ideal and
disturbing, like the flowers of death.

XVI

Aixa Ramiro always came up with the same secret for the first time. All are reproduced: the tour,
the band, the whistle ... But one day, realizing what he cared to know Along the way, drew his dagger,
pierced her leather chair and looked. His surprise was great to see that the drivers did not
give it twists and turns in the same backyard. The tank, the pomegranate, a cage suspended
from a pillar, and the same old, sitting in the shade, on a jar,
passed and repassed before the gap, indefinitely.

There was, therefore, such a journey through the Moors. Moreover, almost all the days that
followed, presented itself in the courtyard of the beautiful Moorish dagger, and after talking
for an instant the old woman set off back in the rooms.

Another incident came to worry. One afternoon, to get home earlier mysterious than usual, shocked,
standing in the alley, the sexton of the cathedral.

The Portuguese spun on his heel and began walking toward the east.

- Segura am - Ramiro said the old woman - that this dog vase agora-teamed with Gonzalo, expect
to that part - he said, pointing in the direction of St. Thomas: - One link I want to build, Sir Knight.

Aixa
finally revealed a more hidden way to reach it.

To enter making an the block adjoining room from the bathroom, lifted the end of a tapestry hanging
from the wall and a Opening the box showed the wide expanse and deep shimmering meadows and
mountains. This opening had been dug in the same escarpment. From below, it was impossible
to discover; two large boulders hid it. However, access was not difficult.

City down to the valley and describing long detour, now that Ramiro came window scaling which exalted
his chivalric fantasy. Aixa was waiting in vain holding out his arms to help raise. But not all
the hours spent on colorful pillows arrived in the afternoon, the Moorish led him to an outdoor
terrace advancing around noon.

It was a place of contemplation and prayer. The songs were about red high parapet above which dominated
the landscape view of valley and mountains. The bowl sent the sky offering a continuous slender beautiful
perfume. A single cypress, tired old man stood in that place, his dark desire, and in the center,
a reflecting pool, with calm hypnotic, the sadness of the tree, thread incense, clouds, constellations,
and Sometimes, too: the moon, so precise, so clear, Aixa, removing
hair from her trap round gems, sacred gesture hundíala with water,
and then, as if he believed had seized curve that the slightest touch
headset that popped into infinite pieces, we had network to the mouth
and moaned in a passionate, trembling, incomprehensible, while their
soaked rings glowed in the dark.

They were still one afternoon looking out on the rocks, and watching in silence, hands confused,
fascinating serenity of the mountains at dusk, when Ramiro, the sudden
return head, found himself with the Moorish mysterious figure, motionless
and silent in the midst of terrace.

Aixa, to fade away the surprise of the boy, were presented with a
long smile.

A moment after sitting on a carpet, talked quietly. The Moorish, in pure-blooded Castilian,
informose of the principal lords of the city, their pedigrees, their
relationships.

Meanwhile, listening to the conversation Aixa throbbing with joy, and his eyes went from one
another face as if we compare the features.

The sun went into hiding. Vague perfume of marjoram and lavender rose
from the ravine.

Was a hot afternoon and quiet.

The sky, the valley, the village, everything is painted in purple diluted. The same cypress embermejaba
westward black foliage. Ramiro experienced as never religiosity that time that the towers are
clad in gold and scarlet for sing the angelic salutation, and thought it was perhaps between
two people of a different faith to yours, including two false converts. "Hail Mary would pray with
him?

He and they were silent.

Suddenly, as the thirsty pilgrim caravan hear an uproar over the horizon,
the Moorish leaned his whole body sideways, and touching his ears,
sharpened their attention.

Ramiro believed then distinguish a voice like distant, a stealthy,
sad song.

It was undoubtedly the voice of the muezzin, summoning idzan outside,
in a neighbor's roof.

Aixa and Moorish rose and, in the middle of the mat, with his face
to the nascent priestly hieratic, made the four prostrations of azaleas
in the afternoon.

When they were finished, asomáronse each other about the rocks, and, clasping his arms, staring
at the same point on the horizon, they sang the following prayer,
with that peculiar accent reciting famous words whose echoes are always
awake in memory.

She said:

"The holy love and insomnia as a rope tied to torment me."

He replied:

"My heart is grieved by the absence. The looming dawn moans, groans when the sun touches the west. "

And
they kept alternating:

"If the wind blows from the region fragrant smell of musk all land
and revilca in my heart the desire to visitalla.

"

"Oh, you who drive their camels to the place of the beloved, when you reach the grave of Tehama
natural, the most excellent of men, high, love, greet him in the
my part, because he knows the remedy for my sufrencia, and when you
admire the radiance of the earth Neches, make this the recollection
of my passion, as there is for my other quibla that the tomb of the
prophet.

"

On hearing these words, in a moment like this, the youth felt a horrible blasphemy had been
thrown into the face of the Lord, and a superhuman accent, which
the voice of an archangel he shouted in his duty to conscience the
Church of Christ and to the memory of their elders.

Aixa continued:

"Then they went at dawn the messengers to the orchards of Mecca and Medina, and I have left
hostage. Marched on the camels. Kebir leads the singing and my heart goes with those for the love
of Hechaz land.

My heart belongs to the caravan. The dust will of camels. "

He replied:

"Nothing is capable of extinguishing the fire of my passion as Zemzem water. Blessed are the
baby!

Me the greeting for people who spins around the station and Hatim
Abraham and the temple of Cava.

"

There was silence and when it finishes a ritual. Ramiro felt impulse to get up and spit in the
face of the man.

The Moorish crossed his arms, and Aixa recostose as a daughter on his chest.

At that moment a metallic vibration came from the city.

Then the bell rang Santiago at close range. Other, more distant, responded. The cathedral bells
dropped their low and solemn, and then, all the churches at a time,
in hallucinatory concert, played sentences.

Ramirez fell to his knees, as if a dart come from above had pierced him suddenly and flowed from
his chest Aves bulldozers and warm. Her eyes were a frightening closed blackness on which images
parading flaming purgatory. Humbled, emptied, fell under the remorse, constantly apologizing for
something hateful, something huge, abhorrent, it was now for the first time in its weight,
in all its horror, on its own conscience.

Aixa and the Moor, clinging tightly, without speaking, they kept their eyes of the boy.

The city extended the wailing and the singing of his bronzes in the merciful dark.

XVII

Two days later, Don Alonso Serrano Blázquez, going to visit Monsieur de la Hoz, ran into with Ramiro
on the stairs. The boy declined to accompany him.

When they reached the courtyard, Alonso, leaning on a column, as if
searching for hidden of the footmen, told him bluntly that some people
began to murmur to his frequent visits to the neighborhood of Santiago.

Ramiro apology gave his wandering curiosity and desire investigate
those suspected customs of the converts.

- Well answered - said Don
Alonso - if I were a cheeky unofficial and not friend faithful in
your house, that I ever watched as a child.

A pause underlined the intention of that phrase.

- Run on your worship
- he added, trying to mitigate with a smile the hardness of the words
- the strangest species.

       Spewed about you who are in league with the Moors for transmitilles
everything about them is resolved, others that you have purchased
with present awareness and money, and not missing, in short, who will
ensure that you have made a covenant with the Devil through an old
witch of the suburb.

Needless to say, so I think I in these tales as in the fables of monsters and giants, but if
I have to speak fully, I find that the simple curiosity enough to explain your daily walks
on the Moors.

The young man contracted his lip with an angry gesture, and suddenly blood encendiole face.
What to do? Lowering his head went forward, back and forth in front of the gentleman and then,
trembling with pride, revealed the secret commission he had received
on behalf of His Majesty.

- Ah!

Too well as I can - added - where they can bring these treacherous slander and what I shall
sink chest when determining avenging sword.

Don Alonso squeezed into his hands the young man's trembling hand, and looking in a profound
way, eyes bright with emotion, said:

- I never doubted the honor of someone who takes a blood as qualified
and as clean as yours; but huélgame declare that the words that I
hear you just removed from an incomprehensible soul grief.

Hey, give me those arms!

Ceremoniously shook.

Climbing the sedan chair Don Alonso, and ran to his home, determined to promote partnership his
daughter Beatriz with the young man whose face had thought haughty horoscope reading of the great
honors.

* * * * *

The scene on the terrace and the recent speech of the father of Beatriz
Ramirez ripped to love spell I was living.

Raw seemed written clearly now the windings hypocritical conduct, the total neglect of duty,
false confessions at the foot of minister of God. All for a woman of another race whose religious
law had not wanted to investigate too much for the cry of conscience does not come to disturb their
lust. What did again? What hint had been surprised after visiting the house daily, whose walls
bore, perhaps, the secret of the conspiracy?

His will is enhestó. He was willing to make amends to God through any heroism and hard it was.
He had found religion in a long book examples of great sinners abominable that redeemed his life
with a moment of deep repentance. It desceparía breast that love of the Saracen and play your
life in a coup unprecedented audacity. Then, when people bow before him and no one dared question
his honor, it would have revenge when Gonzalo de San Vicente, it
could only be he who helped Ringer, spread by the city's evil inventions
that he had referred the gentleman.

He returned several times to the Moors and mysterious house. And the body of the Saracens let him in
the sense imaginary smell of ointment witch and sniff. With what began as great enjoyment experiencing
the first stirrings of detachment. Rabid fruition of torture now
mixed all his touch.

There were moments when pondered how best to eliminate forever that too beautiful female, whose
fascination could resurface later in his way. Imagined, back in the depths of his conscience, take
some hidden poison, or it perish without any weapons that spans the throat, and, well, killed by his
own hands, with the only testimony of God, submerge in water, with all boats of odor and stain,
for the stack would serve as a grave evil. But I had heard that some women charged the death
of unforgettable beauty.

Then realized the virtue of holy fire, destruction unsurpassed fire, which left but a black
heap, repellent.

She, however, I received ever more passionate, more eager, more sick with longing, as if all
your soul sensed the distance and wanted to the object of his love, with tension of a beautiful
glass hand drain. And did not speak with that accent superior and happy. His clear smile darkened,
filled with fear, like a living water at dusk. Sobs desolate, desperate, the stifled now,
every moment, and those acid drops that ran up his lip, the smell of tears and anguish hastened
his loss. To feel in their will as a tapestry that can develop or develop, foot, depending on
whim, Ramiro found himself again master of himself, and his own victorious gesture woke up in his
mind instincts of cruelty.

Beat and squeezed his love more than once to pluck the secret of the conspiracy. It seemed that
was on the right to torment the woman who had tried to plunge into apostasy and perjury.

The idea of ​​the devil hidden in the body of this fascinating cruzábale by the mind, and he
felt proud to have fought with such an enemy, like Jacob in the darkness,
and now his Once, I took those white hands of Delilah, those hands
of treachery and deceit, and demanding revealing word, squeezed each
other's fingers on the hard rings, while her with tearful eyes, looked
upward, without uttering a groan.

Ramiro hurried moments, peering at each visit every nook and cranny, to Ensenada the other rooms,
felt the walls secretly hoping to discover some secret spring. She, however, did nothing but
ask, incessantly, to flee together in Castile. It was the same old story monotonous, only pray desperately.
Near Granada, on Genil, he would say, had a house as her body all white with a red little door for
him, only for him, and laughed servile laughter, lewd, and near tears.

Once, to accompany him to the window, Gulina, the old Moorish, told a genia, out of the water of
the pool, had revealed what was in it.

- It's a secret - he added - that you yourself asconde.

Nombrole Beatrice and said the details of his disappointment and feelings indiscernible moving in
his heart. The painful memory, he thought forever buried, appeared now referred to by the woman,
stretched, shaken before their eyes, what exciting clothing other
times. Hissing, then, mysterious words, the old woman pulled out of
the drawer furniture painting a figurine. The head, no features, all
bristling mane was hispid thick. The waist was tight, bombastic skirt,
two long cores from pierced throat apart. Ramiro knew too well what
that meant, and trembled for the maid, to the awesome appeal of witchcraft.

That
afternoon, walking with Canon by the square of the cathedral, he rehearsed
Ramiro for the first time, its entry into the house of the Moors and
the beginning of his affair with Aixa as if everything just happened.
Canon, crunching the gravel under the slab the sole of the shoe, we
listened carefully, pressing with both hands the Book of Hours against
his chest. At last, he replied:

- Your own speech, my son, do me
think that ye are in grave danger of bewitchment. The female has to
be some famous jorguina, using filters of evil, whose power can only
resist the occasional hard body in penance. No wonder that have just
referred about his great physical beauty, as the devil puts in their
features more crafty bait of temptation and he himself often stay
in their persons, as evidenced continuously. Urge, Ramiro, untie that
knot in a single blow, as the ancients tell us King Alexander. For
the layout and openly of that house, I have for me that has to be
site of clandestine meetings, and I think now that if it llegárades
to introduce you to About ten o'clock at night, when no one is waiting,
I would be surprised, for fixed, hands on the cake. A parish of Santiago.
He will have to assist in the company. Ah, if I had I take your youth
or not, at least, these habits serious!

Ramiro soon remembered the
window of the escarpment. Was done. Said goodbye Canon promising that
same night tempt surprise.

Vargas Orozco stood still for a moment
with his chin in the book and the eyes on the ground. His black figure
lent a funereal church the lonely square, where the evening seemed
gloomy sift powder rust. First, it weakens and humiliates the pupil; and then, at every turn, it beats
him, teaching him to walk with cowering shoulders, furtive eyes, a sour and suspicious mind.
I have no good word to say for poverty; and I believe an insufficient dietary to be infernally
bad for any one--worse, upon the whole, than an over-abundant one--and especially so for young
men or women who are striving to produce original work.

I have heard veterans criticise their sleek juniors, with a round assertion that if these youngsters
had had to fight their way on a crust, as the veteran said he did, they would be vastly better
men for it. I do not believe it. Hard work, and even disappointment and loss, are doubtless
rich in educational and disciplinary values; but not that wolfish, soul-crushing fight for
insufficient food, not mere poverty. I have tried them, and I know.

Every day a procession of more or less battered veterans in life's fight straggles across the
floors of the police courts, from waiting-room to dock and dock to cells. 'How extraordinarily
vicious the poor are!' says some shallow observer. In reality, a very large proportion of these
battered ones are there as drinkers. And, in any case, the whole of them put together (including
the many who require not penal but medical treatment), supposing they were all viciously criminal--all
violent thieves, say--what a tiny handful they represent of the poor of London!

The enormous majority of the poor never set foot in a police court. And yet, for one who knows
anything of the conditions in which they live, how marvellous that is! Most educated people,
after all, go through life, from cradle to grave, without once experiencing any really strong
temptation to break the law of the land. The very poor are hardly ever free from such temptation;
hardly ever free from it. I know. I, with all the advantages behind me of traditions, associations,
memories, hopes, knowledge, and tastes, to which most very poor people are strangers, I have
felt my fingers itch, my stomach crave woundily, as I passed along a mean street in which food-stuffs
were exposed outside shop windows; a practice which, upon a variety of counts, ought long since
to have been abolished by law.

Oh, the decency, the restraint, and the enduring law-abidingness of London's poor, in the face
of continuously flaunting plenty, of gross ostentation! It is the greatest miracle of our time.
The comparative absence of either religion or philosophy among them to-day makes the spectacle
of their docility, to me, far more remarkable than anything in the history of mediaeval martyrdom.
When I come to consider also the prodigiously irritant influences of modern life in its legislation,
journalism, amusements, swift locomotion, and, not least, its education for the masses, then
I see wireless telegraphy and such things as trifles, and the abiding self-restraint of the
very poor as our greatest marvel.

VI

After my second year in London I became approximately wealthy. Early in the third year, at
all events, I earned as much as five guineas in a single month, and ate meat almost every day;
in other words I began to earn pretty nearly one-third as much as I had earned some years previously
in Sydney. I now bought books, and no longer always, as before, at the cost of a meal or so.
Holywell Street was a great delight to me, and I never quite comprehended how Londoners could
bring themselves to let it go. I doubt if Fleet Street raised a single protest, and yet-- Well,
it was surprising.

I wrote rather less in this period, and used more method in my attacks upon the editors. I
even succeeded in actually interviewing one or two of them, including the gentleman to whom
I carried a note of introduction from a colleague he had never met. But I do not think I gained
anything by these interviews. I might possibly have done so had they come earlier, while yet
the freedom of easier days and of sunshine was in my veins. But my mean street period had affected
me materially. It had made me morbidly self-conscious, and suspiciously alive to the least
hint of patronage or brusqueness.

It is true I gave hours to the penetration of editorial sanctums; but in nearly every case
my one desire, when I reached them, was to escape from them quickly without humiliation. In
a busy man's very natural dislike of interruption, or anxious glance toward his clock, I saw
contempt for my obscurity and suspicion of my poverty. And, after all, I had nothing to say
to these gentlemen, save to beg them to read the effusions I pressed upon them; an appeal they
would far rather receive on half a sheet of notepaper. As to impressing my personality upon
them in any way, as I say, my uneasy thoughts in their presence were usually confined to the
problem of how best I might escape without actual discredit.

Once, I remember, in a very lean month, I chanced to see one of the Olympians passing with
god-like nonchalance into the restaurant of a well-known hotel. On the instant, and without
giving myself time for reflection, I followed him down the glittering vestibule, and into a
palatial dining-hall. The hour was something between one and two o'clock, and a minute before
I had been thoughtfully weighing the relative merits of an immediate allowance of sausages
and mashed potatoes for fivepence, or a couple of stale buns for one penny, to be followed
at nightfall by a real banquet--seven-pennyworth of honest beef and vegetables. Now, with a
trifle over four shillings in my pocket, I was, to outward seeming, carelessly scanning a menu,
in which no single dish, not even the soup, seemed to cost less than about three times the
price of one of my best dinners.

But at the next table sat a London editor. I was free to contemplate him. Was not that feast
enough for such as I? Evidently I thought it was, for I told the waiter with an elaborate assumption
of boredom that I did not feel like eating much, but would see what I could make of a little
of the soup St. Germain. I wondered often if the man noticed the remarkable manner in which
the crisp French rolls on that table disappeared, while I toyed languidly with my soup. I did
not dare to ask for more rolls when I had made an end of the four or five that were on the
table; but I could have eaten a dozen of them without much difficulty.

'No, thank you, I think I shall be better without anything to-day,' I said to the waiter who
drew my attention to a sumptuous volume which I had already discovered to be the wine-list.
There was a delicate suggestion in my tone (I hoped) that occasional abstinence from wine,
say, at luncheon had been found beneficial for my gout. Certainly, if he counted his rolls,
the man could hardly have suspected me of a diabetic tendency.

All this time I studied the profile of the editor, while he leisurely discussed, perhaps, half
a sovereign's worth of luncheon. I hoped--and again feared--he might presently recognise me;
but he only looked blandly through me once or twice to more important objects beyond. And just
as I had concluded that it was not humanly possible to spend any longer over one spoonful of
practically cold soup, he rose, gracefully disguised a yawn, and strolled away to an Elysian
hall in which, no doubt, liqueurs, coffee, and cigars of great price were dispensed. This was
not for me, of course.

They managed somehow to make my bill half a crown, and, as a trifling mark of my esteem, I
gave the waiter the price of two of my ordinary dinners, for himself. I badly wanted to give
him sixpence, but lacked the requisite moral courage, though I do not suppose he would have
wasted a thought upon it either way, and if he had--but, as I say, I gave him a shilling. After
all I do not suppose the poor fellow earned much more in a day than I earned in a week. And
then (still with prudent thought for my gouty tendency, no doubt) I loftily waved aside all
suggestions of coffee in the lounge, and made my way to the street, with the air of one who
found luncheon a rather annoying interruption in his management of great affairs.

'Now if you had as much enterprise and resourcefulness as--as a bandicoot,' I told myself,
passing down the Thames Embankment, 'you would have entered into conversation with A----, and
by this time he would be pressing you to write articles for him. Instead of that, you'll have
to content yourself with dry bread to-night and to-morrow, my friend.'

But I did not altogether regret that bread and soup luncheon, after all. It was an adventure
of sorts, and quite a streak of colour in its way, across the drab background of South Tottenham
days.

There were times when the spirit of revolt filled my very soul, and all life seemed black or
red in my eyes. But I do not recall any day of panic or suggested surrender. On one day of
revolt, when I told myself that this slum life in London was too horrible for a self-respecting
dingo, let alone a man, I buttoned up my coat and walked with angry haste all the way to Epping
Forest. In that noble breathing-place I raged to and fro under trees and through scrub, delighting
in the prickly caress of brambles, and pausing in breathless ecstasy to watch rabbits at play
in a dim, leafy glade. Fully twelve miles I must have walked, and then, healed and tamed, but
somewhat faint from unwonted exercise and wonted lack of good food, I sat down in a little
arbour and wolfishly devoured just as much as I could get in the form of a ninepenny tea. I
fear there can have been no margin of profit for the good woman who served me.

At that period my digestive faculties still were holding up miraculously, or my sufferings
on the homeward tramp would have been acute. As a fact I reached home in rare spirits, and
almost--so cheery was I--cancelled the notice I had given that morning of my intention to vacate
the current garret. But the smell of the house smiting my forest freshness as I stepped over
the boards, jammed in its threshold to keep crawling children in, saved me from that indiscretion.
There were fewer drunkards, less fighting, and not many more insects in that house than in
most of my places of residence; but the smell of it I shall never, never forget. In that respect
it was the vilest in a vile series of slum dwellings, and many and many a time had caused me
to revile my naturally keen olfactory organs. I had endured it for almost a month, and would
suffer its unmanning horrors no more. Indeed, I would suffer nothing like it again. Why should
I? My earnings were increasing. I would escape from the whole district, its miseries, its smells,
its infamies, and its thousand dehumanising degradations. I would emigrate.

Yes, that tramp in Epping Forest was quite epoch-making. It came after more than two years
of struggle in London. I had made fully five pounds in the past month. I had actually laid
aside a couple of sovereigns, and doubtless that salient fact emboldened me. Also, I had had
a number of quite meaty meals of late. But the wild stamping to and fro under trees, the sight
of the bonny, white-sterned rabbits at play, the copious tea in a pleached arbour, the clean
forest air--these I am sure had been as a fiery stimulant to my drooping manhood. I went to
bed full of the most reckless resolves, and astonishingly light-hearted.

In the morning, having feasted (as well as the prevailing smell permitted) upon an apple, brown
bread, and tea--butter was 'off' that day, I remember--I set forth upon a prospecting tour,
working westward from my north-easterly abode, through Holloway, Finsbury, the Camden Road,
and such places, into the neighbourhood of Regent's Park. The park, which was strange to me,
pleased me greatly; as did also certain minor streets in its neighbourhood, a mews which I
found quaint and quite rural in its suggestions, and sundry white houses with green shutters
which, for some reason, I remember I called 'discreet.' There was nothing here that looked
poor enough for me, but none the less I inquired at one or two of the smaller houses whose
windows held cards indicating that rooms were to let in them.

At length, in a quiet and decent thoroughfare called Howard Street, I happened upon Mrs. Pelly's
house--No. 37. The girl who answered my knock had a pleasant little face, and a soft, kindly
tone in speaking. I supposed she was not more than one-and-twenty, perhaps less. Her mother
was out, she said, but she would show me the only vacant room they had. Indeed--with a little
smile--she really did more for the lodgers than her mother did.

The room was at the back of the house on the first floor, and there was but one other floor
above it. It had a French window, with a tiny iron balcony, three feet by eighteen inches.
The furnishings were greatly superior to any I had had in London. There was actually a little
writing-table with drawers, and from the window one could see distinctly the waving green tops
of trees in the park. The rent was eleven shillings. Whereat I sighed heavily. But the writing-table,
and, above all, the actual view of tree-tops in the distance! I sighed again, and explained
regretfully that I feared my limit was eight shillings. Then the young woman sighed too, and
mentioned, with apparent irrelevance, that her mother might be in any moment now.

I had earned five pounds in the previous month. With reasonable care my food need not cost
more than seven to ten shillings a week. Of course I had managed on considerably less. I knew
very well that that sort of semi-starvation was in every way bad; but, when I thought of that
quiet back room, the distant tree-tops, the absence of smells, the fact that I had seen no
filthy or drunken people in the neighbourhood, the soft-spoken girl at my side--'By heavens!
It's worth it,' I said to myself.

And just then--we were in the narrow ground floor passage--the mother arrived, bringing with
her an unmistakable whiff of a public-house bar. This stiffened my relaxing prudence considerably.
I had no kindly feeling left for taverns, especially where women were concerned. But, by an
odd chance, it happened that Mrs. Pelly was not only in a talkative mood, but also in higher
spirits than I ever saw her afterwards. She insisted on reinspection of the room, a sufficiently
dangerous thing in itself for me. And then, standing beside its open window, with arms folded
over the place in which her waist once had been, she avowed that she thought the room would
suit me, and that I should suit the room.

'There's a writing-table in it, an' all, ye see,' she said, having received a hint as to my
working habits.

There was indeed. I was little likely to forget it. It now seemed the charge for the room was
eleven shillings weekly, without 'attendance.' But Mrs. Pelly had never been a woman to stick
out over trifles, that she hadn't; and, right or wrong, though she hoped she might never live
to rue the day, she would let the gentleman this room for nine shillings a week, and include
'attendance' in that merely nominal rate--'So there, Miss!' This, to her daughter Fanny, and
in apparent forgetfulness of my presence. There were skilled dancers ingenious
artists who made elegant furniture and other works of extreme delicacy, and the best then known chefs.
That was in the highest degree, the fifth elevation power, life wedding of Camacho. Solomon and
his wives and servants devoured every day thirty fattened oxen, a hundred sheep and lots of
deer, buffalo, gazelles and birds. And do not think it ate some bread. The daily consumption
of flour used in bread, cakes, Frolla buns and pasta or flora, was ninety choirs, or forty-five
cahíces, twelve bushels understood.

So Solomon's palace to the last click was given away without a hitch and was fat pike.

The women, both by nature as by the cosmetics they used, seemed heavenly of multifarious merits.
At that time there had names at random positions, but names its most egregious significant qualities,
where minds can only infer, they were worth. Then Dona Sol was not called an ugly, black or white
one, or a Dolores joyful, or Rosa who smelled bad or was rough as cocklebur thistle.

Solomon's favorite and had been wearing were named because they deserved it. Pharaoh's daughter,
who was, no doubt, Meneftá II, UOM-anhet called, that is, Smash-hearts. Solomon inspired her first love,
deep and soft. Solomon was very young when married her, and she brought a dowry to Gezer and
twelve thousand horses to the back of his cavalry. After Solomon loved madly Anahid, morning star, daughter
of the King of Armenia. Refers to, rejected it, had to return to their homeland, where he was a son
of Solomon, from whom Abagaro famous, whom Christ wrote a letter and sent his effigy. After Solomon
loved no less madness Leliti, Night, princess of Ethiopia. After passionately loved puffs,
who brought from India the first-Hebrew Tyrian ships were there. This whiff, Spring or say to yourself,
was the family of Saki Kapilavastu kings, and therefore illustrious relative of Sakyamuni, which
was to be the Buddha, and to found a religion that believed about half the human race.

Finally, all durable passion she had conceived, nurtured and kept
Solomon the Sulamita, whose praise left made the most beautiful love
poetry had sounded so far in human language.

But Solomon, in the midst of so many joys and triumphs, was disgusted.

Nothing satisfied him. Everything was for him vanity of vanities and vexation of spirit. Did
not even have the enjoyment of self-esteem and pride, because he maintained that his greatness
was due to chance and not his character or his understanding and wisdom. Solomon had reconsidered
and had seen that, under sun, and the race was to the swift, nor the war was strong, and welfare
of the smart, prudent or wealth, or the eloquent favor, but it was all capricious result of
blind luck.

And being found his soul in such a painful state, was when he introduced
Echeloría Adherbal.

It was about this time, I fancy, though only in my twenty-fourth or twenty-fifth year, that
I began seeking advice from chemists and their assistants, under whose guidance I tapped the
fascinating but deadly field of patent medicines. The fact was I had completely disorganised
my digestive system during two years and more of catering for myself upon an average outlay
of six or seven shillings weekly (sometimes much less, of course), whilst living an insanely
sedentary life in which the allowance of sleep, exercise, and fresh air had been as inadequate
as my dietary. A wise physician might possibly have been able to steer me into smooth waters
now, especially if he had driven me out of London. But the obstinate energy and conceit of
youth was still strong in my veins. I had no money to waste on doctors, I told myself. And
so I held desultory consultations across the counters of chemist's shops, and, supremely ignorant
as to causes, attacked symptoms with trustful energy, consuming great quantities of mostly
valueless and frequently harmful nostrums.

Another step I took at this time, after quaintly earnest discussion with Fanny, was to arrange
an additional payment of eight shillings a week to Mrs. Pelly, in return for the provision
of my very simple breakfast and a bread and cheese luncheon each day. This relieved me of a
task for which I had never had much patience, and very likely it was also an economy. My evening
meal I preferred, as a general thing, to obtain elsewhere. It was one of my few entertainments
this foraging after inexpensive dinners, and watching and listening to other diners. At that
time my prejudices were the exact antithesis of those that came later on, and I preferred foreign
restaurants and foreign service and cooking, quite apart from the fact that I found them nearly
always cheaper and more entertaining than the native varieties.

It was in a dingy little French eating-house near Wardour Street (where I must say the cooking
at that time really was skilful, though I dare say the material used was villainously bad,
since the prices charged were low, even judged by my scale in such matters) that I first made
the acquaintance of Sidney Heron. I felt sure that Heron must be a remarkable man, even before
I spoke to him, or heard him speak, for he lived with a monocle fixed in his right eye, and
never moved it, even when he blew his nose and gesticulated violently, as he so often did.
The monocle was attached to a broad black ribbon which, in some way, seemed grotesque as contrasted
with the dingy greyish-white flannel cricketing shirts which Heron always wore, with a red
tie under the collar. Linen in any guise he clearly scorned. I do not think his boots were
ever cleaned, and he appeared to spend even less upon clothing than I did. And I notice this a great virtue desto Incas because,
being masters as free and had no one to realize, and neither had any such powerful among them
who fetch it, and that something else did not understand the nights and days that lust to be
with their wives, and other hobbies - and never say or that none of them used the above sin,
before they hated those who used it, having them in just as vile to timid, as gloried in such
filth. And not just in their people did not find this sin, but even consented to be in their
houses or palaces no they knew who used it, and even without all this, I think I heard that if they
were know of anyone who had committed such a sin, punished [him] with such punishment, it was
noted and known to everyone.


Heron's apologies indicated far more of anger than contrition, I thought; but they led to conversation,
at all events, and as he lived in the Hampstead Road we walked a mile or more together after
leaving the restaurant. It was the beginning of companionship of a sort for me, and if we did
not ever become very close friends, at all events our intimacy endured without rupture for
many years.

At the outset I was given an inkling of the irascibility of his temper, and my subsequent method,
in all our intercourse, was simply to leave him whenever he became quarrelsome, and to take
up our relations when next we met at the point immediately preceding that at which temper had
overcome him. At heart an honourable and I am sure kindly man, Heron had a temper of remarkable
susceptibility to irritation. The stomachic causes which, as time went on, produced melancholy
and dense, black depression in me, probably accounted for his eruptions of violent irascibility.
And I fancy we were equally ignorant and brutal in our treatment of our own physical weaknesses.

Heron certainly became one of my distractions, one of my human interests outside work, at this
time. 

No answer. Fr Gil took the fan was on the bedside table and hurried get air. At the same time
screamed:

- Godmother! Godmother! Come!

Ms Eloisa and the maid rushed into the room. Tried in vain to revive the dying giving incorporate
air after opening the balcony, rubbing her feet with a brush doing everything that I suggested
at the time his imagination. It was the last attack of breathlessness.
Occasionally opened his mouth.

He moved his fingers shaking slightly. But its appearance is was quickly immobilized. The man
transmigrate to the statue, the soul is turned into stone.

He breathed three or four times the air and froze, motionless, eyes
and mouth parted.

Ms Eloisa embraced him sobbing and kissing his face covered corpse. The maid broke screaming
as if she was hitting. Gil's father dropped to his knees and began
to read quietly by his breviary.

After a while Ms Eloisa and the maid also knelt at the foot of the
bed and prayed.

But it, seeing a tear to hover between the lashes of his brother,
he rose quickly and caught it with his handkerchief.

Tear was shed that just died, tear Protest against power ominous
creature that has taken them from nothing without asking.

- Look,
father, how calm, how still breathes his sweet face! - Cried good
lady, watching her brother with eyes of pain and tenderness .-- It
is well known that has finally been reconciled with God!

The priest dropped the book on the bed and covered her face with her hands.

XII

Obdulia told his confessor that he was determined to leave the world and devote himself entirely
God in a convent. He could not give more pleasant news. Long ago that the preferences submission
and to the exaggerated idolatry that she was pleased devout restless Fr Gil. The latest extravagance
he had committed, and which he heard the secretary Bishop, put in a state of confusion and anger
that many days would not talk with it, let alone agreed to confess. The event had transpired and much
commented and laughed not a little too.

Of course he was mostly lost her, but reflecting also undermined the dignity of the priest. The girl
was embarrassed. Not presented in public or at home with their friends, and even tried to go
to church at times when no there were people. But I was even more distressed, with the attitude
of his confessor, who embarrassed. Perhaps because of this, and to win back his will, he went
to an evening news to the confessional the determination was made.

Do not hesitate to give their consent. So exalted devotion, a desire
to live as penance and sacrifice more of their degree would find the
walls of a convent in the middle of impurities of worldly life. In
fact, had always a little surprised that his penitent had no recollection
of the monastic life, as according to their inclinations. Then the
age reached, transposed and early youth, did not fear that their resolution
was the daughter of a fleeting desire, of a fleeting romantic exaltation,
as usually happens at girls of fifteen to twenty years. The girl looked pinched and
unhappy, and something moved me to make a suggestion I should hardly have ventured upon then,
if the mother had not happened to be present.

'You look tired, Fanny,' I said. 'Why not come out for a walk in the park with me? The air
would do you good, and perhaps you will have a bit of dinner somewhere with me before getting
back. Do! It would be quite a charity to a lonely man.'

I saw her tired brown eyes brighten at the thought, and then she turned timidly in Mrs. Pelly's
direction.

'Oh!' said I, on a rather happy inspiration, 'I believe you're one of the vain people who fancy
they are indispensable. I am sure Mrs. Pelly would be delighted for you to come; wouldn't you,
Mrs. Pelly? There will be no lodgers home till late this fine evening.'

Mrs. Pelly simpered at me, with a rather forbidding light in her eye, I thought. But I had
struck the right note in that word 'indispensable.'

'Oh, she's very welcome to go, for me, Mr. Freydon; and I'm sure it's very kind of you to ask
her. Girls nowadays don't do so much when they are at work but what it's easy enough to spare
'em. But, haven't you got a tongue, miss? Why don't you thank Mr. Freydon?'

'No, indeed,' I laughed. 'The thanks are coming from me. I'll just go back to my room and write
a letter, and you will let me know as soon as you're ready, won't you, Fanny?'

Well, I can honestly say that I thoroughly enjoyed that little outing. I thought there never
had been any one who was so easily pleased and entertained. Doubtless her worshipful attitude
flattered my youthful vanity. But, apart from this, it was a real delight to see the flush
of enjoyment come and go in her pale, pretty face, when we rode on the top of an omnibus, examined
flowers in the park, and sat down to a meal with the preparation and removal of which she was
to have no concern whatever. It was a pretty and touching sight, I say, to see how these very
simple pleasures delighted her. But I very soon learned that this experience must not be repeated.
Indeed, it was in this wise that I obtained my first inklings of the real wretchedness of Fanny's
life. She had to suffer constant humiliations for a week or more, as the price of the little
jaunt she had with me. Her mother found it hard to forget or forgive the fact that her daughter
had had an hour or two of freedom and enjoyment. Realisation of this made me detest the woman.

And then, it may have been three months after this little outing, there came another Sunday
incident that moved me. I returned to my room unexpectedly about six o'clock, having forgotten
to take out with me a certain paper. The house was very silent, and perhaps that made me walk
more softly than usual up the stairs. As I opened my door the warm, yellow light of the setting
sun was slanting across my writing-table, and in the chair before it sat Fanny, reading a magazine.

My first thought was of irritation. I did not like to see any one sitting at my writing-table.
I was touchy regarding that one spot--the table, my papers, and so forth. In the same instant
irritation gave place to some quite other feeling, as the sunlight showed me that tears were
rolling down Fanny's pale face.

She sprang to her feet in great confusion, murmuring almost passionate apologies in her habitually
soft, small voice.

'Oh, please forgive me, Mr. Freydon! I know it was a liberty. Please do forgive me. I will
never do it again. Please say you will overlook it, and--and not tell my mother.'

She unmistakably shrank, trembling, almost cowering before me, so that I was made to feel a
dreadful brute.

'My dear Fanny,' I said, touching her arm with my fingers, 'there's nothing to forgive. How
absurd! I hope you will always sit there whenever you like. As though I should mind! But what
were you reading?'

The question had no point for me, and was designed merely to relieve the tension.

'Oh, your story, Mr. Freydon. It's--it's too beautiful. That was what made me forget where
I was, and sit on here. I just glanced at it--like; and then--and I couldn't leave it. Oh!'

And she drew up her apron and dabbed her eyes. I don't believe the poor soul possessed a handkerchief.
Here was a pretty pass then! I had forgotten for the moment that one of the three magazines
on the table contained a short story of which, upon its appearance, I had been inordinately
proud. I was young, and no one else flattered me. Literally nobody had shared my gratification
in the publication of this story. Here was somebody from whom it drew indubitable tears; some
one who was deeply moved by its beauty....

I patted her shoulder. I drew confidences from her regarding the wretchedness of her home life.
I laid down emphatic instructions that she was to regard my room as her sanctuary; to use it
whenever and howsoever she might choose, irrespective of my presence or absence. I bade her
make free with my few books--as though the poor soul had abundance of leisure--comforted her
to the best of my ability; and-- Yes, let me evade nothing. I stroked her hair, and in leaving
her, with reiterated instructions to remain there and rest, I touched her cool white cheek
with my lips, and was strangely thrilled by the touch.

A warm wave of what I thought pity and sympathy passed over me as I walked from her.

VIII

It is rather a matter of regret with me now that I never kept a diary. Mine has been upon the
whole a somewhat lonely life, and lonely men often do keep diaries. But, in my case, I suppose
writing was too much the daily business of life to permit of leisure being given to the same task.

However, the dates of certain volumes of short stories, which appeared long ago with my name
upon their covers, are for me evidence that, after the first six months of my stay in Howard
Street, my work began to tend more and more towards fiction, and away from newspaper articles.
My dealings at this time brought me more closely into touch with magazines than with newspapers.
I became more concerned with human emotions and character, but especially with emotions, than
with those more abstract or again more matter-of-fact themes which had served me in the writing
of newspaper articles.

This may have helped me in some ways, since it meant that my name was fairly frequently seen
in print now. But the point I have in mind is, that I take this tendency in my work to have
been an indication of the particular phase of character development through which I was passing
at the time. It was at this period that I indulged myself in occasional dreams of fame. I do
not know that my conceit made me offensive in any way. I hardly think it went so far. But,
in my inmost heart, I believe I judged myself to be a creative artist of note. I certainly
had a lively imagination, a good deal of fluency--too much, indeed--as a writer, and a considerable
amount of emotional capacity and sympathy.

Later in life I often wondered, not without depression, why I no longer seemed able to move
people, to influence them in a given direction, or to arouse their enthusiasm, with the same
facility which I had known in my twenties. I see now the reasons of this. My emotional capacity
spent itself rapidly in writing and living; and with its exhaustion (and the development of
my critical faculties) came an attenuation, a drying up, so to say, of the quality of facile
emotional sympathy, which in earlier years had made it easy for me to attract, prepossess,
or influence people at will.

Given some practical organising qualities which I certainly did not possess, I apprehend that
at this period I might have engineered myself into a considerable vogue of popularity as a
writer of fiction. A little later I might almost have slid into the same position, even in
the absence of the practical qualities aforesaid, but for the trend of circumstances which
then became highly antagonistic to that sort of development.

But I note with some interest that the stories I took to writing at this period were highly
emotional in tone, and somewhat exotic in their setting. The exotic settings may have been
due in part to the fact that I had travelled, and yet more I fancy to revulsion from the material
background of my early life in London. And the emotionalism must be attributed, I apprehend,
in part to my age and temperament, and in part to my comparative solitude.

I find it extremely difficult justly to appraise or analyse my relations with Fanny. In one
mood I see merely youth, folly, vanity, and romantic emotionalism, directing my conduct; and
again I fancy I discern some loftier motive, such as sincerely chivalrous generosity, humanity,
unselfish desire to help and uplift, etc. Doubtless, in this as in most matters, a variety
of motives and influences played their part in shaping one's conduct. Single and entirely unmixed
motives are much more rare than most people believe, I fancy. Pride and vanity have a way of
dogging generosity's footsteps very closely; steadfast endurance and selfish obstinacy are
nearly related; and I dare say real kindness of heart often has a place where we most of us
see only reckless self-indulgence.

I remember very well a cold, clear moonlight night in the Hampstead Road, when reaction from
solitary reflection made me unbosom myself a good deal to Sidney Heron, in the form of seeking
his advice. On previous occasions I had told him something of Fanny and her dismal position,
and he had seen her once or twice at my lodging.

'H'm! Yes. Precisely. So I inferred.'

It was with such ejaculations, rather sardonic in tone, I thought, that he listened to me as
we walked.

'Well, what shall I do?' I said at length as we reached his gate.

'What will you do?' he echoed. 'Well, my friend, since you are an inspired ass, and a confirmed
sentimentalist, I imagine you----'

'What would you advise in the circumstances, I mean?' I interpolated hurriedly.

'My advice. Oh, that's another matter altogether, and of absolutely no value.'

'But, on the contrary, you are older than I.'

'I am indeed--centuries.'

'And your advice should be very helpful to me.'

'So it should. But it won't be, because you won't follow it.'

'How can you know that?'

'From my knowledge of human nature, sir; and, in particular, my observation of your sub-species.'

'Try me, anyhow.'

'Very well. Change your lodging to-morrow, and never set foot in Howard Street again. There's
my advice, and it's the best you'll ever get--and the last you'd ever think of following. Give
me a cigarette if you want to continue this perfectly useless conversation.'

'But, my dear Heron, I'm anxious to do the wisest thing----'

'Not you!'

'But consider the plight of that poor girl.'

'Oh, come! This opens new ground. I thought I was engaged to advise you.'

'Certainly. But in relation to--to what we've been talking about.'

'H'm! In relation, you mean, to Fanny Pelly? Phoebus, what a name! I wonder if you know what
you mean, Freydon! Let's assume you mean having equal regard to your own interests and those
of your gin-drinking landlady's daughter. Hey?'

'Well, yes. Always remembering, of course, that I am only a man, and she----'

'Oh, Lord! Excuse me. Yes; you are only a man, as you so truly say; and she is--your landlady's
daughter. Well, well, upon the whole, and giving her interests a fair show, I think my advice
would be precisely the same--clear out to-morrow.'

'And what about her future?'

'My dear man, am I a reasoning human being, or a novelette-reading jelly-fish? Did I not say
that having regard to the interests of both, that is my advice? Kindly credit me with the modicum
of intelligence required for adequate consideration of both sides. It isn't an international
complication, you know; neither is it a situation entirely without precedent in history. But,
mind you, I'm perfectly well aware that no advice, however good, is ever of any practical use;
least of all in circumstances of this order. It does, I believe, occasionally impel its victim
in the direction opposite to the one indicated. Yes, and especially in such cases. Well, my
friend, upon reconsideration then, my advice is that first thing to-morrow morning you proceed
to Doctors' Commons, wherever and whatever that may be, procure a special licence, and many
the girl. Only--don't you dare to ask me to have anything to do with it.'

The suggestion has a fantastic look, but I am more than half inclined to think Heron's final
piece of advice did have its bearing upon my subsequent actions. For it started a train of
thought in my mind regarding marriage. It gave a practical shape to mere vague imaginings.
It set me looking into details. For example, I distinctly remember murmuring to myself as I
turned the corner of Heron's street:

'Yes, after all, I suppose getting married is quite a simple job, really. There are registrar's
offices, aren't there? I suppose it's pretty well as simple, really, as getting a new coat.'

How Heron would have grinned if he had been able to follow this soliloquy!

Fanny was on her knees before my hearth when I reached my room. The lamp burned clear and soft
beside my blotting-pad. The fire glowed cheerily, and Fanny had just swept the hearth, so that
no speck showed upon it. And my slippers were in the fender. Less than a year earlier my homecomings
had been singularly different; a dark, cold room in a malodorous house, with very possibly
a drunken couple brawling on the landing outside.

But there were tears in Fanny's eyes. The mother was in one of her vicious tempers, it seemed,
and had gone to bed in her basement room with the keys of larder and kitchen, and a bottle
of gin. The daughter's last meal had been whatever she could get for midday dinner. And it
was now nine o'clock in the evening.

'Just you wait there. Don't stir from where you arc. I'll be back in three minutes,' I told her.

There was a ham and beef shop at the junction of Howard and Albany Street. Thither I hastened.
Leaving this convenient repository of ready-cooked comestibles, I bethought me of the question
of something to drink. I was bent on doing this thing well, according to my lights. Presently
I reached my room again, armed with pressed beef, cold chicken, bread, butter, mustard, salt,
plates, cutlery, a segment of vividly yellow cake, and, crowning triumph, a half bottle of Macon.

The Dickensian tradition rather suggests that the ripe experience of a middle-aged bon vivant
is desirable in the host at such occasions. Well, in that master's time youth may have lasted
longer in life than it does with us. My own notion is that mine was the ideal age for such
a part. I think of that little supper--Fanny's tremulous sips of Burgundy from my wash-stand
tumbler, the warm flush in her pale cheeks, and the sparkle in her brown eyes--as crystallising
a good deal of the phase in which I was living just then. I am quite sure I did it well, very well.

In buying those viands I knew I should keenly enjoy our little supper. I pictured very clearly
how delightful it would all seem to poor Fanny; her flushed enjoyment; just what a rare treat
the whole episode would be for her. I knew how pleasantly that spectacle would thrill me. I
thought too, in a way, what a devilish romantic chap I was, rushing out at night to purchase
supper--and Burgundy; that was important; claret would not have served--for a forlorn and unhappy
girl, who, but for my resourcefulness, would have gone starving to bed. How oddly mixed the
motives! The Burgundy, now; I believed it a more generous and feeding wine than any other.
Also, for some reason, it was for me a more romantic wine; more closely associated with, say,
the Three Musketeers and with Burgundian Denys, comrade of Reade's Gerard.

I quite genuinely wanted to help Fanny, to do her good, to brighten her dull life. The contemplation
of her pleasure gave me what some would call the most unselfish delight. Withal, as I say,
how oddly various are one's motive springs, especially in youth! And, in some respects, what
a blind young fool I was! That wine, now.... Who knows? ... I took but a sip or two, for ceremony's
sake, and insisted on fragile Fanny finishing the half bottle. And I kissed her lips, not her
cheek, as I held the lamp high to light her on her way to the garret where she slept.

* * * * *

I have not the smallest desire to make excuses for such foolishness as I displayed, at this
or any other period. But I think it just to remind myself that there are worse things than
foolishness, and that my relations with Fanny might conceivably have formed a darker page for
me to look back upon than they actually did form. We both were young, both lonely; neither
of us had found much tenderness in life, and I--I was passing through an extremely emotional
phase of life, as my work of that period clearly shows. Hovered around his house morning
and afternoon. One appeared sometimes appear behind the windows, sometimes, agreeing in advance through
Casilda, out of the city and went to sit on a ridge, front of the wall that corresponded to
his mansion, to see it hovering between turret and battlements.

The eve of departure Ramiro spent more than an hour in that place, waiting Beatriz appeared
on the tower. There was a long silence. The actor would watch the rough wall, at whose feet the
granite, reduced by ancient hands, mimicking the brunt of a sea. The girl appeared, at last,
and something white, a paper ticket, began to decline in the air with flickering ripples. What
signs would bring to him those beautiful winged messenger? What would have been the focus chosen by
his beloved to put a piece of his soul in the solemn goodbye? Received the paper in his hat and
opened it. Said:

     
     "Even more than I love you I love you if, in coming to Salamanca,
     I you did choose same; in the store called the Zamorano, a vihuela
     graceful sound cute. I would come after then, through some traveling,
     as I have had enough need.

They tell me that the San Juan priest should return this week.

                                  

     "Happy trip, my master degree.

Beatriz.

"I could write out this role by the owner, since yesterday I have
disabled a finger, playing in the garden with friends.

"

Doña Guiomar had set in motion the many servants. The next day, early in the morning, everything was
rigged, and when the time comes, sacáronse the street, the front
door, laden mules, the cuartago to Ramiro and the male donkey for
the Canon, who should accompany to Castellanos de la Canada.

Ramiro came to say goodbye to his grandfather.

Don Inigo was allowed to kiss the right hand to be dumbed down; a blizzard of old had fallen
suddenly upon him, always cool to the last heat of his intellect. His face was sucked in places
and in places dark yellow, like lemons to be resected.

In turn, Dona Guiomar hugged his son with a forced smile in tears, and, for to follow with his
eyes, went with her damsels to the tower of the mansion.

XXX

"My son, I take you longer to answer to a mother who loves you more than himself. Until today,
is the day of Pentecost, I have come new ones brought word that the lawyer Carmona. "

Thus began the second letter of your child Dona Guiomar.

Finally, one morning, a Carmelite friar, returning from Alba de Tormes, pulled out before her, the
hollow of the sleeve, the coveted role. Ramiro had his first meeting with the President College
of the Archbishop, whose own hand had left all the letters he was
carrying.

After his previous income referred to the Minor Schools.

"Is it any wonder - said - that this old custom still torment the new with cruelest inventions,
so I penetrated into the cloister, looking the very sharply, hand on the lining of the bar
and drag it by the rodajilla bravo, there were none who dared to wiggle. I know not what fate,
but everyone knows my feat with Moors. A bearded student said to me yesterday that, since he
comes to schools, no a new memory that has escaped the spit.

"Then he added:" Do you remember, mother, of that captain Antonio de Quinones, who went to our house?
In that I saw in Castellanos and wanted to take him to chase pirates. Seeing my reluctance, I said,
'Look at your worship that God made him priest, but to soldier. Care no mistake, you will regret. In
Cartagena you wait until the day of San Pedro and San Pablo. "

It was all the contents of the letter. Some time later came a shorter, which communicated only
that in the School of Archbishop now required him clean blood tests. "This - added - has always
been practice to all who sought to enter, and why are there the best
bloodlines from Spain.

But not enough, perhaps, to know my last name and I am a descendant of your son and grandfather
so clear, to excuse all probanza?

In asaltome first send the whim of the cabinets of my mules so that
they know of our coats.

But it is the power suit to the rule! "

Doña Guiomar sent an old servant, to a large animal, a terse note saying to return sooner because
his grandfather was very bad. In effect, Don Inigo, consumed by a mystery disease, passed
from this life terribly, her lips quivering by incessant prayer. That sad flesh, flowing moods,
his work anticipated the grave incident. A subtle stench spread throughout the house. The ladies
and the servants were pressed noses passing by the door of the sick.

Meanwhile, Dona Guiomar not a moment away of his head as if to give the Lord the double moral
and physical torture that prolonged to her that closed room.

Ramiro returned as soon as he could. Upon entering the city through the Puerta del Puente, a
of the guards said,

- Your worship is late. Already led to the grandfather.

Don Inigo had been buried the day before.

When the youth entered the stables who lived in the old, it seemed, at first steps, which could not
proceed, such was the stench that hung in the confined environment. The bed was as he had left
the agony, and the pillow with the sign of what no longer ponder and dream again about his softness.
The boats of medicines, the convict, mortar, cups, bands, everything had been upset and confused
about the furniture, making think of the anxiety of fighting season.

He went to the bookstore and looking the volumes piled on the floor and glasses horn marking the page
of a folio, another day to continue reading, to see, hanging from a cloves, yellow shoes, which
kept the old brushes that painted signs; and beyond, into a corner,
the gouty leg stool, blackened by grease ointments, felt in his mind
a deep sadness.

That was the end of all our endeavors.

There was, in the runoff of this being, that lesson, that advice, always ambiguous that encourages
both enjoyment and penance.

When everything had calmed down and the lot fell back into his silent
monotony, called Dona Guiomar alone with his son and said, in brief,
the state that they left the Don Iñigo ancient heritage.

They were completely ruined. He had lived until then delaying the final collapse force extreme
cases, pledging to the Genoese, one by one, all property, and selling, finally, on racks,
silverware, jewelry, tapestries. The butler flamenco it was, she said, the only person who knew
the house heritage management, and have managed perhaps new taxes, had just left for his country,
to collect a inheritance. But they had no sun, determined almost entirely, and some shields saved
in a chest, which will soon be exhausted.

It was necessary therefore to sell the mansion and resign ourselves to live in a modest house
in the suburbs.

- Anyway - Dona Guiomar added - no more precise a lot of money. Demand the Holy Church purest
goods, and now I think you can study theology at the seminary he
himself city.

Ramiro heard his mother with genuine amazement.

Ruined! Could it be?

What about the large flows that came to them for countless alliances, from the most remote ancestors,
all those grants of the Kings, all those Segovia manors, all the houses and lands in Avila and
his land, which appeared mented at every step in their scrolls?

In other circumstances would not have cared poverty, knowing that
the lack of finance pushing the heroic adventures.

But now, his instinct sensed a loving disaster because of those lost assets. He lowered his
head in silence and after a moment meditation, declared himself to his mother something that he had
not determined yet: intention to marry Beatrice, and, without his voice altered, is also said to
the great crime We remain hopeful that it would be false to his ecclesiastical
vocation.

Doña Guiomar not even blink, but his hands nervously rubbed the arms
of chair in which she sat.

Ramiro Then, bending the knee before her, took her in a frenzy both hands and staring eyes, asked
her to assist his plans and that love of God, not to sell solar to think about the impression
it would produce in the mind Don Alonso and his daughter that act diminished.

- I try to ginoveses - added, - something that will entregalles, furniture and still remain
my stone dagger, but for my honor!, do not sell the lot, mother, do not sell, not sell the lot!

She
rose slowly, his left hand on his chest:

- With what you just said - said - my life in the century is over. You now make the master. Orders,
and that His Divine Majesty to forgive you.

His expression was rare. The pain made her smile too. He walked to the table. Removed the wick
of the candlestick, cleaned it, twisted it properly. Then, without
uttering a word, left of stay.

PART TWO

I

King Don Felipe Segundo was called, with reason, the Wise.

Great were the turmoil and excesses of Aragon, but in late 1591, all seemed to end in peace
and harmony under the simulated mercy of the monarch.

The lords rebel, lost apprehension, returned to Zaragoza and offered his table the Castilian army
officers. It was time for the royal vengeance.

One morning, the Chief Justice, Don Juan de Lanuza, climbing the steps of the cathedral, he
found himself arrested on behalf of the King. A captain of musketeers awaited him early, pretending
examine the prints of a bookstore.

"Don Juan L earn to Lanuza, and do it then cut the head ', such was
the handwritten order of Philip the Second .-- And who condemned me?
- had asked the Court to hear the reading of Case .-- The King himself
- he answered .-- Nobody can be my judge - said - but King and kingdom
together in parliament.

The next day the chief magistrate of Aragon was slain by the hand of the executioner. Thus King
"put to death justice" and forever tore out several centuries. Other gentlemen, and among them,
Don Diego de Heredia, Bárboles Baron and Don Juan de Luna, M. of Purroy had to follow the same
fate, after enduring savage tortures. The Duke of Villahermosa and the Count of Aranda died mysteriously
in their prisons. Some rebels that did not have the right to die lordly headless, were dragged
through the streets, in a basket of infamy, to the club.

This was avenged the defense of Antonio Perez and forever broken the
spirit of that magnificent Aragon, who only three years deigned to
throw into the coffers of the King his arrogance charity.

Likewise the people of Castile had been chastened by the Emperor years before, when the rise of the
Communities, but they still used to be seen in one or two rebellious outbreak, as does erect
on their hind legs to the hacks castrated. No longer the masters but also the commoners began
to scream. Was labored repeat example. A lofty city had to offer
this opportunity.

On 21 October, while the royal army on his way to France, entered Aragon appeared in Avila, attached
to doors or walls of the main church, the Church of St. John, of New Butchers, the home of the Valderrábano
and other public places city, seven copies of that seditious rag and Canon Ramiro heard read
an afternoon at Don Enrique Davila on the ground floor of the mansion.

The next day, the magistrate Don Alonso de Carcamo sent an email to the Escorial. The answer
His Majesty was just a handful of black ministers to form the cause. Expected mild punishment,
and the most scurrilous and jácaras letrillas composed on the subject.

On February 14, 1592 statements were published.

To Don Diego de Bracamonte, a Davila and Enrique Daza licensed Zimbron are condemned to be beheaded.
The priest Marcos López Santo took the priesthood suffer deprivation and benefit, forfeiture
of half of his estate, ten years of galleys and banishment for life ", the clerk Antonio number
Díaz, lashing, ten years in the galleys and the same exile.

For many, the intervention of Providence was evident, and his under the prince, drawing each time
an example, completed its work. Scattered wills nothing, nothing figurerías or arrogance that
clutter power. The unit was the first precept of the Royal Art, the invulnerable and absolute
unity, in the image and likeness of that other unit that governed orbs. No will but yours, no more
thought than his own, no more faith than he himself professed. The sovereign of modern Israel
was put on the three tutelary powers: law, the sword and the ephod, and be both that Moses,
Aaron, Joshua and his people. All thrones and the headquarters will serve as a scale up to heaven
and receive He only entered the Most High. His shadow would cover the counties and the seas, and
nations it would look as the new angel, armed iron and flame, winner of Satan.

Meanwhile Spain was consumed. The fever of that monstrous delirium wiping members. The King asked,
relentlessly demanding, dropsy of taxes, and sometimes his hand, to drain the lean udder of the people,
but drew no blood. It was not possible to leave the army without pay and leave the corruption
of princes and cardinals, and the bankruptcy grew, get tangled, which is immense tangled skein
of entrails. The debts were breath of fever, real hacienda panting, each year's income spent
five years ahead.

What record, what discretion was to be tested? At one time remittance manages the Gold and silver
came from the Indies for individuals, markets the nobility, juros, the jobs; invited clerics
to legitimize their children sacrilegious by a handful of real; taxed
the export of wool tax imposed on the bread and wine previously free;
took over the salt sea maestrazgos confiscated; almojarifazgo doubled
and tripled soon the terrible sales tax.

DESMOL peoples lay down to die. Avila, Toro, Cordoba and Granada refused to accept the head
of 1576. In foreign nations the very name of Felipe Segundo was pale
with the bankers.

Finally gave the Fugger Tie up the bag and turned away. Others did not know whether to continue or
break for ever as the Jew who has been given to a gambler luenga sword. The Genoese, meanwhile,
defended with usury. Since 1590, the mess was awful for the estate of the King. Courts, corrupted
by the Monarch, the city had demanded eight million ducats.

And poverty and hunger raged as scourges of God.

An evil spell seemed to sterilize terroirs, stop the mills, lathes, looms, dislocate the arm
of the artisan.

Many did not know and how to earn a living and went to where he was found stealing. They lived
the uncertainty of the bite, the bread was made a prisoner.

       The chicanery of hunger formed an honorable and subtle art, which
had its ballads and its manuals, its poets and graduates.

The poor more harshly attacked the nobles of extinct heritage, as clear and ancient lineage
not allowed to defame his hands in the trades. More than one ate the crust that stole his page,
and sighed with sad dignity, under the cloak, to aspire, by the way, the delicious heat of
the cake. The student imitated, to live, doggy tricks.

His legs of whippet were the terror trade. That was the glorious time of the common pot. Convents
monks swelled, his goals, of sopistas. The hospital and the jail were sought fortunate as
shelters, where they ate regularly and as a miracle.

Thousands of unhappy pustules was brewing or perpetrating bloody
crimes to be fed.

The streets were full of sham beggars, the fields, fake hermits, ports, of starving gentlemen who
came to ask for a place in the galleys.

This anguish of the bowels was added the anxiety of mind, the concern
of being honorable marked by suspicion, only, of the Holy Office,
or to attract the punishment of superhuman power del Rey.

And while it seemed that the wind whispering calumny and denunciation is down under the bed where he
slept, in the folds of the outer port, in the corner of the oratorios.

Many, such as Don Alonso, suspicious of his own mouth during sleep, adormirse and avoided in
the chairs, including the passage of the easement.

All arrogance was fatal and the same silence was not sure. Silentium contumax Ne, ne suspect libertas.
The idea was shaking in the brain, and no pen dare to print what
the soul hidden deeper in the crypt.

Instead, he spoke with delight of distant countries and the inviolable peace of the cloisters.

No
missing, though he loved, indeed, the monarch, feeling it succeed
or suffer their own pride fan, most under the awful compulsion, just
for admiration.

Virility seemed to be summarized in one's own blood then harassed the viscera, and the former
value took the form of stoic disdain of all evil. It was the inexplicable
charm of tyranny. More than one in disgusted by his own subservience
to a simple signal Monarch impassively had opened his veins, as Seneca
or Petronius.

The Spanish mood was quiet and somber. A veritable
plague spread gloom throughout the country as a whiff of purgatory,
tainted souls.

The gentlemen were dressed in mourning, the wood was
as ebony. Never been so grim apparatus death.

The spirit was determined
to extract its main ideas of the tomb itself and its terrible decay.

*
* * * *

Ramiro came from Salamanca on Sunday February 16, 1592, published
two days after judgments. Canon came to visit and one at a time enumerole
convictions. There seemed very pleased to say that Don Enrique Davila
and the lawyer had given them Daza appeal. As for Don Diego, would
be executed the next day.

- You see, my son - said, - that your grandfather
has left on time. It is said that in a good pot can be a bad stew.
City you are now, my son, the words, and teneo very softly, with a
space.

- And who has given the names? - Asked Ramiro.

- Some will
- said the lectoral - who did not want to see Spain again shattered
by the revolt, As in the days of the Emperor. 

Was at once, without
giving rise to another question, that the agents had suspected HM
Don Alonso, and, in the absence of the gentleman, they entered his
house in Rondon, stirring to the last drawer and carrying a large
sheaf of papers.

- Where is executed Don Diego? - Ramiro abruptly
asked again. His pensive eyes seemed immobilized by a dominant thought.

-
At the Market Boy - Canon said .-- Yesterday I was notified of the
decision today should have confessed to receiving the Blessed Sacrament,
and tomorrow will take of the Corn Exchange, at noon, to take you
to the slaughter. It is agreed that no noble thing has to go to salute,
and that outside of the villains, who have always been craving for
this kind of shows, veranle mule only the people of law and the Communities
and Guilds.

Upon hearing this vicious language, Ramiro vehemently
declared that if the noble Avileses not going to say goodbye to Bracamonte,
at the end trance, they were all bad men.

- Everybody knows - he
said - the Don Diego, more than its ancient and glorious lineage,
has always been a man of great honor, and, without doubt, the tragic
end due to the superiority of her mind. Me I can say that I go after
him to the foot of the scaffold, without thinking about my own interest
or reason or no reason of his conviction.

I may have sat there for an hour, nursing the bitterest kind of reflections. Then I decided
to go out, and found I had left my hat in the bedroom. Very cautiously I opened one leaf of
the folding doors, tip-toed into the small room, and took my hat from the chair on which it
lay. My gaze fell for one instant across the recumbent figure of my wife, and was withdrawn
sharply. I went out with anger and revulsion in my heart, and walked rather quickly for an
hour, conscious of no relief from bitterness, no softening of my feelings.

Then I happened to pass a familiar restaurant, and told myself I would have some dinner. 'She
must go her own way,' I muttered savagely.

I entered the place, found a seat, and consulted the bill of fare. A greasily smiling Italian
came to take my order.

'Madame is not wiz you, sare?' the fellow said.

We had not been there for a month, but he remembered; and, on the instant, I recalled our last
visit--the beginning of one of our fresh starts. And this was the end of it. Well!

Suddenly I found myself reaching for my hat.

'No,' I said, 'madam is late. I will go and look for her.' And out I went. In that moment I
had seen pictures: Fanny, before our marriage, on her knees at my hearth in the room in Howard
Street; in her dove-coloured frock on our marriage night, clinging to my arm when she was fresh
from the excitement of leaving Howard Street. There were other scenes. What an immature and
helpless child she was! And how much help had I given her? After all, food and clothing and
so forth, freedom from tyranny--well, these were not everything. She needed more intimate care
and guidance. The responsibility was mine.

In the end I went to a shop and bought the materials for a meal, even as on an evening which
seemed very long ago, when I had given her supper in my bedroom. Only, on this occasion, with
a sigh which contained considerable self-reproach, I omitted Burgundy, or any equivalent thereto.
We had the wherewithal for brewing tea in our rooms. And so, carrying a supper for us both,
I returned to the lodging. And there was Fanny on her knees before the hearth in the sitting-room,
just as she had been on that previous occasion. And now she was crying. Her nerveless fingers
held no brush. The hearth was far from speckless, and the grate held only dead grey ashes,
and some scraps of torn paper--my own wasted manuscript.

Fanny was weeping, weakly and quietly. She knew, then. She had not forgotten that I had seen
her. But her hair had been brushed. She wore a different gown. She looked shrinkingly and fearfully
up at me as I came in.

'You better, little woman?' I said as I began to put down my parcels. I had tried hard to make
the words sound careless and normal, kindly and cheerful. But I thought as I heard them that
a man with a quinsy might have managed a better tone.

In another moment she was clinging to me somehow, without having risen to her feet, and sobbing
out an incoherent expression of her penitence and shame. I was tremendously moved. And, while
seeking to console her, my real sympathy for this sobbing child was shot through and illumined
by the most fatuous sort of optimism.

'I've been making a tragedy out of a disagreeable mishap,' I told myself. 'She is only a child
who has made herself ill. The thing won't happen again, one may be sure. This is a lesson she
will never forget. No one could possibly mistake the genuineness of all this.' By which I meant
her heaving shoulders, streaming eyes, and penitent self-abasement.

In the process of soothing her, of course, I made light of her self-confessed baseness. I suppose
I spent at least half an hour in comforting her. Then we supped, with a hint of April gaiety
towards the end. I endeavoured to be humorous in a lover-like way. Fanny dabbed her eyes, smiled,
and choked, and even laughed a little. But the vows, protestations, resolves for the future--these
were all most solemn and impressive.

And they all held good, too,--for a week and a half. And then our landlady gave me notice,
because in the broad light of mid-afternoon Fanny had stumbled over the front door-mat on entering
the house, and lain there, laughing and singing; she had refused to move, and had had to be
dragged upstairs for appearance's sake.

The landlady must have occupied ten minutes, I think, in giving me notice. Almost, I could
have struck the poor soul before she was through with it. When at length she drew breath, and
allowed me to escape, I thought her Cockney dialect the basest and vilest ever evolved among
the tongues of mankind. Yet the good woman was really very civil, and rather kindly disposed
towards me than otherwise, I think. There was no good reason why I should have felt bitter
towards her. Rather, perhaps, I should have been apologetic. And it was clean contrary to my
nature and disposition, this savage bitterness. But one of the curses of squalor is that it
exacerbates the mildest temper, corrodes and embitters every one it touches.

On the third morning after our instalment in new lodgings--two almost exactly similar rooms,
a little farther away from Mrs. Pelly and Howard Street, in a turning off the lower Hampstead
Road--I received a letter, forwarded on from our first lodging, from Arncliffe, the editor
to whom, some four years before this time, I had taken a letter of introduction. At intervals
Arncliffe had accepted and published quite a number of articles from my pen, but we had not
again met, unless one counts the occasion upon which I followed him into an expensive restaurant
at luncheon time, on the off-chance of being noticed by him. The letter ran thus:

'Dear Mr. Freydon,--As you are probably aware, I am now in the chair of the Advocate, and a
pretty uneasy seat I find it, so far. It occurs to me that we might be able to do something
for each other. Will you give me a call here between three and four one afternoon this week,
if you are not too busy.--Yours sincerely,     Henry Arncliffe.'

The letter gave me rather a thrill. Sylvanus Creed had published two books of mine, and my
work had recently appeared in several of the leading journals. But the Advocate was certainly
one of the oldest and most famous of London's daily newspapers--I vaguely recalled having read
somewhere that it had changed its proprietors during the past week or so--and I had never before
received a summons from the editor of such a journal. Fanny had a headache and was cross that
morning; but I told her of the letter, and explained that it might easily mean some increase
in my earnings.

'If he would commission me for a series of articles, we might afford to take a room on the
next floor for me to work in,' I said rather selfishly perhaps.

'Groceries seem to be dearer every week,' said Fanny, 'and Mrs. Heaps charges sevenpence for
every scuttle of coal. I never heard of such a price. Mother never charges more than sixpence,
no matter if coal goes up ever so.'

This touched a sore spot between us. It seemed Mrs. Pelly had two rooms empty, and Fanny did
not find it easy to forgive me for my refusal to go and live in Howard Street.

If Arncliffe found his editorial chair an uneasy seat, it was not the chair's fault. A more
dignified and withal more ingeniously contrived and padded resting-place for mortal limbs I
never saw. And the editorial apartment, how spacious, silent, and admirably adapted, in the
dignity of its lines and furnishings, for the reception of Cabinet Ministers, and the excogitation
of thunderbolts for the chancelleries of Europe! It was currently reported in Fleet Street
that Lord Beaconsfield had been particularly familiar with the interior of that apartment.

I found the great man in cheerful spirits, and looking fresher than ordinary mortals, I suppose
because his day had only just begun. From him I learned how, some eight days previously, the
Advocate had been purchased, lock, stock, and barrel (from the family whose members had inherited
possession of it), by Sir William Bartram, M.P., head of the great engineering and contracting
firm which bore his name. It seemed Sir William had been advised by a very great statesman
indeed to secure the editorial services of Mr. Arncliffe; and he had managed to do it in forty-eight
hours by dint of the exercise of a certain amount of political and social influence in various
quarters, and by entering into a contract which, for some years, at all events, would make
Arncliffe a tolerably rich man.

A good deal was left to my imagination, of course. It was assumed, very kindly, that I understood
the relations existing between this nobleman and the other, as touching Sir William's precise
influence and sphere in the world of politics. Naturally, when the Party Whip heard so and
so, he went to Mr. ----, and the result, of course, was pressure from Lord ----, which settled
the matter in five minutes. I nodded very intelligently at intervals, to show my recognition
of the inevitableness of it all; and so an end was reached of that stage in our conversation.

In the slight pause which followed Arncliffe touched a spring releasing the door of a cabinet
apparently designed to hold State Papers of the highest importance, and disclosed some beautiful
boxes of cigars and other creature comforts. It became clear to me, as I thanked Arncliffe
for the match he handed me, that he must have forgotten the first impressions he had formed
of me some years earlier. Perhaps he had confused me in his mind with some other more important
and affluent person. And yet he did remember some of my articles. His remarks proved that.
I wondered if he could also remember that they had reached him, some of them, from South Tottenham.
Probably not. And, if he did, his editorial omniscience could hardly have given him knowledge
of any of my slum garrets. On the other hand, he clearly assumed that I was familiar with the
life of the House of Commons and the clubs of London, if not with that of the other august
and crimson-benched Chamber.

'You know L----,' he said, casually mentioning a leader in literary journalism so prominent
that I could not but be familiar with his reputation.

'By name, of course,' I agreed.

'Ah! To be sure. And T----, and R----, and, I think, J----; yes, I've got 'em all. So we ought
to make the Advocate move things along, if the most brilliant staff in London can accomplish it.'

I nodded sympathetically, and presently gathered that over and above all this the kindly and
intimate relations subsisting between Arncliffe and the principal occupants of the Treasury
Bench (not to mention a certain moiety of influence which might conceivably be exercised by
the new proprietor, Sir William) were such as to ensure brilliant success and greatly increased
prestige to the Advocate, under the new regime.

All this was very pleasant hearing, of course, and at suitable intervals I offered congratulatory
movements of the head and eyebrows, with murmured ejaculations to similar effect. But, as touching
myself and my obscure problems (of which such an Olympian as Arncliffe could, naturally, have
no conception), it was all somewhat insubstantial and remote; rather of the stuff of which
dreams are compounded. And so, watching my opportunity, I presently ventured a tentative inquiry
as to the direction in which I might hope to justify the terms of Mr. Arncliffe's letter, and
be of any service.

'Oh! Well, of course, that's for you to say,' said the editor, with a suggestion of having
been suddenly curbed in full career. 'I may be quite wrong in supposing such things would have
any interest for you. But I--I have followed--er--your work, you know; followed your work and,
in fact, it struck me you might like to join us here, you know. It is a staff worth joining,
I think, and-- But, of course, you are the best judge of your own affairs.'

'It's extremely kind of you, extremely kind.'

'Not at all. I think you could do good work for the Advocate.'

'There's nothing I'd like better. But-- Do I understand that you mean me to join your permanent
staff, and come and work here in the building every day?'

'Why, yes; yes, to be sure.'

'I see.'

It meant an end to my free-lancing then. But, after all, what had this free-lancing meant,
since my marriage? It would provide a place to work in. The hours might not be excessive. The
pay ... Fanny was for ever talking of the increase in prices. My earnings, though on the up
grade, had seemed very insufficient of late. There certainly was nothing to make me cling to
our home as a place in which to carry on my work. The mood was a bit oblivious. There was some concern in the party,
motivated by the presence of P. Gil, whom none of his colleagues, if except P. Norberto, showed
sympathy. The conversation was rolling from one to another subject, all unimportant. In a moment
of silence, D. Juan Casanova, who had his head tilted to one side, no doubt by the excessive weight
of the brain, somewhat discharged, saying with his usual solemnity

- Eloise, today I found his brother Alvaro in the Paseo de la Atalaya. He wore trousers frame.

Ms
Eloisa sighed, as long as he played the point of his brother.

-
These days have been a little sick.

I was told the servant - said sending a shy glance at the table where
he played her husband.

D. Martin and his brother for some time that were not related. For the trivial reason of furniture
of the house that was meant to bring to his own, without right, broke in a violent way. D. Martin (what
else?) Put his hand on his brother's face and challenged him over this. From then, total separation
between them. D. Álvaro living in his huge house, all alone, and D. Martin in his with his wife.
This, from time to time, hidden from Mr. Martin, was to visit his brother.

- Not appear to enjoy good health - said P. Gil, who did not know why he was interested man.

- Oh! Very sickly and delicate. Just taking care a lot can go on living.

Clerics, as always when Montesinos was in the presence of his sister, kept gloomy silence, with
a long face and plastered. If it were not, would insurance released a statement of outrage and sarcasm
against that wicked one, who was shocked the villa with his views and his conduct. With great
difficulty adhering to the narrow loop family.

There was a gloomy silence, for the ladies, realizing what was happening
in the interior of spiritual directors dared not speak.

Ms Eloisa turned to breathe another sigh and said painful accent, as if to end in a monologue
aloud:

- Too bad you have been perverted in Madrid!

Alvaro has a good heart ... and they all say he is a man of talent.

Clerics felt annoyed by those accolades. One of them, Father Melchior, is dare say smirk:

- Madam, permit me not to recognize talent who does not admit the truth of our holy religion.

-
At least it was the first in his chair and went among their teachers for a guy clear.

- And it will, madam, - said Fr Gil, whom the aggressive twang of
his partner was upset .-- It can have talent and be blinded in any
case.

His brother, unfortunately, what is in regard to the most interesting to man. But there is no reason
to deny talent. The heretics have been great, if not so, would certainly not have could give
the appearance of truth to error and deceive many people.

Although it felt wounded to the quick by the indirect reply, Fr Melchor
did not dare answer, and preferred to be distracted eating the anger.

For most who do not confess all Peñascosa clergy felt the superiority of P. Gil, who blamed,
of course, to was the only one among them who had followed the race can of theology. No other
attempt not contradict him for fear of making a bad paper.

The conversation was directed by the other side. Charlose lively construction project of a new
church near the plaza, flown by several neighbors and which opposed with all their might the
priest, fearing to divide the parish. The players were alternatives in their silence and noisy altercation.
Fr Gil remained silent and pensive, impressed with what he had to hear and say. Figure of Montesinos,
who had not seen more than three or four times in his life, and that from a distance, floating
in his mind waking up at Viva curiosity. The claim that Mrs. Eloisa had always been the first among
his classmates, helped to make it bigger, if not more interesting
to your eyes, man.

A desire vague, indefinite and conquer approach was born in his mind. When the arrival of
D. José Maria Osuna, the apothecary and gave the signal for the dissolution of the gathering,
even the thought rolled for his brain for shape.

The night was overcast and gloomy. The sky would drop with obstinacy a fine rain and cold. At
the door of the house the circles were divided: most stayed for the near the square, others went
down the street of the Quadrant.

And on it went separating all until they were alone Fr Gil, Osuna and his daughter, the only
living Field of fainting. Obdulia arranged that the P. Gil's tapase with his umbrella. The hunchback
moved back, glad not to go through the humiliation of having her daughter tapase, for because
of the large difference in height so it was good.

They walked a few moments in silence, listening to the distant roar
of the sea beating against the rocks and the faint sound of rain on
the umbrella.

The girl expected to P. Take out Gil the conversation of his altercation
with Fr Narciso, and indefinitely prolonged attempt silence.

Seeing taciturn and withdrawn, he ventured to say in a trembling voice:

- Are you angry with me, father?

- Why? - Asked the clerk in surprise, suddenly out of his meditation.

-
The dispute I had with D. Narciso.

- Ah!

Yes ..

In fact, I did not like the rebellious attitude that you have placed
in front him.

It is unworthy of a humble and virtuous young as you ...

Obdulia was silent, feeling in the heart of the censorship of his director. Finally he said,
putting red, which no one could see:

- You're right, I have committed a sin and repent ...

After a long pause, he added humbly:

- You can not imagine how much I dislike the look of envy D. Narciso.

-
Envy? - Asked the priest with surprise .-- Who is jealous?

- You,
Father, to you - the young woman said firmly.

- No, my dear, no -
said Fr Gil all bewildered .-- I can not be envied by anyone ... I
a poor clergyman ... a miserable sinner ...

- Well, even so ... I
understand ...

Replace your embarrassment, the priest then said sharply:

-
I beg you not to say those things again, or that thinks ... Forbid
it ... Note you are two priests - added after a pause, his voice softening.

Obdulia

no reply. Muda and heart squeezed by a strange sentence, continued
marching next to the cleric.

He spoke to Osuna without turning

- At the Country are going to feel the air, Mr. Osuna.

- When does not blow in that damn field? - Said the hunchback with bad humor.

And indeed, to engage with it, a violent gust struck them face and
was about to return umbrellas.

The cleric's robe, the petticoat of the girl waving: they had trouble
forward.

Finally reached the great portal of Montesinos.

They wiped his face with his handkerchief and restored the disorder of his clothes. Fr Gil
returned to lead a curious look, searching for the dark door on top
of which always burning oil lamp.

- Goodbye, Mr. Osuna, you rest
- said extending his hand to the hunchback.

Then he had a moment of indecision going to lie to Obdulia, but troubled by the look intense
and ecstatic that she nailed him, took his hat and bowed gravely, saying:

- Good evening, miss.

Again raised the umbrella and quickly saved the distance that separated him from the rectory.
The Obdulia eyes, motionless at the door while his father called, and followed him for some time.

Before
entering the rectory, Father Gil turned and also stood a few moments. But his eyes sought the
door where it had disappeared. Were above once embraced the vast and sombre facade of the
great manor house, seasoned with Hurricane shocks, serious and disdainful slept under the weather.
Contemplola long, carefully. His eyes shone with a mystical fire of joy. It was the look of
the apostle, greedy, tender, lenient. Perhaps the expression should be reflected in the eyes of
San Pedro in view of Rome.

IV

Since that night, Fr Gil did not dream of anything else.

Apostolate fever reddened with so that did not leave empty corner in your brain to another thought.
Within it entablose a silent struggle between the living and burning desire to enrich your life
with the conquest of a bitter enemy of the Church, and fear repossession, crazy, not knowing why
he inspired. In his ongoing walk around the room it occupied in the rectory, while with breviary
in his hand saying the obligatory prayers, often stopped at the window the tip of the curtain
rose, and looked timid and anxious at the palace of Montesinos. There was, stern, impenetrable,
hostile as a stronghold built by the impious. Balconies closed forever. The mystery man who
had lived to hate both the light sun as that of faith. Fr Gil then directed at the sky and
gave thanks to God from the bottom of my heart for having always had his hand, having been born
and live region in light of the holy Christian beliefs.

He tried in vain to inquire into details of the life and character of those lost sheep who longed
to bring into the fold. Who provided data were contradictory. While her sister and some others
had it as a perfect gentleman, a man of substance, astray by bad company and wicked reading books,
others also claimed known each other since childhood, painted as being perverse, mean-spirited,
always smiling the misfortunes and frailties of others, insolent, aggressive speech, since
labor could not be natural for his weak and sickly. In this regard recounted anecdotes of his childhood
and adolescence evidencing this view. Still others, he had a unfortunate for a man whom his literary
career disappointments and deep sorrow household had filled the heart of gall. Assumed that Montesinos,
fan letters, love of glory had gone to Madrid. Instead of it, was the only glacial indifference this,
coupled with the disaster of his marriage, he had been forced to
retreat back to Peñascosa "Tail between his legs," as a serious biographer
quaintly said.

And claimed Montesinos vented his bitterness and spite blaspheming word when presented the occasion
and publishing articles in newspapers and magazines of the Masons. Fr Gil knew what to expect.
Bowed, however, this latter view, that reconciled to some extent the benevolent of her sister and
some friends with the bad reputation it had in the village. What surprise did not stop was that
while the clergy and traditionalists Peñascosa cordially detested him, the few Republicans
and Masons in the town had not demonstrated any estimates. Montesinos was said that they laughed
even more wins than Catholics constantly and had fled their treatment.

This news, which gathered on one side and other hiding, of course, your project, were calculated
to take away from him. Impenetrable mystery that surrounded the character the man was interested in becoming
more and more frightened him. He knew how to attract matter a lost soul in the bosom of the
Church, but when this soul was that of a heretic, an enemy bitter of it, the act grew enormously
in the eyes of God. Circling the idea conceived several times in order to immediately close to
him, talk and convince with reasons and entreaties but soon left him fearing failure. Not that
you fret her least in his self: he was determined to suffer for God with joy all kinds of
martyrdom, the more an insult. The fear was having to give an undertaking as noble and glorious.
Gradually he became convinced that God Himself enjoined especially this was the main task imposed
on him by sending him to Peñascosa. And convinced sublime that purpose is without prejudice
to the adoption of the most effective means to carry to a successful auction, resolviose to communicate
with her godmother and Dona Eloisa help. Grande was the joy of the good lady to get the confidence.
Earnestly applauded the project, satisfying the most ardent desire of his heart, and promised
to do everything humanly possible that such a beautiful dream come true. There were long talks
between the two in were sought and weighted means of carrying it out, were drawn and rejected
different plans and, finally, were agreed that the toilets were at the house of D. Álvaro on
behalf of his sister to ask for alms to widows and orphans of fishermen who had recently died
at sea.

Seizing the opportunity, might therefore need to be friend and slowly begin the work of his conversion.
Ms Eloisa not doubt the success, confident in the proper fund of his brother and virtue and science
of his godson. When ever told him about religious practices, Alvaro had responded with some rude
invective against clerics Peñascosa; thought about the idiots, other wicked all laughed heartily.
But what could I say about this boy so Well, as scholars, as pure and austere habits?

He was not so confident. As he approached the day of the visit, he felt more restless and fearful.
Insistently asked God to give strength and courage, and prepare their
arguments and even his sentences with exaggerated care.

One morning, after having been in prayer long time, left the rectory
with a firm step, saved the little distance between him Montesinos
Palace, entered the dark portal and pulled the bell cord greasy.

This sounded far waterfall and sad.

The priest's heart contracted, despite encouragement that the sentence
had been infused.

Presented itself after waiting a long time a servant elder sullen
countenance.

Seeing the toilet, his eyes hard and penetrating expressed astonishment.

-
D. Alvaro is?

Slow to answer.

- You can see that is! - Said after .-- never leaves.

- What can you do?

- Why not?

- Well, tell you that the curate of the parish want to talk to him on behalf of your sister
Ms Eloisa.

- No need. Come with me - he replied sharply.

And after you close and lock the door carefully, he walked forward.

Do not fail to surprise the air of authority to excuse the old home,
and what little they had the will his master to receive or not receive
visits.

After crossing a large courtyard, wet, poorly paved, which grew all over the grass, surrounded
by rough stone columns stained moss, rose by a rough stone staircase and also the steps spent
by the use. Saved on the main floor wide open corridor, with wooden
floors, so deteriorated that it was necessary to be careful not to
put his foot through a hole. For all hand there is a strange abandonment,
the walls dirty, chipped, ground with a finger of dust, cracked ceilings;
there seemed an inhabited house, but an ancient abbey lonely. The
great manor house of Montesinos was rotting, crumbling, no owner it
tried to reform the child, without even notice it. On the second floor
raised led him through several rooms at the dilapidated and gloomy,
finally opened a glass door with dirty curtains, after taking a look
on the inside, said:

- He is not here. There will be uploaded to
the library.

Return to retrace his steps. They found a small door
in the corridor close, and she came followed by the priest's servant,
up a spiral staircase darker and dirtier even as the rest of the house.
 In view of this it was, more than for any monetary reason--though, as a fact,
it did seem to me that I was rather more short of money now than in my poorer days--that we
took to living in shabby quarters, and in the frowzier types of apartment houses, where few
questions are asked, and no particular etiquette is observed....

So I set these things down as though looking back across the years upon the affairs of some
unfortunate stranger on the world's far side. But, Heaven knows, this is not because I have
forgotten, or shall ever forget, any of the squalid misery, the crushing, all-befouling humiliation
and wretchedness of those years. Just as one part of the period burnt its mark into me for
ever by means of its effects upon my bodily health, just as surely as it burned its way through
my poor wife's constitution; so indelibly did every phase of it imprint itself upon my brain,
and permanently colour my outlook upon life.

Men, and even women, who have never come into personal contact with the pestilence that infected
my married life, are able to speak lightly enough of it.

'Bit too fond of his glass, I'm told!'

'His wife is a bit peculiar, you know. Yes, he has to keep the decanters under lock and key,
I believe.'

Remarks of that sort, often semi-jocular, are common enough. The pastry-cooks and the grocers
know a lot about the feminine side of this tragedy, at which so many folk smile. But those
who, from personal experience, know the thing, would more likely smile in the face of Death
himself, or joke about leprosy and famine.

I had seen something of the working of the curse among London's very poor people. Now, I learned
much more than I had ever known. At first I thought it terrible when, once in a month or so,
Fanny became helpless and incapable from drinking gin. I came eventually to know what it meant
to see ground for thankfulness, if not for hope, in a period of forty-eight consecutive hours
of sobriety for my wife.

The practical difficulties in these cases are very great for people as comparatively poor as
we were. They are intolerably acute in the households of workmen earning from one to two pounds
a week. In such families the presence of children--and there generally are children--is an
added horror, which sometimes leads to the most gruesome kind of murder; murder for which some
poor, unhinged, broken-hearted devil of a man is hanged, and so at last flung out of his misery.

I never gave Fanny any money now if I could possibly avoid it. Accordingly, I discovered one
day, when I had occasion to look for my dress clothes, that, having sold practically every
garment of her own, my wife had cleared out the major portion of my small wardrobe.

But a far worse thing happened shortly afterwards, when my wife pawned some plated oddments
belonging to our landlady. This episode kept me on the rack for a full week. Replacing the
stolen articles was, fortunately, not difficult; but the landlady was. She was bent upon prosecution,
and our escape was an excruciatingly narrow one. I had a four days' 'holiday' over this episode,
during which my editor was allowed to picture me in cheerful recuperation up-river--one of
a merry boating party.

After this I made inquiries about trained nurses, and gathered that they were quite beyond
my means; not alone in the matter of the scale of remuneration they required, but, even more
markedly, in the scale of household comfort which their employment necessitated. I talked the
matter over very seriously with Fanny, and begged her to try the effect of three months in
a curative institution of which I had obtained particulars. At first she was very bitter and
angry in her refusal to discuss this. Then she wept, sobbed, and became hysterical in imploring
me never to think of such a thing for her. But the extremely difficult and harrowing escape
from police court proceedings had impressed me very deeply.

As soon as we could get together the bare necessities by way of furnishings, I insisted on
our moving into unfurnished rooms in which we could cater for ourselves. But the result was
not merely that there was never a meal prepared for me, but also that Fanny never had a proper
meal. I engaged servants. They either gave notice after a week, or worse, much worse, my wife
made boon companions of them. We moved again, this time into unfurnished rooms in a house whose
landlady undertook to serve meals to us at stated hours. But the house was too respectable
for us, and in a month we were given notice.

No, it was not easy to develop any very warm interest in Mr. Arncliffe's projects for the stimulation
of the Advocate's circulation. But I occupied Dr. Powell's old room during most days, and did
my best; and, rather to my surprise, when I quite casually said I was not able to afford some
luxury or another--lawn tennis, I believe it was, recommended by my chief as a remedy for my
fagged and unhealthy appearance--I was given an increase of salary to the extent of an additional
fifty pounds a year. I expressed my thanks, and Arncliffe said:

'Not at all, not at all. I'm only too glad. Your work's first rate, and I much appreciate your
suggestions. I don't want you to work less; but, in all seriousness, my dear fellow, you should
take it easier. Do just as much work, but don't worry so much about it. Carry your whatsaname
more lightly, you know. Believe me, that's the thing.'

I agreed of course, and went home to give Fanny the news of the increased salary. I found her
helpless and comatose on the hearth-rug.

I had talked to doctors, and gleaned little or nothing therefrom. Now I tried a lawyer, with
a view to finding out the legal aspect of my position. Was it possible to oblige my wife to
enter a curative institution against her will? Certainly not, save by a magistrate's order,
and as the result of repeated appearances in the dock at police courts.

The lawyer told me that our 'man-made' laws were pretty hard upon husbands in such cases as
mine. They offered no relief or assistance whatever, he said; though in the case of a persistently
drunken husband, the law was fortunately able to do a good deal for the wife. 'But nothing
at all when it's the other way round,' he added; 'a fact which leads to much misery, and not
a little crime, among the poorer classes. I'm very sorry for you,' he added; 'but to be frank,
I must say that the law will not help you one atom; neither will it offer you any kind of redress
if your wife sells up your home once a week. Neither may you legally put her out from your
home because of that. Under our law a wife may claim and hold her husband's company until she
drives him into the bankruptcy court, or the lunatic asylum--or his grave. It is worse than
senseless, but it is the law; and if your business prevents you keeping watch and ward over
your wife yourself, the only course is to employ some relative, or a professed caretaker, to
do it for you. The law shows a little more common sense where the case is the other way round.
A wife can always get a separation order to relieve her of the presence of a persistently drunken
husband; and, with it, an order for her maintenance, which he must obey or go to prison.'

So I did not get very much for my six-and-eightpence, beyond an explicit confirmation of the
impression already pretty firmly rooted in my mind, that the most burdensome portion of my
particular load in life was something which nobody could help me to carry.

By this time Fanny had lost the sense of shame and humiliation which had characterised all
her early recoveries, and informed all her good resolutions and frantic promises of amendment.
She made no resolutions now, and in place of shame, poor soul, was conscious only of the physical
penalties which her excesses brought in their train. These made her very sullen, and, at the
same time, very irritable. There were times, as I well knew, when she had no other means of
obtaining drink, but yet did obtain it, from that misguided woman--her mother, whose craving
she inherited, without a tithe of the brute strength which apparently enabled the older woman
to defy all consequences.

I do not think it necessary to set down here precisely the miserable ways in which I saw her
habits gradually sap all self-restraint and womanly decency from my wife. The process was gradual,
pitilessly inexorable as the growth of a malignant tumour, and a ghastly and humiliating thing
to witness. In the case of a woman, my impression is that alcoholism reacts even more directly
upon character, and the mental and nervous system, than it does in men. Their fall is more
complete. At least, for a man it is more horrible to witness than any degradation of another man.

XIV

In these days it was my habit each evening to make  my way as directly as might be from the
Advocate office to our home of the moment. There was, of course, always a certain measure of
uncertainty in my mind as to what might await me in our rooms; and there were many occasions
when my presence there as early as possible was highly desirable. It was my dismal task upon
more than two or three occasions to visit police stations, and enter into bail to save my wife
from spending a night in the cells.

Naturally, in view of all these circumstances, I remained as much a hermit as though living
in Livorno Bay, so far as the social life of my colleagues and of London generally was concerned.
During all this time social intercourse was for me confined to Fanny (who became steadily less
social in her habits and inclinations) and to occasional meetings with Sidney Heron. Once and
again a man at the office would ask me to dine with him (regarding me as a bachelor, of course),
and always I felt bound to plead a prior engagement. One night, when Fanny had gone early to
bed, feeling wretchedly ill, and sullenly angry because I would have no liquor of any sort
on the premises, not even the lager beer which it had been my own habit for some time past
to drink with meals, Heron sat with me in our living-room, smoking and staring into the fire.
It was late, and something had moved Heron to stir me into giving him the outline of my early
life and Australian experiences.

'Yes, you're a queer bird,' he opined, after a long silence. 'And your life confirms my old
conviction that, broadly speaking, there are only two kinds of human beings: those who prey--with
an "e," and rarely with an "a"--and those who are preyed upon: parasites and their hosts. There
are doubtless subdivisions in infinite variety; but I have yet to meet the man or woman who,
in essence, is not parasite or host, the preyer or the preyed upon.'

'And I----'

'Oh, clearly, and all along the line, you're the host. Mind, I waste no great sympathy upon
you. It is quite an open point which class is the less deserving or the better off. But in
your case it is, perhaps, rather a pity, because upon the whole I doubt if your fibre is tough
enough to sustain the part. On the other hand, you haven't half enough--well--suction for a
successful parasite; and those between are apt to get ground up rather small. My advice to
you-- But, Lord, is there any greater folly in all this foolish world than the giving of advice?'

'Never mind. Let's have it.'

'No, I'll not give advice. But I will state what I believe to be a fact; and that is that you
would be the better for it if you were sedulously to cultivate a self-regarding policy of laissez-faire.
It may be as rotten as you please as a national policy. Our own beloved countrymen are even
now, I think, preparing for the world a most convincing demonstration of that. But for certain
individuals--you among 'em--it has many points, and, pursued with discretion, is likely to
prove highly beneficial.'

'Ah! The let-be policy?'

Heron nodded. 'Of all creeds,' he said, 'perhaps the one that calls for the most rigid self-control--for
a certain type of man, the type that most needs its use.'

I had lowered my voice involuntarily, though I knew that Fanny had long since been sleeping
heavily. 'Do you realise what it would mean in my particular case, on the domestic side?' I asked.

'Well, yes; I think so.'

'Hardly, my friend. It would mean relinquishing the care of my wife to the police.' There were
no secrets between us in this matter.

'Yes, something rather like that, I suppose,' said Heron. 'And don't you think upon the whole
they may be rather better equipped for the task?'

'My dear Heron!'

'Oh, of course, that tone's unanswerable. But lay aside the sentimental aspect, and consider
the practical logic of it. You might as well see where you really stand, you know. It won't
affect your actions, really. You belong to the wrong division of the race. But what are you
doing to remedy your wife's case?'

I admitted I was doing nothing. I had tried in many directions, including the clandestine administration
of costly specifics, which had merely seemed to rob poor Fanny of all appetite for food, without
in any way affecting the lamentable craving which wrecked her life.

'Precisely,' resumed Heron. 'You are doing nothing to remedy it, because there is nothing you
are in a position to do. You are merely "standing by," as sailors say, from sentimental motives.
It is laissez-faire, of a sort; only, it's an infernally painful and wearing sort for you.
It reduces your life to something like her own, without, so far as I can see, benefiting her
in the least. I think the police could do as well. In fact, in your place, I should clear out
altogether, and give Mrs. Pelly a show. But, failing that, I would at least wash my hands,
so to say. I would refuse the situation any predominant place in my mind, join a club and use
it, and-- O Lord! what is the use of talking of absolutely hopeless things? I don't know that
I'd do anything of the sort, and I do know very well that you won't.'

There fell another silence between us, which lasted several minutes. And then Heron rose to
his feet, knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and said he must be going. I walked down the road
with him, and paused at its corner, where he would pick up an omnibus. The moon emerged from
behind a cloud, touching with a delicate sepia some fleecy edge of cumuli.

'Has it ever occurred to you, my innocent, that there is anything in England beyond the metropolitan
radius?' asked Heron suddenly. 'Honest, now; have you ever been ten miles from Charing Cross
since you landed from that blessed ship?'

'Well, it does seem queer, now you mention it; but I don't believe I have-- Except to Epping
Forest, you know. I'm not sure how far that is; but I used often to go there at one time, not
lately, but----'

'Before you mortgaged your soul to the Advocate, eh? Though I suppose the more serious mortgage
was the one before that. Look here! Bring your wife on Saturday, and meet me at Victoria at
ten o'clock. We'll go and have a look at Leith Hill. A tramp will do you both good. Will you come?'

By doing a certain amount of work there on Sunday, I could always absent myself from office
on a Saturday. So I agreed to go. On the Friday Fanny seemed unusually calm and well. I was
quite excited over the prospect of our little jaunt, and Fanny herself appeared to think cheerfully
and kindly of it. In the lodging we occupied at that time I had a tiny bedroom of my own. I
woke very early on the Saturday morning, but when I found it was barely five o'clock turned
over for another doze. When next I woke it was to find, greatly to my annoyance, that the hour
was half-past eight; and there were several little things I wanted to have done before starting
for Victoria. I hurried into our sitting-room before dressing, meaning to rouse Fanny, whose
room opened from it. But she was not in her bedroom, and returning to the other room I found
a note on the table.

'I am not feeling well,' the note said, 'and cannot come with you to-day. So I shall spend
the day with mother, and be back here about tea-time.'

For a moment I thought of hurrying round to Mrs. Pelly's, and seeing if I could prevail on
Fanny to change her mind. But I hated going to that house, and, of late, I had had some experience
of the futility of trying to influence Fanny in any way during these sullen morning hours,
when she was very often possessed by a sort of lethargy, any interference with which provoked
only excessive irritation.

It was most disappointing. But-- 'Very well, then,' I muttered to myself, 'she must stay with
her mother. I can't leave Heron waiting at Victoria.'

So I dressed and proceeded direct to the station, relying upon having a few minutes to spare
there during which to break my fast in the refreshment-room.

Heron nodded rather grimly over my explanation of Fanny's absence, and we were both pretty
silent during the journey to Dorking. But once out in the open, and tramping along a country
road, we breathed deeper of an air clean enough to dispel town-bred languors. I felt my spirits
rise, and we began to talk. The day was admirable, beginning with light mists, and ripening,
by the time we began our tramp, into that mellow splendour which October does at times vouchsafe,
especially in the gloriously wooded country which lies about Leith Hill.

The foliage, the occasional scent of burning wood--always a talisman for one who has slept
in the open--glimpses of new-fallowed fields of an exquisite rose-madder hue, bracken and heather
underfoot, and overhead blue sky sweetly diversified by snowy piles of cloud--these and a thousand
other natural delights combined to enlarge one's heart, ease one's mind, and arouse one's dormant
instinct to live, to laugh, and to enjoy. Worries rolled back from me. I responded jovially
to Heron's grim quips, and felt more heartily alive than I had felt for years.

Having walked swingingly for four or five hours we sat down in a pleasant inn to a nondescript
meal, at something like the eighteenth-century dining hour; consuming large quantities of cold
boiled beef, salad, cheese, home-baked bread, and brown ale. (I had learned now to drink beer,
on such occasions as this, at all events; and did it with a childish sense of holiday 'swagger.'
Its associations with rural life pleased me. But in the town I was annoyed to find that even
half a glass of it was apt to make my head ache villainously.) We sat and smoked, talking lazily
in the twilight; missed one train, and walked leisurely to the next station to catch a later one.

The approach to London rather chilled and saddened me by the sharp demand it seemed to make
for the laying aside of calm reflection or cheerful conversation, and the taking up of stern
realities, practical considerations--the hard, concrete facts of daily life. The outlines of
the huddled houses, the moving lights of thronged streets, the Town-- It seemed to grip me
by the shoulder.

'Come! Wake up from your fancies. Been laughing, joking, chatting, drawing deep breaths, have
you? Ah, well, here am I. You know me. Hear the ring of the hurrying horses' feet on my hard
ways? See the anxious ferret faces of my workers? I am Reality. I am your master, and the world's
master. You may escape me for a day, and dream you are a free man in the open. Grrrr!--' The
train jars to a standstill. 'That may be well enough for a dream; but I am Reality. Come! There's
no time here for reflection. Pick up your load. Get on; get on; or I'll smash you down in my
gutters, where my human wastage lies!'

That is how cities have always spoken to me as I have entered them from the country. And yet--and
yet, most of my life has been spent within their confines. Long imprisonment makes men fear
liberty, they say. But how could a man fear the kindly country and its liberty for reflection?
And, attaining to it, how could he possibly desire return to the noisy, crowded cells of the
city? Impossible, surely, unless of course the city offered him a living, his life; and the
country--calm and beautiful--refused it. And that perhaps is rather often the position, for
your sedentary man, at all events; your modern, who cannot dig and is ashamed to beg--a numerous
and ever increasing body.

Big Ben struck the hour of eight as we trundled past into Whitehall on the top of an omnibus.
I thought of Fanny with some self-reproach. She would have reached the lodgings by about five,
and our evening meal hour was seven. I hoped she had not waited without her meal. I left Heron
on the 'bus, for he had farther than I to go, and hurried along to No. 46 Kent Street--the
dingy house in which we had been living now for a month or more.

Fanny was not there, and, to my surprise, the landlady told me she had not been in all day,
save for five minutes in the early afternoon, after which she went out carrying a parcel. I
went to my bedroom for an overcoat, as the night was chilly. I possessed two of these garments
at the time--one rather heavy and warm, the other a light coat. Both were missing from their
accustomed pegs.

'Tcha! Now what does this mean?' I growled to myself; knowing quite well what it meant. 'And
I take holidays in the country! I might have known better.'

And with that--all the brightness of the day forgotten now--I hurried out, bound for Howard
Street and Mrs. Pelly's house.

But Mrs. Pelly had no idea as to her daughter's whereabouts. It seemed Fanny had left her before
three o'clock, intending to go home.

Then began a search of the kind which had become only too familiar with me of late. I suppose
I must have entered upon scores of such dismal quests since my marriage. First, I visited some
twenty or thirty different 'gin-mills.' (In one of them I stayed a few minutes to eat a piece
of bread and cheese.) Then I went to two police stations, at the two opposite ends of that
locality. Finally, I tramped back to Kent Street, thinking to find Fanny there, and picturing
in advance the condition in which I should find her. The most I ventured to hope was that she
had been able to reach her room without assistance. But she had not been there at all.

I went out again into the street, somewhat at a loss. It was now past ten o'clock. After some
hesitation I caught a passing omnibus and journeyed back towards Howard Street, near which
stood a third police station, which I had not before visited.

'Wait there a minute, will you?' said the officer to whom my inquiry here was addressed. A
moment later I heard his voice from an adjacent corridor; 'Has the doctor gone?' it asked.
I did not hear the answer. But a minute or two later a tall man in a frock coat entered the
room and walked up to me. I could see the top of a stethoscope protruding from one of his inner
breast-coat pockets.

'Name of Freydon?' he said tersely.

'Yes.'

'Ah! Will you step this way, please, to my room?'

And, as we passed into an inner room, he wheeled upon me with a look of grave sympathy in his
eyes. 'I have serious news for you, Mr. Freydon; if--if it is your wife who is here.'

Then I knew. Something in the doctor's grave eyes and meaning voice told me. It was not really
necessary for me to ask. I knew quite certainly, and had no wish, no intention to say anything.
My subconscious self apparently was bent upon explicitness. For, next moment, I heard my own
voice, some little distance from me, saying, in quite a low tone:

'My God! My God! My God!' And then: 'You don't mean that she is dead?'

But I knew all the time.

Then I heard the doctor speaking. His body was close to me, but his voice, like my own, came
from some distance away.

'A woman was brought here by a constable this afternoon ... helpless ... intoxication.... Did
your wife ... is she addicted to drink?' I may have nodded. 'There was a pawnticket in the
name of Freydon.... She passed away less than an hour ago.... The condition ... heart undoubtedly
accelerated ... alcoholism ... a very short time, in any case.... Medically, an inquest would
be quite unnecessary, but.... Will you come with me, and ...'

From a long way off now these phrases trickled into my consciousness, the sense of them somewhat
blurred and interrupted by a continuous buzzing noise in my head. We walked along dead white
passages, and down steps. We stopped at length where a man in uniform stood at a door, which
he opened for us at a sign from the doctor. Inside, a woman was bending over a low pallet,
and on the little bed was my wife Fanny. A greyish sheet was drawn over her body to the chin.
I think it was so drawn up as we entered the room. I stared down upon Fanny's calm, white face,
in which there was now a refinement, a pathetic dignity, a something delicate and womanly which
I had not seen there before; not even in the early days, when gentle prettiness had been its
quality.

The thought that flashed through my mind as I stood there was not the sort of thought that
would be associated with such a scene. The buzzing noise was still going on in my head, but
yet I was conscious of a vast silence all about me; and looking down upon my wife's face, I
thought:

'Death has certainly been courteous, considerate, to poor Fanny.'

MANHOOD--ENGLAND: SECOND PERIOD

I

My wife was buried in Kensal Green cemetery, a populous London city of the dead. And that afternoon
I resigned my position on the staff of the Advocate.

I do not think that even at the time I had any definite reason for this step, and I do not
know of any now. I remember Arncliffe remonstrated very kindly with me, spoke of plans he had
in view for me, about which he was unable to enter into detail just then, and strongly urged
me to reconsider the matter. I told him, without much relevance really, that I had buried my
wife that morning; and he, very naturally, said he had not even known I was a married man.

'Look here, Freydon,' he said; 'be guided by me. Take a month's holiday, and then come and
talk to me again.'

This was no doubt both wise and kindly advice, but I merely repeated that I must leave; and,
within a week or two, I did leave, Arncliffe, in the most friendly way, making things easy
for me, and agreeing to take a certain contribution from me once a week. This gave me three
guineas a week, and I was grateful for the arrangement.

'You must let me see something of you occasionally. I'm really sorry to lose you. You know
I've always appreciated your suggestions,' said Arncliffe, when I looked in to bid him good-bye.
He spoke with a friendly sincerity which I valued; because it was a fact that he had, as editor,
adopted and developed a good many suggestions of mine, without apparent acknowledgment, and
after keeping them in his pigeon-holes until, as I thought, he had forgotten their existence,
and come to think the ideas subsequently acted upon were his own.

With funds in hand amounting to something well under twenty pounds, I took lodgings on the
outskirts of Dorking--a bedroom and a sitting-room in the rather pretty cottage of a jobbing
carpenter and joiner named Gilchrist. Mrs. Gilchrist, a wholesome, capable woman, performed
some humble duties in the church close by, in which she made use of a very long-handled feather
duster, and sundry cloths of a blue and white checked pattern. Her husband had a small workshop
in the cottage garden, but his work more often than not took him away from home during the
day. Jasmine and a crimson rambler strayed about the window of my little study, from which
the view of the surrounding hills was delightful. For some days I explored the neighbourhood
assiduously. And then I began to write my fourth book. The third--a volume of short stories
of mean streets, written in the days preceding my marriage--was then passing through the press.

When I first went to Dorking my health was in a very poor way. I imagine I must at the time
have been on the verge of a pretty bad breakdown. The preceding six or eight months had greatly
aggravated my digestive troubles, and I had also suffered a good deal from neuralgia. The constantly
increasing stress of my domestic affairs, superimposed upon steady sedentary work in which
the quest for new ideas was a continuous preoccupation, and combined with the effects of an
irregular and indifferent dietary and lack of air and exercise, had reduced me physically to
a low ebb.

During those last weeks in London, after Fanny's death, I was not conscious of this collapse;
and my first week in Dorking had a curiously stimulating effect upon me. Indeed, I fancy that
week was the saving of me. But at the end of it, after one long day's writing, I took to my
bed with influenza, and remained there for some time, dallying also with bronchitis, incipient
pneumonia, gastritis, and a diphtheritic throat.

Six weeks passed before I left my bedroom, but during only one of those weeks did I fail to
produce my weekly contribution to the Advocate. Everything is gun and
bait for the devil.

One day when Ramirez led him in a beautiful gift bulb in a wicker basket, the lectoral began to enjoy
it without removing the skin. He was a pear of calabaciles by calling Dual turgor. Suddenly,
to drive its bite in the thickest part, made a frightful gesture
and threw the fruit into the corridor, shaking hands and saying: -
Vade retro vade retro!

The enemy had to show in that tight and bulky poma forms of women.

Since then the young man began to live in a sudden concern to conceive
virtue more difficult and experience in all its flesh, quiet until
then, a swarm of instincts that dizzy moment her brain by steam vats
at the winery.

A cold February afternoon, to leave the lesson, and after hearing his teacher read a learned
commentary on the Song of Songs, Ramiro encountered along the pillar Aldonsa of the ladder. She
invited him to climb the tower. A moment later either climbed the steps. Ringer suddenly stopped
and pulled the lantern light to the face of the boy.

Ramiro also stopped, his hand trembling recognized that modern had Sulamita released "twin fawns'
in singing.

There he plucked his virginity, on those dark stairs, where she slept sacred smell of candles and
incense.

When you lift your eyes to apologize for his horrible sin, he found himself face to face with
Ringer figure, that five or six steps up, waited impassively, holding
lit candle in hand.

How long he was there?

Ramiro naturally looked and began to descend, in the shade, feeling the walls, without saying
a word.

Once he walked out with new arrogance.

The breeze that came down the street of death and Life oreaba on his lip a touch unclean and
feverish.

X

At seventeen years, thanks to a precocious development, Ramiro took on a tough and adult. His lofty
brow, and his broad shoulders, imposing, all who spoke to him, treatment ceremony. Now generalized
thinking, seeking the hidden meaning of each appearance, believed to decipher, with youthful
arrogance, the supreme enigmas.

Took too long against the use, the jet black hair and his skin extremely pale, as if the constant
meditation will thin the blood, remember that mysterious whiteness
as the moon sets in the marble.

He, who hoped to find a counselor in the canon of humility, received his word grilled Live ambition.
The new teacher often interrupted their lessons for history, great events of that illustrious lineage
of the Eagle, founded by the champion Sancho de Estrada, come from Asturias, and also nombrábale
admirable warriors, sons of that city, though small, represented in Spain the first seminar
of honor and chivalry. In all Avileses parts are indicated by the
gift of his command and his cruelty in battle.

Sancho Davila surnamed The thunderbolt of war, now served copy to the flamingos.

- Who could give me back my youth and give me a few years of life
graceful and unembarrassed Soldier! - exclaimed the canon.

No he meant that he was sorry for the noble race that had tilted its constellation, no, a thousand
times. Just thought that with a buff jerkin, a shako and a Toledo steel, choosing the districts
as they see fit, have done far more for the sake of Santa Fe Catholic flushing their days tied
up with strings of slander and stupidity canonjil an armchair. Ramiro Confiole, bluntly, and the
meanness of that sordideces stifling existence of sacristy, and said the anger and the unusual
cruelty with which all his colleagues had linked against you when you tried to offer an episcopal
seat.

- The very sly and aliquot - say - feels that only the eagle can not stand and cleave space, will
fly very high, very high.

The eager longing of a miter was now stronger than their virtue and the great sin of his soul.

Dominated by the reverent admiration he professed for his master, and having delivered from the first
day all his heart, Ramiro looked straight path that hand pointing priesthood. I no longer
doubted that the arms race, following the example of their ancestors, could be as useful to God and
Holy Church and in the cloister or in the pulpit. Quickening then decipher the scrolls of her
family aged and read the story of the great Masters of Rome and Spain.

At first, representations of their own future is confused and formed the great old episodes. Amazed
by the reading, came to believe, himself, the hero of the story.

It was on Julius Caesar, the Cid, the Great Captain Hernán Cortés, Don Juan de Austria. To take in
hand The comments, it was he who led cohorts through Gaul, but, on
the Ides of March, more sagacious than the dictator peeping Brutus's
betrayal, and hiding a sword under his robe, entered the Curia and
killed one by one the conspirators.

Defeated the Moors in countless battles, offered to Spain the kingdom of Naples and the rule
of Moctezuma, and finally standing on the castle an unlikely vessel, destroying forever all the
Turkish fleet at Lepanto new prodigious your imagination dreamed as prints.

The result was he came to believe God chose to continue the tradition
of the glories unforgettable.

Deleted from the mental field at medium, so neat, so patient. Everything sudden and heroic was
not left him unmoved, feeling self-confidence, a certainty achieving absolute hit the highest
honors and become, in a short time, a of the first champions of the Catholic Faith on earth.

One
afternoon, sitting on a rock in the ravine that runs between the Convento de la Encarnación and the
walls of the city, Ramiro, his thoughts kept rolling.

He exalted his soul single site, making listening in their illusion,
war cries, sighs ecstasy.

Joyous wet shining gold color on the hills. It had rained until three afternoon, and the storm
moved away to the nascent large clear opening of ethereal pearl. Wayward tuft of golden and
purple clouds stretched over the city, retaining yet the movement
of the blast had twisted.

The rough walls reflected a yellowness amazing, that seemed born
of itself.

We talked with emphasis in those days, of a possible uprising of all
the Moors Spain, aided by the Turks.

In some palaces in the city were held frequently meetings, where
they exchanged news and views discussed.

The house of M. de la Hoz era to the present, every Wednesday and
Sunday, a swarm of church and nobles.

His campaign and his known animosity Alpujarra against false converts
said, from the Initially, Don Inigo as a head assembly.

Ramiro thought now if everything not arise the occasion to start its popularity.

It took two craftsmen. The youth officers realized they were the dust
stone whitewashed stone hands.

They came talking about food and wages:

- "Seeing that no one was shaking, I stood like a pine tree to the master, and I said, with the salary
he gave us we could not fill the pot to ours, and that with bacon soup and base crust of a loaf
which he took, we would dry the substance.

- What do you say?

- He replied: ill monks be you, rascal.

Know that you would do die of envy many bishops.

- He said that?

- Cabal.

- Patience, Martin.

Ramiro shook his head in a gesture of anger.

He spent a Franciscan monk riding a gray colt. Santa gladness shone
in his face.

Her bare leg showing below hairy sackcloth. Punished his horse with a piece of bardaguera. The
good friar cared a fig the appearance of your figure ...

Ramiro
considered the strength of that so superior that made fun of all the
vanities man.

Arrive later saw an old, slender, hooked nose, dark complexion, abstracted gaze. His ragged black clothes
shivered in the breeze like a book burning.

He walked slowly hitting the ground with his cane. Despite that aspect of misery, had both arms adorned
with bracelets of alchemy, and a double string of beads, in imitation
turquoise, fell on his chest.

Arriving with Ramiro, Miron straight, both hands supporting the staff. The young man took a
coin to give it. But the woman asked:

- "Are you muslim or castellanuelo?

- Cristiano old, by the grace of God - Ramiro said.

The woman refused alms, and stretching his arm

- I come to desengañarvos agora, descreyentes, servers of idols - ominous voice cried and ye
shall fatal .-- Hagar and his fiyo is escribto, and with them the joy anger. There will be
no whom you water the plain, nor any dominion over the plow, and who knows how to plant and
harvest, or adobe whom you smell fine. The round, who knows manejallo? Oh, those of Islam, are
with agrillonadas hands, but the sufrencia is good luck. Know that paradise is promised the
suffering and will be honored at stands high and advantaged!

Ramiro could not overcome and taught him the palm to predict your destination.

- Your jofor, you jofor! - Stammered the Moorish.

But scarcely had he taken in his hand that thin and energetic, soltola suddenly.

Ramiro, returning instinctively head, found himself with the figure of the canon that back of the
Incarnation, had recognized and approached.

- Chiromanciam habemus - lectoral cried.

Ramiro smiled. The canon then took a silver coin and handed it to the woman. The Moorish took
it and walked away shaking slowly. A moment later, teacher and pupil heard the rumble of the
coin on the pebbles.

So, back to the city in search of the Puerta del Adaja, Canon composed the following sentence:

-
You see, my son, the love we have this race of Ishmael. Here was a miserable old they prefer to continue
moaning, like a hungry wolf on the road, rather than accept our alms. Appear to have become,
and are as Moors and Africa. Van and dragged the hair to learn the doctrine, and only makes them
afraid to take their children to our churches for baptism. But ansi arriving home, they gnaw
to the fontanel a piece of pileup or the edge of a knife, followed by washing in neatly to quitalles
until the last of the sacramental chrism.

Then again bautizalles his way, with Moorish names are secret until death. Do not eat beef never
any that have not been beheaded by infidel hands, directing the animal's
head toward the East, to Mecca, towards the Qibla, as they themselves
are expressed.

Do not drink wine or taste pork to distinguish it from us, and behind closed doors, watch your Lent
and all the rites their evil cult. I have seen in the background of their homes in Andalusia,
marble bathrooms or tiles, where men are immersed and perfume as prostitutes, as usual infidel
and lascivious. The boys stun the streets of the suburb with its wild uproar, and they are all
given the timbrel, the bagpipe, the jingles, the lewd entertainment of dance and rides that corrupt
fonts and wall units and soften your mood.

He paused to mount the chest, then spit stoutly that there was, continued:

- In public places make compliance to the Holy Cross, of course, but
when they are no witness to any chapel or shrine, make you suffer
all kinds of taunts.

Myself I've caught near Talavera something horrible. Several of these damn dogs had gone to cut wood
to a forest edge.

One of them, returning, had to download her belly, and having made a cross of two oak chips,
the key straight in the filth, and let them fall. I was the first Christian, no doubt, that he
managed to pass by that site. Seeing my dear cross in such a state, I ran by her, and kneeled
down between the root of an oak I started adoralla. Consérvola still jealously, for the violence
they suffered, as if it were made bones of a martyr in Rome.

The sun had just set. The hills of western and brown trimmed short profile of the horizon of fire.
Master and disciple reached the northeast corner of the wall and turned towards the south. Down,
right, between the dark rocks, Adaja water off a fiery golden glow. The churches had finished
playing prayers, and the next bell in the chapel of San Segundo still had a buzz sleepy.

- What to do - went on to say the canon - this enemy home as often forgiven? What to do with this
treacherous servant, that day approaches us with a smile on the teeth, while night haunts our
sleep with his hand clenched on curved dagger? Your grandfather, Ramiro I said, and nobody
knows how it these things, that these carriers and porters Moors who encounter on the road
sleeping in the sun with their jugs, take and bring seditious messages of Aragon and Granada Granada
Aragon, Castilla past, and who no longer ignore that the plot has
all the Moors from the kingdom.

The light was fading in the sky, but the canon harangued increasingly exalted, as if rehearsed,
in the solitude of the road, solemn speech to try to pronounce in any assembly.

- Some say that the expulsion of the Moors from Spain would bring
ruin.

Greed modern Lords - said this time .-- Ah! already counted those very clear that men of old
preferred a grain of honors all full of piggy banks and Jewish Moor. Hogan, nobles of Aragon
are the most vicious and lawyers after the fact these dogs infidels,
and full Castilla is traditional Christian, Moorish enamored with
money, who follow his example.

They think the children of Muhammad would be the profit and tasty live, and their lands malignant
herb cover. This same; in the city of the Loyalists, Knights of Saints, most of the council
is against the expulsion. What a lot - he added, lowering his voice and speaking almost in
the ear of youth, - the Inquisition, the Inquisition, receives fifty thousand drams per year of
the communities of Aragon?

Addressing the illusory character, which he saw encouraged, no doubt, in the theater of his
imagination, continued:

- You say that the expulsion reduced to less than half the wealth of the kingdom? Better, greedy
lords. What more worthy and healthy state for a Christian republic that poverty? Superfluous
goods bring freedom and greed, just as overflowing water breeding vermin and toads unclean
lust and courage triumphs lose primitive rudeness the pair of swords that are tuned like pins
and are covered with velvet and precious stones not to frighten the ladies in the stands. Livy
claims that the great prosperity and abundance Rome, earned him all evil, and for this reason the
Romans came to extremes vice. If we consult Juvenal - said again, - he declares to us that
there is no lineage of evil the Romans did not fall since leaving poverty. Was it the people opulent
of Israel, the people of God? If we are to live with the opinion, says our Seneca, never be rich,
whether with nature, will never be poor. I know that I've never seen borrow the usurers to buy olives,
bread and cheese. I always saw that one it looks for horses the other for galas, the other
for prostitutes. Return, then congratulations, those golden age, or centuries of acorns, as
they are called. Stop this crazy ride floats and these lackeys parades, drunk with vanity
and wine, both stolen his master. Reborn the old virtues severe heap table, the rich devotion,
and that the decline of the garment make us better reach the healthy
meat openness of the wind.

Was over and spat several times.

They entered the city through the Puerta del Adaja. The streets were
full of leaden gloom and trembling. Some still life lit their candles
and poured over the causeway gates dull orange glow. An old man sitting
at a window, attached to the temple gate, looked at the sky praying
the rosary. In another window, without light, was a young man who
prayed. His face ashen hue took the time and his pupil fosforescía
strangely.

Stillness as if to have been encouraged to uncover the
deepest silo of his conscience, the lectoral, who had been terminated
his speech, broke again, though in a tone less oratory and sweeter:

-
The only compassionate spirit we empleallo, my son, on private occasions
and minute of life, as mandated by the Gospel law. Our own instinct
gives us a great education when we do save a fly drowning in a glass
and sometimes puts in our hand twisted canvas and kill us makes hundreds
on the table and the wall. Extend that his alms to the beggar, while
carrying a Koran in his hand, he's an orphan Pity and the widow, even
cursed sect of Mahomet gives drink to the thirsty muslim passing,
or ask your jar to the infidel, like Jesus to the Samaritan woman,
nothing say, that all he himself taught this gospel, which is the
law individually and daily bread, but sounded the hour big, righteous,
no fuss know the designs meet the Lord, because there other law, my
son - added show of hands and voice as an ancient prophet, - other
law elderly, law of peoples, is another testament, where God same;
with its own word the sentencing of the wicked, saying to Moses: "You'll
put my knife to please throat of the Amorites, the Canaanites, the
Perizzite, the Hittites, the Hivite, the Jebusites to quitalles life
", adding:" and do not be kind to them, "misereberis nec earum. And
also, by the prophet Samuel, Saul ordered him to tell him to destroy
the Amalekites, not forgive men, neither women nor children were milk
though, so no trace none of them or their estates. We must also, as
an act of atonement, capping the roots of our soil this plant poisonous.
Let's not be forgotten that we, in modern times, the people of God,
as it was in ancient Israel. Nothing should surprise us that people
semi-barbarous as England, Germany, Bohemia, Hungary contamination,
but do as we have to tolerate us, whom God turns away his confidence,
the idolatrous and blasphemous servant our own heritage? Whether the
expulsion everlasting, and the total destruction, if If requested,
making them a Sicilian Vesper, before you do them with us Heaven commands
us to clear finish the work of purification.

- The fear of blood,
my son - went on to say the canon - is a low instinct man. Jehovah
is frightened of vice, wickedness, a single sin, but not blood justly
discharged. Blood is needed watering every good germination, and the
Lord running makes your time with the same gentleness that runs the
clouds over the furrows. Human lives are not worth but for what it
is for their sacrifice, as grains of incense. His sunny face and bright blue eyes contained no more
evidence of care or anxiety than one sees in the face of a healthy boy of twelve.

'Here is a man,' I thought, 'peculiarly rich in everything that I lack; and all his life long
he has been equally rich in his possession of everything I have lacked. And now he is going
to marry Cynthia Lane. The rest seems natural enough, but not this.'

As yet I had little enough of evidence on which to base conclusions. But, as I saw it, Charles
Barthrop was a handsome and materially well-endowed young animal, whose work was company-promoting,
and whose diversions hardly took him beyond football and the Gaiety Theatre. I dare say it
was partly because he was so refulgently well-dressed that I assumed him devoid of intellect.
As a fact, my assumption was not very wide of the mark.

'And Cynthia,' I thought, 'has a mind and a soul. She is mind and soul encased, as it happens,
in a beautiful body. She is no more a mate for him than a great poet would be mate for a handsome
fishwife; an Elizabeth Barrett Browning for a champion pugilist.'

It was natural that, during that Saturday evening and the following day, conversation between
Lane and myself should turn more than once towards his sister Cynthia and her forthcoming marriage,
which, I understood, was to take place within a few weeks at St. Margaret's, Westminster. We
had become fairly intimate of late, Lane and myself, and the introduction to various members
of his family seemed to have made us much more intimate.

'You have made no end of an impression on Miss Cynthia,' he said pleasantly on the Saturday
evening. 'She was always the literary and artistic member of the sisterhood. She gave me special
instructions to bring you along in time for some tea to-morrow, and she means to force you
out of your hermitage while she is at Deene Place, so I warn you. Seriously, I think, it may
be good for you. You will be sure to meet some decent people there, who will be worth knowing,
not only just now, but when Cynthia is married and set up in Sloane Street. Barthrop has taken
a house there, you know.'

With a duplicity not very creditable to me, I pretended thoughtful agreement. A brother can
tell one a good deal without putting his information into plain words. I gathered from our
talk then, and on the following day, that the Lane family occupied the difficult position of
people who have, as it were, been born to greater riches than they possess. Of them more had
always been expected, socially, than their straitened means permitted. The pinch had been a
very real one of late years, towards the end of the grand struggle which their parents had
passed through in educating and launching a family of two sons and five daughters. It was easy
to gather that good marriages were very necessary for those five daughters, of whom Cynthia
was the first-born. I even gathered that, a year or two earlier, there had been scenes and
grave anxiety over a preference which Cynthia had shown for a painter, poor as a church mouse,
who, very considerately, had proceeded to die of a fever in Southern Italy. Mrs. Lane had,
to a large extent, arranged the forthcoming marriage with Charles Barthrop, I think. In the
interests of the whole family Cynthia had been 'sensible'; she had been brought to see reason.

'And, mind you,' said Lane, 'I do think Barthrop is an excellent chap, you know. Oh, yes; he's
quite a cut above your average city man. And a kinder-hearted chap you never met. The pater
swears by him.'

I gathered that 'the pater' had been given the most useful information and guidance in financial
matters by this Apollo of Throgmorton Street.

'He's modest, too,' continued Lane, 'which is unusual in his type, I think. He told me his
favourite reading was detective stories, outside the sporting and financial news, of course;
but he has the greatest respect for Cynthia's literary tastes-- You know she has published
some verse? Yes. Not in book form, but in some of the better magazines. Oh, yes, Barthrop's
a good chap: simple-minded, a shade gross, too, perhaps, in some ways. These chaps in the city
do themselves too well, I think. But quite a good chap, and sure to make an excellent husband.
I fancy his kind do, you know--no tension, no fret, no introspection.'

Again I made signs of agreement which were not strictly honest.

On Sunday afternoon we both drank our tea under the copper beeches at Deene Place. I deliberately
monopolised Cynthia's attention as long as I possibly could, and then devoted myself to the
cold-blooded study of the man she was to marry. I found him very good-natured, gifted with
abundant high spirits, agreeably modest, and, as it seemed to me, intellectually about on a
par with a race-horse or a handsome St. Bernard dog.

'Cynthia tells me we are to bully you into coming out of your hermitage,' he said to me with
a sunny smile. 'A good idea, too, you know. After all, being a recluse can't be good for one's
health; and I suppose if a man isn't fit, it tells--er--even in literary work, doesn't it?'

I felt towards him as one feels towards some bright, handsome schoolboy. And yet, in many ways,
I doubt not he had more of wisdom than I had. I had spoken to Cynthia of Leith Hill, and she
had said that, when staying at Deene Place, she walked almost every day either on the hill
or the common. Upon that I had relinquished her attention with a fair grace.

Of course, I was entirely unused to the amenities of society. I used no subterfuges, and made
no attempt to disguise my interest in Cynthia, or to pretend to other interests. I dare say
my directness was smiled upon, as part of the eccentricity of these literary people; one of
Ernest's friends, quite a recluse, and so forth. I gathered as much a little later on.

Looking back upon it I must suppose that my conduct during the next week or so would be condemned
by most right-thinking people as ungentlemanly and even dishonourable. I have no inclination
to defend it; and I could not affirm that, at the time, I loved honour more than Cynthia Lane.
To speak the naked truth, I believe I would have committed forgery, if by doing so I could
have won Cynthia for my wife. The one and only way in which I showed any discretion (and that,
not from any moral scruple, but purely as a matter of tactics) was in withholding any open
declaration to Cynthia herself.

My feeling was that my chance of a life's happiness was confined to the cruelly short period
of a week or two. There was no time for taking risks. There must be no refusals. I must use
my time, every day of it, I thought, in the effort to win her heart; and trust to the very
end to win her consent. I availed myself fully of my advantage in living in Dorking while my
rival spent his days in London. The obstacles in my path were such as to justify me in grasping
every possible advantage within reach, I told myself. Every day we met. Every day I walked
and talked with Cynthia. Every day love possessed me more utterly. And, I believe I may say
it, every day Cynthia drew nearer to me. No word did I breathe of marriage; that which was
arranged, or that which I desired. It seemed to me that every available moment must be given
to the moulding of her heart, to preparation for the last crucial test, when I should ask her
to sacrifice everything, and cross the Channel and the Rubicon with me.

There is no need for me to burke the words. Cynthia did love me when she left Dorking for her
parents' house in London; not, perhaps, with the absorbing passion she had inspired in me;
yet well enough, as I was assured, to face social disaster and a break with her family, in
order that she might entrust her life to me.

'Cynthia,' I said, at the end of that last walk, 'London is not to rob me of you? Promise me!'

'If you call me, I will come,' she said, looking at me through tears, and well I knew that
perfect truth shone in those dear eyes.

Regarding this as the most serious undertaking of my life, I had endeavoured to overlook nothing.
I had obtained a marriage licence. A London registrar's office was to serve our purpose. I
had previously secured a temporary lodging in London, and now went there with my luggage. Love
did not blind me to practical considerations. While Cynthia was still in Dorking I had no time
to spare. Now that she was entangled in her own home among last preparations for the wedding
that was not to be, I turned my attention to matters affecting her future life with me.

Three afternoon appointments I kept with Arncliffe in the Advocate office. When I left him
after our third talk, I was definitely re-engaged as a member of his staff, at a salary of
six hundred pounds per annum, having promised to take up my duties with him in one month from
that date. Every nerve in my body had been keyed to the attainment of this result, and I was
grateful, and not a little flattered by its achievement. I was still a poor man; but this salary,
with the few hundred pounds I might hope to add to it in a year, by means of independent literary
work, would at all events mean that Cynthia need not face actual discomfort in her life with
me. Further, I sincerely believed (and may very well have been correct in this) that her influence
upon me would enlarge the scope and appeal of my literary work. I realised clearly that my
beautiful lady-love had very much to give me. My life till then had not entirely lacked culture
or intellectuality. But it emphatically had lacked that grace, that element of gentle fineness
and delicacy which Cynthia would give it.

Cynthia, who in giving me herself would give all that I desired which my life had lacked, should
come to me empty-handed, I thought. I did not want her to borrow from out the life which for
my sake she was relinquishing. On the day before that fixed upon for the wedding at St. Margaret's,
she should come to me in the park, near her home. There would be quite another sort of wedding,
and by the evening train we would leave for the Continent. Every detail was arranged for. We
met on the afternoon of the preceding day. I put my whole fate to the test, and Cynthia never
wavered. We arranged to meet at two o'clock next day.

On the morning itself, just before noon, I hurried out from my lodging upon a final errand,
intending to change my clothes and lock my bags, upon my return, within half an hour. My papers
were in the pockets of the clothes I intended to wear, and a supply of money was left locked
in my handbag. The most important moment of my life was at hand, and, as I walked down the
crowded Strand into Fleet Street, I was conscious of such a measure of exaltation as I had
never known before that day.

And then, for the second time in my life, brute force intervened, and made utter havoc of all
my plans and prospects. Crossing Fleet Street, close to Chancery Lane, the pole of an omnibus
struck my shoulder and flung me several yards along the road. The driver of a hansom cab shouted
aloud as he jerked his horse to its haunches to avoid running over me. And in that moment,
pawing wildly, the horse struck the back of my head with one of his fore feet.

For the second time in my life I lay in a hospital, suffering from concussion of the brain.
Almost twelve hours passed before I first regained consciousness, and the morning of the following
day was well advanced before I was able to inform the hospital authorities of my identity.
No papers, nothing but a handful of silver, had been found in my pockets.

At eleven o'clock that morning there was solemnised at St. Margaret's Church the marriage of
Cynthia and Charles Barthrop.

'If you call, I will come.'

But I had not called. I had even left Cynthia to pace to and fro through an afternoon in the
park; at that most critical juncture in both our lives I had failed her. In a brief letter,
posted to an address given me by her brother, I acquainted Cynthia with the facts of my accident,
and nothing more than the facts.

In ten days I was out of the hospital; and Cynthia, another man's wife, was in Norway.

IV

I dare say no place would have looked very attractive to me when I came out from that hospital;
but London and my lodging in it did seem past all bearing unattractive. The Dorking lodging
had been definitely relinquished, and in any case I had no wish now to see Dorking, Leith Hill,
or the common.

Knowing practically nothing of my native land outside its capital, I packed a small bag at
my lodging, and walked to the nearest large railway station, which happened to be Paddington.
Arrived there, I spent some dull moments in staring at way-bills, and finally took a ticket
at a venture for Salisbury. There I found a quiet lodging, and spent the evening in idly wandering
about the cathedral close.

The next day found me tramping over short turf--turf more ancient than the cathedral--in the
neighbourhood of Stonehenge. And so I spent the better part of a fortnight, greatly to the
benefit I dare say of my bodily health. I shall always love the tiny hamlets of that sun and
wind-washed countryside, between Warminster, Andover, Stockbridge, and Salisbury. Yet always
they will be associated in my mind with a bowing down sense of loneliness, of empty, unredeemed
sadness, and of irretrievable loss. I cannot pretend that I experienced any sense of remorse
or penitence, where my abortive attempt to win another man's bride was concerned. I had no
such feeling. But, discreditable as that fact may be, it did not make the aching sorrow that
possessed me any the less real.

I was conscious of no remorse, and yet, God knows my state of mind was humble enough, though
too sombre and despairing to be called resigned. I believe that in the retrospect my loss seemed
more, a great deal more to me, than just a lover's loss; though upon that score alone I was
smitten to the very dust. It was rather as though, at the one blow, I had lost my heart's desire
and a fortune and a position in the world; or, at least, that these had been snatched from
my grasp in the moment of becoming mine.

I do not think I could ever explain this to any one else; since I suppose that in the monetary
sense the rupture of my plans left me the better off. But I, who had always been something
of an outlier in the social sense, an unplaced wanderer bearing the badge of no particular
caste, I had grown in some way to feel that marriage with Cynthia would in this sense bring
me to an anchorage, and admit me to a definite place of my own in the complex world of London.
The idea was not wholly unreasonable. I had lived very rapidly in those few critical weeks.
Years of hope, endeavour, determination, and emotional experience, I had crowded into my last
days in Dorking. And through it all I had been upheld and exalted by a pervasive conviction
(which I apprehend is not part of the ordinary lover's capital) that now, at length, I was
to know peace, rest, content; the calm, glad realisation of all the vague yearnings and strivings
which had spurred me to strenuousness, to unceasing effort, all my life long.

Cynthia had been the object of my love, of my passionate adoration, indeed. But she had also
been a great deal more. When she had bowed her beautiful head to my wooing, when she had promised
that upon my call she would come, she had (all unconsciously, of course) become more than my
beloved. She became for me the actual embodiment, the incarnate end, aim, and reward of all
the strivings of my lonely life, from the night of my flight from St. Peter's Orphanage down
to that very day. In my rapt contemplation of her, of the personality which enthralled me far,
far more than her beautiful person could, I smiled over recollection of my bitter struggles
in London slums, of the heart-racking anxiety and grinding humiliation of life with poor Fanny.
I smiled happily at that squalid vista as at some trifling inconvenience by the way, too small
to be remembered as an obstacle in my path toward the all-sufficing and radiant peace of union
with Cynthia.

'Now I see why all my life has been worth while,' I told myself on the eve of the clumsy, brutal
blow of Fate's hand that had for ever robbed me of Cynthia.

In the living, the end had sometimes seemed too hopelessly far off to justify the wearing strain
of the means. There had been so little refreshment by the way. But with Cynthia's promise there
had come to me an all-embracing certainty that my whole life had been justified; that the end
and reward of all my struggles was actually in my hands; that I now had arrived, and was about
to step definitely out from the ranks of the striving, unsatisfied, hungry outliers, into the
serene company of those whose faces shine with the light of assured happiness; of those who
fight and struggle no longer; for the reason that they have found their allotted place in life,
and are at anchor within the haven of their ambitions.

I may have been very greatly to blame in my passionate wooing of another man's affianced wife;
but, at least, I believe that my loss of Cynthia was a far greater and more crushing loss for
me than the loss of any woman could possibly have been for Charles Barthrop. For me, she had
stood for all life held that was desirable--the sum and plexus of my aims. For Barthrop there
were his keenly relished sports and pastimes, his host of friends, his family, his luxurious
and well-defined place in the world--not to mention the city of London.

V

When I left the spacious purlieus of Salisbury, it was to engage chambers--bedroom, sitting-room,
and bathroom--in a remodelled adjunct to one of the Inns of Court. Here my arrangement was
that a simple breakfast should be served to me each day in my sitting-room, and that I was
free to obtain my other meals wherever I might choose. Thus provided for in the matter of a
place of residence, I resumed the discarded journalistic life, as a member of the Advocate's
editorial staff, in accordance with the engagement entered into with Arncliffe, when I believed
I had been arranging to secure an income for Cynthia and myself.

Before renting these rooms I had called upon Sidney Heron, and invited him to share a set of
chambers with me.

'No,' he said, in his blunt way, 'I'd rather keep you as a friend.'

I dare say he was right; and, in any case, he had a fancy for living at a good distance from
the centre of the town; whereas my own inclination was to avoid the town altogether, if that
might be, and failing this to have one's sanctuary right in the centre of it. My chambers were
within five minutes' walk of the Advocate office, and not much more than half that distance
from the Thames Embankment--a spot which interested me as much as its lively neighbour, the
Strand, irritated and worried me. An uneasy, shoddy street I thought the Strand, full of insistent
tawdriness and of broken-spirited folk whose wretchedness had something in it more despicable
than pitiable. Save for its occasional gaping rustics (whom I thought sadly misguided to be
there at all) I cordially hated the Strand. But the Embankment I regarded as one of the most
romantic thoroughfares in London; and many a score of articles (which brought me money) do
I owe to the inspiration of that broad, darkling, river-skirted road, and the queer human flotsam
and jetsam one may meet with there.

Among the direct results of Cynthia Lane's influence, I must place my interest in politics.
I had hardly realised that women had any concern with politics until I met Cynthia. She was
in no sense a politician, but she followed the political news of the day with the same bright
and illuminating intelligence which she brought to bear upon all the affairs of her life; and
her attitude toward them was informed by a fine patriotism, at once reasoning and ardent. Chance
phrases from her lips had opened my eyes to the existence of a love for England, for our flag,
and race, such as I had not dreamed of till that time.

We spoke once or twice of my Australian experiences. And here again Cynthia's patriotism suggested
whole avenues of unsuspected thought and feeling to me. It was Cynthia who introduced to my
mind the conception of the British Empire, and our race, as a single family, having many branching
offshoots. I do not mean that Cynthia supplied facts or theories hitherto unknown to me. But
I do mean that her woman's mind first made me feel these things, intimately and personally,
as people feel the joys and sorrows of members of their own households.

As a result I looked now with changed eyes upon many things. Before, I had loathed and detested
the slums of London, and the vicious, ugly squalor of the lives of many of their inhabitants;
hated them with the bitterness of one who has been made to feel their poison in his own veins.
There had been far more of loathing than of pity or sorrow in my attitude toward the canker
at London's heart. Gradually, now, because of the insight I had had into Cynthia's love of
England, my view became more kindly. I looked upon the canker less with hatred, and more with
the feeling one might have regarding some horrible and malignant disease in a son or a daughter,
a brother or a sister. And, too, with more of a sense of responsibility and of shame.

So, from a lofty and quite ignorant scorn of things so essentially mundane, I grew to take
an understanding interest in current politics, and more particularly in their wider aspects,
as touching not England alone but all British lands and people. I obtained a press pass from
Arncliffe, and attended an important debate in the House of Commons, subsequently recording
my impressions, in the form of an article by an Outsider, from Australia. Journalistically,
that article was a rather striking success; and I began to attend the House frequently, and
to write more or less regular political impressions for the Advocate.

For several years my interest in these matters continued to be progressive. (Three volumes
of a political or quasi-political and sociological character have appeared under my name.)
I am grateful for that interest, because it gave me some additional hold upon life, at a time
when such anchorage as I had had seemed to have been wrested from me.

There was a quite considerable period--five or six years, at least, I think--during which political
work tended to broaden my mind, widen my sympathies, and enhance my esteem for a number of
my contemporaries. Beyond that point I am afraid no good came to me from the study of politics;
from which fact it is probably safe to assume that any influence I exercised ceased to be beneficial.
For a time it had, I think, been helpful in its small way. That was while faith remained in me.

I remember conceiving a warm respect for a number of men engaged in political work as writers,
organisers, and speakers. I admired these men for the fervour with which they appeared to devote
their lives to the service of political ends. I even derived from my conception of their enthusiasm,
strong, almost emotional interest in certain political issues, tendencies, and developments.
Later, as I learned to know the men and their work better, came rather painful disillusionment.
We differed fundamentally, it seemed, these eloquent fellows and myself. He pulled his face towards the place where he must be the head of the lady and
said very softly:

- Joaquina Joaquina.

He did not wake.

- Joaquina Joaquina - repeated.

Nor did any movement. Then gently shook his shoulder, calling it again.

The

lady screamed and woke up terrified.

- Jesus! Who is it? Who goes?

- Do not worry, me - he said weakly the estate.

- Who?

Who? - Replied the lady, with signs of terror in his voice, leaning against the wall.

- I, am Álvaro ... Mira - said in a trembling voice, - I know you've come to make friends ... You
did well ... Forget it all, start a new life ...

The lady did not respond. Tucked against the wall, heard his breathing still longing for shock.

-
I made superhuman efforts to forget - continued with the same voice trembling off by emotion
- but they were useless ... You're stuck with iron and fire in my chest ... You have been my first,
my only love in this world ... I have done much damage, a lot! but even were to make me a
thousand times more, will not be erased from my soul, that heady moments that I owe you ... I love
you, yes, I love, I adore you!

... Although call me a coward, unworthy, I will repeat to face the
world ... If you knew how I suffered!

It was not my dignity, my pride destroyed what made me suffer ... My heart is what has been
... What a disappointment! What a sadness so deep!

It seemed as if a cold hand gently gather me the guts ... But it's all over ... Is not that already
happened?

... We begin to love again, like that you later in my arms for the
first time in a street tree in the gardens Aranjuez ...

The same
silence from Joaquin.

- Answer me ... Have I scared, sweetheart?

Forgive me ... Why do not you come after that was the cure? ... You thought I was going to throw
you?

... No, my precious ... no ... I love you, I adore ...

At the same time, extending his hands, ran with his wife, grabbed her and took her lips with
enthusiasm. The lady promptly withdrew.

D. Alvaro was overwhelmed.

- Why did you withdraw your hand? ... Do not you tend to me mine,
and I'm offended?

... Have not you been be reconciled with me?

...

- Yes, yes, Álvaro - "she murmured .-- A so I came ... You scared me ...

- Forgive, Joaquina ... If you knew what happiness causes me hear your voice! I just never now,
And ever! hear her again. Will you be my wife? "- He added, lowering his voice, leaning to
bring the mouth to the face of the lady .-- Leave me a site next to you, beautiful ... Let
me be a happy night ...

- No, Álvaro, not now - gossip again tomorrow .-- unfaithful wife
... Let me, I am very tired ... Let me see you tomorrow ...

- Do
not bother.

I encircle you can and sleep as quiet ...

- No, now can not be ... Morning.

- Why not?

Will not you be my girl?

Do not want to be happy again, as in those early months of our marriage?

- Yes, I want ... But now I am very nervous ... I want to stay alone ... Tomorrow is another
day, and I promise to be yours ... Here's my hand ... Go to sleep, Álvaro ... Until tomorrow.

Montesinos
sought in the darkness that pretty little hand, she knew so well, and heels pressed against his
lips, devoured it with kisses.

Joaquina abandoned in his possession, After waiting for leave.

Soltola, in effect, but it was to throw her arms neck and pressed against his chest, crazy,
lost love, crushing her lips with kisses brutal, frantic. The lady struggled fiercely to free
herself, and she did, with staggered her husband a shove.

- I told you I would not, want not! - Angry voice shouted .-- If you ever touch me I'm naked
as I leave these streets ... Go! Go!

D. Alvaro became glued to the ground by the shock. Were not his words that left him cold, horror,
was that voice sharp as a knife blade, reaching to depths chest.

- Go! Go away - she repeated further raising the cry.

At that time no one thought crossed, by the brain of primogeniture:
all faculties were wiped out, broken by the shock and horror of the
coup.

No one felt more alive longing impression, as if he had fallen from somewhere very high and was
still air. The world disappeared in the darkness, nothing existed in the darkness enveloped
him, even his thoughts. There remained a strident voice, fatal and a great pain, eternal pain.

- Go! Go!

Bumping into furniture, jumping as if it escapes a disaster, left
that stay.

Found on the stairs clutching tightly to the handrails to avoid falling. There stopped and tried
to coordinate their ideas. Why running? What had happened? No reason was given that sudden flight.
He tried to turn and enter back into the residence of his wife and enter into explanations, but
his legs refused to obey. An instinctive horror, as if before a black hole and deep, he was arrested.
Advanced, with both hands clutching the railing, and came to his room. Hurricane, streaming
through the open window, had dominion over him, the papers were flying, the furniture that
was holding were wet. Her hands came across the desk chair and sat down without even trying
to find matches or close the window. It remained motionless, his eyes wide open in the dark, without
feeling the cold that penetrated to the bone or water showers bathed him and off the head, unable
to determine if the rumor that deafened and I was really dizzy wave or sounding only in his
brain.

So he was surprised the light of day, a sad day and dirty, like almost
all winter in rocks.

Alzose the end like a sleepwalker, entered the bedroom and flopped
in bed.

Ramiro could not wake him at nine o'clock for breakfast. It was a dream invincible annihilation,
like death. He slept in absolute immobility, eyes curved and densely
pale face.

When three o'clock in the afternoon he went to the profound lethargy,
knew without any wonder that his wife had left in the care of Lancia.

VII

After venting their anger Osuna's daughter, followed by Quadrant down
the street, laughing nervously for some time yet.

But that faded after laugh. He felt an uneasiness strange, some leeway
made his legs falter.

He paused a moment: he attacked wishes to turn back and spy on the
couple who left there in the Field of fainting.

The fear of being noticed stopped her. Although vague, it also gave account of the singular and reprehensible
behavior. Why had he done that? Who was she to spy footsteps of his confessor, let alone reprimand?
His defiance was so alive, however, that not allowed to repent.

His mouth was dry, her cheeks were burning. He walked hurriedly and went to the dock. I was
already alone.

The sea breeze cooled it a bit. Felt, yet so busy he did not want
to go home: I needed to talk, distracted.

Go to Ms Eloisa house and dine there as usual.

Just going to put the couple at the table when she arrived. They were accompanied by P. Norberto,
which meant that he had calluses.

- What stifled come, child! - Dona Eloisa said.

- Do not you know ...? I come home alone from Ms Trinidad ... I come to dinner with you ...
But do me the favor of sending a message to dad.

She tried to appear calm and cheerful.

- So alone, eh? Solita at eight in the evening - said D. Martin jokingly.

- Oh, if you knew what was coming hectic! ... So few people walking down the street. At a time
I found myself alone, I ran until I found some women.

- What? Did you fear who took it for one of those pigeons here Fr Norberto hunting with loop?
- turned to say D. Martin penthouse barracks humor.

The girl blushed to the ears. Doña Eloisa severe glanced at her husband.

- Come on, do not start barbarize, Martin.

- Lord, I do not speak only of the possibility of a mistake! - Invalid
replied, laughing .-- Y if not, tell me Fr Norberto if there is much
difference in figure between a lady and these girlfriends theirs.

-
They are friends of mine, D. Martin - laughing graciously replied
the good priest, - are sheep misguided ...

- But you do not throw
stones to return to the fold, but kisses ...

- Oh! Oh! D. Martin!

Good old D. Norbert, the chaplain and organist of the parish, too
modest to aspire to make triumphant virtue and faith among the upper
classes, was dedicated with enthusiasm had long to start the service
to these poor women who fall into it the most often by poverty.

Was introduced into the filthy dwellings they occupy, catechized making titanic efforts of oratory
that put red as a tomato and forced him to coughing and spitting
in a way awesome.

And when Bossuet art produced no effect, appealed money. He was a pious bribery where he had
spent the short flow inherited from their parents and it also took most of their pay. He had managed
to repentance various sinners, which used to lead to some asylum or convent established for
them in Valladolid, by covering it, of course, travel expenses, installation, etc. But in return
of these triumphs experienced the good chaplain horrible disappointment. Often beautiful was
contrite sinners, he drew all the rooms and concluded that they could laugh telling him and
the disappointment of the villa. But do not faint in his work. I was laughing test and failures.
Some who began deceiving, had finished repenting sincerely. The dream of D. Norberto Peñascosa was
found in a convent to repent. To achieve would be able to go begging throughout the province,
working as a bracero himself in the building, to give up eating tripe for the rest of his life.

In
the village everyone knew that their hobby. Most taunted her. There was no one believed not
entitled to give his little joke about particular more or less heavy, according to education of the
individual. But, much as they were, never saw him angry or give even signs of impatience. Kindly
laughed away or covered their ears. No no doubt, though some appear, their good intention and
complete disinterest that worked on this issue.

These sluts who deceived him, dared not utter slander, and if any had, soon was categorically
denied by their partners.

- Martin, I pray to God I do not rave! - Anguished said Ms Eloisa.

- Women mystics speak of kisses.

- Yes, Ms. Eloisa - was quick to say D. Norberto, - her husband wants to refer to the media I
need to use soft to convince those fuckers.

D. Martin, realizing it had gone too far, he nodded, but not a wink
expressive conduct the chaplain.

They sat at the table.

Obdulia was egregious efforts by eating, but his stomach refused
to receive any food.

Still in a state of agitation clearly visible. D. Martin's kids'
about his lack of appetite.

Was he in love perchance? Despite his penchant for the church, he
was betting that was to end violently passionate.

At a glance He knew the temperament for the love.

There were certain signs: the eyecup, which she was very pronounced, the eyes a little narrowed,
dry lips ... and others, and others.

The chief turned to slip invalid. Ms Eloisa was embers, and again called order anguished voice.
This happened very often.

D. Martin enjoyed the unspeakable coloring the cheeks of the ladies
with their bold statements.

He felt it was appropriate complement of another trend that was to
get red of the Knights with their proverbial slaps.

Both accused his temper inclinations and testified undeniably heroic
they come from the weapon of knighthood.

Obdulia used to respond to opportunity and grace, not infrequently
leaving piqued, but the concern now denied access to embargoed note
of his words and give them their due.

Before He felt unwell after dinner and had to go to another room and threw all he had eaten.

At
dessert arrived Ms Serafina Barrado with his chaplain and steward.

Both came incarnate extraordinarily cheerful and talkative. The eyes were shining with fire
gay and malicious that caught the attention of his friends.

- Here's a cigar, D. Martin - said the young priest, offering accredited one band, As he was
sucking the voluptuously.

- Good snuff! - Said the master of the house between the toes turning .-- What lashes stick
you, friend!

- Regular, Regular - replied the priest with a smile of satisfaction, leading to the same time an
expressive look to his former mistress, who paid with other bright and loving.

- Where do you buy?

- Do not buy: I give them away.

Another change of smiling glances and passionate.

- Ah! Then I go out to you for a trifle. Can you tell who is the lord so generous ...

- No sir, it is lady.

Another peek.

- Ah, rogue! I knew you enjoyed great favor with the ladies.

On the face of Ms Serafina alegrísima ran a dark cloud that momentarily.

- It is gift of Ms Serafina, due to be my birthday today - was quick to say the priest.

- It seemed to me that you came too happy today! ... To celebrate this there partying, right?

-
How to spree? - Asked D. Joaquín with some trepidation, fearing military openness his friend.

-
Yes, an intimate comidita special dishes and a couple of bottles of claret.

- It was burgundy - said D. Joaquin laughing - was burgundy.

- Better and better.

- Yes! - Ms Serafina said, ogling his chaplain.

He returned to start including the shooting glances and winks, lavishing attention thousand tender
denoting a state of perfect bliss.

The arrival of Ms Rita did not disturb her ecstasy, less or more delicious. This lady, small
and plump, with big black eyes and big teeth expressionless also healthy and yellow always
entered with a basket where he kept the job. Sacábala slowly, working half hours quietly listening
carefully to everything that was said, and picked up again after the belongings and went to do the
same elsewhere. This ran in the night three or four houses.

It was his habit of knowing, knowing everything, even the most trivial and insignificant.
It well tolerated everywhere, because despite his boundless curiosity never had febrile for any disappointment
caused. Know as only he enjoyed: he was a disinterested pleasure, intense as that of the scientists
who do not look at the result that their knowledge can give them. As the miser piled up in the box
without thinking of gold coins in use ever Ms Rita and treasured in his mind many private
reports could pick up on his travels through the town, without disturbing anyone with them. A
few were kept, then, to talk secrets in his presence, but if someone did it and came to notice
him rushing these desires and anxieties to know what he hid, he had not slept or rested for a moment,
walked pale, haggard, be made rude and intractable. Once discovered the coveted secret, even
if the thing flimsiest grew calm and serenity, returned to its sweet,
peaceful, harmless.

Some subject thugs, as Don Martin, P. Narciso, D. Joachim and others used to tease pretending
a mystery among them, tormented, made him lose his mind on a whim.

But when he entered the P. Narciso, D. Joaquin became more serious, that fellow hiding ineffable
joy, he frolicked in his soul, his eyes avoiding find cheerful sparkling with his former mistress.
He felt at once in the nose a whiff aromatic cigar, looked searchingly at his colleague, Ms Serafina
other and began to date.

- There Gaudeamus, right? - Asked softly.

D. Joaquin blatantly refused.

One after another were coming director, Candida, Mrs. Filomena, P. Melchor, Marcelina and,
in short, almost all regular commentators. Soon Formáronse groups always disintegrated the
elements of that society, operating in it the chemical phenomenon elective affinities. But
this operation was done without the violent upheaval and shocks that are observed in the bosom
of nature, without the actions and reactions to gives rise by fermentation. That night, Candida,
the bony Miss you already know, in Instead of going to kiss the hand of the Father Melchor and
sit beside him and whispering all evening, was to do the same with Fr Norberto. Why this drop? In
the gathering nobody knew more than interested and Ms Rita. Fr Melchor had the foresight to say in
a rochets house that made him the youngest cited were limited in breadth, and it cost him
work with them to bend the arm. Instead, he warmly praised a collar that had given Ms Marciala. The
case was serious, as anyone will understand, and should produce this sad result. Ms Marciala,
Father Narciso seeing more and more inclined to admit and thank the fervent admiration of Ms
Filomena, showed his emotion and indignation, approaching D. Melchor and speaking with an affected
baby. Ms Filomena, after several years of worship resigned, quiet,
had arrived, when they did not expect the goal of their aspirations.
Much attention, so much love had finally managed to captivate the
spirit of telling chaplain Sarrió, who gave clear evidence to the
widow of his affection. After having tried in vain many times, it
had sought from him that was tutor to his son, and to take office
with fans. His fiery temperament is dominant and then said. Poor child
had to experience not only too much work, beyond his years, but a
series of cruel, malicious, refined. And Ms Filomena, who was the
sweetest, I had never raised his hand on his son, impassive man consented
to whip mercilessly. Quieted his conscience by saying that it was
for good.

Marcelina, who had dreamed to replace Ms Serafina in the
heart of D. Joaquín (and actually had some basis for this dream, as
the young priest did not stop to distinguish among all), he was already
quite disappointed. Became convinced that it took her as a tool for
getting a little to your love and have it more attentive and submissive.
This conviction pushed back to D. Narciso, who had long been abandoned,
but this, that he had never professed great fondness, as Obdulia,
unceremoniously rejected. If, however, ex-girl still struggling bravely
with Ms Filomena. A few days earlier had given the Chaplain crochet
a bedspread that was a marvel of pacienzudo and skilled labor. Certainly
the widow, seeing her on the bed of the clergy, underwent a lively
displeasure and cried many tears in secret.

These spiritual turmoil,
the struggles of sensitivity and pious devotion among ladies who attended
there were precisely those that gave a dramatic interest in that world
serene, innocent. Skills were certainly not rude down in societies
profane, where a violent intrigues affect where the relations of man
and the female are based always on the explosion of the senses, bear
the stamp abominable animality. Everything was done in a soft, innocent,
spiritual small shocks that we have mentioned were like the soft ripple
of a lake and transparent beautiful. It was that gathering as a prelude
to heaven where the angels relations, of holy men and women reach
the highest degree of purity immortal.

What was happening for the
soul of Osuna's daughter confirms that idea just made. After that
experience gastric upset, son of the excitement that was, fell into
a deep physical and moral weakness. I felt if they had the impression
she committed a great treachery, and though his mind told him vaguely
absurd in a sense, could not lessens its intensity, or less discarded.
P. hated Gil, you hated with all his soul. I'd give anything for revenge.
What? Not tell her, but beyond the depths of the soul was convinced
he was right to do so. He was unshakable resolution not to confess
to him anymore. With him! A priest comes by night in doorways whispering
with beautiful women and elegant! Ugh! Would be ashamed to do so.
Obdulia was quite sure a woman talking to her confessor was cute.
This assurance was torturing. Of course that if he had the audacity
to come to talk, give him a cold shoulder from the fat, I would back.
And confess again with D. Narciso. And tell his friends in what situation
you had seen a lady unknown and elegant. Because there was no doubt
who was dressed elegantly While he had repaired. Long coat that was
not done in Peñascosa. Who would? Some Lancia, sure, that would pay
him a visit. And why do you come from afar to visit a priest, not
his mother or his sister or his debt? Do not you know that lady that
fame Priests are very delicate and anything bankruptcy? It
was thus I thought of it, then.

'What you want is a holiday, my friend,' said Arncliffe, upon whose kindly heart and front
of brass the beating of the waves of Time seemed powerless to develop the smallest fissure.

'You are right,' I thought. 'A holiday without an end is what I want. And, why not take it,
instead of waiting till the other end comes, and shuts out all possibility of holidays, work,
or thought? Why not?'

I began a reckoning up of my resources. But it was a perfunctory reckoning. The facts really
did not greatly interest me. After all, had I not once calmly set up my establishment in the
country, with a total capital of perhaps twenty pounds? Or, if one came to that, had I not
cheerfully sallied forth into the world, armed only with a one-pound note? True, I told myself,
with some bitterness, the youth had possessed many capabilities which the man lacked. Still,
the reckoning did not greatly interest me. And, while I made it, my thoughts persistently reverted
to Australian bush scenes; never, by the way, to my days of comparative prosperity in Sydney,
but always to bush scenes: camp fires under vast and sombre red mahogany trees; lonely tracks
in heavily timbered country; glimpses of towns like Dursley, seen from the rugged tops of high
wooded ridges; little creeks, lisping over stones never touched by the feet of men or beasts;
tiny clearings among the hills, where a spiral of blue smoke bespoke an open hearth and human
care, though no sound disturbed the peaceful solitude save the hum of insects and the occasional
cry of birds.

Now and again I would allow myself to compose a mental picture of some peaceful retreat upon
the outskirts of a remote English village, where every stock and stone would have a history,
and every inhabitant prove a repository of folklore and local tradition. From actual experience
I still knew very little of rural England, though of late years I had done some exploring.
But, vicariously, I had lived much in Wessex, East Anglia, the delectable Duchy, and other
parts of the country, through the works of favourite writers. And so I did dream at times of
an English retreat, but always such musings would end upon a note of scepticism. These parts
were not far enough away to furnish anything so wonderful, so epoch-making, as my desired 'way
out.' For persons of my temperament one of the commonest and most disastrous blunders of life
is the tacit assumption that the thing easy of attainment and near at hand cannot possibly
prove the thing one wants.

Gradually, then, the idea developed in my mind that the true solution of my problems lay in
a working back upon my life's tracks. My thoughts wandered insistently to the northern half
of the coast of New South Wales. Even now I could hardly say just how much of my retrospective
vision was genuine recollection, and how much the glamour of youth. I tried to recall without
sentiment the effects produced upon me, for example, by the climate of that undoubtedly favoured
region. And with this easement were in favor Inca,
who say they do not anger them, before they send them to provide maintenance and other things,
and sent it to their land, others say that he killed them all without any escape. The first
thing I think, but as one and the other did not say I know more about
these Indians.

Finish this, they say that in many parts came to offer the service of the Inca, and received grace
to all who came, and he left it to return to Cuzco, and found on
the road made many quarters, and that most parties had down the slopes
the natives, and had reached villages on the plain as ordered and
ordered.

Arrived at Cuzco, he was received his style with great pomp, and made great feasts. The commanded by
captains who had gone to war again with the Collao, had gone to Chucuito, and had some battles
in parts of the province, and out victors sujetábanlo all the dominion of the Inca, and was
Condesuyo do the same. And it was very powerful and everywhere flocked lords and masters to serve
him with the rich men of the people, and paid tribute with large order, and to other personal services,
but all with great concert and justice. When they came to speak, were lightly loaded; mirávanle little
face, when he spoke, who heard him trembling in fear or something else, rarely went out in public, and
in war was always the front, would not allow anyone, without his command, had jewelry or settlement
and wandered about in litters, in short, this was the one who paved
the way for the government as excellent The Incas had.

After what has been eScript, dried apricots have that is so powerful as the king Inca, sent
to call people, because I wanted to start another war more important than the past, and to fulfill
its mandate, attended by many leading to large numbers of people armed with weapons they use,
they are deep, axes, clubs, Aillas, darts and spears few. As assembled, he ordered them treats
and parties, and to brighten every day left with a new suit or dress, as it had the nation that
wanted to honor that day, and last, It became another, according as it had those who were called
to treat and drunkenness. With this holgábanse much as here you can encarescer. When they made these
great dances, surrounded the square of Cuzco, a chain of gold that had been ordered to be taxed
as much the regions, as large as in the back I have said, and other
major packages and greatness antiquities.

And as the days hobiesen loose paresció them to Inca Yupanqui, told them how I wanted they were
to the Huancas, and to the Yauyos [161], their neighbors, and strive
for bringing [162] in his friendship and service without war, and
when not, that giving it, it should give knack of overcoming and force
them to. They all replied they would do what he commanded with great
determination. The circle of
my intimates was so very small that the task of explaining my intentions was not a formidable
one, nor even one which I felt called upon to perform with any particular thoroughness. I proposed
to take a voyage for the good of my health, and did not know precisely when I should return.
That I deemed sufficient for most of those to whom anything at all needed to be said.

II

There was something strange, a dream-like want of reality, about my final departure from England,
after five-and-twenty years of working life in London. I am not likely to forget any incident
of it; but yet the whole experience, both at the time and now, seemed (and seems) to be shrouded
in a kind of mist, a by no means disagreeable haze of unreality, which in a measure numbed
all my senses. More than ever before I seemed to be, not so much living through an experience,
as observing it from a detached standpoint.

Investigation of my resources showed that I had accumulated some means during the past dozen
years of simple living and incessant work, not ill-paid. I had just upon two thousand pounds
invested, and between one and two hundred pounds lying to my credit at call, I told myself
that living alone and simply in the bush, a hundred pounds in the year would easily cover all
my expenses. That I had anything like twenty years of life before me was a supposition which
I could not entertain for one moment. And, therefore, I told myself again and again, with curious
insistence, there really was no reason why I need ever again work for money, or waste one moment
over petty anxiety regarding ways and means. That was a very great boon, I told myself; the
greatest of all boons, and better fortune than in recent years I had dared to hope would be
mine. And, puzzled by the coldness with which my inner mind responded to these assurances,
I would reiterate them, watching my mind the while, and almost angered by the absence of elation
and enthusiasm which I observed there.

'You have not properly realised as yet what it means, my friend,' I murmured to myself as I
walked slowly through city alley-ways, after booking my passage to Sydney in a steam ship of
perhaps seven times the tonnage of the old Ariadne of my boyhood's journey to Australia. 'But
it is the biggest thing you have ever known. You will begin to realise it presently. You are
free. Do you hear? An absolutely free man. You need never write another line unless you wish
it, and then you may write precisely what you think, no more, no less. You are going right
away from this howling cockpit, and never need set foot in it again. You are going to a beautiful
climate, a free life in the open, with no vestige of sham or pretence about it, and long, secure
leisure to reflect, to think, to muse, to read, to do precisely what you desire to do, and
nothing else. You are free--free! Do you hear, you tired hack? Too tired to prick your ears,
eh? Ah, well, wait till you've been a week or two at sea!'

Very quietly I addressed my sluggish and jaded self in this wise. Yet more than one hurried
walker in the city ways looked curiously at me, as I passed along, with a wondering scrutiny
which amused me a good deal. 'Too tired to prick your ears.' The suggestion came from the contemptuously
self-commiserating thought that I was rather like a worn-out 'bus horse, to whom some benevolent
minor Providence was offering the freedom of a fine grazing paddock. 'You're too much galled
and spavined, you poor devil, to be moved by verbal assurances. Wait till you scent the breezy
upland, and your feet feel the turf. You'll know better what it all means then.'

I had entertained vague notions of a little farewell feast which I would give to Heron, and,
possibly, to one or two other friends. But from the reality of such convivial enterprise I
shrank, when the time came, preferring to adopt, even to Heron, the attitude of a traveller
who would presently return. And when, as the event proved, I found myself the guest of honour
at a dinner presided over by Arncliffe, my embarrassment pierced through all sense of unreality
and caused me acute discomfort.

It is odd that I, who always have been foolishly sensitive to blame (from professed critics
and others), should shrink so painfully from spoken praise or formal tribute of any kind. It
makes my skin hot even to recall the one or two such episodes I have faced. The wretched inability
to think where to dispose of one's hands and gaze during the genial delivery of after-dinner
encomiums; the distressing difficulty of replying! Upon the whole, I think I was better at
receiving punishment. But it is true, the latter one received in privacy, and was under no
obligation to answer; since replying to printed criticisms was never a folly I indulged.

On the eve of my departure from London I did a curious and perhaps foolish thing, on the spur
of a moment's impulse. I hailed a cab, and drove to Cynthia's house in Sloane Street. Yes,
Mr. and Mrs. Barthrop were at home, and alone, the servant told me; and in another few moments
I was shaking hands with them. Naturally, they called my visit an unexpected pleasure. It was,
in fact, not a very pleasurable quarter of an hour for either one of us. For years I had known
nothing of their interests, or they of mine. Our talk was necessarily shallow, and I dare say
Cynthia, no less than her husband, was glad when I rose to take my leave. The sweet, clear
candour of her face had given place, I thought, to something not wholly unlike querulousness.
But, I had one glance from her eyes, as she took my hand, which seemed to me to say:

'God speed! I understand.'

It may have meant nothing, but I like to think it meant understanding.

From Cynthia's house I went on to Heron's lodging, for I had a horror of being 'seen off,'
and wished to bid my friend good-bye in his own rooms. Our talk was constrained, I remember.
The stress of my uprooting affected me far more than I knew at the time. Heron regarded my
going with grave disapproval as a crazy step. He regretted it, too; and such feelings always
tended to exaggerate his tendency to taciturnity, or to a harsh, sardonic vein in speech.

As his way was in such a matter, Heron calmly ignored my stipulation about being 'seen off,'
and he was standing beside the curb when I stepped out of my cab at Fenchurch Street Station
next morning. There was nearly half an hour to spare, we found, before the boat train started.

'The correct thing would be a stirrup-cup,' growled Heron.

'The very thing,' I said; conversation in such a place, and in such circumstances, proving
quite impossible for me. By an odd chance I recalled my first experiences upon arrival at this
same mean and dolorous station, more than twenty years previously. 'We will go to the house
in which the "genelmun orduder bawth,"' I said, and led Heron across into the Blue Boar.

The forced jocularity of these occasions is apt to be a pitifully wooden business, and I suppose
it was a relief to us both when my train began slowly to move.

'By the way--I had forgotten,' said Heron, very gruffly. 'Take this trifle with you-- May be
of some use. Good-bye! Look me up as soon as you get back. I give you a year--or nearly.'

He waved his hand jerkily, and was gone. He had given me the silver cigarette-case which he
had used for all the years of our acquaintance. It bore his initials in one corner, and under
these I now saw engraved: 'To N. F., 1890-1910.' I do not recall any small incident that impressed
me more than this.

I still moved through a mist. The voices of my travelling companions seemed oddly small and
remote. I felt as though encased and insulated, in some curious way, from the everyday life
about me. And this mood possessed me all through that day. Through all the customary bustle
of an ocean liner's departure, I moved slowly, silently, aloofly, as a somnambulist. It was
a singular outsetting, this start upon my 'way out.'

III

In ordinary times my thrifty instinct might have led me to travel in the second class division
of the great steamer. But it had happened that the sum I set aside to cover my travelling expenses
proved more than ample. Several small unreckoned additions had been made to it during my last
month in England; and the upshot was that I decided to travel by first saloon, and even to
indulge myself in the added luxury of a single-berth, upper-deck cabin. For me privacy had
for long been one of the few luxuries I really did value. Heron had mildly satirised my sybaritic
plans as representing an ingenious preparation for hut life in the Australian bush, but I had
claimed that comfort and privacy on the passage would give me a deserved holiday, and help
put me into good form for my fresh start oversea. I am not sure which view was the more correct.

At all events I certainly was very comfortably placed on board the Oronta. My books I had deliberately
packed in boxes marked 'Not wanted on voyage.' There was not so much as a sheet of manuscript
paper among my cabin luggage. Beyond an odd letter or two for postage at ports of call, and
any casual browsing in the ship's library to which I might feel impelled in my idleness, I
was prepared to give no thought to reading or writing for the present; since for five-and-twenty
years I had been giving practically all my days and half my nights to these pursuits as a working
man of letters.

I had amused myself of late with elaborate anticipations of the delights of idleness during
this passage to Australia. My ideas of sea travel were really culled from recollections of
life on a full rigged clipper ship--not a steamboat. (The homeward passage from Australia had
hardly been sea-travel in the ordinary sense for me, but rather six weeks of clerking in an
office.) In my anticipations of the present journey, the dominant impressions had been based
upon memories of the spotless cleanliness, endless leisure, and primitive simplicity of the
old time sailing ship life. I do not mean that I had thought I should trot about the decks
of the Oronta bare-footed, as I and my childish companions had done aboard the Ariadne; but
I do mean that the atmosphere of the Ariadne life had coloured all my thoughts of what the
present trip would be for me.

And that, of course, was a mistake. The smoothly ordered life of the Oronta's saloon passengers
was very much that of a first-class seaside hotel, say in Bournemouth. So far from sprawling
upon the snowy deck of a forecastle-head, to watch the phosphorescent lights in the water under
our ship's bow, saloon passengers on board the Oronta were not expected ever to intrude upon
the forward deck--the ship had no forecastle-head--which was reserved for the uses of the crew. All announced we were going to have a formal meeting with the French army.

To our knowledge, Dupont continued in Andújar, reinforced by the division of Vedel. Had they stuck with
our third body action and the reserve, which, crossing the river by Marmolejo were located on the
right bank? We thought so, unless Brown does not wait to attack vigorously the first and second
divisions fell on the back of Dupont's army, down from Bailen. Was this the purpose that guided
us in our journey?

Parecíanos yes.

While the drama was time away from us and on the flanks of the imperial army, thousand dramatic
incidents were precipitated the catastrophe, gradually angering the enemy. The bodies and columns
of guerrillas, led by D. Juan de la Cruz, Count Valdecañas Argote and the cleric had been scattered
like deadly swarm through the villages and hamlets which dominated the French headquarters
in the foothills of the mountains, north Andujar. So those ardent pursuit of the French peasants,
and so dispersed quickly to avoid being attacked, that the raiders was quite impossible to be quiet
for a moment. The mighty giant who shook a handful moscones poisonous, but they returned to buzz
around him, annoyed him with its terrible bites, and escaped unscathed, without fear of the sword
or the gun, because these weapons have not been made mosquito.

The French could not deviate from its headquarters and not in large detachments. Thousand men often
went to fill in a few alcarrazas next source of water. If by chance squads out to roam a little
strength, were released by guerrillas at the drop of a hat. Before consenting to get the best
of a breadbox, the burning; sources were clouded with mud and manure, so they could not drink
the mills, disassembled and buried the stones to grind not a single grain. French unto him that
linger in his detachment marches! He felt himself suddenly seized by a thousand angry hands,
he felt drawn by women, pinched by the boys and stabbed by men, until their existence was extinguished
with hideous crash into the cold depths of a well. The invader was no asylum anywhere, and necessarily
confined within the limits Headquarters, I saw other men conspired against Nature. Therefore, angry and
desperate, longed to fight a pitched role, sure of his skills and customs of war, and mourning
the astonishment of the Commander in Chief, exclaimed: "Let us fight, and although half die army,
conquer half a puddle to drink and a handful of dry wheat lead to the mouth. "

They had left the French in Montoro a detachment of seventy men to guard a mill where they made
with flour terrible difficulty. The mayor of that town, where had not been not a single firearm,
dare, however, to account for the seventy French, for which it was necessary to send twenty-first
at all times that were guarding the bridge. Thus encompasses some countrymen determined, and using
knives, furiously attacked the guard, the twenty-five are killed, grab their rifles the brave
crew, surprised the rest of the garrison in the house which housed ago prisoners, soldiers
and commanders, and sends them to the island of Leon. The party was notified this event to
the Supreme Board said that everything was done with the rods of the harrieros (retain the
original spelling), but this must be a hyperbole Andalusia.

Feeling called to larger stocks, D. José de la Torre (for so he was appointed alcaldito) goes
to meet a convoy that came from Cordoba, and fifty-nine French guarding it, fifty are lying
on the road, and the remaining nine Dupont are to tell what happened. Dupont then send a thousand
men with Montoro Custom ignite and carry the people living or dead the mayor. Arde Montoro,
and Torre conducted live, will be spent for weapons, but a French general, who shortly before had
given hospitality to intercede for him, he is released, and that petit foreman Sevilla guerrillas
and get up to the Board of gallons of army captain.

Well, what happened in Montoro occurred in all the peoples of the road to Andalusia from Cordoba
to Santa Elena. The giant fire to and destroyed more armies could take a step without finding
a nest, and furious with that buzz, poisoned stings, cursing the time of the invasion. The
eagle, eaten by insects, squawked the banks of the Guadalquivir in hunger and fever, sharpening
his claws on the trunk of olive trees, with the desire to come soon destroy the chance of
something.

XXI

When we go into dance, and late at night, we was very surprised to see no French force at the entrance
of town to dispute the passage. Where had been the French? What happened to them, as a precaution
and left there a couple of battalions to save point so important? Soon we doubt, because the
mouth of the inhabitants of Bailen, who left en masse to welcome
us, we knew that the division Vedel had passed through in the direction
of Carolina.

- We did them to you in Linares - said D. Paco, who
also came to meet us and joyful -.

Oh, Mr. Earl, my child ... Does Your Excellency hurt perchance? Come a little home, where Mrs. Countess
and girls are praying for the success of war. Do not give the troops a break?

Our General had determined to leave at once for Andújar, but as we
occupied all the village, we arrived at the house of our master, whose
floor room gave us a snack very comforting.

- It's a miracle that
we can give these few loaves and these ounces of raw chocolate - we
D. said Paco by offering those items -.

The French have left anything. Tut plunder! And thank you to stay alive. Alas, Ms. Countess
came out to meet with a serenity I freaked. I was shaking, and I had to hide in the oratory, because
in front of them had lost the dignity of my character.

What a way to loot !...; in short, straw horses, barnyard chickens, eggs, until I had some
tomatoes that stash on my desk to make a gazpachito ..., everything was taken away. The town is dead
misery, and I know many people who made the flour in the dumps so that they do not ride. Do not you
think? Why, and Mr. Salvador, who took the field two hundred skins percent oil and wine he
had in his cave, and uncovered that precious left running broth until it sucked all the earth?
Others made a bonfire with cars and straw. The jewelry and silver images of the churches are all
buried, because this seems to be what they are most open eye on these gentlemen. So furious were
they from when they saw it taken out of here much. On day 16, after having spent a great fear,
enjoy the unspeakable when I saw the boat arrive Menjíbar, defeated and the General died. I ran
through the streets, and what screams gave, and what things so heinous and indecent cast by
those loudmouth! So the very dogs would take revenge! Well, what do you think? They killed many
people who did them no harm, which I think is not seen in any of the wars of Alexander. But they
are also hard ground. A few passed through the By taking street from bluster, and stopped at
the door of the inn Gil, where had turned the oven to cook the dishes. Ay! My Frenchies are
made that do not know what obscene insolence Gil's wife when the boys leave, I grab them, and
helmets and all ..., slap ... !..., baked But here comes Mrs. Countess, who was in the oratory
with girls.

Indeed, we saw parading seriously, covered in black cloak, the lady of the house, followed of
the two tender pimpollitos their daughters, who cried in the arms arrojáronse of his brother.
Dona Maria hugged his son without losing his solemn for a moment and stretched packing, and then
saluted them all with great affection, names one by one. Composed many the crew were present except
Santorcaz, which since our arrival had requested in a hurry to D. Paco puéstose writing materials
and to draw some letters in the office it.

The countess, after greeting us, sat down and went to D. Diego worthy words History:

- My son, I know everything that happened in the action of 16, and no one has told me to do
something remarkable. Have you been afraid?

- Fear! - Said the boy, laughing - No, ma'am. I have done my duty in the ranks, and nothing
else so far, but his mercy do not be impatient, because although
I am only a soldier I hope to show off.

- Nothing more than a soldier!
- Said the Countess -.

You are no soldier, even if this appears. Any that is the position occupied, each must act
according to his name and position has in the world.

What say you, me, this house of your deceased father if, in these Wars do not do something
more than what corresponds to a simple soldier?

- Lady - said the young man with an ease that surprised his family - I do what I can, and as I do,
so I will be more or less than others. And I talk about this, mother, I want to go in the army,
I want to ask your worship the King, what do I say to the King?, a the Board, a shoulder strap.

-
You are not meant to be military but this time supreme, where the
country needs of all children, from highest to lowest.

- But, mother,
I am nothing and I want to be something - insisted the young man,
showing an energy no one had hitherto known.

- You are nothing! -
Said the mother, first with surprise, then anger, and looking everyone
like to ask if his son had gone mad during the campaign.

- I am nothing,
I am a pied - said the boy -.

What are you worth these vile papers old and these coats of arms, if all laugh at me since I open
my mouth because I say no rather than nonsense?

La Condesa reddened like scarlet, and without saying a word, looked
at D. Paco, who, confused, lost, terrified by what had just heard,
rolled their eyes back frightened for another.

- This young man -
he said at last ayo - seems to have lost his mind.

Lady, when he returns from fulfill his duties as a gentleman in the fields of battle, we will
be entering either the maximum contained in the story of Alexander
the Great.

Dona Maria, whose dignity could not allow such a case is tried in front of people strange silenced
D. Paco, and silenced his son with a look scary.

Assumption and Presentation, after the pockets of his brother, studied leggings, Charpa hat and, to
be seen, they said, if those clothes were pierced by a cannonball.

But D. Diego, feeling no doubt in his mind a seething mass of words, hastily occurred to him
as to the sudden fertility of their knowledge, could not be silent long time, and spoke to give
more care to Mrs. Rumble.

We were, as I said, in a lower room, where the Countess had been brought to our gift, a pair
of wine-skin, miraculously saved from the rapacity of France. Don Diego, after he saw this,
he turned to us, we stayed respectfully held at the door, and hearty
gesture Trust told us:

- Hey, guys, come all here Why are you in
the door?

Go, put on hats, here we are all equal, all are comrades in arms, and the same can kill me a bullet
to you. Come, drink together. Do you shame because I am noble and primogeniture, wolverine and you
are poor? Outside nonsense, that today or tomorrow the Boards remove all these antiquities,
and then everyone will be worth as you have and what you know.

Don Paco turned green when he heard such nonsense, and touching his heart, looked at Countess to
face hurt and grieved, as if to express, in the sole eloquence a look, he had not taught these
things to the young disciple. Doña María enclosed anger in the depths of the chest and knew he
was sick but the concern and anger the furtive glitter of his dark eyes, said nothing that would
compromise their dignity, and wishing your child more of conversation, asked if he had done
on visits to Cordoba Ms. Marquesa de Leiva and his niece.

- Yes, madam - said the boy -. I saw them: Mrs. Countess gave me lots of candy, and the Marquesa
I asked if he could help mass. Over and over they told me the girl who is entered my marriage
persists in refusing to leave the convent, ensuring that previously married to Jesus Christ
to me. What ranciedades, dear mother! - Added to new outburst -. I want to keep in the army,
I want to go to Madrid to treat people who know, and philosophers,
and read the Encyclopedia, and see the secret societies, if any then,
and learn what I do not know, because D. Paco not only taught me the
folly of On the railing of the sky.

The schoolmaster looked back compungidamente the Countess, painting in his eyes wet persuasion
that he had not instructed of the estate in such wickedness, and Ms Mary scolded his son with
truly royal majesty, telling him to pause and poise these bitter words:

- My son, remember that I gave you a sword that had belonged to your
grandparents.

Honor gives that steel sticks that old, but she also receives from the hands of the holder, whichever
is person who can acquire them in the battlefields. Disgrace "that brought you this sword your father's
great-grandfather on the site of Maastricht, when half the world was called Spain?

- The sword! - Said the boy with surprise -. I do not remember the blessed sword. If and I have
not.

- What do not you? - Asked Ms Maria ton amazement.

- No, ma'am. If no avail!

When we made the first attack in Menjíbar, I brought my little sword, and the first shots I
gave in a saw that cut herbs.

- Do not cut!

- No, ma'am.

It was a dull blade, full of graffiti, signs, here toads, snakes
there, and covered with mold from tip to handle.

What I used? Having no edged sword exchanged my back gave me a sergeant.

- And gave the sword, the sword !...-- said the Countess, rising from
his seat.

The lady was sublime in its indignation.

It seemed the picture of history, rising from his grave to demand
accountability from the contemporary generation.

- Yes, ma'am, I
gave the sergeant - said the boy, pulling a sword sheath bright, new,
and very sharp edge -.

If that did not serve more than a hindrance! Very nice, that if all full drawings of silver
and gold, but, mother, if not cut ... if it was full of rust ...
You see this sword: it has no sign, or heads, or ticks, or anything,
but shorter than is a pleasure.

We note that the Countess took a step toward his son, that her face is beautiful and venerable
contracted, distorted by anger, which extended his arms began to stammer with voiceover hit,
as if his tongue angrily hitting pretty hard to find a word, quite
strong for such a situation, we saw then bring both hands to his head,
back, hesitation, leaning on the shoulder of D. Paco, and finally
recover, stand up, calm down, look his son with contempt, pointing
to the street, where suddenly began to hear strong step drums, and
say:

- The army goes.

Run, run. When the war is over, reckoning. If you brave and come back alive, slapping will teach
you to respect your name. But if you are a coward, do not come back here.

We left in haste, and riding our horses, we occupy the ranks. At the point Santorcaz joined us. Don Paco
would not come out to say goodbye, because I was pierced with pain, to see - he said later - in
a week how twisted, the blow of bad company, the right tree so carefully raised in the peaceful
garden of his lessons.

The two ladies took to the windows and waving goodbye to us with the
same tissue they dried their tears.

Neither, nor the intended marriage, which was therefore ignorant, or devoted to the cloister,
which was already half a doctor, had understood the conversation I have just mentioned.

The poor things looked a world away and a new birth without realizing it.

XXII

It was dawn when the columns began to edge out of Bailen.

My regiment should leave the past, and while the artillery set in
motion and bodies foot, more than half an hour were formed out of
town, to the right of way waiting for the order of the march.

We went to Andujar, determined to take the offensive against French
army at the same time Brown was being attacked by the side of Marmolejo.

What Vedel's division, whose movements were key to this strategic problem? The Vedel's division
was in Andújar day 16, when the action occurred Menjíbar, previously I have described. Dupont
Knowing the Ligier-Belair defeat and death of Gobert, provided that Vedel Bailén march on, intending
to follow him the next day.

While this was going on Andújar, Ligier-Belair, to see us withdraw and cross the river, believed
that Reding's troops, together with those of Coupigny, trying to expand cautiously the left bank,
upstream, taking the road to Linares Guarromán to occupy after The Carolina and cutting in
front of the saw.

Confident of this, without making inquiries, pushed toward the North, thinking ahead to what
you thought was a stroke of genius general strategic Reding. Bailen comes to believing Vedel
find, and French who were there say to him: "Quia, insurgents have gone over the river and go
for Linares take the step of the mountain, but the general Ligier-Belair, who has understood
the game, has gone at once to occupy La Carolina, so that when the Spanish arrived, believing
have done a first-order motion, I find there. "Vedel hears this and says: "They have been to
cut off the saw to prevent removal and hunger kill us here and thirst. Then run to La Carolina.
Come, on. "Send a messenger to Dupont, saying: "Mr. Commander in Chief, the insurgents have
been to cut off the mountains. I run to La Carolina; you come after me and kill them. "

This happened at 17 and 18. Meanwhile, the insurgents retreated to the left bank as I said, faked
a move to Linares, but as night fell, the insurgents walk in a rush to Bailen. So in this village
told us, "passed by here Vedel this morning in the direction of Carolina, to prevent you to hew step
of the saw. Do not you went to Linares? "

No, we went to Andujar, to attack Dupont. Because of the movements torpísimos French generals, a large
part of the imperial power ran to the mountains, looking for a ghost. The insurgents, whom they
supposed to march towards La Carolina, were Bailen, up to Andújar. This is the true and accurate
situation of Spanish divisions and French on the night of 18 to 19
July.

We were going to fight with Dupont, Dupont only. But what if Vedel, knowing his time error, quickly
retreated to fall suddenly on our back during combat? This dire was likely offset by the fact that
certain French army Andújar would have to defend both of us and reserve,
which was threatening side Poniente.

Anyway, our position was risky so, wishing Reding ensure that the true distance that was Vedel,
had sent up the road from Menjíbar, the lieutenant of engineers D. José Jiménez, with instructions
to find out.

This brave officer, whose name is in history, was disguised as carrier, and a exhausting day
playing very well knew his commission, returning at night to say that Vedel had passed beyond
La Carolina.

So things were when we were preparing to leave at dawn Bailen 19. But we had planned everything
we had not planned to Dupont, very wary of that illusory occupation
of the mountains by the insurgents, had raised his country on the
same night, and silently stifling the sounds of his troops, leaving
the unfortunate and they cursed city of Andújar.

Near dawn, our heads available for the march column. If at first that evening, which was to extinguish a human
eye could scan from the heights of heaven what was going on that
long stretch of fields and olive groves extending to the edge of the
mountains, between them and the Guadalquivir, would have seen that
the Andujar obscure hamlet stood cautiously, slipping behind the houses,
a line of men and horses, that this row was going on the road stretching
in endless procession, and wound with a slow pace, with no noise and
no lights, would have seen how it was spreading the black stripe,
standing out at times on the white ground, sometimes confused with
the dark olive trees, while step by step, as if unwilling to be seen
and longed Dust off the noise of the carriages, would have seen that
going forward about three thousand men infantry, then a squad of horses,
after six guns, then a huge number cars, many, many cars, which occupied
two leagues behind the new car groups infantry and many generals,
after six guns, two regiments of armed horsemen; then four guns, and
finally another group of heads, followed by five hundred men on foot.

 But they must not be accompanied by "moody middle-age." Do please remember when
the hermitage palls that it may be left just as easily as it was found. And then, apart from
Mr. Heron and others, there will be a friend waiting to see you in London, and--and wanting
to see you.... That's my agent, the man with the green-lined umbrella. Good-bye--friend!'

V

The Oronta was a dull ship for me once she had passed Adelaide; duller even than in the grey
days between Tilbury and Naples. Adelaide passed, an Australian-bound liner seems to have reached
the end of her outward passage, and yet it is not over. The remainder, for Melbourne, Sydney,
and Brisbane-bound folk, is apt to be a weariness, even as a train journey is, with passengers
coming and going and trunks and boxes much in evidence.

I had lost my friend, though I had called this my method of retaining her friendship; and rightly,
I dare say. To be worthy of her a man should have left in him ten times my vitality, I thought;
he should be one who looked forward rather than back; he should bring to their joint wayfaring
a far keener zest for life than my years in our modern Grub Street had left me. How vapid was
the talk of my remaining fellow-passengers; how slow of understanding, and how preoccupied
with petty things they seemed! They discussed their luggage, and questions regarding the proper
amounts for stewards' tips. Had not some traveller called Adelaide Australia's city of culture?
It seemed a pleasant town. The Mount Lofty country near by was beautiful, I gathered. It might
well have been better for me to have left the ship there. My musings were in this sort; somewhat
lacking, perhaps, in the zest and cheerfulness which should pertain to a new departure in life.

I spent a few days in Sydney, chiefly given to walks through the city and suburbs. There was
a certain interest, I found, to be derived from the noting of all the changes which a quarter
of a century had wrought in this antipodean Venice. Some of the alterations I noticed were
possibly no more than reflections of the changes time had wrought in myself; for these--the
modifications which lie between ambitious youth and that sort of damaged middle-age which carries
your dyspeptic farther from his youth than ever his three score years and ten take the hale
man--had been radical and thorough with me. But, none the less, Sydney's actual changes were
sufficiently remarkable.

At the spot whereon I made my entry into society (as I thought), in the studio of Mr. Rawlence,
the artist, stood now an imposing red building of many storeys, given over, I gathered, to
doctors and dentists. The artist, I thought, was probably gathered to his fathers ere this,
as my old fellow-lodger, Mr. Smith, most certainly must have been. Mr. Foster, the editor of
the Chronicle, had died some years previously. The offices and premises of Messrs. J. Canning
and Son, my first employers in Sydney, were as though I had left them but yesterday, unchanged
in any single respect. But the head of the firm, as I had known him, was no more; and his son,
of whom I caught one glimpse on the stairway, had grown elderly, grey, and quite surprisingly
stout.

There was some interest for me in prowling about the haunts of my youth; but to be honest,
I must admit there was no pleasure, even of the mildly melancholy kind. However beautiful their
surroundings, no New World cities are in themselves beautiful or picturesque. That which is
new in them is--new, and well enough; and that which is not new or newish is apt to be rather
shabby than venerable. I apprehend that Old World cities would be quite intolerably shabby
and tumble-down but for the fact that, when they were built, joint stock companies were unknown,
and men still took real pride in the durability of their work. We have made wondrous progress,
of course, and are vastly cleverer than our forbears; but for the bulk of the work of our hands,
there is not very much to be said when its newness has worn off.

I thought seriously for an hour or more of going to Dursley to visit its Omniferacious Agent,
and, more particularly, perhaps to see his wife; possibly even to settle in the neighbourhood
of that pretty little town. Then I reckoned up the years, and decided against this step. The
Omnigerentual One would be an old man, if alive; and his wife--I recalled her fragile figure
and hopeless invalidism, and thought I would sooner cherish my recollections of five-and-twenty
years than put them to the test of inquiry.

On the fourth or fifth day I drove with my bags to the handsome new railway station which had
taken the place of the rambling old Redfern terminal I remembered, and took train for the north.
I found I had no wish, at present, to visit Werrina, Myall Creek, or Livorno Bay, and my journey
came to an end a full fifty miles south of St. Peter's Orphanage. Here, within five miles of
the substantial township of Peterborough, I came, with great ease, upon the very sort of place
I had in mind: a tiny cottage of two rooms, with a good deep verandah before, and a little
lean-to kitchen, or, in the local phrase, skillion, behind; two rough slab sheds, a few fruit
trees past their prime, an acre of paddock, and beyond that illimitable bush.

I bought the tiny place for a hundred and five pounds, influenced thereto in part by the fact
that the daughter of its owner, a small 'cockatoo' farmer's wife, lived no more than a quarter
of a mile away; and was willing, for a modest consideration, to come in each day and 'do' for
me, to the extent of cooking one hot meal, washing dishes, and tidying my little gunyah. Thus,
simply and swiftly, I became a landed proprietor, and was able to send to Sydney for my heavy
chattels, knowing that, for the first time in my life, I actually possessed in my own right
a roof to shelter them withal, though it were only of galvanised iron. (The use of stringy
bark for the roofing of small dwellings seemed to have ceased since my last sojourn in these
parts, the practical value of iron for rain-water catchment having thrust aside the cooler
and more picturesque material.)

In the township of Peterborough I secured, for the time being, the services of a decent, elderly
man named Fetch--Isaiah Fetch--and together we set to work to make a garden before my little
house; to fence it in against the attacks of bandicoots and wandering cattle, and to effect
one or two small repairs, additions and improvements to the place. This manual work interested
me, and, I dare say, bettered my health, though I was ashamed to note the poor staying power
I had as compared with Isaiah Fetch, who, whilst fully ten years my senior, was greatly my
superior in toughness and endurance.

VI

Wages for labour had soared and soared again since my day in Australia, even for elderly and
'down-along more than up-along 'men like Isaiah Fetch. (The phrase is his own.) And, in any
case, I told myself, it was not for the likes of me to keep hired men. And so, when the garden
was made, and the other needed work done, I parted with Isaiah--a good, honest, homespun creature,
rich in a sort of bovine contentment which often moved me to sincere envy--and was left quite
alone in my hermitage, save for the morning visit of perhaps a couple of hours, which the worthy
Mrs. Blades undertook to pay for the purpose of tidying my rooms and cooking a midday meal
for me. Her coming between nine and ten each morning, and going between twelve and one, formed
the chief, if not the only, landmarks in the routine of my quiet days. So it was when I parted
with Isaiah. So it is to-day, and so it is like to remain--while I remain.

Parting with Isaiah Fetch made a good deal of difference to me; more difference than I should
have supposed it possible that anything connected with so simple a soul could have made. The
plain fact is, I suppose, that while Isaiah worked about the place here, I worked with him,
in my pottering way. I developed quite an interest in my bit of garden, because of the very
genuine interest felt in the making of it by Isaiah. I had worked at it with him; but, once
he had left it, I regret to say the ordered ranks of young vegetables tempted me but little,
and soon became disordered, for the reason that the war I waged against the weeds was but a
poor, half-hearted affair. And so it was with other good works we had begun together. I gave
up my cow, because it seemed far simpler to let Mrs. Blades have her for nothing, on the understanding
that she brought me the daily trifle of milk I needed. I left the feeding and care of my few
fowls to Mrs. Blades, and finally made her a present of them, after paying several bills for
their pollard and grain. It seemed easier and cheaper to let Mrs. Blades supply the few eggs
I needed.

My horse Punch I kept, because we grew fond of each other, and the surrounding bush afforded
ample grazing for him. When Punch began his habit of gently biting my arm or shoulder every
time I led him here or there, he sealed his own fate; and now will have to continue living
with his tamely uninteresting master willy nilly. Lovable, kindly, spirited beast that he is,
I never could have afforded the purchase of his like but for a slight flaw in his near foreleg,
which in some way spoils his action, from your horsey man's standpoint, and pleases me greatly,
because it brought the affectionate rascal within my modest reach. I give him very little work,
and rather too much food; but he has to put up with a good deal of my society, and holds long
converse with me daily, I suppose because he knows no means of terminating an interview until
that is my pleasure.

One piece of outdoor work I have continued religiously, for the reason, no doubt, that I love
wood fires, even in warm weather. I never neglect my wood-stack, the foundations of which were
laid for me by Isaiah Fetch. Every day I take axe and saw and cut a certain amount of logwood.
My hearth will take logs of just four feet in length, and I feed it royally. The wood costs
nothing; when burning it is highly aromatic, and I like to be profuse with it; I who can recall
an interminable London winter, in a garret full of leaks and draught holes, in which the only
warming apparatus, besides the poor lamp that lighted my writing-table, was a miserable oil-stove,
which I could not afford to keep alight except for the brief intervals during which it boiled
my kettle for me.

Yes, I know every speck and every cranny of my cavernous hearth, and it is rarely that it calls
for any kindling wood of a morning. As a rule a puff from the bellows and a fresh log--one
of the little fellows, no thicker than your leg, which I split for this purpose--is enough
to set it on its way flaming and glowing for another day of comforting life. I often tell myself
it would never do for me to think of giving up my hermitage and returning to England, because
of Punch and my ever-glowing hearth; even if there were no other reasons, as of course there are.

For, whilst the comparative zestfulness of the first months, when I worked with Isaiah Fetch
to improve my rough-hewn little hermitage, may not have endured, yet are there many obvious
and substantial advantages for me in the life I lead here, in this little bush back-water,
where the few human creatures who know of my existence regard me as a poor, harmless kind of
crank, and no one ever disturbs the current of my circling thoughts. Never was a life more
free from interruptions from without. And if disturbance ever emanates from within, why, clearly
the fault must be my own, and should serve as a reminder of how vastly uneasy my life would
surely be in more civilised surroundings, where interruptions descend upon one from without,
thick as smuts through the window of a London garret--save where the garreteer cares to do
without air. Here I sit with a noble fire leaping at one end of my unlined, wooden room, and
wide open doors and windows all about me. As regards climate, in New South Wales a man may
come as near as may be to eating his cake and having it too.

And, for that long-sought mental restfulness, content, peace, whatever one may call it, is
not my present task a long step towards its attainment? A completed record of the fitful struggle
one calls one's life, calmly studied in the light of reason untrammelled by sentiment, never
interrupted by the call of affairs; surely that should bring the full measure of self-comprehension
upon which peace is based! To doubt that contentment lies that way would be wretchedness indeed.
But why should I doubt what the world's greatest sages have shown? True, my own experience
of life has suggested that contentment is rather the monopoly of the simplest souls, whose
understanding is very limited indeed. A stinging thought this, and apt to keep a man wakeful
at night, if indulged. But I think it should not be indulged. To doubt the existence of a higher
order of content than that of the blissfully ignorant is to brush aside as worthless and meaningless
the best that classic literature has to offer us, and--such doubts are pernicious things.

Living here in this clean, sweet air, so far removed from the external influences which make
for fret and stress, my bodily health, at all events, has small excuse for failure one would
suppose. And, indeed, at first it did seem to me that I was acquiring a more normal kind of
hardihood and working efficiency in this respect. But I regret to say the supposition was not
long-lived. Four or five months after my arrival here I took to my bed for a fortnight, as
the result of one of the severest attacks I have ever had; and in the fifteen months which
have elapsed since then, my general health has been very much what it was during the years
before I left London, while the acute bouts of neuritis and gastric trouble, when they have
come, have been worse, I think, than those of earlier years.

But, none the less, without feeling it as yet, I may be building up a better general condition
in this quiet life; and the bitterly sharp attacks that seize me may represent no more than
a working off of arrears of penalties. I hope it may be so, for persistent ill-health is a
dismal thing. But, as against that, I think I am sufficiently philosophic--how often that blessed
word is abused by disgruntled mankind--to avoid hopes and desires of too extravagant a sort,
and, by that token, to be safeguarded from the sharper forms of disappointment.

Contentment depends, I apprehend, not upon obtaining possession of this or that, but upon the
wise schooling of one's desires and requirements. With good dogs already have clothing, safety pin. Ah!
God gives me a black dog that smells dende a league ...

- As for myself, "said Captain Peña Moya cutting off the floor, I must inform the Don Candido I've
done in your gift as fit in my faculties. Indeed, just I had notice of the occurrence by which
I gave you his overseer, Don Liborio Sanchez, no watch lost time in passing trade, to use e-Bay
Honda, to Messrs. Lucas Villaverde and Don Maximo Arosarena, inspectors in San Diego de Núñez,
of the item captained by Don Francisco Estévez, just formed by order of the Real Board Development,
to pursue Maroons in jurisdictions from the pier tables or Mariel Callajabos, Bankruptcy Axe,
etc., to the western limits of Bahia Honda. With my job I included the lords inspectors affiliation,
age and nature (more or least understood, because you know that all blacks are alike) of the
seven that have been I hope you run off to, then, that if you encounter them the game, something
feasible, because I suspect who pulled the mountains near Cuzco, the capture y. .. Nor should it
surprise Mr. Don Candido which he has escaped seven blacks, when the same time have flat 12,
St. Thomas, 8, Valvanera, 6, Santa Isabel, 20, of La Begoña, and 40, yes sir, 40 as you hear
it, the narrow, immediate wit here, belonging to Hon. Lord Count of Fernandina. The list of all
their work and held by masters inspectors, and I suppose also, Captain Estévez.

- No wonder the leak of my servants, "said Don Candido thoughtful.

Nor are these the first blacks who are fleeing me. There are, if not, Chilala, Jose, Sixto, John,
Lino, Nicholas Picap, etc., not let me lie. These, when they are not raised in the mountains,
suffering, such as now a rather long sentence on the farm, and crickets are double strand, or
crawl chain with mace. Goyo, or Cayman, the watchman of the talanquera on the road from the beach,
is knows who has spent his youth between these mountains can be seen from here ... But all
those are real congo, congo congo Loango or musundi, race humble, submissive, loyal, the most
proper for slavery, which seems a natural condition. Just a flaw, yes, serious capital: is more
lazy race comes out of Africa. If you could live without eating howler monkeys, there would human
forces that compelled them to turn back and work. Be able to spend the panciarriba cast life ...
And not to work, often fleeing ... What surprises me much, what I fail to explain is why they
followed the example of Peter and Paul howler carabalí, Julian plow, Andrés bibi, Tomasa suam,
Antonio Cleto Briche or Ganga. These black industrious, tireless work, strong, robust, formal,
they do not run away without cause. No, black people who always have time for their masters and
yes, raise money and freedom is often not flee little. They are very proud, that is his only
flaw, to win without strong cause. Before hanging themselves to escape to the forest ...

Lie could see so little that something is reached Don Candido ailment
Gamboa African ethnology.

Already seen, the constant traffic in slaves for many years, holding two or three hundred of
these, he had been taught by race were more submissive or rebellious, more or less calculated
to lead to death on the heavy yoke of slavery. Happened, however, that nothing had taught him to Moya
long experience in handling black own and others, and his whole being revolted when she heard
that there were good and bad, and that some are not without cause powerful ever fled rather took
their own lives. So Moya, at risk of breaking straw with the master, said:

- It is known that Mr. Don Candido has been black and knows those
who serve it and do not serve pa pa that.

By permission of Don Candido I say that blacks are toos do the same when the Guinea them into
his head. Pa toos then pull back as the mules and must jar with the leather. We'll see.
 Then, with occasional thrusts round of his head to nuzzle one
of my ankles, or to snatch a tempting bit of greenery, he carries me home, and together--for
he superintends this operation with the most close and anxious care, his foreparts well inside
the feed-house--we mix his breakfast, first in an old four-gallon oil-can, and then in the
manger, and I sit beside him and smoke a cigarette till the meal is well under weigh.

I have made Punch something of a gourmand, and each meal has to contain, besides its foundation
of wheaten chaff and its pièce de résistance of cracked maize, a flavouring of oats--say, three
double handfuls--and a thorough sprinkling, well rubbed in, of bran. If the proportions are
wrong, or any of the constituents of the meal lacking, Punch snorts, whinnies, turns his rump
to the manger, and demands my instant attention. I was intensely amused one day when, sitting
in the slab and bark stable, through whose crevices seeing and hearing are easy, to overhear
the mail-man telling Mrs. Blades that, upon his Sam, I was for all the world like an old maid
with her canary in the way I dry-nursed that blessed horse; by ghost, I was! He was particularly
struck, was this good man, by my insane practice of sometimes taking Punch for a walk in the
bush, as though he were a dog, and without ever mounting him.

Punch provided for, my own ablutions are performed in the wood-shed, where I have learned to
bathe with the aid of a sponge and a bucket of water, and have a shower worked by a cord connected
with a perforated nail-can. By this time my billy-can is probably spluttering over the hearth,
and I make tea and toast, after possibly eating an orange. And so the day is fairly started,
and I am free to think, to read, to write, or to enjoy idleness, after a further chat with
Punch when turning him out to graze. My wood-chopping I do either before breakfast or towards
the close of the day; the latter, I think, more often than the former. It makes a not unpleasant
salve for the conscience of a mainly idle man, after the super-fatted luxury of afternoon tea
and a biscuit or scone.

An Australian bushman would call my tea no more than water bewitched, and my small pinch of
China leaves in an infuser spoon but a mean mockery of his own generous handful of black Indian
leaves, well stewed in a billy to a strength suited for hide-tanning. Of this inky mixture
he will cheerfully consume (several times a day) a quart, as an aid to the digestion of a pound
or two of corned beef, with pickles and other deadly things, none of which seem to do him much
harm. And if they should, the result rather amuses and interests him than otherwise; for, of
all amateur doctors (and lawyers), he is the most enthusiastic and ingenuous. He will tell
you (with the emphatic winks, nods, and gestures of a man of research who has made a wonderful
discovery, and, out of the goodness of his heart, means to let you into the secret) of some
patent medicine which is already advertised, generally offensively, in every newspaper in the
land; and, having explained how it made a new man of him, will very likely insist with kindly
tyranny upon buying you a flagon of the costly rubbish.

'I assure you, Mr. Freydon, you won't know yourself after takin' a bottle or two of Simpkins's
Red Marvel.' I agree cordially, well assured that in such a case I should not care to know
myself. 'Why, there was a chap down Sydney way, Newtown I think it was he lived in, or it mighter
bin Balmain. Crooil bad he was till they put him on to the Red Marvel. Fairly puzzled the doctors,
he did, an' all et up with sores, somethin' horrible. Well, I tell you, I wouldn't be without
a bottle in my camp. Sooner go without 'baccy. Naa that makes them missing.
Too that I have them in chocolate. Why all the work? Why the long leather? Now do not work,
so to speak, and verifies Don Liborio Corpus to San Juan takes a face-down.

- If it is given me to speak my mind, interjected at this point the priest modestly, I think
is not to be expected from people as ignorant as the blacks, who judge and act which rational
creatures. Toilet would look for the reason of riots and crimes the instincts of justice and
law. No. The reason was perhaps the most fanciful, the most absurd, the less justified ...
It is, however, a rare coincidence time have raised many blacks and those farms that have changed
very little here your system to grind cane. Will these stupid creatures that they have included
increases work because instead of grinding with oxen or mules ground with steam? What do we know?
Worth investigating.

- Ya, "said Don Candido, always thoughtful, along with half-closed eyes columns ashy smoke that
escaped her mouth. The argument of my namesake is a good case black congo, false, talking
to other black African nations. He observed about their different natures and I know what I
mean. The deal more than anything else has to do with behavior of some blacks. All were born
for slavery, that is their natural condition; in their own country are nothing more than slaves,
or of a few masters or the devil. There are, however, they need rigorous, very rigorous, whip
it around to work; that there are good straight out of them what
you want.

- Assyria is, as the Don Candido, returned to get the scoop
Moya.

But I say that if there are blacks who do not complain about the treatment pueen, those are Mr.
Don Candido. They are like flowers, good eating, well put on, ca one with his conuco and filthy,
many home work not only from sunrise to sunset, and leather are not given by NAA and NAA, as
I have seen that is done in other mills. They take many little fatigues, two or three hours
on Sundays. And if not cane is milled almost too the rest of the time is yours to make basket,
fatten their pigs, hoeing their conucos ... Almost all the coals have a day of drum.
 And then, more often than not,
will come another blessed two hours, or even more, of unconsciousness, before the first purple
grey forecasts of a new day call me out into the bush for my morning lesson in serenity: Nature's
astringent message to egoists and all the sedentary, introspective tribe, that bids us note
our own infinite insignificance, our utter and microscopical unimportance in her great scheme
of things, and her sublime indifference to our individual lives; to say nothing of our insectile
hopes, fears, imaginings, despairs, joys, and other forms of mental and emotional travail.

It may or may not be evidence of mental exhaustion or indolence, but I notice that I have experienced
here no inclination to read anything that is new to me. I have read a good deal under this
roof, including a quite surprising amount of fiction; but nothing, I think, that I had not
read before. During bouts of illness here, I have indulged in such debauches as the rereading
of the whole of Hardy, Meredith, Stevenson, W. E. Henley's poems, and the novels of George
Gissing, Joseph Conrad, and H. G. Wells. Some of the better examples of modern fiction have
always had a special topographical appeal to me. I greatly enjoy the work of a writer who has
set himself to treat a given countryside exhaustively. This, more even than his masterly irony,
his philosophy, his remarkable fullness of mind and opulent allusiveness, has been at the root
of the immense appeal Hardy's work makes to me. ('Q,' in a different measure, of course, makes
a similar appeal.) Let the Wessex master forsake his countryside, or leave his peasants for
gentlefolk, and immediately my interest wanes, his wonderful appeal fails.

Since I have been here in the bush I have understood, as never before, the great and far-reaching
popularity of Thomas Hardy's work among Americans. He gives so much which not all the wealth,
nor all the genius of that inventive race, can possibly evolve out of their New World. But,
upon the whole, I ought not to have brought my fine, tall rank of Hardy's here, still less
to have pored over them as I have. There is that second edition of Far From the Madding Crowd
now, with its delicious woodcuts by H. Paterson. It is dated 1874--I was a boy then, newly
arrived in this antipodean land--and the frontispiece shows Gabriel Oak soliciting Bathsheba:
'Do you happen to want a shepherd, ma'am?' No, I cannot say my readings of Hardy have been
good for me here. There is Jude the Obscure now, a masterpiece of heart-bowing tragedy that.

No, that was not discreet reading for a dyspeptic man of letters, alone in a two-roomed gunyah
in the midst of virgin bush, in a land where the respectably old dates back a score of years,
the historic, say, fifty years, and 'the mists of antiquity' a bare century.

But this mention of Hardy reminds me of a curious literary coincidence which I stumbled upon
a few months ago. For me, at all events, it was a discovery. I was reading, quite idly, the
story which should long since have been dramatised for the stage, The Trumpet Major, written,
if I mistake not, in the early 'nineties. I came to chapter xxiii., which opens in this wise:

Christmas had passed. Dreary winter with dark evenings had given place to more dreary winter
with light evenings. Rapid thaws had ended in rain, rain in wind, wind in dust. Showery days
had come--the season of pink dawns and white sunsets....

This reading was part of my Hardy debauch. A week or two earlier I had been reading what I
think was his first book, written a quarter of a century before The Trumpet Major. I refer
to Desperate Remedies; with all its faults, an extraordinarily full and finished production
for a first book. Now, with curiosity in my very finger-tips, I turned over the pages of this
volume, reread no more than a week previously. I wonder if the author, or any others among
his almost innumerable readers, have chanced to light upon this particular coincidence!

Another writer of fiction, whose bent of mind, if sombre, was far from devoid of ironical humour,
has occupied a deal of my leisure here--George Gissing. I rank him very high among the Victorian
novelists. His work deserves a higher place than it is usually accorded by the critics. He
was a fine story-teller, and for me (though their topographical appeal is not, perhaps, very
obvious) his books are very closely packed with living human interest. But again, for such
an one as myself, so situated, I would not say that a course of Gissing formed particularly
wholesome or digestible reading. Here, for example, is a passage associated in my recollection
with a night which was among the worst I have spent in this place:

He thought of the wretched millions of mankind to whom life is so barren that they must needs
believe in a recompense beyond the grave. For that he neither looked nor longed. The bitterness
of his lot was that this world might be a sufficing Paradise to him, if only he could clutch
a poor little share of current coin....

No, for such folk as I, that was not good reading. Imagine what the pious reader would be no despair when followed Mutileder knew Adherbal good
authority that, seeing the urgency to set sail, and soon reach the ocean, for not wasting the
monsoons, favorable then those who went to India, had come into post, with camels at intervals
that were ready and stepped into the road, to be as soon as possible Aziongaber port, along
the Red Sea.

Any failure was impossible because Mutileder came to where the ocean Phoenician who was subtracted
and his revenge. Time had passed, pampanitos have had before that
the ocean might set up a shot from his sling or at your club.

He believed then that Adherbal Mutileder had taken with him to be ornament Echeloría main flagship,
from which he had to command the fleet, and anger that bordered on
extreme, kicked, swore, snorted, cursed, and even had to be plucked
some of the lovely auburn curls that crowned his head.

Through it all, was great when he won his consolation to know that
the rogue and courteous marine despicable flatterer of princes, had
this to Solomon's beautiful Echeloría.

VI

How to resist the temptation here how much more expensive D. Juan Fresco is puffed and proud,
and what you put plump, well paid and given the eyebrows have been
peeled decoding and reading the inscriptions and papyri manuscripts
from which is taken from this story?

For it is stated that a bermejino, for within bermejino was Mutileder, as was Vescio Villabermeja
then, rivals Solomon comes to making brilliant and extraordinary see the role that reading followeth.

Mutileder
not discouraged to learn that he was in the harem Echeloría Solomon ordered before stay in
Jerusalem, spy opportune moment, and as soon as they submit, grab it by the forelock, the pretty
girl wresting from the hands of the Wise King. Thought why not make slightest damage to Solomon.
Mutileder was too monarchical, and the king, as king and his science infused and other virtues,
he instilled respect.

Solomon also was not to blame nor had any Mutileder offended. He had accepted the gift that had
brought him, and had given proof in good taste to accept and store.

Sometimes conceived Mutileder some flattering hope. I imagined that had to mourn Echeloría
he and Solomon had to say, with all courtesy and finesse, that did not love him because he loved to
another and wisdom was that Solomon, who was kind to women, and so polite and condescending
have consented to the idols of the land of each of them should not
be fierce with Echeloría, but not well knew that his idol was Mutileder,
had to give up their claims.

Mutileder came to descry as likely to make the King look to deliver a the girl, and even that
may be smoothed to be best man.

The strength, perseverance and endurance Echeloría had to move all this and more, generous spirit
of Solomon.

What mattered to this great King a woman more or less when had in
his harem queens seven hundred, eight hundred concubines, and infinite
number of princesses? So it was natural that, seeing Solomon Echeloría
love with another, distressed and tearful, and rejected by surly style
and Mountaineer, was to appear detached.

In making this assumption,
very plausible, Mutileder blushed with shame. Millionaires are scarce here, and so perhaps are
men brilliant in any direction. But really poor folk, hungry folk, folk who must fight for
bare sustenance, are not merely scarce--they are unknown in this land. 

The end of the novel can not be more tragic. If only considering the material and external Life
can not be more pessimistic. Soledad is helpless, and almost accused of thievery dishonored. Her
husband, who has returned from Buenos Aires and has taken part in a huge riot popular, died
of a gunshot captaining the mob. And the good D. Antonio, no person friend to care for him,
and among the rapacious clutches of their infamous cousins, unfortunately just his life.

But the singularity of this, which proves that style, beliefs and feelings the narrator and the
skylight that illuminates perhaps the most cruel and higher Disasters can exchange the evil
into good and make the poison antidote is that Angelito and Soledad, as hapless materially,
are worthy of envy and glory, and poor D. Antonio, who at the beginning of the novel almost
gives us is the object of scorn and laughter and fun, just to be loved and revered by readers.

He
let in the minds of them must be read after the novel is heartbreaking
nor depressive, but full of soft and religious consolation and truer
morality and higher.

And when this does not preclude, but agrees and arranges to entertainment pleasant to work in
this class have to bring with you (because if you were bored moral, morals become immoral, as it would
morally odious), these works deserve applause and meet business and discreetly in order to be proposed
novelist, delighting and teaching time, not annoy the spirit, without giving us a hard time, not
sad or oppress hearts.

I think the novel Mr. Montoto dutifully performed the said purpose. Therefore I am to celebrate, send
the author my warmest congratulations, and I get excited, as far
as my approval and reach my praise, to continue writing stories with
the wisdom that can be expected which already warns The four pennies
and celebrate.


Vague hungers by the way are incidents of no more permanent importance than one's periodical
colds in the head. To complain of intellectual barrenness in any given environment must surely
be to confess intellectual barrenness in the complainant. I am well placed here in my bush
hermitage. And, in short, Je suis, je reste!

IX

It is just thirteen days since I sat down before these papers, pen in hand; thirteen days since
I wrote a word. A few months ago I suppose such delay would have worried me a good deal. To-day,
for some reason, the fact seems quite unimportant, and does not distress me in the least. Have
I then advanced so far towards self-comprehension as to have attained content of mind? Or is
this merely the mental lethargy which follows bodily weakness and exhaustion? I do not know.

I have been ill again. It is a nuisance having to send for a doctor, because his fees are extremely
high, and he has to come a good long way. Also, I do not think the good man's visits are of
the slightest service to me. I have been living for twelve days exclusively upon milk; a healing
diet, I dare say, but I have come to weary of the taste and sight of it, and its effect upon
me is the reverse of stimulation. But I am in no wise inclined to cavil, for I am entirely
free from pain at the moment; the weather is perfectly glorious, and my neighbours, Blades
and his wife, are in their homely fashion extremely kind to me.

My one source of embarrassment is that Ash, the timber-getter in the camp across the creek,
is continually bringing me expensive bottles of Simpkins's Red Marvel, his genuine kindness
necessitating not only elaborate pretences of regularly consuming his pernicious specific for
every human ill, from consumption and 'bad legs' to snake-bites, but also periodical discussions
with him of all my confounded symptoms--a topic which wearies me almost to tears. Indeed, I
prefer the symptoms of Ash's friend in Newtown--or was it Balmain?--who was 'all et up with
sores, something horrible.'

Notwithstanding the brilliant sunshine and cloudless skies of this month, the weather has been
exquisitely fresh and cool, and my log fire has never once been allowed to go out, Blades,
with the kindness of a man who can respect another's fads, having kept me richly supplied with
logs. Mrs. Blades has been feeding Punch for me, and at least twice each day that genial rascal
has neighed long and loudly at the slip-rails by the stable, as I believe in friendly greeting
to me. The language Atticism is
general, and has a particular liking for epigrams and proverbs. Morality in customs is far
superior to that of the entire Arab Spain. The characters are flat or little squeamish but
tenacious, quiet, but sincere and loyal, very little bold, or little initiative, but strong
and thoughtful value.

Of the Catalan population is little that I have to say after the general description type I,
Chapter VI, Part 3. In all these organizations is strong. Is a hardy, prolific and enterprising,
as all happy from crosses. His personality is so strong, as strong and severe their probity. Its
value as indomitable as their spirit of independence.
I am not rich enough to indulge in what folk here call 'A trip Home.' And as for finally withdrawing
from my 'way out,' and returning to settle in England, how could such a step possibly be justified
upon practical grounds? The circumstances which led me to leave England are fundamentally as
they were. Mrs. Oldcastle-- But all that was thoroughly thought out before she left the Oronta
at Adelaide; and to-day I am less--less able, shall I say, than I was then? 

Those unhappy, that within two or three hours a horrific form jumble of charred bodies, climbed into the
cage and listened to his statements, some impassive, others wild with terror and hand shaking in
the green candle lit.

Gulina was dragged like a dead person, the fear made her recant their beliefs. In contrast, Aixa, away
from the religious, went up the steps to solving mystery of sleepwalkers. Ramiro heard surprised
that was condemned as relapsed, having been reconciled, five years earlier, in a autillo of
Murcia. The platform, roofs, balconies, of all plaza, thousands of voices inciting repentance,
but many who wanted to see it burn on the hearth without it being strangled before, protesting
loudly. It was not possible to start one word, and when the priest who accompanied the Green
Cross said covered dark veil, she turned her face extending his right arm with a gesture of loathing.
So terrible roar, like the explosion of a mine exploded while all the Zocodover. Could be
heard ranting brutal and filthy. Some villagers rubbed their Galician eyes with her charms
jet or the cross of his rosary, and prayed aloud high. Along with Ramiro fed a beautiful village
with Retintos hair flattened on the forehead and ears covered by large silver cones, relentlessly
shouting, "A bewitching devils! A bewitching devils! "
 At all events it brings a strong citrus scent this way, after bustling
across the side of Blades's hill.

There can be no doubt about it that this mine hermitage is very beautifully situated. Any man
of discernment should be well content here to bide. The air about me is full of a nimble sweetness,
and as utterly free from impurity as the air one breathes in mid-ocean. More, it is impregnated
by the tonic perfumes of all the myriad aromatic growths that surround my cottage. Men say
the Australian bush is singularly soulless; starkly devoid of the elements of interest and
romance which so strongly endear to the hearts of those dwelling there the countryside in such
Old World lands as the England of my birth. Maybe. Yet I have met men, both native-born and
alien-born, who have dearly loved Australia; loved the land so well as to return to it, even
after many days.

England! Of all the place names, the names of countries that the world has known, was ever
one so simply magic as this--England? Surely not. How the tongue caresses it! In the past it
has always seemed to me that the question of a man's place of birth was infinitely more significant
and important than the mere matter of where he died, of where his bones were laid. And yet,
even that matter of the resting-place for a man's bones.... Undoubtedly, there is magic in
English earth. England! Thank God I was born in England!

EDITOR'S NOTE

Here the written record of my friend's life ends, though it clearly was not part of his design
that this should be its end. Thanks to Mrs. Blades, I have a record of the date of Freydon's
last writing. It came two days before his own end. He died alone, and, by the estimate of the
doctor from Peterborough, at about daybreak. The doctor thought it likely that he passed away
in his sleep; of all ends, the one he would have chosen. What gesture, what word it could regain his good looks?

All Beatrice asked to dance, and she apologized weakly. His eyes glowed as fireflies, and the
extreme whiteness of her skin overcame darkness, like the lily night. Gallants and maidens spoke
artificial language. Each pair slipped a concept with exquisite hurry, the sun, moon, stars were used
to express in countless ways, excuses, complaints, returns.

It would probably be correct to say that the writings of Nicholas Freydon never have reached
the many-headed public, whose favour gives an author's name weight in circulating libraries
and among the gentlemen of 'The Trade.' He had no illusions on this point, and of late years
at all events cherished no dreams of fame or immortality. But it is equally correct to say
that he was genuinely a man of letters, and there is a circle of more or less fastidious readers
who are aware that everything published under Freydon's name was, from the literary standpoint,
worth while.

For me the news of Freydon's end had something more than literary significance. There was a
period during which we shared an office room, and I recall with peculiar satisfaction the fact
that it was no kind of friction or difficulty between us which brought an end to that working
companionship. The much longer period over which our friendship extended was marred by no quarrel,
nor even by any lapse into mutual indifference. And it may be admitted, in all affectionate
respect, that Freydon was not exactly of those who are said to 'get on with any one.'

In the matter of my own recent journey to Australia, the thing which I looked forward to with
keenest interest was the opportunity I thought it would afford me of seeing and talking with
Freydon, in his chosen retreat in the Antipodes, and judging of his welfare there. Orleans is one of the first capital of the second order in France, for the importance of his
administration, his vast industry and agriculture and other social conditions, but is it, after
Paris, the most historic of French cities. Their land was, according to the general opinion of
antiquarians, the seat of Genabum taken and destroyed by Caesar. Reedificóla Emperor Aurelian,
who gave his name, and was gathered by the kingdom Childeric of the Franks. Capital at the time
of the duchy of Burgundy, Hugh Capet has incorporated his crown, and later came to be the
heritage of the house of Valois and base of the industry actual Orleans whose secular struggles with
the branch staff have been so interesting in the history of France and still survive. It was
there where the famous heroine Joan of Arc defeated the English invaders earning the nickname of
Maid of Orleans, and that cost him a celebrity martyrdom at the stake in Rouen. Religious fanaticism
has paid almost always such as large acts of devotion and heroism sublime.

- The night had come when the train played in the small town of Etampes (of 8,000 souls) that belongs
to the department of Seine-and-Oise, strong 490.000 inhabitants, and whose capital is the famous
and historic Versailles. The train was running in the darkness of the countryside with the
speed of the hurricane, and soon realized, by the immense illumination that shone the valley
of the Seine, which was at the gates of Paris and had completed my
journey. I cannot claim to know what Freydon's intentions
may have been regarding the ultimate disposition of these papers, having literally no other
information on the point than they themselves furnish. Needless to say they would not be published
now if I had any kind of reason to believe, or to suspect, that my friend would have resented
such a course.

But I will say that, in the writing, I do not think Freydon had considered the question of
publication. I do not think that in these last exercises of his pen he wrote consciously for
the printer and the public. As those who know his published work are aware, he was much given
to literary allusiveness and to quotation. In these papers such characteristic pages did occur,
it is true, but in practically every case they had been scrawled over in pencil, and have been
studiously omitted by me in my preparation of the manuscript for the press. 

Similia similibus

A LUIS CASTILLO LEDON.

                

As died the famous homeopath Dr. Idiáquez, I can preserve the secrecy
imposed on me under my word.

Exactly ten years ago began the strange illness that prompted my visit to that optional, and
whose rapid healing was the first step of his fame. From childhood I was sick and weak, so
I can say without much exaggeration, that all my children and half my youth were spent in doctors'
offices. Indeed, it was a wonder to all my it was me living relatives. Just turned thirty years,
I began to suffer the most acute headaches imaginable, which every
day increased the degree of me real life a martyrdom. At these points then, where the writer
himself paused, I have allowed the pause to appear. And this, in effect, represents the sum
of my small contribution to the volume; for I have altered nothing, added nothing, and taken
nothing away, beyond those previously mentioned passages (literary rather than documentary)
which the author's own pencil had marked for deletion; the removal, where these occurred, of
references to myself; and the substitution, where that seemed desirable, of imaginary proper
names for the names of actual places and living people as written by my friend.

Two other points, and the task which for me has certainly been a labour of love, is done. 

If Scripture was not of divine origin, how could you explain that Isaiah prophesied that Jesus
born of a virgin and had to be in Bethlehem? How could the same Isaiah century Ciro and a
half before pointing to it as the liberator of the Jews? How could Daniel, under the rule of
Nebuchadnezzar, prophesy the birth of Alexander the Great and many peculiarities its history?

Who ran with violence P. Gil these compelling questions being alone? A invisible heresiarch
it hissing like a serpent replied: "The different books the Bible are written by men, like all
other divine origin attributed the Koran, Vedas, etc. They are compilations of writings of
various genres and eras. But, by virtue of the payment then made, he was
assured of a passage home when he should choose to claim it. To my mind this discovery was
one of peculiar interest, considered in the light of the concluding pages of that record of
Nicholas Freydon's thoughts and experiences which is presented in this volume.

