Having learned from your lordship and other lawyers of undoubted abilities, that no judge ought
by threats or circumvention to make a grand-juryman discover the king's counsel his fellows'
or his own I should not at present say anything in support of that position. But that I find
a most ridiculous and false explanation seem to mislead some men in that point: Say they, by
the word counsel is understood, such bills as are before the grand jury and the evidence the
prosecutors for the crown have to support the charge against the subject--Lest that being known
the party indictable may fly from justice, or he may procure false witnesses to discredit the
evidence for the king, or he may by bribes and other indirect measures take off the witnesses
for the crown.

I confess I take that to be the meaning of the word counsel, but I am certain that is not all
that is meant by it, that is what must be understood when it is called the king's counsel,
id est, the counsel or reasons for which the king by his servants, his attorney-general or
coroner, has drawn and sent to the grand jury a charge against a subject.

But the counsel of a juror is a different thing, it is the evidence, the motives and reasons
that induce him or his fellow-jurors to say billa vera or ignoramus, and the opinion he or
they happen to be of when the question is put by the foreman for finding or not finding: This
counsel every man is sworn to keep secret, that so their opinion and advice may not be of prejudice
to them hereafter, That as they are sworn to act without favour or affection, so may they also
act without FEAR. Whereas, were it otherwise the spirit of revenge is so universal, there are
but few cases wherein a juror could act with safety to himself; either the prosecuted, as where
the bill is found, or the prosecutor, where it is returned ignoramus, may contrive to defame
the jurors who differ from them in opinion: As I am told has happened to some very honest citizens
who are represented to be Jacobites since their opinions were know to be against ----. And
sometimes revenge or ambition may prompt men to carry it further, as in the case of Mr. Wilmer,
who in King Charles 2d's time was very severely handled for being one of an ignoramus jury.----
'Tis not necessary to say whom he disobliged by being so.----But if I remember right his case
was this.

He was a merchant, (and as I said, an ignoramus juryman) had covenanted with a servant boy
to serve him in the West Indies, and accordingly sent him beyond sea: Upon suggestion and affidavit
by which any person might have it, a writ de homine replegiando was granted against Mr. Wilmer;
the sheriffs would have returned on the writ the agreement and the boy's consent, but the court
(in the case of this Wilmer) Easter 34, Cha. 2. [i.e., Charles the Second] in B.R. ruled they
must return replegiari fecimus or elongavit, that is, they had replevy'd the boy, or that Wilmer
had carried him away where they could not find him, in which last case Mr. Wilmer, though an
innocent person must have gone to gaol until he brought the boy into court or he must have
been outlawed--Shower's Rep. 2 Part.

I do not say this that I think the same thing will be practised again, or anything like it,
though I know that very homely proverb, "More ways of killing a dog than hanging him."--But
I instance it to shew, the counsels of every grand juryman should be kept secret, that he may
act freely and without apprehensions of resentment from the prosecuted or prosecutor.

