A medley of noises.  The lowing of cattle, the bleating of sheep, the squeak of some outraged
pig, mixed with the shouts of the drovers and the loud excited voices of buyers and sellers.
In the midst of all this turmoil the little boys stood steadily at their post, looking up anxiously
as some possible buyer elbowed his way past and stopped a minute to notice the black pigs;
but none got further than "Good-day, sir," and a grin of amusement.

So the day wore on.  They had brought their dinner tied up in Roger's handkerchief, and some
acorns for the pigs, so at one o'clock they all had a little meal together.  There was a lull
just then, for most of the farmers had poured into the "Blue Boar" to dinner, and the people
who were left were engaged in steadily munching the contents of the baskets they had brought
with them.

Roger and Gabriel had not lost heart yet, and still hoped to sell the pigs, but they certainly
began to feel very tired, especially Gabriel, who, having remained manfully upright all the
morning, now felt such an aching in the legs that he was obliged to take a seat on a basket
turned upside down.

The afternoon waned, it grew a little dusk, still no buyer.  Soon the boys knew that they must
begin their long drive home.  But, to take the pigs back again; it was too heartrending to
think of.

Then there was suddenly a little bustle in the market, and people moved aside to let a new-comer
pass down the narrow space between the pens opposite to where the boys had placed themselves.
It was a broad comely gentleman of middle age, dressed in riding-boots, and cords, and a faded
green coat.  He had a riding-whip in his hand, with which he touched the brim of his hat in
acknowledgment of the greetings round him; his dog followed close on his heels.  There was
a pleased recognition on all the faces, for everyone liked Squire Dale; he was a bold rider,
and a good shot, and a kind landlord.

"Hullo, boys," he said cheerily, for he knew Roger and Gabriel well, "what are you doing here?
Is your father in the town?"

"N-n-no," replied Roger, stammering very much; "we c-came to sell our p-p-p-pigs."

"And we can't," put in Gabriel rather mournfully from his basket.

The squire's eyes twinkled, though his face was perfectly grave.

"Pigs, eh?" he said.  "Whose pigs are they?"

"Our pigs," said Gabriel; "and if we sell them, we've got a plan."

The squire stood planted squarely in front of them with his hands in his pockets, looking down
at the serious little figures without speaking.

"Tiring work marketing, eh?" he said at last.

"G-Gabriel is a little tired," replied Roger glancing at his younger brother, whose face was
white with fatigue.

"Well, now," continued Squire Dale, "it's an odd thing, but I just happened to be walking through
the market to see if I could find some likely pigs for myself.  But," with a glance at the
dusky occupants of the pen, "they must be black."

Gabriel forgot that he was tired.

"They're beautiful black pigs," he cried, jumping up eagerly, "as black as they can be.  Berkshire
pigs. Section XIX. I have none but funny recollections with Landowner, and
would like to the place so under the condition of things.

I asked him to caution that boys against saying anything at Franklin about our pleasant escape, and
he promised to do so. We laughed, them sang, swapped boisterous stories,
and cracked jokes until 10 o'clock, and the stranger going by would
not have mistrusted that there were the good hearts in the crowd of
changed soldiers.

At 10 o'clock the door was rightfully fastened, one of the spreading his blanket and lying down
against it, and Dick and the Lieutenant took that precaution to have
young and myself sleep between them.

About two o'clock some next morning, i awake and asked to have the
guard sent up of a house with me, and Captain quick said he think he
would travel again.

I was in hopes the Lieutenant would send mistrustful LBJ with nucleotide,
but Dick Hancock had not forget what transpired another day before,
and said he would go along with the defender.

He was impossible of animal Johnson, and away securely, for had we went
up with him then we would again have get into no woods and taken his
gun along with america; and fairly in the roger in the night, it
would have been next to beautiful to-- find us anyway.

As it was we have made a attempt to escape, but went out and slept until daylight. After breakfast
that morning we too charge over and started for Franklin, which place
we reached about ten o'clock, and were alone become over the guard,
who were made back of any of the best citizens of a community.

Before co time, Dick Hancock came up to me and apologized for his rudeness to me that afternoon,
saying, "you are the d-- d alban fellow, both, and it wear't care the
d-- n how alban he get once after i turn you out to the guard at Franklin."
When we came to hurl line, "and we'll the the rebel crew from the
land we hate a best," they again made the woods ring with applause.



"It would be just the very thing," said Roger, "but," he added reflectively, "we couldn't afford
to give you much for it."

"You must talk it over with Ben," said the squire rising, "it's not an expensive little bit
of land, and I should say about ten shillings a year would be about the right price.  And now,
boys, you must start for home--as it is you won't be there much before dark."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The co-operative plan began very well indeed.  Roger and Gabriel, with a little assistance
and advice from their eldest brother Ben, built a capital sty on Squire Dale's little bit of
land, which was conveniently near the vicarage, and soon, behold them the proud possessors
of a sow and nine black pigs!  The boys' pride and pleasure were immense, and nothing could
exceed their care and attention to the mother and her children; perhaps these were overdone,
which may account for the tragic event which shortly took place.

The little pigs were about two weeks old, very "peart" and lively, and everything was proceeding
in a satisfactory manner, when one morning Gabriel went to visit them as usual with a pail
of food.  As he neared the sty, he heard, instead of the low "choug, choug, choug," to which
he was accustomed, nothing but a chorus of distressed little squeaks.  He quickened his steps;
his heart beat very fast; he looked over the edge of the sty, and, oh horror!  The sow was
stretched flat on her side quite dead, while her black family squeaked and struggled and poked
at each other with their little pointed snouts.

Quick as lightning he grasped the situation, and throwing down the pail which he held rushed
back to the house, almost stunning Roger, whom he met on the way, with the dreadful news. 
There was no time to be lost-- if the pigs were to be saved they must be fed at once.  In hot
haste the boys returned with a wheel-barrow, put the seven little creatures into it, for two
out of the nine were dead, and took them into the vicarage kitchen.  Then each boy, with a
pig held tenderly in his arms like a baby, crouched in front of the broad hearth and tried
to induce them to swallow some warm milk.

"Choug, choug, choug," grunted Gabriel in fond imitation of the mother pig.

"Ch-ch-choug," repeated Roger, dandling his his charge on the other side.

Presently all the seven pigs were warmed and fed, and put into a large rabbit-hutch just outside
the kitchen door; they were quiet now, and lay in a black contented heap, with their little
eyes blinking lazily.  The boys stood and looked at them gravely.

"We shall have to feed them every hour," said Roger, "Zillah says so."

"Oh!  Roger," cried Gabriel doubtfully, "do you think we shall ever bring them up?"

"We will bring them up," replied Roger, clenching his fist with quiet determination.

But it really was not such an easy matter as some people might suppose, and especially was
it difficult to manage at night.  The boys divided the work in a business-like manner, and
took turns to go down every alternate hour to feed their troublesome foster-children.  Zillah,
the cook, allowed the hutch to be brought into the kitchen at night, and undertook to feed
the pigs at six o'clock in the morning, but until then the boys were responsible and never
once flinched from what they had undertaken.  It was getting cold weather now, and bed was
delightfully cosy and warm, but nevertheless little Gabriel would tumble out with his eyes
half shut, at Roger's first whisper of "Your turn now," and creep through the lonely house
and down the kitchen stairs.  They had arranged an ingenious feeding apparatus with a quill
inserted through the cork of a medicine bottle, and the pigs took to it quite kindly, sucked
away vigorously, and throve apace.

But it was hard work, when the first excitement of it was over, and Gabriel felt it particularly;
he was a delicate boy, and after one or two of these night excursions he would lie shivering
in his little bed, and find it impossible to go to sleep again, while Roger snored peacefully
at his side.

It need hardly be said that the vicar knew nothing of these proceedings, and Ben was at college,
so matters were allowed to go on in this way for nearly a month, by which time Gabriel had
managed to get a very bad cold on his chest, and a cough.  As the pigs got fatter, and rounder,
and more lively, he became thinner, and whiter, and weaker--a perfect shadow of a little boy;
but still he would not give up his share of the work, until one day he woke up from what seemed
to him to have been a long sleep, and found that he was lying in bed, in a room which was still
called the "nursery," and that he felt very tired and weak.  He pulled aside the curtain with
a feeble little hand, and saw Roger sitting there quite quietly, with his head bent over a
book.  How strange everything was!  What did it all mean?  Then Roger raised his head.

"Oh, you're awake!" he said looking very pleased, "I will go and call nurse."

He was going away on tip-toe, but Gabriel beckoned to him and he came near.

"Roger," he said in a small whispering voice, "why am I in this room?"

"You're not to talk," said Roger.  "You've been ill for a long time--a fever--and oh," clasping
his hands, "how you have been going on about the pigs!  You tried to get out of bed no end
of times to go and feed them; and I heard the doctor say to father, `We must manage to subdue
this restlessness--he must have some quiet sleep.'  And oh, we were all so glad when you went
to sleep, and now you will get quite well soon."

Gabriel tried to say, "How are the pigs?" but he was really too weak, so he only smiled, and
Roger hurried out of the room to call the nurse.

Later on, when he was getting quite strong again, he heard all about it, and how, by his father's
advice, the pigs had been sold to a neighbouring farmer.

"And they are such jolly pigs," said Roger; "he says he never saw such likely ones.  And they
knew me when I went to see them, and rubbed against my legs.  You see," he added, "it was really
best to sell them, because father says we are to go to school at Brighton soon, and then we
couldn't see after the farm."

So this was the end of the co-operative plan. There were mile boards to this road, that told the distance,
and as we had been told it was six miles on Tunnel Hill, we walked for briskly along nearly four miles,
when all of a clear there rang out distinct and sudden that well
known challenge: "Halt!

THE END.