Then, as I was watching him, all at once the boy sprang up, and he seemed to see a light before
him, so straight on did he walk: many crossed his path and jostled against him, but he cared
not; he heard the sweet voice plainer and plainer, like the soft murmuring of the cushat dove
in the early summer, and he would follow where it led.  Hitherto his pathway had been smooth,
and he had hastened along it; but this did not last, for now it narrowed almost to a line,
and ran straight between two horrible pitfalls; so he paused for a moment; but the roaring
of a lion was behind him, and forward he pressed.  It was a sore passage for Irrgeist, for
the whole ground was strewed with thorns, which pierced his feet at every step, and the sparks
from the fire-pits flew ever round him, and now and then fell in showers over him.  Neither
did he hear now the pleasant sound of the voice of kindness; whether it were that it had died
away, he knew not, or whether it were that the crackling and roaring of the fierce flames,
and the voice of the beasts behind, and his own groans and crying, drowned its soft music,
so that he heard it not.

I had looked at him until I could bear it no more; for the path seemed to grow narrower and
narrower; the flames from the two pits already almost touched; and I could not endure to see,
as I feared I should, the little one, whom I had watched, become the prey of their devouring
fierceness. So, with a bitter groan for Irrgeist, I turned me back to the road to see how it
fared with Furchtsam and Gehulfe.

They had fallen far behind the others from the first.  Poor little Furchtsam had a trembling
tottering gait; and as he walked, he looked on this side and on that, as if every step was
dangerous.  This led him often to look off his book of light, and then it would shut up its
leaves, and then his little lamp grew dimmer and dimmer, and his feet stumbled, and he trembled
so, that he almost dropped his staff out of his hands.  Yet still he kept the right path, only
he got along it very slowly and with pain.

Whether it was that Gehulfe was too tender spirited to leave him, or why else, I know not,
but he kept close by the little trembler, and seemed ever waiting to help him.  Many a time
did he catch him by the hand when he was ready to fall, and speak to him a word of comfort,
when without it he would have sunk down through fear.  So they got on together, and now they
came to the part of the pathway which the evil enchantress haunted. She used all her skill
upon them, and brought up before their eyes all the visions she could raise; sunshine, and
singing-birds, and waving boughs, and green grass, and sparkling water, they all passed before
their eyes,--but they heeded them not: once, indeed, poor Furchtsam for a moment looked with
a longing eye at the painted sunshine, as if its warm light would have driven off some of his
fears; but it was but for a moment.  And as for Gehulfe, whether it was that he was reading
his book of light too closely, or trimming too carefully his lamp, or helping too constantly
his trembling friend, for some cause or other he scarcely seemed to see the visions which the
sorceress had spread around him.  So when she had tried all her skill for a season, and found
it in vain, she vanished altogether from them, and they saw her no more.  But their dangers
were not over yet.  When Gottlieb passed along this road, he had gone on so boldly, that I
had not noticed how fearful it was in parts to any giddy head or fainting heart.  But now I
saw well how it terrified Furchtsam.  For here it seemed to rise straight up to a dangerous
height, and to become so narrow at the same time, and to be so bare of any side- wall or parapet,
that it was indeed a giddy thing to pass along it.