Sure of such active assistance on shore, Yawkins demeaned himself so boldly that his mere name
was a terror to the officers of the revenue. He availed himself of the fears which his presence
inspired on one particular night, when, happening to be ashore with a considerable quantity
of goods in his sole custody, a strong party of excisemen came down on him. Far from shunning
the attack, Yawkins sprung forward, shouting, 'Come on, my lads; Yawkins is before you.' The
revenue officers were intimidated and relinquished their prize, though defended only by the
courage and address of a single man. On his proper element Yawkins was equally successful.
On one occasion he was landing his cargo at the Manxman's Lake near Kirkcudbright, when two
revenue cutters (the 'Pigmy' and the 'Dwarf') hove in sight at once on different tacks, the
one coming round by the Isles of Fleet, the other between the point of Rueberry and the Muckle
Ron. The dauntless freetrader instantly weighed anchor and bore down right between the luggers,
so close that he tossed his hat on the deck of the one and his wig on that of the other, hoisted
a cask to his maintop, to show his occupation, and bore away under an extraordinary pressure
of canvass, without receiving injury. To account for these and other hairbreadth escapes, popular
superstition alleged that Yawkins insured his celebrated buckkar by compounding with the devil
for one-tenth of his crew every voyage. How they arranged the separation of the stock and tithes
is left to our conjecture. The buckkar was perhaps called the 'Black Prince' in honour of the
formidable insurer.

The 'Black Prince' used to discharge her cargo at Luce, Balcarry, and elsewhere on the coast;
but her owner's favourite landing- places were at the entrance of the Dee and the Cree, near
the old Castle of Rueberry, about six miles below Kirkcudbright. There is a cave of large dimensions
in the vicinity of Rueberry, which, from its being frequently used by Yawkins and his supposed
connexion with the smugglers on the shore, is now called Dirk Hatteraick's Cave. Strangers
who visit this place, the scenery of which is highly romantic, are also shown, under the name
of the Gauger's Loup, a tremendous precipice, being the same, it is asserted, from which Kennedy
was precipitated.

Meg Merrilies is in Galloway considered as having had her origin in the traditions concerning
the celebrated Flora Marshal, one of the royal consorts of Willie Marshal, more commonly called
the Caird of Barullion, King of the Gipsies of the Western Lowlands. That potentate was himself
deserving of notice from the following peculiarities:--He was born in the parish of Kirkmichael
about the year 1671; and, as he died at Kirkcudbright 23d November 1792, he must then have
been in the one hundred and twentieth year of his age. It cannot be said that this unusually
long lease of existence was noted by any peculiar excellence of conduct or habits of life.
Willie had been pressed or enlisted in the army seven times, and had deserted as often; besides
three times running away from the naval service. He had been seventeen times lawfully married;
and, besides, such a reasonably large share of matrimonial comforts, was, after his hundredth
year, the avowed father of four children by less legitimate affections. He subsisted in his
extreme old age by a pension from the present Earl of Selkirk's grandfather. Will Marshal is
buried in Kirkcudbright church, where his monument is still shown, decorated with a scutcheon
suitably blazoned with two tups' horns and two cutty spoons.

In his youth he occasionally took an evening walk on the highway, with the purpose of assisting
travellers by relieving them of the weight of their purses. On one occasion the Caird of Barullion
robbed the Laird of Bargally at a place between Carsphairn and Dalmellington. His purpose was
not achieved without a severe struggle, in which the gipsy lost his bonnet, and was obliged
to escape, leaving it on the road. A respectable farmer happened to be the next passenger,
and, seeing the bonnet, alighted, took it up, and rather imprudently put it on his own head.
At this instant Bargally came up with some assistants, and, recognising the bonnet, charged
the farmer of Bantoberick with having robbed him, and took him into custody. There being some
likeness between the parties, Bargally persisted in his charge, and, though the respectability
of the farmer's character was proved or admitted, his trial before the Circuit Court came on
accordingly. The fatal bonnet lay on the table of the court. Bargally swore that it was the
identical article worn by the man who robbed him; and he and others likewise deponed that they
had found the accused on the spot where the crime was committed, with the bonnet on his head.
The case looked gloomily for the prisoner, and the opinion of the judge seemed unfavourable.
But there was a person in court who knew well both who did and who did not commit the crime.
This was the Caird of Barullion, who, thrusting himself up to the bar near the place where
Bargally was standing, suddenly seized on the bonnet, put it on his head, and, looking the
Laird full in the face, asked him, with a voice which attracted the attention of the court
and crowded audience--'Look at me, sir, and tell me, by the oath you have sworn--Am not I the
man who robbed you between Carsphairn and Dalmellington?' Bargally replied, in great astonishment,
'By Heaven! you are the very man.' 'You see what sort of memory this gentleman has,' said the
volunteer pleader; 'he swears to the bonnet whatever features are under it. If you yourself,
my Lord, will put it on your head, he will be willing to swear that your Lordship was the party
who robbed him between Carsphairn and Dalmellington.' The tenant of Bantoberick was unanimously
acquitted; and thus Willie Marshal ingeniously contrived to save an innocent man from danger,
without incurring any himself, since Bargally's evidence must have seemed to every one too
fluctuating to be relied upon.

While the King of the Gipsies was thus laudably occupied, his royal consort, Flora, contrived,
it is said, to steal the hood from the judge's gown; for which offence, combined with her presumptive
guilt as a gipsy, she was banished to New England, whence she never returned.

Now, I cannot grant that the idea of Meg Merrilies was, in the first concoction of the character,
derived from Flora Marshal, seeing I have already said she was identified with Jean Gordon,
and as I have not the Laird of Bargally's apology for charging the same fact on two several
individuals. Yet I am quite content that Meg should be considered as a representative of her
sect and class in general, Flora as well as others.

The other instances in which my Gallovidian readers have obliged me by assigning to

     Airy nothing
     A local habitation and a name,

shall also be sanctioned so far as the Author may be entitled to do so. I think the facetious
Joe Miller records a case pretty much in point; where the keeper of a museum, while showing,
as he said, the very sword with which Balaam was about to kill his ass, was interrupted by
one of the visitors, who reminded him that Balaam was not possessed of a sword, but only wished
for one. 'True, sir,' replied the ready-witted cicerone; 'but this is the very sword he wished
for.' The Author, in application of this story, has only to add that, though ignorant of the
coincidence between the fictions of the tale and some real circumstances, he is contented to
believe he must unconsciously have thought or dreamed of the last while engaged in the composition
of Guy Mannering. Marvel,' IDLER, No. 49.

It was in the beginning of the month of November 17--when a young English gentleman, who had
just left the university of Oxford, made use of the liberty afforded him to visit some parts
of the north of England; and curiosity extended his tour into the adjacent frontier of the
sister country. He had visited, on the day that opens our history, some monastic ruins in the
county of Dumfries, and spent much of the day in making drawings of them from different points,
so that, on mounting his horse to resume his journey, the brief and gloomy twilight of the
season had already commenced. His way lay through a wide tract of black moss, extending for
miles on each side and before him. Little eminences arose like islands on its surface, bearing
here and there patches of corn, which even at this season was green, and sometimes a hut or
farm-house, shaded by a willow or two and surrounded by large elder-bushes. These insulated
dwellings communicated with each other by winding passages through the moss, impassable by
any but the natives themselves. The public road, however, was tolerably well made and safe,
so that the prospect of being benighted brought with it no real danger. Still it is uncomfortable
to travel alone and in the dark through an unknown country; and there are few ordinary occasions
upon which Fancy frets herself so much as in a situation like that of Mannering.

As the light grew faint and more faint, and the morass appeared blacker and blacker, our traveller
questioned more closely each chance passenger on his distance from the village of Kippletringan,
where he proposed to quarter for the night. His queries were usually answered by a counter-challenge
respecting the place from whence he came. While sufficient daylight remained to show the dress
and appearance of a gentleman, these cross interrogatories were usually put in the form of
a case supposed, as, 'Ye'll hae been at the auld abbey o' Halycross, sir? there's mony English
gentlemen gang to see that.'--Or, 'Your honour will be come frae the house o' Pouderloupat?'
But when the voice of the querist alone was distinguishable, the response usually was, 'Where
are ye coming frae at sic a time o' night as the like o' this?'--or, 'Ye'll no be o' this country,
freend?' The answers, when obtained, were neither very reconcilable to each other nor accurate
in the information which they afforded. Kippletringan was distant at first 'a gey bit'; then
the 'gey bit' was more accurately described as 'ablins three mile'; then the 'three mile' diminished
into 'like a mile and a bittock'; then extended themselves into 'four mile or thereawa'; and,
lastly, a female voice, having hushed a wailing infant which the spokeswoman carried in her
arms, assured Guy Mannering, 'It was a weary lang gate yet to Kippletringan, and unco heavy
road for foot passengers.' The poor hack upon which Mannering was mounted was probably of opinion
that it suited him as ill as the female respondent; for he began to flag very much, answered
each application of the spur with a groan, and stumbled at every stone (and they were not few)
which lay in his road.

