Then it all broke loose again.  And who re-started it?  The Bird of Birds the Indian crow.
I came to know him well, by and by, and be infatuated with him.  I suppose he is the hardest
lot that wears feathers.  Yes, and the cheerfulest, and the best satisfied with himself.  He
never arrived at what he is by any careless process, or any sudden one; he is a work of art,
and "art is long"; he is the product of immemorial ages, and of deep calculation; one can't
make a bird like that in a day.  He has been reincarnated more times than Shiva; and he has
kept a sample of each incarnation, and fused it into his constitution.  In the course of his
evolutionary promotions, his sublime march toward ultimate perfection, he has been a gambler,
a low comedian, a dissolute priest, a fussy woman, a blackguard, a scoffer, a liar, a thief,
a spy, an informer, a trading politician, a swindler, a professional hypocrite, a patriot for
cash, a reformer, a lecturer, a lawyer, a conspirator, a rebel, a royalist, a democrat, a practicer
and propagator of irreverence, a meddler, an intruder, a busybody, an infidel, and a wallower
in sin for the mere love of it.  The strange result, the incredible result, of this patient
accumulation of all damnable traits is, that be does not know what care is, he does not know
what sorrow is, he does not know what remorse is, his life is one long thundering ecstasy of
happiness, and he will go to his death untroubled, knowing that he will soon turn up again
as an author or something, and be even more intolerably capable and comfortable than ever he
was before.

In his straddling wide forward-step, and his springy side-wise series of hops, and his impudent
air, and his cunning way of canting his head to one side upon occasion, he reminds one of the
American blackbird.  But the sharp resemblances stop there.  He is much bigger than the blackbird;
and he lacks the blackbird's trim and slender and beautiful build and shapely beak; and of
course his sober garb of gray and rusty black is a poor and humble thing compared with the
splendid lustre of the blackbird's metallic sables and shifting and flashing bronze glories. All are reported behavior the servants
they will receive at home, and one of those people they are dealing with and intimate with his
wife and daughters, provided that such persons to save face and not frowned upon in the world.
  I never saw such
a bird for delivering opinions.  Nothing escapes him; he notices everything that happens, and
brings out his opinion about it, particularly if it is a matter that is none of his business.
And it is never a mild opinion, but always violent--violent and profane--the presence of ladies
does not affect him.  His opinions are not the outcome of reflection, for he never thinks about
anything, but heaves out the opinion that is on top in his mind, and which is often an opinion
about some quite different thing and does not fit the case. But that is his way; his main idea
is to get out an opinion, and if he stopped to think he would lose chances.

