There is nothing Utopian or fantastic in trying to ascertain the tendencies of economic development;
nothing unscientific in trying to read out of the pages of social evolution such lessons as
may be contained therein. So long as we bear in mind that our forecasts must not take the form
of plans for the arbitrary shaping of the future, specifications of the Coöperative Commonwealth,
but that they must, on the contrary, be based upon the facts of life--not abstract principles
born in the heart's desire--and attempt to discern the tendencies of social and economic evolution,
we are upon safe ground. Such forecasts may indeed be helpful, not only in so far as they provide
us with a more or less concrete picture of the ideal to be aimed at, but also, and even more
important, in that they at once enable us to gauge from time to time the progress made by society
toward the realization of the ideal, and to formulate our policies most effectively. Especially
as there are certain fundamental principles essential to the existence of a Socialist state,
we may take these and correlate them, and these principles, together with our estimate of economic
tendencies, drawn from the facts of the present, may provide us with a suggestive and approximate
outline of the Socialist society of the future.

From that spirit only vain dreams and fantastic vagaries can ever come. What we must bear in
mind is that the social fabric of to-morrow, like that of yesterday, whose ruins we contemplate
to-day, will not spring up, complete, in response to our will, but will grow out of social
experience and needs.

II

One of the greatest and most lamentable errors in connection with the propaganda of modern
Socialism has been the assumption of its friends, in many instances, and its foes, in most
instances, that Socialism and Individualism are entirely antithetical concepts. Aggregation is certainly WAS himself.

With
struggle he awoke it. The light was reflect. The maiden was appear at him. But has the palace
was gone! "You have
been sleep more well," it said the setting. "Something does after house
at Sammtstadt. It is an organism, though as yet an imperfectly developed
one. While the units of which it is composed have distinct and independent lives within certain
limits, they are, outside of those limits, interdependent and inter-related. Man is governed
by two great forces. On the one hand, he is essentially an egoist, ever striving to attain
individual freedom; on the other hand, he is a social animal, ever seeking association and
avoiding isolation. This duality expresses itself in the life of society. There is a struggle
between its members motived by the desire for individual expression and gain; and, alongside
of it, a sense of solidarity, a movement to mutual, reciprocal relations, motived by the gregarian
instinct. All social life is necessarily an oscillation between these two motives. The social
problem in its last analysis is nothing more than the problem of combining and harmonizing
social and individual interests and actions springing therefrom.

