3. It was in all probability in the Pliocene that there took origin the Neanderthal species
of man, Homo neanderthalensis, first known from remains found in 1856 in the Neanderthal ravine
near Düsseldorf. According to some authorities Neanderthal man was living in Europe a quarter
of a million years ago. Other specimens were afterwards found elsewhere, e.g. in Belgium ("the
men of Spy"), in France, in Croatia, and at Gibraltar, so that a good deal is known of Neanderthal
man. He was a loose-limbed fellow, short of stature and of slouching gait, but a skilful artificer,
fashioning beautifully worked flints with a characteristic style. He used fire; he buried his
dead reverently and furnished them with an outfit for a long journey; and he had a big brain.
But he had great beetling, ape-like eyebrow ridges and massive jaws, and he showed "simian
characters swarming in the details of his structure." In most of the points in which he differs
from modern man he approaches the anthropoid apes, and he must be regarded as a low type of
man off the main line. Huxley regarded the Neanderthal man as a low form of the modern type,
but expert opinion seems to agree rather with the view maintained in 1864 by Professor William
King of Galway, that the Neanderthal man represents a distinct species off the main line of
ascent. He disappeared with apparent suddenness (like some aboriginal races to-day) about the
end of the Fourth Great Ice Age; but there is evidence that before he ceased to be there had
emerged a successor rather than a descendant--the modern man.

4. Another offshoot from the main line is probably represented by the Piltdown man, found in
Sussex in 1912. The remains consisted of the walls of the skull, which indicate a large brain,
and a high forehead without the beetling eyebrows of the Neanderthal man and Pithecanthropus.
The "find" included a tooth and part of a lower jaw, but these perhaps belong to some ape,
for they are very discrepant. The Piltdown skull represents the most ancient human remains
as yet found in Britain, and Dr. Smith Woodward's establishment of a separate genus Eoanthropus
expresses his conviction that the Piltdown man was off the line of the evolution of the modern
type. If the tooth and piece of lower jaw belong to the Piltdown skull, then there was a remarkable
combination of ape-like and human characters. As regards the brain, inferred from the skull-walls,
Sir Arthur Keith says:

    All the essential features of the brain of modern man are to be seen
    in the brain cast. There are some which must be regarded as
    primitive. There can be no doubt that it is built on exactly the
    same lines as our modern brains. A few minor alterations would make
    it in all respects a modern brain.... Although our knowledge of the
    human brain is limited--there are large areas to which we can assign
    no definite function--we may rest assured that a brain which was
    shaped in a mould so similar to our own was one which responded to
    the outside world as ours does. Piltdown man saw, heard, felt,
    thought, and dreamt much as we do still.

And this was 150,000 years ago at a modern estimate, and some would say half a million.

There is neither agreement nor certainty as to the antiquity of man, except that the modern
type was distinguishable from its collaterals hundreds of thousands of years ago. The general
impression left is very grand. In remote antiquity the Primate stem diverged from the other
orders of mammals; it sent forth its tentative branches, and the result was a tangle of monkeys;
ages passed and the monkeys were left behind, while the main stem, still probing its way, gave
off the Anthropoid apes, both small and large. But they too were left behind, and the main
line gave off other experiments--indications of which we know in Java, at Heidelberg, in the
Neanderthal, and at Piltdown. None of these lasted or was made perfect. They represent tentative
men who had their day and ceased to be, our predecessors rather than our ancestors. Still,
the main stem goes on evolving, and who will be bold enough to say what fruit it has yet to bear!

Primitive Men

Ancient skeletons of men of the modern type have been found in many places, e.g. Combe Capelle
in Dordogne, Galley Hill in Kent, Cro-Magnon in Périgord, Mentone on the Riviera; and they
are often referred to as "Cave-men" or "men of the Early Stone Age." They had large skulls,
high foreheads, well-marked chins, and other features such as modern man possesses. They were
true men at last--that is to say, like ourselves! The spirited pictures they made on the walls
of caves in France and Spain show artistic sense and skill. Well-finished statuettes representing
nude female figures are also known. The elaborate burial customs point to a belief in life
after death. They made stone implements--knives, scrapers, gravers, and the like, of the type
known as Palæolithic, and these show interesting gradations of skill and peculiarities of style.
The "Cave-men" lived between the third and fourth Ice Ages, along with cave-bear, cave-lion,
cave-hyæna, mammoth, woolly rhinoceros, Irish elk, and other mammals now extinct--taking us
back to 30,000-50,000 years ago, and many would say much more. Some of the big-brained skulls
of these Palæolithic cave-men show not a single feature that could be called primitive. They
show teeth which in size and form are exactly the same as those of a thousand generations afterwards--and
suffering from gumboil too! There seems little doubt that these vigorous Palæolithic Cave-men
of Europe were living for a while contemporaneously with the men of Neanderthal, and it is
possible that they directly or indirectly hastened the disappearance of their more primitive
collaterals. Curiously enough, however, they had not themselves adequate lasting power in Europe,
for they seem for the most part to have dwindled away, leaving perhaps stray present-day survivors
in isolated districts. The probability is that after their decline Europe was repeopled by
immigrants from Asia. It cannot be said that there is any inherent biological necessity for
the decline of a vigorous race--many animal races go back for millions of years--but in mankind
the historical fact is that a period of great racial vigour and success is often followed by
a period of decline, sometimes leading to practical disappearance as a definite race. The causes
of this waning remain very obscure--sometimes environmental, sometimes constitutional, sometimes
competitive. Sometimes the introduction of a new parasite, like the malaria organism, may have
been to blame.

After the Ice Ages had passed, perhaps 25,000 years ago, the Palæolithic culture gave place
to the Neolithic. The men who made rudely dressed but often beautiful stone implements were
succeeded or replaced by men who made polished stone implements. The earliest inhabitants of
Scotland were of this Neolithic culture, migrating from the Continent when the ice-fields of
the Great Glaciation had disappeared. Their remains are often associated with the "Fifty-foot
Beach" which, though now high and dry, was the seashore in early Neolithic days. Much is known
about these men of the polished stones. They were hunters, fowlers, and fishermen; without
domesticated animals or agriculture; short folk, two or three inches below the present standard;
living an active strenuous life. Similarly, for the south, Sir Arthur Keith pictures for us
a Neolithic community at Coldrum in Kent, dating from about 4,000 years ago--a few ticks of
the geological clock. It consisted, in this case, of agricultural pioneers, men with large
heads and big brains, about two inches shorter in stature than the modern British average (5
ft. 8 in.), with better teeth and broader palates than men have in these days of soft food,
with beliefs concerning life and death similar to those that swayed their contemporaries in
Western and Southern Europe. Very interesting is the manipulative skill they showed on a large
scale in erecting standing stones (probably connected with calendar-keeping and with worship),
and on a small scale in making daring operations on the skull. Four thousand years ago is given
as a probable date for that early community in Kent, but evidences of Neolithic man occur in
situations which demand a much greater antiquity--perhaps 30,000 years. And man was not young then!

We must open one more chapter in the thrilling story of the Ascent of Man--the Metal Ages,
which are in a sense still continuing. Metals began to be used in the late Polished Stone (Neolithic)
times, for there were always overlappings. Copper came first, Bronze second, and Iron last. I
see thy promise to true metallurgists, and thy love of remain towards dead, even when death to
have devoured them:“ for thy experimental shall live, yea, not only shall they live, but my very
carcase shall arise;” and so i see honour and glory to succeed also
be temporal shame, i see chosen joy to come back after trouble, combination
to spring out of this terrible confusion; and, so, i see that life it
shall devour death, finally that alloy shall be destroyed, and so thy servants
shall have life.

It is not clear why iron should not have been the earliest metal to be used by man, but the
Iron Age dates from about the middle of the second millennium B.C. From Egypt the usage spread
through the Mediterranean region to North Europe, or it may have been that discoveries made
in Central Europe, so rich in iron-mines, saturated southwards, following for instance, the
route of the amber trade from the Baltic. Compared with stone, the metals afforded much greater
possibilities of implements, instruments, and weapons, and their discovery and usage had undoubtedly
great influence on the Ascent of Man. Occasionally, however, on his descent.

Retrospect

Looking backwards, we discern the following stages: (1) The setting apart of a Primate stock,
marked off from other mammals by a tendency to big brains, a free hand, gregariousness, and
good-humoured talkativeness. (2) The divergence of marmosets and New World monkeys and Old
World monkeys, leaving a stock--an anthropoid stock--common to the present-day and extinct
apes and to mankind. (3) From this common stock the Anthropoid apes diverged, far from ignoble
creatures, and a humanoid stock was set apart. (4) From the latter (we follow Sir Arthur Keith
and other authorities) there arose what may be called, without disparagement, tentative or
experimental men, indicated by Pithecanthropus "the Erect," the Heidelberg man, the Neanderthalers,
and, best of all, the early men of the Sussex Weald--hinted at by the Piltdown skull. It matters
little whether particular items are corroborated or disproved--e.g. whether the Heidelberg
man came before or after the Neanderthalers--the general trend of evolution remains clear.
(5) In any case, the result was the evolution of Homo sapiens, the man we are--a quite different
fellow from the Neanderthaler. (6) Then arose various stocks of primitive men, proving everything
and holding fast to that which is good. There were the Palæolithic peoples, with rude stone
implements, a strong vigorous race, but probably, in most cases, supplanted by fresh experiments.
These may have arisen as shoots from the growing point of the old race, or as a fresh offshoot
from more generalised members at a lower level. This is the eternal possible victory alike
of aristocracy and democracy. (7) Palæolithic men were involved in the succession of four Great
Ice Ages or Glaciations, and it may be that the human race owes much to the alternation of
hard times and easy times--glacial and interglacial. When the ice-fields cleared off Neolithic
man had his innings. (8) And we have closed the story, in the meantime, with the Metal Ages.

It seems not unfitting that we should at this point sound another note--that of the man of feeling.

Races of Mankind

Given a variable stock spreading over diverse territory, we expect to find it splitting up
into varieties which may become steadied into races or incipient species. Thus we have races
of hive-bees, "Italians," "Punics," and so forth; and thus there arose races of men. Certain
types suited certain areas, and periods of in-breeding tended to make the distinctive peculiarities
of each incipient race well-defined and stable. When the original peculiarities, say, of negro
and Mongol, Australian and Caucasian, arose as brusque variations or "mutations," then they
would have great staying power from generation to generation. They would not be readily swamped
by intercrossing or averaged off. Peculiarities and changes of climate and surroundings, not
to speak of other change-producing factors, would provoke new departures from age to age, and
so fresh racial ventures were made. Moreover, the occurrence of out-breeding when two races
met, in peace or in war, would certainly serve to induce fresh starts. Very important in the
evolution of human races must have been the alternating occurrence of periods of in-breeding
(endogamy), tending to stability and sameness, and periods of out-breeding (exogamy), tending
to changefulness and diversity.

Thus we may distinguish several more or less clearly defined primitive races of mankind--notably
the African, the Australian, the Mongolian, and the Caucasian. The woolly-haired African race
includes the negroes and the very primitive bushmen. The wavy-to curly-haired Australian race
includes the Jungle Tribes of the Deccan, the Vedda of Ceylon, the Jungle Folk or Semang, and
the natives of unsettled parts of Australia--all sometimes slumped together as "Pre-Dravidians."
The straight-haired Mongols include those of Tibet, Indo-China, China, and Formosa, those of
many oceanic islands, and of the north from Japan to Lapland. The Caucasians include Mediterraneans,
Semites, Nordics, Afghans, Alpines, and many more.

There are very few corners of knowledge more difficult than that of the Races of Men, the chief
reason being that there has been so much movement and migration in the course of the ages.
One physical type has mingled with another, inducing strange amalgams and novelties. If we
start with what might be called "zoological" races or strains differing, for instance, in their
hair (woolly-haired Africans, straight-haired Mongols, curly-or wavy-haired Pre-Dravidians
and Caucasians), we find these replaced by peoples who are mixtures of various races, "brethren
by civilisation more than by blood." As Professor Flinders Petrie has said, the only meaning
the term "race" now can have is that of a group of human beings whose type has been unified
by their rate of assimilation exceeding the rate of change produced by the infiltration of
foreign elements. It is probable, however, that the progress of precise anthropology will make
it possible to distinguish the various racial "strains" that make up any people. For the human
sense of race is so strong that it convinces us of reality even when scientific definition
is impossible. It was this the British sailor expressed in his answer to the question "What
is a Dago?" "Dagoes," he replied, "is anything wot isn't our sort of chaps."

Steps in Human Evolution

