 I am not a fool who measures the world according
to his own standard, or a churl who is for ever suspecting evil; besides, various observations
have proved to me that such a friendship is quite possible. As there exists the relation of
brother and sister, the same feeling may exist between two persons who feel as brother and
sister towards each other. Moreover, the capacity for that kind of friendship belongs to the
choicer spirits who have a natural inclination for Platonic feasts, such as poets, artists,
philosophers, and generally, people who cannot be measured by the common standard. If this
be a proof that I was not made of the stuff artists, poets, and great men are made of,--the
worse for me. Most likely it is so, since I am nothing but Leon Ploszowski. There was a time
when I felt that if Aniela had become my wife, she would not only have been my love, but also
my dearest friend. But I prefer not to think of it. Ghosts of this kind visit me far too often,
and I shall never have any peace until I banish them altogether.

4 April.

I meet Mrs. Davis here pretty often, and call upon her at her house. And nothing else! There
is some dislike, a little contempt under a thick layer of ashes, and for the rest, the usual
social intercourse. She is still too beautiful to be classified among my idiosyncrasies. I
cannot love her, and do not take the trouble to hate her. She understood that at once, and
adapted herself to circumstances. All the same she cannot always conceal her irritation at
my self-possession and cool independence; but for that very reason shows me greater consideration.
It is very strange, that easiness with which women from closest relations pass on to mere acquaintanceship.
Laura and I treat each other as if there had never been anything between us,--not only before
people, but even when we are alone together. It does not seem to cost her the slightest effort;
she is polite, cool, and self-possessed, affable in her way, and her manners influence me to
such a degree that I should never dream of calling her by her Christian name.

The Neapolitan cousin, Maleschi, used to roll his eyes so ferociously at me that I almost considered
it my duty to ask him not to injure his optics; he has now calmed down, seeing how very distant
our relations to each other are, and is very friendly towards me. He has already fought a duel
about Laura, and in spite of the reputation of coward he had in Italy, showed a deal of pluck.
Poor Davis has passed to Nirvana some months ago, and I suppose after a decent interval of
widowhood, Laura will marry Maleschi. They will make a splendid couple. The Italian has the
torso and head of an Antinous; in addition to that, a complexion like pale gold, raven black
hair, and eyes as blue as the Mediterranean. It may be that Laura loves him, but for some reason
known only to herself, she bullies him a great deal. Several times in my presence she treated
him so uncivilly that I was surprised, as I had thought her aesthetic nature incapable of such
an exhibition of temper. Aspasia and Xantippe in one.

I have often noticed that women, merely beautiful, without striking qualities of the soul,
who are looked upon as stars, are something more than stars; they are a whole constellation,
two in fact,--a Great Bear to their surroundings, a Cross to their husbands. Laura was a Cross
to poor Davis, and is now a Bear in regard to Maleschi. She would treat me a little in that
way, too, if it were not that she is not familiar with the ways of Parisian society, and considers
it safer to have me for an ally than an enemy. It is very strange, but she does not create
here the same sensation as in Italy, or on the Mediterranean. She is simply too classical,
too beautiful for Parisians, whose taste is to a certain degree morbid, as appears in their
literature and art; and characteristic ugliness more strongly excites their blunted nerves
than simple beauty. It is a noted fact that the most celebrated stars of the demi-monde are
rather ugly than beautiful. In regard to Laura, there is another reason for her non-success
with the Parisians. Her intelligence, though very uncommon, is upon too straight lines, wanting
in that kind of dash so appreciated here. There are thinkers, and deep thinkers, too, in Paris,
but in society those mostly win a reputation whose minds are nimble enough to cling to any
subject, as a monkey to a branch by his tail or feet, turning head over heel. The more these
jumps are sudden and unexpected, the surer the success. Laura understands this, and at the
same time is conscious that to do this would be as easy for her as to dance on a rope. She
considers me an adept in these kinds of gymnastics, and consequently wants me.

To increase the attraction of her salon, she has made it into a temple of music. She herself
sings like a siren, and thereby attracts many people. I meet there often a pianiste, Clara
Hilst, a young, good-looking German girl, very tall of figure, whom one of the painters here
describes thus: "C'est beau, mais c'est deux fois grandeur naturelle." In spite of her German
origin, she has met with a considerable success. As to myself, I evidently belong to the old
school, for I do not understand the music of the present, which consists in a great deal of
noise and confusion. Listening the last time to Miss Hilst's playing at Laura's, I thought
to myself that if the piano were a man who had seduced her sister, she could not belabor him
more mercilessly. She also plays on the harmonium. Her compositions are thought of a great
deal here, and considered very deep; most likely because those who could not understand them,
hearing them for the tenth time, hope the eleventh time will make them more intelligible. I
must confess that these remarks sound malicious, perhaps bold in one who does not profess to
be a judge. Yet it seems to me that music for the understanding of which one has to be a professor
of the Conservatorium, and for which people intellectually developed, let alone simple folk,
do not possess the key, is not what it ought to be. I am afraid that musicians following the
same track will end by creating a separate caste, like the Egyptian priests, in order to keep
knowledge and art exclusively to themselves.

I say this because I notice that since Wagner's time, music, compared, for instance, to painting,
has taken a quite different direction. The newer school of painting is narrowing spontaneously
the limit of its proportions, tries to divest itself from philosophical and literary ideas;
does not attempt speeches, sermons, historical events that require a commentary, or allegory
that does not explain itself at a glance; in fact confines itself with the full consciousness
of doing so to the reproduction of shape and color. Music since Wagner's time goes in the opposite
direction,--tries to be, not only a harmony of sound, but at the same time the philosophy of
harmony. I sometimes think a great musical genius of the future will say, as Hegel did in his
time:--

"There was only one who understood me, and he understood me wrongly."

Miss Hilst belongs to the category of musical philosophers, which is all the more strange,
as her mind is full of simplicity. This caryatid has the limpid, innocent eyes of a child,
and is unsophisticated and sincere like one. She is surrounded by a great throng of admirers,
who are attracted by her beauty, and more still by the nimbus that makes a woman touched by
the hand of the Muses always a centre of attraction; nevertheless, not a breath has touched
her fair fame. Even the women speak well of her, for she disarms them by her invariable good
humor and sincerity. She is as gay as any street urchin, and I have seen her laughing as schoolgirls
laugh, the tears running down her face, which would be considered bad form in anybody but an
artist, who is a privileged person. Hers, from a moral point of view, is a beautiful character,
though beyond her art, she is not endowed with great intellectual gifts. Laura, who, in the
main, does not like her, hinted to me several times that the caryatid is in love with me. I
do not believe it; she might love me, perhaps, if I tried to make her. One thing is certain,
she likes me very much, and felt sympathy for me the first time we met. I return the sentiment,
and do not try to disturb her peace of mind. When I meet a woman for the first time I look
upon her, from old habit I suppose, as a possible conquest; it is the first instinct. A second
thought is quite different. Generally speaking, women interest me in the way precious stones
interest a jeweller who has retired from business. Seeing a valuable gem, I say to myself it
is worth having, and then I remember that I have sold out, and go on my way.

In spite of all that, I once, half in jest, urged her to go to Warsaw, and promised to escort
her as honorary impresario. I do not say that such a journey would be without charm. I really
intend going. My aunt has given me her town house, and wants me to come over in order to take
the property. Besides, I always go to Warsaw for the races. Who would believe that my aunt,
a grave, serious-minded lady, devoted to the management of the estate, to prayer and benevolent
schemes, had such a worldly weakness as horse-racing. It is her one passion. Maybe the knightly
instincts which women inherit as well as men, find an outlet in this noble sport. Our horses
have been running for Heaven knows how many years,--and are always beaten. My aunt never fails
to attend the races, and is an enthusiast about horses. While her own horses are running, she
stands on the back seat of her carriage, leaning on a stick, her bonnet usually awry, and watches
for the result,--then gets very angry, and for at least a month makes Chwastowski's life a
burden to him. At present I hear she has reared a wonderful horse, and she bids me to come
and witness the triumph of the black and orange colors. I shall go. There are other reasons
too which make me inclined to go. As I have said, I am comparatively speaking calm, do not
wish for anything, or expect anything, am resigned in fact to that kind of spiritual paralysis
until the time comes when bodily paralysis carries me off, as it carried off my father. Nevertheless,
I cannot forget altogether, therefore it is only a partial paralysis. The one being I ever
loved presents herself before my mind in two shapes. The one is called Pani Kromitzka, the
other Aniela. As far as Pani Kromitzka is concerned, I am indifferent and a stranger; but Aniela
still haunts me and brings with her, as gifts, the consciousness of wrong, my foolishness,
spiritual crookedness, pain, bitterness, disappointment, and loss. Verily a munificent spirit!
I might be even now perfectly contented if somebody could take from my brain that particular
part wherein memory dwells. I try to drive away the thoughts of what might have been if things
had turned out differently, but cannot always manage it. My munificent, generous angel will
come now and then, and from her cornucopia shower her gifts upon me. At times the idea comes
into my mind that Pani Kromitzka will lay the ghost of Aniela,--and that is one reason I wish
to go; to look upon her happiness, her married life, and all those changes which must have
made her different from the old Aniela. Perhaps I may meet her at Ploszow, as she will want
to see her mother, after so many months of separation.

I suppose that I do not delude myself, and that "ceci tuera cela." I count mostly upon my nerves,
which are so easily worked upon. I remember that when I had made Aniela's acquaintance and
her charm began to act upon me with such irresistible force, the very mention of Kromitzki
in connection with her made her less desirable. This will be more so now, when she belongs
to him body and soul. I am almost certain the remedy will prove efficacious, and that "ceci
tuera cela." And if not, if it should turn out differently, what have I to lose? I do not wish
to gain anything, but should not be sorry perhaps to know that the guilt was not on my side
only, and that henceforth the burden would have to be divided between us two; this might give
me a kind of satisfaction. I say, it might, because I am not sure that it would. Thoughts of
revenge are very far from me. It is only on theatrical boards that disappointed lovers are
thirsting for revenge; in real life they go away with distaste, that is all. Moreover, to make
Pani Kromitzka believe that she had done wrong in rejecting my repentance I should have to
believe firmly in it myself,--and strange to say, there are moments I am not sure of anything.

5 April.

I know for certain I shall meet Pani Kromitzka. Her husband has sold the estate, betaken himself
to Baku on business speculation, and has sent his wife to join her mother at Ploszow; so my
aunt tells me in her letter. I received the news if not indifferently, at least with perfect
composure, but I notice that the impression gradually gained upon me. At present I cannot think
of anything else, as the fact is of so great importance to the two women. After so short a
space as ten months he sold the estate which over four hundred years had been in Aniela's family,
and to the preservation of which Pani Celina had devoted her own life. Then comes a Pan Kromitzki
and sells it with a light heart because he wants the money for his speculations. Suppose he
does make millions--will that compensate the women for the loss of what they prized above money?
What will they think of him now? My aunt writes that she is sitting by Pani Celina's bedside,
who after receiving the news of the sale grew worse at once. I am quite certain that Aniela,
when putting her signature to the deed which empowered her husband to dispose of the land,
did not know what she was signing. She is even now defending her husband. My aunt quotes from
Aniela's letter: "A great misfortune has happened, but it was not Charles's fault." Defend
him, defend him, O loyal wife; but you cannot prevent my thinking that he has wounded you deeply,
and that at the bottom of your heart you despise him. Neither kisses nor soft words will efface
from your memory the one word "sold." And Pani Celina thought that after the marriage he would
devote his money towards clearing off the debts and disincumbering the property! Dear ladies,
I, a man who does not boast of civic virtues, would not have done it, if for no other reason
than innate delicacy of feeling, affection for you, and fear to wound you. But for speculations,
ready money is wanted. I hope it is not merely prejudice, but these millions I heard so much
about appear to me like a great point of interrogation. Maybe he will get them; perhaps the
capital realized from the sale will help him towards it; but if he had possessed the wealth
he used to boast of, would he have dealt his wife and mother-in-law such a blow, and sold their
ancestral seat? My aunt writes that he left immediately after the sale for Baku, and intends
to go as far as Turkestan. Aniela being too young to live by herself must needs come to Ploszow,
as her mother cannot leave it at present, because she is too ill to travel; and besides my
aunt will not let her go, and she is afraid of crossing her in any way. I know Aniela too well
to suspect her of any calculations. She is the very essence of disinterestedness. But the mother,
who would grasp all the world for her only child, doubtless counts upon the chance of a legacy
for Aniela. And she is not mistaken either. My aunt, who never quite believed in Kromitzki's
millions, gave me to understand several times that she meant to do something for Aniela; she
said it with a certain hesitation, almost humbly, as she considers everything ought to go to
a Ploszowski, and that to leave anything to another would be a wrong to the family. How little
she knows me! If Aniela were in want of a pair of shoes and I had to sell Ploszow and give
all I possess, she should have them. I might be prompted by a less noble motive,--for instance,
to appear different from a Kromitzki,--but from whatever motive, I should give it certainly.
But there is no question of that now. I am thinking continually that she is living at Ploszow,
and will remain there as long as Kromitzki's journeys last, which may be God only knows for
how long. I shall see Pani Kromitzka every day. At the thought of this I feel a certain uneasiness,
with a strong admixture of curiosity as to our future relations towards each other; and I clearly
see what might happen if my disposition and feelings in regard to her were different. I never
lie to myself; I repeat again that I am going there in order to cure myself, that I do not
love Pani Kromitzka, and never will love her; that on the contrary, I am in hope that the sight
of her will drive Aniela out of my heart far more successfully than all the fiords and geysers;
but I would not be myself, the man who has lived much and thought much, if I did not see the
danger which under other circumstances such a position might bring forth.

If I wanted to revenge myself, if the very name Pani Kromitzka did not excite my loathing,
what could stand in my way or hinder me,--in quiet Ploszow, where would be we two only, and
the elder ladies, as unsuspicious and unsophisticated in their stainless virtue as any babies?
In regard to this I know my aunt and Pani Celina. In the higher spheres of society one meets
sometimes women thoroughly corrupted; but there are many, especially among the older generation,
who pass through life like angels, with no thought of evil ever coming near them. Neither my
aunt nor Pani Celina would ever dream of any danger threatening Aniela now she is married.
Aniela herself belongs to that kind. She would not have rejected my prayers had she not given
her word to Kromitzki. But Polish women of this kind would rather break a heart than break
their word. At the very thought of it a dull wrath seizes me. I crush down within me the desire
every one has to prove the truth of his opinion. I do not want to argue at all with Pani Kromitzka,
but if somebody else would do it,--point out to women like her that the laws of nature, laws
of affection, cannot be broken with impunity, that they are stronger than any ethic laws, I
should be glad of it. It is true I have sinned in regard to Aniela, but I wished to make amendment
from the very depth of my heart, and she rejected me,--rejected me perhaps so as to be able
to say to herself: "I am not a Leon Ploszowski; I have given a promise, and do not take it
back." This is not virtue, it is want of heart; it is not heroism, but foolishness; not rectitude
of conscience, but vanity. I cannot forget, I cannot; but Pani Kromitzka will help me. When
I come to see her in her new matronly dignity, satisfied with her heroism, self-possessed,
in love, or apparently so, with her husband, watching me furtively to see whether I have been
punished, and punished sufficiently, full of happiness and her own virtues, the ghost of my
old love will be laid, and I can go back to where the reindeer lives without Aniela's memory
following me like the sea-gulls in the track of ships.

