After this the Regent, in a cheerful manner, called upon the Presidents of the Councils to
bring forward any business they might have on hand, but not one had any.  The Marechal de Villars
said, however, that he had a matter to produce, and he produced it accordingly, but with a
clearness which, under the circumstances, was extraordinary.  I fancy, however, that very few
knew what he was talking about.  We were all too much occupied with more interesting matters,
and each voted without speaking. Bad luck to those who had had business to bring forward this
day; they who conducted it would have known but little what they said: they who listened, still
less.

The Council finished thus, from lack of matter, and a movement was made to adjourn it as usual.
I stepped in front of M. le Prince de Conti to M. le Duc d'Orleans, who understood me, and
who begged the company to keep their seats.  La Vrilliere went out by order for news, but there
was nothing fresh.

CHAPTER XCIII

It was now a little after ten.  We remained a good half-hour in our places, talking a little
with each other, but on the whole rather silent. At the end some grew fidgety and anxious,
rose and went to the windows. M. le Duc d'Orleans restrained them as well as he could; but
at length Desgranges entered to say that the Chief-President had already arrived, in his coach,
and that the Parliament was near.  So soon as he had retired, the Council rose by groups, and
could no longer be kept seated. M. le Duc d'Orleans himself at last rose, and all he could
do was to prohibit everybody from leaving the room under any pretext, and this prohibition
he repeated two or three times.

Scarcely had we risen when M. le Duc came to me, rejoiced at the success that had hitherto
been had, and much relieved by the absence of the bastards.  Soon after I quitted him the Duc
d'Orleans came to me, overpowered with the same sentiment.  I said what I thought of the consternation
of every one; and painted the expression of M. d'Effiat, at which he was not surprised.  He
was more so about Besons.  I asked if he was not afraid the bastards would come to the Bed
of justice; but he was certain they would not.  I was resolved, however, to prepare his mind
against that contingency.

I walked about, slowly and incessantly without fixing myself on any one, in order that nothing
should escape me, principally attending to the doors.  I took advantage of the opportunity
to say a word here and a word there, to pass continually near those who were suspected, to
skim and interrupt all conversations.  D'Antin was often joined by the Duc de Noailles, who
had resumed his habit of the morning, and continually followed me with his eyes.  He had an
air of consternation, was agitated and embarrassed in countenance--he commonly so free and
easy!  D'Antin took me aside to see whether he could not, considering his position, be excused
from attending the Bed of Justice.  He received permission from the Regent on certain conditions.

I went then to break in upon the colloquy of D'Effiat and his friends, and taking them by surprise,
caused D'Effiat to say that he had just heard strange resolutions, that he did not know who
had advised them, that he prayed that M. d'Orleans would find them advantageous. I replied,
agreeing with him.  The Marechal de Villeroy sighed, muttered, and shook his wig, Villars spoke
more at length, and blamed sharply what had been done.  I assented to everything, being there
not to persuade but to watch.

Nevertheless we grew weary of the slowness of the Parliament, and often sent out for news.
Several of the Council tried to leave the room, perhaps to blab, but the Regent would allow
no one but La Vrilliere to go out, and seeing that the desire to leave increased, stood at
the door himself.  I suggested to him that Madame d'Orleans would be in a great state of uneasiness,
and suggested that he should write to her; but he could not be persuaded to do it, though he
promised.

At last the Parliament arrived, and behold us!  like children, all at the windows.  The members
came in red robes, two by two, by the grand door of the court, which they passed in order to
reach the Hall of the Ambassadors, where the Chief-President, who had come in his carriage
with the president Haligre, awaited them.

The Parliament being in its place, the peers having arrived, and the presidents having put
on their furs behind the screens arranged for that purpose in an adjoining room, a messenger
came to inform us that all was ready.  The question had been agitated, whether the King should
dine meanwhile, and I had it carried in the negative, fearing lest coming immediately after
to the Bed of justice, and having eaten before his usual hour, he might be ill, which would
have been a grievous inconvenience.  As soon as it was announced to the Regent that we could
set out, his Royal Highness sent word to the Parliament, to prepare the deputation to receive
the King; and then said aloud to the company, that it was time to go in search of his Majesty.

At these words I felt a storm of joy sweep over me, at the thought of the grand spectacle that
was going to pass in my presence, which warned me to be doubly on my guard.  I tried to furnish
myself with the strongest dose of seriousness, gravity, and modesty.  I followed M. le Duc
d'Orleans, who entered the King's room by the little door, and who found the King in his cabinet.
On the way the Duc d'Albret made me some very marked compliments, with evident desire to discover
something.  I put him off with politeness, complaints of the crowd, of the annoyance of my
dress, and gained thus the King's cabinet.

The King was dressed as usual.  When the Duc d'Orleans had been a few moments with him, he
asked him if he would be pleased to go: and the way was instantly' cleared, a procession formed,
and the King moved towards the Hall of the Swiss Guard.

I now hastened to the chamber, where the Bed of justice was to be held. The passage to it was
tolerably, free.  The officers of the body-guard made place for me and for the Duc de la Force,
and Marechal de Villars, who followed me, one by one.  I stopped a moment in the passage at
the entrance to the room, seized with joy upon seeing this grand spectacle, and at the thought
of the grand movement that was drawing nigh, I needed a pause in order to recover myself sufficiently
to see distinctly what I looked at, and to put on a new coat of seriousness and of modesty.
I fully expected I should be well examined by a company which had been carefully taught not
to like me, and by the curious spectators waiting to see what was to be hatched out of so profound
a secret, in such an important assembly, summoned so hastily.  Moreover, nobody was ignorant
that I knew all, at least from the Council of the Regency I had just left.

I did not deceive myself.  As soon as I appeared, all eyes were fixed upon me.  I slowly advanced
towards the chief greffier, and introducing myself between the two seats, I traversed the length
of the room, in front of the King's people, who saluted me with a smiling air, and I ascended
over three rows of high seats, where all the peers were in their places, and who rose as I
approached the steps.  I respectfully saluted them from the third row.

Seated in my elevated place, and with nothing before me, I was able to glance over the whole
assembly.  I did so at once, piercing everybody with my eyes.  One thing alone restrained me;
it was that I did not dare to fix my eyes upon certain objects.  I feared the fire and brilliant
significance of my looks at that moment so appreciated by everybody: and the more I saw I attracted
attention, the more anxious was I to wean curiosity by my discreetness.  I cast, nevertheless,
a glittering glance upon the Chief-President and his friends, for the examination of whom I
was admirably placed.  I carried my looks over all the Parliament, and saw there an astonishment,
a silence, a consternation, such as I had not expected, and which was of good augury to me.
The Chief-President, insolently crest-fallen, the other presidents disconcerted, and attentive
to all, furnished me the most agreeable spectacle.  The simply curious (among which I rank
those who had no vote) appeared to me not less surprised (but without the bewilderment of the
others), calmly surprised; in a word, everybody showed much expectation and desire to divine
what had passed at the Council.

I had but little leisure for this examination, for the King immediately arrived.  The hubbub
which followed his entrance, and which lasted until his Majesty and all who accompanied him
were in their places, was another singularity.  Everybody sought to penetrate the Regent, the
Keeper of the Seals, and the principal personages.  The departure of the bastards from the
cabinet of the Council had redoubled attention, but everybody did not know of that departure;
now everybody perceived their absence.  The consternation of the Marechals--of their senior--(the
governor of the King) was evident.  It augmented the dejection of the Chief-President, who
not seeing his master the Duc du Maine, cast a terrible glance upon M. de Sully and me, who
exactly occupied the places of the two brothers. In an instant all the eyes of the assembly
were cast, at the same time, upon us; and I remarked that the meditativeness and expectation
increased in every face.  That of the Regent had an air of gentle but resolute majesty completely
new to it, his eyes attentive, his deportment grave, but easy.  M. le Duc, sage, measured,
but encircled by I know not what brilliancy, which adorned all his person and which was evidently
kept down.  M. le Prince de Conti appeared dull, pensive, his mind far away perhaps.  I was
not able during the sitting to see them except now and then, and under pretext of looking at
the King, who was serious, majestic, and at the same time as pretty as can be imagined; grave,
with grace in all his bearing, his air attentive, and not at all wearied, playing his part
very well and without embarrassment.

When all was ready, Argenson, the Keeper of the Seals, remained some minutes at his desk motionless,
looking down, and the fire which sprang from his eyes seemed to burn every breast.  An extreme
silence eloquently announced the fear, the attention, the trouble, and the curiosity of all
the expectants.  The Parliament, which under the deceased King had often summoned this same
Argenson, and as lieutenant of police had often given him its orders, he standing uncovered
at the bar of the house; the Parliament, which since the regency had displayed its ill-will
towards him so far as to excite public remark, and which still detained prisoners and papers
to vex him; this Chief President so superior to him, so haughty, so proud of his Duc du Maine;
this Lamoignon, who had boasted he would have him hanged at his Chamber of justice, where he
had so completely dishonoured himself: this Parliament and all saw him clad in the ornaments
of the chief office of the robe, presiding over them, effacing them, and entering upon his
functions to teach them their duty, to read them a public lesson the first time he found himself
at their head!  These vain presidents were seen turning their looks from a man who imposed
so strongly upon their pride, and who annihilated their arrogance in the place even whence
they drew it, and rendered them stupid by regards they could not sustain.

After the Keeper of the Seals (according to the manner of the preachers) had accustomed himself
to this august audience, he uncovered himself, rose, mounted to the King, knelt before the
steps of the throne, by the side of the middle of the steps, where the grand chamberlain was
lying upon cushions, and took the King's orders, descended, placed himself in his chair and
covered himself.  Let us say it once for all, he performed the same ceremony at the commencement
of each business, and likewise before and after taking the opinion upon each; at the bar of
justice neither he nor the chamberlain ever speaks otherwise to the King; and every time he
went to the King on this occasion the Regent rose and approached him to hear and suggest the
orders.  Having returned back into his place, he opened, after some moments of silence, this
great scene by a discourse.  The report of the Bed of justice, made by the Parliament and printed,
which is in the hands of everybody, renders it unnecessary for me to give the discourse of
the Keeper of the Seals, that of the Chief-President, those of the King's people, and the different
papers that were read and registered.  I will simply content myself with some observations.
This first discourse, the reading of the letters of the Keeper of the Seals, and the speech
of the Advocate-General Blancmesnil which followed, the opinions taken, the order given, sometimes
reiterated to keep the two double doors open, did not surprise anybody; served only as the
preface to all the rest; to sharpen curiosity more and more as the moment approached in which
it was to be satisfied.

This first act finished, the second was announced by the discourse of the Keeper of the Seals,
the force of which penetrated all the Parliament. General consternation spread itself over
their faces.  Scarcely one of the members dared to speak to his neighbour.  I remarked that
the Abbe Pucelle, who, although only counsellor-clerk, was upon the forms in front of me, stood,
so that he might hear better every time the Keeper of the Seals spoke.  Bitter grief, obviously
full of vexation, obscured the visage of the Chief-President.  Shame and confusion were painted
there.

After the vote, and when the Keeper of the Seals had pronounced, I saw the principal members
of the Parliament in commotion.  The Chief- President was about to speak.  He did so by uttering
the remonstrance of the Parliament, full of the most subtle and impudent malice against the
Regent, and of insolence against the King.  The villain trembled, nevertheless, in pronouncing
it.  His voice broken, his eyes constrained, his flurry and confusion, contradicted the venomous
words he uttered; libations he could not abstain from offering to himself and his company.
This was the moment when I relished, with delight utterly impossible to express, the sight
of these haughty lawyers (who had dared to refuse us the salutation), prostrated upon their
knees, and rendering, at our feet, homage to the throne, whilst we sat covered upon elevated
seats, at the side of that same throne.  These situations and these postures, so widely disproportioned,
plead of themselves with all the force of evidence, the cause of those who are really and truly
'laterales regis' against this 'vas electum' of the third estate.  My eyes fixed, glued, upon
these haughty bourgeois, with their uncovered heads humiliated to the level of our feet, traversed
the chief members kneeling or standing, and the ample folds of those fur robes of rabbit-skin
that would imitate ermine, which waved at each long and redoubled genuflexion; genuflexions
which only finished by command of the King.

The remonstrance being finished, the Keeper of the Seals mentioned to the King their wishes,
asking further opinions; took his place again; cast his eyes on the Chief-President, and said:
The King wishes to be obeyed, and obeyed immediately.

This grand speech was a thunder-bolt which overturned councillors and presidents in the most
marked manner.  All of them lowered their heads, and the majority kept them lowered for a long
time.  The rest of the spectators, except the marshals of France, appeared little affected
by this desolation.

But this--an ordinary triumph--was nothing to that which was to follow. After an interval of
some few minutes, the Keeper of the Seals went up again to the King, returned to his place,
and remained there in silence some little time.  Then everybody clearly saw that the Parliamentary
affair being finished, something else must be in the wind.  Some thought that a dispute which
the Dukes had had with the Parliament, concerning one of its usurpations, was now to be settled
in our favour.  Others who had noticed the absence of the bastards, guessed it was something
that affected them; but nobody divined what, much less its extent.

At last the Keeper of the Seals opened his mouth, and in his first sentence announced the fall
of one brother and the preservation of the other.  The effect of this upon every one was inexpressible.
However occupied I might be in containing mine, I lost nothing.  Astonishment prevailed over
every other sentiment.  Many appeared glad, either from hatred to the Duc du Maine, or from
affection for the Comte de Toulouse; several were in consternation.  The Chief-President lost
all countenance; his visage, so self-sufficient and so audacious, was seized with a convulsive
movement; the excess alone of his rage kept him from swooning. It was even worse at the reading
of the declaration.  Each word was legislative and decreed a fresh fall.  The attention was
general; every one was motionless, so as not to lose a word; all eyes were fixed upon the 'greffier'
who was reading.  A third of this reading over, the Chief- President, gnashing the few teeth
left in his head, rested his forehead upon his stick that he held in both hands, and in this
singular and marked position finished listening to the declaration, so overwhelming for him,
so resurrectionary for us.

Yet, as for me, I was dying with joy.  I was so oppressed that I feared I should swoon; my
heart dilated to excess, and no longer found room to beat.  The violence I did myself, in order
to let nothing escape me, was infinite; and, nevertheless, this torment was delicious.  I compared
the years and the time of servitude; the grievous days, when dragged at the tail of the Parliamentary
car as a victim, I had served as a triumph for the bastards; the various steps by which they
had mounted to the summit above our heads; I compared them, I say, to this court of justice
and of rule, to this frightful fall which, at the same time, raised us by the force of the
shock.  I thanked myself that it was through me this had been brought about.  I had triumphed,
I was revenged; I swam in my vengeance; I enjoyed the full accomplishment of desires the most
vehement and the most continuous of all my life.  I was tempted to fling away all thought and
care.  Nevertheless, I did not fail to listen to this vivifying reading (every note of which
sounded upon my heart as the bow upon an instrument), or to examine, at the same time, the
impressions it made upon every one.

At the first word the Keeper of the Seals said of this affair, the eyes of the two bishop-peers
met mine.  Never did I see surprise equal to theirs, or so marked a transport of joy.  I had
not been able to speak to them on account of the distance of our places; and they could not
resist the movement which suddenly seized them.  I swallowed through my eyes a delicious draught
of their joy, and turned away my glance from theirs, lest I should succumb beneath this increase
of delight.  I no longer dared to look at them.

