Though far from well, Wolfe was as keen as ever about anything that could possibly make him
fit for command. He picked out the best officers with a sure eye: generals and colonels, like
Carleton; captains; like Delaune, a man made for the campaigns in Canada, who, as we shall
see later, led the 'Forlorn Hope' up the Heights of Abraham. Wolfe had also noted in a third
member of the great Howe family a born leader of light infantry for Quebec. Wolfe was very
strong on light infantry, and trained them to make sudden dashes with a very short but sharp
surprise attack followed by a quick retreat under cover. One day at Louisbourg an officer said
this reminded him of what Xenophon wrote about the Carduchians who harassed the rear of the
world-famous 'Ten Thousand.' 'I had it from Xenophon' was Wolfe's reply. Like all great commanders,
Wolfe knew what other great commanders had done and thought, no matter to what age or nation
they belonged: Greek, Roman, German, French, British, or any other. Years before this he had
recommended a young officer to study the Prussian Army Regulations and Vauban's book on Sieges.
Nor did he forget to read the lives of men like Scanderbeg and Ziska, who could teach him many
unusual lessons. He kept his eyes open everywhere, all his life long, on men and things and
books. He recommended his friend. Captain Rickson, who was then in Halifax, to read Montesquieu's
not yet famous book The Spirit of Laws, because it would be useful for a government official
in a new country. Writing home to his mother from Louisbourg about this new country, that is,
before Canada had become British, before there was much more than a single million of English-speaking
people in the whole New World, and before most people on either side of the Atlantic understood
what a great oversea empire meant at all, he said: 'This will sometime hence, be a vast empire,
the seat of power and learning. Nature has refused them nothing, and there will grow a people
out of our little spot, England, that will fill this vast space, and divide this great portion
of the globe with the Spaniards, who are possessed of the other half of it.'

On arriving in England Wolfe had reported his presence to the commander-in-chief, Lord Ligonier,
requesting leave of absence in order that he might visit his relatives. This was granted, and
the Wolfe family met together once more and for the last time.

Though he said little about it, Wolfe must have snatched some time for Katherine Lowther, his
second love, to whom he was now engaged. What had happened between him and his first love,
Miss Lawson, will probably never be known. We know that his parents were opposed to his marrying
her. Perhaps, too, she may not have been as much in love as he was. But, for whatever reason,
they parted. Then he fell in love with beautiful Katherine Lowther, a sister to the Earl of
Lonsdale and afterwards Duchess of Bolton.

Meanwhile Pitt was planning for his Empire Year of 1759, the year of Ferdinand at Minden, Wolfe
at Quebec, and Hawke in Quiberon Bay. Before Pitt had taken the war in hand nearly everything
had gone against the British. Though Clive had become the British hero of India in 1757, and
Wolfe of Louisbourg in 1758, there had hitherto been more defeats than victories. Minorca had
been lost in 1756; in America Braddock's army had been destroyed in 1755; and Montcalm had
won victories at Oswego in 1756, at Fort William Henry in 1757, and at Ticonderoga in 1758.
More than this, in 1759 the French were preparing fleets and armies to invade England, Ireland,
and Scotland; and the British people were thinking rather of their own defence at home than
of attacking the French abroad.

Pitt, however, rightly thought that vigorous attacks from the sea were the best means of defence
at home. From London he looked out over the whole world: at France and her allies in the centre,
at French India on his far left, and at French Canada on his far right; with the sea dividing
his enemies and uniting his friends, if only he could hold its highways with the British Navy.

To carry out his plans Pitt sent a small army and a great deal of money to Frederick the Great,
to help him in the middle of Europe against the Russians, Austrians, and French. At the same
time he let Anson station fleets round the coast of France, so that no strong French force
could get at Britain or Greater Britain, or go to help Greater France, without a fight at sea.
Then, having cut off Canada from France and taken her outpost at Louisbourg, he aimed a death-blow
at her very heart by sending Saunders, with a quarter of the whole British Navy, against Quebec,
the stronghold of New France, where the land attack was to be made by a little army of 9,000
men under Wolfe. Even this was not the whole of Pitt's plan for the conquest of Canada. A smaller
army was to be sent against the French on the Great Lakes, and a larger one, under Amherst,
along the line of Lake Champlain, towards Montreal.

Pitt did a very bold thing when he took a young colonel and asked the king to make him a general
and allow him to choose his own brigadiers and staff officers. It was a bold thing, because,
whenever there is a position of honour to be given, the older men do not like being passed
over and all the politicians who think of themselves first and their country afterwards wish
to put in their own favourites. Wolfe, of course, had enemies. Dullards often think that men
of genius are crazy, and some one had told the king that Wolfe was mad. 'Mad, is he?' said
the king, remembering all the recent British defeats on land 'then I hope he'll bite some of
my other generals!' Wolfe was not able to give any of his seniors his own and Lord Howe's kind
of divine 'madness' during that war. But he did give a touch of it to many of his juniors;
with the result that his Quebec army was better officered than any other British land force
of the time.

The three brigadiers next in command to Wolfe--Monckton, Townshend, and Murray--were not chosen
simply because they were all sons of peers, but because, like Howe and Boscawen, they were
first-rate officers as well. Barre and Carleton were the two chief men on the staff. Each became
celebrated in later days, Barre in parliament, and Carleton as both the saviour of Canada from
the American attack in 1775 and the first British governor-general. Williamson, the best gunnery
expert in the whole Army, commanded the artillery. The only troublesome officer was Townshend,
who thought himself, and whose family and political friends thought him, at least as good a
general as Wolfe, if not a better one. But even Townshend did his duty well. The army at Halifax
was supposed to be twelve thousand, but its real strength was only nine thousand. The difference
was mostly due to the ravages of scurvy and camp fever, both of which, in their turn, were
due to the bad food supplied by rascally contractors. The action of the officers alone saved
the situation from becoming desperate. Indeed, if it had not been for what the officers did
for their men in the way of buying better food, at great cost, out of their own not well-filled
pockets, there might have been no army at all to greet Wolfe on his arrival in America.

The fleet was the greatest that had ever sailed across the seas. It included one-quarter of
the whole Royal Navy. There were 49 men-of-war manned by 14,000 sailors and marines. There
were also more than 200 vessels-- transports, store ships, provision ships, etc.--manned by
about 7,000 merchant seamen. Thus there were at least twice as many sailors as soldiers at
the taking of Quebec. Saunders was a most capable admiral. He had been flag-lieutenant during
Anson's famous voyage round the world; then Hawke's best fighting captain during the war in
which Wolfe was learning his work at Dettingen and Laffeldt; and then Hawke's second-in-command
of the 'cargo of courage' sent out after Byng's disgrace at Minorca. After Quebec he crowned
his fine career by being one of the best first lords of the Admiralty that ever ruled the Navy.
Durell, his next in command, was slower than Amherst; and Amherst never made a short cut in
his life, even to certain success. Holmes, the third admiral, was thoroughly efficient. Hood,
a still better admiral than any of those at Quebec, afterwards served under Holmes, and Nelson
under Hood; which links Trafalgar with Quebec. But a still closer link with 'mighty Nelson'
was Jervis, who took charge of Wolfe's personal belongings at Quebec the night before the battle
and many years later became Nelson's commander-in-chief. Another Quebec captain who afterwards
became a great admiral was Hughes, famous for his fights in India. But the man whose subsequent
fame in the world at large eclipsed that of any other in this fleet was Captain Cook, who made
the first good charts of Canadian waters some years before he became a great explorer in the
far Pacific.

There was a busy scene at Portsmouth on February 17, when Saunders and Wolfe sailed in the
flagship H.M.S. Neptune, of 90 guns and a crew of 750 men. She was one of the well-known old
'three-deckers,' those 'wooden walls of England' that kept the Empire safe while it was growing
up. The guard of red-coated marines presented arms, and the hundreds of bluejackets were all
in their places as the two commanders stepped on board. The naval officers on the quarter-deck
were very spick and span in their black three-cornered hats, white wigs, long, bright blue,
gold-laced coats, white waistcoats and breeches and stockings, and gold-buckled shoes. The
idea of having naval uniforms of blue and white and gold--the same colours that are worn to-day--came
from the king's seeing the pretty Duchess of Bedford in a blue-and-white riding-habit, which
so charmed him that he swore he would make the officers wear the same colours for the uniforms
just then being newly tried. This was when the Duke of Bedford was first lord of the Admiralty,
some years before Pitt's great expedition against Quebec.

The sailors were also in blue and white; but they were not so spick and span as the officers.
They were a very rough-and-ready-looking lot. They wore small, soft, three-cornered black hats,
bright blue jackets, open enough to show their coarse white shirts, and coarse white duck trousers.
They had shoes without stockings on shore, and only bare feet on board. They carried cutlasses
and pistols, and wore their hair in pigtails. They would be a surprising sight to modern eyes.
But not so much so as the women! Ships and regiments in those days always had a certain number
of women for washing and mending the clothes. There was one woman to about every twenty men.
They drew pay and were under regular orders just like the soldiers and sailors. Sometimes they
gave a willing hand in action, helping the 'powder-monkeys' --boys who had to pass the powder
from the barrels to the gunners--or even taking part in a siege, as at Louisbourg.

The voyage to Halifax was long, rough, and cold, and Wolfe was sea-sick as ever. Strangely
enough, these ships coming out to the conquest of Canada under St George's cross made land
on St George's Day near the place where Cabot had raised St George's cross over Canadian soil
before Columbus had set foot on the mainland of America. But though April 23 might be a day
of good omen, it was a very bleak one that year off Cape Breton, where ice was packed for miles
and miles along the coast. On the 30th the fleet entered Halifax. Slow old Durell was hurried
off on May 5 with eight men-of-war and seven hundred soldiers under Carleton to try to stop
any French ships from getting up to Quebec. Carleton was to go ashore at Isle-aux-Coudres,
an island commanding the channel sixty miles below Quebec, and mark out a passage for the fleet
through the 'Traverse' at the lower end of the island of Orleans, thirty miles higher up.

On the 13th Saunders sailed for Louisbourg, where the whole expedition was to meet and get
ready. Here Wolfe spent the rest of Map, working every day and all day. His army, with the
exception of nine hundred American rangers, consisted of seasoned British regulars, with all
the weaklings left behind; and it did his heart good to see them on parade. There was the 15th,
whose officers still wear a line of black braid on their uniforms in mourning for his death.
The 15th and five other regiments --the 28th, 43rd, 47th, 48th, and 58th--were English. But
the 35th had been forty years in Ireland, and was Irish to a man. The whole seven regiments
were dressed very much alike: three-cornered, stiff black hats with black cockades, white wigs,
long-tailed red coats turned back with blue or white in front, where they were fastened only
at the neck, white breeches, and long white gaiters coming over the knee. A very different
corps was the 78th, or 'Fraser's,' Highlanders, one of the regiments Wolfe first recommended
and Pitt first raised. Only fourteen years before the Quebec campaign these same Highlanders
had joined Prince Charlie, the Young Pretender, in the famous ''45.' They were mostly Roman
Catholics, which accounts for the way they intermarried with the French Canadians after the
conquest. They had been fighting for the Stuarts against King George, and Wolfe, as we have
seen, had himself fought against them at Culloden. Yet here they were now, under Wolfe, serving
King George. They knew that the Stuart cause was lost for ever; and all of them, chiefs and
followers alike, loved the noble profession of arms. The Highlanders then wore 'bonnets' like
a high tam-o'-shanter, with one white curly feather on the left side. Their red coats were
faced with yellow, and they wore the Fraser plaid hung from the shoulders and caught up, loopwise,
on both hips. Their kilts were very short and not pleated. Badger sporrans, showing the head
in the middle, red-and-white-diced hose, and buckled brogues completed their wild but martial
dress, which was well set off by the dirks and claymores that swung to the stride of the mountaineer.

Each regiment had one company of grenadiers, picked out for their size, strength, and steadiness,
and one company of light infantry, picked out for their quickness and good marksmanship. Sometimes
all the grenadier companies would be put together in a separate battalion. The same thing was
often done with the light infantry companies, which were then led by Colonel Howe. Wolfe had
also made up a small three-company battalion of picked grenadiers from the five regiments that
were being left behind at Louisbourg to guard the Maritime Provinces. This little battalion
became famous at Quebec as the 'Louisbourg Grenadiers.' The grenadiers all wore red and white,
like the rest, except that their coats were buttoned up the whole way, and instead of the three-cornered
hats they wore high ones like a bishop's mitre. The artillery wore blue-grey coats turned back
with red, yellow braid, and half-moon-shaped black hats, with the points down towards their
shoulders.

The only remaining regiment is of much greater interest in connection with a Canadian campaign.
It was the 60th Foot, then called the Royal Americans, afterwards the Sixtieth Rifles or 'Old
Sixtieth,' and now the King's Royal Rifle Corps. It was the first regiment of regulars ever
raised in Greater Britain, and the first to introduce the rifle-green uniform now known all
over the Empire, especially in Canada, where all rifle regiments still follow 'the 60th's'
lead so far as that is possible. Many of its officers and men who returned from the conquest
of Canada to their homes in the British colonies were destined to move on to Canada with their
families as United Empire Loyalists. This was their first war; and they did so well in it that
Wolfe gave them the rifleman's motto they still bear in token of their smartness and dash--Celer
et Audax. Unfortunately they did not then wear the famous 'rifle green' but the ordinary red.
Unfortunately, too, the rifleman's green has no connection with the 'green jackets of American
backwoodsmen in the middle of the eighteenth century.' The backwoodsmen were not dressed in
green as a rule, and they never formed any considerable part of the regiment at any time. The
first green uniform came in with the new 5th battalion in 1797; and the old 2nd and 3rd battalions,
which fought under Wolfe, did not adopt it till 1815. It was not even of British origin, but
an imitation of a German hussar uniform which was itself an imitation of one worn by the Hungarians,
who have the senior hussars of the world. But though Wolfe's Royal Americans did not wear the
rifle green, and though their coats and waistcoats were of common red, their uniforms differed
from those of all other regiments at Quebec in several particulars. The most remarkable difference
was the absence of lace, an absence specially authorized only for this corps, and then only
in view of special service and many bush fights in America. The double-breasted coats were
made to button across, except at the top, where the lapels turned back, like the cuffs and
coat-tails. All these 'turnbacks' and the breeches were blue. The very long gaiters, the waist
and cross belts, the neckerchief and hat piping were white. Wearing this distinctively plain
uniform, and led by their buglers and drummers in scarlet and gold, like state trumpeters,
the Royal Americans could not, even at a distance, be mistaken for any other regiment.

On June 6 Saunders and Wolfe sailed for Quebec with a hundred and forty-one ships. Wolfe's
work in getting his army safely off being over, he sat down alone in his cabin to make his
will. His first thought was for Katherine Lowther, his fiancee, who was to have her own miniature
portrait, which he carried with him, set in jewels and given back to her. Warde, Howe, and
Carleton were each remembered. He left all the residue of his estate to 'my good mother,' his
father having just died. More than a third of the whole will was taken up with providing for
his servants. No wonder he was called 'the soldier's friend.'

There was a thrilling scene at Louisbourg as regiment after regiment marched down to the shore,
with drums beating, bugles sounding, and colours flying. Each night, after drinking the king's
health, they had drunk another toast--'British colours on every French fort, port, and garrison
in North America.' Now here they were, the pick of the Army and Navy, off with Wolfe to raise
those colours over Quebec, the most important military point on the whole continent. On they
sailed, all together, till they reached the Saguenay, a hundred and twenty miles below Quebec.
Here, on the afternoon of June 20, the sun shone down on a sight such as the New World had
never seen before, and has never seen again. The river narrows opposite the Saguenay and is
full of shoals and islands; so this was the last day the whole one hundred and forty-one vessels
sailed together, in their three divisions, under those three ensigns--'The Red, White, and
Blue'--which have made the British Navy loved, feared, and famous round the seven seas.