The Imperialists, under Leopold and Piccolomini, immediately hastened by Dresden to its relief,
and Torstensohn, to avoid being inclosed between this army and the town, boldly advanced to
meet them in order of battle. By a strange coincidence, the two armies met upon the very spot
which, eleven years before, Gustavus Adolphus had rendered remarkable by a decisive victory;
and the heroism of their predecessors, now kindled in the Swedes a noble emulation on this
consecrated ground.  The Swedish generals, Stahlhantsch and Wellenberg, led their divisions
with such impetuosity upon the left wing of the Imperialists, before it was completely formed,
that the whole cavalry that covered it were dispersed and rendered unserviceable.  But the
left of the Swedes was threatened with a similar fate, when the victorious right advanced to
its assistance, took the enemy in flank and rear, and divided the Austrian line.  The infantry
on both sides stood firm as a wall, and when their ammunition was exhausted, maintained the
combat with the butt-ends of their muskets, till at last the Imperialists, completely surrounded,
after a contest of three hours, were compelled to abandon the field. The generals on both sides
had more than once to rally their flying troops; and the Archduke Leopold, with his regiment,
was the first in the attack and last in flight.  But this bloody victory cost the Swedes more
than 3000 men, and two of their best generals, Schlangen and Lilienhoeck.  More than 5000 of
the Imperialists were left upon the field, and nearly as many taken prisoners.  Their whole
artillery, consisting of 46 field-pieces, the silver plate and portfolio of the archduke, with
the whole baggage of the army, fell into the hands of the victors.  Torstensohn, too greatly
disabled by his victory to pursue the enemy, moved upon Leipzig.  The defeated army retired
into Bohemia, where its shattered regiments reassembled.  The Archduke Leopold could not recover
from the vexation caused by this defeat; and the regiment of cavalry which, by its premature
flight, had occasioned the disaster, experienced the effects of his indignation.  At Raconitz
in Bohemia, in presence of the whole army, he publicly declared it infamous, deprived it of
its horses, arms, and ensigns, ordered its standards to be torn, condemned to death several
of the officers, and decimated the privates.

The surrender of Leipzig, three weeks after the battle, was its brilliant result.  The city
was obliged to clothe the Swedish troops anew, and to purchase an exemption from plunder, by
a contribution of 300,000 rix-dollars, to which all the foreign merchants, who had warehouses
in the city, were to furnish their quota.  In the middle of winter, Torstensohn advanced against
Freyberg, and for several weeks defied the inclemency of the season, hoping by his perseverance
to weary out the obstinacy of the besieged.  But he found that he was merely sacrificing the
lives of his soldiers; and at last, the approach of the imperial general, Piccolomini, compelled
him, with his weakened army, to retire.  He considered it, however, as equivalent to a victory,
to have disturbed the repose of the enemy in their winter quarters, who, by the severity of
the weather, sustained a loss of 3000 horses.  He now made a movement towards the Oder, as
if with the view of reinforcing himself with the garrisons of Pomerania and Silesia; but, with
the rapidity of lightning, he again appeared upon the Bohemian frontier, penetrated through
that kingdom, and relieved Olmutz in Moravia, which was hard pressed by the Imperialists. 
His camp at Dobitschau, two miles from Olmutz, commanded the whole of Moravia, on which he
levied heavy contributions, and carried his ravages almost to the gates of Vienna. In vain
did the Emperor attempt to arm the Hungarian nobility in defence of this province; they appealed
to their privileges, and refused to serve beyond the limits of their own country.  Thus, the
time that should have been spent in active resistance, was lost in fruitless negociation, and
the entire province was abandoned to the ravages of the Swedes.

While Torstensohn, by his marches and his victories, astonished friend and foe, the armies
of the allies had not been inactive in other parts of the empire.  The troops of Hesse, under
Count Eberstein, and those of Weimar, under Mareschal de Guebriant, had fallen into the Electorate
of Cologne, in order to take up their winter quarters there.  To get rid of these troublesome
guests, the Elector called to his assistance the imperial general Hatzfeldt, and assembled
his own troops under General Lamboy.  The latter was attacked by the allies in January, 1642,
and in a decisive action near Kempen, defeated, with the loss of about 2000 men killed, and
about twice as many prisoners.  This important victory opened to them the whole Electorate
and neighbouring territories, so that the allies were not only enabled to maintain their winter
quarters there, but drew from the country large supplies of men and horses.

Guebriant left the Hessians to defend their conquests on the Lower Rhine against Hatzfeldt,
and advanced towards Thuringia, as if to second the operations of Torstensohn in Saxony.  But
instead of joining the Swedes, he soon hurried back to the Rhine and the Maine, from which
he seemed to think he had removed farther than was expedient.  But being anticipated in the
Margraviate of Baden, by the Bavarians under Mercy and John de Werth, he was obliged to wander
about for several weeks, exposed, without shelter, to the inclemency of the winter, and generally
encamping upon the snow, till he found a miserable refuge in Breisgau. He at last took the
field; and, in the next summer, by keeping the Bavarian army employed in Suabia, prevented
it from relieving Thionville, which was besieged by Conde.  But the superiority of the enemy
soon drove him back to Alsace, where he awaited a reinforcement.

The death of Cardinal Richelieu took place in November, 1642, and the subsequent change in
the throne and in the ministry, occasioned by the death of Louis XIII., had for some time withdrawn
the attention of France from the German war, and was the cause of the inaction of its troops
in the field.  But Mazarin, the inheritor, not only of Richelieu's power, but also of his principles
and his projects, followed out with renewed zeal the plans of his predecessor, though the French
subject was destined to pay dearly enough for the political greatness of his country.  The
main strength of its armies, which Richelieu had employed against the Spaniards, was by Mazarin
directed against the Emperor; and the anxiety with which he carried on the war in Germany,
proved the sincerity of his opinion, that the German army was the right arm of his king, and
a wall of safety around France.  Immediately upon the surrender of Thionville, he sent a considerable
reinforcement to Field-Marshal Guebriant in Alsace; and to encourage the troops to bear the
fatigues of the German war, the celebrated victor of Rocroi, the Duke of Enghien, afterwards
Prince of Conde, was placed at their head. Guebriant now felt himself strong enough to appear
again in Germany with repute.  He hastened across the Rhine with the view of procuring better
winter quarters in Suabia, and actually made himself master of Rothweil, where a Bavarian magazine
fell into his hands.  But the place was too dearly purchased for its worth, and was again lost
even more speedily than it had been taken.  Guebriant received a wound in the arm, which the
surgeon's unskilfulness rendered mortal, and the extent of his loss was felt on the very day
of his death.

The French army, sensibly weakened by an expedition undertaken at so severe a season of the
year, had, after the taking of Rothweil, withdrawn into the neighbourhood of Duttlingen, where
it lay in complete security, without expectation of a hostile attack.  In the mean time, the
enemy collected a considerable force, with a view to prevent the French from establishing themselves
beyond the Rhine and so near to Bavaria, and to protect that quarter from their ravages.  The
Imperialists, under Hatzfeldt, had formed a junction with the Bavarians under Mercy; and the
Duke of Lorraine, who, during the whole course of the war, was generally found everywhere except
in his own duchy, joined their united forces.  It was resolved to force the quarters of the
French in Duttlingen, and the neighbouring villages, by surprise; a favourite mode of proceeding
in this war, and which, being commonly accompanied by confusion, occasioned more bloodshed
than a regular battle.  On the present occasion, there was the more to justify it, as the French
soldiers, unaccustomed to such enterprises, conceived themselves protected by the severity
of the winter against any surprise. John de Werth, a master in this species of warfare, which
he had often put in practice against Gustavus Horn, conducted the enterprise, and succeeded,
contrary to all expectation.

The attack was made on a side where it was least looked for, on account of the woods and narrow
passes, and a heavy snow storm which fell upon the same day, (the 24th November, 1643,) concealed
the approach of the vanguard till it halted before Duttlingen.  The whole of the artillery
without the place, as well as the neighbouring Castle of Honberg, were taken without resistance,
Duttlingen itself was gradually surrounded by the enemy, and all connexion with the other quarters
in the adjacent villages silently and suddenly cut off.  The French were vanquished without
firing a cannon.  The cavalry owed their escape to the swiftness of their horses, and the few
minutes in advance, which they had gained upon their pursuers.  The infantry were cut to pieces,
or voluntarily laid down their arms.  About 2,000 men were killed, and 7,000, with 25 staff-officers
and 90 captains, taken prisoners.  This was, perhaps, the only battle, in the whole course
of the war, which produced nearly the same effect upon the party which gained, and that which
lost;--both these parties were Germans; the French disgraced themselves.  The memory of this
unfortunate day, which was renewed 100 years after at Rosbach, was indeed erased by the subsequent
heroism of a Turenne and Conde; but the Germans may be pardoned, if they indemnified themselves
for the miseries which the policy of France had heaped upon them, by these severe reflections
upon her intrepidity.

Meantime, this defeat of the French was calculated to prove highly disastrous to Sweden, as
the whole power of the Emperor might now act against them, while the number of their enemies
was increased by a formidable accession.  Torstensohn had, in September, 1643, suddenly left
Moravia, and moved into Silesia.  The cause of this step was a secret, and the frequent changes
which took place in the direction of his march, contributed to increase this perplexity.  From
Silesia, after numberless circuits, he advanced towards the Elbe, while the Imperialists followed
him into Lusatia.  Throwing a bridge across the Elbe at Torgau, he gave out that he intended
to penetrate through Meissen into the Upper Palatinate in Bavaria; at Barby he also made a
movement, as if to pass that river, but continued to move down the Elbe as far as Havelburg,
where he astonished his troops by informing them that he was leading them against the Danes
in Holstein.

