"Say thou to Caesar that I maimed myself to inspire him with confidence in the sincerity of
my offers of service. My design was to conduct the Roman fleet to certain perdition, sacrificing
my companion and myself. Accident changed my plan. Just as I was piloting you into the channel
of destruction, whence not a galley would have come back, we met the Irishman who informed
me that the Gallic ships, since yesterday assembled in great numbers and trimmed for fight,
are anchored at the foot of the bay, two leagues off. Learning that, I changed my plan. I no
longer wished to cast away the galleys. They will be annihilated just the same, but not by
a snare or by treachery; it will come about in valorous combat, ship to ship, Gaul to Roman.
Now, for the sake of the fight to-morrow, listen well to this: I have purposely led your galleys
into the shallows, where in a few minutes they will be left high and dry on the sands. They
will stay there grounded, for the tide is falling. To attempt to disembark is to commit suicide;
you are surrounded on all sides by moving quicksands like the one in which your soldier and
his axe have just been swallowed up. Remain on board of your ships. To-morrow they will be
floated again by the rising tide. And to-morrow, battle--battle to the finish. The Gaul will
have once more showed that NEVER DID BRETON COMMIT TREASON, and that if he glories in the death
of his enemy, it is because he has killed his enemy fairly."

Then Albinik and Meroë, leaving the interpreter terrified by their words, turned in haste to
the town of Vannes to give the alarm, and to warn the crews of the Gallic fleet to prepare
for combat on the morrow.

On the way, Albinik's wife said to him:

"The heart of my beloved husband is more noble than mine. I wished to see the Roman fleet destroyed
by the sea-rocks. My husband wishes to destroy it by the valor of the Gauls. May I forever
be proud that I am wife to such a man!"

CHAPTER VI.

THE EVE OF BATTLE.

It was the eve of the battle of Vannes; the battle of Vannes which, waged on land and sea,
was to decide the fate of Brittany, and, consequently, of all Gaul, whether for liberty or
enslavement. On this memorable evening, in the presence of all the members of our family united
in the Gallic camp, except my brother Albinik, who had joined the Gallic fleet in the bay of
Morbihan, my father Joel, the brenn of the tribe of Karnak, addressed me, his eldest born,
Guilhern the laborer, who now writes this account. He said to me:

"To-morrow, my son, is the day of battle. We shall fight hard. I am old--you are young. The
angel of death will doubtless carry me hence first; perhaps to-morrow I shall meet in the other
life my sainted daughter Hena. Here, now, is what I ask of you, in the face of the misfortunes
which menace our country, for to-morrow the fortunes of war may go with the Romans. My desire
is that as long as our stock shall last, the love of old Gaul and sacred memories of our fathers
shall be ever kept fresh in our family. If our children should remain free men, the love of
country, the reverence for the memory of their ancestors, will all the more endear their liberty
to them. If they must live and die slaves, these holy memories will remind them, from generation
to generation, that there was a time when, faithful to their gods, valiant in war, independent
and happy, masters of the soil which they had won from nature by severe toil, careless of death,
whose secret they held, the Gallic race lived, feared by the whole world, yet withal hospitable
to peoples who extended to them a friendly hand. These memories, kept alive from age to age,
will make slavery more horrible to our children, and some day give them the strength to overthrow
it. In order that these memories may be thus transmitted from century to century, you must
promise by Hesus, my son, to be faithful to our old Gallic custom. You must tenderly guard
this collection of relics which I am going to entrust you with; you must add to it; you must
make your son Sylvest swear to increase it in his turn, so that the children of your grandchildren
may imitate their fore-fathers, and may themselves be imitated by their posterity. Here is
the collection. The first roll contains the story of all that has chanced to our family up
to the anniversary of my dear Hena's birthday, that day which also saw her die. This other
roll I received this evening about sunset from my son Albinik the mariner. It contains the
story of his journey across the burnt territory, to the camp of Caesar. This account throws
honor on the courage of the Gaul, it throws honor on your brother and his wife, faithful as
they were, almost excessively so, to that maxim of our fathers: 'Never did Breton commit treason.'
These writings I confide to you. You will return them to me after to-morrow's conflict if I
survive. If not, do you preserve them, or in lack of you, your brothers. Do you inscribe the
principal events of your life and your family's; hand the account over to your son, that he
may do as you, and thus on, forever--generation after generation. Do you swear to me, by Hesus,
to respect my wishes?"

I, Guilhern the laborer, answered: "I swear to my father Joel, the brenn of the tribe of Karnak,
that I will faithfully carry out his desires."

The orders then given to me by my father, I have carried out to-day, long after the battle
of Vannes, and after innumerable misfortunes. I make the recital or these misfortunes for you,
my son Sylvest. It is not with blood that I should write this narrative. No blood would run
dry. I write with tears of rage, hatred and anguish,--their source never runs dry!

After my poor and well-beloved brother Albinik piloted the Roman fleet into the bay of Morbihan,
the following was the course of events on the day of the battle of Vannes. It all took place
under my own eyes--I saw it all. Were I to have lived all the days I am to live in the next
world and into all infinity, yet will the remembrance of that frightful day, and of the days;
that followed it, be ever vivid before me, as vivid as it is now, as it was, and as it ever
will be.

Joel my father, Margarid my mother, Henory my wife, my two children Sylvest and Syomara, as
well as my brother Mikael the armorer, his wife Martha, and their children, to mention only
our nearest relatives, had, like all the rest of our tribe, gathered in the Gallic camp. Our
war chariots, covered with cloth, had served us for tents until the day of the battle at Vannes.
During the night, the council, called together by the Chief of the Hundred Valleys, and Tallyessin,
the oldest of the druids, had met. Several mountaineers of Ares, mounted on their tireless
little horses, were sent out in the evening to scout the area of the conflagration. At dawn
they hastened back to report that at six leagues' distance from Vannes they saw the fires of
the Roman army, encamped that night in the midst of the ruins of the town of Morh'ek. The Chief
of the Hundred Valleys concluded that Caesar, to escape from the circle of devastation and
famine that was drawing in closer and closer upon his army, had left the wasted country behind
him by forced marches, and intended to offer battle to the Gauls. The council resolved to advance
to meet Caesar, and to await him on the heights which overlooked the river Elrik. At break
of day, after the druids had invoked the blessings of the gods, our tribe took up its march
for its post in the battle.

Joel, mounted on his high-mettled stallion Tom-Bras, commanded the Mahrek-Ha-Droad,[5] of which
myself and my brother Mikael were members, I as a horseman, Mikael as a foot-soldier. According
to the custom of the army, it was our duty to fight side by side, I on horse-back, he afoot,
and mutually support each other. The war chariots, armed with scythes at the hubs, were placed
in the center of the army, with the reserve. In one of them were my mother and wife, the wife
of Mikael, and our children. Some young lads, lightly armed, surrounded the chariots and were
with difficulty holding back the great war-dogs, which, after the example of Deber-Trud, the
man-eater, were howling and tugging at their leashes, already scenting battle and blood. Among
the young men of the tribe who were in the array, were two who had taken the bond of friendship,
like Julyan and Armel. Moreover, to make it more certain that they would share the same fate,
a stout iron chain was riveted to their collars of brass, and fastened them together. The chain
as the symbol of their pledge of solidarity held them inseparable, scathless, wounded, or dead.

On the way to our post in the battle, we beheld the Chief of the Hundred Valleys passing at
the head of the Trimarkisia.[6] He rode a superb black horse, in scarlet housings; his armor
was of steel; his helmet of plated copper, which shone like the sun, was capped by the emblem
of Gaul, a gilded cock with half spread wings. At either side of the Chief rode a bard and
a druid, clad in long white robes striped with purple. They carried no arms, but when the troops
closed in to battle, then, disdainful of danger, they stood in the front ranks of the combatants,
encouraging these with their words and their songs of war. Thus chanted the bard at the moment
when the Chief of the Hundred Valleys passed by Joel's column:

    "Caesar has come against us.
    In a loud voice he asks:
    'Do you want to be slaves?
    Are ye ready?'

    "No, we do not want to be slaves.
    No, we are not ready.
    Gauls!
    Children of the same race,
    Let us raise our standards on the mountains and pour down upon the plains.
    March on!
    March on against Caesar,
    Joining in the same slaughter him and his army!
    To the Romans!
    To the Romans!"

As the bard sang this song, every heart beat with the ardor of battle.[7]

As the Chief of the Hundred Valleys passed the troop at the head of which was my father Joel,
he reined in his horse and cried:

"Friend Joel, when I was your guest, you asked my name. I answered that I was called Soldier
so long as our old Gaul should be under the oppressor's scourge. The hour has come when we
must show ourselves faithful to the motto of our fathers: 'In all war, there is but one of
two outcomes for the man of courage: to conquer or to die.'[8] O, that my love for our common
country be not barren! O, that Hesus keep our arms! Perhaps then the Chief of the Hundred Valleys
will have washed off the stain which covers a name he no longer dares to bear.[9] Courage,
friend Joel, the sons of your tribe are brave of the brave. What blows will they not deal on
this day which makes for the welfare of Gaul!"

"My tribe will strike its best, and with all its might," answered my father. "We have not forgotten
that song of the bards who accompanied you, when the first war-cry burst from them in the forest
of Karnak: 'Strike the Roman hard--strike for the head--still harder--strike!--The Romans,
strike!'"

With one voice the whole tribe of Joel took up the cry:

"Strike!--The Romans, strike!"

CHAPTER VII.

THE BATTLE OF VANNES.

The Chief of the Hundred Valleys took his departure, in order to address a few words of exhortation
to each tribe. Before proceeding to our post of battle, far from the war chariots which held
our wives, daughters and children, my father, brother and myself wished to make sure by a last
look that nothing was lacking for the defense of that car which held our dear ones. My mother,
Margarid, as calm as when she held the distaff in the corner of her own fireplace, was leaning
against the oak panel which formed the body of the chariot. She had set Henory and Martha to
work, giving more play to the straps which, fastened to pegs driven in the edge of the chariot,
secured the handles of the scythes, which were used for defense in the same manner as oars
fastened to the gunwhale of a boat.

Several young girls and women of our kindred were occupied with other cares. Some were preparing
behind the chariots, with thick skins stretched on cords, a retreat where the children would
be under cover from the arrows and stones thrown by the slingers and archers of the enemy.
Already the children were laughing and frolicking with joyous cries around the half finished
den. As an additional protection, my mother Margarid, watchful in everything, had some sacks
filled with grain placed in front of the hut. Other young girls were placing, along the interior
walls of the car, knives, swords and axes, to be used in case of need, and weighing no more
on their strong white arms than did the distaff. Two of their companions, kneeling near my
mother, were opening chests of linen, and preparing oil, balm, salt and witch-hazel, to dress
the wounds, following the example of the druidesses, near whom the car was stationed.

At our approach the children ran gaily from the depths of their retreat into the fore-part
of the wagon, whence they stretched out their little hands to us. Mikael, being on foot, took
in his arms his son and his daughter, while Henory, to spare me the trouble of dismounting
from my horse, reached out, one at a time, my little Syomara and Sylvest into my arms. I seated
them both before me on the saddle, and at the moment of starting for the fight, I had the pleasure
of kissing their yellow heads. My father, Joel, then said to my mother:

"Margarid, if fortune turns against us, and the car is attacked by the Romans, do not free
the dogs until the moment of attack. The brave animals will be only the more furious for their
long wait, and will not then stray away from where you are."

"Your advice will be followed, Joel," answered my mother. "Look and see if these straps give
the scythes enough play."

"Yes, they are free enough," answered my father, looking at some of the straps. Then, examining
the array of scythes which defended the other side of the chariot, he broke out:

"Wife, wife! What were those girls thinking of! Look here! Oh, the rattle heads! On this side
the scythe-blades are turned towards the shaft of the chariot, and over there they are pointed
backwards!"

"It was I who had the weapons placed so," said she.

"And why are not all the blades turned the same way, Margarid?"

"Because a car is almost always attacked before and behind at once. In that case the two rows
of scythes, placed in opposite directions, are the best defense. My mother taught me that,
and I am showing the method to these dear girls."

"Your mother saw further than I, Margarid. A good harvest time is thus made certain. Let the
Romans come and assault the car! Heads and limbs will fall, mown down like ripe ears at the
reaping! Let Hesus make it a good one, this human harvest!"

Then, listening intently, my father said to Mikael and myself:

"Sons, I hear the cymbals of the bards and the clarions of the Trimarkisia. Let us rejoin our
friends. Well, Margarid, well, my daughters,--till we meet again, here--or above!"

"Here or above, our fathers and husbands will find us pure and unstained," answered Henory,
more proud, more beautiful than ever.

"Victorious or dead you will see us again," added Madalen, a young maiden of sixteen. "But
enslaved or dishonored, no. By the glorious blood of our Hena---- no---- never!"

"No!" said Martha, the wife of Mikael, pressing to her bosom her two children, whom their father
had just replaced in the chariot.

"These dear girls are of our race--rest easy, Joel," continued my mother, even now calm and
grave. "They will do their duty."

"Even as we will do ours. And thus will Gaul be delivered," answered my father. "You also will
do your duty, old man-eater, old Deber-Trud!" added the brenn, stroking the enormous head of
the war-dog, who in spite of his chain, was standing up with his paws on the horse's shoulder.
"Soon will come the hour of the quarry, fine bloody quarry, Deber-Trud! Her! Her! To the Romans!"

The mastiff and the rest of the war pack responded to these words with furious bayings. The
brenn, my brother and myself cast one last look upon our families. My father turned his spirited
stallion's head towards the ranks of the army, and speedily came up with them. I followed my
father, while Mikael, robust and agile, holding tightly with his left hand to the long mane
of my galloping horse, ran along beside me. Sometimes falling in with the sway of the horse,
Mikael leaped with it, and was thus raised off the ground for several steps. We two, like many
others of our tribe, had in time of peace familiarized ourselves with the manly military exercise
of the Mahrek-Ha-Droad. Thus the brenn, my brother and myself rejoined our tribe and took our
stand in the ranks of battle.

The Gallic army occupied the summit of a hill about one league's distance from Vannes. To the
east their line of battle was covered by the forest of Merek, which was filled with their best
archers. To the west they were defended by the lofty cliffs which rose from the bay of Morbihan.
At the lower end of the bay was the fleet, already weighing anchor to proceed to the attack
of the Roman galleys, which, motionless as a flock of sea-swans, lay at rest on the waves.
No longer piloted by Albinik, the fleet of Caesar, although floated by the rising tide, still
held its position of the previous evening, for fear of running upon the invisible rocks.

Before the army flowed the River Roswallan. The Romans would have to ford it in order to attack
us. Skillfully had the Chief of the Hundred Valleys chosen his position. He had before him
a river; behind him the town of Vannes; on the west the sea; on the east the forest of Merek:
its border chopped down, offered insurmountable obstacles to the Roman cavalry; and with an
eye to the Roman infantry, the best of Gaul's archers were scattered among the mighty trees.

The ground before us, on the opposite side of the river, rose in a gentle slope. Its crest
hid from us the road by which the Roman army would arrive. Suddenly, on the summit of the slope
there dashed into view several Ares mountaineers, who had been sent out as scouts to signal
to us the approach of the enemy. They dashed down the hill at full speed, forded the river,
joined us, and breathlessly announced the advance of the Roman army.

"Friends!" the Chief of the Hundred Valleys called out to each tribe as he passed on horse-back
before the army in battle array; "rest on your arms until the Romans, drawn up on the other
bank of the river, begin to cross it. At that moment let the slingers and archers shower their
stones and arrows upon the enemy. Then, when the Romans are forming their cohorts on this side,
after crossing, let our whole line fall back, leaving the reserve with the war-chariots. Then,
the foot soldiers in the center, the cavalry on the wings, let us pour down in a torrent from
the top of this rapid decline. The enemy, driven back again to the river, will not withstand
the impetuosity of our first charge!"

Immediately the hill-top opposite the army was covered by the numberless troops of Caesar.
In the vanguard marched the "Harassers," marked by the lion's skin which covered their heads
and shoulders. The old legions, named from their experience and daring, as the "Thunderer,"
the "Iron Legion," and many others whom the Chief of the Hundred Valleys pointed out to his
men, formed the reserve. We saw glittering in the sun the arms and the distinctive emblems
of the legions, an eagle, a wolf, a dragon, a minotaur, and other figures of gilded bronze,
decorated with leaves. The wind bore to us the piercing notes of the long Roman clarions, and
our hearts leaped at the martial music. A horde of Numidian horsemen, wrapped in long white
robes, preceded the army. The column halted a moment, and several of the Numidians went down
at full tilt to the brink of the river. In order to ascertain whether it was fordable, they
entered it on horse-back, and approached the nearer side, notwithstanding the hail of stones
and arrows which the Gallic slingers and archers poured down upon them. More than one white
robe was seen to float upon the river current, and more than one riderless horse returned to
the bank and the Romans. Nevertheless, several Numidians, in spite of the stones and darts
which were hurled upon them, crossed the entire breadth of the river several times. Such a
display of bravery caused the Gallic archers and slingers to hold their fire by common accord,
and do honor to such supreme valor. Courage in our enemies pleases us; it proves them more
worthy of our steel. The Numidians, certain of having found a ford, ran to convey the news
to the Roman army. Then the legions formed in several deep columns. The passage of the river
commenced. According to the orders of the Chief of the Hundred Valleys, the archers and slingers
resumed their shooting, while Cretan archers and slingers from the Balearic Islands, spreading
over the opposite bank, answered our people.

"My sons," said Joel to us, looking towards the bay of Morbihan, "your brother Albinik advances
to the fight on the water as we begin the fight on land. See--our fleet has met the Roman galleys."

Mikael and I looked in the direction the brenn was pointing, and saw our ships with their heavy
leathern sails, bent on iron chains, grappling with the galleys. The brenn spoke true. The
battle was joined on land and sea simultaneously. On that double combat depended the freedom
or slavery of Gaul. But as I turned my attention from the two fleets back to our own army,
I was struck to the heart with a sinister omen. The Gallic troops, ordinarily such chatterers,
so gay in the hour of battle that from their ranks rise continually playful provocations to
the enemy, or jests upon the dangers of war, were now sober and silent, resolved to win or die.

The signal for battle was given. The cymbals of the bards spoke back to the Roman clarions.
The Chief of the Hundred Valleys, dismounting from his horse, put himself some paces ahead
of the line of battle. Several druids and bards took up their station on either side of him.
He brandished his sword and started on a run down the steep hill-side. The druids and bards
kept even pace with him, striking as they went upon their golden harps. At that signal, our
whole army precipitated itself upon the enemy, who, now across the river, were re-forming their
cohorts.

