And with that the old lawyer turned away to go back to the library; while the poet, though
not altogether without a somewhat annoying notion that he was laughed at, was nevertheless
delighted with the excellent idea that had been suggested to him.

"I made him understand that you could not see him. All he wanted was to tell you just what
I have already communicated to you," said the lawyer, as he came back into the room. "He said
too, by-the-by, that all the town was talking of the offer of marriage made by the Marchese
Lamberto to Signora Bianca Lalli--"

"Of course, of course," groaned the Marchese, tossing himself restlessly from one side to the
other of his chair. "And to think that at the very time,--at the hour when I was communicating
to you the decision I had arrived at with regard to--to that unfortunate-- to poor Bianca,
she was even then, as it would seem, lying dead in the forest. It is very, very terrible."

"And I told the Signor Conte that he could not do better than contradict such a report wherever
he heard it," added the lawyer, who began almost to fancy, from a something that seemed strange
to him in the Marchese's manner, that the catastrophe which had come to relieve him in such
a terrible manner from the scrape he had got himself into with the singer, was not altogether
unwelcome to him.

"It is of no use, Fortini," returned the Marchese, with a groan; "it is of no use. That old
man, her reputed father, knows it; their servant knows it; Ludovico knows it: and, of course,
his knowledge of it will have to be made public."

"Nevertheless, the denial of it by such a tongue as that of the Conte Leandro Lombardoni can
do no harm in the meantime," said the lawyer, quietly. "It may be," he added, "it may be that
something may turn up to prevent any public accusation of the Marchese. It may be that he is
not guilty. It may be that the deed may yet be brought home to some other hand."

"Do you think that, Fortini? do you think that likely?" said the Marchese, with a quickly withdrawn
anxious look into the lawyer's face.

"No, frankly, I do not think it likely. I fear that it is very certain that his hand is the
guilty one. Nevertheless, it may be--it is difficult to say--it may be. At all events, it is
always time enough to abandon hope. I must leave you now, Signor Marchese; I will see you again
to-morrow morning."

"Many, many thanks, my good Signor Giovacchino. Do not forget to come. Remember how dreadfully
anxious I must be to hear what passes: above all, the result of the medical examination--specially
the result of the medical examination."

"I will not fail to come. I miei saluti, Signor Marchese."

CHAPTER V

Doubts and Possibilities

Ix passing through the hall of the Palazzo the lawyer, who was well acquainted with every servant
in the house, took an opportunity of speaking a few words to the Marchese's old valet, Nanni.

"The Marchese seems to have been a little overtired when he came back from the ball this morning,
Nanni; and then this is a sad affair about the Marchese Ludovico."

"Ahi, misericordia! To think that I should live to hear of a Castelmare arrested in Ravenna.
The world is coming to an end, I think, Signor Giovacchino."

"Vexing enough; but not so bad as all that, I hope. No doubt Signor Ludovico will be able to
clear himself before long."

"Clear himself!" re-echoed the old servant, very indignantly; "that's just what they say when
some poor devil of the popolaccio is at odds with the police. The Marchese di Castelmare clear
himself! Well, I've lived to see a many things, but I never thought to see the day that such
people should dare to meddle with a Castelmare."

"The Marchese Ludovico himself thought fit to go to them to give explanations."

"Ah! He'd have done better to take no notice of 'em, to my thinking," said the old man, shaking
his head. "But is it true, Signor Giovacchino, what people say, that--?"

"There is mostly very little truth in what people say, Nanni," interrupted the lawyer. "But
I'll tell you what: a good servant should hear all and repeat nothing. It's natural that such
an old friend as you should want to know all about it, and to you I shan't mind telling the
whole story as soon as I know the rights of it myself. But it vexes me to see the Marchese
so put out about it; and then I don't think he has been quite well latterly."

"Nothing like well, these days past, Signor Giovacchino. The Marchese has not been like himself
noways. I think he is far from well."

"Does he get his rest at night? That is a great thing at his time of life. He seems to me like
a man who has not had his natural sleep. I suppose he went to bed when he came home from the ball?"

"Yes, directly. He seemed in a hurry like to get to bed. When he was about half undressed he
said it was time I was in bed myself, and sent me away, and I heard him lock the door."

"Does he generally lock the door at night?" asked the lawyer.

"No; and I knew by that that he meant to have a good sleep, and not be disturbed this morning.
So I never went near him till I heard his bell, between ten and eleven o'clock; and when I
went he was just getting out of bed, so that he had a matter of six hours' sleep."

"It don't seem to have done him much good any way," rejoined the lawyer, thinking to himself
that the hours during which Nanni supposed his master to have been sleeping, had more probably
been spent in restless agitation, the result of bringing his mind to the determination which
he had definitely announced to the lawyer, when he had summoned him about an hour after he
had risen from his sleepless bed. "I shall come and see how he is to-morrow morning," the lawyer
added; "and I hope I may bring some good news about Signor Ludovico."

Behind the Palazzo Castelmare there was an extensive range of stabling and coach-houses, with
a large stable-yard opening on to a back street, which was the nearest way to the house of
the Signor Professore Tomosarchi, on whom Signor Fortini thought he would call, just to ask
whether he had yet seen the body, or at what hour in the morning he thought of making his post-mortem
examination. Crossing the stable-yard for this purpose, the lawyer was accosted by Niccolo
the groom, who was engaged in doing his office on a handsome bay mare at the stable-door.

Niccolo was the oldest servant in the establishment, having filled the same place he now held
under the Marchese's father. He was an older man by several years than the Marchese Lamberto;
and he it had been, who, when the present Marchese was a child of ten years old, had put him
on his first pony, and been his riding-master. Old Niccolo, like every other old Italian servant
of the old school, held, as the first and most important article of his creed, the unquestioning
belief that the Castelmare family was the most noble, the most ancient, and in every respect
the grandest in the world, and the Marchese Lamberto the greatest and most powerful man in
it. He was a good sort of man in his way, was old Niccolo; went to confession regularly; and
did his duty in that state of life to which it had pleased Providence to call him according
to his lights; was honest in his dealings; knew in a rough sort of way that veracity was good,
and unveracity bad, to such an extent as to understand that truth-telling should be the rule
and lying the exception; and was faithful to the death to his employer.

Old Niccolo was also a very perfect specimen of the product of a peculiar way of thinking,
which was a speciality of the rapidly disappearing class to which he belonged. He did not imagine
for a moment, that the laws and rules of morality and duty, by which he had been taught, that
he ought to regulate his own conduct, were at all applicable to his master. Even if he had
ever troubled his mind by plunging so far into the depths of speculation, as to consider, that
in truth the various matters forbidden in the commandments were in the sight of God, or, what
was more within his ken, in the sight of the Church, equally forbidden to all men, still it
would have been clear to him that there was no reason why such great people as the Marchese
di Castelmare, with Cardinals for his friends, and wealth enough to pay for any quantity of
indulgences and masses he might require, should not indulge in peccadilloes and vices which
poorer folks cannot afford. Probably, however, he had never reached any such profundity of
speculation. He saw that the Church and its ministers treated his superiors very differently
from their treatment of him, and expected from him quite different conduct from that which
they expected from them. And the result was an habitual and practical belief, that the great
folks of the world, of whom he considered that his own master was unquestionably the greatest,
were far above the laws in every sort which were binding on himself and the like of him.

Nor of all the many acts which honest Niccolo would have scrupled to do on his own account,
would he have hesitated a moment to become guilty at the command, or on the behoof of, his
master. As for his own soul's weal, it probably was sufficiently safeguarded by the paramount
nature of the duty which required him to do the will of his employer; or, in any case, what
was his soul that any care for it should come into competition with the will of the Marchese
Lamberto di Castelmare? Niccolo would have been profoundly ashamed at admitting to any one
of his own class that the family he served were not so great and so masterful as to render
it a matter of course that their will must override all other considerations whatsoever.

To old Niccolo it was indeed as a symptom of the end of all things-- as a rising of the powers
of darkness against the established order of God's world that a Marchese di Castelmare should
be arrested. It was incomprehensible to him. There was but one power great enough, as he understood
matters, to accomplish so dread a catastrophe; and that was the power of the Marchese Lamberto
himself. And he inclined accordingly to the belief, that if indeed the Marchese Ludovico were
in prison, the truth was that for some inscrutable reason the Marchese Lamberto chose that
so it should be.

"Is it really true, Signor Giovacchino," whispered the old man, coming close up to the lawyer,
as the latter was crossing the stable-yard; "is it really true that the Marchese Ludovico has
been put in prison?"

"Well, that much is true, I am afraid, Niccolo; but I hope it may not be for long," said Fortini,
pausing in his walk, as though he were not unwilling to talk to the old man.

"Couldn't ye say a word to the Marchese, to take him out?" said the old groom coaxingly; "if
so be as the woman is dead, what is the use of any more ado about it?"

"Well, I hope there may not be much more ado about it. She was probably killed, poor woman,
by some strolling vagabonds. But I wish it had not happened to vex the Marchese just now. He
is not well, the Marchese. Has he ridden much lately?"

"Hasn't backed a horse since the first week in Carnival," said the old groom emphatically.

"I hope he will take to his riding again, now Carnival is over. I think it helps to keep him
in health," remarked the lawyer.

"I'm sure I wish he would, for my part," returned the groom; "and I wished it this morning,
I can tell you. I was a-taking his own mare out this morning--it's a week since she has been
out of the stable-- and she was that fresh it was pretty well more than I could do to hold
her. I brought her in all of a lather, and splashed with mud to her saddle-girths. People;
must ha' thought I had been riding a race,--that is, if any of them had seen me when I came
into the yard; but there wasn't a soul of 'em stirring. Catch any of the lot up at that time
the first morning in Lent."

"He is getting old, too. It would have been a mighty hard horse to ride that my friend Niccolo
would not have been able to hold a year or two ago," thought the lawyer to himself, as he walked
out of the stable-yard into the little back street that runs behind the palazzo, and pursued
his way thoughtfully towards the residence of the celebrated anatomist.

And again, as he walked, the lawyer turned his mind, with all the analytical power of which
he was master, to the question whether or no there were any possibility of hope that the Marchese
Ludovico were innocent of the crime imputed to him,--whether there were any other theory possible
by virtue of which any other person might be suspected of the deed.

His anxiety to speak with Professor Tomosarchi indicated, indeed, that he had not wholly abandoned,
despite what he had said on that point both to the Marchese Ludovico and his uncle, the hope
that the death might be pronounced to have resulted from natural causes. Possibly, had the
lawyer possessed more medical knowledge, this chance might have seemed to him a somewhat better
one; but, to his thinking, it was altogether incredible that a healthy girl of Bianca's age
should lie down to sleep, and, without any such change of position as would disorder her attire--without
any evidence of a death-struggle--should simply never wake again. Again the lawyer's meditations
told him that small hope was to be found in this direction.

Were there any persons in the city who might be supposed to feel enmity or ill-will towards
the singer? Many a one of the young nobles had, doubtless, been kept at arms' length by Bianca
in a manner that might easily be supposed to breed hatred in a vain and ill-conditioned heart.
But murder--and such a murder! It was difficult to suppose that such a cause should be sufficient
to produce such an effect; yet vanity is a very strong and a very evil- counselling passion.

Vanity? Ha! could it be? Surely there never was so absurdly, so grossly, vain a creature, as
that Conte Leandro? And the poor murdered Diva had quizzed, and snubbed, and mortified him
again and again. The lawyer had heard that much; and Leandro was aware of the fact that Bianca
was to be in the Pineta at that time. So much was clear from what the Marchese had said. But
she was to be there with Ludovico--how could the poet expect to find her alone? Could it be
that he had followed them merely for the sake of making mischief and rendering himself disagreeable,
and had chanced to come upon her asleep and alone? Could this be the clue?

But it would surely be easy to ascertain to a certainty whether the Conte Leandro had left
the city that morning or not. If only it could be shown that he had done so? The amount of
probability that he had really been the perpetrator of the crime, or the possibility of convicting
him of it, would signify comparatively little. It would be sufficient if only a competing theory,
based on a possibility, could be set up; if only such an alternative possibility could be presented
to the minds of the judges as should justify them in feeling that the matter was too doubtful
to warrant a conviction.

Then, suddenly, as he thought on all the causes of hatred that Bianca might be supposed to
have inspired, his mind reverted to those words which Signor Pietro Logarini, the head of the
police, had let drop when speaking of the Signorina Paolina Foscarelli:-- "Women, who are fond
of a man, don't like to see him with another woman, and a beautiful one, under the circumstances
in which the Marchese might have been seen with Bianca."

That was the sense of the remark to which the Commissary had partially given utterance; and
now the lawyer thought of it. He was tempted to believe that Logarini had been struck by the
same idea that had before flashed into his mind almost with the force of a revelation.

Might it not have been the hand of the Venetian girl, maddened by jealousy, which had taken
the life of her rival, while she slept?

Such a story would by no means be now told for the first time. Very far from it. Men had not
now to learn furens quid foemina possit.

Paolina was known to have left the city at that suspiciously strange hour of the morning. She
was known to have been, at all events, at no very great distance from the spot where the crime
was committed.

And was it not possible that, on the theory of Ludovico's innocence, the true explanation of
the exclamation, which had escaped from him at the city gate, was to be found in supposing
that he, too, had been struck by a similar thought? Might not that outcry on Paolina, uttered
when the speaker knew well that it was Bianca and not Paolina that lay dead before him, have
been forced from him by the sudden thought that she had done the deed then revealed to him?

For the first time the shrewd lawyer began to feel a real doubt as to the author of the crime,
It might be that the Marchesino was innocent after all, that his account of the events of that
morning, as far as he was concerned, was simply true. As his mind dwelt on the matter the case
against Paolina seemed to acquire additional force. It could be proved that this girl had been
deeply and seriously attached to the Marchese Ludovico. It could be proved that she had seen
her lover tete-a-tete with so dangerous a rival as the singer in circumstances that she had
every right to consider very suspicious. It could be proved that she had been not far from
the spot where the murder was committed much about the time when the deed must have been done.

It is an essentially and curiously Italian characteristic that the lawyer's rapidly growing
conviction that Paolina had indeed been the criminal was strengthened and made easier of acceptance
to his mind by the fact that the suspected criminal was not; a townswoman but a Venetian. It
would have seemed less possible to him that a young Ravenna girl should have done such a deed.
But one of those terrible Venetian women of whom so many blood-stained tale of passion and
crime were on record!

Signor Fortini really began to think that his mind had strayed into the true path towards the
solution of the mystery at last. And he was very much inclined to think that the germ of such
a notion had already been deposited in the mind of the Police Commissioner.

In any case here was wherewithal to establish such a case of suspicion as should make it difficult
for the tribunal to condemn the Marchesino on such evidence as could be brought against him,
supposing no new circumstances to be brought to light.

Not for that reason, however, was the lawyer disposed to relinquish the idea which had occurred
to him as to the possibility of incriminating the Conte Leandro. The more circumstances of
doubt it was possible to accumulate around the facts, so much the better.

Signor Fortini thought that he saw his way clearly enough to the means to showing that it was
very presumable that the Conte Leandro had conceived a violent and bitter hatred of the murdered
woman, It was enough to base a case for suspicion on. The lawyer had no idea that the poet
had been the murderer. He did not dream of the possibility that he should be convicted of the
crime. He had, doubtless, been quietly in bed in Ravenna at the hour it had been committed.
But he might find it difficult to prove that he had not quitted the city on that Wednesday
morning. And the suggestion of the possibility of his guilt would, at all events, be an element
of doubt and difficulty the more.

With these thoughts in his mind Signor Fortini suddenly changed his immediate purpose of going
to the Professore Tomosarchi; and determined to walk as far as the Porta Nuova and make inquiry
himself of the people at the gate as to the testimony they might be able to give respecting
Paolina's exit from the city at a very early hour on that morning. At the same time, it might
be possible to lead them into imagining that they had seen some other passenger, who might
have been the Conte Leandro. It was very desirable that this inquiry should be made without
delay. For it was no part of the duty of the gate officers to make any written note of such
a circumstance; and it would entirely depend on their recollection to say whether such or such
a person had passed the gate. At the same time, that such a person as this Paolina Foscarelli
should pass out of the city at such an hour in the morning, was sufficiently out of the ordinary
course of things to make it very unlikely that it should not be remembered by the officials.

As the lawyer pursued his way towards the gate in deep thought he was comforted as to the complexion
of his client's case by the consideration of his own state of mind. He found it impossible
to come to any definitive conclusion as to the balance of the probabilities. At one moment
his mind swung back to his original conviction that the Marchese Ludovico had yielded to the
temptation of making himself safe from the destitution that awaited him if his uncle's purpose
were carried out. The persuasion that it was so seemed to come like a flash of light upon him.
Then, again, thinking of all the stories of what women have done under the influence of a maddening
jealousy, he reverted to the superior probability of the other hypothesis.

Arrived at the gate the lawyer's success was greater than he had ventured to anticipate. Both
the persons respecting whom he made inquiry had been seen to pass out of the city at a very
early hour that morning.

To his great surprise he heard that the Conte Leandro had passed the gate before it was daylight;
and the officer had been struck by the strangeness of the circumstance. He was much muffled
up in a large cloak, with a broad-brimmed hat drawn down over his eyes and face. But his person
was perfectly well known to the official; and he had recognized him without difficulty.

He also perfectly well remembered seeing the girl--a remarkably pretty girl--pass through about
an hour or a little more afterwards. And, imagining that the one circumstance explained the
other--that it was an affair of some assignation outside the city in the interest of some amourette
that was attended by difficulties within the walls--he had thought no more about it.

But Signor Fortini knew enough to feel very sure, that the exceedingly singular facts, as they
seemed to him, of both these persons having gone out of the city in the direction of the Pineta
at such an unusual hour, was not to be accounted for by any such explanation. But neither did
it seem in any degree likely or credible, that these two facts, the passing out of the Conte
Leandro, and the passing out of Paolina, should have had any connection with each other in
reference to the murder in the Pineta.

It was strange, very strange!

It was so strange and unaccountable that Signor Fortini felt that, unless some fresh circumstances
should be brought to light beyond those which had as yet become known either to him, or to
the police, it was safe to predict that the tribunal would not have the means of coming to
any conclusion concerning the author of the murder.

The lawyer turned away from the gate, and strolled through the streets without any intention
as to the direction in which he walked, so deeply was he pondering upon the possibilities that
were brought within his mental vision by the extraordinary facts he had ascertained.

He would almost have preferred, he thought, as he pursued his way profoundly musing, that it
should have been shown that one only, instead of both the persons towards whom the possibilities
he had imagined, pointed, had gone at that strange hour towards the locality of the crime.

Nevertheless, as he said to himself, the more doubt, the more elements of difficulty, the better.
In truth the chance seemed to be a very good one, that it might never be known who gave that
wretched girl her death.

CHAPTER VI

At the Circolo again

At the Circolo that evening there was no lack of subject for conversation, as may be easily
imagined. The rooms were very full, and every tongue was busy with the same topic.

"For my part I don't believe that La Bianca is dead at all. What proof have we of the fact?
Somebody has been told that somebody else heard some other pumpkin-head say so. Report, signori
miei, is an habitual liar, and I for one never believe a word she says without evidence of
the truth of it," said the Conte Luigi Spadoni, a man who was known to make a practice of reading
French novels, and was therefore held to be an esprit fort and a philosopher, in accordance
with which character he always professed indiscriminate disbelief in everything.

"Oh come, Spadoni, that won't do this time. Bah, you are the only living soul in the town that
don't believe it then. Evidence, per Dio! Go and ask the men at the Porta Nuova, who received
the body, when the contadini brought it in," cried a dozen voices at once.

"But Spadoni has the weakness of being so excessively credulous," said a bald young man with
gold spectacles, looking up from a game of chess he was playing in a corner.

"Who, I? I credulous? That is a good one! Why I said, man alive, that I disbelieved it," cried
Spadoni, eagerly.

"I know it, and very credulous indeed it seems to me, to believe that all the people, who say
they have seen the prima donna's dead body, should be mistaken in such a fact, or conspiring
without motive to declare it falsely. I call that very credulous," said the chess-player, quietly.

"Did you ever see such an addle-pate. He can't understand the difference between believing
and disbelieving," rejoined Spadoni triumphantly, and carrying the great bulk of the bystanders
with him.

"But as to the poor girl being dead, there is unhappily no shadow of doubt at all," said the
Baron Manutoli; "I saw old Signor Fortini the lawyer just now, who told me that he was at the
Porta Nuova when the body was brought in."

"And is it true that the Marchese Ludovico was with him, and fainted dead away at the sight
of the body?" said a very young man.

"It is true that Ludovico was there with Fortini at the gate, but I heard nothing about his
fainting; and should not think it very likely."

"Well, I don't know about that, I should have thought it likely enough by all accounts," said
the Conte Leandro Lombardoni, whose face was looking more pasty and his eyes more fishy than usual.

"Much you know about it. Why, in the name of all the saints, should it be likely? What should
Ludovico faint for?" rejoined Manutoli, fiercely.

"What for? Well, one has heard of such things. And as for what I know about it, Signor Barone,
maybe I have the means of knowing more about it than anybody here," said the poet.

"Here is Lombardoni confesses he knows all about it," cried one.

"That ought to be told to the Commissary of Police" said another

"I say, my notion is that Lombardoni did it himself," exclaimed a third.

"Ah, to be sure. What is more likely? We all know how the poor Diva snubbed him. Remember the
fate of his verses. If that is not enough to drive a man and a poet to do murder I don't know
what is. To be sure, 'twas Leandro did it," rejoined the first.

"I can believe that, if I never believe anything else," said Spadoni.

"Let's send to the Commissary and tell him that the Conte Leandro confesses that it was he
that murdered La Bianca, cried one of the previous speakers.

"What on earth are you dreaming of," cried the persecuted poet, turning ghastly livid with
affright; "I know nothing about the matter, nothing! How in the world should I know anything
about it?"

"Oh, I thought you knew more about it than anybody else just now," sneered one of his persecutors.

"He looks to me very much as if he did know something about it in sober earnest," said the
bald-headed chess-player; who had been looking hard at the evidences of terror on the poet's face.

"But where is the Marchese Ludovico?" asked the same young man, who had heard that the Marchese
had fainted at the sight of the body.

A general silence fell on the chattering group at this question: till Manutoli answered with
a very grave face "Ah, you must ask the Commissary of Police that question, Signor Marco."

"You don't mean that he is arrested," returned the youngster thus addressed.

Manutoli nodded his head two or three times gravely, as he said, "That is the worst of the
bad business; and a very bad business it is in every way."

"You don't mean that you think Ludovico can have done it, Manutoli?" said one of the others.

"No, I don't say I think so. I don't know what to think. I should have said, that I was just
as likely to do such a thing myself, as Ludovico di Castelmare. But if there is any truth in
what is said, that the Marchese Lamberto was going to marry the girl, it looks very ugly. God
knows what a man might be driven to do in such a case."

"I suppose if the old Marchese were to marry and have children, Ludovico would have about the
same fortune as the old blind man that sits at the door of the Cathedral?" asked the previous
speaker.

"Just about as much. He would be absolutely a beggar," said the Conte Leandro, who appeared
to find considerable pleasure in the announcement.

"I think, that if that was the case, and Ludovico had put the unlucky girl out of the way,
it would be the Marchese Lamberto who ought to bear the blame of it. An old fellow has no right
to behave in that sort of way," said one of the group.

"Of course he has not. To bring a fellow up to the age of Ludovico in the expectation that
he is to have the family property; and then to take it into his head. to marry when he is past
fifty. If Ludovico had put a knife into him instead of into the girl, I should have said that
it served him right," said another.

"And what was the good of murdering the girl? If the old fellow wants to be married, he will
marry some other girl if not this one. Girls are plenty enough," said a third.

"Ay, but not such girls as La Bianca--what a lovely creature she was! I don't wonder at the
Marchese being caught by her, for my part, seeing her every day as he did," remarked a fourth.

"Bah, girls are plenty enough, as Gino said, and pretty girls too. And if the Marchese was
minded to marry, it wasn't the murder of this poor girl that would stop him," said one of the
others.

"And that is a strong reason, as it strikes me, for thinking that Ludovico had nothing to do
with it. He must have known, as well as we, that it was likely enough his uncle would find
somebody else," remarked Manutoli.

"Well, we shall see. But I would wager a good round sum that Ludovico did it," said the Conte
Leandro; who had by that time recovered his tranquillity.

"Oh, now here's Leandro, who begins to think again that he does know something about it," said
the Barone Manutoli.

"I said nothing of the sort, Signor Barone. How should I know? But everybody may have his opinion,
and that is mine. We shall see by- and-by," returned Leandro, waspishly.

"I'll tell you what, signori miei," said Manutoli; "let it turn out as it may, it is the saddest
and worst affair that has been seen in Ravenna for many a day. I won't admit the thought, for
my part, that the Marchese Ludovico has really committed this murder. I should prefer to suppose,
that some vagabonds had done it for the sake of robbery, and had been disturbed before they
could carry out their purpose, or anything. But it is a very sad affair. I would have done
I don't know what, rather than that it should have happened. Think what will be said. That's
what an artist gets by venturing to Ravenna. You will see the noise that will be made all over
Italy."

"But why does it follow that anybody is to blame, at all? Why may she not have put herself
to death?" said one of the previous speakers.

"A suicide! that is a new idea. But it does not seem a very promising one. Why should she kill
herself? She was in the full tide of success, and had just received an offer of marriage, if
what we hear is true, from the richest man in Ravenna. Is it likely that she should choose
just that moment to make away with herself?" replied another.

"In any case the doctors will know what to tell us about that. They can always tell whether
anybody has killed themselves or been murdered by somebody else."

"By the way, Signor Barone, have you heard whether the medical report has been made yet? But
I suppose the police would not let us know what the doctor's opinion was, if it had been made.
Who knows who has been employed to examine the body?"

"I know!" answered the Baron Manutoli, "the Professore Tomosarchi. And whatever can be found
out by examining the body, he will find out, depend upon it. I was asking about it just now.
The examination will take place to-morrow morning."

"But who ever heard of such a thing as going off to the Pineta at that time in the morning,
and after being up all night at a ball too?" said Lombardoni, spitefully. "Why, it looks as
if a man must have had some scheme, some out-of-the-way motive of some kind to do such a thing."

"Not at all," returned Manutoli angrily," I don't see that at all. A charmingly imagined frolic,
I should say, a capital wind-up for a last night of carnival. I should have liked it myself."

"And then," said one of the others, "one can't refuse such a girl as La Bianca. And it's two
to one that she asked Ludovico to take her, for a lark."

"But I happen to know," said Leandro, quickly, that it was he who proposed it to her. He persuaded
her to go."

"And how in the world do you know that, pray?" asked Manutoli, turning sharply upon him.

"I--I heard it said. I was told so. I am sure I don't know who it was said so. Nobody has been
talking about anything else. Some fellow or other said that Ludovico had proposed the trip to her."

"The fact is, in short, that you know just nothing at all about it. You happen to know, forsooth!
It seems to me, Signor Conte, that you are strangely ready to fancy you know anything that
might seem to go against Ludovico," rejoined Manutoli.

"And what would be the result if it should turn out that he was guilty--if be were condemned?"
asked one of the younger men, looking afraid of his words, as he spoke them.

"God knows,--the galleys, I suppose. But one must not imagine such a thing. It is too frightful,"
said Manutoli.

"Horrible! Shocking! Impossible!" cried a chorus of voices.

"Good God! Result! The disgrace and destruction of the noblest family in the province. The
ending of a fine old name in infamy. Gracious heaven, it is too horrible to think of," exclaimed
Manutoli, with much emotion.

"It would kill the old Marchese as dead as a door-nail, for one thing," said another of the
group of young men.

"And serve him right too. If it is really true that he has contemplated being guilty of such
a monstrous piece of injustice and folly," said the same man, who had before expressed a similar
opinion.

Just then a servant of the Circolo came into the room and put a note into the hands of the
Baron Manutoli.

"It is from Ludovico, asking me to go to him. So there's an end to our game of billiards, Signor
Conte," said Manutoli to one of the group; "I must go at once."

"But you'll come back here after you've seen him, won't you? You'll come back and tell us all
about it, Manutoli?" said two or three of the group which had been discussing the topic.

"I don't know, I shall see. I will, if I can--if it's not too late. It may be that I shall
be detained with him. I suppose that he has had no means of communicating with any of his people
since the police folk clapped their hands on him."

"Do look in here for a moment, Manutoli. We shall all be anxious to hear about him, poor fellow,",
said another of the young men, who had pressed around Signor Manutoli as soon as it was known
from whom his note had come.

"If I can I will. It is likely enough he may want me to go somewhere else for him. We shall
see. A rivederci, Signori."

CHAPTER VII

A Prison Visit

The note which had been given to the Baron Manutoli begged him to come with as little delay
as possible to the Palazzo del Governo.

Adolfo Manutoli was a somewhat older man than the majority of those who had formed the group
which had been discussing the all-absorbing topic of the day at the Circolo; and he was Ludovico
di Castelmare's most intimate friend among the younger members of the society in which he lived.
It was a friendship strongly approved by the Marchese Lamberto, as might have been perceived
by his selection of Manutoli to accompany him on the occasion of meeting La Lalli on her first
arrival in Ravenna, as the reader may possibly remember. And the special ground of this approval
was Manutoli's strong advocacy of the projected marriage between Ludovico and the Contessa
Violante, and his consequent disapproval and discouragement of his friend's friendship and
admiration for Paolina. He was not a man who would have counselled or desired his friend to
behave badly or unworthily to Paolina or to any woman; for he was a man of honour and a gentleman.
But, short of any conduct which could be so characterized, he would have been very glad to
see the Marchese quit of an entanglement which alone stood in the way, as he conceived, of
his forming an alliance so desirable in every point of view as the marriage with the great-niece
of the Cardinal Legate.

"Can I be permitted to see the Marchese Ludovico, Signor Commissario? He has requested me to
come to him," said the Baron, on arriving at the police-office.

"Certainly, Signor Barone. I myself sent his note to you. Though, on his own statement of the
very unfortunate circumstances connected with this unhappy affair, I was compelled to detain
him, still there is at present no definite accusation against him which should justify me in
preventing him from having free communication with his friends. You shall be taken to his room
immediately. You will see, Signor Barone, that we have endeavoured to make him as comfortable
as the circumstances would allow."

"Manutoli," said Ludovico, after the first expressions of astonishment and condolence had been
spoken between the young men, "of course I knew I should see you here before long; and my note
was to call you at once, instead of waiting to see you in the morning; because I want you to
do something for me before you sleep this night--something that I don't want to wait for till
to-morrow morning."

"To be sure, my dear fellow, anything; I am ready for anything, if it takes all night."

"Thanks. Well, now, look here: I am innocent of this deed--"

"S' intende; of course you are."

"S' intende, of course; that's just the worst of it. It is so much a matter of course that
I should say I had not done it if I had, that my saying so is of no use at all. Nevertheless,
to you I must say that I neither did it nor have I the slightest conception or suspicion who
did. And you may guess that the fact itself is a horror and a grief to me that I shall never
get over, putting this dreadful suspicion of my own guilt out of the question. A horror and
a grief, and a remorse, too; for if I had not moved away from her the tragedy could not have
happened."

"I really do not see that you need blame yourself for--"

"I ought not to have left her side. Yet, God knows, it never entered my head to dream of the
possibility of any harm; all seemed so still, so peaceful, so utterly quiet; yet, at that moment,
the hand that did the deed could not have been far off."

"Let the circumstances have been what they might," resumed Manutoli, after a moment's pause,
"nobody would have dreamed of connecting you with the deed had it not been for the strong motive
which seems so clear and intelligible to every fool who sets his brains to work on the matter.
I suppose it is true that you had been informed of your uncle's intention to offer the poor
girl marriage?"

"True that I had been told of it, for the first time, by herself during our drive, poor girl."

"Ah--h--h! To think of such a man being guilty of such insane folly- -and of all the misery
that is likely to grow out of it. How on earth did she ever contrive to get such a fatal influence
over him?"

"She schemed for it from her first arrival here--aimed avowedly to herself at nothing less
than inducing the Marchese di Castelmare to marry her--and succeeded. For all that, I'll tell
you what, Adolfo-- there was a great deal more good in that poor girl than you would have thought."

"Bah! Good in her--Well, she's gone. She has had her reward, poor soul; and I pity her with
all my heart. But as for the good in her-- "

"There was good in her, and not a little. I tell you that if you or any one else could have
heard all that passed between us, I should hardly be suspected of having murdered her, poor girl."

"That is likely enough; but--"

"Do you know, Manutoli, I have a very strong idea that if this had not happened, the marriage
with the Marchese would never have come off?"

"You think that, between us all, we should have induced him to listen to reason?"

"I don't know about that; I was not thinking of that; I think that Bianca would have been induced
to listen to reason; I think that the scheme would have come to nothing through her renunciation
of it."

"When, according to your own account, she had been scheming all the time she has been here
to bring it about?" said Manutoli, with arched eyebrows.

"Yes, even so. She had never known--how should she?--that such a marriage would turn me out
on the world a beggar; she had never known what sort and what degree of misery and ruin it
would bring about to all parties."

"And you told her this?"

"Yes, in some degree I told her. As to the effect of such a marriage on myself, I told her
simply the entire truth."

"And you are disposed to think that the Diva--No, poor girl! I didn't mean to speak sneeringly
of her. She has paid for her fault a heavier penalty than it deserved, any way. You are disposed
to think, then, that she would have given up the prize of all her scheming--this marriage,
which was to have given her everything in the world that she could desire, and more than she
could have ever dreamed of attaining; she would have voluntarily relinquished all this, you
think, for your sake?"

"I'll tell you what it is, Manutoli. A man can never appreciate,-- can never fathom, the depth
of woman's generosity till he has tried it."

"But, caro mio,--after all I don't want to be hard upon her, poor soul, God knows!--but to
expect generosity on such a point from such a woman--"

"You may say what you will, Manutoli, I know what she was, poor girl, as well as you do--better,
a great deal; for, I tell you, that there was a real generosity in her nature. Look here,"
continued Ludovico; after a pause of a minute or two, "I would not say it to anybody else than
you, or to you either, except under circumstances that make one wish to state the whole truth
exactly as it was. It seems so coxcomblike,--so like what our friend Leandro would say; but
I may say it to you. The fact is, I have a kind of idea that that poor Bianca was inclined
to like me. She cried when I told her- -"

"Aha, j'y suis! Now I begin to be able to fathom the depth of a woman's generosity. Given the
fact of becoming Marchesa di Castelmare, the lady was not disinclined to become so by catching
the nephew instead of the uncle; and small blame to her."

"You do not do the poor woman justice, Manutoli."

"Any way, I do you justice; and I know you well enough, Ludovico mio, to understand that the
generosity of such a girl as this poor Lalli was, taking that special form, must have been
very touching to you."

"You forget, Manutoli, how little accessible I was to the flattery of any such preference,
with my whole heart full of a very different person."

"And I was just thinking, to tell you the truth, how the little scene in the bagarino would
have struck that other person if she could have seen La Bianca giving you to understand, amid
her tears, upon what terms she would consent not to come between you and your natural inheritance."

"That other person did see us in the bagarino; and that brings me to the motive which led me
to beg you to come to me this evening. Somehow or other, it has become known to these people
here that Paolina went out of the Porta Nuova at a very early hour this morning. The fact is,
that she simply went to see whether the scaffolding, which I had had prepared for her copying
work there, was all right, and ready for her to begin her task there; and all that can be proved,
of course. But the same idea that occurred to you just now, that Paolina might not have liked
to see me driving with La Bianca, has suggested itself to some other wiseacre,--I beg your
pardon, Manutoli,--and it seems that an absurd notion--a notion the monstrous absurdity of
which is a matter of amazement to me--has been engendered that my poor Paolina may have been
the perpetrator of the crime. The idea! If they only knew her! But the Commissary here has
been cross-questioning me in a way that shows that is the notion he has in his head. Whether
they know that Paolina really did see us in the bagarino together--she did so from the window
in the Church of St. Apollinare--or whether they only know that she left the city by that gate
early in the morning, I can't tell; but it is sure to be found out that she did really see
us,--the more so, that she will say so to the first person who asks her" the poor innocent
darling. And what I want you do is to see her, and prepare her, poor child, for the possibility
of being arrested, and make her understand that no harm can possibly come to her. Try to save
her from being frightened. She knows well enough, just as well as I know myself, that I have
not done this thing. Try to make her understand that a little time only is necessary for the
finding out of the real culprit; that it is sure to be discovered, and that, as far as we are
concerned, it is all sure to come right."

"You wish me to go to her at once?"

"Yes, if you would be so kind. What I am anxious for is that you should see her before any
order for her arrest shall have been issued. But that is not all. I want you to see Fortini
also. I want you to ascertain from him how far it is possible or probable that any suspicion
may rest on Paolina in consequence of the facts which are known; how far it is likely that
any attempt may be made to set up a case against her. And I want you to tell him that it will
be wholly and utterly vain to make any such attempt, that the result would only be entirely
to cripple my own defence. For you must understand once for all, and make him understand once
for all, that rather than allow her to be convicted of a deed of which she is as innocent as
you are, I would confess myself to be the guilty party. It shall not be, Manutoli, mark what
I say, it shall not be, that she shall be dragged to ruin and destruction by my misfortune,
or imprudence, call it what you will. Of this, of course, you will say no word to her. But
I beg you to leave no shade of a doubt as to my settled purpose in this matter on the mind
of Signor Fortini. It is he, of course, who will have the duty of preparing and conducting
my defence; and it is essential that he should understand this rightly. Will you do this for me?"

"Of course I will--this or anything else that I can do for you. But I can't undertake to say
what Signor Giovacchino Fortini may think, or say, or do in the matter, you know. I will take
your message, and then, of course, you will see him yourself in the course of to- morrow morning.
Of course, old fellow, I need not tell you that I am sure you did not murder the girl; but
it is altogether one of the most mysterious things I ever heard of. Nevertheless my notion
is that we shall find out the culprit yet. And you may depend on it that two-thirds of the
whole population of the town will be moving heaven and earth to get some clue to the mystery
for your sake."

"It seems to me, too, that such a deed cannot but be found out. I should be more uneasy than
I am, did I not console myself with thinking so. Now go to Paolina, there is a dear good fellow."

"One word more--shall I see the Marchese?"

"I think, perhaps, it is best not to do so. Of course Fortini has been with him, and told him
everything. I almost thought that I should have seen him here this evening; but, under the
circumstances, I am better pleased that he should stay away. Better leave him to Fortini."

"Good-night, then."

"Good-night. You will let me see you to-morrow?"

"I won't fail. Good-night."

CHAPTER VIII

Signor Giovacchino Fortini at Home

The Baron Manutoli was Ludovico di Castelmare's very good friend. But there are two sorts of
friends--friends who show their friendship by wishing, and endeavouring to obtain for us, what
we wish for ourselves; and friends, whose friendship consists in wishing for us things analogous
to what they wish for themselves;-- who endeavour to procure for us, not what we wish, but
what they consider to be good for us.

Now the Baron Manutoli belonged to the latter of these two categories. He was some years older
than Ludovico; had been a married man, and was now a widower with one little boy,--the future
Baron Manutoli; and considered himself as having been blessed with a supreme and exceptional
degree of good fortune, with regard to all that appertained to that difficult and often disastrous
chapter of human destinies which concerns the relations of mankind with the other sex. Happiness
and advantages, ordinarily incompatible and exclusive of each other, had in his case by a kind
destiny been made compatible. For the representative of an old noble family to remain single,
was bad in many points of view. But on the other hand--when one's ancestral acres are not so
extensive as they once were, and in nowise more productive--when one likes a quiet life enlivened
by a moderate degree of bachelor's liberty,--when one sees the interiors of divers of one's
contemporaries and friends,--when one thinks of mothers-in-law, and sisters-in-law, and a whole
ramified family-in- law!--the Baron Manutoli, though he had grieved over the loss of his young
wife when the loss was recent, was now, after some ten years of widower's life, inclined to
think that of the man, who had a legitimately born son to inherit his name and estate, who
had done his duty towards society by taking a wife, and who was yet enabled to enjoy all the
ease and freedom from care of a bachelor's life, it might be said, "Omne tulit punctum."

Far as he was from undervaluing the importance of the social duties of a man and a nobleman
in respect to these matters, he had always been an earnest advocate of the marriage which Ludovico
was expected to make with the Contessa Violante; and had regarded poor Paolina, from the first,
as an intruder and disastrous mischief-maker; and Ludovico's love for her as the unlucky caprice
of a boy, respecting which, the evident duty of all friends was to do all they could to discourage
it, put it down, and get rid of it.

So that in the matter of the commission which Ludovico had entrusted to him, the Baron was
likely enough to have somewhat different views from those of his friend.

What a happy turning of misfortune into a blessing it would be, if this shocking affair should
be the means of getting rid of this unlucky Paolina altogether! Not, of course, that the Baron
was capable of wishing that such getting rid of should be accomplished by the unjust condemnation
of the poor girl for such a crime. God forbid! But, if there should be found to be a sufficient
degree of suspicion--of unexplainable mystery--to cause the exoneration of Ludovico, and at
the same time, an intimation to the Venetian stranger that she would do well to remove herself
from the happy territory of the Holy Father, what a Godsend it would be!

Then, again, as to the real fact of Paolina's innocence, Manutoli was seriously disposed to
think that there might be grounds for considerable doubt. Ludovico's assertions to that effect
were of course unworthy of the slightest attention; the mere ravings of a man in love. Of course,
also, the menace he held out, that if any attempt were made to throw the onus of the crime
on Paolina, he would meet it by avowing himself guilty, was as entirely to be disregarded.
The paramount business in hand was to clear his friend of this untoward complication in the
matter of the crime which had so mysteriously been committed. The next consideration was to
set him equally free from his entanglement with Paolina. And with these thoughts in his mind,
the Baron decided that, upon the whole, it would be better that he should have an interview
with lawyer Fortini, before making his visit to the lady.

He knew that it was too late to look for the lawyer at his "studio;" and therefore went directly
to his residence, where he found the old gentleman just concluding his solitary supper. Being
the evening of Ash Wednesday, the meal had consisted of a couple of eggs, and a morsel of tunny
fish preserved in oil, very far from a bad relish for a flask of good wine. And the lawyer
was, when Manutoli came in, aiding his meditations by discussing the remaining half of a small
cobwebbed bottle of the very choicest growth of the Piedmontese hills.

"I owe you a thousand apologies, Signor Fortini, for coming to trouble you with business, and
very disagreeable business too, here and at such an hour," began the Baron; "but the interest
we all feel--"

"Not a word of apology is needed, Signor Barone. About this shocking affair in the Pineta,
of course, of course? Pur troppo, we are all interested, as you say. Will you honour my poor
house, Signor Barone, by tasting what there is in the cellar? I ought to be ashamed to offer
this wine, my ordinary drink at supper, to the Barone Manutoli"--(the old fellow knew right
well that there was not such another glass of wine in all the city, and that it was rarely
enough that his noble guest drank such)--"but it is drinkable." And so saying, he called to
his old housekeeper to bring another bottle and a fresh glass before he would allow Manutoli
to say a word on the business that brought him there.

"And now, Signor Barone," said the old lawyer, as soon as the wine and the praise it merited,
had been both duly savoured, "about this bad business? Do you bring me any information? Information
is all we want. I hope and trust information is all we want," he repeated, looking hard at
the Baron.

"Of course, that is all we want; information which should put us on some clue to the real perpetrator
of this crime."

"That is what we want; that is the one thing needful; and it is absolutely needful," said the
lawyer, again looking meaningly in his companion's face.

"Of course that is what we want. But even supposing no light upon the matter can be got at
all, it is not to be supposed that--that any judge would consider there was sufficient ground
for assuming our friend to be guilty?"

"Ah, that's just the point; just the point of the difficulty. We must not expect, Signor Barone,
that the judges will look at the question quite with the same eyes that we do. They will have
none of the strong persuasion that we--ahem!--that the Marchese Ludovico's friends have--that
he is wholly incapable of committing such a crime. On the other hand, they are men used to
suspicion, and to the habit of considering a certain amount of suspicion as equivalent to moral
certainty. And I confess--I must confess, my dear sir, that I am very far from easy as to the
result, if we should be unable to find at least some counterbalancing possibilities, you understand?"

"But it seems to me, Signor, that such are already found; and it was just upon this point that
I was anxious to speak with you to-night. I have just seen Ludovico. He sent for me to the
Circolo. And what he mainly wanted was to bid me go to the Signorina Paolina Foscarelli, in
order to prepare her for the probability of her own arrest, and to comfort her with the assurance
that no evil could come to her. Also I was directed by him to tell you, that any attempt to
fix the guilt of this deed on the girl, would be met by an avowal--a false avowal, of course--that
he is himself the guilty person."

"Ta, ta, ta, ta! Mere stuff, chatter, the talk of a boy in love with a pretty girl," said the
lawyer.

"Just so, just so. Of course we pay no attention to all that. I promised to go to the girl
as he told me; and I shall do so presently. But I thought it best to see you first. The fact
is, Signor Fortini, that I do not feel any one bit of the certainty that he professes to feel,
that this Venetian girl may not have been the real assassin."

The lawyer looked shrewdly into Manutoli's face, and nodded his head slowly three or four times.
"What would there be so unlikely in it," pursued Manutoli; "girls, and Venetian girls too,
have done as much and more before now? We know that she is in love with him. She sees him going
on such an expedition as that with such a girl as La Bianca. She has already, no doubt, had
cause to be jealous of her. Ludovico used to see the Lalli frequently. What is more likely?"

"Stay, Signor Barone, one minute. This is an important point; you say that this Paolina saw
her lover with La Bianca. How do you know that? and how did it come about?"

"Ludovico just told me so; and the girl, it seems, herself told him. Her story is that she
went out to St. Apollinare at an early hour this morning to look after a scaffolding or some
preparation of some kind that had been made for her to copy some of the mosaics in the church;
and that from a window of the church, being on the scaffolding, she saw Ludovico and La Bianca
driving by in a bagarino. Now all this probably is true enough. The question is, What did she
do then, when she saw what was so well calculated to throw her into a frenzy of jealousy? My
theory is, that she followed them into the forest, dogged their steps, and finding her opportunity
at the unlucky moment when Ludovico left Bianca sleeping, did the murder there and then."

The old lawyer started up from his seat, and thrusting his hands into the pockets of his trousers
took a hasty turn across the room; and then resuming his seat, tossed off a glass of wine before
making any reply.

"And a very good theory too, Signor Barone. I make you my compliment on it," he said at last.
"I was not aware of all the facts, the very, important facts, you mention. I had ascertained
that this Venetian girl left the city by the Porta Nuova at a strangely early hour this morning;
and that was enough already, to fix my eye upon her. But what you now tell me is much more
important; advances the case against her to a far more serious point. Upon my word," continued
the lawyer, after a pause for further meditation; "upon my word I begin to think that it is
the most likely view of the case that this Signorina Paolina Foscarelli has been the assassin.
At all events it seems quite as likely a theory as that the Marchese should have done it. Fully
as likely," added the lawyer, rubbing his hands cheerily; "the motive, as motives to such deeds
go, is quite as great in her case as in his. Greater, or at least more probable! Jealousy has
moved to such acts more frequently than mere considerations of interest."

"To be sure it has," cried Manutoli; "I think that the circumstances bear more conclusively
against her than against him; I do, upon my life."

"If only something do not turn up to show that it could not have been done by her, I think--I
do think that we have got all that is absolutely necessary for us. For observe, Signor Barone,
it is not necessary that she should be convicted. If there is such a probability that she may
have been the criminal as to make it impossible to say that it is far more likely that one
of the parties suspected should be guilty than the other, there can be no conviction, and our
friend is safe."

"But I say that all the probabilities are in favour of the hypothesis that she did the deed,"
cried Manutoli, warmly.

"Much will depend on the report of Tomosarchi," said the lawyer. "The inquiry arises, how far
it was possible for a young girl to do that which was done."

"It is evident that she was murdered in her sleep," observed the Baron.

"It looks like it; it seems clear that there could have been no struggle of any sort. Still,
we must hear how the murder was done; we must know whether the means were such as might have
been in the power of this girl," rejoined Fortini.

"Well, we shall know all that to-morrow. God grant that the Professor's report may be a favourable
one," said Manutoli, thinking little of the savageness of his wish as regarded the poor artist.
But, to the mind of the Baron, it was a question between one who was a fellow-creature of his
own, and one who could hardly be considered such. How was it possible to put in comparison
for a moment the consideration of a fellow-noble of his own city and that of a poor unknown
foreign artist?

"I trust it may; I build much on the fact that there was no struggle. She was put to death
by some means which scarcely allowed her time to wake from the sleep," returned the lawyer.
"You are going, then, now, Signor Barone, to see this Paolina?"

"Yes; if I find her still up, which I suppose I shall, for it is not late," said Manutoli,
looking at his watch.

"Better be a little cautious in speaking to her, you know; best to avoid alarming her," said
Fortini.

"The express object of my visit to her is to prevent her from being alarmed," rejoined the Baron.

"Yes; but--what I mean is that--it would be desirable, you see, to lead her to speak. What
we want now is to know exactly what she did and where she went after seeing the Marchesino
and La Bianca in the bagarino together. Also to ascertain whether she was seen by anybody to
do whatever she did or to go wherever it was she went. And, I think, that you might very probably
learn this from her more effectually than I should. She would be more likely to be on her guard
with me, you see."

"I'll try what I can do; my real belief is that she is the guilty person," said Manutoli.

"To-morrow I will see what I can do at St. Apollinare. She cannot have been in the church without
seeing and speaking to somebody. There are a Capucin and a lay-brother always there, I take
it; we shall see what they can tell us. But I can't go out there till after the medical examination.
I have arranged with my old friend Tomosarchi to be present at it," said the lawyer.

"I shall be most anxious to hear the result," said the Baron.

"If you will be here about ten o'clock--my breakfast hour--I shall be able to tell you."

"Thanks. A rivederci dunque--"

"Stay; one more word before you go, Signor Barone. As we are both engaged in this inquiry,
and both interested on the same side, I may as well tell you, perhaps, that there is one other
person to whom my attention has been drawn as being open to suspicion in this matter-- the
Conte Leandro Lombardoni."

"The Conte Leandro! You don't say so! Impossible!"

"Just listen one moment, Signor Barone. It is certain that the Conte Leandro passed out of
the city by the Porta Nuova at a very early hour this morning--at an earlier hour than either
the girl Paolina or the Marchesino and La Bianca."

"The Conte Leandro--out of the Porta Nuova--at such an hour in the morning. For what possible
purpose?"

"Ay, that is the question. For what possible purpose? But the fact is certain. Though endeavouring
to conceal himself by means of his cloak, he was perfectly well recognized by the men at the
gate. For what possible purpose? No doubt you know, Signor Barone, much better than I, who
am not much in the way of hearing of such things--unless in cases where I make it my business
to hear of them, you understand, Signor Barone,--you, no doubt, know that the Signor Conte
has been besieging, as I may say, this poor Lalli woman with his attentions and verses ever
since she came here; also, that the lady would have nothing to say to him or to his verses--that
she has, in short, snubbed him and mortified his vanity in the sight of all the town during
the whole of the past Carnival."

"That is true--it is all true," cried Manutoli, eagerly, and looking almost scared by the ideas
the lawyer was presenting to his mind. "It is even truer, than you, perhaps, are aware of.
She said sneering and cutting things of him in his hearing both at the Marchese Lamberto's
ball and at the Circolo ball; I happen to know it."

"Hey--y--y--y?" said the lawyer, uttering a sound like a long sigh, with a question stop at
the end of it; and then thrusting out his lips and nodding his head up and down slowly while
he plunged his hands into the pockets of his trowsers. "I'll tell you what it is Signor Barone,"
the old man added, after a pause of deep thought, "I was anxious to find such plausible grounds
of suspicion against other parties, such element of doubt, such possibilities as might make
it difficult for the judges to condemn our friend. I wanted to puzzle the court; but, per Bacco!
I have puzzled myself. This afternoon, I confess to you, I had little doubt but that the Marchesino
had, in a fatal moment of anger and desperation, committed the crime. But, upon my word now,
I know not what to think. Here we have three parties, each of whom we know to have been acted
on by one of three strong passions. We have jealousy, and wounded vanity. Which of the three
has done the deed?"

"It is an extraordinary circumstance," said the Baron Manutoli, "that they were jeering at
the Conte Leandro at the Circolo just now, about the way the Diva had snubbed him and his verses,
and accusing him in joke of having been her murderer. And, as sure as I am now speaking to
you, Signor Fortini, he looked in a way then that I--a--a--in short that I thought very odd--turned
all sorts of colours. But then, you know, he is always such an unwholesome- looking animal."

"One of the vainest men I ever met with," said the lawyer, musing.

"Oh--for vanity--I believe you. Leandro has not his equal for vanity."

"And strong vanity, deeply wounded, by a woman too, will breed a hate as violent and vicious,
perhaps, as any passion that ever prompted a crime," rejoined the lawyer, still meditating
deeply. "Per Dio Santo!" he exclaimed, after a pause of silence, striking his open palm strongly
on the table, as he spoke, and speaking with a sort of solemn earnestness, "I am inclined to
think, after all, that he is the man. The Marchesino," he went on again, thoughtfully, "went
out for a frolic--intelligible enough; The girl went out to look after the preparations for
her work--again quite plausible. But in the name of all the saints what took the Conte Leandro
out of the Porta Nuova at that hour of the morning, after passing the night at a ball?"

"I still think that the Venetian girl has done the deed," said Manutoli, whose opinion was
no doubt in some degree warped by his desire that the criminal should turn out to be a foreign
plebeian rather than a Ravenna noble. "After all Leandro is not the man to do such a deed.
He is such a poor creature. Besides, it seems to me that the girl's motive for hate was the
stronger. I don't know that wounded vanity has had many such crimes to answer for, whereas
jealousy--and such a jealousy--why, it is an old story you know."

"Well, we shall see. Any way, I am very much more easy as to the result. Short of such evidence
as it seems very highly unlikely should be forthcoming, I do not think that there can be any
conviction at all. It is most extraordinary that in the case of such deed, done in such a place,
at such a time, there should be so many persons so fairly liable to strong suspicion."

"Of course, to produce the result we wish, a case must be set up against Leandro?" said the Baron.

"Of course. Leave that to me, or rather to the police. No doubt their inquiries have already
put them on his track. The fact of his having gone out of the city by that gate, at that hour,
is quite enough."

"And now I must be off to see this Signorina Foscarelli. I don't half like the job."

"I daresay you will find her easy enough," said the lawyer, not quite understanding the nature
of Manutoli's distaste for his errand. "Good-night, Signor Barone."

CHAPTER IX

The Post-Mortem Examination

The Baron Manutoli found Paolina quite as "easy" as the lawyer had imagined that he would find
her; but his task was not altogether an easy one in the sense he had himself intended. She
made not the slightest difficulty of telling him, that when she had seen Ludovico and Bianca
drive past the church towards the forest she had felt a strong temptation to follow them thither;
she told him all about the conversation she had had with the old monk, and repeated the directions
she had received from him as to the path by which she might reach the Pineta, and return that
way towards the city, without coming back into the high-road, till she got near the walls.
She confessed that, when she had followed the path behind the church leading to the Pineta,
for some little distance, she had changed her mind, and had turned off by another path, which
had brought her back into the high-road not far from the church; and she said that she had
then walked on till she came near the walls, where she turned aside to sit down on one of the
benches under the trees of the little promenade; that she had sat there for some time--she
did not know how long; had then gone in to the Cardinal Legate's chapel, where she had conversed
with the Contessa Violante, whom she knew from having often met her there before; and had at
last returned home at a very much later hour than she had expected, and had found her friend
Signora Orsola Steno uneasy at her prolonged absence.

"And did you mention to the Contessa the shocking fact of the prima donna's death?" asked Manutoli,
suddenly, thinking that he was doing a very sharp bit of lawyerly business in laying this trap
for Paolina.

"How was it possible that I should do so, when I knew nothing about it till Ludovico told me
several hours later?" answered the girl, with an unembarrassed easiness and readiness that
almost changed Manutoli's opinion as to the probability of her guilt.

He reminded himself, however, that the same woman, who could be capable of such a deed might
also be expected to have the presence of mind and readiness necessary for avoiding any such
trap as that which he had laid for her.

He was, at the same time, strongly, but perhaps not altogether consistently, impressed with
the fact; that during the whole of his interview with her, she did not once distinctly and
directly deny that she had had anything to do with the crime. When warning her, as he had been
charged by Ludovico to do, of the probability that she might be arrested, he had allowed her
to understand that the circumstances of this case were such, that the question of who was the
guilty person became nearly an alternative one between herself and the Marchese. On which,
instead of protesting her own innocence, she had strongly insisted on that of Ludovico, which
seemed a very suspicious circumstance to the Baron Manutoli.

He had tried to lead her to express some feeling, or, rather, some remembrance of what had
been her feeling when she saw Ludovico and La Bianca in the bagarino together; but there she
became reticent, and would say little or nothing--another suspicious circumstance in the eyes
of the Baron, so that, when he quitted her, he was, upon the whole, rather confirmed than otherwise
in his previous opinion as to her guilt.

"Well, Signorina," he had said, in rising to leave her, "I came here, in compliance with my
friend's request, to re-assure you on the subject of the warrant which will, in all probability,
be issued to-morrow morning for your arrest. You best know whether you have any reason for
alarm. My own opinion is, that if you have nothing to reproach yourself with, you have nothing
to fear. I trust it may be so."

"I am grateful to you for coming, Signor," Paolina said. "You will see Ludovico again. Tell
him that I am as sure of his innocence of this horrid thing as if he had never quitted my side."

How Paolina passed that miserable night it is useless to attempt to tell. How happy all, ay,
even all, the days of her previous life seemed to her in comparison with the misery of the
minutes that were then so slowly passing.

Early the next morning Signor Fortini called at the house of his friend Dr. Buonaventura Tomosarchi,
the great anatomist, for the purpose of accompanying the Professor to the room at the hospital,
where the body of Bianca was awaiting the post-mortem examination which had been ordered by
the police.

"I suppose," said Fortini, as they walked together, "that there is no possibility, in such
a case as this, that the death may have been a natural one?"

"Oh, I would not say that at all. Such things occur at all ages. I do not think it is likely,--specially
in the case of such a magnificent organization as that of yonder poor girl; but there is no
saying, and, above all, no use in attempting to guess when we shall so soon know all about
it," said the Professor, a man some ten or fifteen years younger than the old lawyer.

"Is it possible that death may have been caused by foul means, yet by such as may elude your
investigation?" asked Fortini.

"I think not--I should say almost certainly not in such a case as the present. There are poisons
that act subtly and instantaneously, but there is the odour in most cases,--in almost all some
indication of their operation on the organization."

Arrived at the hospital they found a couple of assistants, pupils of the Professor, awaiting
his arrival. There was also an official on the part of the police, and there were two or three
persons waiting in the hope of being allowed to be present at the examination. The police officer,
however, very summarily declared that this could not be permitted. Fortini was so well known,
and held such a kind of half-official position and character in the city, that he passed on
unquestioned on the arm of the Professor.

The body lay exactly as it had been brought in by the labouring-men who had found it in the
Pineta. The beautiful face was perfectly calm, and in the lineaments of it the difference that
there is between death and sleep was scarcely perceptible. The white dress was almost as unruffled
and as spotless as when she had put it on. It had been fastened about midway between the neck
and the waist by a diamond pin or brooch; but this fastening was now undone, and the brooch
was hanging loosely on one side of the bosom of the dress. It was impossible to suppose that
this jewel should have been so left by anybody who had had the opportunity and the desire of
plunder. It might have been unfastened by the wearer before she slept for the sake of more
full enjoyment of the balmy breezes of the pine-forest: and the result of this loosening of
the dress was that the light folds of it opened freely as far down as the waist, so that the
slightest drawing aside of them, such as even the breeze might effect, was sufficient to leave
bare the entire bosom.

On either shoulder and on the bosom lay the large heavy waves of the rich auburn hair. In death,
as she had been in life, she was still a wonder of beauty; and the two men, the old lawyer
and the Professor, little as, from years, character, and habits of mind, their imaginations
were susceptible of being deeply touched by such a sight, stood for awhile by the side of the
table on which the body had been laid, and gazed in sad silence on the sight before them.

"One might think she was still sleeping, poor creature," said the lawyer, after a silence of
a few minutes.

"Ay, almost. It is a wonderfully lovely face. Seems difficult to believe, doesn't it, that
any man--. Much less such a man as the Marchese--should have stood over that figure, and so
looking down on it, have decided on destroying it?" said the Professor.

"Perhaps no man did so," said the lawyer.

"Case of death from natural causes, you mean? I am afraid not, I am afraid not. Can't say for
certain yet; but, judging from appearances, I fear there is no likelihood that such was the
case," rejoined the Professor.

"I was not thinking of that," replied Fortini. "I meant that what a man could hardly have had
the heart to do might, perhaps, have been done by a woman. Beauty is not, I fancy, always found
to produce quite the same sort of effect on another female as it is wont to produce on the
other sex."

"Might have been done by a woman? That seems hardly likely, I think, caro mio. In the Pineta
at that hour of the morning? Che! What woman is likely to have been there?"

"Well, we happen to know that there was a woman very near the spot where the crime was committed
at the time that it was committed."

"You don't say so?" interrupted the anatomist. "Good heavens! This is quite new to me, and,
of course, most important. I am delighted to hear what seems to cast so strong a doubt on the
guilt of the Marchesino."

"And that is not all. We know further," continued the lawyer, eagerly, "that the woman in question
had the strongest of all the possible motives that ever influence a female mind to hate--to
desire the death of this poor girl that now lies here. The question is, whether this death
was caused by any means which a woman--a young girl--may be supposed to have used," said the
lawyer.

"Ha! a case of jealousy, I suppose? You don't mean it. God knows, I should be more glad than
I will say if there were any means of showing that the Marchese Ludovico had no hand in the
matter. If it were brought home to him it would kill my old friend the Marchese Lamberto outright;
I do believe it would kill him."

"I thought at first, to tell you the truth, Signor Professore, that it must have been the Marchesino
who did the deed; the circumstances seemed so terribly strong against him. But--certain facts
have come to my knowledge--in short, I begin to have very great hopes that he was in reality
wholly innocent of it; and still greater hopes that if we cannot succeed in bringing the crime
home to any other party, yet that the difficulty and doubt hanging about the case will be so
great that all conviction will be impossible."

"A woman, you tell me? A young woman, I suppose, from what you say?" said the Professor, inquiringly.

"Yes; a young woman, and, as I am told, a very pretty one--a certain young girl--a Venetian
artist, of the name of Foscarelli--Paolina Foscarelli, with whom it seems the Marchesino was
foolish enough to fall in love. Well, this girl sees the Marchese and Bianca driving out alone
together at that time in the morning to the Pineta--that much we know--sees them cheek by jowl
together in a little bagarino, doing heaven only knows what--billing and cooing. Now it seems
to me that she would, under these circumstances, be likely to feel not altogether kindly towards
the lady in possession, eh, Signor Professore? You know the nature of the creatures better
than I do; what do you think about it?"

"Similar little accidents have produced as terrible results before now--ay, many a time, there
is no denying that. If we can ascertain how the deed was done it will be likely enough to throw
some light on the probabilities of the case," returned the Professor, proceeding to scrutinize
carefully the body as it lay before in any way disturbing the position or the garments.

"Ha! what have we here?" he cried, as he perceived, and, at the same time, pointed out the
existence of a very small red spot upon the white dress just above the waistband. In an instant,
as he spoke, he whipped out a powerful magnifying-glass, and carefully examined the tell-tale
spot by its aid.

"Yes, that is a spot of blood--blood sure enough! but it is very singular that there should
be such a minute spot, and no more; no, I can find no further trace," he added, after a careful
and minute examination of every part of the dress.

"Might not any trifling accident--the most insignificant thing in the world--produce such a
mere spot as that--a scratched finger-- either her own or another person's?" asked the lawyer.

"Well, hardly so; a slight stain might easily be so caused; but hardly a round spot like that.
That spot must have been caused by a small drop falling on that place--not by the muslin having
been brought into contact with any portion of blood, however small. How could that one little
round drop of blood have come there?" said the anatomist, thoughtfully. "It is singular enough."

Then, when the dress had been removed preparatory to the examination of the body, the Professor
himself and his assistants minutely searched every part of it--in vain. There was no other,
even the smallest, mark of blood to be found.

"Are you sure that that spot is blood?" asked the lawyer.

"Are you sure whether a deed is signed or is not signed when you see it?" retorted the anatomist.
"Yes; that spot has been caused by a drop of blood falling there--a very minute drop. Of that
there can be no doubt. And now we must proceed to examine the body externally. If there should
be nothing to be learned from that, we must see what revelations the knife may bring to light."

And then the Professor, aided by his pupils, proceeded to institute a minute and careful examination
of the body.

At the first sight it appeared to be as unblemished in every part of it as Nature's choicest
and most perfect handiwork could be. So little did a mere cursory view suggest the possibility
that life would have been destroyed by any external violence, that the Professor was about
to take the necessary steps for ascertaining what light could be thrown on the manner of her
death by the internal condition of the different portions of the organism, when the sharper
eyes of one of the young assistants were drawn to a very slight indication, which he immediately
pointed out to his superior.

The appearance in question consisted of a very small round white spot, around which there was
a slight equally circular redness. It was situated nearly in the middle of the body, just below
the meeting of the ribs on the chest, about a broad hand's breadth above the waistband--in
such a position, in short, as to be very nearly at the point where the neck-opening of the
dress ceased.

No second glance was needed, as soon as the Professor's attention had been called to this appearance,
to ensure the riveting of his attention on it. Nor was much examination necessary to convince
him that he had now, in truth, discovered the cause and the means of death.

The slight mark in question was, in fact, the trace of a wound inflicted by a very fine needle,
which had pierced the heart, and, having caused immediate death, had been left in the wound,
ingeniously hidden by means which it needed a second look to discover. The effect of this discovery
on the Professor was singular. He seemed taken aback by it, and, one would have said, alarmed
at it, in a manner which it seemed difficult for Signor Fortini to account for. "What is it
astonishes you so, Signor Professore," said he; "surely you were prepared to find that a murder
had been done? I never had any doubt of it; and why not in that way as well as another? And
a very ingenious mode of inflicting death in a quiet way it seems to be."

"Yes, indeed. The fact is that I was struck by--"

The Professor broke off speaking suddenly with a start; and darted a quick alarmed glance at
the face of Signor Fortini, who did not fail to remark it, and to be much puzzled by the Professor's
manner.

The latter, while he had been speaking, had stooped to examine the minute trace of the wound
closely, and had put his finger on the spot; and it was on doing so that he had interrupted
himself, and shown renewed symptoms of surprise and dismay. What this closer examination had
shown him was the fact that an infinitesimally small portion of white wax had been very neatly
and carefully introduced into the orifice of the wound, in such a manner as to prevent all
effusion of blood, and almost to escape the observation of the naked eye.

"Why, one would say you were a novice at this sort of thing, Tomosarchi, you seem so much affected
by it," said the lawyer; "what is it that moves you so? Why, you are as pale, man, as if you
were bringing to light a crime of your own instead of somebody else's."

"Ah! not that exactly. No, but it is a very singular thing. One would say that this death must
have been caused by some one who had some little knowledge of anatomy, or, at least, had been
put up to the trick by some one else who possessed such knowledge," said the Professor, recovering
himself with an effort.

"And that is what our friend the Marchesino Ludovico is most assuredly innocent of. I take
note of your remark, Signor Professore," said the lawyer.

"But one would think, that all the other persons on whom it is possible that suspicion might
rest, must be equally void of any such knowledge," returned Tomosarchi.

"How do we know that? How can I tell what strange odds and ends of knowledge this Venetian
artist may have picked up. Artists,--they have constantly more or less acquaintance with medical
students, and such like. Some knowledge of anatomy is needful to them in their business. For
my part, it seems to me very likely that this girl might have such knowledge as would teach
her so easy a way of getting rid of her rival. Then you will observe that very little physical
strength was needed for the infliction of such a wound. It might have been done perfectly easily
by the hand of a young girl. I declare it seems to me that the result of your examinations
tends to make it more probable than ever that the Venetian is the criminal."

"Well, it may be so. Certain it is, that no degree of strength beyond what she, or any other
such person could have exerted, was needed for giving that death to a sleepy person. But it
is equally clear that a certain amount of special knowledge was required for the purpose,"
rejoined the anatomist. "And now," added he; "I must draw up my report. A rivederci, Signor
Fortini! A rivederci, Signori!"

"One word more, Signor Professore, before I leave you," said the lawyer; "is the special knowledge
you speak of, such as--any member of your profession we will say--would be possessed of."

"Well, I should not say that it was likely such a method of concealing a crime would have suggested
itself to such an one, more than to another. It is the clever invention of one who meditated
murder. But, I may say at once to you, what I shall have to say in due season to the magistrates,
that the trick is not a new one. I have heard of such a thing before now."

"But not as a common thing," pursued the lawyer.

"Quite the reverse--as a very strange and peculiar thing," replied the Professor.

"And when did you bear of a case of murder committed in this strange and peculiar manner?"
persisted the lawyer.

The Professor shot a sharp quick glance at the lawyer's face; and his own flushed red as he
replied, "Ay--if I could remember that-- but it is a reported case; anybody may have read it.
A murder was committed by similar means in the Island of Sardinia, not very long ago!"

"Not very long ago," reiterated the lawyer, musingly.

"No, not very long ago; but the case has been reported, I tell you. Anybody may have read it."

"Humph," said the lawyer, as he turned to go, with his mind evidently busily at work both on
the strange sort of confusion that had been visible in the Professor's manner, and on the circumstances
he had elicited from him.

"I'll tell you what," said one of the young students to the other, while they were engaged
in preparing to consign the body of the murdered woman to the police. "I'll tell you what:
I'll be blessed if I don't think the governor knows, or has a shrewd guess, who it is has done
this job. Did you mark the way he looked, and went as pale as death, when I showed him the place?"

"Bah, nonsense! He was vexed that he had not seen it himself. How should he know anything about
it?"

"I don't know how; but I know him, and his ways," said the first speaker.

"But if he thinks he has any guess at the murderer, why don't he say it at once?" asked the
younger lad.

"Ah, yes, I think so; I should like to see him at it. That's not his business, that's the lawyer's
business. You may depend on his keeping his own secret, if he has got one. The governor likes
quiet sailing in still water, he does. But if he did not see something more in this little
bit of steel and atom of wax, that have stopped a life so cleverly, than the mere things themselves
and the effect of them,--why, then, I know nothing about old Buonaventura Tomosarchi, that's all."

"How see something more?" said the younger lad, open-eyed.

"Saw who put 'em there, Ninny. It is not everybody who could be up to such a dodge; and I feel
sure the governor could make a shrewd guess who did that clever trick."

CHAPTER X

Public Opinion

The post-mortem examination had taken place at an early hour, before the members of the idler
portion of the society of the city had come forth from their homes. An Italian idler--one of
the class who, in common Italian phrase, are able to "fare vita beata," to lead a happy life,
i. e. to do nothing whatever from morning till night--an Italian of that favoured class never
passes his hours in his own house, or dwelling of whatever kind it may be. As soon as he is
up and dressed he goes out into the city to enjoy the air and sunshine if it be fine weather,
to saunter in cafes or at the Circolo, if it rain.

Professor Tomosarchi and lawyer Fortini had been earlier afoot, and the scene described in
the last chapter had passed, and the general results of the examination were beginning to be
known in the city, when the jeunesse doree of Ravenna began to assemble at the Circolo. It
was known also by that time that the young Venetian artist, with whom Ludovico was well known
to be on intimate terms of some kind or other, had been arrested at her lodging at an early
hour that morning, on suspicion of having been concerned in the murder of La Bianca.

Of course that terrible event continued more than ever to occupy the attention of all Ravenna,
almost to the exclusion of every other topic of conversation. It was very easy to understand
the nature of the motive, which might be supposed to have led Paolina to do the deed. And when
it became known farther, that the means by which the death of the victim had been brought about
were such as might easily have been accomplished by the weakest woman's hand; and that it had
been discovered that Paolina had been in the Pineta--for such was the not quite accurate form
which the report assumed just about the time when the crime must have been committed, the general
opinion inclined very much to the notion that she, the stranger from Venice, was, indeed, the
assassin.

Precedents were hunted up, and many a story told of women who had done equally desperate deeds
under similar provocation.

"I feel very little doubt of it, myself," said Manutoli; "there is nothing improbable in such
a solution, while it is in the highest degree improbable that Ludovico should have raised his
hand against a sleeping woman, enticed by him in the forest for the purpose. Bah! It is monstrous."

"He would have been more to be pitied than blamed if he had done it," said another of the young
men, who did not bear himself a reputation of the most brilliant sort; "if I had a rich uncle
I swear by all the saints, that I would not let the prettiest woman that ever made a fool of
a man, come between me an my inheritance."

"Ludovico was not the man to have done it any way. Besides, the mischief had not been done;
it was only a project talked of. There might have been a hundred ways of breaking off so absurd
a match. It would have been time to have recourse to les grands moyens, when the thing had
been done, and all else had failed. To my notion jealousy has done it."

"So say I. Two to one I bet that it turns out that the Venetian girl has done the trick."

"But have you heard, all of you, that there is a third horse in the field?" said the Marchese
Faraoni whose palazzo was close to the house in which the Conte Leandro lived; "there is another
candidate for the galleys. Has nobody heard that our poet was arrested before he was out of
bed this morning?"

"What! Leandro?"

"The Conte Lombardoni?"

"No!"

"You don't mean that?"

"What, arrested for this murder of La Bianca?"

"Impossible!"

"But quite true, nevertheless. Anybody can easily assure themselves of the fact by walking
as far as the Palazzo del Governo."

"Leandro arrested on suspicion of murder? Well, I think the tragedy is passing into a farce."

"It will be fatal to Leandro. He will die of fright, if no other evil happens to him."

"Think of the cantos of verse he will make on it."

"He will die singing, like a swan."

"But do you know anything about it, Faraoni? Have you any idea how he has come to be implicated
in the matter?"

"I learnt at his own lodging that he did not come home to bed the night of the ball, but was
absent from home at the time the murder must have been committed. And then I was told that
the men at the Porta Nuova had declared that they had seen him pass out of the city going in
the direction of the Pineta at a very early hour that morning."

"Per Bacco! it is very strange. What, in the name of all the saints, could he be doing out
there at that time, when all honest folks were in their beds?"

"Remember all the snubbing he has had from the poor Diva all through carnival. By Jove! it
looks very queer."

"Do you remember how he turned all sorts of colours here last night, when we were talking of it?"

"And how anxious he seemed to say everything that appeared to make it bear hard upon Ludovico?"

"Yes, and. contradicted himself. First, he knew about it, and then he knew nothing."

"Per Dio! I don't know what to think of it."

"So, then, there are now three persons suspected--Ludovico; and the Venetian girl, and the
Conte Leandro?"

"And all three were not far from the spot where the deed was done, and all three had motives,
more or less credible, for doing it."

"Ludovico, because his uncle was going to marry the woman, which would have cut him out of
his inheritance; the Venetian girl, because she loved Ludovico, and saw him making love to
the poor Diva; and Leandro, because she snubbed him, and laughed at him, and would have nothing
to say to either him or his verses."

"And the one certain thing is, that the unlucky Diva lies dead, and was murdered by somebody.
Upon my life, it is the queerest thing I ever heard of."

"What do you think of it, Manutoli?" said one of the speakers in the foregoing dialogue to
the Baron, who was an older man than most of the others there.

"My notion is that the girl is the guilty party," said Manutoli. "As for Leandro, it seems
too absurd. I don't think he has courage enough to kill a cat: Besides, I daresay he hated
La Bianca quite enough to slander her, and backbite, and that sort of thing; but murder--"

"She made fun of him. Leandro don't like to be laughed at,-- specially by the women, and, more
specially still, when other fellows are by to hear it and then those poets are always such
desperate fellows I should not wonder--" said one of the young men.

In the meantime, while talk of this sort was going on at the Circolo, Signor Fortini was on
his way out to St. Apollinare in Classe, according to the intention he had expressed on the
preceding evening; but he was not making the expedition alone. Signor Pietro Logarini, the
Papal Commissioner of Police, was bound on the same errand. The old lawyer, as he passed under
the gateway of the Porta Nuova in his comfortable caleche, overtook Signor Logarini, who was
about to proceed to St. Apollinare on foot, and who had paused at the gate for the purpose
of making some inquiries of the officials there.

"Good morning, Signor Pietro. I suppose we are bound for the same place; will you permit me
to offer you a seat in my carriage?" said the lawyer.

"Thanks, Signor Giovacchino, I shall be glad of the lift. Yes, I suppose we are about the same
business, and a bad one it is. I was making a few inquiries at the gate; but I don't see that
there is much to be gleaned there," said the Commissary, as he got into the lawyer's carriage.

"Well, it seems to me that we have reaped a pretty good harvest there already," returned the
lawyer.

"Enough to make the matter one of the most puzzling I ever had to do with," returned the Commissary.
"You have heard, I suppose, that we have arrested the girl Paolina Foscarelli, and the Conte
Leandro Lombardoni?"

"No; but it was a matter of course that you would do so--specially the girl," said the lawyer.

"We could not avoid arresting the Conte also; it is so unaccountable that he should have been
going out of the city, and so near the place of the crime."

"What account does he give of the matter himself?" asked the lawyer.

"No very clear one; and he seems to be frightened out of his senses; but that proves nothing.
One man takes a thing coolly, another is so flushed that you would think he was guilty only
to look at him; but there is little to be judged from such appearances. I don't much think
the Conte had anything to do with it, for my part."

"What were you asking about at the gate?"

"Well, I thought I would just ascertain if any other parties had passed the gate that same
morning," said the Commissary.

"Others! Have we not enough to make a sufficient puzzle already?" said Fortini.

"Yes, indeed; but information is always useful. The men say that they are quite sure that no
other person of any kind whatever passed the gate either outwards or inwards, during the night
till the Conte Leandro passed in the morning; and then the girl not long afterwards; and then
the Marchesino with the prima donna."

The lawyer remained plunged in thought for some minutes, as the carriage rolled over the flat
dismal-looking road towards the old church; and then he said, shaking his head, and pouting
out his lips,--

"I think we shall find, Signor Pietro, that that girl has done it. There's nothing a jealous
woman will not do. We shall find, I think, that to have been the case; that is, if we succeed
in finding out anything at all. Perhaps the most likely thing is that we may never know what
hand did the deed."

"Oh, come, I hope better things than that. That would not suit our book at all. We must find
it out if we can; and it is early days yet to talk of being beat. We are not half at the end
of our means of investigation yet, Signor Giovacchino," said the Commissary.

"It may be that something may be to be picked up at the church here."

"And then I must go on to the farm-house, where the Marchesino and the prima donna left their
carriage."

"We'll have a talk with the friars first."

As Fortini spoke the carriage drew up at the west front of the desolate old basilica. It was
a fine spring morning, and by the time the lawyer and the Commissary reached the church, the
sun had dissipated the mist, and it was warm and pleasant.

The great doors of the church stood yawningly open as usual, and the gate of iron rail was
ajar. And at the south-western corner of the building, just where the sun-ray from the south-west
made a sharp line against the black shadow cast by the western front of the building, an old
Franciscan was sitting; not Father Fabiano, but his sole companion, Friar Simone, the lay-brother.

Neither Signor Fortini nor the police Commissary had ever seen the old guardian of the Basilica;
but they were sufficiently instructed in the details of Franciscan costume to perceive at once
that the figure before them was not a priest, but only a lay-brother.

"Is there any place, frate, where I can put my horse and carriage under shelter for half an
hour or so?" said the lawyer, as the old friar, having risen from his seat in the sunshine,
came forward towards the carriage.

"There is place enough and to spare, Signori," said the old man, pointing with a languid and
wearylike gesture to the huge pile of half-dilapidated conventual buildings on the southern
side of the church; "you can put horse and carriage as they stand into the old barn there,
without undoing a buckle. I will open the door for your lordships, if it will hang together
so that it can be opened."

The lawyer and the Commissary dismounted from the carriage, and the former proceeded to lead
his horse into the huge barn of the convent; while the latter employed himself in observing
every detail of the surrounding localities with those rapid all-seeing and all- remembering
glances that the habits and education of his profession had rendered a part of his nature,
preparatory to the investigations they had both come to make.

CHAPTER XI

In Father Fabiano's Cell

"You can enter the Basilica at your pleasure, Signori; the gate is unlocked," said the lay-brother,
indicating the entrance to the church with a half-formed gesture of his hand, which fell to
his side again when he had half raised it, as if the effort of extending his arm horizontally
had been too much for him. It was a matter of course to him that any human beings who came
to St. Apollinare could have no business there but to see the old walls, which he, the friar,
would have given so much never to see again.

"We will do so presently," said Signor Logarini, in reply; "but, in the first place, we wish
to speak with Father Fabiano--he is the custode of the church, is he not?"

"Father Fabiano is ill a-bed, Signor; I am only out of my bed since yesterday, and it is as
much as I can do to crawl. There's not many days in the year, I think, that we are both well;
and if we should be both down together, God help us. It is not just the healthiest place in
the world, this."

"What is the matter with the padre? Has he been ill long?" asked the lawyer, with a glance
at the Commissary.

"Since yesterday afternoon. Why, I tell you I was in bed yesterday; he down, I must turn out.
Ah--h--h! it 'll all be over one of these days."

"But what ails the custode?" asked Signor Logarini again.

"Fever and ague, I suppose; that is what is always killing both of us more or less. Pity it
is so slow about it!" muttered the lay- brother, returning to his seat in the sunshine.

"But I suppose that Father Fabiano is not so ill but that we can speak with him? It is important
that we should do so," said the Commissary, eyeing the friar with a suspicious glance.

"There is nothing to prevent you or anybody else going to him that choose to do so--nothing
to prevent any one of those cattle doing so, for that matter. There is neither bolt nor latch;
you can go into his chamber, if you are so minded," returned the lay-brother, rather surlily.

"Will you go and tell him that--Signor Fortini from Ravenna wishes to speak with him, and would
be obliged by his permission to come into his room for a few minutes. We don't wish to disturb
him more than is necessary."

"I'll tell him--though you might as well go to him yourselves at once for that matter; it is
weary work going up the stairs so often- -and I can hardly crawl."

And, so saying, the poor old lay-brother tottered off to one of the numerous doorless entrances
of the half-ruined mass of building, and set himself wearily to climb a small stair, the foot
of which was just within it.

The lawyer and the Commissary looked at each other; and the latter said, with a wink at his
companion,--

"I thought it better, you see, to say nothing about the Commissary of Police; it would have
frightened the old fellow out of his wits; and it is always time enough to let him know who
we are if he won't speak without. But I know these animals of friars, Signor Giovacchino, I
know them well; and there isn't a man or woman, townsman or countryman, noble or peasant that
I wouldn't rather have to deal with than a monk or a friar. Let 'em so much as smell the scent
of layman in any position of authority, and it makes 'em as obstinate and contradictious and
contrary as mules, and worse. If this old fellow here has got anything to hide, you'll see
that we shall not be able to get it out of him."

"But I don't see what interest or wish he can have to hide anything from us," said Fortini.

"N--n--no; one don't see that he should have but one can't be too suspicious, mio buono Signor
Giovacchino," said the police authority; "and then, what does he mean by being ill?" he added,
after a little thought; "he was well yesterday. It looks me very much as if he did not want
to be questioned."

"I should not think that he can have much to tell. We shall see whether his account confirms
the story of the girl as to what took place in the church. But the probability is that that
part of her tale is all true enough. The question is what did she do with herself during all
those hours that elapsed between the time she quitted the church and the time when she reached
her home? And I have little hope that the friar should be able to throw any light upon that,"
said the lawyer.

"We shall see; here comes the lay-brother. Ugh! what a life it must be to live in such a place
as this from one year's end to the other; nothing but a frate could stand it," said the Commissary,
looking upon the desolation around him with infinite disgust.

"Father Fabiano is not much fit to speak to anybody; the cold fit of the ague is very strong
upon him. But if you choose to go up to him you can--specially as there is nothing to stop
you. He is in the right-hand cell on the first landing-place up that staircase," said the lay-brother,
feebly pointing to the entrance, from which he had come out.

The lawyer and the police official followed the indications thus given them, and found, as
old Simone had said, that there was neither bolt, lock, nor latch to prevent any creature that
could push a door on its hinges, from entering the little bare-walled room in which the friar
lay beneath a heavy quilted coverlet on a little narrow pallet.

There was not so much as a single chair in the room. The walls were clean, and freshly whitewashed;
and the brick floor was also clean. There were a few pegs of deal in the wall on the side of
the cell opposite to the doorway, on which some garments were hanging; and on the wall facing
the bed there was a large, rudely carved, and yet more rudely painted crucifix. By the side
of the bed nearest the door there hung, on a nail driven into the wall, a copper receptacle
for holy water, the upper part of which was ornamented with a figure of St. Francis in the
act of receiving the "Stigmata," in repousse work, by no means badly executed. And pasted on
the bare wall, immediately above the pillow of the little bed, was a coloured print of the
cheapest and vilest description, representing the Madonna with the seven legendary poignards
sticking in her bosom, and St. Francis, supported on either side by a friar of his order, kneeling
at her feet.

These objects formed absolutely the entire furniture of the cell. There was nothing else whatsoever
in the room; neither the smallest fragment of a looking-glass, nor any means or preparation
for ablution whatsoever.

The old monk lay on his back in the bed, wit his head propped rather highly on a hard straw
bolster; and the extreme attenuation of his body was indicated by the very slight degree in
which the clothes that covered him were raised above the love of the bedstead. On the coverlet
upon his chest, there was a rosary of large beads turned out of box-wood. The parts of each
bead nearest to the string and in contact with each other were black with the undisturbed dirt
and dust of many years. But the protuberant circumference of each wooden ball was polished
to a rich shining orange-colour by the constant handling of the fingers.

It seemed both to Signor Fortini and to the Commissary, that there could be no doubt about
it, that the old man was really ill. He was lying in his frock of thick brown woollen, and
the cowl of it was drawn over his head. He seemed to be suffering from cold, and his teeth
were audibly chattering in his head; and his thin, thin claw- like hands shook as they clutched
his crucifix. His face was lividly pale, and his eyes gleamed out from under the cowl with
a restless feverish brightness.

That he was ill could hardly be doubted. And it seemed to the lawyer and the Commissary as
well as to the old lay-brother, natural enough to suppose that a man who fell ill at St. Apollinare
was ill with fever and ague. But whether that were really the nature of his malady, his visitors
had not sufficient medical knowledge to judge; but it was probable enough that the aged monk
had had quite sufficient experience of fever and ague, to know pretty well himself, whether
he were suffering from that cause or not.

"We are sorry to find you ill, father," said Fortini; "and though we have come from Ravenna
on purpose to speak with you, we would not have disturbed you if our business had not been
important. Are you suffering much now?"

"Not much more than usual," said the sick man, shutting his eyes, while his pallid lips continued
to move, as he muttered to himself an "Ave Maria."

"And can you give us your attention for a few minutes?" rejoined the lawyer.

"I will answer to your asking as far as I can; but my head is confused, and I don't remember
much clearly about anything. It seems to me as if I had been lying on this bed for months and
months," replied the old friar.

"And yet, you know, you were up and well yesterday morning, when you were with the young girl
who came to copy the mosaics, you know, on the scaffolding in the church?" said the lawyer.

"Yes; I was with the girl--Paolina Foscarelli, a Venetian--on the scaffolding. Was it yesterday?"

"Yesterday it was that she was here. Yesterday morning. And it is hardly necessary to ask you
if you know what happened here in the Pineta much about that time, or shortly afterwards. You
have heard of the murder, of course?"

So violent a trembling seized on the aged man as the lawyer spoke thus, that he was unable
to answer a word. His old hands shook so that he could hardly hold the beads in his fingers,
while his chattering teeth and trembling lips tried to formulate the words of a prayer.

"Did you, or did you not hear that a dreadful murder was committed yesterday morning in the
Pineta not far from this place?" said the Commissary, speaking for the first time, and in a
less kindly manner than the old lawyer had used.

A redoubled access of teeth-chattering and shivering was for some time the only result elicited
by this question. The old friar shook in every limb; and the beads of the rosary rattled in
his trembling fingers, as he attempted to pass them on their string in mechanically habitual
accompaniment to the invocations his lips essayed to mutter.

"It is a terrible thing to speak of truly, father; and we are sorry to be obliged to distress
you by forcing such a subject on your thoughts; but it is our duty to make these inquiries;
and you can tell us the few facts--they cannot be many or of much importance-- which have come
to your knowledge on the subject," said the lawyer, speaking in more gentle accents.

"I heard nothing; but I saw," said the aged man, closing his eyes, as if to shut out the vision
which was forced back upon his imagination; and fumbling nervously with his beads, while his
pale blue lips trembled with mutterings of mechanically repeated ejaculations.

"Take your time, padre mio," said the lawyer gently, making a gesture with his raised band,
at the same time, to repress the less patient eagerness of the Commissary of Police; "we do
not want to hurry you. Tell us what it was that you saw."

CHAPTER XII

The Case against Paolina

The old friar opened his haggard eyes, which gleamed out with a feverish light from the bottom
of their sockets, and from under the shadow of his cowl, and looked piteously up into the lawyer's
face. "A little time--a moment to collect my thoughts," he said, passing his parched tongue
over the still dryer parchment-like skin of his drawn lips, and painfully swaying his cowled
head from one side of the hard pillow to the other, while large drops of perspiration gathered
on his brow.

The Commissary shot a meaning glance across the pallet on which the old man lay, to the lawyer,
in evident anticipation of the importance of the revelation, heralded by so much of painful
emotion.

"By all means, padre mio; collect your thoughts. We are sorry for the necessity which obliges
us to force your mind back on such painful ones," said the lawyer, laying his hand on that
of the friar, which was still fumbling with the shining bog-wood beads, scarcely more yellow
than the claw-like fingers which held them. "You saw--?"

Still no reply came from the old friar's lips. He writhed his body in the bed, and the manifestation
of his agony became more and more intense. The eager impatient air of the Commissary changed
itself into one of persistent dogged determination; and he quietly drew from his pocket a note-book
and the means of writing in it.

"Now, father, you will be able to tell us what you saw?" said the lawyer in a soothing coaxing
voice.

"I saw," said the old friar at length, speaking with his eyes again closed--"I saw the dead
body of the woman who had passed the church towards the Pineta in the morning, brought back
by six men from the forest. They passed by the western front of the church, and I saw that
the body was the body of the woman I speak of."

The Commissary shut up his note-book with a gesture of provoked disappointment, and shrugged
his shoulders impatiently.

"If that is all you have to tell us, frate, you need not have made so much difficulty about
it," he said; "we knew all that before, and need not have come here to be told it. Plenty of
people saw the bringing in from the forest of the body of the murdered woman, and would give
evidence to the fact without making so much ado about it. Is that all you saw?"

"Did you not see," said the lawyer, again motioning his companion to be patient; "did you not
see another young woman in the forest yesterday morning?"

"Not in the forest," replied the friar without any difficulty. "Not in the forest; I saw another
young woman here yesterday, but it was in the church. She came here to make copies of some
of the mosaics. I had been previously told to expect such an one."

"Did she come to the church before the time when you saw the other lady pass towards the forest?"
asked the lawyer.

"Yes; about half an hour or more before," answered the friar.

"And where was she when the second lady passed, going towards the Pineta?" asked the lawyer again.

"She was on the scaffolding in the church, which had been prepared for her to make her copies
of the mosaics."

"Do you know whether she saw, or was aware that the second lady had passed the church to go
towards the Pineta?"

"I know that she was aware of it; I was with her on the scaffolding. We both together saw the
woman who was afterwards brought back dead pass in a bagarino with the Marchese Ludovico di
Castelmare, towards the Pineta."

The lawyer looked hard at the Commissary; and the latter in obedience, as it seemed, to the
look, took out his note-book again, and made a note of the declaration.

"And what did the young lady who came to copy the mosaics do afterwards? Where did you part
with her?" resumed the lawyer.

"She left the church, and walked in the direction of the forest. I parted from her at the door
of the church."

"And did you see her any more in the course of that morning?" asked the lawyer again.

"I did not: I saw her no more from that time to this," replied the friar. During the whole
of this interrogation, he had appeared far less distressed and disturbed than he had been before
speaking of his having seen the body of La Bianca carried past the church towards the city.
He had answered all the questions concerning Paolina readily and without hesitation.

"I don't think we need trouble you any further, frate," said the Commissary. "I hope that you
will soon get over your touch of fever; and then, if we need you, there will be no difficulty
in your attending, when wanted, in the city. I don't see, that there is anything more to be
got at present," he added, addressing the lawyer.

So the two visitors bade the friar adieu, and went down the stairs on to the open piazza in
front of the church.

"Does that fellow know anything more than he tells us?" said the Commissary, as they stepped
out of the narrow entry on to the green sward of the piazza.

"I fancy not; I don't see much what he is at all likely to know," replied the lawyer.

"Nor I; but his manner was so remarkable. One would have said that he was conscious of having
committed the murder himself. In all my experience I never saw a man so hard put to it to tell
a plain and simple fact."

"Well, the poor old fellow is ill, you see. And then, no doubt, the sight of the body brought
back out of the forest made a terrible impression on him. The extreme seclusion, tranquillity,
and monotony of his life here, the absence from year's end to year's end of any sort of emotion
of any kind, would naturally have the result of increasing the painful effect which such an
event and such a sight would have upon him. My own notion is that there is nothing further
to be got out of him."

"There is our friend the lay-brother sitting in the sunshine just where we left him. We might
as well just see what he can tell us before going back to the city."

"He seems very ill, the padre," pursued the Commissary, addressing himself to brother Simone,
as he and the lawyer lounged up to the spot where he was sitting; "the fever must have laid
hold of him very suddenly; for it seems he was well enough yesterday morning."

"That is the way with the maledetto morbo," returned the lay- brother; "one hour you are well--as
well, that is to say, as one can ever be in such a place as this--and the next you are down
on your back shivering and burning like--like the poor souls in purgatory. Doubtless the more
of it one has had, the less there is to come. That's the only comfort."

"The padre's mind seems to have been very painfully affected by the sight of the body of the
woman, who was murdered in the forest, as it was being carried back to the city. Did you see
it too?" asked the lawyer, observing the friar narrowly, as he spoke.

"Si, Signor, I saw it too, and a piteous sight it was. Father Fabiano and I were both out here
on the piazza when the body was carried past. For I was just coming from the belfry yonder,
where I had been to ring Compline; and the padre was at the same time coming out of the church,
where he had been as usual with him at that hour, at his devotions before the altar of the Saint."

"Then at the hour of Compline the father had not yet been taken ill?" observed the Commissary.
"Scusi, Signor; I think he had been struck by the fever at that time. He fell a-shivering and
a-shaking so that he could hardly stand, when the body was carried past. But that is the way
the mischief always begins. Ah, there's never a doctor knows it better than I do, and no wonder."

"You don't think then," said the lawyer, "that it was the sight of the dead body that moved
him so?"

"Why should it?" said the lay-brother, in the true spirit of monastic philosophy; "why should
it? all flesh is grass; there is nothing so strange in death. He sighed and groaned a deal,
but that is often Father Fabiano's way when he comes out from his exercises in the church.
He seemed as if he could hardly stand on his legs: but, bless you, that was the fever. He took
to his bed as soon as ever the men carrying the body were out of sight. He's an old man is
Father Fabiano."

"Where had he been all the time between the time when the painter lady left the church, and
the hour of Compline?" asked the Commissary, who had been busily thinking during the lay-brother's
moralizings.

"Ever since a little after the Angelus he had been on his knees at the altar of St. Apollinare,
according to his custom. He told me so, when he came to give me my potion; for I was down with
the fever yesterday morning."

"Do you know where he was before the Angelus?" returned the Commissary.

"He had to ring the Angelus himself, seeing that I was down with the fever. And be came back
to the convent in a hurry, fearing that he was too late. There's very little doubt that it
was heating himself that way that made the fever take hold of him."

"Where was he hurrying back from, then? Where had he been?" asked the Commissary, endeavouring
to hide his eagerness for the reply to this question under a semblance of carelessness.

"He told me, when he carne to my cell, that he had been into the forest; and it was plain to
see that the walk had been too much for him; he's too old for moving much now, is Father Fabiano."

"He had been into the forest; and when he came back at the hour of the Angelus, he seemed quite
overcome by his walk?" said the Commissary, recapitulating, and taking out his note-book as
he spoke.

"Yes, he did; so much so, that as I lay on my bed and listened to the Angelus bell a-going,
I thought to myself that the old man had hardly the strength to pull the rope," said the lay-brother.

"Hardly strength to pull the rope," repeated the Commissary, as he completed the note he was
scribbling in his note-book. "Well, I hope he will soon get over his attack of fever. I think
we need not trouble you any further at present, frate--what is your name, my friend?"

"Simone, by the mercy of God, lay-brother of the terz' ordine--"

"That will do, frate Simone," interrupted the Commissary, adding a word to the entry in his
note-book. "Now, Signor Giovacchino, if you are ready, I think we may get your carriage out
of the barn and go back to Ravenna."

"We have not got much for our pains, I am afraid," said the lawyer to the Commissary of police
as they began to leave the Basilica behind them on their way back to the city.

"Humph!" said the Commissary, who was apparently too much absorbed in his own meditations to
be in a mood for conversation.

"Signor Giovacchino," he said, suddenly, after they had traversed nearly half their short journey
in silence, "my belief is that your young friend the Marchese has no hand in this matter."

"I am convinced he had not," said the lawyer, who was, however, very far from having reached
any conviction of the kind; "but what we want is some such probable theory on the subject as
shall compete successfully with the theory of his guilt in the matter."

"That theory--shall I give it you? It is not only a theory; it is my firm belief as to the
facts of the case."

"You suspect--"

"I more than suspect--I am very strongly persuaded that this murder has been committed by the
girl Paolina Foscarelli."

"My own notion--"

"Look here, this is how it has been. The Marchese Ludovico has made love to this girl--has
made her in love with him--taking the matter au grand serieux, in the way girls will--specially,
I am told, it is the way, with those Venetian women. Well, by ill chance, as the devil would
have it, she sees her lover starting on a tete-a-tete expedition into the Pineta with this
other girl--just the woman of all others in the world, as I am given to understand, to be a
dangerous rival, and to excite a deadly jealousy. This much we have in evidence. Further, we
know that the girl Paolina was expected to return from her expedition to St. Apollinare early
in the morning-- say at nine o'clock, or thereabouts--whereas she did not return till several
hours afterwards. In addition to all this, we have now ascertained that when she left the church
she did not set out on her return towards the city, as she might naturally be expected to have
done; but, on the contrary, went in the direction of the Pineta. Then, assuming the story,
told by the Marchese to be true, we know that, about the very time that this Paolina was entering
the forest, her rival was lying asleep and alone there in the immediate neighbourhood. We know
that the means adopted for the perpetration of the crime were such as to be quite within a
woman's physical power, and that the weapon used for the purpose such as a woman may much more
readily be supposed to have about her than a man; what do you say to that as a theory of the
facts? Is not the evidence overpoweringly strong against this Venetian?"

"Of course my own attention had been called to the case of suspicion against her. But I confess
I had not been struck by the last circumstance you mention; and it seems to me a very strong
one. How can it be supposed that a man--a man like the Marchese Ludovico-- should chance to
have a needle about him? The case of suspicion against him, mark, altogether excludes the notion
that he went out prepared to take the life of this unfortunate woman. It is suggested that
he put her to death in order to escape from the ruin that would have ensued from his uncle's
marriage with her. No other possible motive for such a deed can be conceived. But he knew nothing
of any such purpose on the part of the Marchese till the girl herself told him of it as they
were driving together to the forest. Therefore, he had not come out prepared with a needle
for the purpose of committing murder. Neither, it is true, does the theory we are considering
suppose that Paolina came out prepared to do such a deed. But the weapon used is a needle.
Is it more likely that a man or that a woman should have by chance such an article about them?
I confess it seems to me that this circumstance alone is sufficient to turn the scale of the
probabilities unmistakably."

"But that is not all," said the Commissary, laying his finger impressively on the lawyer's
sleeve; "my belief is that that old friar, padre Fabiano, is aware of the fact that the murder
was committed by Paolina Foscarelli. I am not disposed to think that he had any hand in the
doing of the deed; but I think the he has a knowledge of her guilt. He is ill now, doubtless;
but I do not believe that he is suffering from fever and ague. He is suffering from the emotions
of horror and terror. We know that he was in the Pineta much about the time at which the murder
must have been committed, and very near the spot where it must have been committed. And he
comes back in a state of terrible emotion and consternation. His manner in speaking to us to-day
you must have observed. I have no belief in an old friar being so terribly impressed by the
mere sight of a dead body."

"That is all true," said the lawyer, nodding his head up and down several times; "and the circumstances
do seem to point to the probability of your conclusion; but--"

"But why, you will say, should the old man, if he has a merely innocent knowledge of that which
I suspect him to know, refuse to tell the whole truth simply as he knows it? I will tell you
why not. In the first place, if you had had as much experience of monks, and friars, and nuns,
as I have, you would know that it is next to impossible to induce them ever to give information
to justice of any facts which it is possible for them to conceal. It seems to them, I fancy,
like recognizing a lay authority in a manner they don't like. They will communicate nothing
to you if they can help it."

"Yes, that's true. I know that is the nature of them," assented the lawyer.

"Then, observe, this Father Fabiano is a Venetian, a fellow-citizen of the girl. You know how
the Venetians hold together. You may feel quite sure that if he did know her to be guilty of
a crime, he would screen her to the utmost of his power. Of course I have not done with him
yet. Tutt' altro. We must have an account of that morning stroll in the Pineta from the old
gentleman's own lips. Meantime, I do not think that we need consider our trip to-day to have
been altogether thrown away."

"Very far from it. Very far from it, indeed. Honestly, I think that you have hit the nail on
the head, Signor Pietro. There is nothing like the practical experience of you gentlemen of
the police, who pass your lives in playing at who-is-the-sharpest with the most astute of human
beings."

"And beating them at their own game," said the Commissary, self- complacently. "If that murder
was not committed by Paolina Foscarelli, I will give you or anybody else leave to call me a
blockhead."

And therewith Signor Fortini and his companion drove under the old archway of the Porta Nuova
and entered the city. The excitement on the subject, indeed, was greater now than it had been
immediately after the event. For, by this time, everybody in Ravenna knew all that anybody
knew on the subject; the manner, time, and place of the murder, and the different competing
theories which had been started to account for it, and with the conflicting probabilities of
which the judicial authorities were known to be occupying themselves.

These, as the reader knows, were three; based, in each case, on the fact that the suspected
person was known, or was supposed to be known, to have been at, or near, to the spot where
the crime was committed at the time when it had been committed.

The Marchese Ludovico was indisputably known; on his own confession, to have been in the immediate
neighbourhood of the spot at the time when the murder must have been done.

Paolina Foscarelli was equally indubitably, and by her own confession, not far off from the
neighbourhood of the spot at the same time.

Of the Conte Leandro Lombardoni it was known only that he had passed out of the city gate leading
in the same direction, at a time which might have enabled him to be present where the deed
was done, at the hour when it must have been done. The evidence as to propinquity to the place
was less strong in his case than in that of either of the others; but it was supplemented by
the unaccountable strangeness of his passing out of the Porta Nuova towards the Pineta at such
an hour, and on that particular morning.

The Marchese Ludovico stated that he went thither for the purpose of showing the Pineta to
the prima donna, who had never seen it. And there was nothing incredible or greatly improbable
in the statement.

Paolina declared that she had gone to St. Apollinare in pursuit of her professional business.
And the declaration was not only very probable in itself, but could be shown by evidence to
be true. Only, while it accounted for her presence in the church of St. Apollinare, it left
her departure from the church with her face turned, not towards the city, but towards the Pineta,
unaccounted for.

In the case of the Conte Leandro, it was difficult to imagine the motive that could have induced
him to leave the city at that hour, in the manner in which he was proved, by the testimony
of the men at the gate, to have done. And he gave no assistance himself towards arriving at
any satisfactory explanation of so strange a circumstance. He was unable, or unwilling, to
account in any way for his conduct on that Ash Wednesday morning.

"He had thought it pleasanter to take a walk that fine morning, than to go to bed after the ball."

Nothing could be more unlike the usual known habits and tastes of the Conte Leandro, than such
a freak. But supposing such a whim to have occurred to him, would he have set out on his walk
evidently intending to be disguised--with a cloak wrapped round the fantastic costume in which
he had been at the ball? Was such a supposition in any wise credible, or admissible?

In each of the three cases there seemed also to be a motive for the deed that might be deemed
sufficient to have led to it; and from which neither of the parties suspected could show that
they were free.

In the case of the Marchese Ludovico, it was the terrible temptation of delivering his family
name from ridicule and disgrace, and himself from the prospect of absolute beggary.

In the case of Paolina, it was the madness of woman's jealousy, wrought to a pitch of desperation
by circumstances similar to such as had ere now produced many a similar tragedy.

In the case of the Conte Leandro, it was the cruel mortification of a man whose monstrous vanity
was notorious to the whole city.

These were the three hypotheses between which the possibilities of the case seemed to lie to
those whose position or means of information gave them any real knowledge of the facts. But
there was a section of the outside public which had set up for itself and preferred yet a fourth
theory--namely, that the prima donna had committed suicide. The holders of this opinion were
mainly women; and at the head of them; was the Signora Orsola Steno. In an agony of grief,
indignation, and despair at the accusation brought against her adopted child, and the arrest
by which it had been followed up, she loudly maintained her own conviction that the evil and
wicked woman had brought her career to a fitting close by putting herself to death.

"Likely enough she may have endeavoured to entrap the Marchese Lamberto; but not very likely,"
old Orsola thought, "that that exemplary nobleman should have been caught by her wiles. Likely
enough she may have plotted to play her last card, by giving the Marchese Ludovico to understand,
that the only way to avoid the ruin which would fall upon him by her becoming his uncle's wife,
was to take her himself. How any such overtures would be received by the noble Marchese Ludovico,
all Ravenna ought to know; and at all events she, Orsola Steno, knew surely enough. And upon
that rebuff, and utter failure of her last hope despair had come upon the wretched creature,
as well it might, and she had put an end to herself."

To her, Orsola Steno, the case was clear: and she only wondered that anybody could be so blind
as not to see it.

But what if such a supposition were simply inconsistent with the known facts? What if it were
simply impossible that any person should inflict on themselves such an injury as that which
it was evident the murdered woman had sustained; and more impossible still that they should
have been able to adopt the means for concealing the wound which the assassin had adopted?
What if such was the perfectly unhesitating judgment and declaration of the medical authorities?
Such people as Orsola Steno, and those who shared her opinion, are ordinarily impervious to
any such reasoning. It is remarkable that, in any case of doubt or circumstances of suspicion,
the popular mind--or, at all events, the Italian popular mind--is specially disposed to mistrust
the medical profession. They suspect error exactly where scientific certainty is the most perfect,
and deception precisely in those who have the least possible imaginable motive for deceiving.
Probably it may be because the grounds and means of the knowledge they mistrust are more wholly,
than in any other case, beyond the sphere of their own conceptions.

When old Orsola Steno was told that the doctors declared that it was not within the bounds
of possibility that La Bianca should have put herself to death in the manner in which she had
been put to death, nothing could exceed the profundity of the contempt with which she sneered
in reply:

"Ah! they'll say anything to make out that they know more than other folks, and, maybe, they
often know a deal less. Don't tell me. How should they know what a woman will do when she is
driven? I know what women are, and I know what them doctors are; and you may believe that an
old woman, who has been a young one, knows more what such an one as that Bianca can do, when
she has no hope before her, than all the doctors."

"But it is impossible--physically impossible that she could have done it."

"Ta, ta, ta, ta! Physic, indeed; what's physic got to do with it? I should like to physic them
that try to throw suspicion on a poor innocent girl all to make out their own cleverness."

So Signora Orsola victoriously, and to the great increase of her confidence in her own powers
of insight, continued to hold her own opinion, and it was shared by many other similarly-constituted
minds.

The old Venetian woman had lived a very, quiet life in the strange city to which fate had brought
her, making but few acquaintances, and holding but little intercourse with those few; but now,
under the terrible misfortune which had happened, she was stirred up to activity in every way
in which activity was possible to her. She went to the Palazzo Castelmare and endeavoured to
see the Marchese Lamberto in vain. She was told that the Marchese was ill, and could not see
any one.

She went to the Contessa Violante, of whose acquaintanceship with Paolina she was aware, though
she had never before seen her, and, oddly enough, the Contessa Violante was disposed to share,
or to become a convert to, her own opinion respecting the mode of Bianca's death. The young
Contessa was, doubtless as ignorant of all such matters as old Orsola could be. Her education
had been entirely conventual, and those who dwell in the inner sanctums and fortresses of the
Church have a curiously instinctive aversion to the certainties and investigations of medical--especially
of surgical-- science; and the Contessa Violante was, perhaps, hence prepared to vilipend and
set at naught the dicta of the scientific authorities.

It was likely that her mind was also warped by the conceptions of what were probable, likely
to be providential, and even suitable, in the case of such a person as the deceased singer.
Of course, the whole life of such an one was, to the Contessa Violante, a thing abominable
and accursed in the eyes of Heaven. It was more strange that all others, who led similar lives,
and were engaged in such a profession, should not make an evil end of themselves than that
one such should do so.

The Contessa Violante, therefore, was disposed to share the conviction of her visitor, as she
most sincerely and cordially sympathised with her in her affliction. To her, also, it was wholly
impossible to believe that Paolina had done this thing; nor was it credible to her that Ludovico
should be guilty of such a deed. Of the three persons accused she would have found it more
possible to believe in the guilt of the Conte Leandro; but, on the whole, she preferred to
avoid the necessity of assuming that either of the accused were guilty by admitting the hypothesis
of Signora Orsola.

"And if you will take my advice, Signora, I think that the best thing you could do would be
to go to Signor Fortini, the lawyer, who is interested in the matter on account of being the
lawyer of the Castelmare family. I have always heard him spoken of as an upright and respectable
man. I have heard my uncle speak well of him. If I were you I would go and talk to him; you
will very easily find out where his studio is. Go and tell him who you are, and what your interest
in the matter is, and I have no doubt but that he will receive you kindly and listen to what
you have to say."

And Signora Orsola took the Contessa Violante's advice, and went directly to the lawyer's studio
in the little cloister under the walls of the cathedral, on leaving her adviser. As Violante
had said, she had no difficulty whatever in finding it.

The lawyer was at home, and Signora Orsola was at once ushered into the inner studio, which
has been described in a former chapter.

Signor Fortini was, to all appearances, entirely unoccupied; but it is probable that his mind
was fully employed in striving to see his way through some portion of the difficulties that
hedged about on all sides the subject on which, more or less, all Ravenna was intent. He was
sitting before his table, thickly covered with papers; but had thrown himself back in his leather-covered
arm- chair, and was grasping his stubbly chin with one hand, the elbow belonging to which rested
on the arm of his chair, while the dark eyes, shining out beneath his contracted forehead,
were fixed on the ceiling of the little room.

"Signora Orsola Steno," he said, as he half rose, and courteously offered his visitor a seat
by the side of the table, so placed as to be fronting his own, while the sitter in it was exactly
in a line between him and the window.

"Sua Signoria mi conosce. Your lordship knows me, then," said the old woman, whose surprise
at finding herself thus recognized sufficed to put altogether out of her head all the carefully
arranged opening of her interview with the lawyer which she had taken much pains to prepare.

Signor Fortini had, in truth, never seen the old woman, and had scarcely ever heard of her
before the terrible event, which was now bringing her into his presence. But her name, the
nature of her connection with Paolina, and very many other particulars concerning her had become
known to the lawyer in the course of the investigations which that event had imposed upon him.

"Sufficiently, Signora, though I never had the pleasure of speaking to you before, to be aware
of the nature of the business which has induced you to favour me with this visit," replied
the lawyer, with grave courtesy.

"Well, then, Signor Dottore, I hope you will excuse--"

"There is not the smallest need for any apology, Signora. Anzi--I am very glad that you should
have thought it well to call on me; I shall be most happy to hear anything that you may wish
to say to me."

"You are very polite, Signor Dottore, I am sure," said the old woman, hesitatingly; for she
was alarmed at the idea, which the lawyer's courtesy had suggested to her cautious mind, that
she might be supposed to be engaging his professional services, and might thus find herself,
before she was aware of it, involved in expenses which she had no means of meeting, and no
intention of incurring; "you are extremely polite, but--you see, Signor, it is best to speak
plainly- -I am a very poor woman; and I have not the means--and I am sure-- perhaps I ought
not to have troubled sua Signoria; but it was the Contessa Violante who advised me to come to you."

"Indeed; I am beholden to the Signora Contessa Violante. As you say most judiciously, Signora,
it is best to speak quite plainly. With regard to any professional services, which it might
be otherwise in my power to render you, it is necessary to say at once that I am engaged in
this most unhappy business on the behalf of my old client and friend the Marchese Ludovico
di Castelmare. There can be no question, therefore, of any professional remuneration to me
in the matter from any other quarter. Anything that may pass between us," he continued, perceiving
that his visitor had not fully comprehended what he sought to convey to her, "must be of the
nature of private conversation, and will not entail on you," he added, yet more plainly with
a good-humoured smile, and putting his hand on her sleeve as he spoke, "any possible expense
whatever."

"Thank you kindly, sir; and, truth to say, it is not so much that I wanted to ask you to say
or to do anything, as only just not to say what a many people in this city are wicked enough
to say and to think," said old Orsola, much re-assured, and persuaded that she was approaching
the business in band in the most cautious and clever manner imaginable.

"I hope, Signora, that I shall not say anything which it is wicked to say; but what is it that
people are wicked enough to say?" rejoined the lawyer, who knew now perfectly well what the
wicked saying was.

"Why they say, Signor Dottore--some of them--some of them are wicked enough to say that that
dear blessed child has--it is enough to blister one's tongue to say it--has done that dreadful
thing; Santa Maria abbia misericordia--that murder in the forest. O Dio mio! Why--"

"Is she any relative of yours, Signora, the Signorina Paolina Foscarelli?" asked the lawyer,
quietly.

"No relative by blood, Signor; but she is the same to me as a daughter. I took her when she
was left an orphan--"

"And she has lived with you ever since?"

"Ever since she has lived with me as if she was my own, Signor; and if anybody in the world
ever knew another, I know her; and, bless your heart, she isn't capable of lifting her hand
against a fly, let alone a Christian. There never was such wicked nonsense talked in this world
since world it was; and I'm told, Signor Dottore, that you have said that she had been the
one as did this deed; and--"

"Stop, stop, my good Signora Orsola! Are you aware that you are accusing me of being guilty
of punishable defamation and slander? I say that the Signorina Paolina Foscarelli committed
murder? Who on earth could ever have told you so monstrous an untruth? Allow me to assure you
that I never said anything of the kind."

"Oh, Signor Dottore, I am so glad to hear you say so. What lies people do tell, to be sure;
I am sure it was a very good thought of the Contessa Violante to tell me to come to you; and
since you say that the poor child is innocent, as innocent she is, as the child unborn--"

"Stay, Signora, stay; you go too fast--somewhat too fast. Unhappily, I am by no means in a
condition to say that your young friend is innocent of this crime; appearances, it must be
admitted, are very much against her; we must hope that they can be explained. I accuse no one;
it is not my province to do so."

"But you don't think the judges will believe that my child could have done such a thing? If
they only knew her! You don't think that, do you, Signor Dottore?" said the poor woman, with
a voice and manner of piteous appeal.

"They will judge according to the evidence and the probabilities of the case. It is impossible
to say as yet to what conclusion these may seem to point. The Marchese Ludovico is an acquaintance
of yours and of the Signorina Paolina, is he not?"

"An acquaintance? why they are engaged to be married," almost shrieked poor Signora Orsola;
"has not your lordship heard that they are engaged to be married?"

"Indeed! and you are acquainted with the Contessa Violante too. Do you know whether her ladyship
is aware of the engagement you speak of? I ask, because she is an old friend of the Marchese
Ludovico."

"To be sure she is aware of it. She and Paolina have often talked it over together. Altro che,
aware of it."

"Humph," said the lawyer thoughtfully; and then remained silent for a minute or two, while
old Orsola looked at him wistfully.

"It must be very terrible to you then, Signora, to think that the Marchese should be suspected
of this shocking crime, since you have such reason to feel an interest in him," said he at
last, looking up suddenly at his companion.

"Lord bless your heart," exclaimed the old woman in reply; "the Marchese never did nothing
of the sort, no more than my poor innocent lamb did it. Nothing of the kind."

"Perhaps, then, you would not mind saying who did do it," said the lawyer; "since you seem
to know all about it."

"Why she did it herself to be sure. It is a wonder anybody should doubt it. And a like enough
end for such a baggage to come to," said Signora Orsola, with much bitterness.

"You do not seem to have been among the admirers of the Signora Bianca," said the lawyer, with
a furtively shrewd look at the old woman.

"Admirers, indeed! She had too many admirers, I am thinking. A good- for-nothing, impudent,
brazen--well, she has gone to her account, so I won't be the one to speak ill of her."

"You seem to have had considerable opportunities of becoming acquainted with her character,
Signora Orsola. Had you much acquaintance with her?"

"I never saw her but once in my life, and that was at the theatre on the last Sunday night
of Carnival. The Marchese had given us a box."

"And it was upon that occasion then, that she impressed you so unfavourably. The Signorina
Paolina I suppose was with you at the theatre?"

"Of course she was. Would it be likely, I ask you, Signor Dottore, that the Marchese took the
box for me?"

"And no doubt the Signorina Foscarelli was impressed by the actress in the same manner that
you yourself were."

"Of course she was, as any other decent young woman would have been; let alone being, as Paolina
is, engaged to be married to the Marchese."

"I have no doubt, Signora, that your remarks are perfectly just. If the manners and conduct
of the young women now-a-days were regulated a little more in conformity with the ideas of
such persons of discretion as yourself, the world would be all the better for it. But I don't
quite see how the behaviour of the prima donna on the stage could have had anything to do with
the circumstance of the Marchese Ludovico's engagement to the Signorina Foscarelli," said the
lawyer, with the most demure innocence of manner.

"You don't see it, Signor Dottore. Perhaps you were not in the theatre that night. If you had
been you would have seen it fast enough. The way she went on, when the Marchese Ludovico was
a-giving her a lovely nosegay of flowers--hothouse flowers, if you please--as big pretty near
as this table; not just a-throwing them on to the stage the way I've seen 'em do it many a
time at the Fenice; but putting them into her hand; and she, the minx a coming up to the box
to take 'em before all the people as bold as brass."

"Ah, I see? The Signorina Foscarelli naturally did not quite like that," said the lawyer, encouragingly.

"Like it! Who would have liked it in her place, I ask you? And that painted hussy a-going on
they way she did; making such eyes at him, and smiling and a-pressing her hand to her bosom,
that was just as naked as my face; and looking for all the world if she could have jumped right
into the box, and eaten him up. Like it, indeed!"

"No doubt it was provoking enough. And your adopted daughter, Signora Steno, would not be the
right-minded and well-brought-up girl I take her to be, if she did not express to you her disgust
at such goings on," said the sympathizing lawyer.

"You may say that. She expressed it plain enough and not to me only, but to the Marchese himself
well, when she saw him afterwards. She let him know what she thought of the painted huzzy.
And she told him, too, some more of the truth. She told him that the creature knew well enough
what she was doing, or trying to do. The way she looked straight up at my poor child in the
box, where we were, was enough to make the blood curdle in your veins. If ever I saw a face
look hatred, it was the face of that woman when she looked up at our box. She looked at the
poor child as if she could have taken her heart's blood. She did. Ah! bless your heart, she
knew all about it. Talk of the old Marchese, indeed. Yes; the creature had set her mind upon
being Marchesa di Castelmare. Not a doubt of it; but it was the nephew she wanted, not the
uncle; and she knew that my Paolina stood in the way of her scheming; and Paolina knew that
she knew it."

Old Orsola paused, out of breath with the length and vehemence of the tirade, which her feelings
had prompted her to utter with crescendo violence. She was verbose; but the lawyer had listened
with the most perfect patience and unflagging attention to every word she had uttered.

"It is, indeed, clear enough," he said, shaking his head, "that between two women so situated
with reference to each other, there could have been no very kindly feeling. And it must be
confessed that this unfortunate Bianca Lalli was, by all accounts, just the sort of woman that
was likely to be a very dangerous rival."

"She; a common, impudent, low-lived, brazen-faced, worn-out Jezebel. No; not where my Paolina
stood on the other side. She couldn't take the Marchese away from her with all her arts. And
that's why she went and put an end to herself. But she's gone--she's gone, where her painted
face and her lures won't be of any more service to her. And so I won't say any evil of her.
Not I. It's a good rule that tells us to speak well of the dead. Ave, Maria gratia plena, ora
pro nobis, nunc et in hora mortis nostrae," said the old woman, crossing herself and casting
up her eyes in attestation of the Christian nature of her sentiments.

"Amen!" said the lawyer, piously, while he waited to see if the exuberance of his visitor's
feelings would lead her to throw any further light on the state of feeling that had existed
between Paolina Foscarelli and the murdered woman.

"I always say and think, for my part," continued the old woman, perceiving that her companion
sat silent, as if expecting her to continue the conversation; "I always think that the blessed
Virgin knows what's best for us. Maybe it's just as well that that poor miserable creature
did as she did. For we all know what men are, Signore Dottore; and there's no saying what hold
she might have got upon the Marchese."

"And no doubt that is the feeling of our young friend Signorina Foscarelli?" said the sympathetic
lawyer.

"To be sure,--to be sure it is," said the old woman, meaning to credit Paolina with the piety
she had understood herself to have expressed; "she did take a mortal aversion and dislike to
the woman, and small blame to her. But now she is gone, Paolina is no more likely to say anything
against her than I am myself."

"Quite so, quite so. And I hope the magistrates may take the same view of the circumstances,
that you have so judiciously expressed, Signora," said the lawyer, who was abundantly contented
with the result of his interview with the Signora Steno, as it stood, and did not see any further
necessity for prolonging it. "You may tell the Contessa Violante, if you should see her, that
I am much obliged to her for having sent you to me," he added, as he rose to open the door
of his sanctum for the old lady; "Beppo, open the door for the Signora Steno. Farewell, Signora,
we shall meet again."

CHAPTER II

Was it Paolina after all?

Orsola Steno quitted the lawyer's studio as entirely contented with the result of her interview
as she left him. She doubted not that she had fully impressed him with her own conviction as
to the explanation of the mysterious circumstances of the singer's death; that Paolina's innocence
would be readily recognized; and that her adopted daughter would shortly be restored to her
in the Via di Sta. Eufemia.

The lawyer remained for some time seated in his chair in deep thought after his visitor had
left him.

Suddenly he let his open hand fall heavily with a loud clap on the table before him, disturbing
the papers on it from their places, and causing the fine blue sand, which stood in an open
wooden basin for the purpose of doing the office of blotting-paper, to be spilled in all directions
by the concussion, and said aloud, "By God! That girl has done it!"

"Ah, talk of the passions of men," he went on, in a lower muttering voice, after some further
moments of meditation; "they are nothing-- they are child's play compared to the blind animal-like
impulses that force a woman's will into their service when any of the master passions of the
sex are touched. A woman's jealousy; it is as plain as the sun at noonday. And we are puzzling
our brains looking on this side and on that, to find a possible explanation of the facts. Talk
of a tigress and her whelps! There's a young girl who looks as innocent as a St. Agnes, and
speaks as if butter would not melt in her mouth. Take--threaten to take--her lover from her,
and she turns upon you like a scorpion at bay. Furens quid foemina possit. Ay indeed. And they
are all alike. That old woman there; why she was ready, with all her 'Ave Marias' and 'Ora
pro nobis,' to kill the woman again if she were not killed already, out of pure sympathy with
the wrong done to her adopted daughter. I don't think there is a doubt about it. I should like
to wager a hundred to one that the Venetian girl put her rival to death. The story is neither
a new nor a strange one."

"Whether the commission of the deed can be brought home to her," he continued, after another
period of musing, "that is another question; and one with which, however interesting it may
be to my good friend Pietro Logarini, we need not trouble ourselves. And after all, what a
good thing it is that things should have fallen out as they have. That old fool of a Marchese!
It is a lesson to believe in nothing and no man, when one thinks of it. The death of that woman
is the saving of the name. But, per Bacco! I must not say so too loudly," thought the old lawyer
to himself, with a grim smile, "or I shall be doing just what the old fool of a woman has been
doing. Yes, that was the last link in the chain of the evidence we wanted. She was on the spot
at the time--the death-dealing weapon was essentially a woman's weapon, and the murdered woman
was her feared and hated rival--and now we have direct evidence that she felt her to be such.
If the judges can find any other hypothesis supported by stronger circumstantial evidence than
this--why, I think that I had better go to school again."

With these thoughts in his mind, Signor Fortini determined to go and see his crony, Signor
Pietro Logarini, at the Palazzo del Governo. He found that active and able official just returned
from another visit to St. Apollinare in Classe, which appeared not to have been very fruitful
of result.

"I can make nothing out of that old friar," said the Police Commissary to his friend, as they
sat in the private cabinet of the former; "and I am very much afraid that we shall make nothing
out of him. For quiet, aggravating obstinacy and passive resistance, recommend me to a monk."

"What induced you to go out there to-day?" asked the lawyer.

"Why, I am very strongly persuaded--I feel sure almost--that that old fellow could tell something
to the purpose if he would speak. And I am more convinced of it from his manner to-day than
ever. The other animal--the lay-brother--I am pretty sure knows nothing about it."

"Is the friar about again, or still in bed?" Fortini.

"Oh, he's in bed safe enough; at least I found him there, shivering and shaking, and counting
his beads, and answering a plain question with `Ave Maria' and 'Ora pro nobis,' and the rest
of it. I don't believe he has the fever a bit. I believe that he has been scared out of his
wits by something he has seen. But the devil wouldn't get out of him what it was if he don't
choose to tell you. Oh, I know them!" said the Commissary, provoked by his fruitless excursion.

"I suppose," said the lawyer, looking doubtfully into the Commissary's face, "I suppose it
is not on the cards that the old fellow was the murderer himself?"

"Ha!" said the Commissary, with a start, "that is a new idea. But no," he added, after a little
consideration,--"no, that's not it; it would be very difficult even to imagine any motive.
An old man, eighty years old. No, it's not that. But, if I am not very much mistaken, he knows
something."

"In that case, I should have thought that means might have been found to make him speak," said
the lawyer, drily.

"What means? I profess I don't know any. The devil of it is, you see, Signor Giovacchino, that
it will not do to treat those fellows roughly. There would be the deuce and all to pay. There
he lies, shivering, and trembling, and muttering, and going on as if he was imbecile; and swearing
he is too ill to leave his bed. I don't see how we are to get him here into court."

"Well, I've had better luck this morning; and had not to go out to seek it. My witness came
to me; and I think I have got some important evidence," said the lawyer, with much of the exultation
of a successful sportsman over a less fortunate rival.

"The deuce you have. There is a luck in those things. But if your evidence came to you--Who
the devil would ever think of coming to a Commissary of Police as long as they could stay away,
if they pleased."

"Well, my witness was not altogether a willing one; or at least she came to me for the purpose
of saying something very different from what she did say."

"But you did not come here merely to boast, I am sure, Signor Giovacchino. You are going to
tell me what you have been able to learn, eh?" said the Commissary.

"Boast, no, not I! There's nothing to boast of. Besides, you know my interest in the matter
is of a different nature from yours, Signor Pietro. All I want is to clear my friend and client,
the Marchese Ludovico. You, of course, are anxious to bring the crime home to somebody."

"True," said the Commissary, nodding his head.

"And of course, therefore, any light I can throw upon the matter, I am ready enough to bring
to you, unless it were of a nature to incriminate the Marchese," returned the lawyer.

"Of course, just so. And what you have learned this morning--"

"Tell's all t'other way; I have no difficulty in allowing that, on the first blush of the matter,
I felt no doubt that the Marchese was the guilty party. It only shows that one ought always
to have doubts of everything. It looked so very bad. The Marchese takes the girl into the wood,
comes back without her, and very shortly afterwards she is found where he left her, murdered.
And he is known to have had the greatest possible interest in getting rid of her. Would it
not have seemed a clear case to any one?"

"So one would have said indeed," assented the Commissary.

"Well, the Marchese had nothing to do with it. At the present moment I feel--well, hardly any
doubt at all that the deed was done by the girl Paolina Foscarelli."

"That's my notion too," said the Commissary, taking a pinch of snuff, and proferring his box
to his visitor; "but what is the new evidence."

"Well, the girl lives, it seems, with an old woman, a country-woman of hers, a certain Orsola
Steno. And this morning the old lady comes to my studio for the avowed purpose of begging me
not to countenance in any way the very mistaken notion that her adopted daughter had murdered
the prima donna; the truth being, as she was good enough to inform me, that the latter had
committed suicide."

"Bah, what senseless nonsense!" interrupted the Commissary, indignantly.

"Of course. I pointed out to the old lady that her theory was, according to the medical testimony,
simply impossible; but that naturally made not the slightest difference in her opinion of the
matter. And then, aided by a little gentle assistance, she prattled on, an old fool, admitting,
or insisting rather, that there had been bitter hatred and animosity between Paolina and the
murdered woman; that Paolina had conceived the bitterest jealousy of the singer; that she was
persuaded that the latter was scheming with a set purpose to lure her acknowledged lover, the
Marchese, away from her; that she was further persuaded that the singer nourished the bitterest
hatred of her, Paolina. What do you say to that, Signor Commissary? How does the land lie now,
eh?" said the lawyer, triumphantly, in conclusion.

Signor Pietro nodded his head with most emphatic approbation and confirmation of his friend's
opinion.

"Is not it the more likely story in every way?" pursued the lawyer; "just look at it. The Marchese
is known to every man, woman, and child in Ravenna; and being known for what he is, it would
be difficult to persuade anybody that he had lifted his hand to murder a defenceless and sleeping
woman. But we can all of us easily understand that it is exceedingly likely that he may have
so behaved as to make these two women furiously jealous of each other; at least to have made
this girl Paolina, to whom, it seems, he had promised marriage, desperately furious against
the other, whom she had but too good reason to suspect of having attracted the preference of
the Marchese. Then look at the instrument with which the murder was accomplished,--a needle.
Is it in any way likely that the Marchese Ludovico should habitually carry such a thing about
with him? Is there any unlikelihood that the girl may have had such a thing about her; Amico
mio Pietro," said the lawyer, in conclusion, tapping his fingers on the Commissary's coat-sleeve
as he spoke, "that Venetian girl is the murderess! The deed was done under the influence of
maddening jealousy."

"How on earth could that old woman come to you with a budget of such damning facts against
her friend? Do you think she--the old woman-- has any guilty knowledge of the crime?"

"Lord bless you, no! If she had, she would not have been so simple. No, she firmly believes
her own theory of the matter, that the poor Diva killed herself. She is too firmly persuaded
of it to perceive the bearing of her admissions of the hatred that existed between the two girls."

"I learned something yesterday," said the Commissary, "which all looks the same way, not much,
but in such a case every little helps. This old friar--this Padre Fabiano--is, we know, a Venetian;
and now I have ascertained that, years ago, before he came here, there was some connection
of some sort--acquaintance, friendship of whatever kind you like--between him and the parents
of the girl Paolina. I think it likely enough that the frate's friendship was more particularly
with the girl's mother rather than with her father,--we know what friars' ways are, and, maybe,
we should not go far wrong if we imagined that the Father had reason to feel a fatherly interest
of a quite special kind in the young lady. Now all this is worth only just this. Why did the
frate return from the Pineta in such a state of terror, agitation, and horror? Why, supposing
him to have seen, or in any way become acquainted with facts calculated to produce such an
effect upon him, does he obstinately refuse to give us any information upon the subject? How
will this answer fit? In the course of that walk to the Pineta, undertaken, no doubt, because
the old man felt anxiety as to what was likely to follow from the probable meeting of the two
girls after the scene witnessed in his presence by Paolina from the window of the church--in
the course of that walk, let us suppose, the friar became acquainted with the fact that this
girl--his daughter, we will say, for, in all probability, she is such--had murdered her rival.
The knowledge of the fact sends him back to his cell half dead with horror and fright. His
interest in Paolina ties his tongue, and frustrates all our efforts to get any explanation
from him. How will that do, eh, Signor Giovacchino?"

"Admirably well. Clearly helps to give consistency and probability to our theory of the facts.
I begin to think that all danger to my client is at an end, and, upon my word, I am more glad
of it than I can tell you; it would have been a shocking thing. I am an old Ravenna man, you
know, and should have felt it differently from what you would, you know."

"True; but I am glad enough that the Marchese should be cleared in the matter, and so will
the Government be--very glad."

"I suppose there is no objection to my seeing the Marchesino?"

"Oh, certainly not the least in the world. It is a pity that he should be detained here any
longer; but I am almost afraid to take the responsibility of discharging him before some formal
inquiry has been made."

"Naturally, naturally. When do you suppose you will be ready to bring the affair to a trial?"

"Oh, very soon. If there were any chance of getting that old frate into court it would be worth
while to wait for him; but I am afraid that the longer we wait the worse his fever and ague
will get. But I shall have another try at him out there first."

And with that Signor Fortini passed to the chamber in which the Marchese Ludovico was confined.

CHAPTER III

Could it have been the Aged Friar?

"Signor Marchese," said the old man, stretching out his hand with, for him, a very unusual
degree of impulsive cordiality, "I have come to make amende honorable--I need hardly say how
delighted I am to do so. It is not only that I think I may say there is now very little chance
of any mischief falling on you in consequence of that unlucky excursion to the Pineta, but
that I am able, thank God, to say that I have myself no longer the smallest suspicion that
you had any hand in the crime that has been committed there."

"Has anything been discovered, then?" asked Ludovico, eagerly. "Ah-- h--h! that would be good
news indeed," added the young man, drawing a long breath of relief,--the evident strength of
which feeling afforded a measure of the suffering he had endured more indicative of the real
state of his mind than any amount of depression which he had before allowed to be apparent.

"Well; enough, I think, has been discovered to relieve you of all suspicion--enough, as I said,
to convince my own mind very satisfactorily that you are innocent of all complicity in the matter."

"I confess that I should have preferred, Signor Fortini, that my own assertion should have
sufficed to produce that conviction," replied the young man, somewhat drily.

"My dear Signor Marchese, permit me to say that such preference would have been ill founded.
Is not my conviction, based upon the probabilities of the known facts, of much greater value
than any mere acquiescence with your assertions? These are matters, my dear sir, which must
be looked at reasonably, and not merely sentimentally. If you had committed murder--if I had
committed murder,--should we not either of us, have denied it as resolutely as you denied this?
If the circumstances are such as to cause a man-- any man--to be suspected at all, no words
of his can be worth anything whatsoever on the subject; and you must admit that, the circumstances
being as they were, it was impossible that the first suspicion should not have fallen on you.
You may believe that no efforts or activity have been wanting on my part for: the discovery
of the means of removing this suspicion. Let us be thankful that they have, to a very great
degree, been successful."

"And what has been found out? For God's sake tell me all about it! I declare, for my own part,
I could almost believe that I had done it myself in my sleep, or in a fit of madness without
knowing it, so utterly impossible does it seem to me to imagine what hand it could have been
that did the deed."

"Signor Marchese, the hand that did that deed was no other than the hand of the Venetian girl,
Paolina Foscarelli," said the lawyer, with deliberate and impressive slowness, emphasizing
his words with extended forefinger as he uttered them.

"Pshaw! Is that all you have to tell me?" cried the Marchese, jumping up from his chair, and
pacing the room with impatient strides. "It is an absurdity upon the face of it; I should have
hoped that nobody in Ravenna would have believed it possible that I could have been guilty
of such a deed; but, by Heaven, the whole city will see that it is more likely that I should
have done it than Paolina! It is simply absurd."

"Signor Marchese, prepossessions, and previous notions of what might have been expected to
be possible, are of no value in such a case as this against the logic of facts and circumstances.
Other young women, who seemed as little likely to be capable of such a deed as this Signorina
Foscarelli, have committed such--and have done it under the pressure of motives exactly similar
to those which we know with certainty to have been vehemently operative in the heart of the
Venetian."

"Motives! What conceivable motive could have existed to--"

"What motive? The most powerful of all the passions that ever drove a woman to become guilty
of crime--jealousy; jealousy, Signor Marchese, has been the motive of this murder. Look at
the facts as they stand: we know that this Paolina Foscarelli was in the immediate neighbourhood
of the spot where the deed was done, and as nearly as possible at the time when it was done;
we know--excuse me, Signor Marchese, for speaking very plainly; it is absolutely necessary
to be plain--we know that this girl had great reason to feel jealous of La Bianca. Remember
that she saw you and the singer driving tete-a-tete together in that solitary place at that
unusual hour. I leave it to your own feeling to estimate the degree of jealousy which such
a sight, together with other previous circumstances, was calculated to produce in this girl's
mind; but, if that be not enough, we know, as a matter of fact, that she had, even previously
to seeing what was, so calculated to drive her jealousy to a pitch of fury, expressed jealousy,
animosity and hatred against the woman whom she considered as her rival. We have this in evidence--the
perfectly unimpeachable evidence of the Signora Orsola Steno. Add to that, again, that the
method of the murder was just such as a woman was likely to adopt, and that a man was very
little likely to think of, or to have the means of, in his possession. Put all these certain
facts together, Signor Marchese; and I think it will be impossible for even your mind to resist
the conviction that must force itself upon every one who considers the circumstances."

The Marchese stopped in his agitated walk to and fro across the floor of the chamber, and gazed
into the lawyer's face with an expression of bewilderment ands pain, which the old man met
with a keen and steady glance, and a grave shake of the head. The Marchese, after encountering
his eye for a few moments, struck his open hand on his forehead, and threw himself on the chair
he had left without uttering a word.

"And to you, Signor Marchese, it assuredly cannot appear strange that the circumstances I have
enumerated should carry with them the conviction to other minds that Paolina Foscarelli is
guilty of the murder of the singer," continued the lawyer, speaking very slowly and fixing
the keen glance of his dark bright eyes on the working face of his companion; "to you, above
all others, this cannot appear strange, since--to your own mind this suspicion first occurred."

"What do you mean? I! Signor Fortini. What strange notion is misleading you? I don't know what
you mean!" cried the Marchese, while a look of horror gradually crept over his face.

"When the body of the murdered woman was brought into the city,-- when we two stood in the
gateway, and when your hand raised the sheet that covered the face of the dead, you exclaimed
aloud `Paolina!' What was then the thought that was in your mind? I imagined, at the time,
that you recognized her in the dead woman before you. A very few minutes, however, sufficed
to show that it was not Paolina, but Bianca who lay there murdered. And then, amid the horror
of the first idea of your guilt, which the nature of the circumstances rendered inevitable,
I thought no more of the exclamation you had uttered. But I have not forgotten the fact. You
did, on seeing Bianca dead before you, exclaim, `Good God! Paolina!' What was the thought in
your mind, Signor Marchese, that prompted that exclamation? What but the sudden spontaneous
rush of the conviction that it was she who had done the deed on which you were looking?"

For a few moments the Marchese seemed too much stunned by the inference, and the appeal of
the lawyer, and by the vision of the consequences, which he purposed drawing from it, to utter
any reply to the demand which had been made on him.

"You mistake, Signor Fortini," he gasped out at last; "you are in error. I cannot have made
any such exclamation. I have no consciousness of anything of the kind. In any case no such
monstrous idea, as you would infer from it, ever entered into my mind. You know how anxious
I was about Paolina's prolonged absence. I was thinking of her; at least, I suppose so, if,
indeed, I uttered her name. I have no recollection. I don't know why I should have done so.
All I know is that no such horrible and impossible suggestion ever presented itself to my mind
for an instant. If it were otherwise," continued the young man, after a few moments of painfully
concentrated thought,--"if it were otherwise, why did I not suggest such a solution of the
mystery when I found myself accused of the crime?"

"That, Signor Marchese, those who know you best will be least at a loss to understand," replied
the lawyer. "The motive that ruled your conduct then, is the same that rules it now. You were
then unwilling, as you are now unwilling, to exculpate yourself at the cost of inculpating
one who is dear to you. Your objection, I am bound to tell you, carries no weight with it.
I cannot abandon that part of my case that rests upon the striking fact that your own first
impression was that Paolina was guilty."

"I utterly deny, and will continue to deny, that any such impression was ever present to my
mind. I wholly refuse to avail myself of any defence based on any such supposition; on any
idea at all, that Paolina Foscarelli is guilty. I know that she is as innocent of this deed
as the angels in heaven. I will proclaim her innocence with my last breath. I will not accept
any acquittal on the hypothesis of her guilt. I will rather avow that I did the deed myself.
In one sense I did so. In one sense I am guilty of her death. For it was I who took her to
the place, and into the circumstance that led to her death."

"Signor Marchese, in this matter the truth of the facts is what is wanted. It is that, and
that alone that the magistrates will endeavour to discover. A great many facts, as I have pointed
out to you, will be before them. Mere statements, one way or the other, will have little avail.
Quietly and seriously now, supposing we reject the theory of Paolina's guilt, are you able
yourself to conceive any other possible explanations of the facts? Can you yourself suggest
any other theory whatsoever?" said the lawyer, throwing his head on one side, and interlacing
the fingers of his clasped hands in front of his person, in calm expectation of the Marchese's
answer.

"There was another theory. I heard that the Conte Leandro had been arrested on suspicion of
being the assassin. It would be very dreadful. God forbid that I should say that I suspected
the Conte Lombardoni of having done this foul deed. But I cannot avoid seeing that it is a
great deal more likely that he should have done it than Paolina," returned the Marchese.

"The accusation against the Conte Lombardoni has been abandoned, and he has been set at liberty,"
replied the lawyer; "there was, in fact, nothing against him, except the singular circumstance
of his having gone out of the city towards the Pineta, at a very unusual hour on the morning
of that same unlucky Ash Wednesday; and that he has at last thought fit to explain."

"At last?" said Ludovico.

"Yes; for a long time he utterly refused to give any explanation of the fact whatsoever; and
his manner was altogether such as to strengthen the notion that it was possible that he might
have been the criminal. He has told the truth at last. And it is no wonder that he was loth
to tell it, for it is not much calculated to increase his popularity in the city."

"Why, what is it? I never used to think anything worse of him than that he was a fool," rejoined
the Marchese.

"A fool, and a very mischievous and malicious one, as fools mostly are. What do you think took
him out of the city that morning of the first day in Lent? Simply the desire to play the spy
on you and the poor woman who has been killed."

"No, you don't mean it? the noxious animal!" exclaimed Ludovico, with intense disgust.

"It seems that he overheard you and the singer make your appointment for the excursion, and
that, moved by curiosity and the hope of making mischief, he determined to be beforehand with
you on the road, and picking up, if he could, the means of paying off both the lady and yourself
for some of the mortification your ridicule had caused him," said the lawyer.

"I could not have believed it possible; the mean-spirited spiteful wretch! I did not think
he had it in him!" said Ludovico.

"A man is apt to be spiteful towards those who cause him to suffer greatly. And there is no
suffering greater to a man as vain as the Conte Leandro than the mortification of his vanity.
But his spitefulness has been punished: first, by a couple of days' imprisonment, and a fright
which half killed him; and secondly, by the sort of reception which you may suppose awaited
him when he was released as the result of his explanation. I think he has had his due," added
the lawyer, grimly.

"But how does his explanation exclude the possibility that he may have been the assassin after
all? Why may not the same mortified vanity that incited him to play the spy, have moved him
to take deadly vengeance on the woman he hated so bitterly? The man who was capable of the
one is likely enough to be capable of the other. He is the man who may fairly be suspected
of being capable of stabbing a woman as she slept!" argued the Marchese, with intense indignation.

"No," said the lawyer, shaking his head; "depend upon it we did not let him go till it was
made clear that he could have had no hand in the crime. He was able to prove beyond the possibility
of a doubt, that he had returned to the city, entering it by the Porta Sisi, before the earliest
time when the murder could have been committed. No; that notion has to be abandoned."

"And no other idea has been started?--no suspicion? Have the investigations of the police led
to nothing?" asked Ludovico, with profound discouragement.

The lawyer shook his head. "I have told you," he said, "how the case stands, Signor Marchese.
An idea was started at one moment that the old friar at St. Apollinare might have been the
man. Strangely enough he also was in or near the Pineta much about the same time. But the total
absence of all assignable motive--an infirm octogenarian; no, that is not it. But the truth
is, Signor Marchese, that our inquiries with reference to this Padre Fabiano have brought to
light facts which tend to make the case stronger against the girl Paolina Foscarelli."

"I tell you, Signor Fortini, that the notion of her guilt is more entirely preposterous than
any other possible imagination. I have told you that I would, rather than accept it, avow myself
the murderer;--ay, and think that I had done it too, and forgotten it," said the Marchese,
with extreme vehemence.

"But, Signor Marchese," returned the lawyer, with imperturbable calmness, "it matters nothing
to the result, whether you will accept the idea of the Venetian girl's guilt or not, seeing
that you will not be called upon to pronounce judgment in the case. The fact is, that every
reasonable consideration points to that conclusion. I wish with all my heart, that the criminal
was one in whom you were less interested." The meaning of which phrase in Signor Fortini's
mouth, probably was, that he wished the Marchese felt less interest in her who was the criminal.
"But I was about to tell you that the police have become acquainted with the fact, that this
Padre Fabiano, who is a Venetian, was formerly very closely connected in some way with the
family of Paolina Foscarelli. It seems very probable that he was, in fact, her father. Now
he followed her to the forest, and returned thence in a state of great and painful agitation,
which all mention of the subject renews and increases; and. further, the old man obstinately
refuses to give any account or explanation of his walk to the forest. The conclusion which
has suggested itself to the police authorities--not at all an unnatural or unreasonable one--is
that the old man has been cognizant of the deed done by the girl."

The Marchese seemed struck by this statement, and remained in silent thought for a few minutes.
"Paolina," he said, at length, "had motives of hatred against the woman who has been killed,
the friar had motives for feeling strong interest in Paolina. Why may it not be conceivable
that he may have adopted her cause to the extent of committing a crime with the view of righting
what may have seemed to him to be her wrongs? The explanation may seem a not very probable
one; but no possible or conceivable explanation of the terrible fact is a probable one, and,
certainly, it is more likely that the old friar should have done the deed than the young girl."

"Humph!" said the lawyer, after spending some minutes of deep thought on the idea the Marchese
had put forward; "I am not quite so sure that it is more likely. However, the theory is a plausible
one, and deserves attention. Depend upon it, we shall not lose sight of the old gentleman,
let him shiver and shake as much as he may; and now, Signor Marchese, I must go to your uncle,"
said the lawyer, rising.

"How does he bear up under all this misery?"

"Not well, not well. I cannot say that it has fared well with him during these days; but I
have some comfort in store for him. I think I may venture to assure him that there is no need
to imagine that his name has been disgraced by the commission of a crime, or that there is
any danger that such should continue to be believed to be the case, either by the magistrates
or by anybody else. You will come out of this dreadful business scatheless, Signor Marchese,
I thank God for it?"

"I will not come out scatheless at the cost of Paolina's condemnation," said the Marchese,
doggedly.

"But the Marchese Lamberto, you see," continued the lawyer, without taking any notice of his
companion's interruption,--"the Marchese Lamberto has been hit from more sides than one. The
most unfortunate and lamentable fascination that this woman seems to have exercised over him--the
deplorable fact that he should have proposed marriage to her, and that this fact should be
universally known,--it is impossible that he should not have suffered, and still suffer terribly.
Honestly, I cannot say that I think he will ever altogether get over it--he will never be the
same man again. Would to God that fatal woman had never come near Ravenna!"

"Many thanks for your visit, Signor Fortini, and for all the kindness you have shown me since
this sad misfortune befell. Tell my uncle how much I have felt and feel for him. Addio, Signor
Fortini. If anything new should turn up you will not fail to let me know it? Think of what
I said about the friar; and mind, once more, and once for all, I will not come scatheless,
as you say, out of this business and leave Paolina to be held guilty."

"Addio, Signor Marchese."

CHAPTER IV

What Ravenna thought of it

Signor Fortini had rather mitigated than exaggerated the truth in speaking to the Marchese
Ludovico of his uncle's state of mind. During all these days his condition was truly deplorable.
He had never, in all this time, left the Palazzo, and had scarcely left his own chamber. He
absolutely refused to see anybody save Signor Fortini. He could not sleep by night, or remain
at rest in the same place for half-an-hour together during the day.

Of course he could attend to none of the numerous duties--mostly labours of benevolence--that
usually occupied his time. His servants thought that he was losing his reason; yet, in the
midst of all the terrible distress that was weighing him down, the usual kindness and considerate
benevolence of his nature and habitual conduct had shone out. The only one thing that he had
given any attention to was the gratification of the wishes, and the promotion of the welfare,
of an old servant.

Niccolo, the old groom who was mentioned, as the reader may, perhaps, remember, on the occasion
of a certain conversation which Lawyer Fortini had with him, as having been all his life in
the service of the Marchese, and of his father before him, was getting, as he had himself remarked
to the lawyer, almost too old for his work. He had always hitherto absolutely refused, with
the masterful obstinacy of an old favourite, all proposals of retirement; but, on the next
morning but one after the fatal Ash Wednesday, while the Marchese had been in such a state
of painful agitation that he could hardly bear to be addressed by his own servant, he had,
to the great surprise of all the household, sent for old Niccolo, who had remained with him
more than an hour.

On coming out from the interview the old groom said that he had himself asked for the audience
his master had given him; but it did not seem at all clear to the other servants when or how
he could have done so. He said that he had spoken to his master on the subject long before;
and how kind and good it was of the Marchese to think of his old servant's affairs in all his
trouble. His master had arranged for him, he said, what he had long wished for, though it seemed
to all the household that old Niccolo had always rejected any proposal of the sort. He was
to have a pension, and go to live with a niece of his who was married in Rome.

It was odd that none of his fellow-servants had ever heard anything of any such niece. But
old Niccolo was not a man of a communicative turn; and perhaps nothing had ever chanced to
lead him to speak of her. Now he was to join her at once; he was to start for Faenza that very
afternoon, so as to catch there the diligence from Bologna to Rome.

But why such a sudden start? Why should he go off and leave them all, at a few hours' notice.

Well, the fact was, that the day after the morrow was his niece's birthday. And he thought
he should like to give her the joyful surprise of seeing her old uncle and learning the new
arrangements on that day. And his dear thoughtful master, who was always so kind to everybody,
had entered into his scheme, and so arranged it.

And so it was; old Niccolo was gone to Rome as he had said. But he had given nobody any address
by which to find him in the Eternal City. And a little jealousy, perhaps, was felt at the good
fortune which had thus befallen one out of several who would have liked the same. But all admitted
that it was a remarkable proof of the thoughtful kindness of the Marchese in the midst of his
own troubles.

And how terribly those troubles pressed on him was evident to the whole household; and, by
means of their reports, to the entire city. Everybody in Ravenna knew with how heavy a hand
affliction had fallen upon the Marchese Lamberto. And everybody talked of it. Sympathizing
pity and blame were mingled in the judgments which were being passed on the Marchese every
hour, and in every place where men or women met; and the proportions in which they were mingled
differed greatly. None, however, could fail to see and to admit that the fall from the high
pinnacle, on which the Marchese had stood, had been a very terrible one. It was felt that it
was a fall from which he could never, under any circumstances, entirely recover.

The women were, for the most part, more indulgent to him than the men. As for the unfortunate
Bianca, they held that a righteous and deserved judgment had fallen upon her, in which the
operation of the finger of Providence was distinctly visible. To be sure it was a signal warning
to all men, as to the evils which might be expected to flow from any sipping of the Circean
cup which such creatures proffered to their lips. But what fate could be too bad for the Siren
herself? To think of the audacity, the shameless effrontery of such an one in daring to spread
her lures, and wind her enchantments around such a man as the Marchese di Castelmare. Of course
he, poor man, could not but feel her death as a terrible shock. What he had set his heart on
had been violently and awfully, taken away from him. And how true it is that the blessed Saints
know what is most truly for our good! But what is all that to the dreadful accusation hanging
over the Marchese Ludovico? A Castelmare in the prison of Ravenna under accusation of murder!
And if it really were the case, that the unfortunate young man, driven by the prospect of being
hurled down from his position and robbed of his inheritance, had done this deed, how great,
how terrible, must be the remorse of the Marchese Lamberto!

It was curiously characteristic of the moral nature and habits of thought of the people, that
the Marchese Ludovico, even on the hypothesis that he had committed the murder, was very leniently
judged for his share in the tragedy.

The men were more inclined to bear hard on the Marchese Lamberto. An old fool! at his time
of life, to offer marriage to such a woman as La Bianca. To disgrace his name; to cover himself
with ridicule; and above all, and worst of all, to behave with such infamous injustice to his
nephew. Nevertheless the tragedy was so shocking and so complete, that even those who were
disposed to condemn his conduct the most severely, could not but feel compassion for so crushing
a weight of misfortune.

As the opinion, however, began to gain ground in the city, that the Marchesino Ludovico had,
after all, not been the author of the murder; that the first impression, however clearly the
circumstances seemed, at the first blush of the thing, to point to it, was a mistaken one;
and that the far more probable opinion was that the Venetian girl, Paolina Foscarelli, was
the murderess, and jealousy the incentive to her crime, the compassion for the Marchese Lamberto
became proportionably less. The feeling was rather, that as far as he was concerned he had
got nothing worse than what he richly deserved. And who should say that all was not upon the
whole for the best as it had pleased heaven to cause it to fall out? The Marchese Lamberto
was saved, despite his own folly, from a disgraceful and degrading marriage; and Ludovico was
saved from the ruin which threatened him.

Nor, muttered the more cynical, was that all the good that was involved in what, at first sight,
seemed so great a misfortune. Ludovico, too, was prevented from doing a foolish thing. It was
a very different matter in his case from that of his uncle: he would be doing no wrong to any
heir; and he was at that time of life when men do fall in love, and are excusable if they are
led by it into doing foolish things; not to mention that, after all, the marriage he had proposed
to make was a very different one from such a monstrous alliance as the Marchese Lamberto had
meditated.

But still was it not a great blessing that the Marchesino should be prevented from throwing
himself away in that manner? The first match in Ravenna to be carried off by an obscure and
plebeian Venetian artist. Truly it was all for the best as it was.

In their different degree these two stranger women were both noxious, dangerous, and had done
more mischief in Ravenna than the lives of either of them were worth. And if Providence had
in its wisdom decreed that they should mutually counteract and abolish each other--why it would
behove them to see in it a signal instance of the overruling wisdom of Heaven.

In the meantime, however, while every imaginable variety and modification of the above ideas
and opinions were forming the staple of every conversation in every street, house, cafe, and
piazza of Ravenna, the two men, whose conduct was thus canvassed, were assuredly suffering
no light measure of retribution for aught that they had done amiss.

To Ludovico the tidings which reached him of the favourable turn matters were taking as to
the probability of his having himself to answer for the murder of the singer, were neutralized
in any effect they might otherwise have had of bringing him happiness, by the fact that he
was exculpated only in exact proportion to the increasing probability that Paolina might be
held guilty of the crime.

If, in truth, he carried in his own bosom the consciousness of his own guilt, it may easily
be imagined how horrible to him would appear the prospect of escaping from the consequences
of it by such means. And if that were, indeed, the dreadful truth, the repeated declarations
which he had made to Signor Fortini to the effect that, rather than see Paolina condemned as
guilty, he would confess himself to be the murderer, would in no wise appear as mere ebullitions
of his determination to save at all price the girl he loved.

But, during those days Ludovico suffered, he either bore his sufferings with much more of manly
self-command than did his uncle, or else his agony was (as Signor Fortini, who saw them both,
could testify) much less severe than that which seemed to be slowly dragging down the Marchese
Lamberto to the grave.

The lawyer had told Ludovico that he was then going to his uncle; and, in fact, he did so.
But the old man dreaded doing so more than he could have himself believed that he could have
feared any similar duty.

In truth, the condition of the Marchese Lamberto was pitiable.

He would see no one, save Fortini; but he was most anxious for his visits--very naturally anxious
to hear from day to day, and almost from hour to hour, how matters were going--whether any
new circumstances had been discovered; what change there was in the probabilities as to the
final judgment respecting the crime; and there was a restless feverishness in his anxiety,
a shattered condition of the nervous system that made the lawyer seriously fear that the Marchese's
reason would sink under the strain.

He had again and again urged him to allow a medical man to see him; and had once mentioned
the Marchese's old friend Professor Tomosarchi. But the irritated violence with which the suffering
man had rejected the proposal, had been such as to lead the lawyer to think that he should
be doing more harm than good by reiterating it.

It was not surprising, indeed, that the Marchese should be utterly beaten down and vanquished
by the misfortunes that had fallen upon him; they attacked him from such various and opposite
sides. His love for Bianca--or, let me say (in order to satisfy readers who are wont to weigh
the real meaning of words as well as those who are in the habit of taking them unexamined at
their current value), his longing to possess her--was genuine and intense. The step he had
determined to take gives the measure of his eagerness in the pursuit of her--of his conviction
that he could not live without her; and the object of this great, this intense, this all-mastering
passion had been snatched away from him; the unappeasable agony of such a bereavement can,
perhaps, only be adequately measured by those who have felt it.

Then all the evils which, despite his shrinking from them, he had faced for the sake of gratifying
this imperious passion, had fallen upon him as fatally of though the price of his facing them
had been paid to him. All the loss of credit, of respect, of social station, which he had found
it so dreadful to contemplate, had been incurred- -and for nothing. How long and terrible had
been the struggle, which of those two incompatible, objects of his intense desire--Bianca,
or the social position he held in the eyes of his fellow-citizens--he should sacrifice to the
other; it had seemed to him so impossible to give up either that the necessity of choosing
between them had almost unhinged his reason. And now he was doomed to forego them both.

Then, again, Ludovico, and the dreadful position in which he stood! and, if he were condemned,
on whose head would fall the blame of the disgrace which would thus overwhelm the family name?
If his nephew were held to be guilty of this crime, would not all the odium of having driven
him to it fall on him?

Truly there was wherewithal to bow down a stronger heart and head than those of the Marchese
Lamberto.

According to Fortini's view of the matter, the tidings which he had to bring the Marchese that
morning ought to have gone far to tranquillize and comfort him. Let it be shown that the heir
to the Castelmare name and honours had not committed a terrible crime, and was not in danger
of being convicted of it, and, in his opinion, all the worst of the evils which had fallen
on the Marchese were at an end. That was the only really irreparable mischief; the city would
have its laugh at the Marchese for his sensibility to the charms of such a charmer as the singer.
But even that would be quenched by the startling change of the comedy into a tragedy. The Marchese
had shown that he was no wiser than many another man; and it would be but a nine days' wonder;
and as to the mere loss of the woman who had done all the mischief, the lawyer had no patience
with the mention of it as a loss at all.

Pshaw! The one really important matter was to clear the heir of the house of all complicity
in the crime of murder; and yet the lawyer had a strong feeling, from what he had already seen
of the Marchese, that the good news of which he was the bearer in that respect would not give
the Marchese all the comfort that it ought to give him.

And the result of the visit to the Palazzo Castelmare, which he paid immediately after leaving
the Marchesino Ludovico in his prison, perfectly responded to his anticipations in this respect.

CHAPTER V

"Miserrimus"

He found the Marchese in a state which really seemed to threaten his life or his reason. It
would scarcely be correct to say of him that he was depressed, for that phrase is hardly consistent
with the feverish condition of excitement in which he was. There was evidence enough in his
appearance of the presence of deep-seated and torturing misery, especially devastating in the
case of men of his race, constituted as they are with nervous systems of great delicacy, and
unendowed with that robustness of fibre which enables the more strongly-fashioned scions of
the northern peoples to stand up against misfortune, and present a bold front to adversity.

There is no connection in the minds of this race between the repression and control of emotion
and their ideal of virile dignity. Reticence is impossible to them. The Italian man, it is
true, has been often described as eminently reticent; and the northern popular conception represents
him as apt to seek the attainment of his object by the concealment of it. Nor is that representation
an erroneous one. But the two statements are in no wise inconsistent. The Italian man is by
nature, habit, and training an adept at concealing his thoughts; he rarely or never seeks to
conceal his emotions.

Whether there were thoughts in the Marchese's mind, which he had no wish or intention to disclose
to his visitor, might be a matter of speculation to the latter. But he certainly made no attempt
to hide the misery which was consuming him. The outward appearance of the man was eloquent
enough of the disorder within. He had always been wont to be especially neat and precise in
his dress; clean shaven, and with that look of bright freshness on his clear-complexioned and
well-rounded cheeks, which is specially suggestive of health, happiness, and well-to-do prosperity.
Now his cheeks were hollow and yellow, and grisly stubble of uncared-for beard, covered his
deeply- lined jaws. He was dressed, if dressed it could be called, in a large loose chamber
wrapper, the open neck of which, and of the shirt beneath it, allowed the visitor's eye to
mark that the emaciation which a few days of misery and anxiety had availed to cause, was not
confined to his face only.

But yet more remarkable was the terrible state of nervous restlessness from which he was evidently
suffering. He was unable to remain quiet in his easy chair even while his visitor remained
with him. He would every now and then rise from it without reason, and pace the room for two
or three turns with the uneasy objectless manner of a wild animal confined to a cage. Again
and again he would go to the window, and gaze from it, as though looking for some expected
thing or person. He spoke and behaved as if he had been most anxious for the coming of the
lawyer, and yet, now he was there, he seemed scarcely able to command his attention sufficiently
to take interest in the tidings Signor Fortini brought him.

"Thank God, Signor Marchese, the news I bring is good. Thank God, I am able to express to you
my conscientious opinion that the Marchese Ludovico had no more to do with the murder of this
unfortunate woman than I had. And such is now the general opinion throughout the city."

"Is there anything new? Has any--any--discovery been made?" said the Marchese, and his teeth
chattered in his head as he spoke.

"Nothing that I can quite call a discovery," returned the lawyer; "but small circumstances
in such a case as this, when carefully put together, form a clue, which rarely fails, when
one has enough of them, to lead up to the desired truth."

"Ah!--small circumstances, as you say--yes--but circumstances--eh?-- do they not often--must
we not be very careful--eh?" and the Marchese shook as he spoke, till the lawyer really began
to think that he must be labouring under an attack of the same illness that had seized on father
Fabiano.

"Fortunately, Signor Marchese, the circumstances all point, in the present instance, in the
direction we would wish. That is," added the lawyer, hastily, "God forbid that I should wish
such a crime to be brought home to any human being, but in the interests of truth and justice;
and of course our first object is that the Marchese Ludovico should be cleared."

"Of course, of course. Why naturally, you know--But--in what direction--eh?--do the suspicions--that
is, the opinions--you, yourself, Signor Giovacchino--who do you think now could have done the
deed?" said the Marchese, finishing his sentence with an apparent effort.

"My notion is," said the lawyer, speaking strongly and distinctly, "that the murder was committed
by the Venetian girl, Paolina Foscarelli. You are aware of the circumstances that first directed
suspicion towards her. Alone they are very strong; but some other little matters have come
out. She has now been examined several times; and the account she gives of the hours that passed
between the time she left the church of St. Apollinare, and the time when she was first seen
afterwards is a very lame and unsatisfactory one. Then, my friend, Signor Logarini, of the
police, who has been most praiseworthily active in the matter, has discovered that the old
friar, who has the charge of the Basilica, and who is a Venetian, was connected with the parents
of this girl, which renders it extremely probable that he may wish to screen her; and that
fact, taken in conjunction with the very strong reasons we have to think that the friar has
some knowledge of the deed, and his very manifest reluctance to tell what he knows, seems to
point in the same direction."

"The friar at St. Apollinare," said the Marchese, with blue trembling lips, as he looked keenly
into the lawyer's face; "why it is impossible that he could know anything about it. The friar--"

"Impossible? why impossible, Signor Marchese? We know that he was in the Pineta much about
the time the deed must have been done."

The Marchese threw himself back in his deep easy chair, and covered his face with his hand.
The lawyer paused, and shook his head as he looked at him.

"The friar in the Pineta!" he exclaimed, getting up from his chair after a minute or two, and
taking a few disorderly steps across the room.

"You see; Signor Giovacchino," he continued, returning to his seat, "I have been so shaken
by all the misery I have gone through, and all the sleepless nights I have passed, that--that--that
I am hardly in a fit state to appreciate the value of the--the facts you lay before me. I have
been trying to think--I am afraid--very much afraid for my own part that no weight is to be
attributed to any testimony which may be got from the friar of St. Apollinare."

"Why so, Signor Marchese?" asked the lawyer, shortly.

"I know the old man very well. I have often talked with him. He is not in his right mind: certainly
not in such a state of mind as would justify the magistrates in paying any attention to his
statements," said the Marchese, in a more decided manner than he had before spoken.

"I spoke with the old man at some length the other day, and I cannot say that that was my impression
at all. In my opinion he was quite enough in his senses to know how to withhold the information
which, I suspect, he could give us if he would. May I ask, Signor Marchese, how long it is
since you have spoken with him?"

"Oh! a long time. How could I speak to him, you know. I do not suppose he often comes into
the city. And it is ever so long--a year or more--since I was out at St. Apollinare; as far
as I can remember," said the Marchese, with a rapid sidelong glance at the lawyer; "but I am
convinced the old man is not in his right mind," he added, not without some vehemence; "and
it is dangerous to put any faith, or to build at all upon anything that such a person may say.
Why, he is always seeing visions; and what is such an one's account worth of anything he may
fancy himself to have seen."

"Well, Signor Marchese, the tribunal will form its own opinion upon that point. For my own
part, I cannot help feeling glad of any scrap of evidence which tends to corroborate the opinion
that the Marchese Ludovico has been erroneously and precipitately accused."

"Of course, Signor Giovacchino, of course. A chi lo dite! And I am truly obliged to you for
coming to me with the news you have given me. But you can understand, perhaps--in part, Signor
Giovacchino, in part--not altogether--what I have gone through in these days. My mind has been
shaken--sadly shaken, amico mio. I shall never recover it--never," said the Marchese, letting
his head fall on his bosom.

