The thanks of parliament were voted to Amherst and Boscawen. Boscawen received them in person,
being a member of the House of Commons. The speaker read the address, which was couched in
the usual verbiage worked up by one of the select committees employed on such occasions. But
Boscawen replied, as men of action should, with fewer words and much more force and point:
'Mr Speaker, Sir, I am happy to have been able to do my duty. I have no words to express my
sense of the distinguished reward that has been conferred upon me by this House; nor can I
thank you, Sir, enough for the polite and elegant manner in which you have been pleased to
convey its resolution to me.'

The American colonists in general rejoiced exceedingly that Louisbourg and all it meant had
been exterminated. But, especially in New England, their joy was considerably tempered by the
reflection that the final blow had been delivered without their aid, and that the British arms
had met with a terrible reverse at Ticonderoga, where the American militia had outnumbered
the old-country regulars by half as much again. Nevertheless Boston built a 'stately bonfire,'
which made a 'lofty and prodigious blaze'; while Philadelphia, despite its parasitic Quakers,
had a most elaborate display of fireworks representing England, Louisbourg, the siege, the
capture, the triumph, and reflected glory generally. 

Not all flowers are fresh and beautiful, also there are withered and ugly. Do not blame me,
therefore, presumably, if a figure of speech valiéndome call my poor flowers withered ingenuity
to the stories that follow. And if they are flowers and add that no connection each other and I the
get together with them haphazardly to form a cluster or bundle. Sea this brief prologue tape
or tie the tie, so that each of flowers will not be by his side.
 The
real race came off when the victorious fleet and army returned in triumph. Land and water were
then indeed alive with exultant crowds. The streets were like a fair, and a noisy one at that.
Soldiers, sailors, and civilians drank standing toasts the whole night through. The commissioner
of excise recorded, not without a touch of proper pride, that, quite apart from all illicit
wines and spirits, no less than sixty thousand gallons of good Jamaica rum were drunk in honour
of the fall of Louisbourg. In higher circles, where wine was commoner than spirits, the toasts
were honoured just as often. 

Ilan, Illanes, Lanos, Lanaos and Malanao are some of the names given to certain pirates who inhabit the
coast of Mindanao. The names denote different types wool, or lanun,
indigenous to the island.

CHAPTER V

ANNIHILATION 1760

The new garrison of Louisbourg hated it as thoroughly as any of their predecessors, French
or British. They repaired the breaches, in a temporary way, and ran up shelters for the winter.
Interest revived with the spring; for Wolfe was coming back again, this time to command an
army of his own and take Quebec.

The great absorbing question was, Who's for the front and who for the base? Both fleet and
army made their rendezvous at Louisbourg; a larger fleet and a smaller army than those of the
year before. Two new toasts were going the rounds of the Service: 'Here's to the eye of a Hawke
and the heart of a Wolfe!' and 'Here's to British colours on every French fort, port, and garrison
in America!' Of course they were standing toasts. The men who drank them already felt the presage
of Pitt's great Empire Year of 1759.

