"Mrs. Lathrop," said Miss Clegg, "all I can say is I come out better than the most of 'em,
'n' if you could see Sam Duruy or Mr. Kimball or the minister you 'd know I spoke the truth.
The deacon 'n' Polly is both in bed 'n' can't see how each other looks, 'n' them as has a eye
is goin' to tend them as can't see at all, an' God help 'em all if young Dr. Brown an' the
mud run dry!" with which pious ejaculation Susan painfully mounted the steps and sat down with
exceeding gentleness upon a chair.

Mrs. Lathrop stared at her in dumb and wholly bewildered amazement. After a while Miss Clegg
continued.

"It was all the deacon's fault. Him 'n' Polly was so dead set on bein' fashionable 'n' bein'
a contrast to Hiram an Lucy, 'n' I hope to-night as they lay there all puffed up as they 'll
reflect on their folly 'n' think a little on how the rest of us as did n't care rhyme or reason
for folly is got no choice but to puff up, too. Mrs. Jilkins is awful mad; she says Mr. Jilkins
wanted to wear his straw hat anyhow, 'n' she says she always has hated his silk hat 'cause
it reminds her o' when she was young 'n' foolish enough to be willin' to go 'n' marry into
a family as was foolish enough to marry into Deacon White. Mrs. Jilkins is extra hot because
she got one in the neck, but my own idea is as Polly Allen's weddin' was the silliest doin's
as I ever see from the beginnin', 'n' the end wa'n't no more than might o' been expected--all
things considered.

"When I got to the church, what do you think was the first thing as I see, Mrs. Lathrop? Well,
you 'd never guess till kingdom come, so I may as well tell you. It was Ed 'n' Sam Duruy 'n'
Henry Ward Beecher 'n' Johnny standin' there waitin' to show us to our pews like we did n't
know our own pews after sittin' in 'em for all our life-times! I just shook my head 'n' walked
to my pew, 'n' there, if it was n't looped shut with a daisy-chain! Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I wish
you could have been there to have felt for me, for I may remark as a cyclone is a caterpillar
wove up in hisself beside my face when I see myself daisy-chained out o' my own pew by Polly
Allen. Ed was behind me 'n' he whispered 'That's reserved for the family.' I give him one look
'n' I will state, Mrs. Lathrop, as he wilted. It did n't take me long to break that daisy-chain
'n' sit down in that pew, 'n' I can assure you as no one asked me to get up again. Mrs. Jilkins's
cousins from Meadville come 'n' looked at me sittin' there, but I give them jus' one look back
'n' they went 'n' sat with Mrs. Macy themselves. A good many other folks was as surprised as
me over where they had to sit, but we soon had other surprises as took the taste o' the first
clean out o' our mouths.

"Just as Mrs. Davison begin to play the organ, Ed 'n' Johnny come down with two clothes-lines
wound 'round with clematis 'n' tied us all in where we sat. Then they went back 'n' we all
stayed still 'n' could n't but wonder what under the sun was to be done to us next. But we
did n't have long to wait, 'n' I will say as anythin' to beat Polly's ideas I never see--no--nor
no one else neither.

"'Long down the aisle, two 'n' two, 'n' hand in hand, like they thought they was suthin' pretty
to look at, come Ed 'n' Johnny 'n' Henry Ward Beecher 'n' Sam Duruy, 'n' I vow 'n' declare,
Mrs. Lathrop, I never was so nigh to laughin' in church in all my life. They knowed they was
funny, too, 'n' their mouths 'n' eyes was tight set sober, but some one in the back just had
to giggle, 'n' when we heard it we knew as things as was n't much any other day would use us
up this day, sure. They stopped in front 'n' lined up, two on a side, 'n' then, for all the
world like it was a machine-play, the little door opened 'n' out come the minister 'n' solemnly
walked down to between them. I must say we was all more than a little disappointed at its only
bein' the minister, 'n' he must have felt our feelin's, for he began to cough 'n' clear up
his throat 'n' his little desk all at once. Then Mrs. Davison jerked out the loud stop 'n'
began to play for all she was worth, 'n' the door behind banged 'n' every one turned aroun' to see.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, we saw,--'n' I will in truth remark as such a sawin' we 'll never probably
get a chance to do again! Mrs. Sweet says they practised it over four times at the church,
so they can't deny as they meant it all, 'n' you might lay me crossways 'n' cut me into chipped
beef 'n' still I would declare as I would n't have the face to own to havin' had any hand in
plannin' any such weddin'.

"First come 'Liza Em'ly 'n' Rachel Rebecca hand in hand carryin' daisies--of all things in
the world to take to a weddin'--'n' then come Brunhilde Susan, with a daisy-chain around her
neck 'n' her belt stuck full o' daisies 'n'--you can believe me or not, jus' as you please,
Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' still it won't help matters any--'n' a daisy stuck in every button down her
back, 'n' daisies tangled up in her hair, 'n' a bunch o' daisies under one arm.

"Well, we was nigh to overcome by Brunhilde Susan, but we drawed some fresh breath 'n' kept
on lookin', 'n' next come Polly 'n' Mr. Allen. I will say for Mr. Allen as he seemed to feel
the ridiculousness of it all, for a redder man I never see, nor one as looked more uncomfortable.
He was daisied, too--had three in his buttonhole;--but what took us all was the way him 'n'
Polly walked. I bet no people gettin' married ever zigzagged like that before, 'n' Mrs. Sweet
says they practised it by countin' two 'n' then swingin' out to one side, 'n' then countin'
two 'n' swingin' out to the other--she watched 'em out of her attic window down through the
broke blind to the church. Well, all I can say is, that to my order o' thinkin' countin' 'n'
swingin' is a pretty frame o' mind to get a husband in, but so it was, 'n' we was all starin'
our eyes off to beat the band when the little door opened 'n', to crown everythin' else, out
come the deacon 'n Mr. Jilkins, each with a daisy 'n' a silk hat, 'n' I will remark, Mrs. Lathrop,
as new-born kittens is blood-red murderers compared to how innocent that hat o' Mr. Jilkins
looked. Any one could see as it was n't new, but he was n't new either as far as that goes,
'n' that was what struck me in particular about the whole thing--nothin' 'n' nobody was n't
any different only for Polly's foolishness 'n' the daisies.

"Well, they sorted out 'n' begun to get married, 'n' us all sittin' lookin' on 'n' no more
guessin' what was comin' next than a ant looks for a mornin' paper. The minister was gettin'
most through 'n' the deacon was gettin' out the ring, 'n' we was lookin' to get up 'n' out
pretty quick, when--my heavens alive, Mrs. Lathrop, I never will forget that minute--when Mr.
Jilkins--poor man, he's sufferin' enough for it, Lord knows!--when Mr. Jilkins dropped his hat!

"That very next second him 'n' Ed 'n' Brunhilde Susan all hopped 'n' yelled at once, 'n' the
next thing we see was the minister droppin' his book 'n' grabbin' his arm 'n' the deacon tryin'
madly to do hisself up in Polly's veil. We would 'a' all been plum petrified at such goings
on any other day, only by that time the last one of us was feelin' to hop and grab 'n' yell
on his own account. Gran'ma Mullins was tryin' to slap herself with the seat cushion, 'n' the
way the daisies flew as folks went over 'n' under that clematis rope was a caution. I got out
as quick as I--"

"But what--" interrupted Mrs. Lathrop, her eyes fairly marble-like in their redundant curiosity.

"It was wasps!" said Susan. "It was a young wasps' nest in Mr. Jilkins's hat. Seems they carried
their hats to church in their hands 'cause Polly did n't want no red rings around 'em, 'n'
so he never suspected nothin' till he dropped it. 'N' oh, poor little Brunhilde Susan in them
short skirts of hers--she might as well have wore a bee-hive! I will in confidence remark as
I got off easy, 'n' you can look at me 'n' figger on what them as got it hard has got on them.
Young Dr. Brown went right to work with mud 'n' Polly's veil 'n' plastered 'em over as fast
as they could get into Mrs. Sweet's. Mrs. Sweet was mighty obligin' 'n' turned two flower-beds
inside out 'n' let every one scoop with her kitchen spoons, besides runnin' aroun' herself
like she was a slave gettin' paid. They took the deacon 'n' Polly right to their own house.
They can't see one another anyhow, 'n' they was most all married anyway, so it did n't seem
worth while to wait till the minister gets the use of his upper lip again."

"Why--" interrogated Mrs. Lathrop.

"Young Dr. Brown wanted to," said Susan, "he wanted to fill my ears with mud, 'n' my eye, too,
but I did n't feel to have it done. You can't die o' wasps' bills, 'n' you can o' young Dr.
Brown's--leastways when you ain't got no money to pay 'em, like I ain't got just at present."

"It 's--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes," said Susan, "it struck me that way, too. This seems to be a very unlucky town. Anything
as comes seems to catch us all in a bunch. The cow most lamed the whole community 'n' the automobile
most broke its back; time 'll tell what 'll be the result o' these wasps, but there won't be
no church Sunday for one thing, I know.

"'N' it ain't the least o' my woes, Mrs. Lathrop, to think as I 've got to sit 'n' smile on
Mr. Weskin to-night from between two such ears as is on me, for a man is a man, 'n' it can't
be denied as a woman as is mainly ears ain't beguilin'. Besides, I may in confidence state
to you, Mrs. Lathrop, as the one as buzzed aroun' my head wa'n't really no wasp a tall in comparison
to the one as got under my skirts."

Mrs. Lathrop's eyes were full of sincere condolence; she did not even imagine a smile as she
gazed upon her afflicted friend.

"I must go," said the latter, rising with a groan, "seems like I never will reach the bottom
o' my troubles this year. I keep thinkin' there's nothin' left 'n' then I get a wasp at each
end at once. Well, I 'll come over when Mr. Weskin goes--if I have strength."

Then she limped home.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was about nine that night that she returned and pounded vigorously on her friend's window-pane.
Mrs. Lathrop woke from her rocker-nap, went to the window and opened it. Susan stood below
and the moon illuminated her smile and her ears with its most silvery beams.

"He 's just gone!" she announced.

"Yes," said Mrs. Lathrop, rubbing her eyes.

"He's gone; I come over to tell you."

"What--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"I would n't care if my ears was as big as a elephant's now."

"Why--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Mrs. Lathrop, you know as I took them bonds straight after father died 'n' locked 'em up 'n'
I ain't never unlocked 'em since?"

Mrs. Lathrop assented with a single rapt nod.

"Well, when I explained to Mr. Weskin as I 'd got to have money 'n' how was the best way to
sell a bond, he just looked at me, 'n' what do you think he said--what do you think he said,
Mrs. Lathrop?"

Mrs. Lathrop hung far out over the window-sill--her gaze was the gaze of the ever earnest and
interested.

Susan stood below. Her face was aglow with the joy of the affluent--her very voice might have
been for once entitled as silvery.

"He said, Mrs. Lathrop, he said, 'Miss Clegg, why don't you go down to the bank and cut your
coupons?'"

       *       *       *       *       *

                          A VERY SUPERIOR MAN

Miss Clegg sat in Mrs. Lathrop's rocking-chair, on Mrs. Lathrop's kitchen stoop. Mrs. Lathrop
sat at her friend's feet, picking over currants. If she picked over a great many she intended
making jelly; if only a few, the result was to be a pie.

Susan had on her bonnet and mitts and held her sun-umbrella firmly gripped between her two
hands and her two knees. She looked weary and worn.

"It seems kind o' funny that I bothered to go, now that I come to think it over," she said,
gazing meditatively down upon her friend and her friend's currant-picking; "I wa'n't no relation
of Rufus Timmans, 'n' although I don't deny as it 's always a pleasure to go to any one's funeral,
still it's a long ways to Meadville, 'n' the comin' back was most awful, not to speak o' havin'
no dinner nowhere. It never makes no one brisk but a horse to go without eatin', 'n' I must
in consequence say 't I was really very sorry as Rufus was dead durin' the last part of the
drive; but o' course he was a very superior man, 'n' as a consequence nobody wanted to have
it said in after life as they wa'n't to his buryin'. So I went along with the rest, 'n' Heaven
help me now, for I never was more beat out in all my life. I was up awful early this mornin'
to be sure o' not bein' left, 'n' I may in confidence remark as I 've thought many times to-day
as if I had been left I 'd of been a sight better off. Long rides is very frisky for them as
is young 'n' in love 'n' likes to drive alternate, but for a woman o' my age, bein' wedged
solid for sixteen miles at a time is most tryin'; 'n' comin' back some o' them smart Meadville
boys had the fine idea o' puttin' walnuts under the seats, 'n' we rode most of the way thinkin'
as they was our bones till Mr. Dill jus' got up 'n' whopped his cushion over to see if it 'd
feel any different the other side, 'n' I may state as the results I shall remember till I die."

"Who--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"Everybody!" said Susan; "I never knowed how superior Rufus was till I see how folks turned
out for his funeral. Every minister 'n' doctor in the whole vicinity was there. The Lumbs drove
way up from Clightville, got overturned in the brook by the old knife factory, but come along
just the same. Old Mr. 'n' Mrs. Trumbull started day before yesterday as soon as they knowed
he was dead 'n' ate with relations all the way along 'n' got them to come too whenever they
could. They was seven buggies 'n' two democrats when they arrived at last. Mrs. Macy was waitin'
for me in the square when I got there this mornin' 'n' she told me as a city reporter had come
up to write a account of it 'n' as Dr. Cogswell was goin' to be there. They say as a live bishop
wanted to make the prayer but Rufus was so advanced in his views it seemed better not to come
out too strong over his dead body. Mrs. Macy said it all showed what a very superior man he
was. She says as she feels as maybe we did n't appreciate him enough. She says maybe we was
prejudiced. Lord knows it's very hard not to be prejudiced agin' the folks you live among,
'n' I guess any one as see Rufus mildly stumblin' around losin' pocket-handkerchiefs 'd of
had a hard time regardin' him as superior; but he was superior, 'n' Mrs. Macy says he always
was superior, for her aunt, old Mrs. Kitts, of Meadville, remembers when he was born, 'n' Mrs.
Macy says Mrs. Kitts always says as he was superior right from the start. She says as Mrs.
Kitts says as Rufus's father was really 'most a nuisance, talkin' about his superiority even
the very first week he was born. Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Kitts says that his father said right
off the day he was born, as to his order o' thinkin' Rufus was different from other babies
right then 'n' there. He told Mrs. Kitts hisself as he knowed folks was often fools over their
first babies, 'n' he did n't calcalate to act no such part, but in common honesty he must state
as Rufus was 'way above the ordinary run, not because he was his baby, but just because it
was the plain truth. Mrs. Kitts said she see Rufus herself when he wa'n't but three days old,
'n' she told Mrs. Macy as she must in truth confess as he looked then jus' about as he always
looked--kind of too awful wise to have any sense a tall. Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Kitts says the
superior thing about Rufus them first days was the way as his mother looked on him. Mrs. Kitts
says Tabitha Timmans was a mos' remarkable woman, straight up her back 'n' all in 'n' out in
front--one o' them women as is most all teeth--front teeth, 'n' Mrs. Kitts said whenever she
looked at Rufus she was all back teeth too. They had him in a clothes-basket to keep off draughts,
with a quilt to pervent changes in the weather, 'n' a mosquito-nettin' for fear a fly might
thaw out unexpectedly 'n' get near him. Mrs. Kitts said Tabitha Timmans was just about wild
over him; she told Mrs. Kitts she felt it gallopin' up 'n' down her spine as how Rufus was
surely goin' to grow up to be a inspector--or mebbe the president; she said any one could see
he was in for bein' suthin' high up 'n' sort o' quiet 'n' important. Tilda Ann, Sammy Timmans's
aunt, was there too. Mrs. Kitts says she always liked Tilda Ann, what little she see of her,
even if she was n't patient. Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Kitts says Tilda Ann never had no real fault,
only her never bein' able to be patient. She says if Tilda Ann had only had a little patience
it 'd of been a great deal better for her in the end, for if Tilda Ann 'd had a little more
patience she 'd never have come scurryin' home cross-lots that night in the fog 'n' gone hickety-pickety
over the well-curb, thinkin' it was a stone wall. Mrs. Kitts says she never can help considerin'
what a shock Tilda Ann must have got when she realized as she was over, 'n' so was everythin'
else."

"My--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"But she was alive then," continued Susan, "'n' she was there takin' care o' Tabitha 'n' watchin'
over Rufus. Mrs. Kitts said it did n't take much to see as Tilda Ann had n't no particular
admiration for Rufus; she said right then 'n' there, as to her order o' thinkin,' Tabitha 'd
ought to teach him to quit suckin' his thumb right off,--she said as it was a most terrible
job when they got bigger. Mrs. Kitts said Tabitha said as not many babies was smart enough
to suck their thumbs at Rufus's age, 'n' then Tilda Ann said as not many mothers was fool enough
to let 'em. Mrs. Kitts said Tilda Ann was never one to mince words. She always said jus' what
she thought, 'n' that was a very bad thing for her too, for afore she died she 'd said jus'
what she thought to so many people that they had great difficulty gettin' a party together
to hunt for her that day as she turned up missin' on a'count of bein' down in the well.

"While we was talkin'--Mrs. Macy 'n' me--up Gran'ma Mullins come 'n' it turned out from her
as we was all three expected to squeeze over to Meadville on Mr. Jilkins's back seat together.
Mrs. Macy 'n' me was far from pleased at that prospeck, 'n' Gran'ma Mullins did n't look over
rejoiced herself. There is them as can wedge, 'n' them as can't, 'n' we was all three the kind
as can't. I ain't as wide as Mrs. Macy, nor yet the soft and squashy kind like Gran'ma Mullins,
but I will say, Mrs. Lathrop, as bein' overflowed around for sixteen miles, is to my order
o' thinkin' full as tryin' as to be overflowin' aroun' somebody else."

"I--" said Mrs. Lathrop, mildly.

"No, you would n't either," said Susan, "I know you better 'n you know yourself, Mrs. Lathrop,
for I know you asleep 'n' awake, 'n' you only know yourself awake; not as asleep 'n' awake
is n't very much the same thing with you, Mrs. Lathrop; but asleep or awake, the main fact
is as I know most, so you can just keep still till I get done with what I 'm sayin'."

Mrs. Lathrop kept still.

