SIMON'S PAPA

   PAUL'S MISTRESS

   THE RABBIT

   THE TWENTY-FIVE FRANCS OF THE MOTHER SUPERIOR

   THE VENUS OF BRANIZA

   LA MORILLONNE

   WAITER, A "BOCK"

   REGRET

   THE PORT

   THE HERMIT

   THE ORDERLY

   DUCHOUX

   OLD AMABLE

   MAGNETISM

THE OLD MAID

Count Eustache d'Etchegorry's solitary country house had the appearance of a poor man's home,
where people do not have enough to eat every day in the week, where the bottles are more frequently
filled at the pump than in the cellar, and where they wait until it is dark before lighting
the candles.

It was an old and sordid building; the walls were crumbling to pieces, the grated, iron gates
were eaten away by rust, the holes in the broken windows had been mended with old newspapers,
and the ancestral portraits which hung against the walls, showed that it was no tiller of the
soil, nor miserable laborer whose strength had gradually worn out and bent his back, who lived
there. Great, knotty elm trees sheltered it, as if they had been a tall, green screen, and
a large garden, full of wild rose-trees and of straggling plants, as well as of sickly-looking
vegetables, which sprang up half-withered from the sandy soil, went down as far as the bank
of the river.

From the house, one could hear the monotonous sound of the water, which at one time rushed
yellow and impetuous towards the sea, and then again flowed back, as if driven by some invisible
force towards the town which could be seen in the distance, with its pointed spires, its ramparts,
and its ships at anchor by the side of the quay, and its citadel built on the top of a hill.

A strong smell of the sea came from the offing, mingled with the resinous smell of pine logs,
and of the large nets with great pieces of sea-weed clinging to them, which were drying in the sun.

Why had Monsieur d'Etchegorry, who did not like the country, who was of a sociable rather than
of a solitary nature, for he never walked alone, but kept step with the retired officers who
lived there, and frequently played game after game at piquet at the café, when he was in town,
buried himself in such a solitary place, by the side of a dusty road at Boucau, a village close
to the town, where on Sundays the soldiers took off their tunics, and sat in their shirt sleeves
in the public-houses, drank the thin wine of the country, and teased the girls.

What secret reasons had he for selling the mansion which he had possessed at Bayonne, close
to the bishop's palace, and condemning his daughter, a girl of nineteen, to such a dull, listless,
solitary life; counting the minutes far from everybody, as if she had been a nun, no one knew,
but most people said that he had lost immense sums in gambling, and had wasted his fortune
and ruined his credit in doubtful speculations. They wondered whether he still regretted the
tender, sweet woman whom he had lost, who died one evening, after years of suffering, like
a church lamp whose oil has been consumed to the last drop. Was he seeking for perfect oblivion,
for that soothing repose in nature, in which a man becomes enervated, and which envelopes him
like a moist, warm cloth? How could he be satisfied with such an existence? With the bad cooking,
and the careless, untidy ways of a char-woman, and with the shabby clothes, that were discolored
by use!

His numerous relations had been anxious about it at first, and had tried to cure him of his
apparent hypochondria, and to persuade him to employ himself with something, but as he was
obstinate, avoided them, rejected their friendly offers with arrogance and self-sufficiency,
even his brothers had abandoned him, and almost renounced him. All their affection had been
transferred to the poor child who shared his solitude, and who endured all that wretchedness
with the resignation of a saint. Thanks to them, she had a few gleams of pleasure in their
exile, and was not dressed like a beggar girl, but received invitations, and appeared here
and there at some ball, concert or tennis party, and the girl was extremely grateful to them
for it all, although she would much have preferred that nobody should have held out a helping
hand to her, but have left her to her dull life, without any day dreams or homesickness, so
that she might grow used to her lot, and day by day lose all that remained to her of her pride
of race and of her youth.

With her sensitive and proud mind, she felt that she was treated exactly like others were in
society, that people showed her either too much pity or too much indifference, that they knew
all about her side life of undeserved poverty, and that in the folds of her muslin dress they
could smell the mustiness of her home. If she was animated, or buoyed up with secret hopes
in her heart, if there was a smile on her lips, and her eyes were bright when she went out
at the gate, and the horses carried her off to town at a rapid trot, she was all the more low-spirited
and tearful when she returned home, and she used to shut herself up in her room and find fault
with her destiny, declared to herself that she would imitate her father, show relations and
friends politely out, with a passive and resigned gesture, and make herself so unpleasant and
embarrassing that they would grow tired of it in the end, leave long intervals between their
visits, and finally would not come to see her at all, but would turn away from her, as if from
a hospital where incurable patients were dying.

Nevertheless, the older the count grew, the more the supplies in the small country house diminished,
and the more painful and harder existence became. If a morsel of bread was left uneaten on
the table, if an unexpected dish was served up at table, if she put a piece of ribbon into
her hair, he used to heap violent, spiteful reproaches on her, torrents of rage which defile
the mouth, and violent threats like those of a madman, who is tormented by some fixed idea.
Monsieur d'Etchegorry had dismissed the servant and engaged a char-woman, whom he intended
to pay, merely by small sums on account, and he used to go to market with a basket on his arm.

He locked up every morsel of food, used to count the lumps of sugar and charcoal, and bolted
himself in all day long in a room that was larger than the rest, and which for a long time
had served as a drawing-room. At times he would be rather more gentle, as if he were troubled
by vague thoughts, and used to say to his daughter, in an agonized voice, and trembling all
over: "You will never ask me for any accounts, I say?... You will never demand your mother's
fortune?"

She always gave him the required promise, did not worry him with any questions, nor give vent
to any complaints, and thinking of her cousins, who would have good dowries, who were growing
up happily and peacefully, amidst careful and affectionate surroundings and beautiful old furniture,
who were certain to be loved, and to get married some day, and she asked herself why fate was
so cruel to some, and so kind to others, and what she had done to deserve such disfavor.

Marie-des-Anges d'Etchegorry, without being absolutely pretty, possessed all the charm of her
age, and everybody liked her. She was as tall and slim as a lily, with beautiful, fine, soft
fair hair, eyes of a dark, undecided color, which reminded one of those springs in the depths
of the forests, in which a ray of the sun is but rarely reflected--mirrors which changed now
to violet, then to the color of leaves, but most frequently of a velvety blackness--and her
whole being exhaled a freshness of childhood, and something that could not be described, but
which was pleasant, wholesome and frank.

She lived on through a long course of years, growing old, faithful to the man who might have
given her his name, honorable, having resisted temptations and snares, worthy of the motto
which used to be engraved on the tombs of Roman matrons before the Cæsars: "She spun wool,
and kept at home."

When she was just twenty-one, Marie-des-Anges fell in love, and her beautiful, dark, restless
eyes for the first time became illuminated with a look of dreamy happiness. For someone seemed
to have noticed her; he waltzed with her more frequently than he did with the other girls,
spoke to her in a low voice, dangled at her petticoats, and discomposed her so much, that she
flushed deeply as soon as she heard the sound of his voice.

His name was André de Gèdrè; he had just returned from Sénégal, where after several months
of daily fighting in the desert, he had won his sub-lieutenant's epaulets.

With his thin, surnburnt, yellow face, looking awkward in his tight coat, in which his broad
shoulders could not distend themselves comfortably, and in which his arms, which had formerly
been used to cut right and left, were cramped in their tight sleeves, he looked like one of
those pirates of old, who used to scour the seas, pillaging, killing, hanging their prisoners
to the yard-arms, who were ready to engage a whole fleet, and who returned to the port laden
with booty, and occasionally with waifs and strays picked up at sea.

He belonged to a race of buccaneers or of heroes, according to the breeze which swelled his
sails and carried him North or South. Over head and ears in debt, reduced to discounting doubtful
legacies, to gambling at Casinos, and to mortgaging the few acres of land that he had remaining
at much below their value, he nevertheless managed to make a pretty good figure in his hand
to mouth existence; he never gave in, never showed the blows that he had received, and waited
for the last struggle in a state of blissful inactivity, while he sought for renewed strength
and philosophy from the caressing lips of women.

Marie-des-Anges seemed to him to be a toy which he could do with as he liked. She had the flavor
of unripe fruit; left to herself, and sentimental as she was, she would only offer a very brief
resistance to his attacks, and would soon yield to his will, and when he was tired of her and
threw her off, she would bow to the inevitable, and would not worry him with violent scenes,
nor stand in his way, with threats on her lips. And so he was kind, and used to wheedle her,
and by degrees enveloped her in the meshes of a net, which continually hemmed her in closer
and closer. He gained entire possession of her heart and confidence, and without expressing
any wish or making any promises, managed so to establish his influence over her, that she did
nothing but what he wished.

Long before Monsieur de Gèdrè had addressed any passionate words to her, or any avowal which
immediately introduces warmth and danger into a flirtation, Marie-des-Anges had betrayed herself
with the candor of a little girl, who does not think she is doing any wrong, and cannot hide
what she thinks, what she is dreaming about, and the tenderness which lies hidden at the bottom
of her heart, and she no longer felt that horror of life which had formerly tortured her. She
no longer felt herself alone, as she had done formerly--so alone, so lost, even among her own
people, that everything had become indifferent to her.

It was very pleasant and soothing to love and to think that she was loved, to have a furtive
and secret understanding with another heart, to imagine that he was thinking of her at the
same time that she was thinking of him, to shelter herself timidly under his protection, to
feel more unhappy each time she left him, and to experience greater happiness every time they met.

She wrote him long letters, which she did not venture to send him when they were written, for
she was timid and feared that he would make fun of them, and she sang the whole day through,
like a lark that is intoxicated with the sun, so that Monsieur d'Etchegorry scarcely recognized
her any longer.

Soon they made appointments together in some secluded spot, meeting for a few minutes in the
aisles of the cathedral and behind the ramparts, or on the promenade of the Alleés-Marinès,
which was always dark, on account of the dense foliage.

And at last, one evening in June, when the sky was so studded with stars that it might have
been taken for a triumphal route of some sovereign, strewn with precious stones and rare flowers,
Monsieur de Gèdrè went into the large, neglected garden.

Marie-des-Anges was waiting for him in a somber walk with witch elms on either side and listening
for the least noise, looking at the closed windows of the house, and nearly fainting, as much
from fear as from happiness. They spoke in a low voice. She was close to him and he must have
heard the beating of her heart, into which he had cast the first seeds of love, and he put
his arms around her and clasped her gently, as if she had been some little bird that he was
afraid of hurting, but which he did not wish to allow to escape.

She no longer knew what she was doing, but was in a state of entire intense, supreme happiness.
She shivered, and yet something burning seemed to permeate her whole being under her skin,
from the nape of her neck to her feet, like a stream of burning spirit, and she would not have
had the strength to disengage herself or to take a step forward, so she leant her head instinctively
and very tenderly against André's shoulder. He kissed her hair, touched her forehead with his
lips, and at last put them against hers. The girl felt as if she were going to die, and remained
inert and motionless, with her eyes full of tears.

He came nearly every evening for two months. She had not the courage to repel him and to speak
to him seriously of the future, and could not understand why he had not yet asked her father
for her hand and had not fulfilled his former promises, until, one Sunday, as she was coming
from High Mass, walking on before her cousins, Marie-des-Anges heard the following words, from
a group in which André was standing, and he was the speaker: "Oh! no," he said, "you are altogether
mistaken; I should never do anything so foolish.... One does not marry a girl without a halfpenny;
one takes her for one's mistress."

The unhappy girl mastered her feelings, went down the steps of the porch quite steadily, but
feeling utterly crushed, as if by the news of some terrible disaster, and joined the servant,
who was waiting for her, to accompany her back to Boucau. The effects of what she had heard
were to give her a serious illness and for some time she hovered between life and death, consumed
and wasted by a violent fever; and when after a fortnight's suffering, she grew convalescent,
and looked at herself in the glass, she recoiled, as if she had been face to face with an apparition,
for there was nothing left of her former self.

Her eyes were dull, her cheeks pale and hollow, and there were white streaks in her silky,
light hair. Why had she not succumbed to her illness? Why had destiny reserved her for such
a trial, and increased her unhappy lot, that of disappointed hopes, thus? But when that rebellious
feeling was over, she accepted her cross, fell into a state of ardent devotion and became crystallized
in the torpor of an old woman, tried with all her might to rid her memory of any recollections
that had become incrusted in it, and to put a thick black veil between herself and the past.

She never walked in the garden now, and never went to Bayonne, and she would have liked to
have choked herself, and to have beaten herself, when, in spite of her efforts and of her will,
she remembered her lost happiness, and when some sensual feeling and a longing for past pleasures
agitated her body afresh.

That lasted for four years, which finished her and altogether destroyed her good looks and
she had the figure and the appearance of an old maid, when her father suddenly died, just as
he was going to sit down to dinner; and when the lawyer, who was summoned immediately, had
ransacked the cupboards and drawers, discovered a mass of securities, of bank-notes, and of
gold, which Count d'Etchegorry, who was eaten up with avarice, had amassed eagerly, and hidden
away, it was found that Mademoiselle Marie-des-Anges, who was his sole heiress, possessed an
income of fifty thousand francs.

She received the news without any emotion, for of what use was such a fortune to her now, and
what should she do with it? Her eyes, alas! had been too much opened by all the tears that
had fallen from them for her to delude herself with visionary hopes, and her heart had been
too cruelly wounded to warm itself by lying illusions, and she was seized by melancholy when
she thought that in future she would be coveted, she who had been kept at arm's length, as
if she had been a leper; that men would come after her money with odious impatience, that now
that she was worn out and ugly, tired of everything and everybody, she would most certainly
have plenty of suitors to refuse, and that perhaps he would come back to her, attracted by
that amount of money, like a hawk hovering over its prey, that he would try to re-kindle the
dead cinders, to revive some spark in them and to obtain pardon for his cowardice.

Oh! With what bitter pleasure she could have thrown those millions into the road to the ragged
beggars, or scattered them about like manna to all who were suffering and dying of hunger,
and who had neither roof nor hearth! She naturally soon became the target at which everyone
aimed, the goal for which all those who had formerly disdained her most, now eagerly tried.

Monsieur de Gèdrè was not long before he was in the ranks of her suitors, as she had foreseen,
and caused her that last heart-burning of seeing him humble, kneeling at her feet, acting a
comedy, trying every means of overcoming her resistance, and to regain possession of that heart,
which was closed against him, after having been entirely his, in all its adorable virginity.

And Marie-des-Anges had loved him so deeply that his letters in which he recalled the past,
and stirred up all the recollections of their love, their kisses, and their dreams, softened
her in spite of herself, and came across her profound, incurable sadness, like a factitious
light, the reflection of a bonfire, which, from a distance, illuminates a prison cell for a moment.

He was poor himself and had not wished, so he said, to drag her into his life of privation
and shifts, and she thought to herself that perhaps he had been right; and thus sensibly, like
a mother or an elder sister, who has become indulgent and wishes to close her eyes and her
ears against everything, to forgive again, to forgive always, she excused him, and tried to
remember nothing but those months of tenderness and of ecstacy, those months of happiness,
and that he had been the first, the only man who, in the course of her unhappy, wasted life,
had given her a moment's peace, had caused her to dream, and had made her happy, and youthful
and loving.

He had been charitable towards her and she would be so a hundred fold towards him; and so she
grew happy again, when she said to herself that she would be his benefactress, that even with
his hard heart, he could not accept the sacrifice from a woman, who, like so many others, might
have returned him evil for evil, but who preferred to be kind and maternal, after having been
in love with him, without some feelings of gratitude and emotion.

And that resolution transfigured her, restored to her temporarily, something of her youth,
which had so soon fled away, and a poor, heroic saint amongst all the saints, she took refuge
in a Carmelite convent, so as to escape from this returning temptation, and to bequeath everything
of which she could lawfully dispose, to Monsieur de Gèdrè.

THE AWAKENING

During the three years that she had been married, she had not left the Val de Ciré, where her
husband possessed two cotton-mills. She led a quiet life, and although she had no children,
she was quite happy in her house among the trees, which the work-people called the château.

Although Monsieur Vasseur was considerably older than she was, he was very kind. She loved
him, and no guilty thought had ever entered her mind.

Her mother came and spent every summer at Ciré, and then returned to Paris for the winter,
as soon as the leaves began to fall.

Jeanne coughed a little every autumn, for the narrow valley through which the river wound,
grew foggy for five months. First of all, slight mists hung over the meadows, making all the
low-lying ground look like a large pond, out of which the roof of the houses rose.

Then that white vapor, which rose like a tide, enveloped everything, and turned the valley
into a land of phantoms, through which men moved about like ghosts, without recognizing each
other ten yards off, and the trees, wreathed in mist, and dripping with moisture, rose up through
it.

But the people who went along the neighboring hills, and who looked down upon the deep, white
depression of the valley, saw the two huge chimneys of Monsieur Vasseur's factories, rising
above the mist below. Day and night they vomited forth two long trails of black smoke, and
that alone indicated that people were living in that hollow, which looked as if it were filled
with a cloud of cotton.

That year, when October came, the medical men advised the young woman to go and spend the winter
in Paris with her mother, as the air of the valley was dangerous for her weak chest, and she
went. For a month or so, she thought continually of the house which she had left, to which
she seemed rooted, and whose well-known furniture and quiet ways she loved so much, but by
degrees she grew accustomed to her new life, and got to liking entertainments, dinners and
evening parties, and balls.

Till then, she had retained her girlish manners, she had been undecided and rather sluggish;
she walked languidly, and had a tired smile, but now she became animated and merry, and was
always ready for pleasure. Men paid her marked attentions, and she was amused at their talk,
and made fun of their gallantries, as she felt sure that she could resist them, for she was
rather disgusted with love, from what she had learned of it in marriage.

The idea of giving up her body to the coarse caresses of such bearded creatures, made her laugh
with pity, and shudder a little with ignorance.

She asked herself how women could consent to those degrading contacts with strangers, as they
were already obliged to endure them with their legitimate husbands. She would have loved her
husband much more if they had lived together like two friends, and had restricted themselves
to chaste kisses, which are the caresses of the soul.

But she was much amused by their compliments, by the desire which showed itself in their eyes,
and which she did not share, by their declarations of love, which they whispered into her ear
as they were returning to the drawing-room after some grand dinner, by their words, which were
murmured so low that she almost had to guess them, and which left her blood quite cool, and
her heart untouched, while they gratified her unconscious coquetry, while they kindled a flame
of pleasure within her, and while they made her lips open, her eyes glow bright, and her woman's
heart, to which homage was due, quiver with delight.

She was fond of those tête-à-têtes when it was getting dusk, when a man grows pressing, stammers,
trembles and falls on his knees. It was a delicious and new pleasure to her to know that they
felt that passion which left her quite unmoved, to say no, by a shake of the head, and with
her lips, to withdraw her hands, to get up and calmly ring for lights, and to see the man who
had been trembling at her feet, get up, confused and furious when he heard the footman coming.

She often had a hard laugh, which froze the most burning words, and said harsh things, which
fell like a jet of icy water on the most ardent protestations, while the intonations of her
voice were enough to make any man who really loved her, kill himself, and there were two especially
who made obstinate love to her, although they did not at all resemble one another.

One of them, Paul Péronel, was a tall man of the world, gallant and enterprising, a man who
was accustomed to successful love affairs, and who knew how to wait, and when to seize his
opportunity.

The other, Monsieur d'Avancelle, quivered when he came near her, scarcely ventured to express
his love, but followed her like a shadow, and gave utterance to his hopeless desire by distracted
looks, and the assiduity of his attentions to her, and she made him a kind of slave who followed
her steps, and whom she treated as if he had been her servant.

She would have been much amused if anybody had told her that she would love him, and yet she
did love him, after a singular fashion. As she saw him continually, she had grown accustomed
to his voice, to his gestures, and to his manner, as one grows accustomed to those with whom
one meets continually. Often his face haunted her in her dreams, and she saw him as he really
was; gentle, delicate in all his actions, humble, but passionately in love, and she awoke full
of those dreams, fancying that she still heard him, and felt him near her, until one night
(most likely she was feverish), she saw herself alone with him in a small wood, where they
were both of them sitting on the grass. He was saying charming things to her, while he pressed
and kissed her hands.

She could feel the warmth of his skin and of his breath, and she was stroking his hair, in
a very natural manner.

We are quite different in our dreams to what we are in real life. She felt full of love for
him, full of calm and deep love, and was happy in stroking his forehead and in holding him
against her. Gradually he put his arms round her, kissed her eyes and her cheeks without her
attempting to get away from him; their lips met, and she yielded.

When she saw him again, unconscious of the agitation that he had caused her, she felt that
she grew red, and while he was telling her of his love, she was continually recalling to mind
their previous meeting, without being able to get rid of the recollection.

She loved him, loved him with refined tenderness, which arose chiefly from the remembrance
of her dream, although she dreaded the accomplishment of the desires which had arisen in her mind.

At last, he perceived it, and then she told him everything, even to the dread of his kisses,
and she made him swear that he would respect her, and he did so. They spent long hours of transcendental
love together, during which their souls alone embraced, and when they separated, they were
enervated, weak and feverish.

Sometimes their lips met, and with closed eyes they reveled in that long, yet chaste caress;
she felt, however, that she could not resist much longer, and as she did not wish to yield,
she wrote and told her husband that she wanted to come to him, and to return to her tranquil,
solitary life. But in reply, he wrote her a very kind letter, and strongly advised her not
to return in the middle of the winter, and so expose herself to a sudden change of climate,
and to the icy mists of the valley, and she was thunderstruck, and angry with that confiding
man, who did not guess, who did not understand, the struggles of her heart.

February was a warm, bright month, and although she now avoided being alone with Monsieur Avancelle,
she sometimes accepted his invitation to drive round the lake in the Bois de Boulogne with
him, when it was dusk.

On one of those evenings, it was so warm that it seemed as if the sap in every tree and plant
were rising. Their cab was going at a walk; it was growing dusk, and they were sitting close
together, holding each others' hands, and she said to herself:

"It is all over, I am lost!" for she felt her desires rising in her again, the imperious want
for that supreme embrace, which she had undergone in her dream. Every moment their lips sought
each other, clung together and separated, only to meet again immediately.

He did not venture to go into the house with her, but left her at her door, more in love with
him than ever, and half fainting.

Monsieur Paul Péronel was waiting for her in the little drawing-room, without a light, and
when he shook hands with her, he felt how feverish she was. He began to talk in a low, tender
voice, lulling her worn-out mind with the charm of amorous words.

She listened to him without replying, for she was thinking of the other; she thought she was
listening to the other, and thought she felt him leaning against her, in a kind of hallucination.
She saw only him, and did not remember that any other man existed on earth, and when her ears
trembled at those three syllables: "I love you," it was he, the other man, who uttered them,
who kissed her hands, who strained her to his breast, like the other had done shortly before
in the cab. It was he who pressed victorious kisses on her lips, it was his lips, it was he
whom she held in her arms and embraced, whom she was calling to, with all the longings of her
heart, with all the over-wrought ardor of her body.

When she awoke from her dream, she uttered a terrible cry. Captain Fracasse was kneeling by
her, and thanking her, passionately, while he covered her disheveled hair with kisses, and
she almost screamed out: "Go away! go away! go away!"

And as he did not understand what she meant, and tried to put his arm round her waist again,
she writhed, as she stammered out:

"You are a wretch, and I hate you! Go away! go away!" And he got up in great surprise, took
up his hat, and went.

The next day she returned to Val de Ciré, and her husband, who had not expected her for some
time, blamed her for a freak.

"I could not live away from you any longer," she said.

He found her altered in character, and sadder than formerly, but when he said to her:

"What is the matter with you? You seem unhappy. What do you want?" she replied:

"Nothing. Happiness exists only in our dreams, in this world."

Avancelle came to see her the next summer, and she received him without any emotion, and without
regret, for she suddenly perceived that she had never loved him, except in a dream, from which
Paul Péronel had brutally roused her.

But the young man, who still adored her, thought as he returned to Paris:

"Women are really very strange, complicated and inexplicable beings."

IN THE SPRING

When the first fine spring days come, and the earth awakes and assumes its garment of verdure,
when the perfumed warmth of the air blows on our faces and fills our lungs, and even appears
to penetrate to our heart, we feel vague longings for undefined happiness, a wish to run, to
walk at random, to inhale the spring. As the winter had been very severe the year before, this
longing assumed an intoxicating feeling in May; it was like a superabundance of sap.

Well, one morning on waking, I saw from my window the blue sky glowing in the sun above the
neighboring houses. The canaries hanging in the windows were singing loudly, and so were the
servants on every floor; a cheerful noise rose up from the streets, and I went out, with my
spirits as bright as the day was, to go--I did not exactly know where. Everybody I met seemed
to be smiling; an air of happiness appeared to pervade everything, in the warm light of returning
spring. One might almost have said that a breeze of love was blowing through the city, and
the young women whom I saw in the streets in their morning toilettes, in the depths of whose
eyes there lurked a hidden tenderness, and who walked with languid grace, filled my heart with
agitation.

Without knowing how or why, I found myself on the banks of the Seine. Steamboats were starting
for Suresnes, and suddenly I was seized by an unconquerable wish to have a walk through the
woods. The deck of the mouche[1] was crowded with passengers, for the sun in early spring draws
you out of the house, in spite of yourself, and everybody moves about, goes and comes, and
talks to his neighbor.

[Footnote 1: Fly.]

I had a female neighbor; a little work-girl, no doubt, who possessed the true Parisian charm;
a little head, with light curly hair, which looked like frizzed light, came down to her ears
and descended to the nape of her neck, danced in the wind, and then became such fine, such
light-colored down, that one could scarcely see it, but on which one felt an irresistible desire
to impress a shower of kisses.

Under the magnetism of my looks, she turned her head towards me, and then immediately looked
down, while a slight fold, which looked as if she were ready to break out into a smile, also
showed that fine, silky, pale down which the sun was gilding a little.

The calm river grew wider; the atmosphere was warm and perfectly still, but a murmur of life
seemed to fill all space.

My neighbor raised her eyes again, and, this time, as I was still looking at her, she smiled,
decidedly. She was charming like that, and in her passing glance, I saw a thousand things,
which I had hitherto been ignorant of, for I saw unknown depths, all the charm of tenderness,
all the poetry which we dream of, all the happiness which we are continually in search of,
in it. I felt an insane longing to open my arms and to carry her off somewhere, so as to whisper
the sweet music of words of love into her ears.

I was just going to speak to her, when somebody touched me on the shoulder, and when I turned
round in some surprise, I saw an ordinary looking man, who was neither young nor old, and who
gazed at me sadly:

"I should like to speak to you," he said.

I made a grimace, which he no doubt saw, for he added:

"It is a matter of importance."

I got up, therefore, and followed him to the other end of the boat, and then he said:

"Monsieur, when winter comes, with its cold, wet and snowy weather, your doctor says to you
constantly: 'Keep your feet warm, guard against chills, colds, bronchitis, rheumatism and pleurisy.'

"Then you are very careful, you wear flannel, a heavy great coat and thick shoes, but all this
does not prevent you from passing two months in bed. But when spring returns, with its leaves
and flowers, its warm, soft breezes, and its smell of the fields, which cause you vague disquiet
and causeless emotion, nobody says to you:

"Monsieur, beware of love! It is lying in ambush everywhere; it is watching for you at every
corner; all its snares are laid, all its weapons are sharpened, all its guiles are prepared!
Beware of love.... Beware of love. It is more dangerous than brandy, bronchitis, or pleurisy!
It never forgives, and makes everybody commit irreparable follies."

"Yes, Monsieur, I say that the French Government ought to put large public notices on the walls,
with these words: 'Return of Spring. French citizens, beware of love!' just as they put: 'Beware
of paint.'

"However, as the government will not do this, I must supply its place, and I say to you: 'Beware
of love,' for it is just going to seize you, and it is my duty to inform you of it, just as
in Russia they inform anyone that his nose is frozen."

I was much astonished at this individual, and assuming a dignified manner, I said:

"Really, Monsieur, you appear to me to be interfering in a matter which is no business of yours."

He made an abrupt movement, and replied:

"Ah! Monsieur! Monsieur! If I see that a man is in danger of being drowned at a dangerous spot,
ought I to let him perish? So just listen to my story, and you will see why I ventured to speak
to you like this.

"It was about this time last year that it occurred. But, first of all, I must tell you that
I am a clerk in the Admirality, where our chiefs, the commissioners, take their gold lace and
quill-driving officers seriously, and treat us like fore-top men on board a ship. Well, from
my office I could see a small bit of blue sky and the swallows, and I felt inclined to dance
among my portfolios.

"My yearning for freedom grew so intense, that, in spite of my repugnance, I went to see my
chief, who was a short, bad-tempered man, who was always in a rage. When I told him that I
was not well, he looked at me, and said: 'I do not believe it, Monsieur, but be off with you!
Do you think that any office can go on, with clerks like you?' I started at once, and went
down the Seine. It was a day like this, and I took the mouche, to go as far as Saint Cloud.
Ah! What a good thing it would have been if my chief had refused me permission to leave the
office for the day!

"I seemed to myself to expand in the sun. I loved it all; the steamer, the river, the trees,
the houses, my fellow-passengers, everything. I felt inclined to kiss something, no matter
what; it was love, laying its snare. Presently, at the Trocadéro, a girl, with a small parcel
in her hand, came on board and sat down opposite to me. She was certainly pretty; but it is
surprising, Monsieur, how much prettier women seem to us when it is fine, at the beginning
of the spring. Then they have an intoxicating charm, something quite peculiar about them. It
is just like drinking wine after the cheese.

"I looked at her, and she also looked at me, but only occasionally, like that girl did at you,
just now; but at last, by dint of looking at each other constantly, it seemed to me that we
knew each other well enough to enter into conversation, and I spoke to her, and she replied.
She was decidedly pretty and nice, and she intoxicated me, Monsieur!

"She got out at Saint-Cloud, and I followed her. She went and delivered her parcel, and when
she returned, the boat had just started. I walked by her side, and the warmth of the air made
us both sigh. 'It would be very nice in the woods,' I said. 'Indeed, it would!' she replied.
'Shall we go there for a walk, Mademoiselle?'

"She gave me a quick, upward look, as if to see exactly what I was like, and then, after a
little hesitation, she accepted my proposal, and soon we were there, walking side by side.
Under the foliage, which was still rather thin, the tall, thick, bright, green grass, was inundated
by the sun, and full of small insects that also made love to one another, and birds were singing
in all directions. My companion began to jump and to run, intoxicated by the air, and the smell
of the country, and I ran and jumped behind her. How stupid we are at times, Monsieur!

"Then she wildly sang a thousand things; opera airs, and the song of Musette! The song of Musette!
How poetical it seemed to me, then! I almost cried over it. Ah! Those silly songs make us lose
our heads; and, believe me, never marry a woman who sings in the country, especially if she
sings the song of Musette!

"She soon grew tired, and sat down on a grassy slope, and I sat down at her feet, and took
her hands, her little hands, that were so marked with the needle, and that moved me. I said
to myself: 'These are the sacred marks of toil.' Oh! Monsieur, do you know what those sacred
marks of labor mean? They mean all the gossip of the workroom, the whispered blackguardism,
the mind soiled by all the filth that is talked; they mean lost chastity, foolish chatter,
all the wretchedness of daily bad habits, all the narrowness of ideas which belongs to women
of the lower orders, united in the girl whose sacred fingers bear the sacred marks of toil.

"Then we looked into each other's eyes for a long while. Oh! What power a woman's eye has!
How it agitates us, how it invades our very being, takes possession of us, and dominates us.
How profound it seems, how full of infinite promises! People call that looking into each other's
souls! Oh! Monsieur, what humbug! If we could see into each other's souls, we should be more
careful of what we did. However, I was caught, and crazy after her, and tried to take her into
my arms, but she said: 'Paws off!' Then I knelt down, and opened my heart to her, and poured
out all the affection that was suffocating me, on her knees. She seemed surprised at my change
of manner, and gave me a sidelong glance, as if to say: 'Ah! So that is the way women make
a fool of you, old fellow! Very well, we will see. In love, Monsieur, we are all artists, and
women are the dealers.'

"No doubt I could have had her, and I saw my own stupidity later, but what I wanted was not
a woman's person; it was love, it was the ideal. I was sentimental, when I ought to have been
using my time to a better purpose.

"As soon as she had had enough of my declarations of affection, she got up, and we returned
to Saint-Cloud, and I did not leave her until we got to Paris; but she had looked so sad as
we were returning, that at last I asked her what was the matter. 'I am thinking,' she replied,
'that this has been one of those days of which we have but few in life.' And my heart beat
so that it felt as if it would break my ribs.

"I saw her on the following Sunday, and the next Sunday, and every Sunday. I took her to Bougival,
Saint-Germain, Maisons-Lafitte, Poissy; to every suburban resort of lovers.

"The little jade, in turn, pretended to love me, until, at last, I altogether lost my head,
and three months later I married her.

"What can you expect, Monsieur, when a man is a clerk, living alone, without any relations,
or anyone to advise him? One says to oneself: 'How sweet life would be with a wife!'

"And so one gets married, and she calls you names from morning till night, understands nothing,
knows nothing, chatters continually, sings the song of Musette at the top of her voice (oh!
that song of Musette, how tired one gets of it!); quarrels with the charcoal dealer, tells
the porter of all her domestic details, confides all the secrets of her bedroom to the neighbor's
servant, discusses her husband with the trades-people, and has her head so stuffed with such
stupid stories, with such idiotic superstitions, with such extraordinary ideas and such monstrous
prejudices, that I--for what I have said, applies more particularly to myself--shed tears of
discouragement every time I talked to her."

He stopped, as he was rather out of breath, and very much moved, and I looked at him, for I
felt pity for this poor, artless devil, and I was just going to give him some sort of answer,
when the boat stopped. We were at Saint-Cloud.

The little woman who had so taken my fancy, got up in order to land. She passed close to me,
and gave me a side glance and a furtive smile; one of those smiles that drive you mad; then
she jumped on the landing-stage. I sprang forward to follow her, but my neighbor laid hold
of my arm, I shook myself loose, however, whereupon he seized the skirt of my coat, and pulled
me back, exclaiming:

"You shall not go! You shall not go!" in such a loud voice, that everybody turned round and
laughed, and I remained standing motionless and furious, but without venturing to face scandal
and ridicule, and the steamboat started.

The little woman on the landing-stage looked at me as I went off with an air of disappointment,
while my persecutor rubbed his hands, and whispered to me:

"I have done you a great service, you must acknowledge."

THE JENNET

Every time he held an inspection on the review ground, General Daumont de Croisailles was sure
of a small success, and of receiving a whole packet of letters from women the next day.

Some were almost illegible, scribbled on paper with a love emblem at the top, by some sentimental
milliner; the others ardent, as if saturated with curry, letters which excited him, and suggested
the delights of kisses to him.

Among them, also, there were some which evidently came from a woman of the world, who was tired
of her monotonous life, had lost her head, and let her pen run on, without exactly knowing
what she was writing, with those mistakes in spelling here and there which seemed to be in
unison with the disordered beating of her heart.

He certainly looked magnificent on horseback; there was something of the fighter, something
bold and mettlesome about him, a valiant look, as our grandmothers used to say, when they threw
themselves into the arms of the conquerors, between two campaigns, though the same conquerors
had loud, rough voices, even when they were making love, as they had to dominate the noise
of the firing, and violent gestures, as if they were using their swords and issuing orders,
who did not waste time over useless refinements, and in squandering the precious hours which
were counted so avariciously, in minor caresses, but sounded the charge immediately, and made
the assault, without meeting with any more resistance than they did from a redoubt.

As soon as he appeared, preceded by dragoons, with his sword in his hand, amidst the clatter
of hoofs and jingle of scabbards and bridles, while plumes waved and uniforms glistened in
the sun, a little in front of his staff, sitting perfectly upright in the saddle, and with
his cocked hat with its black plumes, slightly on one side, the surging crowd, which was kept
in check by the police officers, cheered him as if he had been some popular minister, whose
journey had been given notice of beforehand by posters and proclamations.

That tumult of strident voices that went from one end of the great square to the other, which
was prolonged like the sound of the rising tide, which beats against the shore with ceaseless
noise, that rattle of rifles, and the sound of the music that alternated with blasts of the
trumpets all along the line, made the General's heart swell with unspeakable pride.

He attudinized in spite of himself, and thought of nothing but ostentation, and of being noticed.
He continually touched his horse with his spurs, and worried it, so as to make it appear restive,
and to prance and rear, to champ its bit, and to cover it with foam, and then he would continue
his inspection, galloping from regiment to regiment with a satisfied smile, while the good
old infantry captains, sitting on their thin Arab horses, with their toes well stuck out, said
to one another:

"I should not like to have to ride a confounded, restive brute like that, I know!"

But the General's aide-de-camp, little Jacques de Montboron, could easily have reassured them,
for he knew those famous thoroughbreds, as he had had to break them in, and had received a
thousand trifling instructions about them.

They were generally more or less spavined brutes, which he had bought at Tattersall's auctions
for a ridiculous price, and so quiet and well in hand that they might have been held with a
silk thread, but with a good shape, bright eyes, and coats that glistened like silk. They seemed
to know their part, and stepped out, pranced and reared, and made way for themselves, as if
they had just come out of the riding-school at Saumur.

That was his daily task, his obligatory service.

He broke them in, one after another, and transformed them into veritable mechanical horses,
accustomed them to bear the noise of trumpets and drums, and of firing, without starting, tired
them out by long rides the evening before every review, and bit his lips to prevent himself
from laughing when people declared that General Daumont de Croisailles was a first-rate rider,
who was really fond of danger.

A rider! That was almost like writing history! But the aide-de-camp discreetly kept up the
illusion, outdid the others in flattery, and related unheard-of feats of the General's horsemanship.

And, after all, breaking in horses was not more irksome than carrying on a monotonous and dull
correspondence about the buttons on the gaiters, or than thinking over projects of mobilization,
or than going through accounts in which he lost himself like in a labyrinth. He had not, from
the very first day that he entered the military academy at Saint-Cyr, learned that sentence
which begins the rules of the Interior Service, in vain:

"As discipline constitutes the principal strength of an army, it is very important for every
superior to obtain absolute respect, and instant obedience from his inferiors."

He did not resist, but accustomed himself thus to become a sort of Monsieur Loyal, spoke to
his chief in the most flattering manner, and reckoned on being promoted over the heads of his
fellow officers.

General Daumont de Croisailles was not married and did not intend to disturb the tranquillity
of his bachelor life as long as he lived, for he loved all women, whether they were dark, fair
or red-haired, too passionately to love only one, who would grow old, and worry him with useless
complaints.

Gallant, as they used to be called in the good old days, he kissed the hands of those women
who refused him their lips, and as he did not wish to compromise his dignity, and be the talk
of the town, he had rented a small house just outside it.

It was close to the canal, in a quiet street with courtyards and shady gardens, and as nothing
is less amusing than the racket of jealous husbands, or the brawling of excited women who are
disputing or raising their voices in lamentation, and as it is always necessary to foresee
some unfortunate incident or other in the amorous life, some unlucky mishap, some absurdly
imprudent action, some forgotten love appointment, the house had five different doors.

So discreet, that he reassured even the most timid, and certainly not given to melancholy,
he understood extremely well how to vary his kisses and his ways of proceeding; how to work
on women's feelings, and to overcome their scruples, to obtain a hold over them through their
curiosity to learn something new, by the temptation of a comfortable, well-furnished, warm
room, that was fragrant with flowers, and where a little supper was already served as a prologue
to the entertainment. His female pupils would certainly have deserved the first prize in a
love competition.

So men mistrusted that ancient Lovelace as if he had been the plague, when they had plucked
some rare and delicious fruit, and had sketched out some charming adventure, for he always
managed to discover the weak spot, and to penetrate into the place.

To some, he held out the lure of debauch without any danger attached to it, the desire of finishing
their amorous education, of reveling in perverted enjoyment, and to others he held out the
irresistible argument that seduced Danae, that of gold.

Others, again, were attracted by his cocked hat and feathers, and by the conceited hope of
seeing him at their knees, of throwing their arms round him as if he had been an ordinary lover,
although he was a general who rode so imposingly, who was covered with decorations, and to
whom all the regiments presented arms simultaneously, the chief whose orders could not be commented
on or disputed, and who had such a martial and haughty look.

His pay, allowances and his private income of fifteen thousand francs,[2] all went in this
way, like water that runs out drop by drop, from a cracked bottle.

[Footnote 2: £600.]

He was continually on the alert, and looked out for intrigues with the acuteness of a policeman,
followed women about, had all the impudence and all the cleverness of the fast man who has
made love for forty years, without ever meaning anything serious, who knows all its lies, tricks
and illusions, and who can still do a march without halting on the road, or requiring too much
music to put him in proper trim. And in spite of his age and gray hairs, he could have given
a sub-lieutenant points, and was very often loved for himself, which is the dream of men who
have passed forty, and do not intend to give up the game just yet.

And there were not a dozen in the town who could, without lying, have declared to a jealous
husband or a suspicious lover, that they had not, at any rate, once staid late in the little
house in the Eglisottes quarter, who could have denied that they had not returned more thoughtful.
Not a dozen, certainly, and, perhaps, not six!

Among that dozen or six, however, was Jacques de Montboron's mistress. She was a little marvel,
that Madame Courtade, whom the Captain had unearthed in an ecclesiastical warehouse in the
Faubourg Saint-Exupère, and not yet twenty. They had begun by smiling at each other, and by
exchanging those long looks when they met, which seemed to ask for charity.

Montboron used to pass in front of the shop at the same hours, stopped for a moment with the
appearance of a lounger who was loitering about the streets, but immediately her supple figure
appeared, pink and fair, shedding the brightness of youth and almost childhood round her, while
her looks showed that she was delighted at little gallant incidents which dispelled the monotony
and weariness of her life for a time, and gave rise to vague but delightful hopes.

Was love, that love which she had so constantly invoked, really knocking at her door at last,
and taking pity on her unhappy isolation? Did that officer, whom she met whenever she went
out, as if he had been faithfully watching her, when coming out of church, or when out for
a walk in the evening, who said so many delightful things to her with his wheedling eyes, really
love her as she wished to be loved, or was he merely amusing himself at that game, because
he had nothing better to do in their quiet little town?

But in a short time he wrote to her, and she replied to him, and at last they managed to meet
in secret, to make appointments, and talk together.

She knew all the cunning tricks of a simple girl, who has tasted the most delicious of sweets
with the tip of her tongue, and acting in concert, and giving each other the word, so that
there might be no awkward mistake, they managed to make the husband their unwitting accomplice,
without his having the least idea of what was going on.

Courtade was an excellent fellow, who saw no further than the tip of his nose, incapable of
rebelling, flabby, fat, steeped in devotion, and thinking too much about heaven to see what
a plot was being hatched against him, in our unhappy vale of tears, as the psalters say.

In the good old days of confederacies, he would have made an excellent chief of a corporation;
he loved his wife more like a father than a husband, considering that at his age a man ought
no longer to think of such trifles, and that, after all, the only real happiness in life was
to keep a good table and to have a good digestion, and so he ate like four canons, and drank
in proportion.

Only once during his whole life had he shown anything like energy--but he used to relate that
occurrence with all the pride of a conqueror, recalling his most heroic battle--and that was
on the evening when he refused to allow the bishop to take his cook away, quite regardless
of any of the consequences of such a daring deed.

In a few weeks, the Captain became his regular table companion, and his best friend. He had
begun by telling him in a boastful manner that, in order to keep a vow that he had made to
St. George, during the charge up the slope at Yron, during the battle of Gravelotte, he wished
to send two censers and a sanctuary lamp to his village church.

Courtade did his utmost, and all the more readily as this unexpected customer did not appear
to pay any regard to money. He sent for several goldsmiths, and showed Montboron models of
all kinds; he hesitated, however, and did not seem able to make up his mind, and discussed
the subject, designed ornaments himself, gained time, and thus managed to spend several hours
every day in the shop.

In fact, he was quite at home in the place, shook hands with Courtade, called him "my dear
fellow," and did not wince when he took his arm familiarly before other people, and introduced
him to his customers as, "My excellent friend, the Marquis de Montboron." He could go in and
out of the house as he pleased, whether the husband was at home or not.

The censers and the lamp were sent in due course to Montboron's château at Pacy-sur-Romanche
(in Normandy), and when the package was undone, it caused the greatest surprise to Jacques'
mother, who was more accustomed to receiving requests for money from her son, than ecclesiastical
objects.

Suddenly, however, without rhyme or reason, little Madame Courtade became insupportable and
enigmatical. Her husband could not understand it at all, and grew uneasy, and continually consulted
his friend the Captain.

Etiennette's character seemed to have completely changed; she found fifty pretexts for deserting
the shop, for coming late, for avoiding tête-à-têtes, in which people come to explanations,
and mutually become irritated, though such matters usually end in a reconciliation, amidst
a torrent of kisses.

She disappeared for days at a time, and soon, Montboron, who was not fitted to play the part
of a Sganarelle, either by age or temperament, became convinced that his mistress was making
him wear the horns, that she was hobnobbing with the General, and that she was in possession
of one of the five keys of the house in the Eglisottes quarter; and as he was as jealous as
an Andalusian, and felt a horror for that kind of pleasantry, he swore that he would make his
rival pay a hundred fold for the trick which he had played him.

The Fourteenth of July was approaching, when there was to be a grand parade of the whole garrison
on the large review ground, and all along the paling, which divided the spectators from the
soldiers, itinerant dealers had put up their stalls, and there were mountebanks' and somnambulists'
booths, menageries, and a large circus, which had gone through the town in caravans, with a
great noise of trumpets and of drums.

He had given his aide-de-camp his instructions beforehand, for he was more anxious than ever
to surprise people, and to have a horse like an equestrian statue, an animal which should outdo
that famous black horse of General Boulanger's, about which the Parisian loungers had talked
so much, and told Montboron not to mind what the price was, as long as he found him a suitable
charger.

When the Captain, a few days before the review, brought him a chestnut jennet, with a long
tail and flowing mane, which would not keep quiet for five seconds, but kept on shaking its
head, had extraordinary action, answered the slightest touch of the leg, and stepped out as
if it knew no other motion, General Daumont de Croisailles showered compliments upon him, and
assured him that he knew few officers who possessed his intelligence and his value, and that
he should not forget him when the proper time came for recommending him for promotion.

Not a muscle of the Marquis de Montboron's face moved, and when the day of the review arrived,
he was at his post on the staff that followed the General, who sat as upright as a dart in
the saddle, and looked at the crowd to see whether he could not recognize some old or new female
friend there, while his horse pranced and plunged.

He rode onto the review ground, amidst the increasing noise of applause, with a smile upon
his lips, when, suddenly, at the moment that he galloped up into the large square, formed by
the troops drawn up in a line, the band of the fifty-third regiment struck up a quick march,
and, as if obeying a preconcerted signal, the jennet began to turn round, and to accelerate
its speed, in spite of the furious tugs at the bridle which the rider gave.

The horse performed beautifully, followed the rhythm of the music, and appeared to be acting
under some invisible impulse, and the General had such a comical look on his face, he looked
so disconcerted, rolled his eyes, and seemed to be the prey to such terrible exasperation,
that he might have been taken for some character in a pantomime, while his staff followed him,
without being able to comprehend this fresh fancy of his.

The soldiers presented arms, the music did not stop, though the instrumentalists were much
astonished at this interminable ride.

The General at last became out of breath, and could scarcely keep in the saddle, and the women,
in the crowded ranks of the spectators, gave prolonged, nervous laughs, which made the old
roué's ears tingle with excitement.

The horse did not stop until the music ceased, and then it knelt down with bent head, and put
its nostrils into the dust.

It nearly gave General de Croisailles an attack of the jaundice, especially when he found out
that it was his aide-de-camp's tit for tat, and that the horse came from a circus which was
giving performances in the town. And what irritated him all the more was, that he could not
even set it down against Montboron and have him sent to some terrible out-of-the-way hole,
for the Captain sent in his resignation, wisely considering that sooner or later he should
have to pay the costs of that little trick, and that the chances were that he should not get
any further promotion, but remain stationary, like a cab which some bilker has left standing
for hours at one end of an arcade, while he has made his escape at the other.

RUST

During nearly his whole life, he had had an insatiable love for sport. He went out every day,
from morning till night, with the greatest ardor, in summer and winter, spring and autumn,
on the marshes, when it was close time on the plains and in the woods. He shot, he hunted,
he coursed, he ferreted; he spoke of nothing but shooting and hunting, he dreamt of it, and
continually repeated:

"How miserable any man must be who does not care for sport!"

And now that he was past fifty, he was well, robust, stout and vigorous, though rather bald,
and he kept his moustache cut quite short, so that it might not cover his lips, and interfere
with his blowing the horn.

He was never called by anything but his first Christian name, Monsieur Hector, but his full
name was Baron Hector Gontran de Coutelier, and he lived in a small manor house which he had
inherited, in the middle of the woods; and though he knew all the nobility of the department,
and met its male representatives out shooting and hunting, he only regularly visited one family,
the Courvilles, who were very pleasant neighbors, and had been allied to his race for centuries,
and in their house he was liked, and taken the greatest care of, and he used to say: "If I
were not a sportsman, I should like to be here always."

Monsieur de Courville had been his friend and comrade from childhood, and lived quietly as
a gentleman farmer with his wife, daughter and son-in-law, Monsieur de Darnetot, who did nothing,
under the pretext of being devoted to historical studies.

Baron de Coutelier often went and dined with his friends, as much with the object of telling
them of the shots he had made, as of anything else. He had long stories about dogs and ferrets,
of which he spoke as if they were persons of note, whom he knew very well. He analyzed them,
and explained their thoughts and intentions:

"When Medor saw that the corn-crake was leading him such a dance, he said to himself: 'Wait
a bit, my friend, we will have a joke.' And then, with a jerk of the head to me, to make me
go into the corner of the clover field, he began to quarter the sloping ground, noisily brushing
through the clover to drive the bird into a corner from which it could not escape.

"Everything happened as he had foreseen. Suddenly, the corn-crake found itself on the borders
of the clover, and it could not go any further without showing itself; Medor stood and pointed,
half-looking round at me, but at a sign from me, he drew up to it, flushed the corn-crake;
bang! down it came, and Medor, as he brought it to me, wagged his tail, as much as to say:
'How about that, Monsieur Hector?'"

Courville, Darnetot, and the two ladies laughed very heartily at those picturesque descriptions
into which the Baron threw his whole heart. He grew animated, moved his arms about, and gesticulated
with his whole body; and when he described the death of anything he had killed, he gave a formidable
laugh, and said:

"Was not that a good shot?"

As soon as they began to speak about anything else, he left off listening, and hummed a hunting
song, or a few notes to imitate a hunting horn, to himself.

He had only lived for field sports, and was growing old, without thinking about it, or guessing
it, when he had a severe attack of rheumatism, and was confined to his bed for two months,
and nearly died of grief and weariness.

As he kept no female servant, for an old footman did all the cooking, he could not get any
hot poultices, nor could he have any of those little attentions, nor anything that an invalid
requires. His gamekeeper was his sick nurse, and as the servant found the time hang just as
heavily on his hands as it did on his master's, he slept nearly all day and all night in any
easy chair, while the Baron was swearing and flying into a rage between the sheets.

The ladies of the De Courville family came to see him occasionally, and those were hours of
calm and comfort for him. They prepared his herb tea, attended to the fire, served him his
breakfast up daintily, by the side of his bed, and when they were going again, he used to say:

"By Jove! You ought to come here altogether," which made them laugh heartily.

When he was getting better, and was beginning to go out shooting again, he went to dine with
his friends one evening; but he was not at all in his usual spirits. He was tormented by one
continual fear--that he might have another attack before shooting began, and when he was taking
his leave at night, when the women were wrapping him up in a shawl, and tying a silk handkerchief
round his neck, which he allowed to be done for the first time in his life, he said in a disconsolated
voice:

"If it goes on like this, I shall be done for."

As soon as he had gone, Madame Darnetot said to her mother:

"We ought to try and get the Baron married."

They all raised their hands at the proposal. How was it that they had never thought of it before?
And during all the rest of the evening they discussed the widows whom they knew, and their
choice fell on a woman of forty, who was still pretty, fairly rich, very good-tempered and
in excellent health, whose name was Madame Berthe Vilers, and, accordingly, she was invited
to spend a month at the château. She was very dull at home, and was very glad to come; she
was lively and active, and Monsieur de Coutelier took her fancy immediately. She amused herself
with him as if he had been a living toy, and spent hours in asking him slyly about the sentiments
of rabbits and the machinations of foxes, and he gravely distinguished between the various
ways of looking at things which different animals had, and ascribed plans and subtle arguments
to them, just as he did to men of his acquaintance.

The attention she paid him, delighted him, and one evening, to show his esteem for her, he
asked her to go out shooting with him, which he had never done to any woman before, and the
invitation appeared so funny to her that she accepted it.

It was quite an amusement for them to fit her out; everybody offered her something, and she
came out in a sort of short riding habit, with boots and men's breeches, a short petticoat,
a velvet jacket, which was too tight for her across the chest, and a huntsman's black velvet cap.

The Baron seemed as excited as if he were going to fire his first shot. He minutely explained
to her the direction of the wind, and how different dogs worked. Then he took her into a field,
and followed her as anxiously as a nurse does when her charge is trying to walk for the first time.

Medor soon made a point, and stopped with his tail out stiff and one paw up, and the Baron,
standing behind his pupil, was trembling like a leaf, and whispered:

"Look out, they are par ... par ... partridges." And almost before he had finished, there was
a loud whirr--whirr, and a covey of large birds flew up in the air, with a tremendous noise.

Madame Vilers was startled, shut her eyes, fired off both barrels and staggered at the recoil
of the gun; but when she had recovered her self-possession, she saw that the Baron was dancing
about like a madman, and that Medor was bringing back the first of the two partridges which
she had killed.

From that day, Monsieur de Coutelier was in love with her, and used to say, raising his eyes:
"What a woman!" And he used to go and see them every evening now, and talked about shooting.

One day, Monsieur de Courville, who was walking part of the way with him, asked him, suddenly:

"Why don't you marry her?"

The Baron was altogether taken by surprise, and said:

"What? I? Marry her? ... Well ... really...."

And he said no more for a while, but then, suddenly shaking hands with his companion, he said:

"Good-bye, my friend," and quickly disappeared in the darkness.

He did not go again for three days, but when he reappeared, he was pale from thinking the matter
over, and graver than usual. Taking Monsieur de Courville aside, he said:

"That was a capital idea of yours; try and persuade her to accept me, for one might say that
a woman like she is, was made for me, and you and I shall be able to have some sort of sport
together, all the year round."

As Monsieur de Courville felt certain that his friend would not meet with a refusal, he replied:

"Propose to her immediately, my dear fellow, or would you rather that I did it for you?"

But the Baron grew suddenly nervous, and said, with some hesitation:

"No, ... no.... I must go to Paris for ... for a few days. As soon as I come back, I will give
you a definite answer." No other explanation was forthcoming, and he started the next morning.

He made a long stay. One, two, three weeks passed, but Monsieur de Coutelier did not return,
and the Courvilles, who were surprised and uneasy, did not know what to say to their friend,
whom they had informed of the Baron's wishes. Every other day they sent to his house for news
of him, but none of his servants had a line.

But one evening, while Madame Vilers was singing, and accompanying herself on the piano, a
servant came with a mysterious air, and told Monsieur de Courville that a gentleman wanted
to see him. It was the Baron, in a traveling suit, who looked much altered and older, and as
soon as he saw his old friend, he seized both his hands, and said, in a somewhat tired voice:
"I have just returned, my dear friend, and I have come to you immediately; I am thoroughly
knocked up."

Then he hesitated in visible embarrassment, and presently said:

"I wished to tell you ... immediately ... that ... that business ... you know what I mean ...
must come to nothing."

Monsieur de Courville looked at him in stupefaction. "Must come to nothing?... Why?"

"Oh! Do not ask me, please; it would be too painful for me to tell you; but you may rest assured
that I am acting like an honorable man. I cannot ... I have no right ... no right, you understand,
to marry this lady, and I will wait until she has gone, to come here again; it would be too
painful for me to see her. Good-bye." And he absolutely ran away.

The whole family deliberated and discussed the matter, surmising a thousand things. The conclusion
they came to was, that the Baron's past life concealed some great mystery, that, perhaps, he
had natural children, or some connection of long standing. At any rate, the matter seemed serious,
and so as to avoid any difficult complications, they adroitly informed Madame Vilers of the
state of affairs, who returned home just as much of a widow as she had come.

Three months more passed, when one evening, when he had dined rather too well, and was rather
unsteady on his legs, Monsieur de Coutelier, while he was smoking his pipe with Monsieur de
Courville, said to him:

"You would really pity me, if you only knew how continually I am thinking about your friend."

But the other, who had been rather vexed at the Baron's behavior in the circumstances, told
him exactly what he thought of him:

"By Jove, my good friend, when a man has any secrets in his existence, like you have, he does
not make advances to a woman, immediately, as you did, for you must surely have foreseen the
reason why you had to draw back."

The Baron left off smoking in some confusion.

"Yes, and no; at any rate, I could not have believed what actually happened."

Whereupon, Monsieur de Courville lost his patience, and replied:

"One ought to foresee everything."

But Monsieur de Coutelier replied in a low voice, in case anybody should be listening: "I see
that I have hurt your feelings, and will tell you everything, so that you may forgive me. You
know that for twenty years I have lived only for sport; I care for nothing else, and think
about nothing else. Consequently, when I was on the point of undertaking certain obligations
with regard to this lady, I felt some scruples of conscience. Since I have given up the habit
of ... of love, there! I have not known whether I was still capable of ... you know what I
mean ... Just think! It is exactly sixteen years since ... I for the last time ... you understand
what I mean. In this neighborhood, it is not easy to ... you know. And then, I had other things
to do. I prefer to use my gun, and so before entering into an engagement before the Mayor[3]
and the Priest to ... well, I was frightened. I said to myself: 'Confound it; suppose I missed
fire!' An honorable man always keeps his engagements, and in this case, I was undertaking sacred
duties with regard to this lady, and so, to feel sure, I made up my mind to go and spend a
week in Paris.

[Footnote 3: Civil marriage is obligatory in France, whether a religious ceremony takes place
or not.--TRANSLATOR.]

"At the end of that time, nothing, absolutely nothing occurred. I always lost the game....
I waited for a fortnight, three weeks, continually hoping. In the restaurants, I ate a number
of highly seasoned dishes, which upset my stomach, and ... and it was still the same thing
... or rather, nothing. You will, therefore, understand, that, in such circumstances, and having
assured myself of the fact, the only thing I could do was ... was ... to withdraw; and I did so."

Monsieur de Courville had to struggle very hard not to laugh, and he shook hands with the Baron,
saying:

"I am very sorry for you," and accompanied him half-way home.

When he got back, and was alone with his wife, he told her everything, nearly choking with
laughter; she, however, did not laugh, but listened very attentively, and when her husband
had finished, she said, very seriously:

"The Baron is a fool, my dear; he was frightened, that is all. I will write and ask Berthe
to come back here as soon as possible."

And when Monsieur de Courville observed that their friend had made such long and useless attempts,
she merely said:

"Nonsense! When a man loves his wife, you know ... that sort of thing adjusts itself to the
situation."

And Monsieur de Courville made no reply, as he felt rather confused himself.

THE SUBSTITUTE

"Madame Bonderoi?"

"Yes, Madame Bonderoi."

"Impossible."

"I tell you it is."

Madame Bonderoi, the old lady in a lace cap, the devout, the holy, the honorable Madame Bonderoi,
whose little false curls looked as if they were glued round her head.

"That is the very woman."

"Oh! Come, you must be mad."

"I swear to you that it is Madame Bonderoi."

"Then please give me the details."

"Here they are. During the life of Monsieur Bonderoi, the lawyer, people said that she utilized
his clerks for her own particular service. She is one of those respectable middle-class women,
with secret vices, and inflexible principles, of whom there are so many. She liked good-looking
young fellows, and I should like to know what is more natural than that? Do not we all like
pretty girls?"

"As soon as old Bonderoi was dead, his widow began to live the peaceful and irreproachable
life of a woman with a fair, fixed income. She went to church assiduously, and spoke evil of
her neighbors, but gave no handle to anyone for speaking ill of her, and when she grew old
she became the little wizened, sour-faced, mischievous woman whom you know. Well, this adventure,
which you would scarcely believe, happened last Friday.

"My friend, Jean d'Anglemare, is, as you know, a captain in a dragoon regiment, who is quartered
in the barracks in the Rue de la Rivette, and when he got to his quarters the other morning,
he found that two men of his squadron had had a terrible quarrel. The rules about military
honor are very severe, and so a duel took place between them. After the duel they became reconciled,
and when their officer questioned them, they told him what their quarrel had been about. They
had fought on Madame Bonderoi's account."

"Oh!"

"Yes, my dear fellow, about Madame Bonderoi."

"But I will let Trooper Siballe speak."

"This is how it was, Captain. About a year and a half ago, I was lounging about the barrack-yard,
between six and seven o'clock in the evening, when a woman came up and spoke to me, and said,
just as if she had been asking her way: 'Soldier, would you like to earn ten francs a week,
honestly?' Of course, I told her that I decidedly should, and so she said: 'Come and see me
at twelve o'clock to-morrow morning. I am Madame Bonderoi, and my address is No. 6, Rue de
la Tranchée.' 'You may rely upon my being there, Madame.' And then she went away, looking very
pleased, and she added: 'I am very much obliged to you, soldier.' 'I am obliged to you, Madame,'
I replied. But I plagued my head about the matter, until the time came, all the same.

"At twelve o'clock, exactly, I rang the bell, and she let me in herself. She had a lot of ribbons
on her head.

"'We must make haste,' she said; 'as my servant might come in.'

"'I am quite willing to make haste,' I replied, 'but what am I to do?'

"But she only laughed, and replied: 'Don't you understand, you great knowing fellow?'

"I was no nearer her meaning, I give you my word of honor, Captain, but she came and sat down
by me, and said:

"'If you mention this to anyone, I will have you put in prison, so swear that you will never
open your lips about it.'

"I swore whatever she liked, though I did not at all understand what she meant, and my forehead
was covered with perspiration, so I took my pocket-handkerchief out of my helmet, and she took
it and wiped my brow with it; then she kissed me, and whispered: 'Then you will?' 'I will do
anything you like, Madame,' I replied, 'as that is what I came for.'

"Then she made herself clearly understood by her actions, and when I saw what it was, I put
my helmet onto a chair, and showed her that in the dragoons a man never retires, Captain.

"Not that I cared much about it, for she was certainly not in her prime, but it is no good
being too particular in such a matter, as ten francs are scarce, and then I have relations
whom I like to help, and I said to myself: 'There will be five francs for my father, out of that.'

"When I had done my allotted task, Captain, I got ready to go, though she wanted me to stop
longer, but I said to her:

"'To everyone their due, Madame. A small glass of brandy costs two sous, and two glasses cost
four.'

"She understood my meaning, and put a gold ten-franc piece into my hand. I do not like that
coin, because it is so small that if your pockets are not very well made, and come at all unsewn,
one is apt to find it in one's boots, or not to find it at all, and so, while I was looking
at it, she was looking at me. She got red in the face, as she had misunderstood my looks, and
she said: 'Is not that enough?'

"'I did not mean that, Madame,' I replied; 'but if it is all the same to you, I would rather
have two five-franc pieces.' And she gave them to me, and I took my leave. This has been going
on for a year and a half, Captain. I go every Tuesday evening, when you give me leave to go
out of barracks; she prefers that, as her servant has gone to bed then, but last week I was
not well, and I had to go into the infirmary. When Tuesday came, I could not get out, and I
was very vexed, because of the ten francs which I had been receiving every week, and I said
to myself:

"'If anybody goes there, I shall be done; and she will be sure to take an artilleryman, and
that made me very angry. So I sent for Paumelle, who comes from my part of the country, and
I told him how matters stood:

"'There will be five francs for you, and five for me,' I said. He agreed, and went, as I had
given him full instructions. She opened the door as soon as he knocked, and let him in, and
as she did not look at his face, she did not perceive that it was not I, for, you know, Captain,
one dragoon is very like another, with their helmets on.

"Suddenly, however, she noticed the change, and she asked, angrily: 'Who are you? What do you
want? I do not know you.'

"Then Paumelle explained matters; he told her that I was not well, and that I had sent him
as my substitute; so she looked at him, made him also swear to keep the matter secret, and
then she accepted him, as you may suppose, for Paumelle is not a bad-looking fellow, either.
But when he came back, Captain, he would not give me my five francs. If they had been for myself,
I should not have said a word, but they were for my father, and on that score, I would stand
no nonsense, and I said to him:

"'You are not particular in what you do, for a dragoon; you are a discredit to your uniform.'

"He raised his fist, Captain, saying that fatigue duty like that was worth double. Of course,
everybody has his own ideas, and he ought not to have accepted it. You know the rest."

"Captain d'Anglemare laughed until he cried as he told me the story, but he also made me promise
to keep the matter a secret, just as he had promised the two soldiers. So, above all, do not
betray me, but promise me to keep it to yourself."

"Oh! You may be quite easy about that. But how was it all arranged, in the end?"

"How? It is a joke in a thousand!... Mother Bonderoi keeps her two dragoons, and reserves his
own particular day for each of them, and in that way everybody is satisfied."

"Oh! That is capital! Really capital!"

"And he can send his old father and mother the money as usual, and thus morality is satisfied."

THE RELIC

To the Abbé Louis d'Ennemare, at Soissons.

"My Dear Abbé:

"My marriage with your cousin is broken off in the stupidest manner, on account of a stupid
trick which I almost involuntarily played my intended, in my embarrassment, and I turn to you,
my old schoolfellow, for you may be able to help me out of the difficulty. If you can, I shall
be grateful to you until I die.

"You know Gilberte, or rather you think you know her, for do we ever understand women? All
their opinions, their ideas, their creeds, are a surprise to us. They are all full of twists
and turns, of the unforeseen, of unintelligible arguments, or defective logic and of obstinate
ideas, which seem final, but which they alter because a little bird came and perched on the
window ledge.

"I need not tell you that your cousin is very religious, as she was brought up by the White
(or was it the Black?) Ladies at Nancy. You know that better than I do, but what you perhaps
do not know, is, that she is just as excitable about other matters as she is about religion.
Her head flies away, just like a leaf being whirled away by the wind; and she is a woman, or
rather a girl, more so than many are, for she is moved, or made angry in a moment, starting
off at a gallop after affection, just as she does after hatred, and returning in the same manner;
and she is as pretty ... as you know, and more charming than I can say ... as you will never know.

"Well, we became engaged, and I adored her, as I adore her still, and she appeared to love me.

"One evening, I received a telegram summoning me to Cologne for a consultation, which might
be followed by a serious and difficult operation, and as I had to start the next morning, I
went to wish Gilberte goodbye, and tell her why I could not dine with them on Wednesday, but
on Friday, the day of my return. Ah! Take care of Fridays, for I assure you they are unlucky!

"When I told her that I had to go to Germany, I saw that her eyes filled with tears, but when
I said I should be back very soon, she clapped her hands, and said:

"'I am very glad you are going, then! You must bring me back something; a mere trifle, just
a souvenir, but a souvenir that you have chosen for me. You must find out what I should like
best, do you hear? And then I shall see whether you have any imagination.'

"She thought for a few moments, and then added:

"'I forbid you to spend more than twenty francs on it. I want it for the intention, and for
the remembrance of your penetration, and not for its intrinsic value.'

"And then, after another moment's silence, she said, in a low voice, and with downcast eyes.

"'If it costs you nothing in money, and if it is something very ingenious and pretty, I will
... I will kiss you.'

"The next day, I was in Cologne. It was the case of a terrible accident, which had thrown a
whole family into despair, and a difficult amputation was necessary. They put me up; I might
say, they almost locked me up, and I saw nobody but people in tears, who almost deafened me
with their lamentations; I operated on a man who appeared to be in a moribund state, and who
nearly died under my hands, and with whom I remained two nights, and then, when I saw that
there was a chance for his recovery, I drove to the station. I had, however, made a mistake
in the trains, and I had an hour to wait, and so I wandered about the streets, still thinking
of my poor patient, when a man accosted me. I do not know German, and he was totally ignorant
of French, but at last I made out that he was offering me some relics. I thought of Gilberte,
for I knew her fanatical devotion, and here was my present ready to hand, so I followed the
man into a shop where religious objects were for sale, and I bought a small piece of a bone
of one of the Eleven Thousand Virgins.

"The pretended relic was enclosed in a charming, old silver box, and that determined my choice,
and putting my purchase into my pocket, I went to the railway station, and so to Paris.

"As soon as I got home, I wished to examine my purchase again, and on taking hold of it, I
found that the box was open, and the relic lost! It was no good to hunt in my pocket, and to
turn it inside out; the small bit of bone, which was no bigger than half a pin, had disappeared.

"You know, my dear little Abbé, that my faith is not very great, but, as my friend, you are
magnanimous enough to put up with my coldness, and to leave me alone, and to wait for the future,
so you say. But I absolutely disbelieve in the relics of second-hand dealers in piety, and
you share my doubts in that respect. Therefore, the loss of that bit of sheep's carcass did
not grieve me, and I easily procured a similar fragment, which I carefully fastened inside
my jewel, and then I went to see my intended.

"As soon as she saw me, she ran up to me, smiling and anxious, and said to me:

"'What have you brought me?'

"I pretended to have forgotten, but she did not believe me, and I made her beg me, and beseech
me, even. But when I saw that she was devoured by curiosity, I gave her the sacred silver box.
She appeared over-joyed.

"'A relic! Oh! A relic!'

"And she kissed the box passionately, so that I was ashamed of my deception. She was not quite
satisfied, however, and her uneasiness soon turned to terrible fear, and looking straight into
my eyes, she said:

"'Are you sure that it is authentic?'

"'Absolutely certain.'

"'How can you be so certain?'

"I was caught, for to say that I had bought it through a man in the streets, would be my destruction.
What was I to say? A wild idea struck me, and I said, in a low, mysterious voice:

"'I stole it for you.'

"She looked at me with astonishment and delight in her large eyes.

"'Oh! You stole it? Where?'

"'In the cathedral; in the very shrine of the Eleven Thousand Virgins.'

"Her heart beat with pleasure, and she murmured:

"'Oh! Did you really do that ... for me? Tell me ... all about it!'

"There was an end of it, and I could not go back. I made up a fanciful story, with precise
details. I had given the custodian of the building a hundred francs to be allowed to go about
the building by myself; the shrine was being repaired, but I happened to be there at the breakfast
time of the workmen and clergy; by removing a small panel, I had been enabled to seize a small
piece of bone (oh! so small), among a quantity of others, (I said a quantity, as I thought
of the amount that the remains of the skeletons of eleven thousand virgins must produce). Then
I went to a goldsmith's and bought a casket worthy of the relic; and I was not sorry to let
her know that the silver box cost me five hundred francs.

"But she did not think of that; she listened to me, trembling; in an ecstasy, and whispering:

"'How I love you!' she threw herself into my arms.

"Just note this: I had committed sacrilege for her sake. I had committed a theft; I had violated
a shrine; violated and stolen holy relics, and for that she adored me, thought me loving, tender,
divine. Such is woman, my dear Abbé.

"For two months I was the best of lovers. In her room, she had made a kind of magnificent chapel
in which to keep this bit of mutton chop, which, as she thought, had made me commit that love-crime,
and she worked up her religious enthusiasm in front of it every morning and evening. I had
asked her to keep the matter secret, for fear, as I said, that I might be arrested, condemned
and given over to Germany, and she kept her promise.

"Well, at the beginning of the summer, she was seized with an irresistible wish to see the
scene of my exploit, and she begged her father so persistently (without telling him her secret
reason), that he took her to Cologne, but without telling me of their trip, according to his
daughter's wish.

"I need not tell you that I had not seen the interior of the cathedral. I do not know where
the tomb (if there be a tomb), of the Eleven Thousand Virgins is, and then, it appears that
it is unapproachable, alas!

"A week afterwards, I received ten lines, breaking off our engagement, and then an explanatory
letter from her father, whom she had, somewhat late, taken into her confidence.

"At the sight of the shrine, she had suddenly seen through my trickery and my lie, and had
also found out that I was innocent of any other crime. Having asked the keeper of the relics
whether any robbery had been committed, the man began to laugh, and pointed out to them how
impossible such a crime was, but from the moment I had plunged my profane hand into venerable
relics, I was no longer worthy of my fair-haired and delicate betrothed.

"I was forbidden the house; I begged and prayed in vain, nothing could move the fair devotee,
and I grew ill from grief. Well, last week, her cousin, Madame d'Arville, who is yours also,
sent word to me that she should like to see me, and when I called, she told me on what conditions
I might obtain my pardon, and here they are. I must bring her a relic, a real, authentic relic,
certified to be such by Our Holy Father, the Pope, of some virgin and martyr, and I am going
mad from embarrassment and anxiety.

"I will go to Rome, if needful, but I cannot call on the Pope unexpectedly, and tell him my
stupid adventure; and, besides, I doubt whether they let private individuals have relics. Could
not you give me an introduction to some cardinal, or only to some French prelate, who possesses
some remains of a female saint? Or perhaps you may have the precious object she wants in your
collection?

"Help me out of my difficulty, my dear Abbé, and I promise you that I will be converted ten
years sooner than I otherwise should be!

"Madame d'Arville, who takes the matter seriously, said to me the other day:

"'Poor Gilberte will never marry.'

"My dear old schoolfellow, will you allow your cousin to die the victim of a stupid piece of
business on my part? Pray prevent her from being the eleventh thousand and one virgin.

"Pardon me, I am unworthy, but I embrace you, and love you with all my heart.

"Your old friend,

"Henri Fontal."

THE MAN WITH THE BLUE EYES

Monsieur Pierre Agénor de Vargnes, the Examining Magistrate, was the exact opposite of a practical
joker. He was dignity, staidness, correctness personified. As a sedate man, he was quite incapable
of being guilty, even in his dreams, of anything resembling a practical joke, however remotely.
I know nobody to whom he could be compared, unless it be the present president of the French
Republic. I think it is useless to carry the analogy any further, and having said thus much,
it will be easily understood that a cold shiver passed through me when Monsieur Pierre Agénor
de Vargnes did me the honor of sending a lady to wait on me.

At about eight o'clock, one morning last winter, as he was leaving the house to go to the Palais
de Justice, his footman handed him a card, on which was printed:

  DOCTOR JAMES FERDINAND,
  Member of the Academy of Medicine,
  Port-au-Prince,
  Chevalier of the Legion of Honor.

At the bottom of the card, there was written in pencil:

  From Lady Frogère

Monsieur de Vargnes knew the lady very well, who was a very agreeable Creole from Haiti, and
whom he had met in many drawing-rooms, and, on the other hand, though the doctor's name did
not awaken any recollections in him, his quality and titles alone required that he should grant
him an interview, however short it might be. Therefore, although he was in a hurry to get out,
Monsieur de Vargnes told the footman to show in his early visitor, but to tell him beforehand
that his master was much pressed for time, as he had to go to the Law Courts.

When the doctor came in, in spite of his usual imperturbability, he could not restrain a movement
of surprise, for the doctor presented that strange anomaly of being a negro of the purest,
blackest type, with the eyes of a white man, of a man from the North, pale, cold, clear, blue
eyes, and his surprise increased when, after a few words of excuse for his untimely visit,
he added, with an enigmatical smile:

"My eyes surprise you, do they not? I was sure that they would, and, to tell you the truth,
I came here in order that you might look at them well, and never forget them."

His smile, and his words, even more than his smile, seemed to be those of a madman. He spoke
very softly, with that childish, lisping voice, which is peculiar to negroes, and his mysterious,
almost menacing words, consequently, sounded all the more as if they were uttered at random
by a man bereft of his reason. But his looks, the looks of those pale, cold, clear, blue eyes,
were certainly not those of a madman. They clearly expressed menace, yes, menace, as well as
irony, and, above all, implacable ferocity, and their glance was like a flash of lightning,
which one could never forget.

"I have seen," Monsieur de Vargnes used to say, when speaking about it, "the looks of many
murderers, but in none of them have I ever observed such a depth of crime, and of impudent
security in crime."

And this impression was so strong, that Monsieur de Vargnes thought that he was the sport of
some hallucination, especially as when he spoke about his eyes, the doctor continued with a
smile, and in his most childish accents: "Of course, Monsieur, you cannot understand what I
am saying to you, and I must beg your pardon for it. To-morrow, you will receive a letter which
will explain it at all to you, but, first all, it was necessary that I should let you have
a good, a careful look at my eyes, my eyes which are myself, my only and true self, as you
will see."

With these words, and with a polite bow, the doctor went out, leaving Monsieur de Vargnes extremely
surprised, and a prey to this doubt, as he said to himself:

"Is he merely a madman? The fierce expression, and the criminal depths of his looks are perhaps
caused merely by the extraordinary contrast between his fierce looks and his pale eyes."

And absorbed in these thoughts, Monsieur de Vargnes unfortunately allowed several minutes to
elapse, and then he thought to himself suddenly:

"No, I am not the sport of any hallucination, and this is no case of an optical phenomenon.
This man is evidently some terrible criminal, and I have altogether failed in my duty in not
arresting him myself at once, illegally, even at the risk of my life."

The judge ran downstairs in pursuit of the doctor, but it was too late; he had disappeared.
In the afternoon, he called on Madame Frogère, to ask her whether she could tell him anything
about the matter. She, however, did not know the negro doctor in the least, and was even able
to assure him that he was a fictitious personage, for, as she was well acquainted with the
upper classes in Haiti, she knew that the Academy of Medicine at Port-au-Prince had no doctor
of that name among its members. As Monsieur de Vargnes persisted, and gave descriptions of
the doctor, especially mentioning his extraordinary eyes, Madame Frogère began to laugh, and said:

"You have certainly had to do with a hoaxer, my dear Monsieur. The eyes which you have described,
are certainly those of a white man, and the individual must have been painted."

On thinking it over, Monsieur de Vargnes remembered that the doctor had nothing of the negro
about him, but his black skin, his woolly hair and beard, and his way of speaking, which was
easily imitated, but nothing of the negro, not even the characteristic, undulating walk. Perhaps,
after all, he was only a practical joker, and during the whole day, Monsieur de Vargnes took
refuge in that view, which rather wounded his dignity as a man of consequence, but which appeased
his scruples as a magistrate.

The next day, he received the promised letter, which was written, as well as addressed, in
letters cut out of the newspapers. It was as follows:

       *       *       *       *       *

"MONSIEUR,--

"Doctor James Ferdinand does not exist, but the man whose eyes you saw does, and you will certainly
recognize his eyes. This man has committed two crimes, for which he does not feel any remorse,
but, as he is a psychologist, he is afraid of some day yielding to the irresistible temptation
of confessing his crimes. You know better than anyone (and that is your most powerful aid),
with what imperious force criminals, especially intellectual ones, feel this temptation. That
great Poet, Edgar Poe, has written masterpieces on this subject, which express the truth exactly,
but he has omitted to mention the last phenomenon, which I will tell you. Yes, I, a criminal,
feel a terrible wish for somebody to know of my crimes, and, when this requirement is satisfied,
my secret has been revealed to a confidant, I shall be tranquil for the future, and be freed
from this demon of perversity, which only tempts us once. Well! Now that is accomplished. You
shall have my secret; from the day that you recognize me by my eyes, you will try and find
out what I am guilty of, and how I was guilty, and you will discover it, being a master of
your profession, which, by-the-bye, has procured you the honor of having been chosen by me
to bear the weight of this secret, which now is shared by us, and by us two alone. I say, advisedly,
by us two alone. You could not, as a matter of fact, prove the reality of this secret to anyone,
unless I were to confess it, and I defy you to obtain my public confession, as I have confessed
it to you, and without danger to myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

Three months later, Monsieur de Vargnes met Monsieur X---- at an evening party and at first
sight, and without the slightest hesitation, he recognized in him those very pale, very cold,
and very clear blue eyes, eyes which it was impossible to forget.

The man himself remained perfect impassive, so that Monsieur de Vargnes was forced to say to
himself:

"Probably I am the sport of a hallucination at this moment, or else there are two pairs of
eyes that are perfectly similar, in the world. And what eyes! Can it be possible?"

The magistrate instituted inquiries into his life, and he discovered this, which removed all
his doubts.

Five years previously, Monsieur X---- had been a very poor, but very brilliant medical student,
who, although he never took his doctor's degree, had already made himself remarkable by his
microbiological researches.

A young and very rich widow had fallen in love with him and married him. She had one child
by her first marriage, and in the space of six months, first the child and then the mother
died of typhoid fever, and thus Monsieur X---- had inherited a large fortune, in due form,
and without any possible dispute. Everybody said that he had attended to the two patients with
the utmost devotion. Now, were these two deaths the two crimes mentioned in his letter?

But then, Monsieur X---- must have poisoned his two victims with the microbes of typhoid fever,
which he had skillfully cultivated in them, so as to make the disease incurable, even by the
most devoted care and attention. Why not?

"Do you believe it?" I asked Monsieur de Vargnes. "Absolutely," he replied. "And the most terrible
thing about it is, that the villain is right when he defies me to force him to confess his
crime publicly for I see no means of obtaining a confession, none whatever. For a moment, I
thought of magnetism, but who could magnetize that man with those pale, cold, bright eyes?
With such eyes, he would force the magnetizer to denounce himself as the culprit."

And then he said, with a deep sigh:

"Ah! Formerly there was something good about justice!"

And when he saw my inquiring looks, he added in a firm and perfectly convinced voice:

"Formerly, justice had torture at its command."

"Upon my word," I replied, with all an author's unconscious and simple egotism, "it is quite
certain that without the torture, this strange tale would have no conclusion, and that is very
unfortunate, as far as regards the story I intended to make of it."

ALLOUMA

I

One of my friends had said to me:--

"If you happen to be near Bordj-Ebbaba while you are in Algeria, be sure and go to see my old
friend Auballe, who has settled there."

I had forgotten the name of Auballe and of Ebbaba, and I was not thinking of this planter,
when I arrived at his house by pure accident. For a month, I had been wandering on foot through
that magnificent district which extends from Algiers to Cherchell, Orléansville, and Tiaret.
It is at the same time wooded and bare, grand and charming. Between two hills, one comes across
large pine forests in narrow valleys, through which torrents rush in the winter. Enormous trees,
which have fallen across the ravine, serve as a bridge for the Arabs, and also for the tropical
creepers, which twine round the dead stems, and adorn them with new life. There are hollows,
in little known recesses of the mountains, of a terribly beautiful character, and the sides
of the brooks, which are covered with oleanders, are indescribably lovely.

But what has left behind it the most pleasant recollections of that excursion, is the long
after-dinner walks along the slightly wooded roads on those undulating hills, from which one
can see an immense tract of country from the blue sea as far as the chain of the Quarsenis,
on whose summit there is the cedar forest of Teniet-el-Haad.

On that day I lost my way. I had just climbed to the top of a hill, whence, beyond a long extent
of rising ground, I had seen the extensive plain of Metidja, and then, on the summit of another
chain, almost invisible in the distances that strange monument which is called The Tomb of
the Christian Woman, and which was said to be the burial-place of the kings of Mauritana. I
went down again, going southward, with a yellow landscape before me, extending as far as the
fringe of the desert, as yellow as if all those hills were covered with lions' skins sewn together,
sometimes a pointed yellow peak would rise out of the midst of them, like the bristly back
of a camel.

I walked quickly and lightly, like as one does when following tortuous paths on a mountain
slope. Nothing seems to weigh on one in those short, quick walks through the invigorating air
of those heights, neither the body, nor the heart, nor the thoughts, nor even cares. On that
day I felt nothing of all that crushes and tortures our life; I only felt the pleasure of that
descent. In the distance I saw an Arab encampment, brown pointed tents, which seemed fixed
to the earth, like limpets are to a rock, or else gourbis, huts made of branches, from which
a gray smoke rose. White figures, men and women, were walking slowly about, and the bells of
the flocks sounded vaguely through the evening air.

The arbutus trees on my road hung down under the weight of their purple fruit, which was falling
on the ground. They looked like martyred trees, from which blood-colored sweat was falling,
for at the top of every tier there was a red spot, like a drop of blood.

The earth all round them was covered with it, and as my feet crushed the fruit, they left blood-colored
traces behind them, and sometimes, as I went along, I would jump and pick one, and eat it.

All the valleys were by this time filled with a white vapor, which rose slowly, like the steam
from the flanks of an ox, and on the chain of mountains that bordered the horizon, on the outskirts
of the desert of Sahara, the sky was in flames. Long streaks of gold alternated with streaks
of blood--blood again! Blood and gold, the whole of human history--and sometimes between the
two there was a small opening in the greenish azure, far away like a dream.

How far away I was from all those persons and things with which one occupies oneself on the
boulevards, far from myself also, for I had become a kind of wandering being, without thought
or consciousness, far from any road, of which I was not even thinking, for as night came on,
I found that I had lost my way.

The shades of night were falling onto the earth like a shower of darkness, and I saw nothing
before me but the mountains, in the far distance. Presently, I saw some tents in the valley,
into which I descended, and tried to make the first Arab I met understand in which direction
I wanted to go. I do not know whether he understood me, but he gave me a long answer, which
I did not in the least understand. In despair, I was about to make up my mind to pass the night
wrapped up in a rug near the encampment, when among the strange words he uttered, I fancied
that I heard the name, Bordj-Ebbaba, and so I repeated:

"Bordj-Ebbaba."

"Yes, yes."

I showed him two francs that were a fortune to him, and he started off, while I followed him.
Ah! I followed that pale phantom which strode on before me bare-footed along stony paths, on
which I stumbled continually, for a long time, and then suddenly I saw a light, and we soon
reached the door of a white house, a kind of fortress with straight walls, and without any
outside windows. When I knocked, dogs began to bark inside, and a voice asked in French:

"Who is there?"

"Does Monsieur Auballe live here?" I asked.

"Yes."

The door was opened for me, and I found myself face to face with Monsieur Auballe himself,
a tall man in slippers, with a pipe in his mouth and the looks of a jolly Hercules.

As soon as I mentioned my name, he put out both his hands and said:

"Consider yourself at home here, Monsieur."

A quarter of an hour later I was dining ravenously, opposite to my host, who went on smoking.

I knew his history. After having wasted a great amount of money on women, he had invested the
remnants of his fortune in Algerian landed property and taken to money-making. It turned out
prosperously; he was happy, and had the calm look of a happy and contented man. I could not
understand how this fast Parisian could have grown accustomed to that monstrous life in such
a lonely spot, and I asked him about it.

"How long have you been here?" I asked him.

"For nine years."

"And have you not been intolerably dull and miserable?"

"No, one gets used to this country, and ends by liking it. You cannot imagine how it lays hold
on people by those small, animal instincts that we are ignorant of ourselves. We first become
attached to it by our organs, to which it affords secret gratifications which we do not inquire
into. The air and the climate overcome our flesh, in spite of ourselves, and the bright light
with which it is inundated keeps the mind clear and fresh, at but little cost. It penetrates
us continually by our eyes, and one might really say that it cleanses the somber nooks of the
soul."

"But what about women?"

"Ah...! There is rather a dearth of them!"

"Only rather?"

"Well, yes ... rather. For one can always, even among the Arabs, find some complaisant, native
women, who think of the nights of Roumi."

He turned to the Arab, who was waiting on me, who was a tall, dark fellow, with bright, black
eyes, that flashed beneath his turban, and said to him:

"I will call you when I want you, Mohammed." And then, turning to me, he said:

"He understands French, and I am going to tell you a story in which he plays a leading part."

As soon as the man had left the room, he began:

"I had been here about four years, and scarcely felt quite settled yet in this country, whose
language I was beginning to speak, and forced, in order not to break altogether with those
passions that had been fatal to me in other places, to go to Algiers for a few days, from time
to time.

"I had bought this farm, this bordj, which had been a fortified post, and was within a few
hundred yards from the native encampment, whose man I employ to cultivate my land. Among the
tribe that had settled here, and which formed a portion of the Oulad-Taadja, I chose, as soon
as I arrived here, that tall fellow whom you have just seen, Mohammed ben Lam'har, who soon
became greatly attached to me. As he would not sleep in a house, not being accustomed to it,
he pitched his tent a few yards from my house, so that I might be able to call him from my window.

"You can guess what my life was, I dare say? Every day I was busy with cleanings and plantations;
I hunted a little, I used to go and dine with the officers of the neighboring fortified posts,
or else they came and dined with me. As for pleasures ... I have told you what they consisted
in. Algiers offered me some which were rather more refined, and from time to time a complaisant
and compassionate Arab would stop me when I was out for a walk, and offer to bring one of the
women of his tribe to my house at night. Sometimes I accepted, but more frequently I refused,
from fear of the disagreeable consequences and troubles it might entail upon me.

"One evening, at the beginning of summer, as I was going home, after going over the farm, as
I wanted Mohammed, I went into his tent without calling him, as I frequently did, and there
I saw a woman, a girl, sleeping almost naked, with her arms crossed under her head, on one
of those thick, red carpets, made of the fine wool of Djebel-Amour, and which are as soft and
as thick as a feather bed. Her body, which was beautifully white under the ray of light that
came in through the raised covering of the tent, appeared to me to be one of the most perfect
specimens of the human race that I had ever seen, and most of the women about here are beautiful
and tall, and are a rare combination of features and shape. I let the edge of the tent fall
in some confusion, and returned home.

"I love women! The sudden flash of this vision had penetrated and scorched me, and had rekindled
in my veins that old, formidable ardor to which I owe my being here. It was very hot for it
was July, and I spent nearly the whole night at my window, with my eyes fixed on the black
Mohammed's tent made on the ground.

"When he came into my room the next morning, I looked him closely in the face, and he hung
his head, like a man who was guilty and in confusion. Did he guess that I knew? I, however,
asked him, suddenly:

"'So you are married, Mohammed?' and I saw that he got red, and he stammered out: 'No, mo'ssieuia!'

"I used to make him speak French to me, and to give me Arabic lessons, which was often productive
of a most incoherent mixture of languages; however, I went on:

"'Then why is there a woman in your tent?'

"'She comes from the South,' he said, in a low, apologetic voice.

"'Oh! So she comes from the South? But that does not explain to me how she comes to be in your
tent.'

"Without answering my question, he continued:

"'She is very pretty.'

"'Oh! Indeed. Another time, please, when you happen to receive a pretty woman from the South,
you will take care that she comes to my gourbi, and not to yours. You understand me, Mohammed?'

"'Yes, mo'ssieuia,' he repeated, seriously.

"I must acknowledge that during the whole day I was in a state of aggressive excitement at
the recollection of that Arab girl lying on the red carpet, and when I went in at dinner time,
I felt very strongly inclined to go to Mohammed's tent again. During the evening, he waited
on me just as usual, and hovered round me with his impassive face, and several times I was
very nearly asking him whether he intended to keep that girl from the South, who was very pretty,
in his camel skin tent for a long time.

"Towards nine o'clock, still troubled with that longing for female society which is as tenacious
as the hunting instinct in dogs, I went out to get some fresh air, and to stroll about a little
round that cone of brown skin through which I could see a brilliant speck of light. I did not
remain long, however, for fear of being surprised by Mohammed in the neighborhood of his dwelling.
When I went in an hour later, I clearly saw his outline in the tent, and then, taking the key
out of my pocket, I went into the bordj, where besides myself, there slept my steward, two
French laborers, and an old cook whom I had picked up in the Algiers. As I went up stairs,
I was surprised to see a streak of light under my door, and when I opened it, I saw a girl
with the face of a statue sitting on a straw chair by the side of the table, on which a wax
candle was burning; she was bedizened with all those silver gew-gaws which women in the South
wear on their legs, arms, breast, and even on their stomach. Her eyes, which were tinged with
kohl, to make them look larger, regarded me earnestly, and four little blue spots, finely tatooed
on her skin, marked her forehead, her cheeks, and her chin. Her arms, which were loaded with
bracelets, were resting on her thighs, which were covered by the long, red silk skirt that
she wore.

"When she saw me come in, she got up and remained standing in front of me, covered with her
barbaric jewels, in an attitude of proud submission.

"'What are you doing here?' I said to her in Arabic.

"'I am here because Mohammed told me to come.'

"'Very well, sit down.'

"So she sat down and lowered her eyes, while I examined her attentively.

"She had a strange, regular, delicate, and rather bestial face, but mysterious as that of a
Buddha. Her lips, which were rather thick and covered with a reddish efflorescence, which I
discovered on the rest of her body as well, indicated a slight admixture of negro blood, although
her hands and arms were of an irreproachable whiteness.

"I hesitated what to do with her, and felt excited, tempted and rather confused, so in order
to gain time and to give myself an opportunity for reflection, I put other questions to her,
about her birth, how she came into this part of the country, and what her connection with Mohammed
was. But she only replied to those that interested me the least, and it was impossible for
me to find out why she had come, with what intention, by whose orders, nor what had taken place
between her and my servant. However, just as I was about to say to her: 'Go back to Mohammed's
tent,' she seemed to guess my intention, for getting up suddenly, and raising her two bare
arms, on which the jingling bracelets slipped down to her shoulders, she crossed her hands
behind my neck and drew me towards her with an irresistible air of suppliant longing.

"Her eyes, which were bright from emotion, from that necessity of conquering man, which makes
the looks of an impure woman as seductive as those of the feline tribe, allured me, enchained
me, deprived me of all the power of resistance, and filled me with impetuous ardor. It was
a short, sharp struggle of the eyes only, that eternal struggle between those two human brutes,
the male and the female, in which the male is always beaten.

"Her hands, which had clasped behind my head, drew me irresistibly, with a gentle, increasing
pressure, as if by mechanical force towards her red lips, on which I suddenly laid mine while,
at the same moment, I clasped her body, that was covered with jingling silver rings, in an
ardent embrace.

"She was as strong, as healthy, and as supple as a wild animal, with all the motions, the ways,
the grace, and even something of the odor of a gazelle, which made me find a rare, unknown
zest in her kisses, which was as strange to my senses as the taste of tropical fruits.

"Soon--I say soon, although it may have been towards morning--I wished to send her away, as
I thought that she would go in the same way that she had come; I did not, even, at the moment,
ask myself what I should do with her, or what she would do with me, but as soon as she guessed
my intention, she whispered:

"'What do you expect me to do if you get rid of me now? I shall have to sleep on the ground
in the open air at night. Let me sleep on the carpet, at the foot of your bed.'

"What answer could I give her, or what could I do? I thought that no doubt Mohammed also would
be watching the window of my room, in which a light was burning, and questions of various natures,
that I had not put to myself during the first minutes, formulated themselves clearly in my brain.

"'Stop here,' I replied, 'and we will talk.'

"My resolution was taken in a moment. As this girl had been thrown into my arms, in this manner,
I would keep her; I would make her a kind of slave-mistress, hidden in my house, like women
in a harem are. When the time should come that I no longer cared for her, it would be easy
for me to get rid of her in some way or another, for on African soil those sort of creatures
almost belong to us, body and soul, and so I said to her:

"'I wish to be kind to you, and I will treat you so that you shall not be unhappy, but I want
to know who you are and where you come from?'

"She saw clearly that she must say something, and she told me her story, or rather a story,
for no doubt she was lying from beginning to end, like all Arabs always do, with or without
any motive.

"That is one of the most surprising and incomprehensible signs of the native character--the
Arabs always lie. Those people in whom Islam has become so incarnate that it has become part
of themselves, to such an extent as to model their instincts and modifies the entire race,
and to differentiate it from others in morals just as much as the color of the skin differentiates
a negro from a white man, are liars to the backbone, so that one can never trust a word that
they say. I do not know whether they owe that to their religion, but one must have lived among
them in order to know the extent to which lying forms part of their being, of their heart and
soul, until it has become a kind of second nature, a very necessity of life, with them.

"Well, she told me that she was the daughter of a Caidi of the Ouled Sidi Cheik, and of a woman
whom he had carried off in a raid against the Touaregs. The woman must have been a black slave,
or, at any rate, have sprung from a first cross of Arab and negro blood. It is well known that
negro women are in great request for harems, where they act as aphrodisiacs. Nothing of such
an origin was to be noticed, however, except the purple color of her lips, and the dark nipples
of her elongated breasts, which were as supple as if they were on springs. Nobody who knew
anything about the matter, could be mistaken in that. But all the rest of her belonged to the
beautiful race from the South, fair, supple and with a delicate face which was formed on straight
and simple lines like those of a Hindoo figure. Her eyes, which were very far apart, still
further heightened the somewhat god-like looks of this desert marauder.

"I knew nothing exactly about her real life. She related it to me in incoherent fragments,
that seemed to rise up at random from a disordered memory, and she mixed up deliciously childish
observations with them; a whole vision of a Nomad world, born of a squirrel's brain that had
leapt from tent to tent, from encampment to encampment, from tribe to tribe. And all this was
done with the severe looks that this reserved people always preserve, with the appearance of
a brass idol, and rather comic gravity.

"When she had finished, I perceived that I had not remembered anything of that long story,
full of insignificant events, that she had stored up in her flighty brain, and I asked myself
whether she had not simply been making fun of me by her empty and would-be serious chatter,
which told me nothing about her, nor about any real facts connected with her life.

"And I thought of that conquered race, among whom we have encamped, or, rather, who are encamping
among us, whose language we are beginning to speak, whom we see every day, living under the
transparent linen of their tents, on whom we have imposed our laws, our regulations, and our
customs, and about whom we know nothing, nothing more whatever, I assure you, than if we were
not here, and solely occupied in looking at them, for nearly sixty years. We know no more about
what is going on in those huts made of branches, and under those small canvas cones that are
fastened to the ground by stakes, which are within twenty yards of our doors, than we know
what the so-called civilized Arabs of the Moorish houses in Algiers do, think, and are. Behind
the white-washed walls of their town houses, behind the partition of their gourbi, which is
made of branches, or behind that thin, brown, camel-haired curtain which the wind moves, they
live close to us, unknown, mysterious, cunning, submissive, smiling, impenetrable. What if
I were to tell you, that when I look at the neighboring encampment through my field glasses,
I guess that there are superstitions, customs, ceremonies, a thousand practices of which we
know nothing, and which we do not even suspect! Never previously, in all probability, did a
conquered race know so well how to escape so completely from the real domination, the moral
influence and the inveterate, but useless, investigations of the conquerors.

"Now I suddenly felt the insurmountable, secret barrier which incomprehensible nature had set
up between the two races, more than I had ever felt it before, between this girl and myself,
between this woman who had just given herself to me, who had yielded herself to my caresses
and to me, who had possessed her, and, thinking of it for the first time, I said to her: 'What
is your name?'

"She did not speak for some moments, and I saw her start, as if she had forgotten that I was
there, and then, in her eyes that were raised to mine, I saw that that moment had sufficed
for her to be overcome by sleep, by irresistible, sudden, almost overwhelming sleep, like everything
that lays hold of the mobile senses of women, and she answered, carelessly, suppressing a yawn:

"'Allouma.'

"'Do you want to go sleep?'

"'Yes,' she replied.

"'Very well then, go to sleep!'

"She stretched herself out tranquilly by my side, lying on her stomach, with her forehead resting
on her folded arms, and I felt almost immediately that fleeting, untutored thoughts were lulled
in repose, while I began to ponder, as I lay by her side, and tried to understand it all. Why
had Mohammed given her to me? Had he acted the part of a magnanimous servant, who sacrifices
himself for his master, even to the extent of giving up the woman whom he had brought into
his own tent, to him? Or had he, on the other hand, obeyed a more complex and more practical,
though less generous impulse, in handing over this girl who had taken my fancy, to my embrace?
An Arab, when it is a question of women, is rigorously modest and unspeakably complaisant,
and one can no more understand his rigorous and easy morality, than one can all the rest of
his sentiments. Perhaps, when I accidentally went to his tent, I had merely forestalled the
benevolent intentions of this thoughtful servant, who had intended this woman, who was his
friend and accomplice, or perhaps even his mistress, for me.

"All these suppositions assailed me, and fatigued me so much, that, at last, in my turn, I
fell into a profound sleep, from which I was roused by the creaking of my door, and Mohammed
came in, to call me as usual. He opened the window, through which a flood of light streamed
in, and fell onto Allouma who was still asleep; then he picked up my trousers, coat and waistcoat
from the floor in order to brush them. He did not look at the woman who was lying by my side,
did not seem to know or remark that she was there, and preserved his ordinary gravity, demeanor
and looks. But the light, the movement, the slight noise which his bare feet made, the feeling
of the fresh air on her skin and in her lungs, roused Allouma from her lethargy. She stretched
out her arms, turned over, opened her eyes, and looked at me and then Mohammed with the same
indifference; then she sat up in bed and said: 'I am hungry.'

"'What would you like?'

"'Kahoua.'

"'Coffee and bread and butter.'

"'Yes.'

"Mohammed remained standing close to our bed, with my clothes under his arm, waiting for my orders.

"'Bring breakfast for Allouma and me,' I said to him.

"He went out, without his face betraying the slightest astonishment or anger, and as soon as
he had left the room, I said to the girl:

"'Will you live in my house?'

"'I should like to, very much.'

"'I will give you a room to yourself, and a woman to wait on you.'

"'You are very generous, and I am grateful to you.'

"'But if you behave badly, I shall send you away immediately.'

"'I will do everything that you wish me to.'

"She took my hand, and kissed it as a token of submission, and just then Mohammed came in,
carrying a tray with our breakfast on it, and I said to him:--

"'Allouma is going to live here. You must spread a carpet on the floor of the room at the end
of the passage, and get Abd-El-Kader-El-Hadara's wife to come and wait on her.'

"'Yes, mo'ssieuia.'

"That was all.

"An hour later, my beautiful Arab was installed in a large, airy, light room, and when I went
in to see that everything was in order, she asked me in a supplicating voice, to give her a
wardrobe with a looking-glass in the doors. I promised her one, and then I left her squatting
on the carpet from Djebel-Amour, with a cigarette in her mouth, and gossiping with the old
Arab woman I had sent for, as if they had known each other for years."

II

"For a month I was very happy with her, and I got strangely attached to this creature belonging
to another race, who seemed to me almost to belong to some other species, and to have been
born on a neighboring planet.

"I did not love her; no, one does not love the women of that primitive continent. This small,
pale blue flower of Northern countries never unfolds between them and us, or even between them
and their natural males, the Arabs. They are too near to human animalism, their hearts are
too rudimentary, their feelings are not refined enough to rouse that sentimental exaltation
in us, which is the poetry of love. Nothing intellectual, no intoxication of thought or feeling
is mingled with that sensual intoxication which those charming nonentities excite in us. Nevertheless,
they captivate us like the others do, but in a different fashion, which is less tenacious,
and, at the same time, less cruel and painful.

"I cannot even now explain precisely what I felt for her. I said to you just now that this
country, this bare Africa, without any arts, void of all intellectual pleasures, gradually
captivates us by its climate, by the continual mildness of the dawn and sunset, by its delightful
light, and by the feeling of well-being with which it fills all our organs. Well, then! Allouma
captivated me in the same manner, by a thousand hidden, physical, alluring charms, and by the
procreative seductiveness, not of her embraces, for she was of thoroughly oriental supineness
in that respect, but of her sweet self-surrender.

"I left her absolutely free to come and go as she liked, and she certainly spent one afternoon
out of two with the wives of my native agricultural laborers. Often also, she would remain
for nearly a whole day admiring herself in front of a mahogany wardrobe with a large looking-glass
in the doors that I had got from Miliana.

"She admired herself conscientiously, standing before the glass doors, in which she followed
her own movements with profound and serious attention. She walked with her head somewhat thrown
back, in order to be able to see whether her hips and loins swayed properly; went away, came
back again, and then, tired with her own movements, she sat down on a cushion and remained
opposite to her own reflection, with her eyes fixed on her face in the glass, and her whole
soul absorbed in that picture.

"Soon, I began to notice that she went out nearly every morning after breakfast, and that she
disappeared altogether until evening, and as I felt rather anxious about this, I asked Mohammed
whether he knew what she could be doing during all these long hours of absence, but he replied
very calmly:

"'Do not be uneasy. It will be the Feast of Ramadan soon, and so she goes to say her prayers.'

"He also seemed delighted at having Allouma in the house, but I never once saw anything suspicious
between them, and so I accepted the situation as it was, and let time, accident, and life act
for themselves.

"Often, after I had inspected my farm, my vineyards, and my clearings, I used to take long
walks. You know the magnificent forests in this part of Algeria, those almost impenetrable
ravines, where fallen pine trees hem the mountain torrents, and those little valleys filled
with oleanders, which look like oriental carpets stretching along the banks of the streams.
You know that at every moment, in these woods and on these hills, where one would think that
nobody had ever penetrated, one suddenly sees the white dome of a shrine that contains the
bones of a humble, solitary marabout, which was scarcely visited from time to time, even by
the most confirmed believers, who had come from the neighboring villages with a wax candle
in their pocket, to set up before the tomb of the saint.

"Now one evening as I was going home, I was passing one of these Mohammedan chapels, and, looking
in through the door, which was always open, I saw a woman praying before the altar. That Arab
woman, sitting on the ground in that dilapidated building, into which the wind entered as it
pleased, and heaped up the fine, dry pine needles in yellow heaps in the corners. I went near
to see better, and recognized Allouma. She neither saw nor heard me, so absorbed was she with
the saint, to whom she was speaking in a low voice, as she thought that she was alone with
him, and telling this servant of God all her troubles. Sometimes she stopped for a short time
to think, to try and recollect what more she had to say, so that she might not forget anything
that she wished to confide to him; then, again, she would grow animated, as if he had replied
to her, as if he had advised her to do something that she did not want to do, and the reasons
for which she was impugning, and I went away as I had come, without making any noise, and returned
home to dinner.

"That evening, when I sent for her, I saw that she had a thoughtful look, which was not usual
with her.

"'Sit down there,' I said, pointing to her place on the couch by my side. As soon as she had
sat down, I stooped to kiss her, but she drew her head away quickly, and, in great astonishment,
I said to her:

"'Well, what is the matter?'

"'It is the Ramadan,' she said.

"I began to laugh, and said: 'And the Marabout has forbidden you to allow yourself to be kissed
during the Ramadan?'

"Oh, yes; I am an Arab woman, and you are a Roumi!'

"'And it would be a great sin?'

"'Oh, yes!'

"'So you ate nothing all day, until sunset?'

"'No, nothing.'

"'But you had something to eat after sundown?'

"'Yes.'

"'Well, then, as it is quite dark now, you ought not to be more strict about the rest than
you are about your mouth.'

"She seemed irritated, wounded, and offended, and replied with an amount of pride that I had
never noticed in her before:--

"'If an Arab girl were to allow herself to be touched by a Roumi during the Ramadan, she would
be cursed for ever.'

"'And that is to continue for a whole month?'

"'Yes, for the whole of the month of Ramadan,' she replied, with great determination.

"I assumed an irritated manner and said:--'Very well, then, you can go and spend the Ramadan
with your family.'

"She seized my hands, and, laying them on my heart, she said:--

"'Oh! Please do not be unkind, and you shall see how nice I will be. We will keep Ramadan together,
if you like. I will look after you, and spoil you, but don't be unkind.'

"I could not help smiling at her funny manner and her unhappiness, and I sent her to go to
sleep at home, but, an hour later, just as I was thinking about going to bed, there came two
little taps at my door, which were so slight, however, that I scarcely heard them; but when
I said:--'Come in,' Allouma appeared carrying a large tray covered with Arab dainties; fried
balls of rice, covered with sugar, and a variety of other strange, Nomad pastry.

"She laughed, showing her white teeth, and repeated:--'Come, we will keep Ramadan together.'

"You know that the fast, which begins at dawn and ends at twilight, at the moment when the
eye can no longer distinguish a black from a white thread, is followed every evening by small,
friendly entertainments, at which eating is kept up until the morning, and the result is that
for such of the natives as are not very scrupulous, Ramadan consists of turning day into night,
and night into day. But Allouma carried her delicacy of conscience further than this. She placed
her tray between us on the divan, and taking a small, sugared ball between her long, slender
fingers, she put it into my mouth, and whispered:--'Eat it, it is very good.'

"I munched the light cake, which was really excellent, and asked her:--'Did you make that?'

"'Yes.'

"'For me?'

"'Yes, for you.'

"'To enable me to support Ramadan?'

"'Oh! Don't be so unkind! I will bring you some every day.'

"Oh! the terrible month that I spent! A sugared, insipidly sweet month; a month that nearly
drove me mad; a month of spoiling and of temptation, of anger and of vain efforts against an
invincible resistance, but at last the three days of Beiram came, which I celebrated in my
own fashion, and Ramadan was forgotten.

"The summer went on, and it was very hot, and in the first days of autumn, Allouma appeared
to me to be pre-occupied and absent-minded, and, seemingly, taking no interest in anything,
and, at last, when I sent for her one evening, she was not to be found in her room. I thought
that she was roaming about the house, and I gave orders to look for her. She had not come in,
however, and so I opened my window, and called out:--

"'Mohammed,' and the voice of the man, who was lying in his tent, replied:--

"'Yes, mo'ssieuia.'

"'Do you know where Allouma is?'

"'No, mo'ssieuia ... it is not possible ... is Allouma lost?'

"A few moments later, my Arab came into my room, so agitated that he could not master his feelings,
and I said:

"'Is Allouma lost?'

"'Yes, she is lost.'

"'It is impossible.'

"'Go and look for her,' I said.

"He remained standing where he was, thinking, seeking for her motives, and unable to understand
anything about it. Then he went into the empty room, where Allouma's clothes were lying about,
in oriental disorder. He examined everything, as if he had been a police officer, or, rather,
he smelt like a dog, and then, incapable of a lengthened effort, he murmured, resignedly:--

"'She has gone, she has gone!'

"I was afraid that some accident had happened to her; that she had fallen into some ravine
and sprained herself, and I immediately sent all the men about the place off with orders to
look for her until they should find her, and they hunted for her all that night, all the next
day, and all the week long, but nothing was discovered that could put us upon her track. I
suffered, for I missed her very much; my house seemed empty, and my existence a void. And then,
disgusting thoughts entered my mind. I feared that she might have been carried off, or even
murdered, but when I spoke about it to Mohammed, and tried to make him share my fears, he invariably
replied:

"'No; gone away.'

"Then he added the Arab word r'ezale, which means gazelle, as if he meant to say that she could
run quickly, and that she was far away.

"Three weeks passed, and I had given up all hopes of seeing my Arab mistress again, when one
morning Mohammed came into my room, with every sign of joy in his face, and said to me:

"'Mo'ssieuia, Allouma has come back.'

"I jumped out of bed and said:

"'Where is she?'

"'She does not dare to come in! There she is, under the tree.'

"And stretching out his arm, he pointed out to me, through the window, a whitish spot at the
foot of an olive tree.

"I got up immediately, and went out to where she was. As I approached what looked like a mere
bundle of linen thrown against the gnarled trunk of the tree, I recognized the large, dark
eyes, the tattooed stars, and the long, regular features of that semi-wild girl who had so
captivated my senses. As I advanced towards her, I felt inclined to strike her, to make her
suffer pain, and to have my revenge, and so I called out to her from a little distance:

"'Where have you been?'

"She did not reply, but remained motionless and inert, as if she were scarcely alive, resigned
to my violence, and ready to receive my blows. I was standing up, close to her, looking in
stupefaction at the rags with which she was covered, at those bits of silk and muslin, covered
with dust, torn and dirty, and I repeated, raising my hand, as if she had been a dog:

"'Where have you come from?'

"'From yonder,' she said, in a whisper.

"'Where is that?'

"'From the tribe.'

"'What tribe?'

"'Mine.'

"'Why did you go away?'

"When she saw that I was not going to beat her, she grew rather bolder, and said in a low voice:
"'I was obliged to do it.... I was forced to go, I could not stop in the house any longer.'

"I saw tears in her eyes, and immediately felt softened. I leaned over her, and when I turned
round to sit down, I noticed Mohammed, who was watching us at a distance, and I went on, very
gently:

"'Come, tell me why you ran away?'

"Then she told me, that for a long time in her Nomad's heart she had felt the irresistible
desire to return to the tents, to lie, to run, to roll on the sand; to wander about the plains
with the flocks, to feel nothing over her head, between the yellow stars in the sky and the
blue stars in her face, except the thin, threadbare, patched stuff, through which she could
see spots of fire in the sky, when she awoke during the night.

"She made me understand all that in such simple and powerful words, that I felt quite sure
that she was not lying, and pitied her, and I asked her:

"'Why did you not tell me that you wished to go away for a time?'

"'Because you would not have allowed me...'

"'If you had promised to come back, I should have consented.'

"'You would not have believed me.'

"Seeing that I was not angry, she began to laugh, and said:

"'You see that is all over; I have come home again, and here I am. I only wanted a few days
there. I have had enough of it now, it is finished and passed; the feeling is cured. I have
come back, and have not that longing any more. I am very glad, and you are very kind.'

"'Come into the house,' I said to her.

"She got up, and I took her hand, her delicate hand, with its slender fingers, and triumphant
in her rags, with her bracelets and her necklace ringing, she went gravely towards my house,
where Mohammed was waiting for us, but before going in, I said:

"'Allouma, whenever you want to return to your own people, tell me, and I will allow you to go.'

"'You promise?'

"'Yes, I promise.'

"'And I will make you a promise also. When I feel ill or unhappy'--and here she put her hand
to her forehead, with a magnificent gesture--'I shall say to you: "I must go yonder," and you
will let me go.'

"I went with her to her room, followed by Mohammed, who was carrying some water, for there
had been no time to tell the wife of Abd-el-Kader-el-Hadam that her mistress had returned.
As soon as she got into the room, and saw the wardrobe with the looking-glass in the door,
she ran up to it, like a child does when it sees its mother. She looked at herself for a few
seconds, made a grimace, and then in a rather cross voice, she said to the looking-glass:

"'Just you wait a moment; I have some silk dresses in the wardrobe. I shall be beautiful in
a few minutes.'

"And I left her alone, to act the coquette to herself.

"Our life began its usual course again, as formerly, and I felt more and more under the influence
of the strange, merely physical attractions of that girl, for whom, at the same time, I felt
a kind of paternal contempt. For two months all went well, and then I felt that she was again
becoming nervous, agitated, and rather low-spirited, and one day I said to her:--

"'Do you want to return home again?'

"'Yes.'

"'And you did not dare to tell me?'

"'I did not venture to.'

"'Go, if you wish to; I give you leave.'

"She seized my hands and kissed them, as she did in all her outbursts of gratitude, and the
same morning she disappeared.

"She came back, as she had done the first time, at the end of about three weeks, in rags, covered
with dust, and satiated with her Nomad life of sand and liberty. In two years she returned
to her own people four times in this fashion.

"I took her back, gladly, without any feelings of jealousy, for with me jealousy can only spring
from love as we Europeans understand it. I might very likely have killed her if I had surprised
her in the act of deceiving me, but I should have done it, just as one half kills a disobedient
dog, from sheer violence. I should not have felt those torments, that consuming fire--Northern
jealousy. I have just said that I should have killed her like a disobedient dog, and, as a
matter of fact, I loved her somewhat in the same manner as one loves some very highly bred
horse or dog, which it is impossible to replace. She was a splendid animal, a sensual animal,
an animal made for pleasure, and which possessed the body of a woman.

"I cannot tell you what an immeasurable distance separated our two souls, although our hearts
perhaps occasionally warmed towards each other. She was something belonging to my house, she
was part of my life, she had become a very agreeable, daily, regular requirement with me, to
which I clung, and which the sensual man in me loved, that in me which was only eyes and sensuality.

"Well, one morning, Mohammed came into my room with a strange look on his face, that uneasy
look of the Arabs, which resembles the furtive look of a cat, face to face with a dog, and
when I noticed his expression, I said:

"'What is the matter, now?'

"'Allouma has gone away.'

"I began to laugh, and said:--'Where has she gone to?'

"'Gone away altogether, mo'ssieuia!'

"'What do you mean by gone away altogether; you are mad, my man.'

"'No, mo'ssieuia.'

"'Why has she gone away? Just explain yourself; come!'

"He remained motionless, and evidently did not wish to speak, and then he had one of those
explosions of Arab rage, which make us stop in streets in front of two demoniacs, whose oriental
silence and gravity suddenly give place to the most violent gesticulations, and the most ferocious
vociferations, and I gathered, amidst his shouts, that Allouma had run away with my shepherd,
and when I had partially succeeded in calming him, I managed to extract the facts from him
one by one.

"It was a long story, but at last I gathered that he had been watching my mistress, who used
to meet a sort of vagabond whom my steward had hired the month before, behind the neighboring
cactus woods, or in the ravine where the oleanders flourished. The night before, Mohammed had
seen her go out without seeing her return, and he repeated, in an exasperated manner:--'Gone,
mo'ssieuia; she has gone away!'

"I do not know why, but his conviction, the conviction that she had run away with this vagabond,
laid hold of me irresistibly in a moment. It was absurd, unlikely, and yet certain in virtue
of that very unreasonableness, which constitutes female logic.

"Boiling over with indignation, I tried to recall the man's features, and I suddenly remembered
having seen him the previous week, standing on a mound amidst his flock, and watching me. He
was a tall Bedouin, the color of whose bare limbs was blended with that of his rags; he was
a type of a barbarous brute, with high cheek bones, and a hooked nose, a retreating chin, thin
legs, and a tall carcass in rags, with the shifty eyes of a jackal.

"I did not doubt for a moment that she had run away with that beggar. Why? Because she was
Allouma, a daughter of the desert. A girl from the pavement in Paris would have run away with
my coachman, or some thief in the suburbs.

"'Very well,' I said to Mohammed. Then I got up, opened my window, and began to draw in the
stifling South wind, for the sirocco was blowing, and I thought to myself:--

"Good heavens! she is ... a woman, like so many others. Does anybody know what makes them act,
what makes them love, what makes them follow, or throw over a man? One certainly does know,
occasionally; but often one does not, and sometimes one is in doubt. Why did she run away with
that repulsive brute? Why? Perhaps, because the wind had been blowing regularly from the South,
for a month; that was enough; a breath of wind! Does she know, do they know, even the cleverest
of them, why they act? No more than a weather-cock that turns with the wind. An imperceptible
breeze, makes the iron, brass, zinc, or wooden arrow revolve, just in the same manner as some
imperceptible influence, some undiscernible impression moves the female heart, and urges it
on to resolutions, and it does not matter whether they belong to town or country, the suburbs
or the desert.

"They can then feel, provided that they reason and understand, why they have done one thing
rather than another, but, for the moment, they do not know, for they are the playthings of
their own sensibility, the thoughtless, giddy-headed slaves of events, of their surroundings,
of chance meetings, and of all the sensations with which their soul and their body trembles!"

Monsieur Auballe had risen, and, after walking up and down the room once or twice, he looked
at me, and said, with a smile:--

"That is love in the desert!"

"Suppose she were to come back?" I asked him.

"Horrid girl!" he replied.

"But I should be very glad if she did return to me."

"And you would pardon the shepherd?"

"Good heavens, yes! With women, one must always pardon ... or else pretend not to see things."

A FAMILY AFFAIR

The Neuilly steam-tram had just passed the Porte Maillot, and was going along the broad avenue
that terminates at the Seine. The small engine that was attached to the car whistled to warn
any obstacle to get out of its way, sent out its steam, and panted like a person out of breath
from running does, and its pistons made a rapid noise, like iron legs that were running. The
oppressive heat of the end of a July day lay over the whole city, and from the road, although
there was not a breath of wind stirring, there arose a white, chalky, opaque, suffocating,
and warm dust, which stuck to the moist skin, filled the eyes, and got into the lungs, and
people were standing in the doors of their houses in search of a little air.

The windows of the steam-tram were down, and the curtains fluttered in the wind, and there
were very few passengers inside, because on such warm days people preferred the top or the
platforms. Those few consisted of stout women in strange toilets, of those shopkeepers' wives
from the suburbs, who made up for the distinguished looks which they did not possess, by ill-timed
dignity; of gentlemen who were tired of the office, with yellow-faces, who stooped rather,
and with one shoulder higher than the other, in consequence of their long hours of work bending
over the desk. Their uneasy and melancholy faces also spoke of domestic troubles, of constant
want of money, of former hopes, that had been finally disappointed; for they all belonged to
that army of poor, threadbare devils who vegetate economically in mean, plastered houses, with
a tiny piece of neglected garden in the midst of those fields where night soil is deposited,
which are on the outskirts of Paris.

A short, fat man, with a puffy face and a big stomach, dressed all in black, and wearing a
decoration in his button-hole, was talking to a tall, thin man, dressed in a dirty, white linen
suit, that was all unbuttoned, with a white Panama hat on. The former spoke so slowly and hesitatingly,
that it occasionally almost seemed as if he stammered; he was Monsieur Caravan, chief clerk
in the Admiralty. The other, who had formerly been surgeon on board a merchant ship, had set
up in practice in Courbevoie, where he applied the vague remnants of medical knowledge which
he had retained after an adventurous life, to the wretched population of that district. His
name was Chenet, and strange rumors were current as to his morality.

Monsieur Caravan had always led the normal life of a man in a Government office. For the last
thirty years he had invariably gone the same way to his office every morning, and had met the
same men going to business at the same time and nearly on the same spot, and he returned home
every evening the same way, and again met the same faces which he had seen growing old. Every
morning, after buying his halfpenny paper at the corner of the Faubourg Saint Honoré, he bought
his two rolls, and then he went into his office, like a culprit who is giving himself up to
justice, and he got to his desk as quickly as possible, always feeling uneasy, as he was expecting
a rebuke for some neglect of duty of which he might have been guilty.

Nothing had ever occurred to change the monotonous order of his existence, for no event affected
him except the work of his office, perquisites, gratuities, and promotion. He never spoke of
anything but of his duties, either at the Admiralty or at home, for he had married the portionless
daughter of one of his colleagues. His mind, which was in a state of atrophy from his depressing
daily work, had no other thoughts, hopes or dreams than such as related to the office, and
there was a constant source of bitterness that spoilt every pleasure that he might have had,
and that was the employment of so many commissioners of the navy, tinmen, as they were called,
because of their silver-lace, as first-class clerks; and every evening at dinner he discussed
the matter hotly with his wife, who shared his angry feelings, and proved to their own satisfaction
that it was in every way unjust to give places in Paris, to men who ought to be employed in
the navy.

He was old now, and had scarcely noticed how his life was passing, for school had merely been
exchanged, without any transition, for the office, and the ushers, at whom he had formerly
trembled, were replaced by his chiefs, whom he was terribly afraid of. When he had to go into
the rooms of these official despots, it made him tremble from head to foot, and that constant
fear had given him a very awkward manner in their presence, a humble demeanor, and a kind of
nervous stammering.

He knew nothing more about Paris than a blind man could know, who was led to the same spot
by his dog every day, and if he read the account of any uncommon events, or of scandals, in
his halfpenny paper, they appeared to him like fantastic tales, which some pressman had made
up out of his own head, in order to amuse the inferior employés. He did not read the political
news, which his paper frequently altered, as the cause which subsidized them might require,
for he was not fond of innovations, and when he went through the Avenue of the Champs-Elysées
every evening, he looked at the surging crowd of pedestrians, and at the stream of carriages,
like a traveler who has lost his way in a strange country.

As he had completed his thirty years of obligatory service that year, on the first of January,
he had had the cross of the Legion of Honor bestowed upon him, which, in the semi-military
public offices, is a recompense for the miserable slavery--the official phrase is, loyal services
of unfortunate convicts who are riveted to their desk. That unexpected dignity gave him a high
and new idea of his own capacities, and altogether altered him. He immediately left off wearing
light trousers and fancy waistcoats, and wore black trousers and long coats, on which his ribbon,
which was very broad, showed off better. He got shaved every morning, trimmed his nails more
carefully, changed his linen every two days, from a legitimate sense of what was proper, and
of respect for the national Order, of which he formed a part, and from that day he was another
Caravan, scrupulously clean, majestic and condescending.

At home, he said, "my cross," at every moment, and he had become so proud of it, that he could
not bear to see other men wearing any other ribbon in their button-holes. He got especially
angry on seeing strange orders:--"Which nobody ought to be allowed to wear in France," and
he bore Chenet a particular grudge, as he met him on a tramcar every evening, wearing a decoration
of some sort or another, white, blue, orange, or green.

The conversation of the two men, from the Arc de Triomphe to Neuilly, was always the same,
and on that day they discussed, first of all, various local abuses which disgusted them both,
and the Mayor of Neuilly received his full share of their blame. Then, as invariably happens
in the company of a medical man, Caravan began to enlarge on the chapter of illness, as, in
that manner, he hoped to obtain a little gratuitous advice, if he was careful not to show his
book. His mother had been causing him no little anxiety for some time; she had frequent and
prolonged fainting fits, and, although she was ninety, she would not take care of herself.

Caravan grew quite tender-hearted when he mentioned her great age, and more than once asked
Doctor Chenet, emphasizing the word doctor--although he had no right to the title, being only
an Officier de Santé, and, as such, not fully qualified--whether he had often met anyone as
old as that. And he rubbed his hands with pleasure; not, perhaps, that he cared very much about
seeing the good woman last for ever here on earth, but because the long duration of his mother's
life was, as it were, an earnest of old age for himself, and he continued:

"Oh! In my family, we last long, and I am sure that, unless I meet with an accident, I shall
not die until I am very old."

The medico looked at him with pity, and glanced for a moment at his neighbor's red face, his
short, thick neck, his "corporation," as Chenet called it to himself, that hung down between
two flaccid, fat legs, and his apoplectic rotundity of the old, flabby official, and, lifting
the white Panama hat which he wore, from his head, he said, with a snigger:--

"I am not so sure of that, old fellow; your mother is as tough as nails, and I should say that
your life is not a very good one."

This rather upset Caravan, who did not speak again until the tram put them down at their destination,
where the two friends got out, and Chenet asked his friend to have a glass of vermouth at the
Café du Globe, opposite, which both of them were in the habit of frequenting. The proprietor,
who was a friend of theirs, held out two fingers to them, which they shook across the bottles
on the counter, and then they joined three of their friends, who were playing at dominoes,
and who had been there since midday. They exchanged cordial greetings, with the usual inquiries:--"Anything
fresh?" and then the three players continued their game, and held out their hands without looking
up, when the others wished them "Good-night," and then they both went home to dinner.

Caravan lived in a small, two-storied house in Courbevoie, near where the roads meet; the ground
floor was occupied by a hair-dresser. Two bedrooms, a dining-room and a kitchen, formed the
whole of their apartments, and Madame Caravan spent nearly her whole time in cleaning them
up, while her daughter, Marie-Louise, who was twelve, and her son, Philippe-Auguste, were running
about with all the little, dirty, mischievous brats of the neighborhood, and playing in the
gutters.

Caravan had installed his mother, whose avarice was notorious in the neighborhood, and who
was terribly thin, in the room above them. She was always in a bad temper, and she never passed
a day without quarreling and flying into furious tempers. She used to apostrophize the neighbors,
who were standing at their own doors, the coster-mongers, the street-sweepers, and the street-boys,
in the most violent language, and the latter, to have their revenge, used to follow her at
a distance when she went out, and call out rude things after her.

A little servant from Normandy, who was incredibly giddy and thoughtless, performed the household
work, and slept on the second floor, in the same room as the old woman, for fear of anything
happening to her in the night.

When Caravan got in, his wife, who suffered from a chronic passion for cleaning, was polishing
up the mahogany chairs that were scattered about the room, with a piece of flannel. She always
wore cotton gloves, and adorned her head with a cap, which was ornamented with many colored
ribbons, which was always tilted on one ear, and whenever anyone caught her polishing, sweeping,
or washing, she used to say:--

"I am not rich; everything is very simple in my house, but cleanliness is my luxury, and that
is worth quite as much as any other."

As she was gifted with sound, obstinate, practical common sense, she led her husband in everything.
Every evening during dinner, and afterwards, when they were in bed, they talked over the business
in the office for a long time, and, although she was twenty years younger than he, he confided
everything to her, as if she had had the direction, and followed her advice in every matter.

She had never been pretty, and now she had grown ugly; in addition to that, she was short and
thin, while her careless and tasteless way of dressing herself, hid her few, small feminine
attributes, which might have been brought out if she had possessed any skill in dress. Her
petticoats were always awry, and she frequently scratched herself, no matter on what place,
totally indifferent as to who might see her, and so persistently that anybody who saw her,
would think that she was suffering from something like the itch. The only ornaments that she
allowed herself were silk ribbons, which she had in great profusion, and of various colors
mixed together, in the pretentious caps which she wore at home.

As soon as she saw her husband she got up and said, as she kissed his whiskers:

"Did you remember Potin, my dear?"

He fell into a chair, in consternation, for that was the fourth time on which he had forgotten
a commission that he had promised to do for her.

"It is a fatality," he said; "it is no good for me to think of it all day long, for I am sure
to forget it in the evening."

But as she seemed really so very sorry, she merely said, quietly:

"You will think of it to-morrow, I daresay. Anything fresh at the office?"

"Yes, a great piece of news: another tinman has been appointed second chief clerk," and she
became very serious.

"So he succeeds Ramon, this was the very post that I wanted you to have. And what about Ramon?"

"He retires on his pension."

She grew furious, and her cap slid down on her shoulder, and she continued:

"There is nothing more to be done in that shop now. And what is the name of the new commissioner?"

"Bonassot."

She took up the Naval Year Book, which she always kept close at hand, and looked him up.

"'Bonassot--Toulon. Born in 1851. Student-Commissioner in 1871. Sub-Commissioner in 1875.'
Has he been to sea?" she continued, and at that question Caravan's looks cleared up, and he
laughed until his sides shook.

"Just like Balin--just like Balin, his chief." And he added an old office joke, and laughed
more than ever:

"It would not even do to send them by water to inspect the Point-du-Jour, for they would be
sick on the penny steamboats on the Seine."

But she remained as serious as if she had not heard him, and then she said in a low voice,
while she scratched her chin:

"If only we had a Deputy to fall back upon. When the Chamber hears everything that is going
on at the Admiralty, the Minister will be turned out..."

She was interrupted by a terrible noise on the stairs. Marie-Louise and Philippe-Auguste, who
had just come in from the gutter, were giving each other slaps all the way upstairs. Their
mother rushed at them furiously, and taking each of them by an arm, she dragged them into the
room, shaking them vigorously, but as soon as they saw their father, they rushed up to him,
and he kissed them affectionately, and taking one of them on each knee, he began to talk to them.

Philippe-Auguste was an ugly, ill-kempt little brat, dirty from head to foot, with the face
of an idiot, and Marie-Louise was already like her mother--spoke like her, repeated her words,
and even imitated her movements. She also asked him whether there was anything fresh at the
office, and he replied merrily:

"Your friend, Ramon, who comes and dines here every Sunday, is going to leave us, little one.
There is a new second head-clerk."

She looked at her father, and with a precocious child's pity, she said:

"So somebody has been put over your head again!"

He stopped laughing, and did not reply, and then, in order, to create a diversion, he said,
addressing his wife, who was cleaning the windows:

"How is mamma, up there?"

Madame Caravan left off rubbing, turned round, pulled her cap up, as it had fallen quite on
to her back, and said, with trembling lips:

"Ah! yes; just speak to your mother about this, for she has created a pretty scene. Just think
that a short time ago Madame Lebaudin, the hairdresser's wife, came upstairs to borrow a packet
of starch of me, and, as I was not at home, your mother called her a beggar woman, and turned
her out; but I gave it to the old woman. She pretended not to hear, like she always does when
one tells her unpleasant truths, but she is no more deaf than I am, as you know. It is all
a sham, and the proof of it is, that she went up to her own room immediately, without saying
a word."

Caravan did not utter a word, and at that moment the little servant came in to announce dinner.
In order to let his mother know, he took a broom-handle, which always stood in a corner, and
rapped loudly on the ceiling three times, and they went into the dining-room. Madame Caravan,
junior, helped the soup, and waited for the old woman, but she did not come, and the soup was
getting cold, so they began to eat slowly, and when their plates were empty, they waited again,
and Madame Caravan, who was furious, attacked her husband:

"She does it on purpose, you know that as well as I do. But you always uphold her."

He, in great perplexity between the two, sent Marie-Louise to fetch her grandmother, and he
sat motionless, with his eyes down, while his wife tapped her glass angrily with her knife.
In about a minute, the door flew open suddenly, and the child came in again, out of breath
and very pale, and said very quickly:

"Grandmamma has fallen down on the ground."

Caravan jumped up, threw his table-napkin down, and rushed upstairs, while his wife, who thought
it was some trick of her mother-in-law's, followed more slowly, shrugging her shoulders, as
if to express her doubt. When they got upstairs, however, they found the old woman lying at
full length in the middle of the room, and when they turned her over they saw that she was
insensible and motionless, while her skin looked more wrinkled and yellow than usual, and her
eyes were closed, her teeth clenched, and her thin body was stiff.

Caravan knelt down by her, and began to moan:

"My poor mother! my poor mother!" he said. But the other Madame Caravan said:

"Bah! She has only fainted again, that is all, and she has done it to prevent us from dining
comfortably, you may be sure of that."

They put her on the bed, undressed her completely, and Caravan, his wife, and the servant began
to rub her, but, in spite of their efforts, she did not recover consciousness, so they sent
Rosalie, the servant, to fetch Doctor Chenet. He lived a long way off, on the quay going towards
Suresnes, and so it was considerable time before he arrived. He came at last, however, and,
after having looked at the old woman, felt her pulse, auscultated her, he said:--"It is all over."

Caravan threw himself on the body, sobbing violently; he kissed his mother's rigid face, and
wept so, that great tears fell on the dead woman's face, like drops of water, and, naturally,
Madame Caravan, Junior, showed a decorous amount of grief, and uttered feeble moans, as she
stood behind her husband, while she rubbed her eyes vigorously.

But, suddenly, Caravan raised himself up, with his thin hair in disorder, and, looking very
ugly in his grief, said:--

"But ... are you sure, doctor?... Are you quite sure?..."

The medical stooped over the body, and, handling it with professional dexterity, like a shopkeeper
might do, when showing off his goods, he said:--"See, my dear friend, look at her eye."

He raised the eyelid, and the old woman's looks reappeared under his finger, and were altogether
unaltered, unless, perhaps, the pupil was rather larger, and Caravan felt a severe shock at
the sight. Then Monsieur Chenet took her thin arm, forced the fingers open, and said, angrily,
as if he had been contradicted:

"Just look at her hand; I never make a mistake, you may be quite sure of that."

Caravan fell on the bed, and almost bellowed, while his wife, still whimpering, did what was
necessary.

She brought the night-table, on which she spread a table napkin, and placed four wax candles
on it, which she lighted; then she took a sprig of box, which was hanging over the chimney
glass, and put it between the candles, into the plate, which she filled with clean water, as
she had no holy water. But, after a moment's rapid reflection, she threw a pinch of salt into
the water, no doubt, thinking she was performing some sort of act of consecration by doing
that, and when she had finished, she remained standing motionless, and the medical man, who
had been helping her, whispered to her:

"We must take Caravan away."

She nodded assent, and, going up to her husband, who was still on his knees, sobbing, she raised
him up by one arm, while Chenet took him by the other.

They put him into a chair, and his wife kissed his forehead, and then began to lecture him.
Chenet enforced her words, and preached firmness, courage, and resignation--the very things
which are always wanting in such overwhelming misfortunes--and then both of them took him by
the arms again and led him out.

He was crying like a great child, with convulsive hiccoughs; his arms were hanging down, and
his legs seemed useless, and he went downstairs without knowing what he was doing, and moving
his legs mechanically. They put him into the chair which he always occupied at dinner, in front
of his empty soup plate. And there he sat, without moving, with his eyes fixed on his glass,
and so stupefied with grief, that he could not even think.

In a corner, Madame Caravan was talking with the doctor, and asking what the necessary formalities
were, as she wanted to obtain practical information. At last, Monsieur Chenet, who appeared
to be waiting for something, took up his hat and prepared to go, saying that he had not dined
yet; whereupon, she exclaimed:--

"What! you have not dined? But stop here, doctor; don't go. You shall have whatever we can
give you, for, of course, you will understand that we do not fare sumptuously." However, he
made excuses and refused, but she persisted, and said:--

"You really must stop; at times like this, people like to have friends near them, and, besides
that, perhaps you will be able to persuade my husband to take some nourishment; he must keep
up his strength."

The doctor bowed, and, putting down his hat, he said:--

"In that case, I will accept your invitation, Madame."

She gave Rosalie, who seemed to have lost her head, some orders, and then sat down, "to pretend
to eat," as she said, "to keep the doctor company."

The soup was brought in again, and Monsieur Chenet took two helpings. Then there came a dish
of tripe, which exhaled a smell of onions, and which Madame Caravan made up her mind to taste.

"It is excellent," the doctor said, at which she smiled, and, turning to her husband, she said:--

"Do take a little, my poor Alfred, only just to put something into your stomach. Remember you
have got to pass the night watching by her!"

He held out his plate, docilely, just as he would have gone to bed, if he had been told to,
obeying her in everything, without resistance and without reflection, and, therefore, he ate;
the doctor helped himself three times, while Madame Caravan, from time to time, fished out
a large piece at the end of her fork, and swallowed it with a sort of studied inattention.

When a salad bowl full of macaroni was brought in, the doctor said:

"By Jove! That is what I am very fond of." And this time, Madame Caravan helped everybody.
She even filled the children's saucers, which they had scraped clean, and who, being left to
themselves, had been drinking wine without any water, and were now kicking each other under
the table.

Chenet remembered that Rossini, the composer, had been very fond of that Italian dish, and
suddenly he exclaimed:--

"Why! that rhymes, and one could begin some lines like this:

  "The Maestro Rossini
  Was fond of macaroni."

Nobody listened to him, however. Madame Caravan, who had suddenly grown thoughtful, was thinking
of all the probable consequences of the event, while her husband made bread pellets, which
he put on the table-cloth, and looked at with a fixed, idiotic stare. As he was devoured by
thirst, he was continually raising his glass full of wine to his lips, and the consequences
were that his senses, which had already been rather upset by the shock and grief, seemed to
dance about vaguely in his head, as if they were going to vanish altogether.

Meanwhile, the doctor, who had been drinking away steadily, was getting visibly drunk, and
Madame Caravan herself felt the reaction which follows all nervous shocks, and was agitated
and excited, and although she had been drinking nothing but water, she felt her head rather
confused.

By-and-bye, Chenet began to relate stories of deaths, that appeared funny to him. In that suburb
of Paris, that is full of people from the provinces, one meets with that indifference towards
death were it even a father or mother, which all peasants show; that want of respect, that
unconscious ferociousness which is so common in the country, and so rare in Paris, and he said:

"Why, I was sent for last week to the Rue du Puteaux, and when I went, I found the sick person
(and there was the whole family calmly sitting near the bed) finishing a bottle of liquor of
aniseed, which had been bought the night before to satisfy the dying man's fancy."

But Madame Caravan was not listening; she was continually thinking of the inheritance, and
Caravan was incapable of understanding anything.

Soon coffee was served, which had been made very strong, and as every cup was well qualified
with cognac, it made all their faces red, and confused their ideas still more; to make matters
still worse, Chenet suddenly seized the brandy bottle and poured out "a drop just to wash their
mouths out with," as he termed it, for each of them, and then, without speaking any more, overcome
in spite of themselves, by that feeling of animal comfort which alcohol affords after dinner,
they slowly sipped the sweet cognac, which formed a yellowish syrup at the bottom of their cups.

The children had gone to sleep, and Rosalie carried them off to bed, and then, Caravan, mechanically
obeying that wish to forget oneself which possesses all unhappy persons, helped himself to
brandy again several times, and his dull eyes grew bright. At last the doctor rose to go, and
seizing his friend's arm, he said:

"Come with me; a little fresh air will do you good. When one is in trouble, one must not stick
to one spot."

The other obeyed mechanically, put on his hat, took his stick, and went out, and both of them
went arm-in-arm towards the Seine, in the starlight night.

The air was warm and sweet, for all the gardens in the neighborhood were full of flowers at
that season of the year, and their scent, which is scarcely perceptible during the day, seemed
to awaken at the approach of night, and mingled with the light breezes which blew upon them
in the darkness.

The broad avenue, with its two rows of gaslamps, that extended as far as the Arc de Triomphe,
was deserted and silent, but there was the distant roar of Paris, which seemed to have a reddish
vapor hanging over it. It was a kind of continual rumbling, which was at times answered by
the whistle of a train at full speed, in the distance, traveling to the ocean, through the
provinces.

The fresh air on the faces of the two men rather overcame them at first, made the doctor lose
his equilibrium a little, and increased Caravan's giddiness, from which he had suffered since
dinner. He walked as if he were in a dream; his thoughts were paralyzed, although he felt no
grief, for he was in a state of mental torpor that prevented him from suffering, and he even
felt a sense of relief which was increased by the mildness of the night.

When they reached the bridge they turned to the right, and they got the fresh breeze from the
river. It rolled along, calm and melancholy, bordered by tall poplar trees, and the stars looked
as if they were floating on the water and were moving with the current. A slight, white mist
that floated over the opposite banks, filled their lungs with a sensation of cold, and Caravan
stopped suddenly, for he was struck by that smell from the water, which brought back old memories
to his mind. For he, suddenly, in his mind, saw his mother again, in Picardy, as he had seen
her years before, kneeling in front of their door, and washing the heaps of linen, by her side,
in the stream that ran through their garden. He almost fancied that he could hear the sound
of the wooden beetle with which she beat the linen, in the calm silence of the country, and
her voice, as she called out to him:

"Alfred, bring me some soap." And he smelt that odor of the trickling water, of the mist rising
from the wet ground, the heap of wet linen, which he should never forget, and which came back
to him on the very evening on which his mother died.

He stopped, with a feeling of despair, and felt heartbroken at that eternal separation. His
life seemed cut in half, all his youth disappeared, swallowed up by that death. All the former
life was over and done with, all the recollections of his youthful days would vanish; for the
future, there would be nobody to talk to him of what had happened in days gone by, of the people
he had known of old, of his own part of the country, and of his past life; that was a part
of his existence which existed no longer, and the other might as well end now.

And then he saw Mamma as she was when younger, wearing well-worn dresses, which he remembered
for such a long time that they seemed inseparable from her; he recollected her movements, the
different tones of her voice, her habits, her manias, her fits of anger, the wrinkles on her
face, the movements of her thin fingers, and all her well-known attitudes, which she would
never have again, and clutching hold of the doctor, he began to moan and weep. His lank legs
began to tremble, his whole, stout body was shaken by his sobs, all he could say was:

"My mother, my poor mother, my poor mother...!"

But his companion, who was still drunk, and who intended to finish the evening in certain places
of bad repute that he frequented secretly, made him sit down on the grass by the riverside,
and left him almost immediately, under the pretext that he had to see a patient.

Caravan went on crying for a long time, and then, when he had got to the end of his tears,
when his grief had, so to say, run out of him, he again felt relief, repose, and sudden tranquillity.

The moon had risen, and bathed the horizon in its soft light.

The tall poplar trees had a silvery sheen on them, and the mist on the plain, looked like floating
snow; the river, in which the stars were reflected, and which looked as if it were covered
with mother-of-pearl, was rippled by the wind. The air was soft and sweet, and Caravan inhaled
it almost greedily, and thought that he could perceive a feeling of freshness, of calm and
of superhuman consolation pervading him.

He really tried to resist that feeling of comfort and relief, and kept on saying to himself:--"My
mother, my poor mother!" ... and tried to make himself cry, from a kind of a conscientious
feeling, but he could not succeed in doing so any longer and those sad thoughts, which had
made him sob so bitterly a short time before, had almost passed away. In a few moments, he
rose to go home, and returned slowly, under the influence of that serene night, and with a
heart soothed in spite of himself.

When he reached the bridge he saw that the last tramcar was ready to start, and the lights
through the windows of the Café du Globe, and he felt a longing to tell somebody of the catastrophe
that had happened, to excite pity, to make himself interesting. He put on a woeful face, pushed
open the door, and went up to the counter, where the landlord still was. He had counted on
creating an effect, and had hoped that everybody would get up and come to him with outstretched
hands, and say:--"Why, what is the matter with you?" But nobody noticed his disconsolate face,
so he rested his two elbows on the counter, and, burying his face in his hands, he murmured:
"Good heavens! Good heavens!"

The landlord looked at him and said: "Are you ill, Monsieur Caravan?"

"No, my friend," he replied, "but my mother has just died."

"Ah!" the other exclaimed, and as a customer at the other end of the establishment asked for
a glass of Bavarian beer, he went to attend to him, left Caravan almost stupefied at his want
of sympathy.

The three domino players were sitting at the same table which they had occupied before dinner,
totally absorbed in their game, and Caravan went up to them, in search of pity, but as none
of them appeared to notice him, he made up his mind to speak.

"A great misfortune has happened to me since I was here," he said.

All three slightly raised their heads at the same instant, but keeping their eyes fixed on
the pieces which they held in their hands.

"What do you say?"

"My mother has just died;" whereupon one of them said:

"Oh! the devil," with that false air of sorrow which indifferent people assume. Another, who
could not find anything to say, emitted a sort of sympathetic whistle, shaking his head at
the same time, and the third turned to the game again, as if he were saying to himself: "Is
that all!"

Caravan had expected some of those expressions that are said to "come from the heart," and
when he saw how his news was received, he left the table, indignant at their calmness before
their friend's sorrow, although at that moment he was so dazed with grief, that he hardly felt
it, and went home. When he got in, his wife was waiting for him in her nightgown, and sitting
in a low chair by the open window, still thinking of the inheritance.

"Undress yourself," she said; "we will talk when we are in bed."

He raised his head, and looking at the ceiling, he said:

"But ... there is nobody up there."

"I beg your pardon, Rosalie is with her, and you can go and take her place at three o'clock
in the morning, when you have had some sleep."

He only partially undressed, however, so as to be ready for anything that might happen, and
after tying a silk handkerchief round his head, he joined his wife, who had just got in between
the sheets, and for some time they remained side by side, and neither of them spoke. She was
thinking.

Even in bed, her night-cap was adorned with a red bow, and was pushed rather over one ear,
as was the way with all the caps that she wore, and, presently, she turned towards him and said:

"Do you know whether your mother made a will?"

He hesitated for a moment, and then replied:

"I ... I do not think so.... No, I am sure that she did not."

His wife looked at him, and she said, in a low, furious voice:

"I call that infamous; here we have been wearing ourselves out for ten years in looking after
her, and have boarded and lodged her! Your sister would not have done so much for her, nor
I either, if I had known how I was to be rewarded! Yes, it is a disgrace to her memory! I daresay
that you will tell me that she paid us, but one cannot pay one's children in ready money for
what they do; that obligation is recognized after death; at any rate, that is how honorable
people act. So I have had all my worry and trouble for nothing! Oh, that is nice! that is very
nice!"

Poor Caravan, who felt nearly distracted, kept on saying:

"My dear, my dear, please, please be quiet."

She grew calmer by degrees, and, resuming her usual voice and manner, she continued:

"We must let your sister know, to-morrow."

He started, and said:

"Of course, we must; I had forgotten all about it; I will send her a telegram the first thing
in the morning."

"No," she replied, like a woman who had foreseen everything; "no, do not send it before ten
or eleven o'clock, so that we may have time to turn round before she comes. It does not take
more than two hours to get here from Charenton, and we can say that you lost your head from
grief. If we let her know in the course of the day, that will be soon enough, and will give
us time to look round."

But Caravan put his hand to his forehead, and, in the same timid voice in which he always spoke
of his chief, the very thought of whom made him tremble, he said:

"I must let them know at the office."

"Why?" she replied. "On such occasions like this, it is always excusable to forget. Take my
advice, and don't let him know; your chief will not be able to say anything to you, and you
will put him in a nice fix."

"Oh! yes, that I shall, and he will be in a terrible rage, too, when he notices my absence.
Yes, you are right; it is a capital idea, and when I tell him that my mother is dead, he will
be obliged to hold his tongue."

And he rubbed his hands in delight at the joke, when he thought of his chief's face; while
the body of the dead old woman lay upstairs, and the servant was asleep close to it.

But Madame Caravan grew thoughtful, as if she were pre-occupied by something, which she did
not care to mention, but at last she said:

"Your mother had given you her clock, had she not; the girl playing at cup and ball?"

He thought for a moment, and then replied:

"Yes, yes; she said to me (but it was a long time ago, when she first came here): 'I shall
leave the clock to you, if you look after me well.'"

Madame Caravan was reassured, and regained her serenity, and said:

"Well, then, you must go and fetch it out of her room, for if we get your sister here, she
will prevent us from having it."

He hesitated.

"Do you think so?..."

That made her angry.

"I certainly think so; as soon as it is in our possession, she will know nothing at all about
where it came from; it belongs to us. It is just the same with the chest of drawers with the
marble top, that is in her room; she gave it me one day when she was in a good temper. We will
bring it down at the same time."

Caravan, however, seemed incredulous, and said:

"But, my dear, it is a great responsibility!"

She turned on him furiously.

"Oh! Indeed! Will you never alter? You would let your children die of hunger, rather than make
a move. Does not that chest of drawers belong to us, as she gave it to me? And if your sister
is not satisfied, let her tell me so, me! I don't care a straw for your sister. Come, get up,
and we will bring down what your mother gave us, immediately."

Trembling and vanquished, he got out of bed, and began to put on his trousers, but she stopped him:

"It is not worth while to dress yourself; your drawers are quite enough; I mean to go as I am."

They both left the room in their night clothes, went upstairs quite noiselessly, opened the
door and went into the room, where the four lighted tapers and the plate with the sprig of
box alone seemed to be watching the old woman in her rigid repose; for Rosalie, who was lying
back in the easy chair with her legs stretched out, her hands folded in her lap, and her head
on one side, was also quite motionless, and was snoring with her mouth wide open.

Caravan took the clock, which was one of those grotesque objects that were produced so plentifully
under the Empire. A girl in gilt bronze was holding a cup and ball, and the ball formed the
pendulum.

"Give that to me," his wife said, "and take the marble top off the chest of drawers."

He put the marble on his shoulder with a considerable effort, and they left the room. Caravan
had to stoop in the door-way, and trembled as he went downstairs, while his wife walked backwards,
so as to light him, and held the candlestick in one hand, while she had the clock under her
other arm.

When they were in their own room, she heaved a sigh.

"We have got over the worst part of the job," she said; "so now let us go and fetch the other
things."

But the drawers were full of the old woman's wearing apparel, which they must manage to hide
somewhere, and Madame Caravan soon thought of a plan.

"Go and get that wooden box in the passage; it is hardly worth anything, and we may just as
well put it here."

And when he had brought it upstairs, the change began. One by one, she took out all the collars,
cuffs, chemises, caps, all the well-worn things that had belonged to the poor woman lying there
behind them, and arranged them methodically in the wooden box, in such a manner as to deceive
Madame Braux, the deceased woman's other child, who would be coming the next day.

When they had finished, they first of all carried the drawers downstairs, and the remaining
portion afterwards, each of them holding an end, and it was some time before they could make
up their minds where it would stand best; but at last they settled upon their own room, opposite
the bed, between the two windows, and as soon as it was in its place, Madame Caravan filled
it with her own things. The clock was placed on the chimney-piece in the dining-room, and they
looked to see what the effect was, and they were both delighted with it, and agreed that nothing
could be better. Then they got into bed, she blew out the candle, and soon everybody in the
house was asleep.

It was broad daylight when Caravan opened his eyes again. His mind was rather confused when
he woke up, and he did not clearly remember what had happened, for a few minutes; when he did,
he felt it painfully, and jumped out of bed, almost ready to cry again.

He very soon went to the room overhead, where Rosalie was still sleeping in the same position
as the night before, for she did not wake up once during the whole time. He sent her to do
her work, put fresh tapers in the place of those that had burnt out, and then he looked at
his mother, revolving in his brain those apparently profound thoughts, those religious and
philosophical commonplaces, which trouble people of mediocre minds, in the face of death.

But he went down stairs as soon as his wife called him. She had written out a list of what
had to be done during the morning, which rather frightened him when he saw that he would have
to do all this:

  1. Give information of the death to the Mayor's officer.
  2. See the doctor who had attended her.
  3. Order the coffin.
  4. Give notice at the church.
  5. Go to the undertaker.
  6. Order the notices of her death at the printer's.
  7. Go to the lawyer.
  8. Telegraph the news to all the family.

Besides all this there were a number of small commissions; so he took his hat and went out,
and as the news had got abroad, Madame Caravan's female friends and neighbors soon began to
come in, and begged to be allowed to see the body. There had been a scene at the hairdresser's,
on the ground floor, about the matter, between husband and wife, while he was shaving a customer;
for while she was knitting the woman had said: "Well, there is one less, and as great a miser
as one ever meets with. I certainly was not very fond of her; but, nevertheless, I must go
and have a look at her."

The husband, while lathering his patient's chin, said: "That is another queer fancy! Nobody
but a woman would think of such a thing. It is not enough for them to worry you during life,
but they cannot even leave you at peace when you are dead." But his wife, without disconcerting
herself the least, replied: "The feeling is stronger than I, and I must go. It has been on
me since the morning. If I was not to see her, I should think about it all my life, but when
I have had a good look at her, I shall be satisfied."

The knight of the razor shrugged his shoulders, and remarked in a low voice to the gentleman
whose cheek he was scraping: "I just ask you, what sort of ideas do you think these confounded
females have? I should not amuse myself by going to see a corpse!" But his wife had heard him,
and replied very quietly: "But it is so, it is so." And then, putting her knitting on the counter,
she went upstairs, to the first floor, where she met two other neighbors, who had just come,
and who were discussing the event with Madame Caravan, who was giving them the details, and
they all went together to the mortuary chamber. The four women went in softly, and, one after
the other, sprinkled the bed clothes with the holy water, knelt down, made the sign of the
cross while they mumbled a prayer, then they got up, and open-mouthed, regarded the corpse
for a long time, while the daughter-in-law of the dead woman, with her handkerchief to her
face, pretended to be sobbing piteously.

When she turned about to walk away, whom should she perceive standing close to the door but
Marie-Louise and Philippe-Auguste, who were curiously taking stock of things. Then, forgetting
to control her chagrin, she threw herself upon them with uplifted hands, crying out in a furious
voice, "Will you get out of this, you filthy brats."

Ten minutes later, in going upstairs again with another contingent of neighbors, she prayed,
wept profusely, performed all her duties, and found once more her two children, who had followed
her up stairs. She again boxed their ears soundly, but the next time she paid no heed to them,
and at each fresh arrival of visitors the two urchins always followed in the wake, crowded
themselves up in a corner, and imitating slavishly everything they saw their mother do.

When the afternoon came round the crowds of curious people began to diminish, and soon there
were no more visitors. Madame Caravan, returning to her own apartments, began to make the necessary
preparations for the funeral ceremony, and the defunct was hence left by herself.

The window of the room was open. A torrid heat entered along with the clouds of dust; the flames
of the four candles were flickering in the direction of the immobile corpse, and upon the cloth
which covered the face, the closed eyes, the two hands stretched out, small flies alighted,
came, went, and careered up and down incessantly, being the only companions of the old woman
during the next hour.

Marie-Louise and Philippe-Auguste, however, had now left the house, and were running up and
down the street. They were soon surrounded by their playmates, by little girls, especially,
who were older, and who were much more interested to inquire into all the mysteries of life,
asking questions after the manner of persons of great importance.

"Then your grandmother is dead?" "Yes, she died yesterday evening." "How, in what way did she
meet her death?"

Then Marie began to explain, telling all about the candles and the cadaverous face. It was
not long before great curiosity was aroused in the breasts of all the children, and they asked
to be allowed to go upstairs to look at the departed.

It was not long before Marie-Louise had arranged a group for a first visit, consisting of five
girls and two boys--the biggest and the most courageous. She made them take off their shoes
so that they might not be discovered. The troupe filed into the house and mounted the stairs
as stealthily as an army of mice.

Once in the chamber, the little girl, imitating her mother, regulated the ceremony. She solemnly
walked in advance of her comrades, went down on her knees, made the sign of the cross, moistened
her lips with the holy water, stood up again, sprinkled the bed, and while the children, all
crowded together, were approaching--frightened and curious, and eager to look at the face and
hands of the deceased--she began suddenly to simulate sobbing, and to bury her eyes in her
little handkerchief. Then, becoming instantly consoled, on thinking of the other children who
were downstairs waiting at the door, she withdrew in haste, returning in a minute with another
group, then a third, for all the little ruffians of the country-side, even to the little beggars
in rags, had congregated in order to participate in this new pleasure; and each time she repeated
her mother's grimaces with absolute perfection.

At length, however, she became tired. Some game or other attracted the children away from the
house, and the old grandmother was left alone, forgotten suddenly by everybody.

A dismal gloom pervaded the chamber, and upon the dry and rigid features of the corpse, the
dying flames of the candles cast occasional gleams of light.

Towards 8 o'clock, Caravan ascended to the chamber of death, closed the windows, and renewed
the candles. On entering now he was quite composed, evidently accustomed already to regard
the corpse as though it had been there for a month. He even went the length of declaring that,
as yet, there was not any signs of decomposition, making this remark just at the moment when
he and his wife were about to sit down at table. "Pshaw!" she responded, "she is now in wood;
she will keep there for a year."

The soup was eaten without a word being uttered by anyone. The children, who had been free
all day, now worn out by fatigue, were sleeping soundly on their chairs, and nobody ventured
on breaking the silence.

Suddenly the flame of the lamp went down. Mdme. Caravan immediately turned up the wick, a prolonged
gurgling noise ensued, and the light went out. It had been forgotten during the day to buy
oil. To send for it now to the grocers' would keep back the dinner, and everybody began to
look for candles, but none were to be found except the night lights which had been placed upon
the tables upstairs, in the death chamber.

Mdme. Caravan, always prompt in her decisions, quickly dispatched Marie-Louise to fetch two,
and her return was awaited in total darkness.

The footsteps of the girl who had ascended the stairs were distinctly heard. There followed
now a silence for a few seconds, then the child descended precipitately. She threw open the
door affrighted, and in a choked voice murmured: "Oh! papa, grandmamma is dressing herself!"

Caravan bounded to his feet with such precipitance that his chair rolled over against the chair.
He stammered out: "You say?... What is that you say?"

But Marie-Louise, gasping with emotion, repeated: "Grand ... grand ... grandmamma is putting
on her clothes, she is coming down stairs."

Caravan rushed boldly up the staircase, followed by his wife, dumbfounded; but he came to a
standstill before the door of the second floor, overcome with terror, not daring to enter.
What was he going to see? Mdme. Caravan, more courageous, turned the handle of the door and
stepped forward into the room.

The room seemed to become darker, and in the middle of it, a tall emaciated figure moved about.
The old woman stood upright, and in awakening from her lethargic sleep, before even full consciousness
had returned to her, in turning upon her side, and raising herself on her elbow, she had extinguished
three of the candles which burned near the mortuary bed. Then, recovering her strength, she
got out of bed and began to seek for her things. The absence of her chest of drawers had at
first given her some trouble, but, after a little, she had succeeded in finding her things
at the bottom of the wooden trunk, and was now quietly dressing. She emptied the plateful of
holy water, replaced the box which contained the latter behind the looking-glass and arranged
the chairs in their places, and was ready to go downstairs when there appeared before her her
son and daughter-in-law.

Caravan rushed forward, seized her by the hands, embraced her with tears in his eyes, while
his wife, who was behind him, repeated in a hypocritical tone of voice: "Oh, what a blessing!
Oh, what a blessing!"

But the old woman, without being at all moved, without even appearing to understand, as rigid
as a statue, and with glazed eyes, simply asked: "Will the dinner soon be ready?"

He stammered out, not knowing what he said: "O, yes, mother, we have been waiting for you."

And with an alacrity, unusual in him, he took her arm, while Mdme. Caravan, the younger, seized
the candle and lighted them downstairs, walking backwards in front of them, step by step, just
as she had done the previous night, in front of her husband, who was carrying the marble.

On reaching the first floor, she ran up against people who were ascending. It was the Charenton
family, Mdme. Braux, followed by her husband.

The wife, tall, fleshy, with a dropsical stomach which threw her trunk far out behind her,
opened wide her astonished eyes, ready to take flight. The husband, a shoemaker socialist,
a little hairy man, the perfect image of a monkey, murmured, quite unconcerned: "Well, what
next? Is she resurrected?"

As soon as Mdme. Caravan recognized them, she made despairing signs to them, then, speaking
aloud, she said: "Mercy! How do you mean!... Look there! What a happy surprise!"

But Mdme. Braux, dumbfounded, understood nothing; she responded in a low voice: "It was your
dispatch which made us come; we believed it was all over."

Her husband, who was behind her, pinched her to make her keep silent. He added with a malignant
laugh, which his thick beard concealed: "It was very kind of you to invite us here. We set
out in post haste."--which remark showed clearly the hostility which had for a long time reigned
between the households. Then, just as the old woman had arrived at the last steps, he pushed
forward quickly and rubbed against her cheeks the hair which covered his face, bawling out
in her ear, on account of her deafness: "How well you look, mother; sturdy as usual, hey!"

Mdme. Braux, in her stupor at seeing the old woman whom they all believed to be dead, dared
not even embrace her; and her enormous belly blocked up the passage and hindered the others
from advancing. The old woman, uneasy and suspicious, but without speaking, looked at everyone
around her; and her little gray eyes, piercing and hard, fixed themselves now on the one and
now on the other, and they were so terrible in their expression that the children became frightened.

Caravan, to explain matters, said: "She has been somewhat ill, but she is better now; quite
well, indeed, are you not, mother?"

Then the good woman, stopping in her walk, responded in a husky voice, as though it came from
a distance: "It was syncope. I heard you all the while."

An embarrassing silence followed. They entered the dining-room, and in a few minutes they all
sat down to an improvised dinner.

Only M. Braux had retained his self-possession; his gorilla features grinned wickedly, while
he let fall some words of double meaning which painfully disconcerted everyone.

But the clock in the hall kept on ticking every second; and Rosalie, lost in astonishment,
came to seek out Caravan, who darted a fierce glance at her, as she threw down his serviette.
His brother-in-law even asked him whether it was not one of his days to hold a reception, to
which he stammered out, in answer: "No, I have only been executing a few commissions; nothing
more."

Next, a packet was brought in, which he began to open sadly, and from which dropped out unexpectedly
a letter with black borders. Then, reddening up to the very eyes, he picked up the letter hurriedly,
and pushed it into his waistcoat pocket.

His mother had not seen it! She was looking intently at her clock, which stood on the mantelpiece,
and the embarrassment increased in midst of a glacial silence. Turning her face towards her
daughter, the old woman, from whose eyes flashed fierce malice, said: "On Monday, you must
take me away from here, so that I can see your little girl. I want so much to see her." Madame
Braux, her features illuminated, exclaimed: "Yes, mother, that I will," while Mdme. Caravan,
the younger, became pale, and seemed to be enduring the most excruciating agony. The two men,
however, gradually drifted into conversation, and soon became embroiled in a political discussion.
Braux maintained the most revolutionary and communistic doctrines, gesticulating and throwing
about his arms, his eyes darting like a blood-hound's. "Property, sir," he said, "is robbery
perpetrated on the working classes; the land is the common property of every man; hereditary
rights are an infamy and a disgrace." But, hereupon, he suddenly stopped, having all the appearance
of a man who has just said something foolish; then, resuming, after a pause, he said, in softer
tones: "But I can see quite well that this is not the proper moment to discuss such things."

The door was opened, and Doctor Chenet appeared. For a moment he seemed bewildered, but regaining
his usual smirking expression of countenance, he jauntily approached the old woman, and said:
"Ah, hah! mamma, you are better to-day. Oh! I never had any doubt but you would come round
again; in fact, I said to myself as I was mounting the staircase, 'I have an idea that I shall
find the old one on her feet once more;'" and he tapped her gently on the back: "Ah! she is
as solid as the Pont-Neuf, she will see us all out; you shall see if she does not."

He sat down, accepted the coffee that was offered him, and soon began to join in the conversation
of the two men, backing up Braux, for he himself had been mixed up in the Commune.

Now, the old woman, feeling herself fatigued, wished to leave the room, at which Caravan rushed
forward. She thereupon fixed him in the eyes and said to him: "You, you, must carry my clock
and chest of drawers up stairs again without a moment's delay." "Yes, mamma," he replied, yawning;
"yes, I will do so." The old woman then took the arm of her daughter and withdrew from the
room. The two Caravans remained rooted to the floor, silent, plunged in the deepest despair,
while Braux rubbed his hands and sipped his coffee, gleefully.

Suddenly Mdme. Caravan, consumed with rage, rushed at him, exclaiming: "You are a thief, a
footpad, a cur. I would spit in your face, if ... I would ... I ... would...." She could find
nothing further to say, suffocating as she was, with rage, while he still sipped his coffee,
with a smile.

His wife returning just then, looked menacingly at her sister-in-law, and both--the one with
her enormous fat stomach, the other, epileptic and spare, voice changed, hands trembling--flew
at one another and seized each other by the throat.

Chenet and Braux now interposed, and the latter taking his better half by the shoulders pushed
her out of the door in front of him, shouting to his sister-in-law: "Go away, you slut: you
are a disgrace to your relations;" and the two were heard in the street bellowing and shouting
at the Caravans, until after they had disappeared from sight.

M. Chenet also took his departure, leaving the Caravans alone, face to face. The husband soon
fell back on his chair, and with the cold sweat standing out in beads on his temples, murmured:
"What shall I say to my chief to-morrow?"

THE ODALISQUE OF SENICHOU

In Senichou, which is a suburb of Prague, there lived about twenty years ago, two poor but
honest people, who earned their bread by the sweat of their brow; he worked in a large printing
establishment, and his wife employed her spare time as a laundress. Their pride, and their
only pleasure, was their daughter Viteska, who was a vigorous, voluptuous-looking, handsome
girl of eighteen, whom they brought up very well and carefully. She worked for a dress-maker,
and was thus able to help her parents a little, and she made use of her leisure moments to
improve her education, and especially her music. She was a general favorite in the neighborhood
on account of her quiet modest demeanor, and she was looked upon as a model by the whole suburb.

When she went to work in the town, the tall girl with her magnificent head, which resembled
that of an ancient, Bohemian Amazon, with its wealth of black hair, and her dark, sparkling
yet soft eyes, attracted the looks of passers-by, in spite of her shabby dress, much more than
the graceful, well-dressed ladies of the aristocracy. Frequently some young, wealthy lounger
would follow her home; and even try to get into conversation with her, but she always managed
to get rid of them and their importunities, and she did not require any protector, for she
was quite capable of protecting herself from any insults.

One evening, however, she met a man on the suspension bridge, whose strange appearance made
her give him a look which evinced some interest, but perhaps even more surprise. He was a tall,
handsome man with bright eyes and a black beard; he was very sunburnt, and in his long coat,
which was like a caftan, with a red fez on his head, he gave those who saw him the impression
of an Oriental; he had noticed her look all the more as he himself had been so struck by her
poor, and at the same time regal, appearance, that he remained standing and looking at her
in such a way, that he seemed to be devouring her with his eyes, so that Viteska, who was usually
so fearless, looked down. She hurried on and he followed her, and the quicker she walked, the
more rapidly he followed her, and, at last, when they were in a narrow, dark street in the
suburb, he suddenly said in an insinuating voice: "May I offer you my arm, my pretty girl?"
"You can see that I am old enough to look after myself," Viteska replied hastily; "I am much
obliged to you, and must beg you not to follow me any more; I am known in this neighborhood,
and it might damage my reputation." "Oh! You are very much mistaken if you think you will get
rid of me so easily," he replied. "I have just come from the East and am returning there soon,
come with me, and as I fancy that you are as sensible as you are beautiful, you will certainly
make your fortune there, and I will bet that before the end of a year, you will be covered
with diamonds, and be waited on by eunuchs and female slaves."

"I am a respectable girl, sir," she replied proudly, and tried to go on in front, but the stranger
was immediately at her side again. "You were born to rule," he whispered to her. "Believe me,
and I understand the matter, that you will live to be a Sultaness, if you have any luck." The
girl did not give him any answer, but walked on. "But, at any rate, listen to me," the tempter
continued. "I will not listen to anything; because I am poor, you think it will be easy for
you to seduce me," Viteska exclaimed: "but I am as virtuous as I am poor, and I should despise
any position which I had to buy with shame." They had reached the little house where her parents
lived, and she ran in quickly, and slammed the door behind her.

When she went into the town the next morning, the stranger was waiting at the corner of the
street where she lived, and bowed to her very respectfully. "Allow me to speak a few words
with you," he began. "I feel that I ought to beg your pardon for my behavior yesterday." "Please
let me go on my way quietly," the girl replied. "What will the neighbors think of me?" "I did
not know you," he went on, without paying any attention to her angry looks, "but your extraordinary
beauty attracted me. Now that I know that you are as virtuous as you are charming, I wish very
much to become better acquainted with you. Believe me, I have the most honorable intentions."

Unfortunately, the bold stranger had taken the girl's fancy, and she could not find it in her
heart to refuse him. "If you are really in earnest," she stammered in charming confusion, "do
not follow me about in the public streets, but come to my parents' house like a man of honor,
and state your intentions there." "I will certainly do so, and immediately, if you like," the
stranger replied, eagerly. "No, no," Viteska said; "but come this evening if you like."

The stranger bowed and left her, and really called on her parents in the evening. He introduced
himself as Ireneus Krisapolis, a merchant from Smyrna, spoke of his brilliant circumstances,
and finally declared that he loved Viteska passionately. "That is all very nice and right,"
the cautious father replied, "but what will it all lead to? Under no circumstances can I allow
you to visit my daughter. Such a passion as yours often dies out as quickly as it arises, and
a respectable girl is easily robbed of her virtue." "And suppose I make up my mind to marry
your daughter?" the stranger asked, after a moment's hesitation. "Then I shall refer you to
my child, for I shall never force Viteska to marry against her will," her father said.

The stranger seized the pretty girl's hand, and spoke in glowing terms of his love for her,
of the luxury with which she would be surrounded in his house, of the wonders of the East,
to which he hoped to take her, and at last Viteska consented to become his wife. Thereupon
the stranger hurried on the arrangements for the wedding, in a manner that made the most favorable
impression on them all, and during the time before their marriage he lay at her feet like her
humble slave.

As soon as they were married, the newly-married couple set off on their journey to Smyrna and
promised to write as soon as they got there, but a month, then two and three, passed without
the parents, whose anxiety increased every day, receiving a line from them, until at last the
father in terror applied to the police.

The first thing was to write to the Consul at Smyrna for information: his reply was to the
effect that no merchant of the name of Ireneus Krisapolis was known in Smyrna, and that he
had never been there. The police, at the entreaties of the frantic parents, continued their
investigations, but for a long time without any result. At last, however, they obtained a little
light on the subject, but it was not at all satisfactory. The police at Pestle said that a
man, whose personal appearance exactly agreed with the description of Viteska's husband, had
a short time before carried off two girls from the Hungarian capital, to Turkey, evidently
intending to trade in that coveted, valuable commodity there, but that when he found that the
authorities were on his track he had escaped from justice by a sudden flight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Four years after Viteska's mysterious disappearance, two persons, a man and a woman, met in
a narrow street in Damascus, in a scarcely less strange manner, than when the Greek merchant
met Viteska on the suspension bridge at Prague. The man with the black beard, the red fez,
and the long, green caftan, was no one else than Ireneus Krisapolis; matters appeared to be
going well with him; he had his hands comfortably thrust into the red shawl which he had round
his waist, and a negro was walking behind him with a large parasol, while another carried his
Chiloque after him. A noble Turkish lady met him in a litter borne by four slaves; she was
wrapped like a ghost in a white veil, only that a pair of large, dark, threatening eyes flashed
at the merchant.

He smiled, for he thought that he had found favor in the eyes of an Eastern houri, and that
flattered him; but he soon lost sight of her in the crowd, and forgot her almost immediately.
The next morning however, a eunuch of the pasha's came to him, to his no small astonishment,
and told him to come with him. He took him to the Sultan's most powerful deputy, who ruled
as an absolute despot in Damascus. They went through dark, narrow passages, and curtains were
pushed aside, which rustled behind them again. At last they reached a large rotunda, the center
of which was occupied by a beautiful fountain, while scarlet divans ran all around it. Here
the eunuch told the merchant to wait, and left him. He was puzzling his brains what the meaning
of it all could be, when suddenly a tall, commanding woman came into the apartment. Again a
pair of large, threatening eyes looked at him through the veil, while he knew from her green,
gold-embroidered caftan, that if it was not the pasha's wife, it was at least one of his favorites,
who was before him, and so he hurriedly knelt down, and crossing his hands on his breast, he
put his head on to the ground before her. But a clear, diabolical laugh made him look up, and
when the beautiful Odalisque threw back her veil, he uttered a cry of terror, for his wife,
his deceived wife, whom he had sold, was standing before him.

"Do you know me?" she asked with quiet dignity. "Viteska!" "Yes, that was my name when I was
your wife," she replied quickly, in a contemptuous voice; "but now that I am the pasha's wife,
my name is Sarema. I do not suppose you ever expected to find me again, you wretch, when you
sold me in Varna to an old Jewish profligate, who was only half alive. You see I have got into
better hands, and I have made my fortune, as you said I should do. Well? What do you expect
of me; what thanks, what reward?"

The wretched man was lying overwhelmed, at the feet of the woman whom he had so shamefully
deceived, and could not find a word to say; he had felt that he was lost, and had not even
got the courage to beg for mercy. "You deserve death, you miscreant," Sarema continued. "You
are in my hands, and I can do whatever I please with you, for the pasha has left your punishment
to me alone. I ought to have you impaled, and to feast my eyes on your death agonies. That
would be the smallest compensation for all the years of degradation that I have been through,
and which I owe to you." "Mercy, Viteska! Mercy!" the wretched man cried, trembling all over,
and raising his hands to her in supplication.

The Odalisque's only reply was a laugh, in which rang all the cruelty of an insulted woman's
deceived heart. It seemed to give her pleasure to see the man whom she had loved, and who had
so shamefully trafficked in her beauty, in his mortal agony, as he cringed before her, whining
for his life, as he clung to her knees, but at last she seemed to relent somewhat.

"I will give your life, you miserable wretch," she said, "but you shall not go unpunished."
So saying, she clapped her hands, and four black eunuchs came in, and seized the favorite's
unfortunate husband and in a moment bound his hands and feet.

"I have altered my mind, and he shall not be put to death," Sarema said, with a smile that
made the traitor's blood run cold in his veins; "but give him a hundred blows with the bastinade,
and I will stand by and count them." "For God's sake," the merchant screamed, "I can never
endure it." "We will see about that," the favorite said, coldly, "and if you die under it,
it was allotted you by fate; I am not going to retract my orders."

She threw herself down on the cushions, and began to smoke a long pipe, which a female slave
handed to her on her knees. At a sign from her the eunuchs tied the wretched man's feet to
the pole, by which the soles of the culprit were raised, and began the terrible punishment.
Already at the tenth blow the merchant began to roar like a wild animal, but his wife whom
he had betrayed, remained unmoved, carelessly blowing the blue wreaths of smoke into the air,
and resting on her lovely arm, she watched his features, which were distorted by pain, with
merciless enjoyment.

During the last blows he only groaned gently, and then he fainted.

       *       *       *       *       *

A year later the dealer was caught with his female merchandise by the police in an Austrian
town, and handed over to justice, when he made a full confession, and by that means the parents
of the Odalisque of Senichou heard of their daughter's position. As they knew that she was
happy and surrounded by luxury, they made no attempt to get her out of the Pasha's hands, who,
like a thorough Mussulman, had become the slave of his slave.

The unfortunate husband was sent over to the frontier when he was released from prison. His
shameful traffic, however, flourishes still, in spite of all the precautions of the police
and of the consuls, and every year he provides the harems of the East with those voluptuous
Boxclanas, especially from Bohemia and Hungary, who, in the eyes of a Mussulman, vie for the
prize of beauty, with the slender Circassian women.

A GOOD MATCH

Strauss' band was playing in the saloons of the Horticultural Society, which was so full that
the young cadet Hussar-sergeant Max B., who had nothing better to do on an afternoon when he
was off duty than to drink a glass of good beer and to listen to a new waltz tune, had already
been looking about for a seat for some time, when the head waiter, who knew him, quickly took
him to an unoccupied place, and without waiting for his orders, brought him a glass of beer.
A very gentlemanly-looking man, and three elegantly dressed ladies were sitting at the table.

The cadet saluted them with military politeness, and sat down, but almost before he could put
the glass to his lips, he noticed that the two elder ladies, who appeared to be married, turned
up their noses very much at his taking a seat at their table, and even said a few words which
he could not catch, but which no doubt referred unpleasantly to him. "I am afraid I am in the
way here," the cadet said; and he got up to leave, when he felt a pull at his sabre-tasch beneath
the table, and at the same time the gentleman felt bound to say with some embarrassment: "Oh!
not at all; on the contrary, we are very pleased that you have chosen this table."

Thereupon the cadet resumed his seat, not so much because he took the gentleman's invitation
as sincere, but because the silent request to remain, which he had received under the table,
and which was much more sincerely meant, had raised in him one of those charming illusions,
which are so frequent in our youth, and which promised so much happiness, with electrical rapidity.
He could not doubt for a moment, that the daring invitation came from the third, the youngest
and prettiest of the ladies, into whose company a fortunate accident had thrown him.

From the moment that he had sat down by her, however, she did not deign to bestow even another
look on him, much less a word, and to the young hussar, who was still rather inexperienced
in such matters, this seemed rather strange; but he possessed enough natural tact not to expose
himself to a rebuff by any hasty advances, but quietly to wait further developments of the
adventure on the part of the heroine of it. This gave him the opportunity of looking at her
more closely, and for this he employed the moments when their attention was diverted from him,
and was taken up by conversation among themselves.

The girl, whom the others called Angelica, was a thorough Viennese beauty, not exactly regularly
beautiful, for her features were not Roman or Greek, and not even strictly German, and yet
they possessed every female charm, and were seductive, in the fullest sense of the word. Her
strikingly small nose, which in a lady's-maid might have been called impudent, and her little
mouth with its voluptuously full lips, which would have been called lustful in a street-walker,
imparted an indescribable piquant charm to her small head, which was surmounted by an imposing
tower of that soft brown hair which is so characteristic of Viennese women. Her bright eyes
were full of good sense, and a merry smile lurked continually in the most charming little dimples
near her mouth and on her chin.

In less than a quarter of an hour, our cadet was fettered, with no more will of his own than
a slave has, to the triumphal chariot of this delightful little creature, and as he hoped and
believed--for ever. And he was a man worth capturing. He was tall and slim, but muscular, and
looked like an athlete, and at the time he had one of those handsome, open faces which women
like so much. His honest, dark eyes showed strength of will, courage and strong passions, and
that, women also like.

During an interval in the music, an elderly gentleman, with the ribbon of an order in his button-hole,
came up to the table, and from the manner in which he greeted them, it was evident that he
was an old friend. From their conversation, which was carried on in a very loud tone of voice,
and with much animation, in the bad, Viennese fashion, the cadet gathered that the gentleman
who was with the ladies, was a Councilor of Legation, and that the eldest lady was his wife,
while the second lady was his married, and the youngest his unmarried, sister-in-law. When
they at last rose to go, the pretty girl, evidently intentionally, put her velvet jacket, trimmed
with valuable sable, very loosely over her shoulders; then she remained standing at the exit,
and slowly put it on, so that the cadet had an opportunity to get close to her. "Follow us,"
she whispered to him, and then ran after the others.

The cadet was only too glad to obey her directions, and followed them at a distance, without
being observed, to the house where they lived. A week passed without his seeing the pretty
Angelica again, or without her giving him any sign of life. The waiter in the Horticultural
Society's grounds, whom he asked about them, could tell him nothing more than that they were
people of position, and a few days later the cadet saw them all again at a concert, but he
was satisfied with looking at his ideal from a distance. She, however, when she could do so
without danger, gave him one of those coquettish looks which inexperienced young men imagine
express the innermost feelings of a pure, virgin heart. On that occasion she left the grounds
with her sisters, much earlier, and as she passed the handsome cadet, she let a small piece
of rolled-up paper fall, which only contained the words: "Come at ten o'clock to-night, and
ring the bell."

He was outside the house at the stroke of ten and rang, but his astonishment knew no bounds
when, instead of Angelica or her confidential maid, the housekeeper opened the door. She saw
his confusion, and quickly put an end to it by taking his hand, and pulling him into the house.
"Come with me," she whispered; "I know all about it. The young lady will be here directly,
so come along." Then she lead him through the kitchen into a room which was shut off from the
rest of the house, and which she had apparently furnished for similar meetings, on her own
account, and left him there by himself, and the cadet was rather surprised to see the elegant
furniture, a wide, soft couch, and some rather obscene pictures in broad, gilt frames. In a
few minutes, the beautiful girl came, in, and without any further ceremony, threw her arms
round the young soldier's neck. In her negligée, she appeared to him much more beautiful than
in her elegant outdoor dress, but the virginal fragrance which then pervaded her, had given
way to that voluptuous atmosphere which surrounds a young newly-married woman.

Angelica, whose little feet were encased in blue velvet slippers lined with ermine, and who
was wrapped in a richly embroidered, white dressing-gown, that was trimmed with lace, drew
the handsome cadet down on to the couch with graceful energy, and almost before he exactly
knew what he had come for, she was his, and the young soldier, who was half dazed at his unexpected
victory and good fortune, did not leave her until after twelve o'clock. He returned every night
at ten, rang the bell, and was admitted by the girl's slyly-smiling confidante, and a few moments
later was clasping his little goddess, who used to wrap her delicate, white limbs sometimes
in dark sable, and at others in princely ermine, in his arms. Every time they partook of a
delicious supper, laughed and joked and loved each other like only young, good-looking people
do love, and frequently they entertained one another until morning.

Once the cadet attempted diffidently to pay the housekeeper for her services, and also for
the supper, but she refused his money with a laugh, and said that everything was already settled;
and the young soldier had reveled in this manner in boundless bliss for four months, when,
by an unfortunate accident, he met his mistress in the street one day. She was alone, but in
spite of this she contracted her delicate, finely-arched eyebrows angrily, when he was about
to speak to her, and turned her head away. This hurt the honest young fellow's feelings, and
when that evening she drew him to her bosom, that was rising and falling tempestuously under
the black velvet that covered it, he remonstrated with her quietly, but emphatically.--She
made a little grimace, and looking at him coldly and angrily, she at last said, shortly: "I
forbid you to take any notice of me out of doors. I do not choose to recognize you; do you
understand?"

The cadet was surprised and did not reply, but the harmony of his pleasures was destroyed by
a harsh discord. For some time he bore his misery in silence and with resignation, but at last
the situation became unendurable; his mistress's fiery kisses seemed to mock him, and the pleasure
which she gave him to degrade him, so at last he summoned up courage, and in his open way,
he came straight to the point.

"What do you think of our future, Angelica?" She wrinkled her brows a little. "Do not let us
talk about it; at any rate not to-day." "Why not? We must talk about it sooner or later," he
replied, "and I think it is high time for me to explain my intentions to you, if I do not wish
to appear as a dishonorable scoundrel in your eyes." She looked at him in surprise. "I look
upon you as one of the best and most honorable of men, Max," she said, soothingly, after a
pause. "And do you trust me also?" "Of course I do." "Are you convinced that I love you honestly?"
"Quite." "Then do not hesitate any longer to bestow your hand upon me," her lover said, in
conclusion. "What are you thinking about?" she cried, quickly, in a tone of refusal. "What
is to be the end of our connection? What is at any rate not permissible with a woman, is wrong
and dishonorable with a girl. You yourself must feel lowered if you do not become my wife as
soon as possible." "What a narrow-minded view," Angelica replied, angrily, "but as you wish
it, I will give you my opinion on the subject, but ... by letter." "No, no; now, directly."

The pretty girl did not speak for some time, and looked down, but suddenly she looked at her
lover, and a malicious, mocking smile lurked in the corners of her mouth. "Well, I love you,
Max, I love you really and ardently," she said, carelessly; "but I can never be your wife.
If you were an officer I might perhaps marry you; yes, I certainly would, but as it is, it
is impossible." "Is that your last word?" the cadet said, in great excitement. She only nodded,
and then put her full, white arms round his neck, with all the security of a mistress who is
granting some favor to her slave; but on that occasion she was mistaken. He sprang up, seized
his sword and hurried out of the room, and she let him go, for she felt certain that he would
come back again, but he did not do so, and when she wrote to him, he did not answer her letters,
and still did not come; so at last she gave him up.

It was a bad, a very bad, experience for the honorable young fellow; the highborn, frivolous
girl had trampled on all the ideals and illusions of his life with her small feet, for he then
saw only too clearly, that she had not loved him, but that he had only served her pleasures
and her lusts, while he, he had loved her so truly!

About a year after the catastrophe with charming Angelica, the handsome cadet happened to be
in his captain's quarters, and accidentally saw a large photograph of a lady on his writing
table, and on going up and looking at it, he recognized--Angelica.

"What a beautiful girl," he said, wishing to find out how the land lay. "That is the lady I
am going to marry," the captain, whose vanity was flattered, said, "and she is as pure and
as good as an angel, just as she is as beautiful as one, and into the bargain she comes of
a very good and very rich family; in short, in the fullest sense of the word, she is 'a good
match.'"

A FASHIONABLE WOMAN

It can easily be proved that Austria is far richer in talented men in every domain, than North
Germany, but while men are systematically drilled there for the vocation which they choose,
like the Prussian soldiers are, with us they lack the necessary training, especially technical
training, and consequently very few of them get beyond mere diletantism. Leo Wolfram was one
of those intellectual diletantes, and the more pleasure one took in his materials and characters,
which were usually boldly taken from real life, and in a certain political, and what is still
more, in a plastic plot, the more he was obliged to regret that he had never learnt to compose
or to mold his characters, or to write; in one word, that he had never become a literary artist,
but how greatly he had in himself the materials for a master of narration, his "Dissolving
Views," and still more his Goldkind,[4] prove.

[Footnote 4: Golden Child.]

This Goldkind is a striking type of our modern society, and the novel of that name contains
all the elements of a classic novel, although of course in a crude, unfinished state. What
an exact reflection of our social circumstances Leo Wolfram gave in that story our present
reminiscences will show, in which a lady of that race plays the principal part.

It may be ten years ago, that every day four very stylishly dressed persons went to dine in
a corner of the small dining-room of one of the best hotels in Vienna, who, both there and
elsewhere, gave occasion for a great amount of talk. They were an Austrian landowner, his charming
wife, and two young diplomatists, one of whom came from the North, while the other was a pure
son of the South. There was no doubt that the lady came in for the greatest share of the general
interest in every respect.

The practiced observer and discerner of human nature easily recognized in her one of those
characters which Goethe has so aptly named "problematical," for she was one of those individuals
who are always dissatisfied and at variance with themselves and with the world, who are a riddle
to themselves, and who can never be relied on, and with the interesting and captivating, though
unfortunate contradictions in her nature, she made a strong impression on everybody, even by
her mere outward appearance. She was one of those women who are called beautiful, without their
being really so. Her face, as well as her figure, was wanting in æsthetic lines, but there
was no doubt that, in spite of that, or perhaps on that very account, she was the most dangerous,
infatuating woman that one could imagine.

She was tall and thin, and there was a certain hardness about her figure, which became a charm
through the vivacity and grace of her movements; her features harmonized with her figure, for
she had a high, clever, cold forehead, a strong mouth with sensual lips, and an angular, sharp
chin, the effect of which was, however, diminished by her slightly turned-up, small nose, her
beautifully arched eyebrows, and her large, animated, swimming blue eyes.

In her face, which was almost too full of expression for a woman, there was as much feeling,
kindness and candor as there was calculation, coolness and deceit, and when she was angry and
drew her upper lip up, so as to show her dazzlingly white teeth, it had even a devilish look
of wickedness and cruelty, and at that time, when women still wore their own hair, the beauty
of her long, chestnut plaits, which she fastened on the top of her head like a crown, was very
striking. Besides this, she was remarkable for her elegant, tasteful dresses, and a bearing
which united to the dignity of a lady of rank that undefinable something which makes actresses
and women who belong to the higher classes of the demi-monde so interesting to us.

In Paris she would have been taken for a kept woman, but in Vienna the best drawing-rooms were
open to her, and she was not looked upon as more respectable or as less respectable than any
other aristocratic beauties.

Her husband decidedly belonged to that class of men whom that witty writer, Balzac, so delightfully
calls les hommes prédestinés in his Physiologie du Mariage. Without doubt, he was a very good-looking
man, but he bore that stamp of insignificance which so often conceals coarseness and vulgarity,
and was one of those men who, in the long run, become unendurable to a woman of refined tastes.
He had a good private income, but his wife understood the art of enjoying life, and so a deficit
in the yearly accounts of the young couple became the rule, without causing the lively lady
to check her noble passion in the least on that account; she kept horses and carriages, rode
with the greatest boldness, had her box at the opera, and gave beautiful little suppers, which
at that time was the highest aim of a Viennese woman of her class.

One of the two young diplomats who accompanied her, a young Count, belonging to a well-known
family in North Germany, and who was a perfect gentleman in the highest sense of the word,
was looked upon as her adorer, while the other, who was his most intimate friend, yet, in spite
of his ancient name and his position as attaché to a foreign legation, gave people that distinct
impression that he was an adventurer, which makes the police keep such a careful eye on some
persons, and he had the reputation of being an unscrupulous and dangerous duellist. Short,
thin, with a yellow complexion, with strongly-marked but engaging features, an aquiline nose
and bright, dark eyes, he was the typical picture of a man who seduces women and kills men.

The handsome woman appeared to be in love with the Count, and to take an interest in his friend;
at least, that was the construction that the others in the dining-room put upon the situation,
as far as it could be made out from the behavior and looks of the people concerned, and especially
from their looks, for it was strange how devotedly and ardently the beautiful woman's blue
eyes rested on the Count, and with what wild, diabolical sympathy she gazed at the Italian
from time to time, and it was hard to guess whether there was most love or hatred in that glance.
None of the four, however, who were then dining and chatting so gaily together, had any presentiment
at the time that they were amusing themselves over a mine, which might explode at any moment,
and bury them all.

It was the husband of the beautiful woman who provided the tinder. One day he told her that
she must make up her mind to the most rigid retrenchment, give up her box at the opera, and
sell her carriage and horses, if she did not wish to risk her whole position in society. Her
creditors had lost all patience, and were threatening to distrain on her property, and even
to put her in prison. She made no reply to this revelation, but during dinner she said to the
Count, in a whisper, that she must speak to him later, and would, therefore, come to see him
at his house. When it was dark, she came thickly veiled, and after she had responded to his
demonstrations of affection for some time, with more patience than amiableness, she began.
Their conversation is extracted from his diary.

"You are so unconcerned and happy, while misery and disgrace are threatening me!" "Please explain
what you mean!" "I have incurred some debts." "Again?" he said reproachfully, "why do you not
come to me at once, for you must do it in the end, and then at least you would avoid any exposure?"
"Please do not take me to task," she replied; "you know it only makes me angry. I want some
money; can you give me some?" "How much do you want?" She hesitated, for she had not the courage
to name the real amount, but at last she said, in a low voice: "Five thousand florins."[5]
It was evidently only a small portion of what she really required, so he replied: "I am sure
you want more than that!" "No." "Really not?" "Do not make me angry."

[Footnote 5: About £500, nominally.]

He shrugged his shoulders, went to his strong box and gave her the money, whereupon she nodded,
and giving him her hand, she said: "You are always kind, and as long as I have you, I am not
afraid; but if I were to lose you, I should be the most unhappy woman in the world." "You always
have the same fears; but I shall never leave you; it would be impossible for me to separate
from you," the Count exclaimed. "And if you die?" she interrupted him hastily. "If I die?"
the Count said, with a peculiar smile. "I have provided for you in that eventuality also."
"Do you mean to say" ... she stammered, flushed, and her large, lovely eyes rested on her lover
with an indescribable expression in them. He, however, opened a drawer in his writing-table,
and took out a document, which he gave her. It was his will. She opened it with almost indecent
haste, and when she saw the amount--thirty thousand florins--she grew pale to her very lips.

It was a moment in which the germs of a crime were sown in her breast, but one of those crimes
which cannot be touched by the Criminal Code. A few days after she had paid her visit to the
Count, she herself received one from the Italian. In the course of conversation he took a jewel
case out of his breast pocket and asked her opinion of the ornaments, as she was well-known
for her taste in such matters, telling her at the same time, that it was intended as a present
for an actress, with whom he was on intimate terms.--"It is a magnificent set!" she said, as
she looked at it. "You have made an excellent selection." Then she suddenly became absorbed
in thought, while her nostrils began to quiver, and that touch of cold cruelty played on her lips.

"Do you think that the lady for whom this ornament is intended will be pleased with it?" the
Italian asked. "Certainly," she replied; "I myself would give a great deal to have it." "Then
may I venture to offer it to you?" the Italian said.

She blushed, but did not refuse it, but the same evening she rushed into her lover's room in
a state of the greatest excitement. "I am beside myself," she stammered; "I have been most
deeply insulted." "By whom?" the Count asked, excitedly. "By your friend, who has dared to
send me some jewelry to-day. I suppose he looks upon me as a lost woman; perhaps I am already
looked upon as belonging to the demi-monde, and this I owe to you, to you alone, and to my
mad love for you, to which I have sacrificed my honor and everything. Everything!" She threw
herself down and sobbed, and would not be pacified until the Count gave her his word of honor
that he would set aside every consideration for his friend, and obtain satisfaction for her
at any price. He met the Italian the same evening at a card party and questioned him.

"I did not, in the first place, send the lady the jewelry, but I gave it to her myself, not,
however, until she had asked me to do so." "That is a shameful lie!" the Count shouted, furiously.
Unfortunately, there were others present, and his friend took the matter seriously, so the
next morning he sent his seconds to the Count.

Some of their real friends tried to settle the matter in another way, but his bad angel, his
mistress, who required thirty thousand florins, drove the Count to his death. He was found
in the Prater, with his friend's bullet in his chest. A letter in his pocket spoke of suicide,
but the police did not doubt for a moment that a duel had taken place. Suspicion soon fell
on the Italian, but when they went to arrest him, he had already made his escape.

The husband of the beautiful, problematical woman, called on the broken-hearted father of the
man who had been killed in the duel, and who had hastened to Vienna on receipt of a telegraphic
message, a few hours after his arrival, and demanded the money. "My wife was your son's most
intimate friend," he stammered, in embarrassment, in order to justify his action as well as
he could. "Oh! I know that," the old Count replied, "and female friends of that kind want to
be paid immediately, and in full. Here are the thirty thousand florins."

And our Goldkind? She paid her debts, and then withdrew from the scene for a while. She had
been compromised, certainly, but then, she had risen in value in the eyes of those numerous
men who can only adore and sacrifice themselves for a woman when her foot is on the threshold
of vice and crime.

I saw her last during the Franco-German war, in the beautiful Mirabell-garden at Salzburg.
She did not seem to feel any qualms of conscience, for she had become considerably stouter,
which made her more attractive, more beautiful, and consequently, more dangerous, than she
was before.

THE CARNIVAL OF LOVE

The Princess Leonie was one of those beautiful, brilliant enigmas, who irresistibly allure
everyone like a Sphinx, for she was young, charming, and singularly lovely, and understood
how to heighten her charms not a little by carefully-chosen dresses. She was a great lady of
the right stamp, and was very intellectual into the bargain, which is not the case with all
aristocratic ladies; she also took great interest in art and literature, and it was even said
that she patronized one of our poets in a manner which was worthy of the Medicis, and that
she strewed the beautiful roses of continual female sympathy on to his thorny path. All this
was evident to everybody, and had nothing strange about it, but the world would have liked
to know the history of that woman, and to look into the depths of her soul, and because people
could not do this in Princess Leonie's case, they thought it very strange.

No one could read that face, which was always beautiful, always cheerful, and always the same;
no one could fathom those large, dark, unfathomable eyes, which hid their secrets under the
unvarying brilliancy of majestic repose, like a mountain lake, whose waters look black on account
of their depth. For everybody was agreed that the beautiful princess had her secrets, interesting
and precious secrets, like all other ladies of our fashionable world.

Most people looked upon her as a flirt who had no heart, and even no blood, and they asserted
that she was only virtuous because the power of loving was denied her, but that she took all
the more pleasure in seeing that she was loved, and that she set her trammels and enticed her
victims, until they surrendered at discretion at her feet, so that she might leave them to
their fate, and hurry off in pursuit of some fresh game.

Others declared that the beautiful woman had met with her romances in life, and was still having
them, but, as a thorough Messalina, she knew how to conceal her adventures as cleverly as that
French queen who had every one of her lovers thrown into the cold waters of the Seine, as soon
as he quitted her soft, warm arms, and she was described thus to Count Otto F., a handsome
cavalry officer, who had made the acquaintance of the beautiful, dangerous woman at that fashionable
watering place, Karlsbad, and had fallen deeply in love with her.

Even before he had been introduced to her, the Princess had already exchanged fiery, encouraging
glances with him, and when a brother officer took him to call on her, she welcomed him with
a smile which appeared to promise him happiness, but after he had paid his court to her for
a month, he did not seem to have made any progress, and as she possessed in a high degree the
skill of being able to avoid even the shortest private interviews, it appeared as if matters
would go no further than that delightful promise.

Night after night, the enamored young officer walked along the garden railings of her villa
as close to her windows as possible, without being noticed by any one, and at last fortune
seemed to favor him. The moon, which was nearly at the full, was shining brightly, and in its
silvery light he saw a tall, female figure, with large plaits round her head, coming along
the grave path; he stood still, as he thought he recognized the Princess, but as she came nearer
he saw a pretty girl, whom he did not know, and who came up to the railings and said to him
with a smile: "What can I do for you, Count?" mentioning his name.

"You seem to know me, Fräulein." "Oh! I am only the Princess's lady's-maid." ... "But you could
do me a great favor." "How?" she asked quickly: "You might give the Princess a letter." ...
"I should not venture to do that," the girl replied with a peculiar, half-mocking, half-pitying
smile, and with a deep curtsey, she disappeared behind the raspberry bushes which formed a
hedge along the railings.

The next morning, as the Count, with several other ladies and gentlemen, was accompanying the
Princess home from the pump-room, the fair coquette let her pocket-handkerchief fall just outside
her house. The young officer took this for a hint, so he picked it up, concealed the letter
that he had written, which he always kept about him so as to be prepared for any event, in
the folds of the soft cambric, and gave it back to the Princess, who quickly put it into her
pocket. That also seemed to him to be a good augury, and, in fact, in the course of a few hours
he received a note in disguised handwriting, by the post, in which his bold wooing was graciously
entertained, and an appointment was made for the same night in the pavilion of the Princess's
villa.

The happiness of the enamored young officer knew no bounds; he kissed the letter a hundred
times, thanked the Princess when he met her in the afternoon where the band was playing by
his animated looks, which she either did not or could not understand, and at night was standing
an hour before the appointed time behind the wall at the bottom of the garden.

When the church clock struck eleven he climbed over it and jumped on to the ground on the other
side, and looked about him carefully; then he went up to the small, white-washed summer-house,
where the Princess had promised to meet him, on tiptoe. He found the door ajar, went in, and
at the same moment he felt two soft arms thrown round him. "Is it you, Princess?" he asked,
in a whisper, for the pavilion was in total darkness, as the venetian blinds were drawn. "Yes,
Count, it is I." ... "How cruel." ... "I love you, but I am obliged to conceal my passion under
the mask of coldness because of my social position."

As she said this, the enamored woman, who was trembling on his breast with excitement, drew
him on to a couch that occupied one side of the pavilion, and began to kiss him ardently. The
lovers spent two blissful hours in delightful conversation and intoxicating pleasures; then
she bade him farewell, and told him to remain where he was until she had gone back to the house.
He obeyed her, but could not resist looking at her through the venetian blinds, and he saw
her tall, slim figure as she went along the gravel path with an undulating walk. She wore a
white boumous, which he recognized as having seen in the pump-room; her soft, black hair fell
down over her shoulders, and before she disappeared into the villa she stood for a moment and
looked back, but he could not see her face, as she wore a thick veil.

When Count F. met the Princess the next morning in company with other ladies, when the band
was playing, she showed an amount of unconstraint which confused him, and while she was joking
in the most unembarrassed manner, he turned crimson and stammered out such a lot of nonsense
that the ladies noticed it, and made him the target for their wit. None of them was bolder
or more confident in their attacks on him than the Princess, so that at last he looked upon
the woman who concealed so much passion in her breast, and who yet could command herself so
thoroughly, as a kind of miracle, and at last said to himself: "The world is right; woman is
a riddle!"

The Princess remained there for some weeks longer, and always maintained the same polite and
friendly, but cool and sometimes ironical, demeanor towards him, but he easily endured being
looked upon as her unfortunate adorer by the world, for at least every other day a small, scented
note, stamped with her arms and signed Leonie, summoned him to the pavilion, and there he enjoyed
the full, delightful possession of the beautiful woman. It, however, struck him as strange
that she would never let him see her face. Her head was always covered with a thick black veil,
through which he could see her eyes, which sparkled with love, glistening; he passed his fingers
through her hair, he saw her well-known dresses, and once he succeeded in getting possession
of one of her pocket-handkerchiefs, on which the name Leonie and the princely coronet were
magnificently embroidered.

When she returned to Vienna for the winter, a note from her invited him to follow her there,
and as he had indefinite leave of absence from his regiment, he could obey the commands of
his divinity. As soon as he arrived there he received another note, which forbade him to go
to her house, but promised him a speedy meeting in his rooms, and so the young officer had
the furniture elegantly renovated, and looked forward to a visit from the beautiful woman with
all a lover's impatience.

At last she came, wrapped in a magnificent cloak of green velvet, trimmed with ermine, but
still thickly veiled, and before she came in she made it a condition that the room in which
he received her should be quite dark, and after he had put out all the lights she threw off
her fur, and her coldness gave way to the most impetuous tenderness.

"What is the reason that you will never allow me to see your dear, beautiful face?" the officer
asked. "It is a whim of mine, and I suppose I have the right to indulge in whims," she said,
hastily. "But I so long once more to see your splendid figure and your lovely face in full
daylight," the Count continued. "Very well then, you shall see me at the Opera this evening."

She left him at six o'clock, after stopping barely an hour with him, and as soon as her carriage
had driven off he dressed and went to the opera. During the overture, he saw the Princess enter
her box and looking dazzlingly beautiful; she was wearing the same green velvet cloak, trimmed
with ermine, that he had had in his hands a short time before, but almost immediately she let
it fall from her shoulders, and showed a bust which was worthy of the Goddess of Love. She
spoke with her husband with much animation, and smiled with her usual cold smile, though she
did not give her adorer even a passing look, but, in spite of this, he felt the happiest of
mortals.

In Vienna, however, the Count was not as fortunate as he had been at Karlsbad, where he had
first met her, for his beautiful mistress only came to see him once a week; often she only
stopped a short time with him, and once nearly six weeks passed without her favoring him at
all, and she did not even make any excuse for remaining away. Just then, however, Leonie's
husband accidentally made the young officer's acquaintance at the Jockey Club, took a fancy
to him, and asked him to go and see him at his house.

When he called and found the Princess alone his heart felt as if it would burst with pleasure,
and seizing her hand, he pressed it ardently to his lips. "What are you doing, Count?" she
said, drawing back. "You are behaving very strangely." "We are alone," the young officer whispered,
"so why this mask of innocence? Your cruelty is driving me mad, for it is six weeks since you
came to see me last." "I certainly think you are out of your mind," the Princess replied, with
every sign of the highest indignation, and hastily left the drawing-room. Nothing else remained
for the Count but to do the same thing, but his mind was in a perfect whirl, and he was quite
incapable of explaining to himself the Princess's enigmatical behavior. He dined at an hotel
with some friends, and when he got home he found a note in which the Princess begged him to
pardon her, and promised to justify her conduct, for which purpose she would see him at eight
o'clock that evening.

Scarcely, however, had he read her note, when two of his brother-officers came to see him,
and asked him, with well-simulated anxiety, whether he were ill. When he said that he was perfectly
well, one of them continued, laughing: "Then please explain the occurrence that is in everybody's
mouth to-day, in which you play such a comical part."--"I, a comical part?" the Count shouted.--"Well,
is it not very comical when you call on a lady like Princess Leonie, whom you do not know,
to upbraid her for her cruelty, and most unceremoniously call her thou[6]?"

[Footnote 6: In Germany, thou du, is only used between near relations, lovers, very intimate
friends, to children, servants, &c.--TRANSLATOR.]

That was too much; Count F. might pardon the Princess for pretending not to know him in society,
but that she should make him a common laughing-stock, nearly drove him mad. "If I call the
Princess thou," he exclaimed, "it is because I have the right to do so, as I will prove."--His
comrades shrugged their shoulders, but he asked them to come again punctually at seven o'clock,
and then he made his preparations.

At eight o'clock his divinity made her appearance, still thickly veiled, but on this occasion
wearing a valuable sable cloak. As usual, Count F. took her into the dark-room and locked the
outer door; then he opened that which led into his bedroom, and his two friends came in, each
with a candle in his hand.--The lady in the sable cloak cried out in terror when Count F. pulled
off her veil, but then it was his turn to be surprised, for it was not the Princess Leonie
who stood before him, but her pretty lady's-maid, who, now she was discovered, confessed that
love had driven her to assume her mistress's part, in which she had succeeded perfectly, on
account of the similarity of their figure, eyes and hair. She had found the Count's letter
in the Princess's pocket-handkerchief when they were at Karlsbad and had answered it. She had
made him happy, and had heightened the illusion which her figure gave rise to by borrowing
the Princess's dresses.

Of course the Count was made great fun of, and turned his back on Vienna hastily that same
evening, but the pretty lady's-maid also disappeared soon after the catastrophe, and only by
those means escaped from her mistress's well-merited anger; for it turned out that that gallant
little individual had already played the part of her mistress more than once, and had made
all those hopeless adorers of the Princess, who had found favor in her own eyes, happy in her
stead.

Thus the enigma was solved which Princess Leonie seemed to have proposed to the world.

A DEER PARK IN THE PROVINCES

It is not very long ago that an Hungarian Prince, who was in an Austrian cavalry regiment,
was quartered in a wealthy Austrian garrison town. The ladies of the local aristocracy naturally
did everything they could to allure the new comer, who was young, good-looking, animated and
amusing, into their nets, and at last one of the ripe beauties, who was now resting there on
her amorous laurels, after innumerable victories on the hot floors of Viennese society, succeeded
in taking him in her toils, but only for a short time, for she had very nearly reached that
limit in age where, on the man's side, love ceases and esteem begins. But she had more sense
than most women, and she recognized the fact in good time, and as she did not wish to give
up the principal character which she played in society there so easily, she reflected as to
what means she could employ to bind him to her in another manner. It is well known that the
notorious Marchioness de Pompadour, who was one of the mistresses of Louis XV. of France, when
her own charms did not suffice to fetter that changeable monarch, conceived the idea of securing
the chief power in the State and in society for herself, by having a pavilion in the deer park,
which belonged to her, and where Louis XV. was in the habit of hunting, fitted up with every
accommodation of a harem, where she brought beautiful women and girls of all ranks of life
to the arms of her royal lover.

Inspired by that historical example, the baroness began to arrange evening parties, balls,
and private theatricals in the winter, and in the summer excursions into the country, and thus
she gave the Prince, who at that time was still, so to say, at her feet, the opportunity of
plucking fresh flowers. But even this clever expedient did not avail in the long run, for beautiful
women were scarce in that provincial town, and the few which the local aristocracy could produce
were not able to offer the Prince any fresh attractions, when he had made their closer acquaintance.
At last, therefore, he turned his back on the highly-born Messalinas, and began to bestow marked
attention on the pretty women and girls of the middle classes, either in the streets or when
he was in his box at the theater.

There was one girl in particular, the daughter of a well-to-do merchant, who was supposed to
be the most beautiful girl in the capital, on to whom his opera glass was constantly leveled,
and whom he even followed occasionally without being noticed. But Baroness Pompadour soon got
wind of this unprincely taste, and determined to do everything in her power to keep her lover
and the whole nobility, which was threatened, from such an unheard-of disgrace, as an intrigue
of a Prince with a girl of the middle classes, would have been in her eyes. "It is really sad,"
the outraged baroness once said to me, "that in these days princes and monarchs choose their
mistresses only from the stage, or even from the scum of the people. But it is the fault of
our ladies themselves. They mistake their vocation! Ah! Where are those delightful times when
the daughters of the first families looked upon it as an honor to become their princes' mistresses?"

Consequently, the horror of the blue-blooded, aristocratic lady was intense when the Prince,
in his usual, amiable, careless manner, suggested to her to people her deer park with girls
of the lower orders.

"It is a ridiculous prejudice," the Prince said on that occasion, "which obliges us to shut
ourselves off from the other ranks, and to confine ourselves altogether to our own circle,
for monotony and boredom are the inevitable consequences of it. How many honorable men of sense
and education, and especially how many charming women and girls there are, who do not belong
to the aristocracy, who would infuse fresh life and a new charm into our dull, listless society!
I very much wish that a lady like you would make a beginning, and would give up this exclusiveness,
which cannot be maintained in these days, and would enrich our circle with the charming daughters
of middle class families."

A wish of the Prince's was as good as a command; so the baroness made a wry face, but she accommodated
herself to the circumstances, and promised to invite some of the prettiest girls of the plebs
to a ball in a few days. She really issued a number of invitations, and even condescended to
drive to the house of each of them in person. "But I must ask one thing of you," she said to
each of the pretty girls, "and that is to come dressed as simply as possible; washing muslins
will be best. The Prince dislikes all finery and ostentation and he would be very vexed with
me if I were the cause of any extravagance on your part."

The great day arrived; it was quite an event for the little town, and all classes of society
were in a state of the greatest excitement. The pretty, plebeian girls, with her whom the Prince
had first noticed at their head, appeared in all their innocence, in plain, washing dresses,
according to the Prince's orders, with their hair plainly dressed, and without any ornaments,
except their own fresh, buxom charms. When they were all captives in the den of the proud,
aristocratic lioness, the poor little mice were very much terrified when suddenly the aristocratic
ladies came into the ball-room, rustling in whole oceans of silks and lace, with their haughty
heads changed into so many hanging gardens of Semiramis, loaded with all the treasures of India,
and radiant as the sun.

At first the poor girls looked down in shame and confusion, and Baroness Pompadour's eyes glistened
with all the joy of triumph, but her ill-natured pleasure did not last long, for the intrigue,
on which the Prince's ignoble passions were to make shipwreck, recoiled on the highly-born
lady patroness of the deer park.

It was not the aristocratic ladies in their magnificent toilettes that threw the girls from
the middle classes into the shade, but, on the contrary, those pretty girls in their washing
dresses, and with the plain but splendid ornament of their abundant hair looked far more charming
than they would have done in silk dresses with long trains, and with flowers in their hair,
and the novelty and unwontedness of their appearance there allured not only the Prince, but
all the other gentlemen and officers, so that the proud grand-daughters of the lions, griffins,
and eagles, were quite neglected by the gentlemen, who danced almost exclusively with the pretty
girls of the middle classes.

The faded lips of the baronesses and countesses uttered many a "For Shame!" but all in vain,
neither was it any good for the Baroness to make up her mind that she would never again put
a social medley before the Prince in her drawing-room, for he had seen through her intrigue,
and gave her up altogether. Sic transit gloria mundi!

She, however, consoled herself as best she could.

THE WHITE LADY

Fortuna, the goddess of chance and good luck, has always been Cupid's best ally and Arnold
T., who was a lieutenant in a hussar regiment, was evidently a special favorite of both those
roguish deities.

This good-looking, well-bred young officer had been an enthusiastic admirer of the two Countesses
W., mother and daughter, during a tolerably long leave of absence, which he spent with his
relations in Vienna. He had admired them from the Prater, and worshiped them at the opera,
but he had never had an opportunity of making their acquaintance, and when he was back at his
dull quarters in Galicia, he liked to think about those two aristocratic beauties. Last summer
his regiment was transferred to Bohemia, to a wildly romantic district, that had been made
illustrious by a talented writer, which abounded in magnificent woods, lofty mountain-forests
and castles, and which was a favorite summer resort of the neighboring aristocracy.

Who can describe his joyful surprise, when he and his men were quartered in an old, weather-beaten
castle in the middle of a wood, and he learnt from the house-steward who received him that
the owner of the castle was the husband, and, consequently, also the father of his Viennese
ideals. An hour after he had taken possession of his old-fashioned, but beautifully furnished,
room in a side-wing of the castle, he put on his full-dress uniform, and throwing his dolman
over his shoulders, he went to pay his respects to the Count and the ladies.

He was received with the greatest cordiality. The Count was delighted to have a companion when
he went out shooting, and the ladies were no less pleased at having some one to accompany them
on their walks in the forests, or on their rides, so that he felt only half on the earth, and
half in the seventh heaven of Mohammedan bliss. Before supper he had time to inspect the house
more closely, and even to take a sketch of the large, gloomy building from a favorable point.
The ancient seat of the Counts of W. was really very gloomy; in fact it created a sinister,
uncomfortable feeling. The walls, which were crumbling away here and there, and which were
covered with dark ivy; the round towers, which harbored jackdaws, owls, and hawks; the Æolian
harp, which complained and sighed and wept in the wind; the stones in the castle yard, which
were overgrown with grass; the cloisters, in which every footstep re-echoed; the great ancestral
portraits which hung on the walls, coated as it were with dark, mysterious veils by the centuries
which had passed over them--all this recalled to him the legends and fairy tales of his youth,
and he involuntarily thought of the Sleeping Beauty in the Wood, and of Blue Beard, of the
cruel mistress of the Kynast,[7] and that aristocratic tigress of the Carpathians, who obtained
the unfading charms of eternal youth by bathing in human blood.

[Footnote 7: A Castle, now a well-preserved ruin, in the Giant Mountains in N. Germany. The
legend is that its mistress, Kunigerude, vowed to marry nobody except the Knight who should
ride round the parapet of the Castle, and many perished in the attempt. At last one of them
succeeded in performing the feat, but he merely sternly rebuked her, and took his leave. He
was accompanied by his wife, disguised as his page, according to some versions of the legend.--TRANSLATOR.]

He came in to supper where he found himself for the first time in company with all the members
of the family, just in the frame of mind that was suitable for ghosts, and was not a little
surprised when his host told him, half smiling and half seriously, that the "White Lady" was
disturbing the castle again, and that she had latterly been seen very often. "Yes, indeed,"
Countess Ida exclaimed; "You must take care, Baron, for she haunts the very wing where your
room is." The hussar was just in the frame of mind to take the matter seriously, but, on the
other hand, when he saw the dark, ardent eyes of the Countess, and then the merry blue eyes
of her daughter fixed on him, any real fear of ghosts was quite out of the question with him.
For Baron T. feared nothing in this world, but he possessed a very lively imagination, which
could conjure up threatening forms from another world so plainly that sometimes he felt very
uncomfortable at his own fancies. But on the present occasion that malicious apparition had
no power over him; the ladies took care of that, for both of them were beautiful and amiable.

The Countess was a mature Venus of thirty-six, of middle height, and with the voluptuous figure
of a true Viennese, with bright eyes, thick dark hair, and beautiful white teeth, while her
daughter Ida, who was seventeen, had light hair and the pert little nose of the china figures
of shepherdesses in the dress of the period of Louis XIV., and was short, slim, and full of
French grace. Besides them and the Count, a son of twelve and his tutor were present at supper.
It struck the hussar as strange that the tutor, who was a strongly-built young man, with a
winning face and those refined manners which the greatest plebeian quickly acquires when brought
into close and constant contact with the aristocracy, was treated with great consideration
by all the family except the Countess, who treated him very haughtily. She assumed a particularly
imperious manner towards her son's tutor, and she either found fault with, or made fun of,
everything that he did, while he put up with it all with smiling humility.

Before supper was over their conversation again turned on to the ghost, and Baron T. asked
whether they did not possess a picture of the White Lady. "Of course we have one," they all
replied at once; whereupon Baron T. begged to be allowed to see it. "I will show it you to-morrow,"
the Count said. "No, Papa, now, immediately," the younger lady said mockingly; "just before
the ghostly hour, such a thing creates a much greater impression."

All who were present, not excepting the boy and his tutor, took a candle and then they walked
as if they had formed a torchlight procession, to the wing of the house where the hussar's
room was. There was a life-size picture of the White Lady hanging in a Gothic passage near
his room, among other ancestral portraits, and it by no means made a terrible impression on
anyone who looked at it, but rather the contrary. The ghost, dressed in stiff, gold brocade
and purple velvet, and with a hawk on her wrist, looked like one of those seductive Amazons
of the fifteenth century, who exercised the art of laying men and game at their feet with equal
skill.

"Don't you think that the White Lady is very like mamma?" Countess Ida said, interrupting the
Baron's silent contemplation of the picture. "There is no doubt of it," the hussar replied,
while the Countess smiled and the tutor turned red, and they were still standing before the
picture, when a strong gust of wind suddenly extinguished all the lights, and they all uttered
a simultaneous cry. The White Lady, the little Count whispered, but she did not come, and as
it was luckily a moonlight night, they soon recovered from their momentary shock. The family
retired to their apartments, while the hussar and the tutor went to their own rooms, which
were situated in the wing of the castle which was haunted by the White Lady; the officer's
being scarcely thirty yards from the portrait, while the tutor's were rather further down the
corridor.

The hussar went to bed, and was soon fast asleep, and though he had rather uneasy dreams nothing
further happened. But while they were at breakfast the next morning, the Count's body-servant
told them, with every appearance of real terror, that as he was crossing the court-yard at
midnight, he had suddenly heard a noise like bats in the open cloisters, and when he looked
he distinctly saw the White Lady gliding slowly through them; but they merely laughed at the
poltroon, and though our hussar laughed also, he fully made up his mind, without saying a word
about it, to keep a look-out for the ghost that night.

Again they had supper alone, without any company, had some music and pleasant talk and separated
at half-past eleven. The hussar, however, only went to his room for form's sake; he loaded
his pistols, and when all was quiet in the castle, he crept down into the court-yard and took
up his position behind a pillar which was quite hidden in the shade, while the moon, which
was nearly at the full, flooded the cloisters with its clear, pale light.

There were no lights to be seen in the castle except from two windows, which were those of
the Countess's apartments, and soon they were also extinguished. The clock struck twelve, and
the hussar could scarcely breathe from excitement; the next moment, however, he heard the noise
which the Count's body-servant had compared to that of bats, and almost at the same instant
a white figure glided slowly through the open cloisters and passed so close to him, that it
almost made his blood curdle, and then it disappeared in the wing of the castle which he and
the tutor occupied.

The officer who was usually so brave, stood as though he was paralyzed for a few moments, but
then he took heart, and feeling determined to make the nearer acquaintance of the spectral
beauty, he crept softly up the broad staircase and took up his position in a deep recess in
the cloisters, where nobody could see him.

He waited for a long time; he heard every quarter strike, and at last, just before the close
of the witching hour, he heard the same noise like the rustling of bats, and then she came,
he felt the flutter of her white dress, and she stood before him--it was indeed the Countess.

He presented his pistol at her as he challenged her, but she raised her hand menacingly. "Who
are you?" he exclaimed. "If you are really a ghost, prove it, for I am going to fire." "For
heaven's sake!" the White Lady whispered, and at the same instant two white arms were thrown
round him, and he felt a full, warm bosom heaving against his own.

After that night the ghost appeared more frequently still. Not only did the White Lady make
her appearance every night in the cloisters, only to disappear in the proximity of the hussar's
rooms as long as the family remained at the castle, but she even followed them to Vienna.

Baron T., who went to that capital on leave of absence during the following winter, and who
was the Count's guest at the express wish of his wife, was frequently told by the footman that
although hitherto she had seemed to be confined to the old castle in Bohemia, she had shown
herself now here, now there, in the mansion in Vienna, in a white dress and making a noise
like the wings of a bat, and bearing a striking resemblance to the beautiful Countess.

CAUGHT

A young and charming lady, who was a member of the Viennese aristocracy, went last summer,
like young and charming ladies usually do, to a fashionable Austrian watering place, Carlsbad,
which is much frequented by foreigners, without her husband.

As is usually the case in their rank of life, she had married from family considerations and
for money; and the short spell of Love after Marriage was not sufficient to take deep root,
and after she had satisfied family traditions and her husband's wishes by giving birth to a
son and heir, they both went their way; the young, handsome and fascinating man to his clubs,
the race-course, and behind the scenes at the theaters, and his charming, coquettish wife to
her box at the opera, to the ice in winter, and to some fashionable watering place in the summer.

On the present occasion she brought a young, very highly-connected Pole with her from one of
the latter resorts, who enjoyed all the rights and the liberty of an avowed favorite, and who
had to perform all the duties of a slave.

As is usual in such cases, the lady rented a small house in one of the suburbs of Vienna, had
it beautifully furnished and received her lover there. She was always dressed very attractively,
sometimes as La Belle Hélène in Offenbach's Opera, only rather more after the ancient Greek
fashion; another time as an Odalisque in the Sultan's harem, and another time as a lighthearted
Suabian girl, and so forth. In winter, however, she grew tired of such meetings, and she wanted
to have matters more comfortable, so she took it into her head to receive her lover in her
own house. But how was it to be done? That, however, gave her no particular difficulty, as
is the case with every woman, when once she has made up her mind to a thing, and after thinking
it over for a day or two she went to the next rendez-vous, with a fully prepared plan of war.

The Pole was one of those types of handsome men which are rare; he was almost womanly in his
delicate features, of the middle height, slim and well-made, and he resembled a youthful Bacchus
who might very easily be made to pass for a Venus by the help of false locks; the more so as
there was not even the slightest down on his lips. The lady, therefore, who was very fertile
in resources, suggested to the handsome Pole that he might just as well transform himself into
a handsome Polish lady, so that he might, under the cover of the ever feminine, be able to
visit her undisturbed, and as it was winter, the thick, heavy, capacious dress assisted the
metamorphosis.

The lady, accordingly, bought a number of very beautiful costumes for her lover, and in the
course of a few days she told her husband that a charming young Polish lady, whose acquaintance
she had made in the summer at Carlsbad, was going to spend the winter in Vienna, and would
very frequently come and see her. Her husband listened to her with the greatest indifference,
for it was one of his fundamental rules never to make love to any of his wife's female friends,
and he went to his club as usual at night, and the next day had forgotten all about the Polish
lady.

And now, half an hour after the husband had left the house, a cab drove up and a tall, slim,
heavily veiled lady got out and went up the thickly carpeted stairs, only to be metamorphosed
into the most ardent lover in the young woman's boudoir. The young Pole grew accustomed to
his female attire so quickly that he even ventured to appear in the streets in it, and when
he began to make conquests, and aristocratic gentlemen and successful speculators on the Stock
Exchange looked at him significantly, and even followed him, he took a real pleasure in the
part he was playing, and began to understand the pleasure a coquette feels in tormenting men.

The young Pole became more and more daring, until at last one evening he went to a private
box at the opera, wrapped in an ermine cloak, on to which his dark, false curls fell in heavy
waves.

A handsome young man in a box opposite to him ogled him incessantly from the first moment,
and the young Pole responded in a manner which made the other bolder every minute. At the end
of the third act, the box opener brought the fictitious Venus a small bouquet with a card concealed
in it, on which was written in pencil: "You are the most lovely woman in the world, and I implore
you on my knees to grant me an interview." The young Pole read the name of the man who had
been captivated so quickly, and, with a peculiar smile, wrote on a card on which nothing but
the name "Valeska" was printed: "After the theater," and sent Cupid's messenger back with it.

When the spurious Venus was about to enter her carriage after the performance, thickly veiled
and wrapped in her ermine cloak, the handsome young man was standing by it with his hat off,
and he opened the door for her. She was kind enough to allow him to get in with her and during
their drive she talked to him in the most charming manner, but she was cruel enough to dismiss
him without pity before they reached her house, and this she did every time. For she went to
the theater each night now, and every evening she received an ardent note, and every evening
she allowed the amorous swain to accompany her as far as her house, and men were beginning
to envy him on account of his brilliant conquest, when a catastrophe happened which was very
surprising for all concerned.

The husband of the lady in whose eyes the Pole had found favor, surprised the loving couple
one day under circumstances which made any justification impossible. But while he, trembling
with rage and jealousy, was drawing a small Circassian dagger which hung against the wall from
its sheath, and as his wife threw herself, half-fainting, on to a couch, the young Pole had
hastily put the false curls on to his head, and had slipped into the silk dress and the sable
cloak which he had been wearing when he came into his mistress's boudoir. "What does this mean,"
the husband stammered, "Valeska?"--"Yes, sir," the young Pole replied; "Valeska, who has come
here to show your wife a few love letters, which." ... "No, no," the deceived, but nevertheless
guilty, husband said in imploring accents; "no, that is quite unnecessary." And at the same
time he put the dagger back into its sheath. "Very well then, there is a truce between us,"
the Pole observed coolly, "but do not forget what weapons I possess, and which I mean to retain
against all contingencies."

Then the gentlemen bowed politely to each other, and the unexpected meeting came to an end.

From that time forward, the terms on which the young married couple lived together assumed
the character of that everlasting peace, which President Grant once promised to the whole world
in his message to all nations. The young woman did not find it necessary to make her lover
put on petticoats, and the husband constantly accompanied the real Valeska a good deal further
than he did the false one on that memorable occasion.

CHRISTMAS EVE

"The Christmas-eve supper![8] Oh! no, I shall never go in for that again!" Stout Henri Templier
said that in a furious voice, as if some one had proposed some crime to him, while the others
laughed and said:

"What are you flying into a rage about?"

[Footnote 8: A great institution in France, and especially in Paris, at which black puddings
are an indispensable dish.--TRANSLATOR.]

"Because a Christmas-eve supper played me the dirtiest trick in the world, and ever since I
have felt an insurmountable horror for that night of imbecile gayety."

"Tell us what it is?"

"You want to know what it was? Very well then, just listen.

"You remember how cold it was two years ago at Christmas; cold enough to kill poor people in
the streets. The Seine was covered with ice; the pavements froze one's feet through the soles
of one's boots, and the whole world seemed to be at the point of going to pot.

"I had a big piece of work on, and so I refused every invitation to supper, as I preferred
to spend the night at my writing table. I dined alone and then began to work. But about ten
o'clock I grew restless at the thought of the gay and busy life all over Paris, at the noise
in the streets which reached me in spite of everything, at my neighbors' preparations for supper,
which I heard through the walls. I hardly knew any longer what I was doing; I wrote nonsense,
and at last I came to the conclusion that I had better give up all hope of producing any good
work that night.

"I walked up and down my room; I sat down and got up again. I was certainly under the mysterious
influence of the enjoyment outside, and I resigned myself to it. So I rang for my servant and
said to her:

"'Angela, go and get a good supper for two; some oysters, a cold partridge, some crayfish,
hams and some cakes. Put out two bottles of champagne, lay the cloth and go to bed.'

"She obeyed in some surprise, and when all was ready, I put on my great coat and went out.
A great question was to be solved: 'Whom was I going to bring in to supper?' My female friends
had all been invited elsewhere, and if I had wished to have one, I ought to have seen about
it beforehand, so I thought that I would do a good action at the same time, and I said to myself:

"'Paris is full of poor and pretty girls who will have nothing on their table to-night, and
who are on the look out for some generous fellow. I will act the part of Providence to one
of them this evening; and I will find one if I have to go into every pleasure resort, and have
to question them and hunt for one till I find one to my choice.' And I started off on my search.

"I certainly found many poor girls, who were on the look-out for some adventure, but they were
ugly enough to give any man a fit of indigestion, or thin enough to freeze as they stood if
they had stopped, and you all know that I have a weakness for stout women. The more flesh they
have, the better I like them, and a female colossus would drive me out of my senses with pleasure.

"Suddenly, opposite the Théâtre des Variétés, I saw a face to my liking. A good head, and then
two protuberances, that on the chest very beautiful, and that on the stomach simply surprising;
it was the stomach of a fat goose. I trembled with pleasure, and said:

"'By Jove! What a fine girl!'

"It only remained for me to see her face. A woman's face is the dessert, while the rest is
... the joint.

"I hastened on, and overtook her, and turned round suddenly under a gas lamp. She was charming,
quite young, dark, with large, black eyes, and I immediately made my proposition, which she
accepted without any hesitation, and a quarter of an hour later, we were sitting at supper
in my lodgings. 'Oh! how comfortable it is here,' she said as she came in, and she looked about
her with evident satisfaction at having found a supper and a bed, on that bitter night. She
was superb; so beautiful that she astonished me, and so stout that she fairly captivated me.

"She took off her cloak and hat, sat down and began to eat; but she seemed in low spirits,
and sometimes her pale face twitched as if she were suffering from some hidden sorrow.

"'Have you anything troubling you?' I asked her.

"'Bah! Don't let us think of troubles!'

"And she began to drink. She emptied her champagne glass at a draught, filled it again, and
emptied it again, without stopping, and soon a little color came into her cheeks, and she began
to laugh.

"I adored her already, kissed her continually, and discovered that she was neither stupid,
nor common, nor coarse as ordinary street-walkers are. I asked her for some details about her
life, but she replied:

"'My little fellow, that is no business of yours!' Alas! an hour later....

"At last it was time to go to bed, and while I was clearing the table, which had been laid
in front of the fire, she undressed herself quickly, and got in. My neighbors were making a
terrible din, singing and laughing like lunatics, and so I said to myself:

"'I was quite right to go out and bring in this girl; I should never have been able to do any
work.'

"At that moment, however, a deep groan made me look round, and I said:

"'What is the matter with you, my dear?'

"She did not reply, but continued to utter painful sighs, as if she were suffering horribly,
and I continued:

"'Do you feel ill?' And suddenly she uttered a cry, a heartrending cry, and I rushed up to
the bed, with a candle in my hand.

"Her face was distorted with pain, and she was wringing her hands, panting and uttering long,
deep groans, which sounded like a rattle in the throat, and which are so painful to hear, and
I asked her in consternation:

"'What is the matter with you? Do tell me what is the matter.'

"'Oh! my stomach! my stomach!' she said. I pulled up the bed-clothes, and I saw ... My friends,
she was in labor.

"Then I lost my head, and I ran and knocked at the wall with my fists, shouting: 'Help! help!'

"My door was opened almost immediately, and a crowd of people came in, men in evening dress,
women in low necks, harlequins, Turks, Musketeers, and this inroad startled me so, that I could
not explain myself, and they, who had thought that some accident had happened, or that a crime
had been committed, could not understand what was the matter. At last, however, I managed to say:

"'This ... this ... woman ... is being confined.'

"Then they looked at her, and gave their opinion, and a Friar, especially, declared that he
knew all about it, and wished to assist nature, but as they were all as drunk as pigs, I was
afraid that they would kill her, and I rushed downstairs without my hat, to fetch an old doctor,
who lived in the next street. When I came back with him, the whole house was up; the gas on
the stairs had been relighted, the lodgers from every floor were in my room, while four boatmen
were finishing my champagne and lobsters.

"As soon as they saw me they raised a loud shout, and a milkmaid presented me with a horrible
little wrinkled specimen of humanity, that was mewing like a cat, and said to me:

"'It is a girl.'

"The doctor examined the woman, declared that she was in a dangerous state, as the event had
occurred immediately after supper, and he took his leave, saying he would immediately send
a sick nurse and a wet nurse, and an hour later, the two women came, bringing all that was
requisite with them.

"I spent the night in my armchair, too distracted to be able to think of the consequences,
and almost as soon as it was light, the doctor came again, who found his patient very ill,
and said to me:

"'Your wife, Monsieur....'

"'She is not my wife,' I interrupted him.

"'Very well then, your mistress; it does not matter to me.'

"He told me what must be done for her, what her diet must be, and then wrote a prescription.

"What was I to do? Could I send the poor creature to the hospital? I should have been looked
upon as a brute in the house and in all the neighborhood, and so I kept her in my rooms, and
she had my bed for six weeks.

"I sent the child to some peasants at Poissy to be taken care of, and she still costs me fifty
francs[9] a month, for as I had paid at first, I shall be obliged to go on paying as long as
I live, and later on, she will believe that I am her father. But to crown my misfortunes, when
the girl had recovered ... I found that she was in love with me, madly in love with me, the
baggage!"

[Footnote 9: £2]

"Well?"

"Well, she had grown as thin as a homeless cat, and I turned the skeleton out of doors, but
she watches for me in the streets, hides herself, so that she may see me pass, stops me in
the evening when I go out, in order to kiss my hand, and, in fact, worries me enough to drive
me mad; and that is why I never keep Christmas eve now."

WORDS OF LOVE

Sunday.--

You do not write to me, I never see you, you never come, so I must suppose that you have ceased
to love me. But why? What have I done? Pray tell me, my own dear love. I love you so much,
so dearly! I should like always to have you near me, to kiss you all day while I called you
every tender name that I could think of. I adore you, I adore you, I adore you, my beautiful
cock.--Your affectionate hen,

SOPHIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Monday.--

My dear friend,

You will absolutely understand nothing of what I am going to say to you, but that does not
matter, and if my letter happens to be read by another woman, it may be profitable to her.

Had you been deaf and dumb, I should no doubt have loved you for a very long time, and the
cause of what has happened is, that you can talk; that is all.

In love, you see, dreams are always made to sing, but in order that they might do so, they
must not be interrupted, and when one talks between two kisses, one always interrupts that
frenzied dream which our souls indulge in, unless they utter sublime words; and sublime words
do not come out of the little mouths of pretty girls.

You do not understand me at all, do you? So much the better, and I will go on. You are certainly
one of the most charming and adorable women whom I have ever seen.

Are there any eyes on earth that contain more dreams than yours, more unknown promises, greater
depths of love? I do not think so. And when that mouth of yours, with its two round lips, smiles,
and shows the glistening white teeth, one is tempted to say that there issues from this ravishing
mouth ineffable music, something inexpressibly delicate, a sweetness which extorts sighs.

It is then that you quietly call out to me, my great and renowned "lady-killer," and it then
seems to me as though I had suddenly found an entrance into your thoughts, which I can see
is ministering to your soul--that little soul of a pretty, little creature, yes, pretty, but--and
that is what troubles me, don't you see, troubles me more than tongue can tell. I would much
prefer never to see you at all.

You go on pretending not to understand anything, do you not? I calculate on that.

Do you remember the first time you came to see me at my residence? How gaily you stepped inside,
an odor of violets, which clung to your skirts, heralding your entrance; how we regarded each
other, for ever so long, without uttering a word, after which we embraced like two fools....
Then ... then from that time to this, we have never exchanged a word.

But when we separated, did not our trembling hands and our eyes say many things, things ...
which cannot be expressed in any language. At least, I thought so; and when you went away,
you murmured:

"We shall meet again soon!"

That was all you said, and you will never guess what delightful dreams you left me, all that
I, as it were, caught a glimpse of, all that I fancied I could guess in your thoughts.

You see, my poor child, for men who are not stupid, who are rather refined and somewhat superior,
love is such a complicated instrument, that the merest trifle puts it out of order. You women
never perceive the ridiculous side of certain things when you love, and you fail to see the
grotesqueness of some expressions.

Why does a word which sounds quite right in the mouth of a small, dark woman, seem quite wrong
and funny in the mouth of a fat, light-haired woman? Why are the wheedling ways of the one,
altogether out of place in the other?

Why is it that certain caresses which are delightful from the one, should be wearisome from
the other? Why? Because in everything, and especially in love, perfect harmony, absolute agreement
in motion, voice, words, and in demonstrations of tenderness, are necessary, with the person
who moves, speaks and manifests affection; it is necessary in age, in height, in the color
of the hair, and in the style of beauty.

If a woman of thirty-five, who has arrived at the age of violent, tempestuous passion, were
to preserve the slightest traces of the caressing archness of her love affairs at twenty, were
not to understand that she ought to express herself differently, look at her lover differently,
and kiss him differently were not to see that she ought to be Dido and not a Juliette, she
would infallibly disgust nine lovers out of ten, even if they could not account to themselves
for their estrangement. Do you understand me? No. I hoped so.

From the time that you turned on your tap of tenderness, it was all over for me, my dear friend.
Sometimes we would embrace for five minutes, in one interminable kiss, one of those kisses
which make lovers close their eyes, as if part of it would escape through their looks, as if
to preserve it entire in that clouded soul which it is ravaging. And then, when our lips separated,
you would say to me:

"That was nice, you fat old dog."

At such moments, I could have beaten you; for you gave me successively all the names of animals
and vegetables which you doubtless found in some cookery book, or Gardener's Manual. But that
is nothing.

The caresses of love are brutal, bestial, and if one comes to think of it, grotesque! ... Oh!
My poor child, what joking elf, what perverse sprite could have prompted the concluding words
of your letter to me? I have made a collection of them, but out of love for you, I will not
show them to you.

And you really sometimes said things which were quite inopportune, and you managed now and
then to let out an exalted: I love you! on such singular occasions, that I was obliged to restrain
a strong desire to laugh. There are times when the words: I love you! are so out of place,
that they become indecorous; let me tell you that.

But you do not understand me, and many other women will also not understand me, and think me
stupid, though that matters very little to me. Hungry men eat like gluttons, but people of
refinement are disgusted at it, and they often feel an invincible dislike for a dish, on account
of a mere trifle. It is the same with love, as it is with cookery.

What I cannot comprehend, for example, is, that certain women who fully understand the irresistible
attraction of fine, embroidered stockings, the exquisite charm of shades, the witchery of valuable
lace concealed in the depths of their underclothing, the exciting jest of hidden luxury, and
all the subtle delicacies of female elegance, never understand the invincible disgust with
which words that are out of place, or foolishly tender, inspire us.

At times coarse and brutal expressions work wonders, as they excite the senses, and make the
heart beat, and they are allowable at the hours of combat. Is not that sentence of Cambronne's
sublime? [10]

[Footnote 10: At Waterloo, General Cambronne is reported to have said, when called on to surrender:--The
Guard dies, but does not surrender. But according to Victor Hugo, in Les Miserables, he used
the expression Merde! which cannot be put into English fit for ears polite.--TRANSLATOR.]

Nothing shocks us that comes at the right time; but then, we must also know when to hold our
tongue, and to avoid phrases à la Paul de Kock, at certain moments.

And I embrace you passionately, on the condition that you say nothing,

RENE.

A DIVORCE CASE

M. Chassel advocate, rises to speak: Mr. President and gentlemen of the jury. The cause that
I am charged to defend before you, requires medicine rather than justice; and is much more
a case of pathology than a case of ordinary law. At first blush the facts seem very simple.

A young man, very rich, with a noble and cultivated mind, and a generous heart, becomes enamored
of a young lady, who is the perfection of beauty, more than beautiful, in fact; she is adorable,
besides being as gracious, as she is charming, as good and true as she is tender and pretty,
and he marries her. For some time, he comports himself towards her not only as a devoted husband,
but as a man full of solicitude and tenderness. Then he neglects her, misuses her, seems to
entertain for her an insurmountable aversion, an irresistible disgust. One day he even strikes
her, not only without any cause, but also without the faintest pretext. I am not going, gentlemen,
to draw a picture of silly allurements, which no one would comprehend. I shall not paint to
you the wretched life of those two beings, and the horrible grief of this young woman. It will
be sufficient to convince you, if I read some fragments from a journal written up every day
by that poor young man, by that poor fool! For it is in the presence of a fool, gentlemen,
that we now find ourselves, and the case is all the more curious, all the more interesting,
seeing that, in many points, it recalls the insanity of the unfortunate prince who recently
died, of the witless king who reigned platonically over Bavaria. I shall hence designate this
case--poetic folly.

You will readily call to mind all that has been told of that most singular prince. He caused
to be erected amid the most magnificent scenery his kingdom afforded, veritable fairy castles.
The reality even of the beauty of the things themselves, as well as of the places, did not
satisfy him. He invented, he created, in these improbable manors, factitious horizons, obtained
by means of theatrical artifices, changes of view, painted forests, fabled empires, in which
the leaves of the trees became precious stones. He had the Alps, and glaciers, steppes, deserts
of sand made hot by a blazing sun; and at nights, under the rays of the real moon, lakes which
sparkled from below by means of fantastic electric lights. Swans floated on the lakes which
glistened with skiffs, while an orchestra, composed of the finest executants in the world,
inebriated with poetry the soul of the royal fool. That man was chaste, that man was a virgin.
He lived only to dream, his dream, his dream divine. One evening he took out with him in his
boat, a lady, young and beautiful, a great artiste, and he begged her to sing. Intoxicated
herself by the magnificent scenery, by the languid softness of the air, by the perfume of flowers,
and by the ecstacy of that prince, both young and handsome, she sang, she sang as women sing
who have been touched by love; then, overcome, trembling, she falls on the bosom of the king
in order to seek out his lips. But he throws her into the lake, and seizing his oars, rows
back to the shore, without concerning himself, whether anybody has saved her or not.

Gentlemen of the jury, we find ourselves in presence of a case similar in every way to that.
I shall say no more now, except to read some passages from the journal which we unexpectedly
came upon in the drawer of an old secretary.

       *       *       *       *       *

How sad and weary is everything; always the same, always hateful. How I dream of a land more
beautiful, more noble, more varied. What a poor conception they have of their God, if their
God existed, or if he had not created other things, elsewhere. Always woods, little woods,
waves which resemble waves, plains which resemble plains, everything is sameness and monotony.
And Man? Man? What a horrible animal! wicked, haughty and repugnant!

       *       *       *       *       *

It is essential to love, to love perdition, without seeing that which one loves. For, to see
is to comprehend, and to comprehend is to embrace. It is necessary to love, to become intoxicated
by it, just as one gets drunk with wine, even to the extent that one knows no longer what one
is drinking. And to drink, to drink, to drink, without drawing breath, day and night!

       *       *       *       *       *

I have found her, I believe. She has about her something ideal which does not belong to this
world, and which furnishes wings to my dream. Ah! my dream! How it reveals to me beings different
from what they really are! She is a blonde, a delicate blonde, with hair whose delicate shade
is inexpressible. Her eyes are blue! Only blue eyes can penetrate my soul. All women, the woman
who lives in my heart, reveal themselves to me in the eye, only in the eyes. Oh! what a mystery,
what a mystery is the eye! The whole universe lives in it, inasmuch as it sees, inasmuch as
it reflects. It contains the universe, both things and beings, forests and oceans, men and
beasts, the settings of the sun, the stars, the arts--all, all, it sees; it collects and absorbs
all; and there is still more in it; the eye of itself has a soul; it has in it the man who
thinks, the man who loves, the man who laughs, the man who suffers! Oh! regard the blue eyes
of women, those eyes that are as deep as the sea, as changeful as the sky, so sweet, so soft,
soft as the breezes, sweet as music, luscious as kisses; and transparent, so clear that one
sees behind them, discerns the soul, the blue soul which colors them, which animates them,
which electrifies them. Yes, the soul has the color of the looks. The blue soul alone contains
in itself that which dreams; it bears its azure to the floods and into space. The eye! Think
of it, the eye! It imbibes the visible life, in order to nourish thought. It drinks in the
world, color, movement, books, pictures, all that is beautiful, all that is ugly, and weaves
ideas out of them. And when it regards us, it gives us the sensation of a happiness that is
not of this earth. It informs us of that of which we have always been ignorant; it makes us
comprehend that the realities of our dreams are but noisome ordures.

       *       *       *       *       *

I love her too for her walk. "Even when the bird walks one feels that it has wings," as the
poet has said. When she passes one feels that she is of another race from ordinary women, of
a race more delicate, and more divine. I shall marry her to-morrow. But I am afraid, I am afraid
of so many things!

       *       *       *       *       *

Two beasts, two dogs, two wolves, two foxes, cut their way through the plantation and encounter
one another. One of each two is male, the other female. They couple. They couple in consequence
of an animal instinct, which forces them to continue the race, their race, the one from which
they have sprung, the hairy coat, the form, movements and habitudes. The whole of the animal
creation do the same without knowing why.

We human beings, also.

It is for this I have married; I have obeyed that insane passion which throws us in the direction
of the female.

       *       *       *       *       *

She is my wife. In accordance with my ideal desires, she comes very nearly to realize my unrealizable
dream. But in separating from her, even for a second, after I have held her in my arms, she
becomes no more than the being whom nature has made use of, to disappoint all my hopes.

Has she disappointed them? No. And why have I grown weary of her, become loath even to touch
her; she cannot graze even the palm of my hand, or the tip of my lips, but my heart throbs
with unutterable disgust, not perhaps disgust of her, but a disgust more potent, more widespread,
more loathsome; the disgust, in a word, of carnal love so vile in itself that it has become
for all refined beings, a shameful thing, which is necessary to conceal, which one never speaks
of save in a whisper, nor without blushing.

       *       *       *       *       *

I can no longer bear the idea of my wife coming near me, calling me by name, with a smile;
I cannot look at her, nor touch even her arm, I cannot do it any more. At one time I thought
to be kissed by her, would be to transport me to St. Paul's seventh heaven. One day, she was
suffering from one of those transient fevers, and I smelled in her breath, a subtle, slight
almost imperceptible puff of human putridity; I was completely overthrown.

Oh! the flesh, with its seductive and eager smell, a putrefaction which walks, which thinks,
which speaks, which looks, which laughs, in which nourishment ferments and rots, which, nevertheless,
is rose-colored, pretty, tempting, deceitful as the soul itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why flowers alone, which smell so sweet, those large flowers, glittering or pale, whose tones
and shades make my heart tremble and trouble my eyes. They are so beautiful, their structure
is so finished, so varied and sensual, semi-opened like human organs, more tempting than mouths,
and streaked with turned up lips, teeth, flesh, seed of life powders, which, in each, gives
forth a distinct perfume.

They reproduce themselves, they alone, in the world, without polluting their inviolable race,
shedding around them the divine influence of their love, the odoriferous incense of their caresses,
the essence of their incomparable body, of their body adorned with every grace, with every
elegances of every shape and form; who have likewise the coquetry of every hue of color, and
the inebriating seduction of every variety of perfume.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRAGMENTS WHICH WERE SELECTED SIX MONTHS LATER.

I love flowers, not as flowers, but as material and delicious beings; I pass my days and my
nights in beds of flowers, where they have been concealed from the public view like the women
of a harem.

Who knows, except myself, the sweetness, the infatuation, the quivering, carnal, ideal, superhuman
ecstacy of these tendernesses; and those kisses upon the bare flesh of a rose, upon the blushing
flesh, upon the white skin, so miraculously different, delicate, rare, subtle, unctuous, of
these adorable flowers!

I have flower-beds that no one has seen except myself, and which I tend myself.

I enter there as one would glide into a place of secret pleasure. In the lofty glass gallery,
I pass first through a collection of enclosed carollas, half open or in full bloom, which incline
towards the ground, or towards the roof. This is the first kiss they have given me.

The flowers just mentioned, these flowers which adorn the vestibule of my mysterious passions,
are my servants and not my favorites.

They salute me by the change of their color and by their first inhalations. They are darlings,
coquettes, arranged in eight rows to the right, eight rows, the left, and so laid out that
they look like two gardens springing up from under my feet.

My heart palpitates, my eyes flash at the sight of them; my blood rushes through my veins,
my soul is elated, and my hands tremble from desire as soon as I touch them. I pass on. There
are three closed doors at the bottom of that gallery. I can make my choice of them. I have
three harems.

But I enter most often the habitation of the orchids, my little wheedlers, by preference. Their
chamber is low, suffocating. The humid and hot air make the skin moist, takes away the breath
and causes the fingers to quiver. They come, these strange girls, from a country marshy, burning
and unhealthy. They draw you towards them as do the sirens, are as deadly as poison, admirably
fantastic, enervating, dreadful. The butterflies here would also seem to have enormous wings,
tiny feet, and eyes! Yes! they have also eyes! They look at me, they see me, prodigious, incomparable
beings, fairies, daughters of the sacred earth, of the impalpable air, and of hot sun rays,
that mother bountiful of the universe. Yes, they have wings, they have eyes, and nuances that
no painter could imitate, every charm, every grace, every form that one could dream of. These
wombs are transverse, odoriferous and transparent, ever open for love and more tempting than
all the flesh of women. The unimaginable designs of their little bodies inebriates the soul,
and transports it to a paradise of images and of voluptuous ideals. They tremble upon their
stems as though they would fly. When they do fly do they come to me? No, it is my heart that
hovers o'er them, like a mystic male, tortured by love.

No wing of any animal can keep pace with them. We are alone, they and I, in the lighted prison
which I have constructed for them. I regard them, I contemplate them, I admire them, I adore
them, the one after the other.

How healthy, strong and rosy, a rosiness that moistens the lips of desire! How I love them!
The border is frizzled, paler than their throat, where the carolla hides itself away; a mysterious
mouth, seductive sugar under the tongue, exhibiting and unveiling the delicate, admirable and
sacred organs of these divine little creatures which smell so exquisitely and do not speak.

I sometimes have a passion for some of them that lasts as long as their existence, which only
embraces a few days and nights. I then have them taken away from the common gallery and enclosed
in a pretty glass cabin, in which there murmurs a jet of water over against a tropical gazon,
which has been brought from one of the Pacific Islands. And I remain close to it, ardent, feverish
and tormented, knowing that its death is near, and watch it fading away, while that in thought,
I possess it, aspire to its love, drink it in, and then pluck its short life with an inexpressible
caress.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he had finished the reading of these fragments, the advocate continued:

"Decency, gentlemen of the jury, hinders me from communicating to you the extraordinary avowals
of this shameless, idealistic fool. The fragments that I have just submitted to you will be
sufficient, in my opinion, to enable you to appreciate this instance of mental malady, less
rare in our epoch of hysterical insanity and of corrupt decadence than most of us believe.

"I think, then, that my client is more entitled than any women whatever to claim a divorce,
in the exceptional circumstances in which the disordered senses of her husband has placed her."

WHO KNOWS? Yes, probably!

What was it?

They advised me to travel, and I followed their council.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ah! no, no, ah! never, never, ah! no. I shall never return there!

I took the letter to the commissary of police.

I shall not risk it! I shall not risk it! No Papa!" Some fishes were sporting briskly in the
clear stream and occasionally made a little bound and caught the flies flying on the surface.
He stopped crying in order to watch them, for their housewifery interested him vastly.

A little green frog leapt from under his feet. He endeavored to catch it. It escaped him.

Then the workman became serious.

"Phillip," answered the man.

Simon was silent a moment so that he might get the name well into his head; then he stretched
out his arms quite consoled as he said:

"Well, then, Phillip, you are my Papa."

The workman, lifting him from the ground kissed him hastily on both cheeks, and then made off
very quickly with great strides.

Yells of delight burst out from all sides.

"Phillip who? ... Phillip what? What on earth is Phillip? Where did you pick up your Phillip?"
The school-master came to his rescue and he returned home to his mother.

Simon entered without being noticed and went quietly to pluck his friend by the sleeve. He
turned himself round. All at once the work came to a standstill and all the men looked on very
attentive.

PAUL'S MISTRESS

The Restaurant Grillon, a small commonwealth of boatmen, was slowly emptying. In front of the
door all was a tumult of cries and calls, while the jolly dogs in white flannels gesticulated
with oars on their shoulders.

The ladies in bright spring toilets stepped aboard the skiffs with care, and seating themselves
astern, arranged their dresses, while the landlord of the establishment, a mighty individual
with a red beard, of renowned strength, offered his hand to the pretty dears, with great self-possession,
keeping the frail craft steady.

The rowers, bare-armed, with bulging chests, took their places in their turn, posing for their
gallery, as they did so, a gallery consisting of middle class people dressed in their Sunday
clothes, of workmen and soldiers leaning upon their elbows on the parapet of the bridge, all
taking a great interest in the sight.

The boats one by one cast off from the landing stage. The oarsmen bent themselves forward and
then threw themselves backwards with an even swing, and under the impetus of the long curved
oars, the swift skiffs glided along the river, got far away, grew smaller and finally disappeared
under the other bridge, that of the railway, as they descended the stream towards La Grenouillère.
One couple only remained behind. The young man, still almost beardless, slender, and of pale
countenance, held his mistress, a thin little brunette, with the gait of a grasshopper, by
the waist; and occasionally they gazed into each others eyes. The landlord shouted:

"Come, Mr. Paul, make haste," and they drew near.

Of all the guests of the house, Mr. Paul was the most liked and most respected. He paid well
and punctually, while the others hung back for a long time, if indeed they did not vanish insolvent.
Besides which he acted as a sort of walking advertisement for the establishment, inasmuch as
his father was a senator. And when a stranger would inquire: "Who on earth is that little chap
who thinks so much of himself because of his girl?" some habituè would reply, half-aloud, with
a mysterious and important air: "Don't you know? That is Paul Baron, a senator's son."

And invariably the other could not restrain himself from exclaiming:

"Poor devil! He is not half mashed."

Mother Grillon, a worthy and good business woman, described the young man and his companion
as "her two turtle-doves," and appeared quite moved by this passion, profitable for her house.

The couple advanced at a slow pace; the skiff, Madeleine, was ready, when at the moment of
embarking therein they kissed each other, which caused the public collected on the bridge to
laugh, and Mr. Paul taking the oars, they left also for La Grenonillère.

When they arrived it was just upon three o'clock and the large floating café overflowed with
people.

The immense raft, sheltered by a tarpaulin roof, is attached to the charming island of Croissy
by two narrow foot bridges, one of which leads into the center of this aquatic establishment,
while the other unites its end with a tiny islet planted with a tree and surnamed "The Flower
Pot," and thence leads to land near the bath office.

Mr. Paul made fast his boat alongside the establishment, climbed over the railing of the café
and then grasping his mistress's hand assisted her out of the boat and they both seated themselves
at the end of a table opposite each other.

On the opposite side of the river along the market road, a long string of vehicles was drawn
up. Fiacres alternated with the fine carriages of the swells; the first, clumsy, with enormous
bodies crushing the springs, drawn by a broken down hack with hanging head and broken knees;
the second, slightly built on light wheels, with horses slender and straight, their heads well
up, their bits snowy with foam, while the coachman, solemn in his livery, his head erect in
his high collar, waited bolt upright, his whip resting on his knee.

The bank was covered with people who came off in families, or in gangs, or two by two, or alone.
They plucked blades of grass, went down to the water, remounted the path, and all having attained
the same spot, stood still awaiting the ferryman. The clumsy punt plied incessantly from bank
to bank, discharging its passengers on to the island. The arm of the river (named the Dead
Arm) upon which this refreshment wharf lay, appeared asleep, so feeble was the current. Fleets
of yawls, of skiffs, of canoes, of podoscaphs (a light boat propelled by wheels set in motion
by a treadle), of gigs, of craft of all forms and of all kinds, crept about upon the motionless
stream, crossing each other, intermingling, running foul of one another, stopping abruptly
under a jerk of the arms to shoot off afresh under a sudden strain of the muscles gliding swiftly
along like great yellow or red fishes.

Others arrived incessantly; some from Chaton up the stream; others from Bougival down it; laughter
crossed the water from one boat to another, calls, admonitions or imprecations. The boatmen
exposed the bronzed and knotted flesh of their biceps to the heat of the day; and similar to
strange flowers, which floated, the silk parasols, red, green, blue, or yellow, of the ladies
seated near the helm, bloomed in the sterns of the boats.

A July sun flamed high in the heavens; the atmosphere seemed full of burning merriment: not
a breath of air stirred the leaves of the willows or poplars.

Down there the inevitable Mont-Valerien erected its fortified ramparts, tier above tier, in
the intense light; while on the right the divine slopes of Louveniennes following the bend
of the river disposed themselves in a semi-circle, displaying in their order across the rich
and shady lawns, of large gardens, the white walls of country seats.

Upon the outskirts of La Grenonillère a crowd of promenaders moved about beneath the giant
trees which make this corner of the island the most delightful park in the world.

Women and girls with breasts developed beyond all measurement, with exaggerated bustles, their
complexions plastered with rouge, their eyes daubed with charcoal, their lips blood-red, laced
up, rigged out in outrageous dresses--trailed the crying bad taste of their toilets over the
fresh green sward; while beside them young men postured in their fashion-plate accouterments
with light gloves, varnished boots, canes, the size of a thread, and single eye-glasses punctuating
the insipidity of their smiles.

The island is narrow opposite La Grenonillère, and on its other side, where also a ferry-boat
plies, bringing people unceasingly across from Croissy, the rapid branch of the river, full
of whirlpools and eddies and foam, rushes along with the strength of a torrent.

A detachment of pontoon-soldiers, in the uniform of artillerymen, is encamped upon this bank,
and the soldiers seated in a row on a long beam watched the water flowing.

In the floating establishment there was a boisterous and uproarious crowd. The wooden tables
upon which the spilt refreshments made little sticky streams, were covered with half empty
glasses and surrounded by half tipsy individuals. All this crowd shouted, sang and brawled.
The men, their hats at the backs of their heads, their faces red, with the brilliant eyes of
drunkards, moved about vociferously in need of a row natural to brutes. The women, seeking
their prey for the night, caused themselves to be treated, in the meantime; and in the free
space between the tables, the ordinary local public predominated a whole regiment of boatmen,
Rowkickersup, with their companions in short flannel petticoats.

One of them carried on at the piano and appeared to play with his feet as well as his hands;
four couples bounded through a quadrille, and some young men watched them, polished and correct,
who would have looked proper, if in spite of all, vice itself had appeared.

For there, one tastes in full all the pomp and vanity of the world, all its well bred debauchery,
all the seamy side of Parisian society; a mixture of counter-jumpers, of strolling players,
of the lowest journalists, of gentlemen in tutelage, of rotten stock-jobbers, of ill-famed
debauchées, of used-up old, fast men; a doubtful crowd of suspicious characters, half-known,
half gone under, half-recognized, half-cut, pickpockets, rogues, procurers of women, sharpers
with dignified manners, and a bragging air, which seems to say: "I shall rend the first who
treats me as a scoundrel."

This place reeks of folly, stinks of the scum and the gallantry of the shops. Male and female
there give themselves airs. There dwells an odor of love, and there one fights for a yes, or
for a no, in order to sustain a worm-eaten reputation, which a stroke of the sword or a pistol
bullet would destroy further.

Some of the neighboring inhabitants looked in out of curiosity every Sunday; some young men,
very young, appeared there every year to learn how to live, some promenaders lounging about
showed themselves there; some greenhorns wandered thither. It is with good reason named La
Grenonillère. At the side of the covered wharf where they drank, and quite close to the Flower
Pot, people bathed. Those among the women who possessed the requisite roundness of form came
there to display their wares naked and to make clients. The rest, scornful, although well filled
out with wadding, shored up with springs, corrected here and altered there, watched their sisters
dabbling with disdain.

The swimmers crowded on to a little platform to dive thence head foremost. They are either
straight like vine poles, or round like pumpkins, gnarled like olive branches, they are bowed
over in front, or thrown backwards by the size of their stomachs and are invariably ugly, they
leap into the water which splashes almost over the drinkers in the café.

Notwithstanding the great trees which overhang the floating-house, and notwithstanding the
vicinity of the water a suffocating heat fills the place. The fumes of the spilt liquors mix
with the effluvium of the bodies and with that of the strong perfumes with which the skin of
the traders in love is saturated and which evaporate in this furnace. But beneath all these
diverse scents a slight aroma of vice-powder lingered, which now disappeared and then reappeared,
which one was perpetually encountering as though some concealed hand had shaken an invisible
powder-puff in the air. The show was upon the river whither the perpetual coming and going
of the boats attracts the eyes. The boatwomen sprawled upon their seats opposite their strong-wristed
males, and contemplated with contempt the dinner hunters prowling about the island.

Sometimes when a train of boats, just started, passed at full speed, the friends who stayed
ashore gave shouts, and all the people suddenly seized with madness set to work yelling.

At the bend of the river towards Chaton fresh boats showed themselves unceasingly. They came
nearer and grew larger, and if only faces were recognized, the vociferations broke out anew.

A canoe covered with an awning and manned by four women came slowly down the current. She who
rowed was little, thin, faded, in a cabin boy's costume, her hair drawn up under an oil-skin
cap. Opposite her, a lusty blonde, dressed as a man, with a white flannel jacket, lay upon
her back at the bottom of the boat, her legs in the air, on the seat at each side of the rower,
and she smoked a cigarette, while at each stroke of the oars, her chest and stomach quivered,
shaken by the shock. Quite at the back, under the awning, two handsome girls, tall and slender,
one dark and the other fair, held each other by the waist as they unceasingly watched their
companions.

A cry arose from La Grenonillère, "There is Lesbos," and there became all at once a furious
clamor; a terrifying scramble took place; the glasses were knocked down; people clambered on
to the tables; all in a frenzy of noise bawled: "Lesbos! Lesbos! Lesbos!" The shout rolled
along, became indistinct, was no longer more than a kind of tremendous howl, and then suddenly
it seemed to start anew, to rise into space, to cover the plain, to fill the foliage of the
great trees, to extend itself to the distant slopes, to go even to the sun.

The rower, in the face of this ovation, had quietly stopped. The handsome blonde extended upon
the bottom of the boat, turned her head with a careless air, as she raised herself upon her
elbows; and the two girls at the back commenced laughing as they saluted the crowd.

Then the hullaballoo was doubled, making the floating establishment tremble. The men took off
their hats, the women waved their handkerchiefs, and all voices, shrill or deep, together cried:

"Lesbos."

One would have said that these people, this collection of the corrupt, saluted a chief like
the squadrons which fire guns when an admiral passes along the line.

The numerous fleet of boats also acclaimed the women's boat, which awoke from its sleepy motion
to land rather farther off.

Mr. Paul, contrary to the others, had drawn a key from his pocket and whistled with all his
might. His nervous mistress grew paler, caught him by the arm to cause him to be quiet, and
upon this occasion she looked at him with fury in her eyes. But he appeared exasperated, as
though borne away by jealousy of some man by deep anger, instinctive and ungovernable. He stammered,
his lips quivering with indignation:

"It is shameful! They ought to be drowned like dogs with a stone about the neck."

But Madeleine instantly flew into a rage; her small and shrill voice became hissing, and she
spoke volubly, as though pleading her own cause:

"And what has it to do with you--you indeed? Are they not at liberty to do what they wish since
they owe nobody anything. A truce with your airs and mind your own business...."

But he cut her speech short:

"It is the police whom it concerns, and I will have them marched off to St. Lazare; so I will."

She gave a start:

"You?"

"Yes, I! And in the meantime I forbid you to speak to them, you understand, I forbid you to do so."

Then she shrugged her shoulders and grew calm in a moment:

"My friend, I shall do as I please; if you are not satisfied, be off, and instantly. I am not
your wife, am I? Very well then, hold your tongue."

He made no reply and they stood face to face, their mouths tightly closed and their breathing
rapid.

At the other end of the great café of wood the four women made their entry. The two in men's
costumes marched in front: the one thin like an oldish tomboy, with yellow lines on her temples;
the other filled out her white flannel garments with her fat, swelling out her big trousers
with her buttocks; she swayed about like a fat goose with enormous legs and yielding knees.
Their two friends followed them, and the crowd of boatmen thronged about to shake their hands.

They had all four hired a small cottage close to the water's edge, and they lived there as
two households would have lived.

Their vice was public, recognized, patent. People talked of it as a natural thing, which almost
excited their sympathy, and whispered in very low tones strange stories of dramas begotten
of furious feminine jealousies, of the stealthy visit of well-known women and of actresses
to the little house close to the water's edge.

A neighbor, horrified by these scandalous rumors, apprised the police, and the inspector, accompanied
by a man, had come to make inquiry. The mission was a delicate one; it was impossible, in short,
to reproach these women, who did not abandon themselves to prostitution with anything. The
inspector, very much puzzled, indeed, ignorant of the nature of the offenses suspected, had
asked questions at random, and made a lofty report conclusive of their innocence.

They laughed about it all the way to St. Germain. They walked about La Grenonillère establishment
with stately steps like queens; and seemed to glory in their fame, rejoicing in the gaze that
was fixed on them, so superior to this crowd, to this mob, to these plebeians.

Madeleine and her lover watched them approach and in the girl's eyes a fire lightened.

When the two first had reached the end of the table, Madeleine cried:

"Pauline!"

The large woman turned herself and stopped, continuing all the time to hold the arm of her
feminine cabin boy:

"Good gracious, Madeleine.... Do come and talk to me, my dear."

Paul squeezed his fingers upon his mistress's wrist; but she said to him, with such an air:

"You know, my fine fellow, you can be off;" he said nothing and remained alone.

Then they chatted in low voices, standing all three of them. Many pleasant jests passed their
lips, they spoke quickly; and Pauline looked now and then at Paul, by stealth, with a shrewd
and malicious smile.

At last, putting up with it no longer, he suddenly raised himself and in a single bound was
at their side, trembling in every limb. He seized Madeleine by the shoulders:

"Come. I wish it," said he. "I have forbidden you to speak to these scoundrels."

Whereupon Pauline raised her voice and set to work blackguarding him with her Billingsgate
vocabulary. All the bystanders laughed; they drew near him; they raised themselves on tiptoe
in order the better to see him. He remained dumbfounded under this downpour of filthy abuse.
It appeared to him that these words, which came from that mouth and fell upon him, defiled
him like dirt, and, in presence of the row which was beginning, he fell back, retraced his
steps, and rested his elbows on the railing towards the river, turning his back upon the three
victorious women.

There he stayed watching the water, and sometimes with rapid gesture as though he plucked it
out, he removed with his sinewy fingers the tear which had formed in his eye.

The fact was that he was hopelessly in love, without knowing why, notwithstanding his refined
instincts, in spite of his reason, in spite, indeed, of his will. He had fallen into this love
as one falls into a sloughy hole. Of a tender and delicate disposition, he had dreamed of liaisons,
exquisite, ideal and impassioned, and there that little bit of a woman, stupid like all girls,
with an exasperating stupidity, not even pretty, thin and a spitfire, had taken him prisoner,
possessing him from head to foot, body and soul. He underwent this feminine bewitchery, mysterious
and all powerful, this unknown power, this prodigious domination, arising no one knows whence,
from the demon of the flesh, which casts the most sensible man at the feet of some girl or
other without there being anything in her to explain her fatal and sovereign power.

And there at his back he felt that some infamous thing was brewing. Shouts of laughter cut
him to the heart. What should he do? He knew well, but he could not do it.

He steadily watched an angler upon the bank opposite him, and his motionless line.

Suddenly, the worthy man jerked a little silver fish, which wriggled at the end of his line,
out of the river. Then he endeavored to extract his hook, hoisted and turned it, but in vain.
At last, losing patience, he commenced to pull it out, and all the bleeding gullet of the beast,
with a portion of its intestines, came out. Paul shuddered, rent himself to his heart-strings.
It seemed to him that the hook was his love and that if he should pluck it out, all that he
had in his breast would come out in the same way at the end of a curved iron fixed in the depths
of his being, of which Madeleine held the line.

A hand was placed upon his shoulder; he started and turned; his mistress was at his side. They
did not speak to each other; and she rested, like him, with her elbows upon the railing, her
eyes fixed upon the river.

He sought for what he ought to say to her and could find nothing. He did not even arrive at
disentangling his own emotions; all that he was sensible of was joy at feeling her there close
to him, come back again, and a shameful cowardice, a craving to pardon everything, to permit
everything, provided she never left him.

At last, at the end of some minutes, he asked her in a very gentle voice:

"Do you wish that we should leave? It will be nicer in the boat."

She answered: "Yes, my puss."

And he assisted her into the skiff, pressing her hands, all softened, with some tears still
in his eyes. Then she looked at him with a smile and they kissed each other anew.

They re-ascended the river very slowly, skirting the bank planted with willows, covered with
grass, bathed and still in the afternoon warmth. When they had returned to the Restaurant Grillon,
it was barely six o'clock. Then leaving their boat they set off on foot on the island towards
Bezons, across the fields and along the high poplars which bordered the river. The long grass
ready to be mowed was full of flowers. The sun, which was sinking, showed himself from beneath
a sheet of red light, and in the tempered heat of the closing day the floating exhalations
from the grass, mingled with the damp scents from the river, filled the air with a soft languor,
with a happy light, as though with a vapor of well-being.

A soft weakness overtakes the heart, and a species of communion with this splendid calm of
evening, with this vague and mysterious chilliness of outspread life, with the keen and melancholy
poetry which seems to arise from flowers and things, develops itself revealed at this sweet
and pensive time to the senses.

He felt all that; but she did not understand anything of it, for her part. They walked side
by side; and, suddenly tired of being silent, she sang. She sang with her shrill and false
voice, something which pervaded the streets, an air catching the memory, which rudely destroyed
the profound and serene harmony of the evening.

Then he looked at her and he felt an unsurpassable abyss between them. She beat the grass with
her parasol, her head slightly inclined, contemplating her feet and singing, spinning out the
notes, attempting trills, and venturing on shakes. Her smooth little brow, of which he was
so fond, was at that time absolutely empty! empty! There was nothing therein but this music
of a bird-organ; and the ideas which formed there by chance were like this music. She did not
understand anything of him; they were now separated as if they did not live together. Did then
his kisses never go any further than her lips?

Then she raised her eyes to him and laughed again. He was moved to the quick and, extending
his arms in a paroxysm of love, he embraced her passionately.

As he was rumpling her dress she ended by disengaging herself, murmuring by way of compensation
as she did so:

"Go; I love you well, my puss."

But he seized her by the waist and seized by madness, carried her rapidly away. He kissed her
on the cheek, on the temple, on the neck, all the while dancing with joy. They threw themselves
down panting at the edge of a thicket, lit up by the rays of the setting sun, and before they
had recovered breath they became friends again without her understanding his transport.

They returned, holding each other by the hand, when suddenly, across the trees, they perceived
on the river, the canoe manned by the four women. The large Pauline also saw them, for she
drew herself up and blew kisses to Madeleine. And then she cried:

"Until to-night!"

Madeleine replied:

"Until to-night!"

Paul believed he suddenly felt his heart enveloped in ice.

They re-entered the house for dinner.

They installed themselves in one of the arbors, close to the water, and set about eating in
silence. When night arrived, they brought a candle inclosed in a glass globe, which lit them
up with a feeble and glimmering light; and they heard every moment the bursting out of the
shouts of the boatmen in the great saloon on the first floor.

Towards dessert, Paul, taking Madeleine's hand, tenderly said to her:

"I feel very tired, my darling; unless you have any objection, we will go to bed early."

She, however, understood the ruse, and shot an enigmatical glance at him, that glance of treachery
which so readily appears at the bottom of a woman's eyes. Then having reflected she answered:

"You can go to bed if you wish, but I have promised to go to the ball at La Grenonillère."

He smiled in a piteous manner, one of those smiles with which one veils the most horrible suffering,
but he replied in a coaxing but agonized tone:

"If you were very kind, we should remain here, both of us."

She indicated no with her head, without opening her mouth.

He insisted:

"I beg of you, my Bichette."

Then she roughly broke out:

"You know what I said to you. If you are not satisfied the door is open. No one wishes to keep
you. As for myself, I have promised; I shall go."

He placed his two elbows upon the table, covered his face with his hands and remained there
pondering sorrowfully.

The boat people came down again, bawling as usual. They set off in their vessels for the ball
at La Grenonillère.

Madeleine said to Paul:

"If you are not coming, say so, and I will ask one of these gentlemen to take me."

Paul rose:

"Let us go!" murmured he.

And they left.

The night was black, full of stars, overpowered by a burning air, by oppressive breaths of
wind, burdened with heat and emanations, with living germs, which, mixed with the breeze, destroyed
its freshness. It imparted to the face a heated caress, made one breathe more quickly, gasp
a little, so thick and heavy did it seem. The boats started on their way bearing venetian lanterns
at the prow. It was not possible to distinguish the craft, but only these little colored lights,
swift and dancing up and down like glow-worms in a fit; and voices sounded from all sides in
the shade. The young people's skiff glided gently along. Now and then, when a fast boat passed
near them, they could, for a moment, see the white back of the rower, lit up by his lantern.

When they turned the elbow of the river, La Grenonillère appeared to them in the distance.
The establishment, en fête, was decorated with sconces, with colored garlands draped with clusters
of lights. On the Seine some great barges moved about slowly, representing domes, pyramids
and elaborate erections in fires of all colors. Illuminated festoons hung right down to the
water, and sometimes a red or blue lantern, at the end of an immense invisible fishing-rod,
seemed like a great swinging star.

All this illumination spread a light around the café, lit up the great trees on the bank, from
top to bottom, the trunks of which stood out in pale gray and the leaves in a milky green upon
the deep black of the fields and the heavens. The orchestra, composed of five suburban artists,
flung far its public-house ball-music, poor and jerky, which caused Madeleine to sing anew.

She desired to enter at once. Paul desired first to take a turn on the island, but he was obliged
to give way. The attendance was more select. The boatmen, always alone, remained with some
thinly scattered citizens, and some young men flanked by girls. The director and organizer
of this can-can majestic, in a jaded black suit, walked about in every direction, his head
laid waste by his old trade of purveyor of public amusements, at a cheap rate.

The large Pauline and her companions were not there; and Paul breathed again.

They danced; couples opposite each other, capered in the most distracted manner, throwing their
legs in the air, until they were upon a level with the noses of their partners.

The women, whose thighs were disjointed, skipped amid such a flying upwards of their petticoats
that the lower portions of their frames were displayed. They kicked their feet up above their
heads with astounding facility, balanced their bodies, wagged their backs and shook their sides,
shedding around them a powerful scent of sweating womanhood.

The men were squatted like toads, some making obscene signs; some turned and twisted themselves,
grimacing and hideous; some turned like a wheel on their hands, or, perhaps, trying to make
themselves funny, sketched the manners of the day with exaggerated gracefulness.

A fat servant-maid and two waiters served refreshments.

This café-boat being only covered with a roof and having no wall whatever, to shut it in, the
hare-brained dance was displayed in the face of the peaceful night and of the firmament powdered
with stars.

Suddenly, Mount Valerien, yonder opposite, appears illumined, as if a conflagration had been
set ablaze behind it. The radiance spreads itself and deepens upon the sky, describing a large
luminous circle of wan and white light. Then something or other red appeared, grew greater,
shining with a burning red, like that of hot metal upon the anvil. That gradually developed
into a round body which seemed to arise from the earth; and the moon, freeing herself from
the horizon, rose slowly into space. In proportion as she ascended, the purple tint faded and
became yellow, a shining bright yellow, and the satellite appeared to grow smaller in proportion
as her distance increased.

Paul watched her for sometime, lost in contemplation, forgetting his mistress, and when he
returned to himself the latter had vanished.

He sought for her, but could not find her. He threw his anxious eye over table after table,
going to and fro unceasingly, inquiring after her from this one and that one. No one had seen
her. He was thus tormented with disquietude, when one of the waiters said to him:

"You are looking for Madame Madeleine, are you not? She has left but a few moments ago, in
company with Madame Pauline." And at the same instant, Paul perceived the cabin-boy and the
two pretty girls standing at the other end of the café, all three holding each others' waists
and lying in wait for him, whispering to one another. He understood, and, like a madman, dashed
off into the island.

He first ran towards Chatou, but having reached the plain, retraced his steps. Then he began
to search the dense coppices, occasionally roamed about distractedly, halting to listen.

The toads all round about him poured out their metallic and short notes.

Towards Bougival, some unknown bird warbled some song which reached him from the distance.

Over the large lawns the moon shed a soft light, resembling powdered wool; it penetrated the
foliage and shone upon the silvered bark of the poplars, and riddled with its brilliant rays
the waving tops of the great trees. The entrancing poetry of this summer night had, in spite
of himself, entered into Paul, athwart his infatuated anguish, and stirred his heart with a
ferocious irony, increasing even to madness, his craving for an ideal tenderness, for passionate
outpourings of the bosom of an adored and faithful woman. He was compelled to stop, choked
by hurried and rending sobs.

The crisis over, he started anew.

Suddenly, he received what resembled the stab of a poignard. There, behind that bush, some
people were kissing. He ran thither; and found an amorous couple whose faces were entwined,
united in an endless kiss.

He dared not call, knowing well that she would not respond, and he had also a frightful dread
of discovering them all at once.

The flourishes of the quadrilles, with the ear-splitting solos of the cornet, the false shriek
of the flute, the shrill squeaking of the violin, irritated his feelings, and exasperated his
sufferings. Wild and limping music was floating under the trees, now feeble, now stronger,
wafted hither and thither by the breeze.

Suddenly, he said to himself, that possibly she had returned. Yes, she had returned! Why not?
He had stupidly lost his head, without cause, carried away by his fears, by the inordinate
suspicions which had for some time overwhelmed him.

Seized by one of these singular calms which will sometimes occur in cases of the greatest despair,
he returned towards the ball-room.

With a single glance of the eye, he took in the whole room. He made the round of the tables,
and abruptly again found himself face to face with the three women. He must have had a doleful
and queer expression of countenance, for all three together burst into merriment.

He made off, returned into the island, threw himself across the coppice panting. He listened
again, listened a long time, for his ears were singing. At last, however, he believed he heard
a little farther off a little, sharp laugh, which he recognized at once; and he advanced very
quietly, on his knees, removing the branches from his path, his heart beating so rapidly, that
he could no longer breathe.

Two voices murmured some words, the meaning of which he did not understand, and then they were
silent.

Next, he was possessed by a frightful longing to fly, to save himself, for ever, from this
furious passion which threatened his existence. He was about to return to Chatou and take the
train, resolved never to come back again, never again to see her. But her likeness suddenly
rushed in upon him, and he mentally pictured that moment in the morning when she would wake
in their warm bed, and would press herself coaxingly against him, throwing her arms around
his neck, her hair disheveled, and a little entangled on the forehead, her eyes still shut
and her lips apart ready to receive the first kiss. The sudden recollection of this morning
caress filled him with frantic recollection and the maddest desire.

The couple began to speak again; and he approached, doubled in two. Then a faint cry rose from
under the branches quite close to him. He advanced again, always as though in spite of himself,
invisibly attracted, without being conscious of anything ... and he saw them.

And he stood there astounded and distracted, as though he had there suddenly discovered a corpse,
dead and mutilated. Then, in an involuntary flash of thought, he remembered the little fish
whose entrails he had felt being torn out.... But Madeleine murmured to her companion, in the
same tone in which she had often called him by name, and he was seized by such a fit of anguish
that he fled with all his might.

He struck against two trees, fell over a root, set off again and suddenly found himself near
the river, opposite its rapid branch, which was lit up by the moon. The torrent-like current
made great eddies where the light played upon it. The high bank dominated the river like a
cliff, leaving a wide obscure zone at its foot where the eddies made themselves heard in the
darkness.

On the other bank, the country seats of Croissy ranged themselves and could be plainly seen.

Paul saw all this as though in a dream, he thought of nothing, understood nothing, and all
things, even his very existence, appeared vague, far-off, forgotten, done with.

The river was there. Did he know what he was doing? Did he wish to die? He was mad. He turned
himself, however, towards the island, towards her, and in the still air of the night, in which
the faint and persistent burden of the public house band was borne up and down, he uttered,
in a voice frantic with despair, bitter beyond measure, and superhuman, a frightful cry:

"Madeleine."

His heartrending call shot across the great silence of the sky, and sped all around the horizon.

Then, with a tremendous leap, with the bound of a wild animal, he jumped into the river. The
water rushed on, closed over him, and from the place where he had disappeared a series of great
circles started, enlarging their brilliant undulations, until they finally reached the other
bank. The two women had heard the noise of the plunge. Madeleine drew herself up and exclaimed:

"It is Paul," a suspicion having arisen in her soul, "he has drowned himself;" and she rushed
towards the bank, where Pauline rejoined her.

A clumsy punt, propelled by two men, turned and returned on the spot. One of the men rowed,
the other plunged into the water a great pole and appeared to be looking for something. Pauline
cried:

"What are you doing? What is the matter?"

An unknown voice answered:

"It is a man who has just drowned himself."

The two ghastly women, squeezing each other tightly, followed the maneuvers of the boat. The
music of La Grenonillère continued to sound in the distance, and appeared with its cadences
to accompany the movements of the somber fisherman; and the river which now concealed a corpse,
whirled round and round, illuminated. The search was prolonged. The horrible suspense made
Madeleine shiver all over. At last, after at least half an hour, one of the men announced:

"I have got it."

And he pulled up his long pole very gently, very gently. Then something large appeared upon
the surface. The other mariner left his oars, and they both uniting their strength and hauling
upon the inert weight, caused it to tumble over into their boat.

Then they made for the land, seeking a place well lighted and low. At the moment when they
landed, the women also arrived. The moment she saw him, Madeleine fell back with horror. In
the moonlight he already appeared green, with his mouth, his eyes, his nose, his clothes full
of slime. His fingers closed and stiff, were hideous. A kind of black and liquid plaster covered
his whole body. The face appeared swollen, and from his hair, glued up by the ooze, there ran
a stream of dirty water.

"Do you know him?" asked one.

The other, the Croissy ferryman, hesitated:

"Yes, it certainly seems to me that I have seen that head; but you know when like that one
cannot recognize anyone easily." And then, suddenly:

"Why, it's Mr. Paul."

"Who is Mr. Paul?" inquired his comrade.

The first answered:

"Why, Mr. Paul Baron, the son of the senator, the little chap who was so amorous."

The other added, philosophically:

"Well, his fun is ended now; it is a pity, all the same, when one is so rich!"

Madeleine sobbed and fell to the ground. Pauline approached the body and asked:

"Is he indeed quite dead?"

"Quite?"

The men shrugged their shoulders.

"Oh! after that length of time for certain."

Then one of them asked:

"Was it at the Grillon that he lodged?"

"Yes," answered the other; "we had better take him back there, there will be something to be
made of it."

They embarked again in their boat and set out, moving off slowly on account of the rapid current;
and yet, a long time after they were out of sight, from the place where the women remained,
the regular splash of the oars in the water could be heard.

Then Pauline took the poor weeping Madeleine in her arms, petted her, embraced her for a long
while, consoled her.

"What would you have; it is not your fault, is it? It is impossible to prevent men committing
folly. He wished it, so much the worse for him, after all!"

And then lifting her up:

"Come, my dear, come and sleep at the house; it is impossible for you to go back to the Grillon
to-night."

And she embraced her again.

"Come, we will cure you," said she.

Madeleine arose, and weeping all the while, but with fainter sobs, her head upon Pauline's
shoulder, as though it had found a refuge in a closer and more certain affection, more familiar
and more confiding, set off with very slow steps.

THE RABBIT

Old Lecacheur appeared at the door of his house at his usual hour, between five and a quarter
past five in the morning, to look after his men who were going to work. The sun was darting
his oblique rays through the beech-trees by the side of the ditch and the apple trees outside,
and was making the cocks crow on the dung-hill, and the pigeons coo on the roof.

"How sad! Who can have done it?"

In about half an hour the two gendarmes arrived.

THE TWENTY-FIVE FRANCS OF THE MOTHER-SUPERIOR

He certainly looked very droll, did Daddy Pavilly, with his great, spider legs and his little
body, his long arms and his pointed head, surrounded by a flame of red hair on the top of the
crown.

He was a clown, a peasant clown by nature, born to play tricks, to act parts, simple parts,
as he was a peasant's son and was himself a peasant, who could scarcely read. Yes! God had
certainly created him to amuse others, the poor country devils who have neither theaters nor
fêtes, and he amused them conscientiously. In the café people treated him to drink in order
to keep him there, and he drank intrepidly, laughing and joking, hoaxing everybody without
vexing anyone, while the people were laughing heartily around him.

He was so droll that the very girls could not resist him, ugly as he was, because he made them
laugh so. He would drag them about joking all the while, and he tickled and squeezed them,
saying such funny things that they held their sides while they pushed him away.

Towards the end of June he engaged himself for the harvest to farmer Le Harivan, near Rouville.
For three whole weeks he amused the harvesters, male and female, by his jokes, both by day
and night. During the day, when he was in the fields, he wore an old straw hat which hid his
red shock head, and one saw him gathering up the yellow grain and tying it into bundles with
his long, thin arms; and then suddenly stopping to make a funny movement which made the laborers,
who always kept their eyes on him, laugh all over the field. At night he crept, like some crawling
animal, in among the straw in the barn where the women slept, causing screams and exciting
a disturbance. They drove him off with their wooden clogs, and he escaped on all fours, like
a fantastic monkey, amidst volleys of laughter from the whole place.

On the last day, as the wagon full of reapers, decked with ribbons and playing bag-pipes, shouting
and singing with pleasure and drink, went along the white, high road, slowly drawn by six dapple-gray
horses, driven by a lad in a blouse, with a rosette in his cap, Pavilly, in the midst of the
sprawling women, danced like a drunken satyr, and kept the little dirty-faced boys and astonished
peasants, standing staring at him open-mouthed on the way to the farm.

Suddenly, as they got to the gate of Le Harivan's farm yard, he gave a leap as he was lifting
up his arms, but unfortunately, as he came down, he knocked against the side of the long wagon,
fell over it onto the wheel, and rebounded into the road. His companions jumped out, but he
did not move; one eye was closed, while the other was open, and he was pale with fear, while
his long limbs were stretched out in the dust, and when they touched his right leg he began
to scream, and when they tried to make him stand up, he immediately fell down.

"I think one of his legs is broken," one of the men said.

And so it really was. Harivan, therefore, had him laid on a table and sent off a man on horseback
to Rouville to fetch the doctor, who came an hour later.

The farmer was very generous and said that he would pay for the man's treatment in the hospital,
so that the doctor carried Pavilly off in his carriage to the hospital, and had him put into
a white-washed ward, where his fracture was reduced.

As soon as he knew that it would not kill him, and that he would be taken care of, cuddled,
cured, and fed without having anything to do except to lie on his back between the sheets,
Pavilly's joy was unbounded, and he began to laugh silently and continuously, so as to show
his decayed teeth.

Whenever one of the Sisters of Mercy came near his bed he made grimaces of satisfaction, winking,
twisting his mouth awry and moving his nose, which was very long and mobile. His neighbors
in the ward, ill as they were, could not help laughing, and the Mother-Superior often came
to his bedside, to be amused for a quarter of an hour, and he invented all kinds of jokes and
stories for her, and as he had all the makings of a strolling actor in him, he would be devout
in order to please her, and spoke of religion with the serious air of a man who knows that
there are times when jokes are out of place.

One day, he took it into his head to sing to her. She was delighted and came to see him more
frequently, and then she brought him a hymn-book, so as to utilize his voice. Then he might
be seen sitting up in bed, for he was beginning to be able to move, singing the praises of
the Almighty and of Mary, in a falsetto voice, while the kind, stout sister stood by him and
beat time with her finger. When he could walk, the Superior offered to keep him for some time
longer to sing in chapel, to serve at Mass and to fulfill the duties of sacristan, and he accepted.
For a whole month he might be seen in his surplice, limping and singing the psalms and the
responses, with such movements of his head, that the number of the faithful increased, and
that people deserted the parish Church to attend Vespers at the hospital.

But as everything must come to an end in this world, they were obliged to discharge him, when
he was quite cured, and the Superior gave him twenty-five francs in return for his services.

As soon as Pavilly found himself in the street with all that money in his pocket, he asked
himself what he was going to do. Should he return to the village? Certainly not before having
a drink, for he had not had one for a long time, and so he went into a café. He did not go
into the town more than two or three times a year, and so he had a confused and intoxicating
recollection of an orgie, on one of those visits in particular, and so he asked for a glass
of the best brandy, which he swallowed at a gulp to grease the passage, and then he had another
to see how it tasted.

As soon as the strong and fiery brandy had touched his palate and tongue, awakening more vividly
than ever the sensation of alcohol which he was so fond of, and so longed for, which caresses,
and stings, and burns the mouth, he knew that he should drink a whole bottle of it, and so
he asked immediately what it cost, so as to spare himself having it in detail. They charged
him three francs, which he paid, and then he began quietly to get drunk.

However, he was methodical in it, as he wished to keep sober enough for other pleasures, and
so, as soon as he felt that he was on the point of seeing the fireplace bow to him, he got
up and went out with unsteady steps, with his bottle under his arm, in search of a house where
girls of easy virtue lived.

He found one, with some difficulty, after having asked a carter, who did not know of one; a
postman, who directed him wrong; a baker, who began to swear and called him an old pig; and
lastly, a soldier, who was obliging enough to take him to it, advised him to choose La Reine.

Although it was barely twelve o'clock, Pavilly went into that palace of delights, where he
was received by a servant, who wanted to turn him out again. But he made her laugh by making
a grimace, showed her three francs, the usual price of the special provisions of the place,
and followed her with difficulty up a dark staircase, which led to the first floor.

When he had been shown into a room, he asked for la Reine, and had another drink out of the
bottle, while he waited. But very shortly, the door opened and a girl came in. She was tall,
fat, red-faced, enormous. She looked at the drunken fellow, who had fallen into a seat, with
the eye of a judge of such matters, and said:

"Are you not ashamed of yourself, at this time of day?"

"Ashamed of what, Princess?" he stammered.

"Why, of disturbing a lady, before she has even had time to eat her dinner."

He wanted to have a joke, so he said:

"There is no such thing as time, for the brave."

"And there ought to be no time for getting drunk, either, old guzzler."

At this he got angry:

"I am not a guzzler, and I am not drunk."

"Not drunk?"

"No, I am not."

"Not drunk? Why, you could not even stand straight;" and she looked at him angrily, thinking
that all this time her companions were having their dinner.

"I ... I could dance a polka," he replied, getting up, and to prove his stability he got onto
the chair, made a pirouette and jumped onto the bed, where his thick, muddy shoes made two
great marks.

"Oh! you dirty brute!" the girl cried, and rushing at him, she struck him a blow with her fist
in the stomach, such a blow that Pavilly lost his balance, fell and struck the foot of the
bed, and making a complete somersault tumbled onto the night-table, dragging the jug and basin
with him, and then rolled onto the ground, roaring.

The noise was so loud, and his cries so piercing, that everybody in the house rushed in, the
master, mistress, servant, and the staff.

The master picked him up, but as soon as he had put him on his legs, the peasant lost his balance
again, and then began to call out that his leg was broken, the other leg, the sound one.

It was true, so they sent for a doctor, and it happened to be the same one who had attended
him at Le Harivan's.

"What! Is it you again?" he said.

"Yes, M'sieu."

"What is the matter with you?"

"Somebody has broken my other leg for me, M'sieu."

"Who did it, old fellow?"

"Why, a female."

Everybody was listening. The girls in their dressing gowns, with their mouths still greasy
from their interrupted dinner, the mistress of the house furious, the master nervous.

"This will be a bad job," the doctor said. "You know that the municipal authorities look upon
you with very unfavorable eyes, so we must try and hush the matter up."

"How can it be managed?" the master of the place asked.

"Why the best way would be to send him back to the hospital, from which he has just come out,
and to pay for him there."

"I would rather do that," the master of the house replied, "than have any fuss made about the
matter."

So half an hour later, Pavilly returned drunk and groaning to the ward which he had left an
hour before. The Superior lifted up her hands in sorrow, for she liked him, and with a smile,
for she was glad to have him back.

"Well, my good fellow, what is the matter with you now?"

"The other leg is broken, Madame."

"So you have been getting onto another load of straw, you old joker?"

And Pavilly, in great confusion, but still sly, said, with hesitation:

"No... no.... Not this time, no ... not this time. No ... no.... It was not my fault, not my
fault ...A mattress caused this."

She could get no other explanation out of him, and never knew that his relapse was due to her
twenty-five francs.

THE VENUS OF BRANIZA

Some years ago there lived in Braniza, a celebrated Talmadist, who was renowned no less on
account of his beautiful wife, than of his wisdom, his learning, and his fear of God. The Venus
of Braniza deserved that name thoroughly, for she deserved it for herself, on account of her
singular beauty, and even more as the wife of a man who was deeply versed in the Talmud; for
the wives of the Jewish philosophers are, as a rule, ugly, or even possess some bodily defect.

The Talmud explains this, in the following manner. It is well known that marriages are made
in heaven, and at the birth of a boy a divine voice calls out the name of his future wife,
and vice versâ. But just as a good father tries to get rid of his good wares out of doors,
and only uses the damaged stuff at home for his children, so God bestows those women whom other
men would not care to have, on the Talmudists.

Well, God made an exception in the case of our Talmudist, and had bestowed a Venus on him,
perhaps only in order to confirm the rule by means of this exception, and to make it appear
less hard. His wife was a woman who would have done honor to any king's throne, or to the pedestal
in any sculpture gallery. Tall, and with a wonderful, voluptuous figure, she carried a strikingly
beautiful head, surmounted by thick, black plaits, on her proud shoulders, while two large,
dark eyes languished and glowed beneath her long lashes, and her beautiful hands looked as
if they were carved out of ivory.

This beautiful woman, who seemed to have been designed by nature to rule, to see slaves at
her feet, to provide occupation for the painter's brush, the sculptor's chisel and the poet's
pen, lived the life of a rare and beautiful flower, which is shut up in a hot house, for she
sat the whole day long wrapped up in her costly fur jacket and looked down dreamily into the
street.

She had no children; her husband, the philosopher, studied, and prayed, and studied again from
early morning until late at night; his mistress was the Veiled Beauty, as the Talmudists call
the Kabbalah. She paid no attention to her house, for she was rich and everything went of its
own accord, just like a clock, which has only to be wound up once a week; nobody came to see
her, and she never went out of the house; she sat and dreamed and brooded and--yawned.

       *       *       *       *       *

One day when a terrible storm of thunder and lightning had spent all its fury over the town,
and all windows had been opened in order to let the Messiah in, the Jewish Venus was sitting
as usual in her comfortable easy chair, shivering in spite of her fur jacket, and was thinking,
when suddenly she fixed her glowing eyes on the man who was sitting before the Talmud, swaying
his body backwards and forwards, and said suddenly:

"Just tell me, when will Messias, the Son of David, come?"

"He will come," the philosopher replied, "when all the Jews have become either altogether virtuous
or altogether vicious, says the Talmud."

"Do you believe that all the Jews will ever become virtuous," the Venus continued.

"How am I to believe that!"

"So Messias will come, when all the Jews have become vicious?"

The philosopher shrugged his shoulders and lost himself again in the labyrinth of the Talmud,
out of which, so it is said, only one man returned unscathed, and the beautiful woman at the
window again looked dreamily out onto the heavy rain, while her white fingers played unconsciously
with the dark fur of her splendid jacket.

       *       *       *       *       *

One day the Jewish philosopher had gone to a neighboring town, where an important question
of ritual was to be decided. Thanks to his learning, the question was settled sooner than he
had expected, and instead of returning the next morning, as he had intended, he came back the
same evening with a friend, who was no less learned than himself. He got out of the carriage
at his friend's house, and went home on foot, and was not a little surprised when he saw his
windows brilliantly illuminated, and found an officer's servant comfortably smoking his pipe
in front of his house.

"What are you doing here?" he asked in a friendly manner, but with some curiosity, nevertheless.

"I am looking out, in case the husband of the beautiful Jewess should come home unexpectedly."

"Indeed? Well, mind and keep a good look out."

Saying this, the philosopher pretended to go away, but went into the house through the garden
entrance at the back. When he got into the first room, he found a table laid for two, which
had evidently only been left a short time previously. His wife was sitting as usual at her
bed room window wrapped in her fur jacket, but her cheeks were suspiciously red, and her dark
eyes had not got their usual languishing look, but now rested on her husband with a gaze which
expressed at the same time satisfaction and mockery. At that moment he kicked against an object
on the floor, which emitted a strange sound, which he picked up and examined in the light.
It was a pair of spurs.

"Who has been here with you?" the Talmudist said.

The Jewish Venus shrugged her shoulders contemptuously, but did not reply.

"Shall I tell you? The Captain of Hussars has been with you."

"And why should he not have been here with me?" she said, smoothing the fur on her jacket with
her white hand.

"Woman! are you out of your mind?"

"I am in full possession of my senses," she replied, and a knowing smile hovered round her
red voluptuous lips. "But must I not also do my part, in order that Messias may come and redeem
us poor Jews?"

LA MORILLONNE

They called her La Morillonne[12] because of her black hair and of her complexion, which resembled
autumnal leaves, and because of her mouth with thick purple lips, which were like blackberries,
when she curled them.

[Footnote 12: Black Grapes.]

That she should be born as dark as this in a district where everybody was fair, and engendered
by a father and mother with tow-colored hair and a complexion like butter was one of the mysteries
of atavism. One of her female ancestors must have had an intimacy with one of those traveling
tinkers who, have gone about the country from time immemorial, with faces the color of bistre
and indigo, crowned by a wisp of light hair.

From that ancestor she derived, not only her dark complexion, but also her dark soul, her deceitful
eyes, whose depths were at times illuminated by flashes of every vice, her eyes of an obstinate
and malicious animal.

Handsome? Certainly not, nor even pretty. Ugly, with an absolute ugliness! Such a false look!
Her nose was flat, and had been smashed by a blow, while her unwholesome looking mouth was
always slobbering with greediness, or uttering something vile. Her hair was thick and untidy,
and a regular nest for vermin, to which may be added a thin, feverish body, with a limping
walk. In short, she was a perfect monster, and yet all the young men of the neighborhood had
made love to her, and whoever had been so honored, longed for her society again.

From the time that she was twelve, she had been the mistress of every fellow in the village.
She had corrupted boys of her own age in every conceivable manner and place.

Young men at the risk of imprisonment, and even steady, old, notable and venerable men, such
as the farmer at Eclausiaux, Monsieur Martin, the ex-mayor and other highly respectable men,
had been taken by the manners of that creature, and the reason why the rural policeman was
not severe upon them, in spite of his love for summoning people before the magistrates, was,
so people said, that he would have been obliged to take out a summons against himself.

The consequence was that she had grown up without being interfered with, and was the mistress
of every fellow in the village, as the school-master said; who had himself been one of the
fellows. But the most curious part of the business was that no one was jealous. They handed
her on from one to the other, and when someone expressed his astonishment at this to her one
day, she said to this unintelligent stranger:

"Is everybody not satisfied?"

And then, how could any one of them, even if he had been jealous, have monopolized her? They
had no hold on her. She was not selfish, and though she accepted all gifts, whether in kind
or in money, she never asked for anything and she even appeared to prefer paying herself after
her own fashion, by stealing. All she seemed to care about as her reward was pilfering, and
a crown put into her hand, gave her less pleasure than a halfpenny which she had stolen. Neither
was it any use to dream of ruling her as the sole male, or as the proud master of the hen roost,
for which of them, no matter how broad shouldered he was, would have been capable of it? Some
had tried to vanquish her, but in vain.

How then, could any of them claim to be her master? It would have been the same as wishing
to have the sole right of baking their bread in the common oven, in which the whole village baked.

But there was one man who formed the exception, and that was Bru, the shepherd.

He lived in the fields in his movable hut, on cakes made of unleavened dough, which he kneaded
on a stone and baked in the hot ashes, now here, now there, is a hole dug out in the ground,
and heated with dead wood. Potatoes, milk, hard cheese, blackberries, and a small cask of old
gin that he had distilled himself, were his daily pittance; but he knew nothing about love,
although he was accused of all sorts of horrible things, and therefore nobody dared abuse him
to his face; in the first place, because Bru was a spare and sinewy man, who handled his shepherd's
crook like a drum-major does his staff; next, because of his three sheep dogs, who had teeth
like wolves, and who knew nobody except their master; and lastly, for fear of the evil eye.
For Bru, it appeared, knew spells which would blight the corn, give the sheep foot rot, the
cattle the rinder pest, make cows die in calving, and set fire to the ricks and stacks.

But as Bru was the only one who did not loll out his tongue after La Morillonne, naturally
one day she began to think of him, and she declared that she, at any rate, was not afraid of
his evil eye, and so she went after him.

"What do you want?" he said, and she replied boldly:

"What do I want? I want you."

"Very well," he said, "but then you must belong to me alone."

"All right," was her answer, "if you think you can please me."

He smiled and took her into his arms, and she was away from the village for a whole week. She
had, in fact, become entirely Bru's exclusive property.

The village grew excited. They were not jealous of each other, but they were of him. What!
Could she not resist him. Of course he had charms and spells against every imaginable thing.
And they grew furious. Next they grew bold, and watched from behind a tree. She was still as
lively as ever, but he, poor fellow, seemed to have become suddenly ill, and required the most
tender nursing at her hands. The villagers, however, felt no compassion for the poor shepherd,
and so, one of them, more courageous than the rest, advanced towards the hut with his gun in
his hand:

"Tie up your dogs," he cried out from a distance; "fasten them up, Bru, or I shall shoot them."

"You need not be frightened of the dogs," La Morillonne replied; "I will be answerable for
it that they will not hurt you;" and she smiled as the young man with the gun went towards her.

"What do you want?" the shepherd said.

"I can tell you," she replied. "He wants me and I am very willing. There!"

Bru began to cry, and she continued:

"You are a good for nothing."

And she went off with the lad, while Bru seized his crook, seeing which the young fellow raised
his gun.

"Seize him! seize him!" the shepherd shouted, urging on his dogs, while the other had already
got his finger on the trigger to fire at them. But La Morillonne pushed down the muzzle and
called out:

"Here, dogs! here! Prr, prr, my beauties!"

And the three dogs rushed up to her, licked her hands and frisked about as they followed her,
while she called to the shepherd from the distance:

"You see, Bru, they are not at all jealous!"

And then, with a short and evil laugh, she added:

"They are my property now." I walked inside, with no object in view. I was not the least thirsty.
One could guess that the pantaloons were not suspended from braces, and that this man could
not take ten paces without his having to stop to pull them up and to readjust them. Did he
wear a vest? The mere thought of his boots and that which they enveloped filled me with horror.

"No, but what do you mean to assert?

I could not believe him.

"You must surely have been married as well? One could not get as bald-headed as you are without
having been much in love."

He shook his head, sending down his back little white things which fell from the end of his locks:

"No, I have always been virtuous." It was a very stormy day. The whole line of trees bent under
the pressure of the wind, groaned, and seemed to utter cries--cries, though dull, yet deep,
that the whole forest rang under the tempest. But becoming seized with fear, I stopped a few
paces from them. My boyish head whirled round, floated.

He darted through the vast saloon, which was now full of smoke and of people drinking, uttering
his cry:

"Waiter, a 'bock'--and a new pipe."

REGRET

Monsieur Savel, who was called in Mantes, "Father Savel," had just risen from bed. He wept.
It was a dull autumn day; the leaves were falling. They fell slowly in the rain, resembling
another rain, but heavier and slower. M. Savel was not in good spirit. He walked from the fireplace
to the window, and from the window to the fireplace. Life has its somber days. It will no longer
have any but somber days for him now, for he has reached the age of sixty-two. He is alone,
an old bachelor, with nobody about him. How sad it is to die alone, all alone, without the
disinterested affection of anyone!

He pondered over his life, so barren, so void. He recalled the days gone by, the days of his
infancy, the house, the house of his parents; his college days, his follies, the time of his
probation in Paris, the illness of his father, his death. He then returned to live with his
mother. They lived together, the young man and the old woman, very quietly, and desired nothing
more. At last the mother died. How sad a thing is life! He has lived always alone, and now,
in his turn, he, too, will soon be dead. He will disappear, and that will be the finish. There
will be no more of Savel upon the earth. What a frightful thing! Other people will live, they
will live, they will laugh. Yes, people will go on amusing themselves, and he will no longer
exist! Is it not strange that people can laugh, amuse themselves, be joyful under that eternal
certainty of death! If this death were only probable, one could then have hope; but no, it
is inevitable, as inevitable as that night follows the day.

If, however, his life had been complete! If he had done something; if he had had adventures,
grand pleasures, successes, satisfaction of some kind or another. But now, nothing. He had
done nothing, never anything but rise from bed, eat, at the same hours, and go to bed again.
And he has gone on like that, to the age of sixty-two years. He had not even taken unto himself
a wife, as other men do. Why? Yes, why was it that he was not married? He might have been,
for he possessed considerable means. Was it an opportunity which had failed him? Perhaps! But
one can create opportunities. He was indifferent; that was all. Indifference had been his greatest
drawback, his defect, his vice. Have some men missed their lives through indifference! To certain
natures, it is so difficult for them to get out of bed, to move about, to take long walks,
to speak, to study any question.

He had not even been in love. No woman had reposed on his bosom, in a complete abandon of love.
He knew nothing of this delicious anguish of expectation, of the divine quivering of the pressed
hand, of the ecstacy of triumphant passion.

What superhuman happiness must inundate your heart, when lips encounter lips for the first
time, when the grasp of four arms makes one being of you, a being unutterably happy, two beings
infatuated with one another.

M. Savel was sitting down, his feet on the fender, in his dressing gown. Assuredly his life
had been spoiled, completely spoiled. He had, however, loved. He had loved secretly, dolorously
and indifferently, just as was characteristic of him in everything. Yes, he had loved his old
friend, Madame Saudres, the wife of his old companion, Saudres. Ah! if he had known her as
a young girl! But he had encountered her too late; she was already married. Unquestionably
he would have asked her hand; that he would! How he had loved her, nevertheless, without respite,
since the first day he had set eyes on her!

He recalled, without emotion, all the times he had seen her, his grief on leaving her, the
many nights that he could not sleep, because of his thinking of her.

In the mornings he always got up somewhat less amorous than in the evening.

Why?

Seeing that she was formerly pretty, and "crumy," blonde, curl, joyous. Saudres was not the
man she would have selected. She was now fifty-two years of age. She seemed happy. Ah! if she
had only loved him in days gone by; yes, if she had only loved him! And why should she not
have loved him, he, Savel, seeing that he loved her so much, yes, she, Madame Saudres!

If only she could have divined something--Had she not divined anything, had she not seen anything,
never comprehended anything? But! Then what would she have thought? If he had spoken what would
she have answered?

And Savel asked himself a thousand other things. He reviewed his whole life, seeking to grasp
again a multitude of details.

He recalled all the long evenings spent at the house of Saudres, when the latter's wife was
young and so charming.

He recalled many things that she had said to him, the sweet intonations of her voice, the little
significant smiles that meant so much.

He recalled the walks that the three of them had had, along the banks of the Seine, their lunches
on the grass on the Sundays, for Saudres was employed at the sub-prefecture. And all at once
the distant recollection came to him, of an afternoon spent with her in a little plantation
on the banks of the river.

They had set out in the morning, carrying their provisions in baskets. It was a bright spring
morning, one of those days which inebriate one. Everything smelt fresh, everything seemed happy.
The voices of the birds sounded more joyous, and the flapping of their wings more rapid. They
had lunch on the grass, under the willow trees, quite close to the water, which glittered in
the sun's rays. The air was balmy, charged with the odors of fresh vegetation; they had drunk
the most delicious wines. How pleasant everything was on that day!

After lunch, Saudres went to sleep on the broad of his back, "The best nap he had in his life,"
said he, when he woke up.

Madame Saudres had taken the arm of Savel, and they had started to walk along the river's bank.

She leaned tenderly on his arm. She laughed and said to him: "I am intoxicated, my friend,
I am quite intoxicated." He looked at her, his heart going patty-patty. He felt himself grow
pale, fearful that he had not looked too boldly at her, and that the trembling of his hand
had not revealed his passion.

She had decked her head with wild flowers and water-lilies, and she had asked him: "Do you
not like to see me appear thus?"

As he did not answer--for he could find nothing to say, he should rather have gone down on
his knees--she burst out laughing, a sort of discontented laughter, which she threw straight
in his face, saying: "Great goose, what ails you? You might at least speak!"

He felt like crying, and could not even yet find a word to say.

All these things came back to him now, as vividly as on the day when they took place. Why had
she said this to him, "Great goose. What ails you! You might at least speak!"

And he recalled how tenderly she had leaned on his arm. And in passing under a shady tree he
had felt her ear leaning against his cheek, and he had tilted his head abruptly, for fear that
she had not meant to bring their flesh into contact.

When he had said to her: "Is it not time to return?" she darted at him a singular look. "Certainly,"
she said, "certainly," regarding him at the same time in a curious manner. He had not thought
of anything then; and now the whole thing appeared to him quite plain.

"Just as you like, my friend. If you are tired let us go back."

And he had answered: "It is not that I am fatigued; but Saudres has perhaps woke up now."

And she had said: "If you are afraid of my husband's being awake, that is another thing. Let
us return."

In returning she remained silent and leaned no longer on his arm. Why?

At that time it had never occurred to him to ask himself "why." Now he seemed to apprehend
something that he had not then understood.

What was it?

M. Savel felt himself blush, and he got up at a bound, feeling thirty years younger, believing
that he now understood Madame Saudres then to say, "I love you."

Was it possible! That suspicion which had just entered his soul, tortured him. Was it possible
that he could not have seen, not have dreamed!

Oh! if that could be true, if he had rubbed against such good fortune without laying hold of it!

He said to himself: "I wish to know. I cannot remain in this state of doubt. I wish to know!"
He put on his clothes quickly, dressed in hot haste. He thought: "I am sixty-two years of age,
she is fifty-eight; I may ask her that now without giving offense."

He started out.

The Saudres's house was situated on the other side of the street, almost directly opposite
his own. He went up to it, knocked, and a little servant came to open the door.

"You there at this hour, ill, Savel! Has some accident happened to you?"

M. Savel responded:

"No, my girl; but go and tell your mistress that I want to speak to her at once."

"The fact is, Madame is preparing her stock of pear-jams for the winter, and she is standing
in front of the fire. She is not dressed, as you may well understand."

"Yes, but go and tell her that I wish to see her on an important matter."

The little servant went away, and Savel began to walk, with long, nervous strides, up and down
the drawing-room. He did not feel himself the least embarrassed, however. Oh! he was merely
going to ask her something, as he would have asked her about some cooking receipt, and that
was: "Do you know that I am sixty-two years of age!"

The door opened; and Madame appeared. She was now a gross woman, fat and round, with full cheeks,
and a sonorous laugh. She walked with her arms away from her body, and her sleeves tucked up
to the shoulders, her bare arms all smeared with sugar juice. She asked, anxiously:

"What is the matter with you, my friend; you are not ill, are you?"

"No, my dear friend; but I wish to ask you one thing, which to me is of the first importance,
something which is torturing my heart, and I want you to promise that you will answer me candidly."

She laughed, "I am always candid. Say on."

"Well, then. I have loved you from the first day I ever saw you. Can you have any doubt of this?"

She responded, laughing, with something of her former tone of voice.

"Great goose! what ails you? I knew it well from the very first day!"

Savel began to tremble. He stammered out: "You knew it? Then--"

He stopped.

She asked:

"Then?... What?"

He answered:

"Then ... what would you think?... what ... what.... What would you have answered?"

She broke forth into a peal of laughter, which made the sugar juice run off the tips of her
fingers on to the carpet.

"I? But you did not ask me anything. It was not for me to make a declaration."

He then advanced a step towards her.

"Tell me ... tell me.... You remember the day when Saudres went to sleep on the grass after
lunch ... when we had walked together as far as the bend of the river, below ..."

He waited, expectantly. She had ceased to laugh, and looked at him, straight in the eyes.

"Yes, certainly, I remember it."

He answered, shivering all over.

"Well ... that day ... if I had been ... if I had been ... enterprising ... what would you
have done?"

She began to laugh as only a happy woman can laugh, who has nothing to regret, and responded,
frankly, in a voice tinged with irony:

"I would have yielded, my friend."

She then turned on her heels and went back to her jam-making.

Savel rushed into the street, cast down, as though he had encountered some great disaster.
He walked with giant strides, through the rain, straight on, until he reached the river, without
thinking where he was going. When he reached the bank he turned to the right and followed it.
He walked a long time, as if urged on by some instinct. His clothes were running with water,
his hat was bashed in, as soft as a piece of rag, and dripping like a thatched roof. He walked
on, straight in front of him. At last, he came to the place where they had lunched so long,
long ago, the recollection of which had tortured his heart. He sat down under the leafless
trees, and he wept.

THE PORT

PART I

Having sailed from Havre on the 3rd of May, 1882, for a voyage in the China seas, the square-rigged
three-master, Notre Dame des Vents, made her way back into the port of Marseilles, on the 8th
of August, 1886, after an absence of four years. When she had discharged her first cargo in
the Chinese port for which she was bound, she had immediately found a new freight for Buenos
Ayres, and from that place had conveyed goods to Brazil.

Other passages, then damage repairs, calms ranging over several months, gales which knocked
her out of her course--all the accidents, adventures, and misadventures of the sea, in short--had
kept far from her country, this Norman three-master, which had come back to Marseilles with
her hold full of tin boxes containing American preserves.

At her departure, she had on board, besides the captain and the mate, fourteen sailors, eight
Normans and six Britons. On her return, there were left only five Britons and four Normans;
the other Briton had died while on the way; the four Normans having disappeared under various
circumstances, had been replaced by two Americans, a negro, and a Norwegian carried off, one
evening, from a tavern in Singapore.

The big vessel, with reefed sails and yards crossed over her masts, drawn by a tug from Marseilles,
rocking over a sweep of rolling waves which subsided gently on becoming calm, passed in front
of the Château d'If, then under all the gray rocks of the roadstead, which the setting sun
covered with a golden vapor; and she entered the ancient port, in which are packed together,
side by side, ships from every part of the world, pell mell, large and small, of every shape
and every variety of rigging, soaking like a "bouillabaise" of boats in this basin too limited
in extent, full of putrid water, where shells touch each other, rub against each other, and
seem to be pickled in the juice of the vessels.

Notre Dame des Vents took up her station between an Italian brig and an English schooner, which
made way to let this comrade slip in between them; then, when all the formalities of the custom-house
and of the port had been complied with, the captain authorized the two-thirds of his crew to
spend the night on shore.

It was already dark. Marseilles was lighted up. In the heat of this summer's evening a flavor
of cooking with garlic floated over the noisy city, filled with the clamor of voices, of rolling
vehicles, of the crackling of whips, and of southern mirth.

As soon as they felt themselves on shore, the ten men, whom the sea had been tossing about
for some months past, proceeded along quite slowly with the hesitating steps of persons who
are out of their element, unaccustomed to cities, two by two, procession.

They swayed from one side to another as they walked, looked about them, smelling out the lanes
opening out on the harbor, rendered feverish by the amorous appetite which had been growing
to maturity in their bodies during their last sixty-six days at sea. The Normans strode on
in front, led by Célestin Duclos, a tall young fellow, sturdy and waggish, who served as a
captain for the others every time they set forth on land. He divined the places worth visiting,
found out by-ways after a fashion of his own, and did not take much part in the squabbles so
frequent among sailors in seaport towns. But, once he was caught in one, he was afraid of nobody.

After some hesitation as to which of the obscure streets which lead down to the waterside,
and from which arise heavy smells, a sort of exhalation from closets, they ought to enter,
Célestin gave the preference to a kind of winding passage, where gleamed over the doors projecting
lanterns bearing enormous numbers on their rough colored glass. Under the narrow arches at
the entrance to the houses, women wearing aprons like servants, seated on straw chairs, rose
up on seeing them coming near, taking three steps towards the gutter which separated the street
into two halves, and which cut off the path from this file of men, who sauntered along at their
leisure, humming and sneering, already getting excited by the vicinity of those dens of prostitutes.

Sometimes, at the end of a hall, appeared, behind a second open door, which presented itself
unexpectedly, covered over with dark leather, a big wench, undressed, whose heavy thighs and
fat calves abruptly outlined themselves under her coarse white cotton wrapper. Her short petticoat
had the appearance of a puffed out girdle; and the soft flesh of her breast, her shoulders,
and her arms, made a rosy stain on a black velvet corsage with edgings of gold lace. She kept
calling out from her distant corner, "Will you come here, my pretty boys?" and sometimes she
would go out herself to catch hold of one of them, and to drag him towards her door with all
her strength, fastening on to him like a spider drawing forward an insect bigger than itself.
The man, excited by the struggle, would offer a mild resistance, and the rest would stop to
look on, undecided between the longing to go in at once and that of lengthening this appetizing
promenade. Then when the woman, after desperate efforts, had brought the sailor to the threshold
of her abode, in which the entire band would be swallowed up after him, Célestin Duclos, who
was a judge of houses of this sort, suddenly exclaimed: "Don't go in there, Marchand! That's
not the place."

The man, thereupon, obeying this direction, freed himself with a brutal shake; and the comrades
formed themselves into a band once more, pursued by the filthy insults of the exasperated wench,
while other women, all along the alley, in front of them, came out past their doors, attracted
by the noise, and in hoarse voices threw out to them invitations coupled with promises. They
went on, then, more and more stimulated, from the combined effects of the coaxings and the
seductions held out as baits to them by the choir of portresses of love all over the upper
part of the street, and the ignoble maledictions hurled at them by the choir at the lower end--the
despised choir of disappointed wenches. From time to time, they met another band--soldiers
marching along with spurs jingling at their heels--sailors again--isolated citizens--clerks
in business houses. On all sides might be seen fresh streets, narrow, and studded all over
with those equivocal lanterns. They pursued their way still through this labyrinth of squalid
habitation, over those greasy pavements through which putrid water was oozing, between those
walls filled with women's flesh.

At last, Duclos made up his mind, and, drawing up before a house of rather attractive exterior,
made all his companions follow him in there.

PART II

Then followed a scene of thorough going revelry. For four hours the six sailors gorged themselves
with love and wine. Six months' pay was thus wasted.

In the principal room in the tavern they were installed as masters, gazing with malignant glances
at the ordinary customers, who were seated at the little tables in the corners, where one of
the girls, who was left free to come and go, dressed like a big baby or a singer at a café-concert,
went about serving them, and then seated herself near them. Each man, on coming in, had selected
his partner, whom he kept all the evening, for the vulgar taste is not changeable. They had
drawn three tables close up to them; and, after the first bumper, the procession divided into
two parts, increased by as many women as there were seamen, had formed itself anew on the staircase.
On the wooden steps, the four feet of each couple kept tramping for some time, while this long
file of lovers got swallowed up behind the narrow doors leading into the different rooms.

Then they came down again to have a drink, and, after they had returned to the rooms descended
the stairs once more.

Now, almost intoxicated, they began to howl. Each of them, with bloodshot eyes, and his chosen
female companion on his knee, sang or bawled, struck the table with his fist, shouted while
swilling wine down his throat, set free the human brute. In the midst of them, Célestin Duclos,
pressing close to him, a big damsel with red cheeks, who sat astride over his legs, gazed at
her ardently. Less tipsy than the others, not that he had taken less drink, he was as yet occupied
with other thoughts, and, more tender than his comrades, he tried to get up a chat. His thoughts
wandered a little, escaped him, and then came back, and disappeared again, without allowing
him to recollect exactly what he meant to say.

"What time--what time--how long are you here?"

"Six months," the girl answered.

He seemed to be satisfied with her, as if this were a proof of good conduct, and he went on
questioning her:

"Do you like this life?"

She hesitated, then in a tone of resignation.

"One gets used to it. It is not more worrying than any other kind of life. To be a servant-girl
or else a scrub is always a nasty occupation."

He looked as if he also approved of the truthful remark.

"You are not from this place?" said he.

She answered merely by shaking her head.

"Do you come from a distance?"

She nodded, still without opening her lips.

"Where is it you come from?"

She appeared to be thinking, to be searching her memory, then said falteringly:

"From Perpignan."

He was once more perfectly satisfied, and said:

"Ah! yes."

In her turn she asked:

"And you, are you a sailor?"

"Yes, my beauty."

"Do you come from a distance?"

"Ah! yes. I have seen countries, ports, and everything."

"You have been round the world, perhaps?"

"I believe you, twice rather than once."

Again she seemed to hesitate, to search in her brain for something that she had forgotten,
then, in a tone somewhat different, more serious:

"Have you met many ships in your voyages?"

"I believe you, my beauty."

"You did not happen to see the Notre Dame des Vents?"

He chuckled:

"No later than last week."

She turned pale, all the blood leaving her cheeks, and asked:

"Is that true, perfectly true?"

"'Tis true as I tell you."

"Honor bright! you are not telling me a lie?"

He raised his hand.

"Before God, I'm not!" said he.

"Then do you know whether Célestin Duclos is still on her?"

He was astonished, uneasy, and wished, before answering, to learn something further.

"Do you know him?"

She became distrustful in turn.

"Oh! 'tis not myself--'tis a woman who is acquainted with him."

"A woman from this place?"

"No, from a place not far off."

"In the street?"

"What sort of a woman?"

"Why, then, a woman--a woman like myself."

"What has she to say to him, this woman?"

"I believe she is a country-woman of his."

They stared into one another's hand, watching one another, feeling, divining that something
of a grave nature was going to arise between them.

He resumed:

"I could see her there, this woman."

"What would you say to her?"

"I would say to her--I would say to her--that I had seen Célestin Duclos."

"He is quite well--isn't he?"

"As well as you or me--he is a strapping young fellow."

She became silent again, trying to collect her ideas; then slowly:

"Where has the Notre Dame des Vents gone to?"

"Why, just to Marseilles."

She could not repress a start.

"Is that really true?"

"'Tis really true."

"Do you know Duclos?"

"Yes, I do know him."

She still hesitated; then in a very gentle tone:

"Good! That's good!"

"What do you want with him?"

"Listen!--you will tell him--nothing!"

He stared at her, more and more perplexed. At last, he put this question to her:

"Do you know him, too, yourself?"

"No," said she.

"Then what do you want with him?"

Suddenly, she made up her mind what to do, left her seat, rushed over to the bar where the
landlady of the tavern presided, seized a lemon, which she tore open, and shed its juice into
a glass, then she filled this glass with pure water, and carrying it across to him:

"Drink this!"

"Why?"

"To make it pass for wine. I will talk to you afterwards."

He drank it without further protest, wiped his lips with the back of his hand, then observed:

"That's all right. I am listening to you."

"You will promise not to tell him you have seen me, or from whom you learned what I am going
to tell you. You must swear not to do so."

He raised his hand.

"All right. I swear I will not."

"Before God?"

"Before God."

"Well, you will tell him that his father died, that his mother died, that his brother died,
the whole three in one month, of typhoid fever, in January, 1883--three years and a half ago."

In his turn, he felt all his blood set in motion through his entire body, and for a few seconds
he was so much overpowered that he could make no reply; then he began to doubt what she had
told him, and asked:

"Are you sure?"

"I am sure."

"Who told it to you?"

She laid her hands on his shoulders, and looking at him out of the depths of her eyes:

"You swear not to blab?"

"I swear that I will not."

"I am his sister!"

He uttered that name in spite of himself:

"Francoise?"

She contemplated him once more with a fixed stare, then, excited by a wild feeling of terror,
a sense of profound horror, she faltered in a very low tone, almost speaking into his mouth:

"Oh! oh! it is you, Célestin."

They no longer stirred, their eyes riveted in one another.

Around them, his comrades were still yelling. The sounds made by glasses, by fists, by heels
keeping time to the choruses, and the shrill cries of the women, mingled with the roar of their
songs.

He felt her leaning on him, clasping him, ashamed and frightened, his sister. Then, in a whisper,
lest anyone might hear him, so hushed that she could scarcely catch his words:

"What a misfortune! I have made a nice piece of work of it!"

The next moment, her eyes filled with tears, and she faltered:

"Is that my fault?"

But, all of a sudden, he said:

"So then, they are dead?"

"They are dead."

"The father, the mother, and the brother?"

"The three in one month, and I told you. I was left by myself with nothing but my clothes,
for I was in debt to the apothecary and the doctor and for the funeral of the three, and had
to pay what I owed with the furniture."

"After that I went as a servant to the house of Mait'e Cacheux--you know him well--the cripple.
I was just fifteen at the time, for you went away when I was not quite fourteen. I tripped
with him. One is so senseless when one is young. Then I went as a nursery-maid to the notary
who debauched me also, and brought me to Havre, where he took a room for me. After a little
while, he gave up coming to see me. For three days I lived without eating a morsel of food;
and then, not being able to get employment, I went to a house, like many others. I, too, have
seen different places--ah! and dirty places! Rouen, Evreux, Lille, Bordeaux, Perpignan, Nice,
and then Marseilles, where I am now!"

The tears started from her eyes, flowed over her nose, wet her cheeks, and trickled into her mouth.

She went on:

"I thought you were dead, too?--my poor Cèlestin."

He said:

"I would not have recognized you myself--you were such a little thing then, and here you are
so big!--but how is it that you did not recognize me?"

She answered with a despairing movement of her hands:

"I see so many men that they all seem to me alike."

He kept his eyes still fixed on her intently, oppressed by an emotion that dazed him, and filled
him with such pain as to make him long to cry like a little child that has been whipped. He
still held her in his arms, while she sat astride on his knees, with his open hands against
the girl's back; and now by sheer dint of looking continually at her, he at length recognized
her, the little sister left behind in the country with all those whom she had seen die, while
he had been tossing on the seas. Then, suddenly taking between his big seaman's paws this head
found once more, he began to kiss her, as one kisses kindred flesh. And after that, sobs, a
man's deep sobs, heaving like great billows, rose up in his throat, resembling the hiccoughs
of drunkenness.

He stammered:

"And this is you--this is you, Francoise--my little Francoise!"--

Then, all at once, he sprang up, began swearing in an awful voice, and struck the table such
a blow with his fists that the glasses were knocked down and smashed. After that, he advanced
three steps, staggered, stretched out his arms, and fell on his face. And he rolled on the
ground, crying out, beating the floor with his hands and feet, and uttering such groans that
they seemed like a death-rattle.

All those comrades of his stared at him, and laughed.

"He's not a bit drunk," said one.

"He ought to be put to bed," said another. "If he goes out, we'll all be run in together."

Then, as he had money in his pockets, the landlady offered to let him have a bed, and his comrades,
themselves so much intoxicated that they could not stand upright, hoisted him up the narrow
stairs to the apartment of the woman who had just been in his company, and who remained sitting
on a chair, at the foot of that bed of crime, weeping quite as freely as he had wept, until
the morning dawned.

THE HERMIT

We had gone to see, with some friends, the old hermit installed on an antique mound covered
with tall trees, in the midst of the vast plain which extends from Cannes to La Napoule.

On our return we spoke of those strange lay solitaries, numerous in former times, but now a
vanished race. We sought to find out the moral causes, and endeavored to determine the nature
of the griefs which in bygone days had driven men into solitudes.

All of a sudden one of our companions said:

"I have known two solitaries--a man and a woman. The woman must be living still. She dwelt,
five years ago, on the ruins of a mountain top absolutely deserted on the coast of Corsica,
fifteen or twenty kilometers away from every house. She lived there with a maid-servant. I
went to see her. She had certainly been a distinguished woman of the world. She received me
with politeness and even in a gracious manner, but I know nothing about her, and I could find
out nothing about her.

"As for the man, I am going to relate to you his ill-omened adventure:

       *       *       *       *       *

Look round! You see over there that peaked woody mountain which stands by itself behind La
Napoule in front of the summits of the Esterel; it is called in the district Snake Mountain.
There is where my solitary lived within the walls of a little antique temple about a dozen
years ago.

Having heard about him, I resolved to make his acquaintance, and I set out for Cannes on horseback
one March morning. Leaving my steed at the inn at La Napoule, I commenced climbing on foot
that singular cave, about one hundred and fifty perhaps, or two hundred meters in height, and
covered with aromatic plants, especially cysti, whose odor is so sharp and penetrating that
it irritates you and causes you discomfort. The soil is stony, and you can see gliding over
the pebbles long adders which disappear in the grass. Hence this well-deserved appellation
of Snake Mountain. On certain days, the reptiles seem to spring into existence under your feet
when you climb the declivity exposed to the rays of the sun. They are so numerous that you
no longer venture to go on, and experience a strange sense of uneasiness, not fear, for those
creatures are harmless, but a sort of mysterious terror. I had several times the peculiar sensation
of climbing a sacred mountain of antiquity, a fantastic hill perfumed and mysterious, covered
with cysti and inhabited by serpents and crowned with a temple.

This temple still exists. They told me, at any rate, that it was a temple; for I did not seek
to know more about it so as not to destroy the illusion.

So then, one March morning, I climbed up there under the pretext of admiring the country. On
reaching the top, I perceived, in fact, walls and a man sitting on a stone. He was scarcely
more than forty years of age, though his hair was quite white; but his beard was still almost
black. He was fondling a cat which had cuddled itself upon his knees, and did not seem to mind
me. I took a walk around the ruins, one portion of which covered over and shut in by means
of branches, straw, grass and stones, was inhabited by him, and I made my way towards the place
which he occupied.

The view here is splendid. On the right is the Esterel with its peaked summit strangely carved,
then the boundless sea stretching as far as the distant coast of Italy with its numerous capes,
facing Cannes, the Lerins Islands green and flat, which look as if they were floating, and
the last of which shows in the direction of the open sea an old castellated fortress with battlemented
towers built in the very waves.

Then, commanding a view of green mountain-side where you could see, at an equal distance, like
innumerable eggs laid on the edge of the shore the long chaplet of villas and white villages
built among the trees rose the Alps, whose summits are still shrouded in a hood of snow.

I murmured:

"Good heavens, this is beautiful!"

The man raised his head, and said:

"Yes, but when you see it every day, it is monstrous."

Then he spoke, he chatted, and tired himself with talking--my solitary, I detained him.

I did not tarry long that day, and only endeavored to ascertain the color of misanthropy. He
created on me especially the impression of being bored with other people, weary of everything,
hopelessly disillusioned and disgusted with himself as well as the rest.

I left him after a half-hour's conversation. But I came back, eight hours later, and once again
in the following week, then every week, so that before two months we were friends.

Now, one evening at the close of May, I decided that the moment had arrived, and I brought
provisions in order to dine with him on Snake Mountain.

It was one of those evenings of the South so odorous in that country where flowers are cultivated
just as wheat is in the North, in that country where every essence that perfumes the flesh
and the dress of women is manufactured, one of those evenings when the breath of the innumerable
orange-trees with which the gardens and all the recesses of the dales are planted, excite and
cause languor so that old men have dreams of love.

My solitary received me with manifest pleasure. He willingly consented to share in my dinner.

I made him drink a little wine, to which he had ceased to be accustomed. He brightened up and
began to talk about his past life. He had always resided in Paris, and had, it seemed to me,
lived a gay bachelor's life.

I asked him abruptly:

"What put into your head this funny notion of going to live on the top of a mountain?"

He answered immediately:

"Her! it was because I got the most painful shock that a man can experience. But why hide from
you this misfortune of mine? It will make you pity me, perhaps! And then--I have never told
anyone--never--and I would like to know, for once, what another thinks of it, and how he judges
it."

"Born in Paris, brought up in Paris, I grew to manhood and spent my life in that city. My parents
had left me an income of some thousands of francs a year, and I procured as a shelter, a modest
and tranquil place which enabled me to pass as wealthy for a bachelor.

"I had, since my youth, led a bachelor's life. You know what that is. Free and without family,
resolved not to take a legitimate wife, I passed at one time three months with one, at another
time six months with another, then a year without a companion, taking as my prey the mass of
women who are either to be had for the asking or bought.

"This every day, or, if you like the phrase better, commonplace, existence agreed with me,
satisfied my natural tastes for changes and silliness. I lived on the boulevard, in theaters
and cafés, always out of doors, always without a regular home, though I was comfortably housed.
I was one of those thousands of beings who let themselves float like corks, through life, for
whom the walls of Paris are the walls of the world, and who have no care about anything, having
no passion for anything. I was what is called a good fellow, without accomplishments and without
defects. That is all. And I judge myself correctly.

"Then, from twenty to forty years, my existence flowed along slowly or rapidly without any
remarkable event. How quickly they pass, the monstrous years of Paris, when none of those memories
worth fixing the date of find way into the soul, these long and yet hurried years, trivial
and gay, when you eat, drink and laugh without knowing why, your lips stretched out towards
all they can taste and all they can kiss, without having a longing for anything. You are young,
and you grow old without doing any of the things that others do, without any attachment, any
root, any bond, almost without friends, without family, without wife, without children.

"So, gently and quickly, I reached my fortieth year; and in order to celebrate this anniversary,
I invited myself to take a good dinner all alone in one of the principal cafés.

"After dinner, I was in doubt as to what I would do. I felt disposed to go to a theater; and
then the idea came into my head to make a pilgrimage to the Latin quarters, where I had in
former days lived as a law-student. So I made my way across Paris, and without premeditation
went in to one of those public-houses where you are served by girls.

"The one who attended at my table was quite young, pretty, and merry-looking. I asked her to
take a drink, and she at once consented. She sat down opposite me, and gazed at me with a practiced
eye, without knowing with what kind of a male she had to do. She was a fair-haired woman, or
rather a fair-haired girl, a fresh, quite fresh young creature, whom you guessed to be rosy
and plump under her swelling bodice. I talked to her in that flattering and idiotic style which
we always adopt with girls of this sort; and as she was truly charming, the idea suddenly occurred
to me to take her with me--always with a view to celebrating my fortieth year. It was neither
a long nor difficult task. She was free, she told me, for the past fortnight, and she forthwith
accepted my invitation to come and sup with me in the Halles when her work would be finished.

"As I was afraid lest she might give me the slip--you never can tell what may happen, or who
may come into those drink-shops, or what wind may blow into a woman's head--I remained there
all the evening waiting for her.

"I, too, had been free for the past month or two, and watching this pretty debutante of love
going from table to table, I asked myself the question whether it would not be worth my while
to make a bargain with her to live with me for some time. I am here relating to you one of
those ordinary adventures which occur every day in the lives of men in Paris.

"Excuse me for such gross details. Those who have not loved in a poetic fashion take and choose
women, as you choose a chop in a butcher's shop without caring about anything save the quality
of their flesh.

"Accordingly, I took her to her own house--for I had a regard for my own sheets. It was a little
working-girl's lodgings in the fifth story, clean and poor, and I spent two delightful hours
there. This little girl had a certain grace and a rare attractiveness.

"When I was about to leave the room, I advanced towards the mantelpiece in order to place there
the stipulated present, after having agreed on a day for a second meeting with the girl, who
remained in bed, I got a vague glimpse of a clock without a globe, two flower-vases and two
photographs, one of them very old, one of those proofs on glass called daguerreo-types. I carelessly
bent forward towards this portrait, and I remained speechless at the sight, too amazed to comprehend....
It was my own, the first portrait of myself, which I had got taken in the days when I was a
student in the Latin Quarter.

"I abruptly snatched it up to examine it more closely. I did not deceive myself--and I felt
a desire to burst out laughing, so unexpected and queer did the thing appear to me.

"I asked:

"'Who is this gentleman?'

"She replied:

"'Tis my father, whom I did not know. Mamma left it to me, telling me to keep it, as it might
be useful to me, perhaps, one day--'

"She hesitated, began to laugh, and went on:

"'I don't know in what way, upon my word. I don't think he'll care to acknowledge me.'

"My heart went beating wildly, like the mad gallop of a runaway horse. I replaced the portrait,
laying it down flat on the mantelpiece. On top of it I placed, without even knowing what I
was doing, two notes for a hundred francs, which I had in my pocket, and I rushed away, exclaiming:

"'We'll meet again soon--by-bye, darling--by-bye.'

"I heard her answering:

"'Till Tuesday.'

"I was on the dark staircase, which I descended, groping my way down.

"When I got into the open air, I saw that it was raining, and I started at a great pace down
some street or other.

"I walked straight on, stupefied, distracted, trying to jog my memory! Was this possible? Yes.
I remembered all of a sudden a girl who had written to me, about a month after our rupture,
that she was going to have a child by me. I had torn or burned the letter, and had forgotten
all about the matter. I should have looked at the woman's photograph over the girl's mantelpiece.
But would I have recognized it? It was the photograph of an old woman, it seemed to me.

"I reached the quay. I saw a bench, and sat down on it. It went on raining. People passed from
time to time under umbrellas. Life appeared to me odious and revolting, full of miseries, of
shames, of infamies deliberate or unconscious. My daughter!... I had just perhaps possessed
my own daughter! And Paris, this vast Paris, somber, mournful, dirty, sad, black, with all
those houses shut up, was full of such things, adulteries, incests, violated children, I recalled
to mind what I had been told about bridges haunted by the infamous votaries of vice.

"I had acted, without wishing it, without being aware of it, in a worse fashion than these
ignoble beings. I had entered my own daughter's bed!

"I was on the point of throwing myself into the water. I was mad! I wandered about till dawn,
then I came back to my own house to think.

"I thereupon did what appeared to me the wisest thing. I desired a notary to send for this
little girl, and to ask her under what conditions her mother had given her the portrait of
him whom she supposed to be her father, stating that he was intrusted with this duty by a friend.

"The notary executed my commands. It was on her death-bed that this woman had designated the
father of her daughter, and in the presence of a priest, whose name was given to me.

"Then, still in the name of this unknown friend, I got half of my fortune sent to this child,
about one hundred and forty thousand francs, of which she could only get the income. Then I
resigned my employment--and here I am.

"While wandering along this shore, I found this mountain, and I stopped there--up to what time
I am unable to say!

"What do you think of me, and of what I have done?"

I replied as I extended my hand towards him:

"You have done what you ought to do. Many others would have attached less importance to this
odious fatality."

He went on:

"I know that, but I was nearly going mad on account of it. It seems I had a sensitive soul
without ever suspecting it. And now I am afraid of Paris, as believers are bound to be afraid
of Hell. I have received a blow on the head--that is all--a blow resembling the fall of a tile
when one is passing through the street. I am getting better for some time past."

I quitted my solitary. I was much disturbed by his narrative.

I saw him again twice, then I went away, for I never remain in the South after the month of May.

When I came back in the following year the man was no longer on Snake Mountain; and I have
never since heard anything about him.

This is the history of my hermit.

THE ORDERLY

The cemetery, filled with officers, looked like a field covered with flowers. The kepis and
the red trousers, the stripes and the gold buttons, the shoulder-knots of the staff, the braid
of the chasseurs and the hussars, passed through the midst of the tombs, whose crosses, white
or black, opened their mournful arms--their arms of iron, marble, or wood--over the vanished
race of the dead.

Colonel Limousin's wife had just been buried. She had been drowned, two days before, while
taking a bath. It was over. The clergy had left; but the colonel, supported by two brother-officers,
remained standing in front of the pit, at the bottom of which he saw still the oaken coffin,
wherein lay, already decomposed, the body of his young wife.

He was almost an old man, tall and thin, with white moustache; and, three years ago, he had
married the daughter of a comrade, left an orphan on the death of her father, Colonel Sortis.

The captain and the lieutenant, on whom their commanding officer was leaning, attempted to
lead him away. He resisted, his eyes full of tears, which he heroically held back, and murmuring,
"No, no, a little while longer!" he persisted in remaining there, his legs bending under him,
at the side of that pit, which seemed to him bottomless, an abyss into which had fallen his
heart and his life, all that he held dear on earth.

Suddenly, General Ormont came up, seized the colonel by the arm, and dragging him from the
spot almost by force said: "Come, come, my old comrade! you must not remain here."

The colonel thereupon obeyed, and went back to his quarters. As he opened the door of his study,
he saw a letter on the table. When he took it in his hands, he was near falling with surprise
and emotion; he recognized his wife's handwriting. And the letter bore the post-mark and the
date of the same day. He tore open the envelope and read:

       *       *       *       *       *

"Father,

"Permit me to call you still father, as in days gone by. When you receive this letter, I shall
be dead and under the clay. Therefore, perhaps, you may forgive me.

"I do not want to excite your pity or to extenuate my sin. I only want to tell the entire and
complete truth, with all the sincerity of a woman who, in an hour's time, is going to kill herself.

"When you married me through generosity, I gave myself to you through gratitude, and I loved
you with all my girlish heart. I loved you as I loved my own father--almost as much; and one
day, while I sat on your knee, and you were kissing me, I called you 'Father' in spite of myself.
It was a cry of the heart, instinctive, spontaneous. Indeed, you were to me a father, nothing
but a father. You laughed, and you said to me, 'Address me always in that way, my child; it
gives me pleasure.'

"We came to the city; and--forgive me, father--I fell in love. Ah! I resisted long, well, nearly
two years--and then I yielded, I sinned, I became a fallen woman.

"And as to him? You will never guess who he is. I am easy enough about that matter, since there
were a dozen officers always around me and with me, whom you called my twelve constellations.

"Father, do not seek to know him, and do not hate him. He only did what any man, no matter
whom, would have done in his place, and then I am sure that he loved me, too, with all his heart.

"But listen! One day we had an appointment in the isle of Becasses--you know the little isle,
close to the mill. I had to get there by swimming, and he had to wait for me in a thicket,
and then to remain there till nightfall, so that nobody should see him going away. I had just
met him when the branches opened, and we saw Philippe, your orderly, who had surprised us.
I felt that we were lost, and I uttered a great cry. Thereupon he said to me--he, my lover--'Go,
swim back quietly, my darling, and leave me here with this man.'

"I went away so excited that I was near drowning myself, and I came back to you expecting that
something dreadful was about to happen.

"An hour later, Philippe said to me in a low tone, in the lobby outside the drawing-room where
I met him: 'I am at madame's orders, if she has any letters to give me.' Then I knew that he
had sold himself, and that my lover had bought him.

"I gave him some letters, in fact--all my letters--he took them away, and brought me back the
answers.

"This lasted about two months. We had confidence in him, as you had confidence in him yourself.

"Now, father, here is what happened. One day, in the same isle which I had to reach by swimming,
but this time alone, I found your orderly. This man had been waiting for me; and he informed
me that he was going to reveal everything about us to you, and deliver to you the letters which
he had kept, stolen, if I did not yield to his desires.

"Oh! father, father, I was filled with fear--a cowardly fear, an unworthy fear, a fear above
all of you who had been so good to me, and whom I had deceived--fear on his account too--you
would have killed him--for myself also perhaps! I cannot tell; I was mad, desperate; I thought
of once more buying this wretch who loved me, too--how shameful!

"We are so weak, we women, we lose our heads more easily than you do. And then, when a woman
once falls, she always falls lower and lower. Did I know what I was doing? I understood only
that one of you two and I were going to die--and I gave myself to this brute.

"You see, father, that I do not seek to excuse myself.

"Then, then--then what I should have foreseen happened--he had the better of me again and again,
when he wished, by terrifying me. He, too, has been my lover, like the other, every day. Is
not this abominable? And what punishment, father?

"So then it is all over with me. I must die. While I lived, I could not confess such a crime
to you. Dead, I dare everything. I could not do otherwise than die--nothing could have washed
me clean--I was too polluted. I could no longer love or be loved. It seemed to me that I stained
everyone by merely allowing my hand to be touched.

"Presently I am going to take my bath, and I will never come back.

"This letter for you will go to my lover. It will reach him when I am dead, and without anyone
knowing anything about it, he will forward it to you, accomplishing my last wishes. And you
shall read it on your return from the cemetery.

"Adieu, father! I have no more to tell you. Do whatever you wish, and forgive me."

       *       *       *       *       *

The colonel wiped his forehead, which was covered with perspiration. His coolness; the coolness
of days when he had stood on the field of battle, suddenly came back to him. He rang.

A man-servant made his appearance. "Send in Philippe to me," said he. Then, he opened the drawer
of his table.

The man entered almost immediately--a big soldier with red moustache, a malignant look, and
a cunning eye.

The colonel looked him straight in the face.

"You are going to tell me the name of my wife's lover."

"But, my colonel--"

The officer snatched his revolver out of the half-open drawer.

"Come! quick! You know I do not jest!"

"Well--my colonel--it is Captain Saint-Albert."

Scarcely had he pronounced this name when a flame flashed between his eyes, and he fell on
his face, his forehead pierced by a ball.

DUCHOUX

While descending the wide staircase of the club heated like a conservatory by the stove the
Baron de Mordiane had left his fur-coat open; therefore, when the huge street-door closed behind
him he felt a shiver of intense cold run through him, one of those sudden and painful shivers
which make us feel sad, as if we were stricken with grief. Moreover, he had lost some money,
and his stomach for some time past had troubled him, no longer permitting him to eat as he liked.

He went back to his own residence; and, all of a sudden, the thought of his great, empty apartment,
of his footman asleep in the ante-chamber, of the dressing-room in which the water kept tepid
for the evening toilet simmered pleasantly under the chafing-dish heated by gas, and the bed,
spacious, antique, and solemn-looking, like a mortuary couch, caused another chill, more mournful
still than that of the icy atmosphere, to penetrate to the bottom of his heart, the inmost
core of his flesh.

For some years past he had felt weighing down on him that load of solitude which sometimes
crushes old bachelors. Formerly, he had been strong, lively, and gay, giving all his days to
sport and all his nights to festive gatherings. Now, he had grown dull, and no longer took
pleasure in anything. Exercise fatigued him; suppers and even dinners made him ill; women annoyed
him as much as they had formerly amused him.

The monotony of evenings all like each other, of the same friends met again in the same place,
at the club, of the same game with a good hand and a run of luck, of the same talk on the same
topics, of the same witty remarks by the same lips, of the same jokes on the same themes, of
the same scandals about the same women, disgusted him so much as to make him feel at times
a veritable inclination to commit suicide. He could no longer lead this life regular and inane,
so commonplace, so frivolous and so dull at the same time, and he felt a longing for something
tranquil, restful, comfortable, without knowing what.

He certainly did not think of getting married, for he did not feel in himself sufficient fortitude
to submit to the melancholy, the conjugal servitude, to that hateful existence of two beings,
who, always together, knew one another so well that one could not utter a word which the other
would not anticipate, could not make a single movement which would not be foreseen, could not
have any thought or desire or opinion which would not be divined. He considered that a woman
could only be agreeable to see again when you know her but slightly, when there is something
mysterious and unexplored attached to her, when she remains disquieting, hidden behind a veil.
Therefore, what he would require was a family without family-life, wherein he might spend only
a portion of his existence; and, again, he was haunted by the recollection of his son.

For the past year he had been constantly thinking of this, feeling an irritating desire springing
up within him to see him, to renew acquaintance with him. He had become the father of this
child, while still a young man, in the midst of dramatic and touching incidents. The boy dispatched
to the South, had been brought up near Marseilles without ever hearing his father's name.

The latter had at first paid from month to month for the nurture, then for the education and
the expense of holidays for the lad, and finally had provided an allowance for him on making
a sensible match. A discreet notary had acted as an intermediary without ever disclosing anything.

The Baron de Mordiane accordingly knew merely that a child of his was living somewhere in the
neighborhood of Marseilles, that he was looked upon as intelligent and well-educated, that
he had married the daughter of an architect and contractor, to whose business he had succeeded.
He was also believed to be worth a lot of money.

Why should he not go and see this unknown son without telling his name, in order to form a
judgment about him at first and to assure himself that he would be able, in case of necessity,
to find an agreeable refuge in this family?

He had acted handsomely towards the young man, had settled a good fortune on him, which had
been thankfully accepted. He was, therefore, certain that he would not find himself clashing
against any inordinate sense of self-importance; and this thought, this desire, which every
day returned to him afresh, of setting out for the South, tantalized him like a kind of itching
sensation. A strange self-regarding feeling of affection also attracted him, bringing before
his mental vision this pleasant, warm abode by the seaside, where he would meet his young and
pretty daughter-in-law, his grandchildren, with outstretched arms, and his son, who would recall
to his memory the charming and short-lived adventure of bygone years. He regretted only having
given so much money, and that this money had prospered in the young man's hands, thus preventing
him from any longer presenting himself in the character of a benefactor.

He hurried along, with all these thoughts running through his brain, and the collar of his
fur-coat wrapped round his head. Suddenly he made up his mind. A cab was passing; he hailed
it, drove home, and, when his valet, just roused from a nap, had opened the door.

"Louis," said he, "we start to-morrow evening for Marseilles. We'll remain there perhaps a
fortnight. You will make all the necessary preparations."

The train rushed on past the Rhone with its sandbanks, then through yellow plains, bright villages,
and a wide expanse of country, shut in by bare mountains, which rose on the distant horizon.

The Baron de Mordiane, waking up after a night spent in a sleeping compartment of the train,
looked at himself, in a melancholy fashion, in the little mirror of his dressing-case. The
glaring sun of the South showed him some wrinkles which he had not observed before--a condition
of decrepitude unnoticed in the imperfect light of Parisian rooms. He thought, as he examined
the corners of his eyes, and saw the rumpled lids, the temples, the skinny forehead:

"Damn it, I've not merely got the gloss taken off--I've become quite an old fogy."

And his desire for rest suddenly increased, with a vague yearning, born in him for the first
time, to take his grandchildren on his knees.

About one o'clock in the afternoon, he arrived in a landau which he had hired at Marseilles,
in front of one of those houses of Southern France so white, at the end of their avenues of
plane-trees that they dazzle us and make our eyes droop. He smiled as he pursued his way along
the walk before the house, and reflected:

"Deuce take it! this is a nice place."

Suddenly, a young rogue of five or six made his appearance, starting out of a shrubbery, and
remained standing at the side of the path, staring at the gentleman with eyes wide open.

Mordiane came over to him:

"Good morrow, my boy."

The brat made no reply.

The baron, then, stooping down, took him up in his arms to kiss him, but, the next moment,
suffocated by the smell of garlic with which the child seemed impregnated all over, he put
him back again on the ground, muttering:

"Oh! it is the gardener's son."

And he proceeded towards the house.

The linen was hanging out to dry on a cord before the door--shirts and chemises, napkins, dish-cloths,
aprons, and sheets, while a row of socks, hanging from strings one above the other, filled
up an entire window, like sausages exposed for sale in front of a pork-butcher's shop.

The baron announced his arrival. A servant-girl appeared, a true servant of the South, dirty
and untidy, with her hair hanging in wisps and falling over her face, while her petticoat under
the accumulation of stains which had soiled it had retained only a certain uncouth remnant
of its old color, a hue suitable for a country fair or a mountebank's tights.

He asked:

"Is M. Duchoux at home?"

He had many years ago, in the mocking spirit of a skeptical man of pleasure, given this name
to the foundling, in order that it might not be forgotten that he had been picked up under
a cabbage.

The servant-girl asked:

"Do you want M. Duchoux?"

"Yes."

"Well, he is in the big room drawing up his plans."

"Tell him that M. Merlin wishes to speak to him."

She replied, in amazement:

"Hey! go inside then, if you want to see him."

And she bawled out:

"Monsieur Duchoux--a call."

The baron entered, and in a spacious apartment, rendered dark by the windows being half-closed,
he indistinctly traced out persons and things, which appeared to him very slovenly looking.

Standing in front of a table laden with articles of every sort, a little bald man was tracing
lines on a large sheet of paper.

He interrupted his work, and advanced two steps. His waistcoat left open, his unbuttoned breeches,
and his turned-up shirt-sleeves, indicated that he felt hot, and his muddy shoes showed that
it had rained hard some days before.

He asked with a very pronounced southern accent:

"Whom have I the honor of--?"

"Monsieur Merlin--I came to consult you about a purchase of building-ground."

"Ha! ha! very well!"

And Duchoux, turning towards his wife, who was knitting in the shade:

"Clear off a chair, Josephine."

Mordiane then saw a young woman, who appeared already old, as women look old at twenty-five
in the provinces, for want of attention to their persons, regular washing, and all the little
cares bestowed on feminine toilet which make them fresh, and preserve, till the age of fifty,
the charm and beauty of the sex. With a neckerchief over her shoulders, her hair clumsily braided--though
it was lovely hair, thick and black, you could see that it was badly brushed--she stretched
out towards a chair hands like those of a servant, and removed an infant's robe, a knife, a
fag-end of packe-bread, an empty flower-pot, and a greasy plate left on the seat, which she
then moved over towards the visitor.

He sat down, and presently noticed that Duchoux's work-table had on it, in addition to the
books and papers, two salads recently gathered, a wash-hand basin, a hair-brush, a napkin,
a revolver, and a number of cups which had not been cleaned.

The architect perceived this look, and said with a smile:

"Excuse us! there is a little disorder in the room--it is owing to the children."

And he drew across his chair, in order to chat with his client.

"So then you are looking out for a piece of ground in the neighborhood of Marseilles?"

His breath, though not close to the baron, carried towards the latter that odor of garlic which
the people of the South exhale as flowers do their perfume.

Mordiane asked:

"Is it your son that I met under the plane-trees?"

"Yes. Yes, the second."

"You have two of them?"

"Three, monsieur; one a year."

And Duchoux looked full of pride.

The baron was thinking:

"If they all have the same perfume, their nursery must be a real conservatory."

He continued:

"Yes, I would like a nice piece of ground near the sea, on a little solitary strip of beach--"

Thereupon Duchoux proceeded to explain. He had ten, twenty, fifty, a hundred, or more, pieces
of ground of the kind required, at different prices and suited to different tastes. He talked
just as a fountain flows, smiling, self-satisfied, wagging his bald round head.

And Mordiane was reminded of a little woman, fair-haired, slight, with a somewhat melancholy
look, and a tender fashion of murmuring, "My darling," of which the mere remembrance made the
blood stir in his veins. She had loved him passionately, madly, for three months; then, becoming
pregnant in the absence of her husband, who was a governor of a colony, she had run away and
concealed herself, distracted with despair and terror, till the birth of the child, which Mordiane
carried off one summer's evening, and which they had not laid eyes on afterwards.

She died of consumption three years later, over there, in the colony of which her husband was
governor, and to which she had gone across to join him. And here, in front of him, was their
son, who was saying, in the metallic tones with which he rang out his closing words:

"This piece of ground, monsieur, is a rare chance--"

And Mordiane recalled the other voice, light as the touch of a gentle breeze, as it used to murmur:

"My darling, we shall never part--"

And he remembered that soft, deep, devoted glance in those eyes of blue, as he watched the
round eye, also blue, but vacant, of this ridiculous little man, who, for all that, bore a
resemblance to his mother.

Yes, he looked more and more like her every moment--like her in accent, in movement, in his
entire deportment--he was like her in the way an ape is like a man; but still he was hers;
he displayed a thousand external characteristics peculiar to her, though in an unspeakably
distorted, irritating, and revolting form.

The baron was galled, haunted as he was all of a sudden by this resemblance, horrible, each
instant growing stronger, exasperating, maddening, torturing him like a nightmare, like a weight
of remorse.

He stammered out:

"When can we look at this piece of ground together?"

"Why, to-morrow, if you like."

"Yes, to-morrow. At what hour?"

"One o'clock."

"All right."

The child he had met in the avenue appeared before the open door, exclaiming:

"Dada!"

There was no answer.

Mordiane had risen up with a longing to escape, to run off, which made his legs tremble. This
"dada" had hit him like a bullet. It was to him that it was addressed, it was intended for
him, this "dada," smelling of garlic--this "dada" of the South.

Oh! how sweet had been the perfume exhaled by her, his sweetheart of bygone days!

Duchoux saw him to the door.

"This house is your own?" said the baron.

"Yes, monsieur; I bought it recently. And I am proud of it. I am a child of accident, monsieur,
and I don't want to hide it; I am proud of it. I owe nothing to anyone; I am the son of my
own efforts; I owe everything to myself."

The little boy, who remained on the threshold, kept still exclaiming, though at some distance
away from them:

"Dada!"

Mordiane, shaking with a shivering fit, seized with panic, fled as one flies away from a great
danger.

"He is going to guess who I am, to recognize me," he thought. "He is going to take me in his
arms, and to call out to me, 'Dada,' while giving me a kiss perfumed with garlic."

"To-morrow, monsieur."

"To-morrow, at one o'clock."

The landau rolled over the white road.

"Coachman! to the railway-station!"

And he heard two voices, one far away and sweet, the faint, sad voice of the dead, saying:
"My darling," and the other sonorous, sing-song, frightful, bawling out, "Dada," just as people
bawl out, "Stop him!" when a thief is flying through the street.

Next evening, as he entered the club, the Count d'Etreillis said to him:

"We have not seen you for the last three days. Have you been ill?"

"Yes, a little unwell. I get headaches from time to time."

OLD AMABLE

PART I

The humid, gray sky seemed to weigh down on the vast brown plain. The odor of Autumn, the sad
odor of bare, moist lands, of fallen leaves, of dead grass, made the stagnant evening air more
thick and heavy. The peasants were still at work, scattered through the fields, waiting for
the stroke of the Angelus to call them back to the farm-houses, whose thatched roofs were visible
here and there through the branches of the leafless trees which protected the apple-gardens
against the wind.

At the side of the road, on a heap of clothes, a very small male child seated with its legs
apart, was playing with a potato, which he now and then let fall on his dress, while five women
bent down with their rumps in the air, were picking sprigs of colza in the adjoining plain.
With a slow continuous movement, all along the great cushions of earth which the plow had just
turned up, they drove in sharp wooden stakes, and then cast at once into the hole so formed
the plant, already a little withered, which sank on the side; then they covered over the root,
and went on with their work.

A man who was passing, with a whip in his hand, and wearing wooden shoes, stopped near the
child, took it up, and kissed it. Then one of the women rose up, and came across to him. She
was a big, red-haired girl, with large hips, waist, and shoulders, a tall Norman woman, with
yellow hair in which there was a blood-red tint.

She said, in a resolute voice:

"Here you are, Césaire--well?"

The man, a thin young fellow with a melancholy air, murmured:

"Well, nothing at all--always the same."

"He won't have it?"

"He won't have it."

"What are you going to do?"

"What do you say I ought to do?"

"Go see the curé."

"I will."

"Go at once!"

"I will."

And they stared at each other. He held the child in his arms all the time. He kissed it once
more, and then put it down again on the woman's clothes.

In the distance, between two farm-houses, could be seen a plow drawn by a horse, and driven
along by a man. They moved on very gently, the horse, the plow, and the laborer, under the
dim evening sky.

The woman went on:

"What, then, did your father say?"

"He said he would not have it."

"Why wouldn't he have it?"

The young man pointed towards the child whom he had just put back on the ground, then with
a glance he drew her attention to the man drawing the plow yonder there.

And he said emphatically:

"Because 'tis his--this child of yours."

The girl shrugged her shoulders, and in an angry tone said:

"Faith everyone knows it well--that it is Victor's. And what about it after all? I made a slip.
Am I the only woman that did? My mother also made a slip before me, and then yours did the
same before she married your dad! Who is it that hasn't made a slip in the country. I made
a slip with Victor, because he took advantage of me while I was asleep in the barn, it's true,
and afterwards it happened between us when I wasn't asleep. I certainly would have married
him if he weren't a servant-man. Am I a worse woman for that?"

The man said simply:

"As for me, I like you just as you are, with or without the child. 'Tis only my father that
opposes me. All the same, I'll see about settling the business."

She answered:

"Go to the curé at once."

"I'm going to him."

And he set forth with his heavy peasant's tread; while the girl, with her hands on her hips,
turned round to pick her colza.

In fact, the man who thus went off, Césaire Houlbréque, the son of deaf old Amable Houlbréque,
wanted to marry in spite of his father, Céleste Lévesque, who had a child by Victor Lecoq,
a mere laborer on his parent's farm, turned out of doors for this act.

Moreover, the hierarchy of caste does not exist in the fields, and if the laborer is thrifty,
he becomes, by taking a farm in his turn, the equal of his former master.

So Césaire Houlbrèque went off with his whip under his arm, brooding over his own thoughts,
and lifting up one after the other his heavy wooden shoes daubed with clay. Certainly he desired
to marry Céleste Lévesque. He wanted her with her child, because it was the woman he required.
He could not say why: but he knew it, he was sure of it. He had only to look at her to be convinced
of it, to feel himself quite jolly, quite stirred up, as it were turned into a pure animal
through contentment. He even found a pleasure in kissing the little boy, Victor's little boy,
because he had come out of her.

And he gazed, without hate, at the distant profile of the man who was driving his plow along
on the horizon's edge.

But old Amable did not want this marriage. He opposed it with the obstinacy of a deaf man,
with a violent obstinacy.

Césaire in vain shouted in his ear, in that ear which still heard a few sounds:

"I'll take good care of you, daddy. I tell you she's a good girl and strong, too, and also
thrifty."

The old man repeated:

"As long as I live, I won't see her your wife."

And nothing could get the better of him, nothing could bend his severity. One hope only was
left to Césaire. Old Amable was afraid of the curé through apprehension of the death which
he felt drawing nigh. He had not much fear of the good God nor of the Devil nor of Hell nor
of Purgatory, of which he had no conception, but he dreaded the priest, who represented to
him burial, as one might fear the doctors through horror of diseases. For the last eight days
Céleste, who knew this weakness of the old man, had been urging Césaire to go and find the
curé; but Césaire always hesitated, because he had not much liking for the black robe, which
represented to him hands always stretched out for collections for blessed bread.

However, he made up his mind, and he proceeded towards the presbytery, thinking in what manner
he would speak about his case.

The Abbe Raffin, a lively little priest, thin and never shaved, was awaiting his dinner-hour
while warming his feet at his kitchen-fire.

As soon as he saw the peasant entering, he asked, merely turning round his head:

"Well, Césaire, what do you want?"

"I'd like to have a talk with you, M. le Curé."

The man remained standing, intimidated, holding his cap in one hand and his whip in the other.

"Well, talk."

Césaire looked at the housekeeper, an old woman who dragged her feet while putting on the cover
for her master's dinner at the corner of the table in front of the window.

He stammered:

"'Tis--'tis a sort of confession."

Thereupon, the Abbe Raffin carefully surveyed his peasant. He saw his confused countenance,
his air of constraint, his wandering eyes, and he gave orders to the housekeeper in these words:

"Marie, go away for five minutes to your room, while I talk to Césaire."

The servant cast on the man an angry glance, and went away grumbling.

The clergyman went on:

"Come, now, spin out your yarn."

The young fellow still hesitated, looked down at his wooden shoes, moved about his cap, then,
all of a sudden, he made up his mind:

"Here it is: I want to marry Céleste Lévesque."

"Well, my boy, what's there to prevent you?"

"The father won't have it."

"Your father?"

"Yes, my father."

"What does your father say?"

"He says she has a child."

"She's not the first to whom that happened, since our Mother Eve."

"A child by Victor Lecoq, Anthione Loisel's servant-man."

"Ha! ha! So he won't have it?"

"He won't have it."

"What! not at all?"

"No, no more than an ass that won't budge an inch, saving your presence."

"What do you say to him yourself in order to make him decide?"

"I say to him that she's a good girl, and strong too, and thrifty also."

"And this does not make him settle it. So you want me to speak to him?"

"Exactly. You speak to him."

"And what am I to tell your father?"

"Why, what you tell people in your sermons to make them give you sous."

In the peasant's mind every effort of religion consisted in loosening the purses, in emptying
the pockets of men in order to fill the heavenly coffer. It was a kind of huge commercial establishment,
of which the curés were the clerks, sly, crafty clerks, sharp as anyone must be who does business
for the good God at the expense of the country people.

He knew full well that the priests rendered services, great services to the poorest, to the
sick and dying, that they assisted, consoled, counseled, sustained, but all this by means of
money, in exchange for white pieces, for beautiful glittering coins, with which they paid for
sacraments and masses, advice and protection, pardon of sins and indulgences, purgatory and
paradise accompanying the yearly income, and the generosity of the sinner.

The Abbe Raffin, who knew his man, and who never lost his temper, burst out laughing.

"Well, yes, I'll tell your father my little story; but you, my lad, you'll go there--to the
sermon."

Houlbrèque extended his hand in order to give a solemn assurance:

"On the word of a poor man, if you do this for me, I promise that I will."

"Come, that's all right. When do you wish me to go and find your father?"

"Why the sooner the better--to-night if you can."

"In half-an-hour, then, after supper."

"In half-an-hour."

"That's understood. So long, my lad."

"Good-bye till we meet again, Monsieur le Curé; many thanks."

"Not at all, my lad."

And Césaire Houlbrèque returned home, his heart relieved of a great weight.

He held on lease a little farm, quite small, for they were not rich, his father and he. Alone
with a female servant, a little girl of fifteen, who made the soup, looked after the fowls,
milked the cows and churned the butter, they lived hardly, though Césaire was a good cultivator.
But they did not possess either sufficient lands or sufficient cattle to gain more than the
indispensable.

The old man no longer worked. Sad, like all deaf people, crippled with pains, bent double,
twisted, he went through the fields leaning on his stick, watching the animals and the men
with a hard, distrustful eye. Sometimes, he sat down on the side of a ditch, and remained there
without moving for hours, vaguely pondering over the things that had engrossed his whole life,
the price of eggs and corn, the sun and the rain which spoil the crops or make them grow. And,
worn out by rheumatism, his old limbs still drank in the humidity of the soul, as they had
drunk in for the past sixty years, the moisture of the walls of his low thatched house covered
over with humid straw.

He came back at the close of the day, took his place at the end of the table, in the kitchen,
and when the earthen pot containing the soup had been placed before him, he caught it between
his crooked fingers, which seemed to have kept the round form of the jar, and, winter and summer,
he warmed his hands, before commencing to eat, so as to lose nothing, not even a particle of
the heat that came from the fire, which costs a great deal, neither one drop of soup into which
fat and salt have to be put, nor one morsel of bread, which comes from the wheat.

Then, he climbed up a ladder into a loft where he had his straw-bed, while his son slept below-stairs
at the end of a kind of niche near the chimney-piece and the servant shut herself up in a kind
of cave, a black hole which was formerly used to store the potatoes.

Césaire and his father scarcely ever talked to each other. From time to time only, when there
was a question of selling a crop or buying a calf, the young man took the advice of his father,
and making a speaking-trumpet of his two hands, he bawled out his views into his ear, and old
Amable either approved of them or opposed them in a slow, hollow voice that came from the depths
of his stomach.

So, one evening, Césaire, approaching him as if about to discuss the purchase of a horse or
a heifer, communicated to him at the top of his voice his intention to marry Céleste Lévesque.

Then, the father got angry. Why? On the score of morality? No, certainly. The virtue of a girl
is scarcely of importance in the country. But his avarice, his deep, fierce instinct for sparing,
revolted at the idea that his son should bring up a child which he had not begotten himself.
He had thought suddenly, in one second, on the soup the little fellow would swallow before
being useful in the farm. He had calculated all the pounds of bread, all the pints of cider,
that this brat would consume up to his fourteenth year; and a mad anger broke loose from him
against Césaire who had not bestowed a thought on all this.

He replied, with an usual strength of voice:

"Have you lost your senses?"

Thereupon, Césaire began to enumerate his reasons, to speak about Céleste's good points, to
prove that she would be worth a thousand times what the child would cost. But the old man doubted
these advantages, while he could have no doubts as to the child's existence; and he replied
with emphatic repetition, without giving any further explanation:

"I will not have it! I will not have it! As long as I live, this won't be done!"

And at this point they had remained for the last three months, without one or the other giving
in, resuming at least once a week the same discussion, with the same arguments, the same words,
the same gestures, and the same fruitlessness.

It was then that Céleste had advised Césaire to go and ask for the curé's assistance.

On arriving home the peasant found his father already seated at table, for he was kept late
by his visit to the presbytery.

They dined in silence face to face, ate a little bread and butter after the soup and drank
a glass of cider. Then they remained motionless in their chairs, with scarcely a glimmer of
light, the little servant-girl having carried off the candle in order to wash the spoons, wipe
the glasses, and cut beforehand the crusts of bread for next morning's breakfast.

There was a knock at the door, which was immediately opened; and the priest appeared. The old
man raised towards him an anxious eye full of suspicion, and, foreseeing danger, he was getting
ready to climb up his ladder when the Abbe Raffin laid his hand on his shoulder, and shouted
close to his temple:

"I want to have a talk with you, Father Amable."

Césaire had disappeared, taking advantage of the door being open. He did not want to listen,
so much was he afraid, and he did not want his hopes to crumble with each obstinate refusal
of his father. He preferred to learn the truth at once, good or bad, later on; and he went
out into the night. It was a moonless night, a starless night, one of those foggy nights when
the air seems thick with humidity. A vague odor of apples floated through the farm-yard, for
it was the season when the earliest apples were gathered, the "soon ripe" ones, as they are
called in the language of the peasantry. As Césaire passed along by the cattle-sheds, the warm
smell of living beasts sleeping on manure was exhaled through the narrow windows; and he heard
near the stables the stamping of horses who remained standing, and the sound of their jaws
tearing and bruising the hay on the racks.

He went straight ahead, thinking about Céleste. In this simple nature, whose ideas were scarcely
more than images generated directly by objects, thoughts of love only formulated themselves
by calling up before the mind the picture of a big red-haired girl, standing in a hollow road,
and laughing with her hands on her hips.

It was thus he saw her on the day when he first took a fancy for her. He had, however, known
her from infancy but never had he been so struck by her as on that morning. They had stopped
to talk for a few minutes, and then he went away; and as he walked along he kept repeating:

"Faith, she's a fine girl, all the same. 'Tis a pity she made a slip with Victor."

Till evening, he kept thinking of her, and also on the following morning.

When he saw her again, he felt something tickling the end of his throat, as if a cock's feather
had been driven through his mouth into his chest, and since then, every time he found himself
near her, he was astonished at this nervous tickling which always commenced again.

In three months, he made up his mind to marry her, so much did she please him. He could not
have said whence came this power over him, but he explained it by these words:

"I am possessed by her," as if he felt the desire of this girl within him with as much dominating
force as one of the powers of Hell. He scarcely bothered himself about her transgression. So
much the worse, after all; it did her no harm, and he bore no grudge against Victor Lecoq.

But if the curé was not going to succeed, what was he to do? He did not dare to think of it,
so much did this anxious question torment him.

He reached the presbytery and seated himself near the little gateway to await for the priest's
return.

He was there perhaps half-an-hour when he heard steps on the road, and he soon distinguished
although the night was very dark, the still darker shadow of the sautane.

He rose up, his legs giving way under him, not even venturing to speak, not daring to ask a
question.

The clergyman perceived him, and said gayly:

"Well, my lad, 'tis all right."

Césaire stammered:

"All right, 'tisn't possible."

"Yes, my lad, but not without trouble. What an old ass your father is!"

The peasant repeated:

"'Tisn't possible!"

"Why, yes. Come and look me up to-morrow at midday in order to settle about the publication
of the banns."

The young man seized the curé's hand. He pressed it, shook it, bruised it, while he stammered:

"True--true--true, Monsieur le Curé, on the word of an honest man, you'll see me to-morrow--at
your sermon."

PART II

The wedding took place in the middle of December. It was simple, the bridal pair not being
rich. Césaire, attired in new clothes, was ready since eight o'clock in the morning to go and
fetch his betrothed and bring her to the Mayor's office; but, it was too early, he seated himself
before the kitchen-table, and waited for the members of the family and the friends who were
to accompany him.

For the last eight days, it had been snowing, and the brown earth, the earth already fertilized
by the autumn savings had become livid, sleeping under a great sheet of ice.

It was cold in the thatched houses adorned with white caps; and the round apples in the trees
of the enclosures seemed to be flowering, powdered as they had been in the pleasant month of
their blossoming.

This day, the big northern clouds, the gray clouds laden with glittering rain had disappeared,
and the blue sky showed itself above the white earth on which the rising sun cast silvery reflections.

Césaire looked straight before him through the window, thinking of nothing happy.

The door opened, two women entered, peasant women in their Sunday clothes, the aunt and the
cousin of the bridegroom, then three men, his cousins, then a woman who was a neighbor. They
sat down on chairs, and they remained motionless and silent, the women on one side of the kitchen,
the men on the other suddenly seized with timidity, with that embarrassed sadness which takes
possession of people assembled for a ceremony. One of the cousins soon asked:

"It is not the hour--is it?"

Césaire replied:

"I am much afraid it is."

"Come on! Let us start," said another.

Those rose up. Then Césaire, whom a feeling of uneasiness had taken possession of, climbed
up the ladder of the loft to see whether his father was ready. The old man, always as a rule
an early riser, had not yet made his appearance. His son found him on his bed of straw, wrapped
up in his blanket, with his eyes open, and a malicious look in them.

He bawled out into his ear: "Come, daddy, get up. 'Tis the time for the wedding."

The deaf man murmured in a doleful tone:

"I can't, I have a sort of cold over me that freezes my back. I can't stir."

The young man, dumbfounded, stared at him, guessing that this was a dodge.

"Come, daddy, we must force you to go."

"Look here! I'll help you."

And he stooped towards the old man, pulled off his blanket, caught him by the arm and lifted
him up. But the old Amable began to whine:

"Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! What suffering! Ooh! I can't. My back is stiffened up. 'Tis the wind that must
have rushed in through this cursed roof."

"Well, you'll have no dinner, as I'm having a spread at Polyte's inn. This will teach you what
comes of acting mulishly."

And he hurried down the ladder, then set out for his destination, accompanied by his relatives
and guests.

The men had turned up their trousers so as not to soil the ends of them in the snow. The women
held up their petticoats and showed their lean ankles, their gray woolen stockings, and their
bony shanks resembling broomsticks. And they all moved forward balancing themselves on their
legs, one behind the other without uttering a word in a very gingerly fashion through caution
lest they might miss their way owing to flat, uniform uninterrupted sweep of snow that obliterated
the track.

As they approached some of the farm houses, they saw one or two persons waiting to join them,
and the procession went on without stopping, and wound its way forward, following the invisible
outlines of the road, so that it resembled a living chaplet with black beads undulating through
the white country side.

In front of the bride's door, a large group was stamping up and down the open space awaiting
the bridegroom. When he appeared they gave him a loud greeting; and presently, Céleste came
forth from her room, clad in a blue dress, her shoulders covered with a small red shawl, and
her head adorned with orange-flowers.

But everyone asked Césaire:

"Where's your father?" he replied with embarrassment.

"He couldn't move on account of the pains."

And the farmers tossed their heads with an incredulous and waggish air.

They directed their steps towards the Mayor's office. Behind the pair about to be wedded, a
peasant woman carried Victor's child, as if it were going to be baptized; and the male peasants,
in pairs, now went on, with arms linked, through the snow with the movements of a sloop at sea.

After having been united by the Mayor in the little municipal house, the pair were made one
by the curé, in his turn, in the modest house of the good God. He blessed their couplement
by promising them fruitfulness, then he preached to them on the matrimonial virtues, the simple
and healthful virtues of the country, work, concord, and fidelity, while the child, seized
with cold, began bawling behind the backs of the newly-married pair.

As soon as the couple reappeared on the threshold of the church, shots were discharged in the
moat of the cemetery. Only the barrels of the guns could be seen whence came forth rapid jets
of smoke; then a head could be seen gazing at the procession. It was Victor Lecoq celebrating
the marriage of his old sweetheart, wishing her happiness and sending her his good wishes with
explosions of powder. He had employed some friends of his, five or six laboring men, for these
salvoes of musketry. It could be seen that he carried the thing off well.

The repast was given in Polyte Cacheprune's inn. Twenty covers were laid in the great hall
where people dined on market-days, and the big leg of mutton turning before the spit, the fowl
browned under their own gravy, the chitterling roasting over the warm bright fire, filled the
house with a thick odor of coal sprinkled with fat--the powerful and heavy odor of rustic fare.

They sat down to table at midday, and speedily the soup flowed into the plates. The faces already
had brightened up; mouths opened to utter loud jokes, and eyes were laughing with knowing winks.
They were going to amuse themselves and no mistake.

The door opened, and old Amable presented himself. He seemed in bad humor and his face wore
a scowl, and he dragged himself forward on his sticks, whining at every step to indicate his
suffering. The sight of him caused great annoyance; but suddenly, his neighbor, Daddy Malivoire,
a big joker, who knew all the little tricks and ways of people, began to yell, just as Césaire
used to do, by making a speaking-trumpet of his hands.

"Hallo, my cute old boy, you have a good nose on you to be able to smell Polyte's cookery from
your own house!"

An immense laugh burst forth from the throats of those present. Malivoire, excited by his success,
went on:

"There is nothing for the rheumatics like a chitterling poultice! It keeps your belly warm,
along with a glass of three-six!"

The men uttered shouts, banged the table with their fists, laughed, bending on one side and
raising up their bodies again as if they were each working a pump. The women clucked like hens,
while the servants wriggled, standing against the walls. Old Amable was the only one that did
not laugh, and, without making any reply, waited till they made room for him.

They found a place for him in the middle of the table facing his daughter-in-law, and, as soon
as he was seated, he began to eat. It was his son who was paying, after all it was right he
should take his share. With each ladlefull of soup that fell into his stomach, with each mouthful
of bread or meat crushed under his gums, with each glass of cider or wine that flowed through
his gullet, he thought he was regaining something of his own property, getting back a little
of his money which all those gluttons were devouring, saving in fact, a portion of his own
means. And he ate in silence with the obstinacy of a miser who hides his coppers, with the
gloomy tenacity which he exhibited in former days in his persistent toils.

But all of a sudden he noticed at the end of the table Céleste's child on a woman's lap, and
his eye remained fixed on the little boy. He went on eating, with his glance riveted on the
youngster, into whose mouth the woman who minded him every now and then put a little stuffing
which he nibbled at. And the old man suffered more from every mouthful taken in by this little
grub than by all that the others swallowed.

The meal lasted till evening. Then everyone went back home.

Césaire raised up old Amable.

"Come, daddy, we must go home," said he.

And put the old man's two sticks in his hands

Césaire took her child in her arms, and they went on slowly through the pale night whitened
by the snow. The deaf old man, three-fourths tipsy, and even more malicious under the influence
of drink, persisted in not going on. Several times he even sat down with the object of making
his daughter-in-law catch cold, and he kept whining, without uttering a word, giving vent to
a sort of continuous groaning as if he were in pain.

When they reached home, he at once climbed up to his loft, while Césaire made a bed for the
child near the deep niche where he was going to lie down with his wife. But as the newly wedded
pair could not sleep immediately, they heard the old man for a long time moving about on his
bed of straw, and he even talked loudly several times, whether it was that he was dreaming
or that he let his thoughts escape through his mouth, in spite of himself, without being able
to keep them back, under the obsession of a fixed idea.

When he came down his ladder, next morning, he saw his daughter-in-law looking after the house-keeping.

She cried out to him:

"Come, daddy, hurry on! Here's some good soup."

And she placed at the end of the table the round black gray pot filled with smoking liquid.
He sat down without giving any answer, seized the hot jar, warmed his hands with it in his
customary fashion; and, as it was very cold, even pressed it against his breast, to try to
make a little of the living heat of the boiling water enter into him, into his old body stiffened
by so many winters.

Then he took his sticks and went out into the fields, covered with ice, till it was time for
dinner, for he had seen Céleste's youngster still asleep in a big soap-box.

He did not take his place in the household. He lived in the thatched house, as in bygone days,
but he seemed not to belong to it any longer, to be no longer interested in anything, to look
upon those people, his son, the wife, and the child as strangers whom he did not know, to whom
he never spoke.

The winter glided by. It was long and severe.

Then the early spring made the seeds sprout forth again, and the peasants once more, like laborious
ants, passed their days in the fields, toiling from morning till night, under the wind and
under the rain, along the furrows of brown earth which brought forth the bread of men.

The year promised well for the newly-married pair. The crops grew thick and heavy. There were
no slow frosts, and the apples bursting into bloom let fall into the grass their rosy white
snow, which promised a hail of fruit for the autumn.

Césaire toiled hard, rose early and left off work late, in order to save the expense of a laboring
man.

His wife said to him sometimes:

"You'll make yourself ill in the long run."

He replied:

"Certainly not. I'm a good judge."

Nevertheless, one evening he came home so fatigued that he had to go to bed without supper.
He rose up next morning at the usual hour, but he could not eat, in spite of his fast on the
previous night, and he had to come back to the house in the middle of the afternoon in order
to go to bed again. In the course of the night, he began to cough; he turned round on his straw
couch, feverish, with his forehead burning, his tongue dry, and his throat parched by a burning
thirst.

However, at daybreak, he went towards his grounds, but, next morning, the doctor had to be
sent for, and pronounced him very ill from an inflammation of the chest.

And he no longer quitted the obscure niche which he made use of to sleep in. He could be heard
coughing, panting, and tossing about in the interior of this hole. In order to see him, to
give his medicine, and to apply cupping-glasses, it was necessary to bring a candle towards
the entrance. Then one could see his narrow head with his long matted beard underneath a thick
lacework of spiders' webs, which hung and floated when stirred by the air. And the hands of
the sick man seemed dead under the dingy sheets.

Céleste watched him with restless activity, made him take physic, applied blister plasters
to him, and was constantly waving up and down the house, while the old Amable remained at the
side of his loft, watching at a distance the gloomy cave where his son was dying. He did not
come near him, through hatred of the wife, sulking like an ill-tempered dog.

Six more days passed, then, one morning, as Céleste, who was now asleep on the ground on two
loose bundles of straw, was going to see whether her man was better, she no longer heard his
rapid breathing from the interior of his low bed. Terror stricken, she asked:

"Well, Césaire, what sort of a night had you?"

He did not answer. She put out her hand to touch him, and the flesh on his face felt cold as
ice. She uttered a great cry, the long cry of a woman overpowered with fright. He was dead.

At this cry, the deaf old man appeared, at the top of his ladder, and when he saw Céleste rushing
to call for help, he quickly descended, felt in his turn the flesh of his son, and suddenly
realizing what had happened, went to shut the door from the inside, to prevent the wife from
reentering, and to resume possession of his dwelling, since his son was no longer living.

Then he sat down on a chair by the dead man's side.

Some of the neighbors arrived, called out, and knocked. He did not hear them. One of them broke
the glass of the window, and jumped into the room. Others followed. The door was opened again,
and Céleste reappeared, all in tears, with swollen face, and bloodshot eyes. Then, old Amable,
vanquished, without uttering a word, climbed back to his loft.

The funeral took place next morning, then, after the ceremony, the father-in-law and the daughter-in-law
found themselves alone in the farm-house with the child.

It was the usual dinner hour. She lighted the fire, divided the soup, and placed the plated
on the table, while the old man sat on the chair waiting without appearing to look at her.
When the meal was ready, she bawled out in his ear:

"Come, daddy, you must eat." He rose up, took his seat at the end of the table, emptied his
pot, masticated his bread and butter, drank his two glasses of cider, and then took himself off.

It was one of those warm days, one of those enjoyable days when life ferments, palpitates,
blooms all over the surface of the soil.

Old Amable pursued a little path across the fields. He watched the young wheat and the young
oats, thinking that his son was now under the clay, his poor boy. He went on at his customary
pace, dragging his legs after him in a limping fashion. And, as he was all alone in the plain,
all alone under the blue sky, in the midst of the growing crops, all alone with the larks,
which he saw hovering above his head, without hearing their light song, he began to weep while
he proceeded on his way.

Then he sat down close to a pool, and remained there till evening, gazing at the little birds
that came there to drink; then, as the night was falling, he returned to the house, supped
without saying a word, and climbed up to his loft.

And his life went on as in the past. Nothing was changed, except that his son, Césaire, slept
in the cemetery.

What could he, an old man, do? He could work no longer; he was now good for nothing except
to swallow the soup prepared by his daughter-in-law. And he did swallow it in silence, morning
and evening, watching with an eye of rage, the little boy also taking soup, right opposite
him, at the other side of the table. Then he went out, prowled about the fields in the fashion
of a vagabond, went hiding behind the barns, where he slept for an hour or two, as if he were
afraid of being seen, and then he came back at the approach of night.

But Céleste's mind began to be occupied by graver anxieties. The grounds needed a man to look
after them and work them. Somebody should be there always to go through the fields, not a mere
hired laborer, but a big cultivator, a master, who would know the business and have the care
of the farm. A lone woman could not manage the farming, watch the price of corn, and direct
the sale and purchase of cattle. Then ideas came into her head, simple practical ideas, which
she had turned over in her head at night. She could not marry again before the end of the year,
and it was necessary at once to take care of pressing interests, immediate interests.

Only one man could extricate her from embarrassment, Victor Lecoq, the father of her child.
He was strong and well acquainted with farming business; with a little money in his pocket,
he would make an excellent cultivator. She was aware of his skill, having known him while he
was working on his parents' farm.

So, one morning, seeing him passing along the road with a cart of dung, she went out to meet
him. When he perceived her, he drew up his horses and she said to him, as if she had met him
the night before:

"Good morrow, Victor--are you quite well, the same as ever?"

He replied:

"I'm quite well, the same as ever--and how are you?"

"Oh, I'd be all right, only that I'm alone in the house, which bothers me on account of the
grounds."

Then they remained chatting for a long time, leaning against the wheel of the heavy cart. The
man every now and then lifted up his cap to scratch his forehead, and began thinking, while
she, with flushed cheeks, went on talking warmly, told him about her views, her plans, her
projects for the future. In the end, he said, in a low tone:

"Yes, it can be done."

She opened her hand like a countryman clinching a bargain, and asked:

"Is it agreed?"

He pressed her outstretched hand.

"'Tis agreed."

"'Tis fixed, then, for Sunday next?"

"'Tis fixed for Sunday next."

"Well, good morning, Victor."

"Good morning, Madame Houlbrèque."

PART III

This Sunday was the day of the village festival, the annual festival in honor of the patron
saint, which in Normandy is called the assembly.

For the last eight days quaint looking vehicles, in which lay the wandering families of fancy
fair owners, lottery managers, keepers of shooting galleries, and other forms of amusement
or exhibitors of curiosities, which the peasants call "monster-makers," could be seen coming
along the roads drawn slowly by gray or chestnut horses.

The dirty caravans with their floating curtains accompanied by a melancholy-looking dog, who
trotted, with his head down, between the wheels, drew up one after the other, in the green
fronting the Mayor's office. Then a tent was erected in front of each traveling abode, and
inside this tent could be seen through the holes in the canvas glittering things, which excited
the envy or the curiosity of the village brats.

As soon as the morning of the fête arrived, all the booths were opened, displaying their splendors
of glass or porcelain; and the peasants on their way to mass, regarded already with looks of
satisfaction, these modest shops, which, nevertheless, they saw again each succeeding year.

From the early part of the afternoon, there was a crowd on the green. From every neighboring
village, the farmers arrived, shaken along with their wives and children in the two-wheeled
open cars, which made a rattling sound as they oscillated like cradles. They unyoked at their
friends' houses, and the farm-yards were filled with strange looking traps, gray, high, lean,
crooked, like long clawed creatures from the depths of the sea. And each family, with the youngsters
in front, and the grown up ones behind, came to the assembly with tranquil steps, smiling countenances,
and open hands, big hands, red and bony, accustomed to work and apparently tired of their temporary
rest.

A tumbler played on a trumpet. The barrel-organ accompanying the wooden horses sent through
the air its shrill jerky notes. The lottery-wheel made a whirring sound like that of cloth
being torn, and every moment the crack of the rifle could be heard. And the slowly moving throng
passed on quietly in front of the booths after the fashion of paste in a fluid condition, with
the motions of a flock of sheep and the awkwardness of heavy animals rushing along at haphazard.

The girls, holding one another's arms, in groups of six or eight, kept bawling out songs; the
young men followed them making jokes, with their caps over their ears, and their blouses stiffened
with starch, swollen out like blue balloons.

The whole country-side was there--masters, laboring men, and women-servants.

Old Amable himself, wearing his old-fashioned green frock-coat, had wished to see the assembly,
for he never failed to attend on such an occasion.

He looked at the lotteries, stopped in front of the shooting galleries to criticise the shots,
and interested himself specially in a very simple game, which consisted in throwing a big wooden
ball into the open mouth of a mannikin carved and painted on a board.

Suddenly, he felt a tap on his shoulder. It was Daddy Malivoire, who exclaimed:

"Ha, daddy! Come and have a glass of spirits."

And they sat down before the table of a rustic inn placed in the open air.

They drank one glass of spirits, then two, then three; and old Amable once more wandered through
the assembly. His thoughts became slightly confused, he smiled without knowing why, he smiled
in front of the lotteries, in front of the wooden horses, and especially in front of the killing
game. He remained there a long time, filled with delight when he saw a holidaymaker knocking
down the gendarme or the curé, two authorities which he instinctively distrusted. Then he went
back to the inn, and drank a glass of cider to cool himself. It was late, night came on. A
neighbor came to warn him:

"You'll get back home late for the stew, daddy."

Then he set out on his way to the farm house. A soft shadow, the warm shadow of a spring night,
was slowly descending on the earth.

When he reached the front door, he thought he saw through the window which was lighted up,
two persons in the house. He stopped, much surprised, then he went in, and he saw Victor Lecoq
seated at the table, with a plate filled with potatoes before him, taking his supper in the
very same place where his son had sat.

And, all of a sudden, he turned round, as if he wanted to go away. The night was very dark
now. Céleste started up, and shouted at him:

"Come quick, daddy! Here's some good stew to finish off the assembly with."

Thereupon he complied through inertia, and sat down watching in turn the man, the woman and
the child. Then, he began to eat quietly as on ordinary days.

Victor Lecoq seemed quite at home, talked from time to time to Céleste, took up the child in
his lap, and kissed him. And Céleste again served him with food, poured out drink for him,
and appeared content while speaking to him. Old Amable followed them with a fixed look without
hearing what they were saying.

When he had finished supper (and he had scarcely eaten anything, so much did he feel his heart
wrung) he rose up, and in place of ascending to his loft as he did every night he opened the
yard door, and went out into the open air.

When he had gone, Céleste, a little uneasy, asked:

"What is he going to do?"

Victor replied in an indifferent tone:

"Don't bother yourself. He'll come back when he's tired."

Then, she saw after the house, washed the plates and wiped the table, while the man quietly
took off his clothes. Then he slipped into the dark and hollow bed in which she had slept with
Césaire.

The yard door reopened, old Amable again presented himself. As soon as he had come in, he looked
round on every side with the air of an old dog on the scent. He was in search of Victor Lecoq.
As he did not see him, he took the candle off the table, and approached the dark niche in which
his son had died. In the interior of it he perceived the man lying under the bed clothes and
already asleep. Then the deaf man noiselessly turned round, put back the candle, and went out
into the yard.

Céleste had finished her work. She put her son into his bed, arranged everything, and waited
her father-in-law's return before lying down herself beside Victor.

She remained sitting on a chair, without moving her hands, and with her eyes fixed on vacancy.

As he did not come back she murmured in a tone of impatience and annoyance:

"This good-for-nothing old man will burn four sous' worth of candle on us."

Victor answered her from under the bed clothes.

"'Tis over an hour since he went out. We'd want to see whether he fell asleep on the bench
before the door."

She declared:

"I'm going there."

She rose up, took the light, and went out, making a shade of her hand in order to see through
the darkness.

She saw nothing in front of the door, nothing on the bench, nothing on the dung pit, where
the old man used sometimes to sit in hot weather.

But, just as she was on the point of going in again, she chanced to raise her eyes towards
the big apple tree, which sheltered the entrance to the farm house, and suddenly she saw two
feet belonging to a man who was hanging at the height of her face.

She uttered terrible cries:

"Victor! Victor! Victor!"

He ran out in his shirt. She could not utter another word, and turning round her head, so as
not to see, she pointed towards the tree with her outstretched arm.

Not understanding what she meant, he took the candle in order to find out, and in the midst
of the foliage lit up from below, he saw old Amable hanged high up by the neck with a stable-halter.

A ladder was fixed at the trunk of the apple tree.

Victor rushed to look for a bill-hook, climbed up the tree, and cut the halter. But the old
man was already cold, and he put out his tongue horribly with a frightful grimace.

MAGNETISM

It was at the close of a dinner-party of men, at the hour of endless cigars and incessant sips
of brandy, amidst the smoke and the torpid warmth of digestion and the slight confusion of
heads generated by such a quantity of eatables and by the absorption of so many different liquors.

Those present were talking about magnetism, about Donato's tricks, and about Doctor Charcot's
experiences. All of a sudden, those men, so skeptical, so happy-go-lucky, so indifferent to
religion of every sort, began telling stories about strange occurrences, incredible things
which nevertheless had really happened, they contended, falling back into superstitions, beliefs,
clinging to these last remnants of the marvelous, becoming devotees of this mystery of magnetism,
defending it in the name of science. There was only one person who smiled, a vigorous young
fellow, a great pursuer of girls in the town, and a hunter also of frisky matrons, in whose
mind there was so much incredulity about everything that he would not even enter upon a discussion
of such matters.

He repeated with a sneer:

"Humbug! humbug! humbug! We need not discuss Donato, who is merely a very smart juggler. As
for M. Charcot, who is said to be a remarkable man of science, he produces on me the effect
of those story-tellers of the school of Edgar Poe, who end by going mad through constantly
reflecting on queer cases of insanity. He has set forth some nervous phenomena, which are unexplained
and inexplicable; he makes his way into that unknown region which men explore every day, and
not being able to comprehend what he sees, he remembers perhaps too well the explanations of
certain mysteries given by speaking on these subjects, that would be quite a different thing
from your repetition of what he says."

The words of the unbeliever were listened to with a kind of pity, as if he had blasphemed in
the midst of an assembly of monks.

One of these gentlemen exclaimed:

"And yet miracles were performed in former days."

But the other replied: "I deny it. Why cannot they be performed any longer?"

Thereupon, each man referred to some fact, or some fantastic presentiment, or some instance
of souls communicating with each other across space, or some case of secret influences produced
by one being or another. And they asserted, they maintained that these things had actually
occurred, while the skeptic went on repeating energetically:

"Humbug! humbug! humbug!"

At last he rose up, threw away his cigar, and with his hands in his pockets, said: "Well, I,
too, am going to relate to you two stories, and then I will explain them to you. Here they are:

"In the little village of Etretat, the men, who are all seafaring folk, go every year to Newfoundland
to fish for cod. Now, one night the little son of one of these fishermen woke up with a start,
crying out that his father was dead. The child was quieted, and again he woke up exclaiming
that his father was drowned. A month later the news came that his father had, in fact, been
swept off the deck of his smack by a billow. The widow then remembered how her son had wakened
up and spoken of his father's death. Everyone said it was a miracle, and the affair caused
a great sensation. The dates were compared, and it was found that the accident and the dream
had very nearly coincided, whence they drew the conclusion that they had happened on the same
night and at the same hour. And there is the mystery of magnetism."

The story-teller stopped suddenly.

Thereupon, one of those who had heard him, much affected by the narrative, asked:

"And can you explain this?"

"Perfectly monsieur. I have discovered the secret. The circumstance surprised me and even embarrassed
me very much; but, I, you see, do not believe on principle. Just as others begin by believing,
I begin by doubting; and when I don't at all understand, I continue to deny that there can
be any telegraphic communication between souls, certain that my own sagacity will be enough
to explain it. Well, I have gone on inquiring into the matter, and I have ended, by dint of
questioning all the wives of the absent seamen, in convincing myself that not a week passed
without one of themselves or their children dreaming and declaring when they woke up that the
father was drowned. The horrible and continual fear of this accident makes them always talk
about it. Now, if one of these frequent predictions coincides, by a very simple chance, with
the death of the person referred to, people at once declare it to be a miracle; for they suddenly
lose sight of all the other predictions of misfortune that have remained unconfirmed. I have
myself known fifty cases where the persons who made the prediction forgot all about it in a
week afterwards. But, if in fact the man was dead, then the recollection of the thing is immediately
revived, and people will be ready to believe in the intervention of God, according to some,
and magnetism, according to others."

One of the smokers remarked:

"What you say is right enough; but what about your second story?"

"Oh! my second story is a very delicate matter to relate. It is to myself it happened, and
so I don't place any great value on my own view of the matter. One is never a good judge in
a case where he is one of the parties concerned. At any rate, here it is:

"Among my acquaintances in society there was a young woman on whom I had never bestowed a thought,
whom I had never even looked at attentively, never taken any notice of, as the saying is.

"I classed her among the women of no importance, though she was not quite bad-looking; in fact,
she appeared to me to possess eyes, a nose, a mouth, some sort of hair--just a colorless type
of countenance. She was one of those beings on whom one only thinks by accident, without taking
any particular interest in the individual, and who never excites desire.

"Well, one night, as I was writing some letters by my own fireside before going to bed, I was
conscious, in the midst of that train of sensual images that sometimes float before one's brain
in moments of idle reverie, while I held the pen in my hand, of a kind of light breath passing
into my soul, a little shudder of the heart, and immediately, without reason, without any logical
connection of thought, I saw distinctly, saw as If I touched her, saw from head to foot, uncovered,
this young woman for whom I had never cared save in the most superficial manner when her name
happened to recur to my mind. And all of a sudden I discovered in her a heap of qualities which
I had never before observed, a sweet charm, a fascination that made me languish; she awakened
in me that sort of amorous uneasiness which sends me in pursuit of a woman. But I did not remain
thinking of her long. I went to bed and was soon asleep. And I dreamed.

"You have all had these strange dreams which render you masters of the impossible, which open
to you doors that cannot be passed through, unexpected joys, impenetrable arms?

"Which of us in these agitated, exciting, palpitating slumbers, has not held, clasped, embraced,
possessed with an extraordinary acuteness of sensation, the woman with whom our minds were
occupied? And have you ever noticed what superhuman delight these good fortunes of dreams bestow
upon us? Into what mad intoxication they cast you! with what passionate spasms they shake you!
and with what infinite, caressing, penetrating tenderness they fill your heart for her whom
you hold fainting and hot in that adorable and bestial illusion which seems so like reality!

"All this I felt with unforgettable violence. This woman was mine, so much mine that the pleasant
warmth of her skin remained between my fingers, the odor of her skin remained in my brain,
the taste of her kisses remained on my lips, the sound of her voice lingered in my ears, the
touch of her clasp still clung to my side, and the burning charm of her tenderness still gratified
my senses long after my exquisite but disappointing awakening.

"And three times the same night I had a renewal of my dream.

"When the day dawned she beset me, possessed me, haunted my brain and my flesh to such an extent
that I no longer remained one second without thinking of her.

"At last, not knowing what to do, I dressed myself and went to see her. As I went up the stairs
to her apartment, I was so much overcome by emotion that I trembled, and my heart panted; I
was seized with vehement desire from head to foot.

"I entered the apartment. She rose up the moment she heard my name pronounced; and suddenly
our eyes met in a fixed look of astonishment.

"I sat down.

"I uttered in a faltering tone some commonplaces which she seemed not to hear. I did not know
what to say or to do. Then, abruptly, I flung myself upon her; seizing her with both arms;
and my entire dream was accomplished so quickly, so easily, so madly, that I suddenly began
to doubt whether I was really awake. She was, after this, my mistress for two years."

"What conclusion do you draw from it?" said a voice.

The story-teller seemed to hesitate.

"The conclusion I draw from it--well, by Jove, the conclusion is that it was just a coincidence!
And, in the next place, who can tell? Perhaps it was some glance of hers which I had not noticed
and which came back that night to me--one of those mysterious and unconscious evocations of
memory which often bring before us things ignored by our own consciousness, unperceived by
our minds!"

"Let that be just as you wish it," said one of his table companions, when the story was finished,
"but if you don't believe in magnetism after that, you are an ungrateful fellow, my dear boy!"

