It has been very correctly remarked, that, in order to bring a disaster to the public notice,
it must be emphasized by loss of life. The Ashtabula bridge fell, and killed over eighty persons;
and a storm of indignation swept over the country, from one end to the other. No language was
severe enough to apply to the managers of the Lake Shore Railroad; but if that very bridge
had fallen under a freight-train, and no one had been injured, the occurrence would have been
dismissed with a paragraph, if, indeed, it had received even that recognition. In February,
1879, a span one hundred and ten feet long of an iron bridge on the Chicago and Alton Railroad
at Wilmington fell as a train of empty coal-cars was passing over it, and three cars were precipitated
into the river, a distance of over thirty feet. No one was injured. Not a word of comment was
ever made in regard to this occurrence. Suppose, that, in place of empty coal-cars, the train
had consisted of loaded passenger-cars, and that one hundred persons had been killed. We know
very well what the result would have been. Is not the company just as much to blame in one
case as the other? On the night of the 8th of November, 1879, one span of the large bridge
over the Missouri at St. Charles gave way as a freight-train was crossing it, and seventeen
loaded stock-cars fell a distance of eighty feet into the river. Two brakemen and two drovers
were killed. This bridge, says the only account that appeared in the papers, did not break
apparently, for the whole span "went down" with the cars upon it. It could hardly make much
difference to the four men who were killed, whether the bridge broke down, or "went" down.
Not a word of comment was ever made in the papers outside of Missouri in regard to this disaster.
Suppose, that, in place of seventeen stock-cars, half a dozen passenger-cars had fallen from
a height of eighty feet into the river, and that, in place of killing two brakemen and two
drovers, two or three hundred passengers had been killed. Is not the public just as much concerned
in one case as in the other?

Suppose that a bridge now standing is exactly as unsafe as the Ashtabula bridge was the day
before it fell, would it be possible to awaken public attention enough to have it examined?
Probably not. About two years ago an attempt was made to induce one of the leading dailies
in this country to expose a wretchedly unsafe bridge in New England. The editor declined, on
the ground that the matter was not of sufficient interest for his readers; but less than a
month afterwards he devoted three columns of his paper to a detailed account of a bridge disaster
in Scotland, and asked why it was that such things must happen, and if there was no way of
determining in advance whether a bridge was safe, or not?

This editor certainly would not maintain, that, in itself, it was more important to describe
a disaster after it had occurred than to endeavor to prevent the occurrence; but, as a business
man, he knew perfectly well that his patrons would read an account giving all of the sickening
detail of a terrible catastrophe, while few, if any, would wade through a dry discussion of
the means for protecting the public from just such disasters. The public is always very indignant
with the effect, but does not care to trouble itself with the cause; but the effect never will
be prevented until the cause is controlled; and the sooner the public understands that the
cause is in its own hands, to be controlled, or not, as it chooses, the sooner we shall have
a remedy for the fearful disasters which are altogether too common in the United States.

In a country where government controls all matters on which the public safety depends, and
where no bridge over which the public is to pass is allowed to be built except after the plans
have been approved by competent authority, where no work can be executed except under the rigid
inspection of the best experts, nor opened to the public until it has been officially tested
and accepted, it makes little or no difference whether the public is informed, or not, upon
these matters; but in a country like the United States, where any man may at any time open
a shop for the manufacture of bridges, whether he knows any thing about the business, or not,
and is at liberty to use cheap and insufficient material, and where public officers are always
to be found ready to buy such bridges, simply because the first cost is low, and to place them
in the public ways, it makes a good deal of difference. There is at present in this country
absolutely no law, no control, no inspection, which can prevent the building and the use of
unsafe bridges; and there never will be until the people who make the laws see the need of
such control.

There is no one thing more important in this matter than that we should be able to fix precisely
the blame in case of disaster upon some person to whom the proper punishment may be applied.
If every railway director, or town or county officer, knew that he was held personally accountable
for the failure of any bridge in his charge, we should soon have a decided improvement in these
structures. If we could show that a certain bridge in a large town had been for a long time
old, rotten, worn out, and liable at any moment to tumble down, and could show in addition,
that the public officers having charge of such a bridge knew this to be the case, and still
allowed the public to pass over it, we can see at once, that, in case of disaster, the blame
would be clearly located, and the action for damages would be short and decisive. Once let
a town have heavy damages to pay, and let it know at the same time that the town officers are
clearly accountable for the loss, and it is possible that it would be willing to adopt some
system that should prevent the recurrence of such an outlay.

To see what may be accomplished by an efficient system of public inspection, it is necessary
to know something in regard to the structures to be inspected. We have now in common use in
this country, both upon our roads and our railroads, bridges made entirely of iron, bridges
of wood and iron combined, and occasionally, though not often nowadays, a bridge entirely of
wood; and these structures are to be seen of a great variety of patterns, of all sizes, and
in every stage of preservation. Of late so great has been the demand for bridge-work, that
this branch of engineering has become a trade by itself; and we find immense works fitted up
with an endless variety of the most admirably adapted machine-tools devoted exclusively to
the making of bridges of wood, iron, steel, or all combined. As in all division of labor, the
result of this specialization has been to improve the quality of the product, to lessen the
cost, and to increase the demand, until many of our large firms reckon the length of bridging
which they have erected by miles instead of feet. As usual, however, in such cases, unprincipled
adventurers are not wanting, who, taking advantage of a great demand, do not hesitate to fit
up cheap shops, to buy poor material, and to flood the market with a class of bridges made
with a single object in view, viz., to sell, relying upon the ignorance--or something worse--of
public officials for custom. Not a year passes in which some of these wretched traps do not
tumble down, and cause a greater or less loss of life, and at the same time, with uninformed
people, throw discredit on the whole modern system of bridge-building. This evil affects particularly
highway bridges. The ordinary county commissioner or selectman considers himself amply competent
to contract for a bridge of wood or iron, though he may never have given a single day of thought
to the matter before his appointment to office. The result is, that we see all over the country
a great number of highway bridges which have been sold by dishonest builders to ignorant officials,
and which are on the eve of falling, and await only an extra large crowd of people, a company
of soldiers, a procession, or something of the sort, to break down.

Not many years ago, a new highway bridge of iron was to be made over one of the principal rivers
in New England. The county commissioners desired a well-known engineer, especially noted as
a bridge-builder, to superintend the work, in order to see that it was properly executed. The
engineer, after inspection of the plans, told the commissioners plainly that the design was
defective, and would not make a safe bridge; and that, unless it was materially changed, he
would have nothing to do with it. The bridge, however, was a cheap one, and, as such, commended
itself to the commissioners, who proceeded to have it erected according to the original plan;
and these same commissioners now point to that bridge, which has not yet fallen, but which
is liable to do so at any time, as a complete vindication of their judgment, so called, as
opposed to that of the engineer who had spent his life in building bridges.

An impression exists in the minds of many persons, that it is purely a matter of opinion whether
a bridge is safe, or not. In very many cases, however,--perhaps in most,--it is not at all
a matter of opinion, but a matter of fact and of arithmetic. The whole question always comes
to this: Is the material in this bridge of good quality? Is there enough of it? Is it correctly
disposed, and properly put together? With given dimensions, and knowing the load to be carried,
it is a matter of the very simplest computation to fix the size of each member. We know what
one square inch of iron will hold, and we know, also, the total number of pounds to be sustained;
and it is no matter of opinion, but one of simple division, how many times one will go into
the other.

But it may be asked, Can the precise load which is coming upon any structure be exactly fixed?
are not the circumstances under which bridges are loaded very different? Bridges in different
localities are certainly subjected to very different loads, and under very different conditions;
but the proper loads to be provided for have been fixed by the best authority for all cases
within narrow enough limits for all practical purposes. Few persons are aware of the weight
of a closely packed crowd of people. Mr. Stoney of Dublin, one of the best authorities, packed
30 persons upon an area of a little less than 30 square feet; and at another time he placed
58 persons upon an area of 57 square feet, the resulting load in the two cases being very nearly
150 pounds to the square foot. "Such cramming," says Mr. Stoney, "could scarcely occur in practice,
except in portions of a strongly excited crowd; but I have no doubt that it does occasionally
so occur." "In my own practice," he continues, "I adopt 100 pounds per square foot as the standard
working-load distributed uniformly over the whole surface of a public bridge, and 140 pounds
per square foot for certain portions of the structure, such, for example, as the foot-paths
of a bridge crossing a navigable river in a city, which are liable to be severely tried by
an excited crowd during a boat-race, or some similar occasion." Tredgold and Rankine estimate
the weight of a dense crowd at 120 pounds per square foot. Mr. Brunel used 100 pounds in his
calculations for the Hungerford Suspension Bridge. Mr. Drewry, an old but excellent authority,
observes that any body of men marching in step at from 3 to 3-1/2 miles an hour will strain
a bridge at least as much as double the same weight at rest; and he adds, "In prudence, not
more than one-sixth the number of infantry that would fill a bridge should be permitted to
march over it in step." Mr. Roebling says, in speaking of the Niagara Falls Suspension Bridge,
"In my opinion, a heavy train, running at a speed of 20 miles an hour, does less injury to
the structure than is caused by 20 heavy cattle under full trot. Public processions marching
to the sound of music, or bodies of soldiers keeping regular step, will produce a still more
injurious effect."

Evidently a difference should be made in determining the load for London Bridge and the load
for a highway bridge upon a New-England country road in a thinly settled district. A bridge
that is strong enough is just as good and just as safe as one that is ten times stronger, and
even better; for in a large bridge, if we make it too strong, we make it at the same time too
heavy. The weight of the structure itself has to be sustained, and this part of the load is
a perpetual drag on the material.

In 1875 the American Society of Civil Engineers, in view of the repeated bridge disasters in
this country, appointed a committee to report upon The Means of Averting Bridge Accidents.
We might expect, when a society composed of some hundreds of our best engineers selects an
expert committee of half a dozen men, that the best authority would be pretty well represented;
and such was eminently the case. It would be impossible to have combined a greater amount of
acknowledged talent, both theoretical and practical, with a wider and more valuable experience
than this committee possessed. The first point taken up in the report is the determination
of the loads for which both railroad and highway bridges should be proportioned. In regard
to highway bridges, a majority of the committee reported that for such structures the standard
loads should not be less than as shown in the following table:--

  +-------------------+----------+----------+----------+
  |                   |    POUNDS PER SQUARE FOOT.     |
  |       SPAN.       +----------+----------+----------+
  |                   | CLASS A. | CLASS B. | CLASS C. |
  +-------------------+----------+----------+----------+
  |  60 feet and less |   100    |   100    |    70    |
  |  60 to 100 feet   |    90    |    75    |    60    |
  | 100 to 200 feet   |    75    |    60    |    50    |
  | 200 to 400 feet   |    60    |    50    |    40    |
  +-------------------+----------+----------+----------+

Class A includes city and suburban bridges, and those over large rivers, where great concentration
of weight is possible. Class B denotes highway bridges in manufacturing districts having well-ballasted
roads. Class C refers to ordinary country-road bridges, where travel is less frequent and lighter.
A minority of the committee modified the table above by making the loads a little larger. The
whole committee agreed in making the load per square foot less as the span is greater, which
is, of course, correct. It would seem eminently proper to make a difference between a bridge
which carries the continuous and heavy traffic of a large city, and one which is subjected
only to the comparatively light and infrequent traffic of a country road. At the same time
it should not be forgotten, that, in a large part of the United States, a bridge may be loaded
by ten, fifteen, or even twenty pounds per square foot by snow and ice alone, and that the
very bridges which from their location we should be apt to make the lightest, are those which
would be most likely to be neglected, and not relieved from a heavy accumulation of snow. In
view of the above, and remembering that a moving load produces a much greater strain upon a
bridge than one which is at rest, we may be sure, that, as the committee above referred to
recommend, the loads should not be less than those given in the table. We can easily see that
in special cases they should be more.

There is another point in regard to loading a highway bridge, which is to be considered. It
often happens that a very heavy load is carried over such bridges upon a single truck, thus
throwing a heavy and concentrated load upon each point as it passes. Mr. Stoney states that
a wagon with a crank-shaft of the British ship "Hercules," weighing about forty-five tons,
was refused a passage over Westminster iron bridge, for fear of damage to the structure, and
had to be carried over Waterloo bridge, which is of stone; and he says that in many cases large
boilers, heavy forgings, or castings reach as high as twelve tons upon a single wheel. The
report of the American Society of Civil Engineers, above referred to, advises that the floor
system be strong enough to carry the following loads upon four wheels: Class A, 24 tons; Class
B, 16 tons; Class C, 8 tons; though it is stated that these do not include the extraordinary
loads sometimes taken over highways. "This provision for local loads," says Mr. Boller, one
of the committee, "may seem extreme; but the jar and jolt of heavy, spring-less loads come
directly on all parts of the flooring at successive intervals, and admonish us that any errors
should be on the safe side."

To pass now to railroad bridges, we find here a very heavy load coming upon the structure in
a sudden, and often very violent, manner. Experiment and observation both indicate that a rapidly
moving load produces an effect equal to double the same load at rest. This effect is seen much
more upon short bridges, where the moving load is large in proportion to the weight of the
bridge, than upon long spans, where the weight of the bridge itself is considerable. The actual
load upon a short bridge is also more per foot than upon a long one, because the locomotive,
which is much heavier than an equal length of cars, may cover the whole of a short span, but
only a part of a longer one. The largest engines in use upon our railroads weigh from 75,000
to 80,000 pounds on a wheel-base of not over twelve feet in length, or 2,800 pounds per foot
for the whole length of the engine, and from 20,000 to 24,000 pounds on a single pair of wheels.
The heaviest coal-trains will weigh nearly a ton to the foot, ordinary freight-trains from
1,600 to 1,800 pounds, and passenger-trains from 1,000 to 1,200 pounds per foot. Any bridge
is liable to be traversed by two heavy freight-engines followed by a load of three-quarters
of a ton to the foot; so that if we proportion a bridge to carry 3,000 pounds per foot for
the total engine length, and one ton per foot for the rest of the bridge, bearing in mind that
any one point may be called upon to sustain 24,000 pounds, and regarding the increase of strain
upon short spans due to high speeds, we have the following loads for different spans exclusive
of the weight of the bridge:--

  +---------+-----------------+
  |  SPAN.  |  LBS. PER FOOT. |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |   12    |      7,000      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |   15    |      6,000      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |   20    |      4,800      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |   25    |      4,000      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |   30    |      3,600      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |   40    |      3,200      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |   50    |      3,000      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |  100    |      2,800      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |  200    |      2,600      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |  300    |      2,500      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |  400    |      2,450      |
  +---------+-----------------+
  |  500    |      2,400      |
  +---------+-----------------+

The above does not vary essentially from the English practice, and is substantially the same
as given by the committee of the American Society of Civil Engineers.

The load which any bridge will be required to carry being determined, and the general plan
and dimensions fixed, the several strains upon the different members follow by a simple process
of arithmetic, leaving to be determined the actual dimensions of the various parts, a matter
which depends upon the power of different kinds of material to resist different strains. This
brings us to the exceedingly important subject of the nature and strength of materials.

It has been said that we know what one square inch of iron will hold. Like the question of
loads above examined, this is a matter which has been settled, at any rate within very narrow
limits, by the experience of many years of both European and American engineers. A bar of the
best wrought-iron an inch square will not break under a tensile strain of less than sixty thousand
pounds. Only a small part of this, however, is to be used in practice. A bar or beam may be
loaded with a greater weight applied as a permanent or dead-load than would be safe as a rolling
or moving weight. A load may be brought upon any material in an easy and gradual manner, so
as not to damage it; while the same load could not be suddenly and violently applied without
injury. The margin for safety should be greater with a material liable to contain hidden defects,
than with one which is not so; and it should be greater with any member of a bridge which is
subjected to several different kinds of strain, than for one which has to resist only a single
form of strain. Respect, also, should be had to the frequency with which any part is subjected
to strain from a moving load, as this will influence its power of endurance. The rule in structures
having so important an office to perform as railroad or highway bridges, should be, in all
cases, absolute safety under all conditions.

