THE OAKDALE AFFAIR

By Edgar Rice Burroughs

Chapter One [And only chapter ED.]

The house on the hill showed lights only upon the first floor--in the spacious reception hall,
the dining room, and those more or less mysterious purlieus thereof from which emanate disagreeable
odors and agreeable foods. 

"Our men on the town hall will have to smear a lot of paper if the want to get way, "said the
good Hill one morning - it was the third day of detention Caspar Hauser - to Professor Daumer,
who wanted to visit the stranger, "I certainly know all Tricks of the lumpen people, but if the
guy wants a malingerer, I hang myself. "

Hill blocked, and Professor Daumer entered the chamber. As usual, the frightened prisoners but
when the new arrival time in the space was, it appeared to Caspar
Hauser no longer perceive and watched, fascinated in the dull ignorance,
down quietly to himself.

As it happened, as Hill had opened the shutters, that the boy, perhaps as never before in his life, the tethered
view raised him from the silent, steady Wegkehrte fear, which might accommodate the interior
of his chest and sweep it out the window let in the sunny outdoors, where tile roof to roof tiles on a
steep and glühendrot Background of bluish twilight meadows and forests painted. He stretched out his
hand; surprise and joyless wonder twisted his lips, he reluctantly took his arm in the sparkling painting,
as if to touch the colorful mess out there with fingers, and when he convinced himself , that
it was nothing, something distant, deceptive, intangible, since eclipsed
his Face, and he turned away indignant and disappointed.

On the same afternoon the mayor Binder Daumer's house and informed
in the course a conversation with the boulder that the gentlemen from
the city council rather hostile and incredulous voted as sympathetic
to these were.

"Incredulous?" Said Daumer surprised, "disbelief in what relationship?"

"Well, it is thought that the boy be juggling drives us," said the mayor.

Daumer shook his head. "What man of intelligence or ability will be composed pure hypocrisy condescend
to live on bread and water, and all that the palate likes, with disgust
on his own show, "he said.

"For the sake of the benefits?"

"No matter," said Binder undecided, "it seems a complex history. Since no one suspect can say
what the game is getting at, is cautious more so than challenged by one careless good faith the just
scorn of discernment. "

"That sounds almost as if only the skeptics and naysayers may mean discriminating," Daumer remarked,
frowning. "From the world we have not enough."

The mayor shrugged and looked at the young teacher with that of mild irony of which is the weapon of
the more experienced compared to the enthusiast. "We have a renewed Investigation decided by
the court doctor, "he continued. "The Magistrate Behold, Baron von Tucher and you, dear Daumer
should attend this study acting. The act will then be recorded, together with the already existing police
reports, the county government to send. "

"I understand: files, records," said Daumer mocking smile.

The mayor put his hand on the shoulder and said good-naturedly: "Do not be so superior, Lord,
our world now tastes even after ink, and because you have bookworms but certainly not the least
debt. By the way, he "felt in his chest and brought a Rock folded piece of paper to light, "to
be a member of the Commission asked you to to get introduced to an important document. It is the
letter that our prisoner at the Captain delivered Wessenig. Read. "

That was with no name provided signature write: "I send you all a
Boy, sir, wishes to serve his king and he is true to the soldiers.

The boy has been put to me in 1815, on a winter night, as he lay on my door. Have children myself,
am poor, I can hardly get through himself, he is a foundling, and
his Mother have I can not ask.

've Never let him step out of the house, no One knows of him, he does not know how my house is, and
the place he do not know.

You may even ask him, he can not say, however, because the language is still poorly ordered from
him.

If he had parents, as he has none, would be something Efficient become of him, You need only
to show him something because he can do the same. In the middle of the night I him continued,
and he has no money with him, and if you do not keep him, must You kill him and hang in the chimney.
"

When Tom had read, he returned the document to the mayor and went with serious Face up and
down.

"Well, what do you think," inquired Binder;? "Some of our gentlemen are of the opinion of the
unknown himself could have written the letter. "

Daumer stopped with a jerk pause in his walk, threw up his hands and cried: "Ah! you heavenly grace!
"

"This is of course no reason at all," the mayor hastened to add. "That has prevailed in the drafting
of the letter a purposeful malice, that it intended to is difficult to investigate and to mislead
is obvious. It is a despicable cold-heartedness in a tone that excited me from the beginning
to the suspicion that the young man's innocent victims a crime. "

A courageous opinion in which the mayor was encouraged by a process very which occurred shortly
after the gentlemen of the Commission on the following morning, the prison had entered Caspar
Hauser. While the guard was busy trying to undress the boy, could
be heard down below in an alley at the castle hill and pulled a peasant
music with drums Game on the wall over.

Since a ghastly looking to tremor ran through the body Hauser, his face, even his hands were
covered with sweat, his eyes rolled to all fibers listened counter terror, then he let out
an animal cry, rushed to the ground and remained lying quivering and sobbing.

The men turned pale and looked at each other perplexed. After a while it approached the Daumer
Unfortunate, laid his hand on his head and spoke a few comforting words. This had reassuring to
the youth, and he was silent, nevertheless seemed incredible impression wounding of the heard
sound his body from the inside and from outside. For days afterwards showed its essence the legacies
of the shock felt he was feverish on the pallet, and his skin was lemon yellow. Sympathetic issues
with it, however, was warmly moved, and he searched for words to
show his gratitude, and his otherwise clear vision clouded in dark
pain, especially for the Professor Daumer, the two-to three times
a day came to him, he put a tender gratitude, silence, or stammering,
dar.

In one of these visits was Daumer with the boy alone, and that for the first time, the Keeper had
blocked his request to the lower gate.

He was sitting right next to the prisoner, he talked, asked researched, all on a futile effort
of sincerity, patience and List. Finally, he confined himself to
the doings of the young man full of tension observed.

Suddenly thrust Caspar Hauser from his confused sounds: he seemed a little too call and looked
around searching. Daumer guessed soon filled and handed him the water jug, The Hill was placed
on the stove.

Caspar took the jug, put it to his lips and drank. He drank in long gulps, with blissful ease
and an enthusiastic lighting up the eyes, as if he had forgotten
the brief period of enjoyment, that the demonic Unknown to all sides
pressed him.

Daumer fell into a strange excitement.

When he came home, he paced for longer than a half an hour with great strides his study. About
eight clock there was a knock at the door his sister came in and
called him for dinner.

"What do you think, Anna," he called to her lively and with full sound relationship, "twice
two is four, eh?"

"It seems so," replied the girl, amazed, laughing, "all the people there say. Have you discovered
that it is different? That you would look like, you rabble rousers. "

"Not just this I have discovered, but something of the sort," said Daumer serene and laid his arm
around the shoulder of the nurse. "I want to dance even let our brave Philistines! Yes dance,
they are to me, and marvel. "

"It affects about even the boulder? Do you have something against him? Be on your guard only, Friedrich,
and do not get into trouble, it is not without you, this green. "

"Certainly," he admitted of tune quickly replied, "the ABC could suffer damage."

"Well, we still know nothing about the eccentric," asked for table
Daumer's mother, a gentle old lady.

Daumer shook his head. "For the time being one can only guess, soon we will know," replied he
rigidly upward glance.

The next day brought the "Morning Post, an article that was headlined" Who is Caspar Hauser? Although
this appeal to give the reader an answer could not, was the throng of the curious so great that
the mayor's office was forced to the Visiting hours to control by a strict rule. Sometimes people
stood at the head Head in front of the open door of the jail, and in all faces, the question
read: What is it with him? What is it for a man who understands the words do not yet speak can not recognize
things and can still see who is able to laugh, no sooner had his crying to the end that seems
innocent, mysterious and glowing behind the innocent Eyes maybe wrongdoing and shame are hidden?

Certainly
felt the prisoner, it felt painful, which directed the lust for him Views sought, and the desire
to gratify them, produced perhaps the first illuminating Twilight, which made him slow to understand
even the past, so that in distressed Chest after what has been sampled, a former first felt and
the present so that combined, measured in the deepest, shuddering at the time, learned what they
did with it changing, and what he saw compared to what he formerly
saw.

He understood the question and was demanding of the agent holds to satisfy the longing looks.

With
thirsty senses he tried to speak. His imploring glance, it dug out the talking Mouth of the people.

This
thumb was in his element. What no one else, not the doctor, the guards do not, the Mayor not only
succeed in the minute-takers would not be right that was capable to and after his caution and purposeful
patience. The person of the foundling occupied him but also so much that he studies and his
private duties, and almost his public Office forgot about it and he seemed like a man the fate
before him only the certain experience has been, so his whole life and thought of a happy confirmation
experiences. In his notes of Caspar Hauser was one of the first as follows: "This in a strange world
helpless fluctuating form this schlafumfangene glance, this anxiety-related behavior Gesture, this
stunted on a slightly lower face towering noble brow, on which Peace and purity radiation: there
are witnesses for me invincible German force. If the conjecture true, that they meet me, when
I, the roots of this existence dig up and can bring its branches to bloom, I want the world that
has become dull Immaculate humanity as against the mirror, and you
will see that it is valid evidence that the existence of the soul
that all of the idolaters miserable time with passion is denied.

"

It was a difficult path that was full of jealous teacher. Where he had to begin human language
was an unsubstantial thing, word for word until its meaning was attached, Memory until awakened,
cause and effect in their concatenation only be unveiled. Between a question and the next
were worlds of understanding, a "yes, a no, often thrown helpless
still was not where each term only arose out of the darkness and the
understanding of Vocabulary hesitated to vocabulary.

And it seemed like a light from a distant past the spirit of youth to inspire much faster than
even the blessed hope of Daumer had dared expect. It was amazing with what ease and power he
once said and how he held out of the chaos the sounds lifeless for him Living and Meaningful
full image conjured up so that it Daumer felt as he merely lifted the veil of eyes his protege, as he
played the role of the eavesdropper with the slow-bulging Memories. He held the body, while
the spirit of the boy returned to the district of where he came and
brought a customer, nor ear heard the like.

Caspar Hauser's report, recorded by Daumer

As far as Caspar could remember, he was always in a dark room was
never anywhere else, always in the same room.

Never seen the man, never heard his step, never his voice, no sound of a bird, not a cry of an
animal, not the rays of the sun sees, not the glimmer of the moon. Heard nothing but themselves, and
yet nothing of himself knowing the loneliness of not becoming occupied.

The room must have been of small width, for he believed, once with outstretched have touched two
arms to opposite walls. Previously, it seemed infinitely large; chained to a bed of straw, without
seeing the ankle, Caspar had never stain the earth leave on which he slept without dreams, without
dreams awake. Twilight and darkness were distinguished, he did so by day and night, and he knew
their names, but he saw the blackness once he awoke in the night
and the walls had disappeared.

He had no measure of the time. He could not say when started the unfathomable loneliness had at no
time because he thought that it could ever end. He felt no transformation in his body, he did not
want that something should be different from what it was, it frightened him not a safe, non
Future brought him to the past had nothing words silently ran the Clock rule full of life barely
felt, was his inner silence as the air that surrounded him.

When he awoke the next morning, he found fresh bread filled next to
the camp and the water jug.

Sometimes the water tasted different than usual, and if he had been drinking, lost his alertness
and fell asleep. After waking up, he then had the jug in your hand very often, He held it long
in the mouth, but no water came out, he placed it over again back and waited to see if not
soon get water because he did not know that it was taken, had but he no idea that he could
be out of anyone. On such days he was pure Straw on his bed, a clean shirt on the body, the
nails trimmed, his hair shorter, the skin cleaned. All this had happened in his sleep, though
he noticed it, and no reflection veiled his mind about it.

Caspar Hauser was not alone: ​​he had a comrade. He had a white horse Wood, a nameless, motionless
thing, and yet something in which his own existence dimly reflected.

As he suspected the living form in him, he considered it his equal, and in the dull sheen of his
artificial eye beads all the light of the outside world was over. He did not play with him,
not even silent conversation he held with him, and although it stood on a small board with wheels,
he never thought it to slide back and forth.

But if he ate his bread, he handed him every bite, before it even to his lips, and before
he fell asleep, he stroked it with a caressing hand.

That was his only action in many days, many years.

Then it happened once during the time of waking, that opened the wall, and from outside forth from
the Niegesehenen appeared an immense figure, a Niegesehener, the first Andre, of the word you
said and why you called Caspar. The ceiling of the room rested on his shoulders, something incomprehensible
Light and mutable in the movement was its members, a noise was around him, filled the ear,
according to sound flowed rapidly from its Lips, breathless listening
forced the brightness of his eyes, and his clothes hung on the Outside,
as a narcotic odor.

Of the many words that came from the lips of you, Caspar first understood none, but deeply agitated
by paying attention, he gradually realized that the enormity would take him away, that the thing
that shared his solitude, the name was Ross that he had received other horses will learn and that
he should.

said, "learning," which you always learn to learn ". And how to explain what you mean, he placed
a stool with four round feet in front of him, put a piece of paper out twice wrote the name
of Caspar Hauser, and led in writing out Caspar's hand. This pleased Caspar, black and white
because it looked like.

You put out of a book on the stool and said, pointing to the tiny
characters the words before.

Caspar she could repeat all, without any grasped the meaning. Also certain other words and phrases
after he babbled that tells him the man, for example: "I'd 'a rider to be like my father."

Which you seemed satisfied, at any rate, to reward him, he showed him in that the wooden horse
on the ground could scroll back and forth, and so that Casper hilarious when he next morning awoke.
He pushed the little horse in front of his bed and down, which resulted in a sound the ears did
woe, so he left it again and started having to talk to the horse by he unintelligible sounds from
the mouth of imitating you. It was a strange pleasure for him to hear himself, he raised his arms
and filled the room with his joyful Gelall.

His jailers liked him angry and so upset, he wanted to silence him: Caspar saw at once a bar
fly over his shoulder and felt at once a violent Pain in her arms, that he fell forward in
terror. In the midst of fear, he made the amazing perception that he was no longer connected to
the warehouse. For a while behaved He is very quiet, then he tried to slide forward, but he
shuddered when he and his bare feet touched the cold ground.

With difficulty he reached his bed and fell immediately in Sleep.

It was three times night and day, before which you returned and tried if his name still Caspar
could read and write the words from the book. He did not hide his admiration as The boy, this
easily could. He pointed to things around the room and called her name, he spoke slowly, eye
to eye with Caspar, and held it firmly while at the shoulder, through his Looks, his gestures,
the distortion of his features through Caspar knew what he was saying,
and he shuddered as his tongue faltering the man was obedient.

The following night he was roused from sleep. Lange and anguish he felt it, and could not quite
awake. When he finally opened his eyes, the wall was opened, and a purple glow flowed into the room.
Which you were leaning over him and said softly, perhaps Caspar fear to breast feed. He taught
and held it up with pants, with a coat and boots, then he set him on his feet, he leaned against
the wall and turned his back on him. He embraced his legs, took him up, embraced Caspar with the
arms of his neck, and now it went up a high hill, it seemed Caspar; in reality it was probably the
stairs of the underground dungeon.

Terribly boomed the breath of the man, something cool and wet hit Caspar's face, sat down in his
Long hair that started to move by themselves, and clung to his skin.

Suddenly, the blackness more, they swept down on the floor, everything was wide, soft and remained
dark, in the depth at a distance from his great things balanced,
broke from the top a blue jet and got up again, the raunchy humidity
swelled the folds of clothes, penetrating odors around waved, Caspar
began to cry and fell asleep on the back of A man.

On waking, he
lay on the ground, turned his face to the ground and flowed down from
cold in the body. Which you set it up. The air burned strangely, and
an unbearably bright Sham shimmered before his eyes. Which you made
him understand that he must learn to walk, he showed him how he should
go, he kept him under the arms from behind and pushed his head in
the chest, he so commanding that he should see on the ground. Caspar
obeyed waver and trembling, the air and the light of his eyelids were
burning, the smell made him , Cheat lost consciousness.

He slept
again, how long, he did not know. He also did not go as often as he
had tried, when it was dark again. Maybe he thought it was night now,
while they were only in a forest. The way he saw not, he could not
say whether it went up or down. Whether trees or lawns or houses were
there, he did not know. Sometimes He seemed all ablaze in red glow,
but when the soft, dark came, stretched Air and earth blue and green.
Whether people passed by, saying he could not, he saw not the sky,
he did not even see the man's face. Once water fell from a height;
He thought of you pour it with water, and complained, but that said
he pour it does not, he pointed into the air and shouted, "rain! Rain!
"

How long he thus been traveling, he did not know. Seemed to him
every time he was exhausted by walking down to rest, a day has passed.
Fear pulled him up and mastered his weariness, she flexed his wrists
and pulled his head up, while his eyes constantly stared at depth.
You gave him the same thing to eat bread, which he enjoyed in prison,
and let to drink water from a bottle. "Me fer the hay," he announced, and lay down again
with his feet toward the fire. Some of the others followed his example. "You'll find some hay
in the loft there," said The Sky Pilot to The Oskaloosa Kid. "Bring it down an' make your bed
here by me, there's plenty room."

A half hour later all were stretched out upon the hard dirt floor upon improvised beds of rotted
hay; but not all slept. The Oskaloosa Kid, though tired, found himself wider awake than he
ever before had been. Apparently sleep could never again come to those heavy eyes. There passed
before his mental vision a panorama of the events of the night. He smiled as he inaudibly voiced
the name they had given him, the right to which he had not seen fit to deny. "The Oskaloosa
Kid." The boy smiled again as he felt the 'swag' hard and lumpy in his pockets. It had given
him prestige here that he could not have gained by any other means; but he mistook the nature
of the interest which his display of stolen wealth had aroused. He thought that the men now
looked upon him as a fellow criminal to be accepted into the fraternity through achievement;
whereas they suffered him to remain solely in the hope of transferring his loot to their own
pockets. On the most horrible anti-Christian sentiment in Syria broke out, woselbst first
in Lebanon in 1860 after repeated violent acts committed against the Christians the peaceful
population of Maronite Hasbaia, and Deir el Raschaia Kamer, after commitment to complete their
weapons to protect the Turkish commandant of the places given, was slaughtered by hastening Druze
masse, and then in Damascus, the ancient Syrian capital, where, under a secret agreement of
the Authority a full Quarter (5000 souls) of the Christian population succumbed to the fanaticism
of the Mohammedans. Horrified about the atrocities committed, public opinion demanded intervention
by the major powers. But until those on the modalities of such were made conclusively elapsed months.
By then, the door to the Grand Vizier Fuad Pasha as commissioner with absolute authority on the
spot, sent, and the same can be had in place, with numerous Executions in Damascus and in Lebanon
to make the intervention of the powers unnecessarily. But was the end of August was sent to
a French occupation army in Lebanon not superfluous, only now by the superscript author and
promoter of the blood bath for

Conv-Meyers Lexikon, 4 Ed, XV. Bd

59

930

Turkish Empire (history 1861-1875).

Punishment were drawn.

Only in June 1861, after the compensation of Haunted Christian populations have suffered material
losses for the agreement reached was the French troops were again dismissed. Lebanon was peculiar
to a, straight from Constantinople, which varies according to county and made a governor Christian
denomination with Wesirsrang made.

Even in the Christian population of Turkey in Europe it was stirring under the influence the Pan-Slav
and Pan-Hellenic agitations in different places. Particularly dangerous was the revolt in Crete
in early 1866th Only in August sent troops to the gate the island to restore order, but the
fight broke out in the spring of 1868 with renewed Violence, and only when the gate Greece issued
an ultimatum, if not cease to support the Cretan insurrection, and in January 1869 which met in
Paris Conference of the Powers Greece compelled to submit to this ultimatum was the Pacifizierung
the island after they tasted great sacrifice of life and property, for which no Replacement was
done. This output would encourage other subject peoples. 1866 Serbia joined with the request of the
utter evacuation of the country by the Turkish troops forth, and in May 1867, said the door is
really the same as Austria held it penetrated. Egypt succeeded only against the Sultan to
keep his authority upright. He had in 1866 the viceroy Ismail Pasha willingly consent to the
new order of succession 1867 and granted the title Chedive with extended powers. When the latter
in 1869 on a Travel to Europe sought to regain its full sovereignty, he commanded the 29th
gate reduce Nov. this year, his army to 30,000 men, to buy a new tank vessels to contract
without the permission of the sultan and not bonds, separate negotiations
with to renounce foreign powers, etc. The Chedive submitted, but acquired
in May 1873 at a personal visit to Constantinople by a large gift
of money and increase the Tribute that the Sultan him everything,
except the increase of the fleet, again allowed.

In all the evils the government enjoyed Abdul Aziz 'still a certain prestige, as long as capable statesmen,
like Fuad and Aali Pasha, which, however intermittently, to 15 years in the important post
of Grand Vizier and the Minister for Foreign Affairs alternated, were at the head of the state.
But Fuad died in 1869 and 1871 Aali were there disappeared with the business customer, the Government
and the outer trust her more and more. The Sultan retained his choice of councils only one criterion
in mind, whether they him to change in his plan to the throne, and by introducing the right of primogeniture
his son Yusuf to appoint as his successor, would support. First, he appointed Mahmud Nedim Pasha,
the grand vizier, an ignorant and greedy man, who, to his creatures to bring the influential
places on the most arbitrary among the able official cleaned up and drew upon a great unpopularity,
of which a considerable part of his master went on. All of the accounts have been unscrupulously
managed. The Sultan himself went ahead with the waste by magnificent buildings. The army and the fleet
devoured vast Totals for the procurement of guns, rifles and armored ships. Telegraphs and railways,
at great expense, but only to the wishes and the benefit of foreign powers and the entrepreneur created,
few were used to augment the resources of the country, and initially loaded only the state treasury.
Traditional tools, such as stronger attraction of the control screw, Leasing of state assets,
income and access to seeds, reducing the content of the middle and lower officials were ignorant
exploitation soon worn out and ineffective and increased only the poverty and discontent among the
people. Accessible but press conditions had thus from year to year loans may be taken, to get
just money, it seemed to know the Turkish government in its concessions to the capitalists, no
border. It could thus soon the interest had grown to 5000 million of their external debt Frank
not pay more. On 6 October 1875 declared the gate that she was incapable of the Public debt
of the interest to pay more than 50 per cent, but that it 50 on the restierenden Per cent,
5 per cent. would issue bonds, which were to be redeemed later bar. But all attempts to stop
the mismanagement in the interior to do, were unsuccessful. In July 1872, It succeeded the patriotic
opposition to overthrow Mahmud, but succumbed to his successor all after a short reign the intrigues
of the Russian Ambassador Ignatiev, until August 1875 Mahmud was again recalled to the government.

Civil
unrest and war with new Rußlaud.

Russia, since 1864 represented by Ignatiev at Constantinople, had
incessantly and with increasing Success worked to regain his lost
position by the Crimean War in the Orient.

As Ignatiev in Greece no longer a powerless protege, but a dangerous Rival, saw he was not now, both
as a protector of the Orthodox Church as the Slav subjects of Turkey. incited by him, demanded the
Bulgarians their detachment from the Greek Patriarchate of Constantinople and acquired in March
1870 really the establishment of a suitable Exarchate. To shake the authority of the Western
powers turned Russia in October 1870 during the Franco-German War, the demand that by the Paris Peace
Russia imposed ban on hold on the Black Sea warships, will be repealed. The Porte sought help
in vain Europe: France was smashed to the ground, England had, by his selfish policy in the summer
of 1870 to all authority and all Influence brought, and at the London Conference in March 1871,
had the gate of the Bismarck supported Russia's add request. After this success was his Ignatiev
Efforts of not raising any reasonable management system, Turkey and Europe to alienate, to crumble in
the riots by the Interior and the like, and so the total submission bring about the same in
Russia, restlessly away, and he succeeded Mahmud Nedim Pasha by bribery, the Sultan by the
prospect of Russian support for his succession plan completely to bring in his power.

1875 broke in Herzegovina, allegedly caused by pilot pressure from a rebellion. Mon-

931

Turkish Empire (history 1875-1877).

Montenegro and Serbia made, despite the official declaration of neutrality
of the mediators Russia of the late promotion of the uprising.

The casual fight the uprising took some setbacks to the Turks, immediately became the gateway
to Russia's operation of the powers a Konsularkommission to establishing peace forced upon
them, and when the efforts of these at the negative attitude of the rebels failed, and even
the Pacifikationsbedingungen summary note of the Powers had been discarded, and an Austrian hand
attempted mediation had led to nothing because the gate finally believed to act independently to. By
two fortified camp they held in check and cut the Serbian insurgents of Montenegro from, what
was once limited to the insurgency some rough mountain areas. But Ignatiev was vigorously against
a threat of Montenegro and forced a relocation the Turkish troops from the Montenegrin border.
At that moment a andres cataclysmic event for the gate Reviews in Salonika were sixth May 1876 the
German and the French consul during a riot by fanatic Muslims, not without fault the authorities,
murdered. The gate made haste to the very severe Genugthuungsforderungen the powers to meet,
but their increased isolation was the natural consequence of the crime. The whole of Europe was
against them by twitching discontent used by Russia sent. The same knew of the two allied imperial
courts to approve the so-called. Gortschakowschen to obtain memorandum that the blame for
the success of the non Pacifikation Herzegovina attributed only to the Sultan and the threat of more effective
measures of a bi-monthly Cease-fire demanded to negotiate with the insurgents because of the peace.
Also the other powers, with the exception of England declared their agreement to writing this
State.

All layers of the Turkish nation were convinced that Russia on the destruction of the gate sense,
and that selfishness and ignorance of the sultan and his first vizier,
the enemy of mankind injecting high as assistants.

Over the compound of the Sultan with Russia were the most exciting Rumors spread, as if Russia
occupied Constantinople with his troops to the new Making order of succession to violence
and to punish the disaffected, and the Russian Ambassador came to meet the same with any denial.
On 11 May, there was stormy Appearances before the palace of the sultan, the Softas (theolog students)
had armed and demanded dismissal of Mahmud, distance Ignatiews and war against Montenegro. No hand
stirred for Abdul Aziz. Sought in vain by the same appeal of a popular man to the post Mahmud
to extricate himself from the embarrassment, he was even become impossible. On 29 May combined,
the new Grand Vizier, Mehemet Rushdie, with the war minister Hussein Avni and Midhat Pasha, to
depose the Sultan and the eldest son of Abdul Medjid, Murad V. to bring to the throne. In
the night of 30 May was the palace revolution without bloodshed performed. The deposed Sultan
was on 4th June in the palace Tscheragan where to had brought him, was murdered on the orders
of the Minister, we pretended that he had by cutting the wrists killed. On 15 June urged anew
the customer of a horrible bloody deed the audience: three ministers, including the energetic Hussein
Avni, were in the house of Midhat a Circassian officer murdered!

While this was in Constantinople, broke in different places of Bulgaria by Russia prepared uprising.
It was a war of extermination of the Bulgarians against their in the minority located Muslim
fellow citizens, but the author had in regard to the powerlessness
the gate charge.

Be offered against him by the irregulars, who later troops of the line begotten, the uprising was
still barbaric atrocities and terrible bloodshed knocked down. Meanwhile, Serbia had also completed
his preparations and exceeded now the limit to as the manifesto of the second July 1876 was the
insurgent neighboring provinces play the peace. Russia sent to Serbia the requirements for the war
of money, Weapons, ammunition and, above all teams. But the Serbs fought unhappy and saw the 29th
Aug. compelled to address the powers for mediation of a ceasefire, the They left treacherous
as they restored their ability to fight with Russian help to have believed. New victories in Alexinatz (late
October) is now opened to the Turks Away in the heart of Serbia, but their successes commanded
a telegram from the Emperor Alexander II Livadia out of 30 October 1876 hold, which under immediate
threat of diplomatic rupture imposed on them within 24 hours of cessation of their operations.
Meanwhile, in Constantinople Murad V. become insane; 31st Aug. succeeded by his brother Abdul Hamid
II in the void Hope Russia to disarm by yielding signed this 31st The October cease-file called
back his troops from Serbia and granted the faithless vassal State 1 March 1877 the most favorable
peace under the status quo ante.

Immediately after the conclusion of the Serbian-Turkish armistice England beat a conference before
that for respecting the integrity of the Ottoman Empire an administrative autonomy should determine the Slavic
Balkan provinces. At the meeting of the same, which in Constantinople held, was Midhat Pasha,
since 19 December 1876 grand vizier, the sultan's kingdom impose
a constitution which, 23 Published in December 1876, the complete
legal equality all gates subjects and proclaimed as an asset by the
Turkish government against the claims in favor of the powers of the
Slavs was not played without skill.

The Conference ended without result. After self herabgemildert their decisions, these were of Midhat
the big sofa, a prestigious gathering of about 300 people, including 60 Christians, submitted
to audit and unanimously rejected. But was the energetic Midhat already sold in February 1877
following a palace coup and banished to his Post of grand vizier was Edhem Pasha. Therefore, had
the first and only session of the Turkish Chamber in February 1877 without results. The more
so if Russia felt to energetic How encouraging, and after it completes its armor, it said 24th
April 1877 to Turkey, the war (see Russian Empire, History, p. 94). The same was kindled first
in Asia, in the upper woselbst Kurthal 17th May the little fortress Ardahan

59 *

932

Turkish Empire (History: Last time).

was captured by the Russians.

In June, the Russians crossed the Danube, without the Turkish Commander
Abdul Kerim it prevented conquered sixth July Tirnova, topped 12th
July Twyodischkapasses means of the Balkans, the Bulgarians incited
to Northern Thrace, stormed 19.

July, occupied for heavy artillery passable Shipka Pass, Jamboli,
Karlovo and other cities in the south of the Balkans, conquered Niko
police on the Danube and besieged Rustschuk.

This brilliant beginning of the campaign in line but not the progress.

In an attempt to to take fortified heights of Plevna, the Russians suffered 20, 21 and 31 July
defeat, The result was a retrograde movement. In Thrace, by Suleiman Pasha attacked they had
to retreat to the Shipka Pass, which they defended manfully, and in the Danube region they were
thrown over the Black Lom. They were compelled, not used to be rather to accept appreciated
alliance with the Romanians suffered, but with new attacks against Plevna, 7 to 12 Sept. again
defeats, so that significant Truppennachschübe were necessary. In Asia, they quarreled with Zewia
were unhappy with the Turks and thrown back on their own territory, until they 15th October was,
on the one Aladjaberg carry off a brilliant victory. The Turkish military had done more than
one, especially after the start of the war, was expected of them. However, since they do not support
thought they had finally but subject to the superior force. In the Asian theater of war was
18th Nov. lost Kars, and the Turks were driven back to Erzurum in Bulgaria but sealed the case of
long heroically defended Plevna (10th Dec) the loss of a much of the western Bulgarei, in which
penetrated the same time the Serbs, while Montenegrins in Albania were advancing victoriously.
Beginning in 1878 the Russians crossed the Balkans in several places at once. Suleiman, the
army was completely shattered at Philippopolis, the Schipkaarmee captured and 31 Jan. 1878 in Adrianople,
which the Turks voluntarily evacuated by the Russians, who already reached the Marmara Sea
and to the gates of Constantinople were penetrated, the dictates truce. This was followed by third
March because the Turks never Help found the Peace of San Stefano. In this, the independence
of Romania and Serbia and Montenegro magnification of the latter, the assignment of the Dobrudja
and a Part of Armenia, the formation of an autonomous Principality of Bulgaria, which in addition
to the actual Bulgaria, a large part of Rumelia and Macedonia, comprised stipulated and the
payment of substantial war reparations imposed on Turkey.

The delayed implementation of the peace is, however, as a result of the conflict between Russia and
England, which was run in a fleet in the Sea of ​​Marmara. While the strong stance expect the British
government the outbreak of war with Russia was, if this is not yielding showed, and the powers
are eagerly sought by a congress of a peaceful bring about solution of the Eastern turmoil,
there was in Constantinople in any clear, strong views. The ministers came and went depending on the
whims of the sultan and his Favorites. The chambers were sent home in February so the comedy and
a been "Ottoman Constitution" closed.

The inexperienced Abdul Hamid was suffering from almost morbid Fear of conspiracy in favor of
his brother Murad, and such was in fact in May 1878 tried but bloodily suppressed. On 1 June
was Mehemet Pasha Rüschdi again Appointed Grand Vizier. Under him, the door finally flung into
the arms of England, by fourth June, a secret agreement with the closed, according to England to
protect the Asiatic possessions Turkey took over, while Russia has not released his conquests
in Armenia would, and it was granted the right to occupy Cyprus. Mohammed was already 8th June
by Savfet Pasha replaced. This led the Turkish policy during the Berlin Congress (13 June to 13
July 1878). However, in Berlin, several provisions of the peace San Stefano in favor of Turkey modified
Aladschkert Bajesid and fell in Armenia was the autonomous Principality of Bulgaria to the
territory north of the Balkans together, at her back Sofia limited to the southern part, but
without Macedonia and the coastal strip, as a province Eastern Rumelia (sd) remain under Turkish
sovereignty. By contrast, Austria 29th June charged with the occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and
the protest of the Turkish representative rejected it. Furthermore, Greece was awarded the right
to a rectification its northern border (assignment of southern Thessaly and Epirus, with Janina
and Larissa) Lay claim to. Although the gate, signed and ratified the Treaty of Berlin of 13.
July 1878 hastened, but not with its execution. The final peace with Russia was eighth February
1879 and signed with Russia, the war indemnity to be paid to 802 Frank Mill set. Against the
occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Austria Troops in August 1878, Turkey provided no resistance
and closed 21st April 1879 Austria a convention by which the sovereignty of the Sultan in those
Proinzen formally preserved.

Recent times.

The power of the Turkish Empire had been weakened considerably by the Berlin Peace, especially
in Europe, and the great financial distress had also contribute to the authority the gate in the
country and to reduce to foreign powers. There were therefore more Unreasonable demands on them
is not enough. The Greeks demanded urgent need for the realization of the border rectifications
by assignment of Epirus and Thessaly, and obtained at the Berlin Conference 1880 Border conceded
that their claims satisfied almost completely, so that the third gate July 1881 almost all
of Epirus Thessaly and the Arta district was ceded to Greece.

In Albania, she was forced in 1880, her subjects are in Dulcigno
with Gewaltkur submission to force in their assignment to Montenegro.

Its attempt in 1879 at the dismissal of the Chedive increase from Egypt to their sovereignty
over this land, was by the intervention of the powers frustrated, and their inaction during
the riots caused by Arabi Pasha in 1882 allowed England, unauthorized intervention in Egypt and the
military occupation of the country. In 1871, close to the Turkish Empire was chained Tunis 1881 France
lost. Nevertheless, had the gate for such operations such skill and safety in the diplomatic
Negotiations showed that its position the Great Powers GE

933

Turkey red - Turkistan.

changed compared to their advantage. While they are the pretensions of England with peace and
strength opposed, they gained in Germany and Austria since the dissolution of the Three Emperors
Alliance an increasingly effective support, so it was possible for her, their possessions in Europe and
claim to increase its influence in Africa and Asia.

Inside, however, failed a reform attempt, which the appointed Grand
Vizier, former Tunisian Minister Khereddine Pasha 1879, made the opposition
of the Old Turkish party and some powerful minions the Sultan, as
Osman Mahmud Damat.

However, exempt the Sultan Abdul Hamid, the more He received an independent
opinion in public affairs and acting intervened gradually of the pernicious
influence.

To carry out financial reform, he appointed German officials, which is also 1881 by Irad of 20
 The youth had halted again, but he now crouched to
one side fearing to reveal his presence because of the bloody crime he thought he had committed;
yet how he yearned to throw himself upon the compassion of this fine voiced stranger! How his
every fibre cried out for companionship in this night of his greatest terror; but he would
have let the invisible minstrel pass had not Fate ordained to light the scene at that particular
instant with a prolonged flare of sheet lightning, revealing the two wayfarers to one another.

The youth saw a slight though well built man in ragged clothes and disreputable soft hat. The
image was photographed upon his brain for life--the honest, laughing eyes, the well moulded
features harmonizing so well with the voice, and the impossible garments which marked the man
hobo and bum as plainly as though he wore a placard suspended from his neck.

The stranger halted. Once more darkness enveloped them. "Lovely evening for a stroll," remarked
the man. "Running out to your country place? Isn't there danger of skidding on these wet roads
at night? I told James, just before we started, to be sure to see that the chains were on all
around; but he forgot them. James is very trying sometimes. Now he never showed up this evening
and I had to start out alone, and he knows perfectly well that I detest driving after dark
in the rain."

The youth found himself smiling. His fear had suddenly vanished. No one could harbor suspicion
of the owner of that cheerful voice.

"I didn't know which road to take," he ventured, in explanation of his presence at the cross road.

"Oh," exclaimed the man, "are there two roads here? 

§ 61

[Side note: Hours of work of wage workers.]

The employment contract may in the ordinary wage-earning members of
the Foundation's holdings only commit to a specific daily working
hours, in the work of the current Operation should not be longer than
nine hours.

[Side note: About work.]

To work overtime or holiday work on the farm may, except in case of
impact on our business instead of disorder, no one shall be required
or encouraged.

Arrangements for temporary performance of work on during normal operation must not be made mandatory for more
than four working weeks.

§ 62nd

[Side note: Travel.]

All over 18 years old, not in the conventional apprenticeship contract members of the Foundation's
holdings are entitled to leave for twelve working days per year,
due to its use by appointment instruct the management of the business
or their agents are.

Regularity applied for leave to no more than three working days, in
each case and within one month, only because of demonstrable specific
detriment to the company or be denied for other company employees.

General limitation all right to leave to individual time periods in the year is only with respect
to such permissible to work with continuous fire, or else to work are involved in the disruption
is regularly associated with a particular disadvantage

Members of the operation, work as officials in which to volunteer
work in the kingdom, State or local service must be appointed, to
the proper exercise of that activity required to leave their application
will always be granted.

§ 63

[Side note: Management of health insurance.]

The health insurance companies the foundation is to continue the self-administration of the insured
assumed to remain in the way that, apart from the legally demanded the participation of Representatives
of the operating contractor, not the management teams of the Foundation farms mitbeschließend,
but only in an advisory and Statutenmäßigkeit overseeing the process,
influence on their management practice.

§ 64

[Side note: workers representatives.]

Workers' representatives in
the foundation's holdings, which powers should be entitled against
the total of the workers or apprentices, and not just under 18 years
old Limited class of the same person or to the management of the company
must wholly by direct secret ballot by all the company employees over
18 years old , Emerge from year to year subject to utter renewal and
not less than twelve Members exist, the eligibility for them but must
be limited to adult, since at least one year in active operation in
the ordinary wage-earning workers and Related shall not be subject
to additional restrictions.

You have the power to convene without notice by the management of its operations and have the right, in
all matters pertaining to their operation at the request of this
Board be heard.

§ 65

[Side note: penalties.]

Against all punishments which by the management of a business or their representatives at Basic
work rules, or can be ordered on the basis of other statutes, must Relying on judicial or arbitral
decision or appeal to a the rules of § 64 appropriate representation of workers to be approved.

Economic
entitlements in employment.

§ 66

[Side note: to guarantee a fixed time wage.]

All workers in the foundation's holdings and Geschäftsgehifen have against one with each successful
be set and agreed-upon fixed time pay, per week or per month.

This has been continuing for last covered in the work week of public
holidays, but otherwise only on the ratio of actual hours worked,
as far as shortening this for the ultimate will of the person concerned
or by his side or on disability occurred as a result of the simultaneous
absence of the majority in an operating department has, and not §
70 applies.

§ 67

[Side note: Ban respectively. Restrictions on the reduction of the wage period.]

The fixed wage or salary of a worker in an operating foundation, shop
assistants or officials once granted without express reservation,
or whatever such reservation been given away for longer than a year's
time, may also temporary, or permanent Reduction of daily working
hours be reduced no more, unless the person proper sequel to his earlier
work and is therefore incapable of, or otherwise for reasons that
lie in his person, to another work position in the company goes.

§ 68

[Side note: Supplements for overwork pp.]

For agreement in terms
must be paid over or holiday work, if such is not a substitute is
used for business interruption loss of work, in the ordinary wage-earning
People standing next to the appropriate time or piece-work always
in the employment fixed in advance for special compensation of not
less than 25 percent of the fixed time wage be granted.

§ 69

[Side note: wage guarantee for piece work.]

For all the chord or piece work of the fixed time workers rightful
reward is in proportion the spent working to ensure a minimum income.

§ 70

     

     [Side Note: Paid leave.]

     

     Workers and office assistants, which is over 21 years and at least
one year in former servant of the Foundation's holdings are, for six
working days per year as agreed according to § 62 para 1 shall continue
delivered last holiday of the fixed term contract.

     
     

Company employees who took leave on the basis of § 62 para 4, the solid Time wage or salary for the
entire duration of the leave required continuing added last, as far
as they will not receive appropriate compensation for time spent by
public funds.

§ 71

[Side note: minimum rates of health insurance.]

The health insurance companies of the Foundation may in the future the insured not less Offered
as

full cash benefit for six months;

     three quarters of the insurable wages as sick pay;
     

     Co-insurance of the immediate family members;
     

     free choice of doctor under the recognized doctors of residence;

Contributions
     of the farmer is equal to the total contribution of all Insured
     per year.

     
     Expansion of medical services to an entire year has to enter when the
     General Assembly the health insurance claims such.

     
     

     Pension rights.
     

§ 72

[Side note: Pension entitlement.]

Officials, business agents and laborers who die before their 40th Year of life in the Service
of a foundation management have occurred after five years of service, cause of action Entitled
to pension from their company, both for yourself, if during the employment relationship of age
or permanent illness or otherwise without own gross negligence to continue their activities
are unable to like even in the event of their death benefit of their kin.

remains for the settlement of these claims in respect of all non-stationary in special contracts
Staff operating the "Joint Staff Pension" of the company Carl Zeiss and Schott & Gen. from = 1
September 1897 = [54] in its main provisions:

Beginning of the pensionable
service at the age of = 18 = [55] Year of life;

Maximum amounts of
pensionable month - wage or salary after 5 -, 10 - and 15 years of
service

= 100 = [3] Mk, = 120 = [3] Mk, = 140 = [56] Mark for workers,
= 120 = [4] Mark, = 160 = [4] Mark, = 200 = [57] Mark for foremen,
Clerks and other office assistants;

Disability pension between the
5th and 15 Years of service 50 per cent each of the pensionable salary
or salary, and thereafter by 1 each Per cent rise each year until
the 40th Years' service;

4 / 10 widow's pension, orphan's pension
2 / 10, together up to 8 Tenth of the disability pension;

Disability
pension without disability retirement pension after the age of 65
At least 30 years of age and at the same service;

as long as decisive,
as the Foundation has not taken up further benefits.

§ 73 [58].

= Is done by the Neuredaktion of § 72 .=

§ 74

[Side Note:. Pension contributions] [59] Those active business members, each of which have in case
of death pension benefits in favor of family members, can the Pension Regulations and related
provisions of the labor and employment contracts for contributions
be used for the survivor's pension.

The contributions may be imposed by Classes are graded with regard to age and marital status,
may, but for no Class will be calculated later, as to half of the actuarial premium for average
risk, which in each class by the assurance of relic board the company grows, and may, for any individual
more than three percent of fixed salary or salary amount.

Because of the pension, which the family business even in the event
of disability or Pension to come, may in future contributions should
not be charged.

§ 75

[Side note: insurance against loss of pension or reduction of pension
entitlement.]

Against such business members, which in case of disability
pension claim have achieved against their company, may, after their
ability to work through illness or otherwise without gross negligence
on its part, is substantially reduced, unilateral termination of employment,
unless the statute referred to in § 79 of this release conditions
inflicted Present only under the direct grant of the 'statutory pension.

The

retirement must be granted such a once in operation it none of his
previous Working position of suitable work may be offered more time
with higher wages than the each earned pension entitlement as a pension
guarantee him.

If a worker or a business assistant for reasons that lie in his person, to a Work position in
the company passes that are associated with lower wages than its previous is, he keeps in the
event of later retirement, entitled to that pension for minimum performance, which would have been
entitled if his retirement at the time of the change of working position
would be done.

Termination of that relationship.

§ 76

[Side note: notice periods.]

The mutual period of notice shall in the foundation's premises for workers not less are not
as two weeks, for business agents set at less than six weeks.

§ 77

[Side note: severance pay, conditions and content of the claim.]

The available cancellable contracts officers, business agents and
workers of the Foundation's holdings have for the entire three years
since the age of 18 Year of life in the service of the Foundation
spent the period of service cause of action against their company
on an award of compensation for loss of their position when resolution
is of service by the company, without that they are to continue the
contractual activity in turn become unable or have given rise to the
customizable fault termination in accordance with § 79 of this Statute.

This

compensation is in the = responsibility of the Fort of them last fixed-time wage or salary for
the duration of the discharge following six months = [60].

For those business members who have attained to the board deferred
rights statute, compensation should not be less than the total amount
of Disability Benefits to stressful board for a period equal to the
fourth part of the past, to the provisions of the Pension Regulations
eligible service period; = the remuneration pursuant to paragraph
2 excess amount is payable immediately =.

Anyone with a contract of apprenticeship, working as an apprentice, before consummate 16th Years
with a foundation operating occurred, has called on the first compensation
claim even then, if he without the fault or after completion of 18th
Age is released.

= A severance pay is granted after six months of service if the release is not, for reasons that
lie in the person of the sacked workers, but by limiting operation, implementation of manufacturing improvements,
or similar operational measures is caused.

The office of compensation in these cases in the Fort responsibility of the last fixed time-related
wage or salary during the sixth part of the time that the offenders has spent in the service
of the company, but at most for half a year .=

Those who have received severance pay once to win in the event of his re-entry in an endowed
operating new claim in a repeated dismissal until after the expiration
of three new years' service, and until the end of the fifth year of
service only for those new amount around which the new claim exceeds
the previous performance.

§ 78 [61].

= The current wage and salary payments (§ 77 para 2) are the usual
number of days cash room to rise, the company is entitled to the payment
of all funds at once .= Effect

[Side note: transferability of entitlement
to severance pay.]

= The right to severance compensation is inherited
only to those family members whose major breadwinner of the claimant
at the time of his death was.

An assignment or pledge is as far as the provisions of the Confiscation
Act and the CPO contract do not preclude only with permission of the
company allowed .=

= Is the claim denied by the company, then only
the grant of compensation or Withdrawal of the dismissal of Justice.

     Choosing the latter, the company, it has to the time of dismissal
     until actual reinstatement of the salary or wages continue delivered
     last .=
     

     [Side Note: Cessation of Entitlement to severance pay.]
     
     = The claim expires if it not claimed within 2 weeks after leaving
     will be requested and where necessary, within a further 4 weeks .=

§
     79
     

[Sidenote: Loss of entitlement to severance pay in case of fault.]

     The right to the limit set in § 77 severance is to blame for adjustable
     rise only apply if the termination of that relationship on the
     part of the company by notice or immediate dismissal is reasonable
     to

     
     because of substantial breach of contract, namely
     

     for gross misconduct in relation to one of the in § 57 designated points
     - with each fraudulent acts or omission, if it goes against a contractual
     obligation, as a rough Breach of duty;
     

     because of continued breach of contract - where the character of
     the Continued to apply in any case found to be in repeated misconduct,
if because of similar misconduct = = Explicit warning within a year
the same person by a member of the management under the threat of
Release has gone before;

of facts which include, without infringement
important reasons for not continuing result of the Treaty, namely

because
of such facts that the trust in a reliable Performance of official
duties or maintaining honest must make entrusted interests of the
company in question - subject to all the rights guaranteed in § 58;

because
of alcoholism or because of other continuing Excesses, which are capable
of damage to health or induce premature disability;

for gross defamation,
libel or malicious assaults Damage to superiors, subordinates, or
be against Employees with whom the offender by virtue of its working
position official has to communicate;

because of such acts, which
violate the civil honor, or because of a lifestyle that is contrary
to good morals.

Whether the termination of the contract only after prior notification
or immediate dismissal may depend on the civil law, regardless of
whether in the event of termination of contract the detriment of the
law or § 79 does not occur.

§ 80

[Side note: Exclusion of the right to severance compensation in the event of incapacity.]

A claim to severance compensation under § 77 does not apply if the worker or employee to continue
the contractual activity unable or from other causes in continuing
in turn, is prevented.

The remaining claims are directed in such cases only under the provisions
of § § 67 and 72-75 of this statute, respectively. on the basis of
the latter Pension Regulations in force at, and regards the temporary
disability by the provisions of § 82

§ 81

[Side Note: Similarly,
upon retirement.]

Termination of employment or employment contract
by the company under the direct delivery is of further duties and
permanent grant of the 'statutory pension terms the person standing
in contract terminable at any time permitted and shall not create
any right to compensation from § 77 of this Statute.

§ 82

[Side note: suspension of the service contract.]

Temporary disability
in the performance of the service contract does not give respect to
all that of company employees, which, according to § 77 is entitled
to severance pay for won the case of involuntary dismissal, did not
repeal, but only suspension of Service Contract for the duration of
the disability if it is caused

by considerations of essential interests
of the company employees or his family, unless the service interruption
to Agreement with management and is longer than is a year;

by calling
for military service in time of need law in Peace or war;

by investigation
or criminal detention, and the duration of six Months and not exceeding
in the latter case, not because of the underlying offense cancellation
of the contract according to § 79 justified.

 Where is it?" cried the boy. "It will come in here and kill us as it
killed that--that--down stairs."

"It can't get in," Bridge assured him. "I've locked the door and pushed the bed in front of
it. Gad! I feel like an old maid looking under the bed for burglars."

From the hall came a sudden clanking of the chain accompanied by a loud pounding upon the bare
floor. With a scream the youth leaped to his feet and almost threw himself upon Bridge. His
arms were about the man's neck, his face buried in his shoulder.

"Oh, don't--don't let it get me!" he cried.

"Brace up, son," Bridge admonished him. "Didn't I tell you that it can't get in?"

"How do you know it can't get in?" whimpered the youth. "It's the thing that murdered the man
down stairs--it's the thing that murdered the Squibbs--right here in this room. It got in to
them--what is to prevent its getting in to us. What are doors to such a THING?"

"Come! come! now," Bridge tried to soothe him. "You have a case of nerves. Lie down here on
this bed and try to sleep. Nothing shall harm you, and when you wake up it will be morning
and you'll laugh at your fears."

"Lie on THAT bed!" The voice was almost a shriek. "That is the bed the Squibbs were murdered
in--the old man and his wife. Of the case can also be given this board no other interest,
represented as that of the cooperative, as such, with respect to that endure forever against
the interest of each in it any person, the individuals and individual groups.

I have said earlier, what was the decisive point in which the interests the cooperative as such
does not meet with the interests of all the into their connected persons, namely, that the
joint work income not distributed fully should be, but that part should be regarded as a collective
purchasing and distribution withdrawn stay - at least in good times.

For what purpose will this happen? What is the purpose for that not be necessary, the total
income is distributed? Which is much needed because of three special requirements:

First, a part of the labor income are withheld to cover over the Enjoyed themselves assumed future
performance, if the total of all such individual be guaranteed, as it did us in the case of
the pension funds and the Unemployment in the form of severance pay.

Second, it is necessary that a part of the labor income is retained for later Distribution to
the children do not, but to the successor. I speak of the need a growing need for capital
by propagating its own assets and increased borrowing power be able to meet, a growing need
for capital, which is given by the fact that the Cooperative expand
their sphere quantitatively by adding new members may, as has been
done clearly with us.

Third, there is the provision for bad times in the interest of conservation
of the whole and in the interest of all existing respectively at the
relevant time comrades.

The cooperative must be set up so that they can fix the bad times with faltering business.

These are three purposes that make it necessary that a co-out under all circumstances has to work
that they have a reasonable portion of the proceeds of labor as a
collective ownership for reserves, although for the comrades always
pleasant and beneficial would be if all would spread.

I want to give this short list of three purposes for some explanations. First the last one:
a cooperative must set the time for a possible bad Business transactions. If they do not, they
must be expecting that a prolonged it makes bad business period not only unable to keep their comrades
to water, they can not descend to a lower economic level, but they must also fear that it is
bankrupt and the decade-long joint work is lost. It can but set it only if it in good times, a
reasonable amount of common Labor income retains.

The other, to help meet the need of increasing capital requirements, which intensifies under
the point of my view then - without it being the work in the service of capital comes, without
offer of dividends - that the cooperative remains creditworthy, new
Recourse should merely ordinary capital against interest rate, so
the work will not be withdrawn as everywhere is of interest.

The first point was that the cooperative needs reserves to meet future performance, which it
has assured its comrades. This is our current importance that we Provisions for coverage of
two types of burdens that we have adopted. First, it is the board representation for both the
bereaved and for the case of disability, then the assurance of the retirement pension, when
a comrade come a certain age and has also that which is codified
at us under the name of a severance package, but this is nothing more
than an unemployment actually.

I assume that you place this matter some understanding. I do not know if I've ever been in
a larger circle expressed myself about it particularly; therefore I will now give some explanations.
We have 7 per cent on average of what we can over the course of the year, give to the working
people working, so the Wages and salaries, expected as a reserve for the purpose of recovery of
pension costs and that 7 per cent now, in the time that this burden is still low, so the percentage
not in later years is much higher. We have documents, which according to some extent can estimate
what amount due to our board this statute burdens in later years be if the composition of our staff
is a point of rest, a steady state, approaches. The various classes work of our staff are now mostly
from younger people composed. The result is that we must be prepared annually, about 11 or 12
per cent of the total wage and salary account yet paid as a pension.

It will seem strange, perhaps calculating high. This is no longer the his case, when I tell you what
the widow's pension from us, namely, that on average each married man with 7000-8000 M. purchased
from us in the life insurance benefit his dependents in case of death. Half of the amounts
which the annual cost make sure to pay off those who are married to the company in the form
of pension contributions. The other half of the amounts paid by the
company.

This year has the same only about 7000 M. of [27], in 20 or 30 years it will be around 30-40000
M..

Even higher figures do you get when you look at the importance of our elderly. Anyone who is
65 years old - if he does not later than after 25 Years in a Foundation operations occurred
- with the right, three quarters of its his last allowed time or weekly salary to a pension
claim. The statistics indicate that on each 90 people between 18 and 65 are a 65 years old,
that is, that with a 900 people counting labor, if it has the composition indicated in every year
always ten is 65 Years and then get the right to grant old age pension have. But now is the
likely life of a man aged 65 still 10 years. What then such as the [capitalized] would have to
call for old-age pension So is still nine times his annual pension entitlement. On average,
all who are with us 65 years, an amount of 1,000 meters as [annual]
age pension .

Belong Ten receive in a year 9000 level, in 10 years, thus 90 000 M.

If you take these figures into account, it will not appear obvious to you, if our Calculation shows
that because of the pension funds of 7 per cent in a year than Wage and salary amount paid must
be retained so that the average load never higher than 7 per cent
is to ensure that the future burden have a pre-coverage, so the future
will not be unduly burdened.

We do not have a second facility of its kind and that is the device which we under the name
of severance pay, which, in reality, however, as I have said have to take out insurance against
unemployment. What it is, if the statute is that each, the 3 years has been with us when he
can no longer be employed - for example, in times of bad trade - the amount of his fixed salary
for six months must be granted on his release? That would at least compared to what is otherwise
the establishment of unemployment insurance will be paid a very substantial
indemnity and insurance of his sudden unemployment.

For those who know how to read between the lines, but that has a very different Importance. My
successor in the management would have to be crazy guys, if they should not count on the fingers,
that if 50 people would be too much, it would be foolish, this to release easily and pay them
the severance pay. Them the six-month give reward for the journey means as much as if they were
employed for 3 years and they every week can go for a walk one day or 1-1/2 years 2 days a week.
Now, although obvious that with the publication of the severance pay, a reduction of production
can be achieved, a reduction in current loads, one can achieve the same, however, if in the
aforementioned sense, a restriction made by the working hours. Virtually means this assurance
in the event of non-employment insurance, however, that even in bad times, those people who
have been integrated with us for 3 years and otherwise their husbands
have to be ever released.

This second part of our insurance company requires a certain reserve, which we have calculated at
2 per cent. Accordingly, we must for the assumed future performance
9 per cent of the total labor income beyond the labor income of the
individual and in reserve bring to search.

Many of you will say to me certain: I would prefer it if I paid these 9 per cent would. Some
will say: Other people have not much of a pension for their wives and children - »schiert
For my wife, to schiert child? Let them go begging, if they hungry, "If I am disabled, I am simultaneously
Reich Invalides;! I leave I stamped the beggar's bowl and then it will be all right. Perhaps
one of our care therefore call it a stupid device. Well, I hope not know that many of us who entertain
such thoughts, but more should be here, so I say: It's quite good, that the institutions are
forced, which can escape no one in their own interest. For it would be highly improper for a cooperative,
which in such a convenient work areas operates, such as ours, if they wanted the community cause
poor loads. This must Honor of the company are safeguarded. Comrades who think differently, we
do not prefer have.

But some are there who can say no one can blame that: we have no Interest in the prints, because
we do not intend to stay here permanently. This had a right to complain if I could not tell
her consolation that in spite of these deductions for the forced institutions to what they left
as a working income is certainly not less than it would be if it elsewhere under the same Also
their labor anböten! This is also the fact that I can show you that this 9 per cent, which we denied
for the stated purposes of the insurance comrades and have to travel far less than the ordinary
profits of enterprise, which each contractor must remove the worker if he is not the same sources
of entrepreneurial profit has opened to us by our organization work. So even those people who which
these deductions have to put indirectly, without being expected benefits of this have are not
harmed compared with those in other circumstances the proceeds of their Enjoy working.

(Pause.)

According to the explanations I have given you, now the
discussion is on the basis the reward scheme at the company CARL ZEISS
under the specific question: How could a Cooperative to distribute
all the proceeds of their activities in relation to the total all
employees on the one hand and the cooperative as such on the other?

How could the Board to regulate the distribution of a cooperative, if he wants to be reasonable
and fair?

The first question is what can and what to retain from the total income, at least are not distributed
in good years? what the cooperative will receive as a collective
property Remain?

The second question is, which principle is now to the distribution of certain among the various
groups and the individual will be allocated? The first question remains ourselves: What is to be
distributed? as a second question: What is to be distributed?

Where there is something in the joint return to labor, by working
together through 900 or 1,000 persons from over, the distribution
must be discarded?

It is now easy demonstrate that each cooperative, like any private entrepreneur in the mere organization
work as such a source has the additional yield of the total work over individual work all comrades.

If
any one brings together money to buy machines and buildings, facilities creates and then takes fifty
or a hundred people in his ministry to make a market in any commodity, for which the market is receptive
yet - if this does the sole proprietor, either for or in the form
of forming a cooperative, it can tell the workers: fact that you are
here working together, have capital available to use machines and
elemental force can, in that the work is distributed, each doing the
work for which he is most best is that commercial administration is
set up, sales regulated, commercial Sales of goods are imported -
through all of this will yield greater than if each wanted to work
according to his ability alone.

The organization then, and working together heterogeneous elements, the source of added value and
more revenue is working.

There is a profit organization, which arises simply from the fact that many work and complement each
other and use common capital and thus in 5 days a week as much or more to work than them this mutual
individually, separately and without to provide support, in 9 or 10 days would be possible.

So
any normal organization, if only such common factors of increased economic Performance of the joint
work, used in other makes only what hundreds of others also make - every organization is in
itself the source of a profit organization. And each of these Organizations would have as good
as any private company or a cooperative the right say, a part of
what is achieved in this way more than what the individual without
the organization or could achieve without the co may not be distributed,
must remain with the company or contractor.

This is the usual "forest and meadows" entrepreneur profit, one of its root and a has some justification,
even when nothing more is added than what I mentioned to you have:
appropriate means of working method, commercial sales, etc.

We have
of course in our businesses and this "forest and meadows," Entrepreneur
income available.

We can say every individual and every group, if you wanted to try it to work alone, without having to
be part of the whole and without the benefits of being part of the whole to have if you would then
distribute throughout the profit of enterprise, you would always still less than what you get here.

But
there are also still in another sense, an organization, the source of a special Entrepreneurial
profit can be. They are namely, those fine organizations that to draw from the joint work even
more benefits to know than it otherwise, with ordinary Means possible. Especially in our industrial
areas there are such devices which offer the possibility of another
source of surplus value of labor, in addition to the usual Entrepreneurial
profit.

Our products have such as a higher resale value, as like Products of other companies, which
put into the same technical work, but but inferior in use, because the products of our organization
or for the have that they are representatives of progressive improvement
in terms of increasing the performance of the products.

That the market value increases in proportion to the put into them mechanical, exterior work. This
can be seen in the fact that what we do - and some others on our field work as well - not an ordinary
market goods, as many will be made next to us. Our products are not under the general competition,
they enjoy the special appreciation of all those who use them. The performance of our Makes a
bigger, than those which are manufactured by other companies, which
can not give them the same respect.

We have this reputation of our products in that they are no ordinary market goods that they have only
a limited, in some Things do not compete are subject to a source higher sales value, the numerically
evidence is.

In relation to a part of our production is also the fact that it is under patent protection; yes,
almost half of our entire annual production, the figures on the distribution Find arrived Journal
[28], is under patent protection. What does that mean? Answer: they are also externally labeled
as special inventive step, in which new Ideas are expressed, the sale is given added value
than other products, which are produced commercially as good.

It may now be the question whether the extended to everything, even to that which is not patented
is. And then another question: by what number should we estimate these higher resale value?

The first question is whether what is said refers only to that which is under patent protection.
I can say it briefly, that the affairs of our most valuable patents who are that we have not
taken and did not need to take. For this See a higher value compared to the products of similar
work we do not need to obtain only by the stamping of the Patent Office, which also have other
products, which anyone can imitate. The reputation they have with law, although they are free from
and the like prevent the competition, because they are representatives
of advanced power are.

So I can say that we should prefer this value and this value and increase our Products to all types
extend the same, regardless of whether they are patented or not.

The fact, however, that nearly half of our products are not made by other may give me a desirable
base for the estimate of what amount of material This added value is. Many of you may already
know what I can tell you that it is at least 10 percent of retail
sales value, because there are other people - manufacturers in Paris,
London, New York, etc. - for the mere permission to do what we To
make us pay 10 per cent of the sales value as a license fee.

What follows from this that there are people that give us 10 percent of the proceeds, just for permission
to to customize products according to our pattern to them for the same price as we resell? It
follows with absolute certainty that this increase of 10 per cent on the retail value this
added value is expressed, for it would still be so stupid and no manufacturer us 10 per cent
deliver on our fixed prices when the value of our products are not actually 10 per cent stand higher
than that of other companies. He also wants despite the levy of 10 per cent still have his usual
business profit. And I say quite boldly, that what I said here about the added value of the patented
products I, also applies to non-patented items; the reputation they not only get by the mechanical
and technical work, but in that for them to express new ideas Who come to leave this value also
appreciated them for at least 10 per cent.

We have here the source
of entrepreneurial profit, which increased the work Added value is
to say from the for sure is that it may not be distributed, because
he does not merit those who make these things, a value that is not
there would be if the technical work and business activity exactly
the same would remain, but if we do that instead of the preferred
products such that the general Subject to competition.

This gain, which is in addition to the value that the operation of the detail in co-operation is,
therefore, is the source of collective learning. The collective purchase but is a purchase that
is not to distribute because it stems not from the individual. This gain stems from the finer
qualities of our organization, not just Capital in the form of buildings and machines, not just
division of labor and commercial administration has set up, and makes available, but by long
tradition a much more intense Cooperation has brought about very
heterogeneous elements, which together produce values ​​which the
individual can not win.

I will, because this is a very important point to explain a little closer, why this organization profit
may not be distributed, first of all I want to hold me but only on the numbers. So, if this
special profit, on the added value from the organization to the ordinary profit of enterprise
- I have called the "forest and meadow-profit entrepreneurs" - is added to which, which puts
in the work activities of the individual, if the 10 per cent of retail value Is, as I have
proved by figures - the percentage makes it to the included work from when we all, as wage and
salary payments to the phenomenon compensation as a benchmark for the next view in the articles
contained work?

Due to the number you provided that it is accurate I guarantee, you can is very easy to calculate
that on average over the last two years, this 10 per cent of the retail value of production
no more and no less than 24 or 25 per cent of the amount that was paid in the course of the last
year for services rendered. Then it comes to the conclusion that if the company merely as
a non-distributable hinstellt that which it has at that source, in this added value of our work, the
opposite of me, so the ordinary business profit has been held up as a special profit of enterprise,
if they only wanted to retain from the total income of the joint work, it would be an amount equivalent
to about 24-25 per cent of the sum paid for the work.

I would ask you then to look at the numbers of the list more closely. Then you will not be surprised
if I tell you - referring to what I will discuss further: when our bodies have the result that the share
of the company the proceeds of the joint work, apart from the 9 percent advance coverage for future
loads, if this proportion has fallen to 24-25 per cent of what the
course of the year for the work was paid, then it says: Thus far and
no further!

Because then something would come to the distribution, what its nature may not be distributed, which is collectively
owned, and that would be »Auspowerung" of the cooperative as such by their members, so a complete
depletion.

You see, that this matter is very serious to me, I will also explain to you why my is so serious,
so I do not at this point let me deal with: the 10 percent royalty, which we pay the other in
Paris, London, etc., have these people working in the also pay for. If you worked there, then
you would have on the yield of your work too much give to the place
where the source of these advanced products is.



"You heard a woman scream didn't you?" asked Bridge. "Do you suppose I can stay in up here
when a woman may be facing death a few feet below me?"

For answer the girl but held more tightly to his arm while the youth slipped to the floor and
embraced the man's knees in a vice-like hold which he could not break without hurting his detainer. Really was the gardener, which is equal in Christian Housing
was the stolen fruit, while Christian still fast asleep, it had a Part of the night by watching
and was firmly convinced that no one had seen him. - God sees But always and know to steer whatsoever,
then, that human justice is experienced and achieved that here on earth, the punishment to the criminals.

In
the beginning of Wilhelm heard just grumpy, he had had this pain
and pain Man who sat before him caused.

Gradually, however, softened the loving words his mind, and it was he often felt as it would
suddenly his soul day, falling as a veil before his eyes down and he realized a truth, this truth
was, however: Honesty is the best.

One day, when William had had a painless night and leave for the first
time the bed could, of course, with festgeschientem arm, asked the
president, he with his kind gentle Voice, "I say quite frankly, because
what you actually with your hand in my pocket wanted?

"

Wilhelm. I wanted to get out your wallet.

President. Did you not know that it was stolen?

Wilhelm. Oh, yes! I knew very well.

President. Did not you know that stealing was wrong?

Wilhelm.

I do not know so very well, I knew only that one is punished, if one find yourself left and I have
never caught me (here Wilhelm smiled triumphantly).

President. Did you steal for the pleasure?

Wilhelm. Yes! very large, especially when I started it right and if I sent a large Effort succeeded.
Also, I was happy when I brought something home, and at home could all you need.
President. Did your parents because that what you brought home, was
stolen property?

Wilhelm was silent embarrassment, he was afraid
to betray his parents, "parents," he said, sent me out with his sister
to beg - but it went too slow, we brought little together, barely
enough to buy bread and I wanted to but sometimes a bit Eat cake. "We're a nice aggregation of mollycoddles--five of us
sitting half frozen up here with a stove on the floor below, and just because we heard a noise
which we couldn't explain and hadn't the nerve to investigate." He rose. "I'm going down, rustle
some wood and build a fire in that stove--you two kids have got to dry those clothes of yours
and get warmed up or we'll have a couple of hospital cases on our hands."

Once again rose a chorus of pleas and objections. Oh, wouldn't he wait until daylight? See!
the dawn was even then commencing to break. They didn't dare go down and they begged him not
to leave them up there alone. Unfortunately this transcript was despite the care used in several Set to incomplete
to give a recognizable sense and it was unfortunately failed was that the minutes immediately
after their completion, as the meaning and text of the speech still fresh in my mind, was
supplemented by competent respectively. to be correct.

In view of this, it seemed the right thing at the present text as little as possible to change. Only
here and there for the understanding necessary particle is added, an obvious wrong conjugation
improves quite a few incomprehensible paragraphs are omitted been [21], but otherwise is the
available minutes on the following Pages printed verbatim. By the undersigned, for ease of understanding
here and then added words are marked by [] as such.

In this way, the speech-like but all the stylistic and linguistic deficiencies still, the a completely
free, without any concept held, lasting nearly three hours speech have probably always and will
have a relatively minor revision could be overcome. But it is for the greatest possible assurance
given that the original meaning of the statements unadulterated come to play. shall be taken for
those formal objections to the understanding the matter, the content of the speech, readers
easily override effort. Hopefully by the Author of the speech itself or even the leisure to
its then such an important subject treated versions look through
revise and complete.

                                        
                                                   Jena, 20 August 1903.

       

Dr. S. Czapski i. A.]

* * * * *

Values ​​work comrades!

As early as last summer I've taken from an external cause excitation, in this hall and to give
explanations in this circle to the Statute of the Carl Zeiss Foundation, and although about the
relationship of the companies of the Carl Zeiss Foundation to state and local [22]. I I was
already said that I would probably still have more than once occasion, to general Affairs - as the
explanation of the Statute of the Carl Zeiss Foundation - to come back.

Such an occasion is also now come. You know from the messages we initially the workers' committee have made
and which is now received from these gentlemen, that in our group differences in interests,
conflicts of interest have emerged, previously existed, too, but only in small, and as such, is
usually under the Surface have been held. Now they are really only at once to the surface come
and call for a scheduled adjustment. Since these are mainly but the question of a change in control
of the Arbeitslöhnung to the ratio of the chord to Time work, this one can discuss the points
of view from which this particular issue to treat us is not done more than make up the parties
are clear what because the relationship was between entrepreneurs and workers in our circle, between
the company as the bearer, Representative and owner of the company and all of the active labor
People in the businesses - and I expect you, and me and all my colleagues.

For I would resent it if you me and all those not on the vice and at the lathe work, did not want
to belong to the "working working" people in the farms. In this sense, the subject fixed in
the statute, announced since last year relationship between entrepreneurs and workers in our
establishments of an explanation, so that the right Matters for consideration
and settlement of these differences arise.

I must go back a bit far and I'm late to the real issue: the presentation of our Opinion, our intentions
on completion of the matter in detail to speak. I must You ask me to turn your attention and to
be prepared for the fact that me maybe a half hour to listen.

In a way, our bodies to pass a test of whether they are at the bottom can, by which conflicts of
interest, interest disputes on factual way, without hate and Bitterness, by peaceful means,
can be brought to a head. Before I proceed to these introductory Discussions: what is the relationship
between entrepreneurs and workers in our farms, pass over, but I want to preface a few words to
the discontent that I made some evidence and statements taken, had to allay the fears and To
dissipate as if our workers to the risk of serious harm to their interests were exposed. For this
I want to note briefly: it is all about a material relatively minor thing to a reduction in piece rates
within a certain percentage's Ratio. For those who take the hardest reform, it would at the
same low Results of business trends as in previous years no longer mean as a cut 5 or 6 per
cent of the income accounts, which she applied to the continuation of the recent establishment
would receive. This is something that material has no greater significance than in the opposite
Regard the establishment, which we started 3 years ago and led this year to the end have, by
virtue of which, every 16 days in the years that he is not working, paid in full. This also has
about 5 percent of the total labor income, identified in terms of increase, and more it is not,
what could possibly avoid it. And further, it is not - what I would like to stress especially
- to the effort, the labor income reduce the individual to ensure that the company receives a
greater return, but only about a fairer and more rational distribution
of labor income in its undiminished size bring about.

All those to whom as a result of the proposed changes somewhat withdrawn will have reduced not release
it to the company, but only to their comrades, on others, who were previously disadvantaged.

All
this being said, I come to this question: what is the relationship between workers and entrepreneurs
in our midst? I will discuss what happens in reliance on Title III, IV and VI of the Statute
of the Carl Zeiss Foundation. I want to go single present, I would say that whoever reads this
book carefully, must immediately come to the conclusion that the Optical Workshop, as it stands
since the inception of the Statute of the Carl Zeiss Foundation, since 1890, otherwise, as a
productive association in relation to the economic Interests. Ever since that time - this transition
is known only since July 1891, during the company has actually first October 1890 not on account
of the previous owner, but was conducted on behalf of the Carl Zeiss Foundation - The standards,
which in the previous Years have been published [23]. Then so is the owner of the company, no single,
No one, not even a majority of people, it is a legal person. A legal Person but is a being who
does not eat and does not drink, what not to dress needs, has no luxuries, no waste and drive
not enrich himself can, can also lead to a personal advantage from his position as an entrepreneur.
This legal person represents not, as with public companies, the interest of capitalists or capitalist
interests in general, for the capital that we need This must be the foundation for the work the company
put this in the amount available, as it requires the progressive development of a business
without her after dividends asked and whether how lucrative who gave the capital. The need
never return with the normal Hypothekenzinsfuß go out and can therefore not suitable be to raise
the value of the capital later. It's not like stocks, which later be sold at a value 150-200
per cent, there's not with us. Capital , the work against only to claim the fixed mortgage
rate, currently at the Capital will be awarded in this country, and a risk premium of 1 per cent
for the risk of loss, of any such mortgage is exposed and brought for the credit in ours must
be. We have almost 1 / 2 Million Mark in such a business such as the current Gang in strike,
and because it can easily happen that in these crises, or credit Topped we incur greater losses.
That is why we work with another 1 per cent has the extra Capital owners make.

This capital is owned in part the foundation itself, some are foreign creditors, their 4 per
cent due to get the issued bonds.

This is the need work to create better tools, etc. by the favorable conditions will suffice.
This Capital must provide the foundation always available and that the amount, in which it will
progressive development of a business requires. If you are in today dealt See page [24] the numbers,
so you can easily figure out how big our capital needs is. Each worker with us, from the youngest
to the oldest, takes about 3000 Marks and for every individual who enters into our operations,
this amount is made available, so that it is almost as if he himself mitbrächte those 3,000
marks.

The fact that this capital is always there, can not be withdrawn,
not in a position is to demand dividends, no more than the mere interest,
practically means that we Lord of the capital does not work, but servants
of the work.

The interest must be in the same , Be given how you have to pay as his servant. But it does
mean more added that this capital actually has the character of collective ownership and that
to the total number of people who work in our businesses. With the ownership of capital The
Foundation is true about the way to the capital owned by a municipality against its citizens,
it belongs to the citizens, not individuals, but they have a total capital available in the
farms of the community, to facilitate the loads, etc. So all have participated in have the advantage,
although they have no personal claim, it is them and not because they can not take it away,
do not pass on to their children, but only to their successors, to future citizens.

All of it is in terms of the ratio of capital held by the Foundation to the work activity our
cooperative: it's like a collective capital, which is not a single given it also can not be withdrawn.
It is very similar to a cooperative, which has acquired an equity
ownership of its resources to working together, but with the Difference
that this is not capital can be carried away. differs from a cooperative
our relationship only in that it at the exit of one of our circle
no notice and no repayment of the principal amount allotted to him
is, as yes and no purchase is entering.

Now the question is: which is of interest because now the company as a contractor on individuals
compared to when they do not represent the interests of capital? The question to be answered
only in this way: it represents the interests of all working professionals, all comrades against the
interest all individuals, the interest of the permanent community of all to the interests which
each individual has. It thus in particular the distribution of the income of working to regulate
between the workers and the cooperative, and it is the Carl Zeiss
only the name for this cooperative work in their permanent stocks,
after the idea of ​​a permanent and constant nature - in contrast
to the random group of people, each of the cooperative forms.

Then we ask: To what extent because these interests are different, the interest of the cooperative
as such, and the interest of each? It seems at first glance as if there is no No difference was
present, as if one and the same was. But that is only apparent. In fact, between these two things,
between the totality of all individual each form a cooperative, their interests and the interests
of the cooperative as such a very clear difference. First, there is the interest of an individual
Member of a cooperative is to the greatest possible benefit from the joint work to have, without
any further consideration for other persons and circumstances, and
each is located at best when he at some time get as much.

By contrast, the cooperative an interest not to distribute the entire proceeds of labor, but part of
the return retain this joint work as a common possession, as a collective property of various
interests, which I will mention yet.

These interests are in stark contrast to each other, just as the totality of all Citizens of
a community is opposed to the community as such. The totality of the citizens in Jena, for
example, would be best if the town one day her all property distributed among the citizens,
it would then certainly the amount each individual 20 M. Many would be safe in agreement. Would
the community but not better What to do if they earnings of that common property, such as the
surplus from the brewery and the gas station, rather than distribute them, serving to useful plants
and of all other Equipment used? Certainly! And everyone sees that the first method completely
absurd is.

The distribution may occur, although they correspond to the interests of the individual; the community
they may not take place because they, the interest of citizens exercise has that come after
20 or 30 years. The collective ownership must be maintained and be obtained, and its proceeds
may not be distributed as a collective learning.

Just as it is in our circle. Although represented by the Foundation no other interest can, as the
interest is a cooperative, as such, is serving a conflict of interest given that plays into all matters.
must be from material respects, the Firm hold on getting a portion of the total labor income as a
collective property and not to bring for distribution. The question arises: what principles
and theories this part is to be determined?

You'll tell me now, of course, when I say in regards to the regulation
of economic Interests of the company has a production cooperative
is: this is me a nice cooperative when the comrades in important matters
in respect of management and administration of the whole, nothing
have to say.

In a cooperative, the General Assembly to determine, they may have a Board or Supervisory Board,
which it no longer is content to settle and a new . Choose Many of you will say: Here we have
one of the foundation's statute [25] imposed board put up in the will may be many believe
that they would sell it in the next few years if they had to decide about it!

I am far from wanting to hide that difference.

On the contrary; If I take the time to say that the company regards the regulation of their become economic
interests in seven years, a productive association is so I have a particular interest to add the
same: but only as regards the arrangements economic interests - not even in regard to the administration
and management. I the eighth, which is to say: I would lead the cooperative completely different.
I appeal But the fact: all the steps that made the last twenty years for the benefit of the
company would have been, never been done be selected by the board of a cooperative General
Assembly, because it has been difficult enough, only two to four people to get matching resolutions.
 "There are three of us and we're awful hungry."

"Where yew stoppin'?" asked the woman.

"We're at the old Squibbs' place," replied The Kid. "We got caught by the storm last night
and had to put up there."

"The Squibbs' place!" ejaculated the woman. "Yew didn't stop there over night?"

"Yes we did," replied the youth.

"See anything funny?" asked Mrs. Case.

"We didn't SEE anything," replied The Oskaloosa Kid; "but we heard things. At least we didn't
see what we heard; but we saw a dead man on the floor when we went in and this morning he was
gone."

The Cases shuddered. "A dead man!" ejaculated Jeb Case. "Yew seen him?"

The Kid nodded.

"I never tuk much stock in them stories," said Jeb, with a shake of his head; "but ef you SEEN
it! Gosh! Thet beats me. Come on M'randy, les see what we got to spare," and he turned into
the kitchen with his wife.

The lanky boy stepped, out and planting himself in front of The Oskaloosa Kid proceeded to
stare at him. "Yew seen it?" he asked in awestruck tone.

"Yes," said the Kid in a low voice, and bending close toward the other; "it had bloody froth
on its lips!" 6), KRÜSS (German mechanic Newspapers 1905 No.
2), v. PIPE (Zeitschrift f. instrumentology 1905, third issue), MV (German Rundschau, Year
of birth 1905-06, Vol II), Wandersleb (Naturwissenschaftl. Rundschau
1905, No. 14).]

Content.

                                               

Page
      
        I. What are the social demands to the Liberal People's Party in their
        program? (1894) 1-59 A. Tax System 1 B. Worker 26 Annex (From "draft
        of a statute of the Carl Zeiss-Stiftung. ") 56

II
        memorial address to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Optical
Workshop (1896) 60-101

III.

On profit participation of the workers in heavy industry (1897).
      102-118

      IV on the basis of the wage system in the optical Workshop (1897)
119-156

V. On the issue of special taxation of the Store (1898) 157-169

VI.
The unlawful restriction on freedom of assembly in Grand Duchy of
Saxony (1900) 170-202

VII The economic significance of the shortening
of the industrial working day (1901) 203-249

VIII On the Tasks of
the Workers' Committee (1902) 250-261

IX.

Statute of the Carl Zeiss Foundation in Jena (text of Neuredaktion
      of 906 with variants of the edition of 1896) together Staff Supplement
(1900) 262-329

X. Motives and explanations on the draft Statute of
the Carl Zeiss-Stiftung (1895) 330-372

Xa.

Motives and explanations. Addendum to the second draft, Title V (1896)
373-387

Xb.

The Constitution of the Carl Zeiss Foundation. Notes on Title I
      and II of the Foundation Statute (1900) 388-402

      I.

What social demands to receive the Liberal People's Party in their program?

Two
      lectures, held in the open-minded club to Jena on 7 and
      21 March 1894.

      A. Tax System.

      Gentlemen!

      Our society has, as you know, decided on the design of the party program
of the Radical People's Party to participate in work.

We will try to work out that at the party, which is imminent in this
year, now neatly separate democratic Wing of the former German Radical
Party a clear and decisive position to take economic and social issues
that move the people.

And indeed do we try to work out that this opinion will be different
than they are could from the social policy views, which in the former
German Liberals remained in the Party and its predecessor, the Progressive
Party, the ruling forever.

Constantly we want to conflict with those whose political work is
aimed at the German people the greater degree of civil liberty and
self-determination to win even more, which the Nordic and Anglo-Saxon
branch of the Germanic tribe of a happier History before even centuries,
can be given.

And we are grateful to the men, the heavy time in the last 16 years the standard of political
progress still have held high and not discouraged by the overwhelming power of the opponents
and by the indifference the bourgeoisie, in that time if they were able to support only a few things,
but still much have saved that without her energetic and devoted work now also lost would be.
We still keep the possibility to the belief that only well-established institutions civil liberty
to all circles of the people active participation in its public Affairs to ensure the nursery
can make for sound economic and social States.

All this can stop us but not to give further conviction in our group already is certain: that
the Liberal People's Party, if they are in pursuit those political objectives, a more vigorous
factor in the progressive development of our public will remain life, now must pursue other ways
than in respect of several matters People of interest have been taken from its predecessor.

Every political party, we provide the alternative of either denying that in our economic institutions
and social conditions present at all seriously ill are, she claims that everything is in the
main, in good order and therefore to lay Improvements and reforms occasion did not before, or they
recognize evil as such really available - to make but also the obligation to cooperate positively
to eliminate on the path of legal reform, not caring which side it allies may hope to find
one or fear.

The former of the two positions is no longer possible for any of a liberal party least of all
for a party that the social emancipation of the working classes already has presented as a task so that
so pronounced, that exemption is not currently was completed. But if the existence of overall social
and economic ills of the national life once accepted, it is also recognized that these are evils which
necessarily nine tenths of the whole people - even if the individual
still partly unconsciously - touch need.

Evils of this kind against the once active intervention with real concrete Reforms reject Platonic
under the consolation: the progress in the direction of bourgeois and economic freedom they will
overcome in time by itself, would simply each make apparent that it would not eliminate this
evil either, or that they by way of legal reforms could not solve. And then that would be
fairly given, who maintain that these evils on the floor of the current state and social order
to not be overcome, but only by total circulation of this order and what to say then quite
logically, when such upheaval in peaceful ways should not be reached,
it will be better or worse, even violent ways to be must take place.

How foolish and harmful now, the improvement of the social democratic ideas are found like - have
no ideas to do it is still facing a lot of foolish and disastrous. Allowed to the social democracy
the privilege of being the only political party which has on the improvement of social conditions
have any ideas, they must be daily growing Circle of those who are the evils under which they
actually suffer, to consciousness, more and more of their hopes for the realization of these
ideas and put more and more see this party is the only instance of the action they have a general improvement
of their condition expect to have. And then the future belongs to the "future state"! That
the police club poor mental weapons have revealed the abundance of the attempt. A party, however,
which, though a "people's party" is called, "but in the great majority of the" people more and
more would lose the confidence that they have the will and the ability to just complaints provide
remedies in their ways, would soon force all to sustainable representation its purely political
objectives have lost. This force can only arise from closely related their efforts with those
thoughts, under which the broad masses of the people participation in public affairs is in each
case.

So our discussion has come under question: social demands which has a "liberal People's Party
in recording their program so they can lead their names with honor could?

I have offered me to take on this issue, the introductory talk, which first should try to create
documents in our circle for an understanding on the individual.

As to this, my legitimate, however I can not rely on a thorough, systematic study of the economic
and social theories, nor even that I as in the public discussion of these matters in practice
I have would have operated. First, like other my other obligations have me time and energy not
allowed to remain. This deficiency against me but I can rely on something in the way I have it,
can have many people do not own living experience. Because since about 25 years, I have been
in the midst economic bustle, on the ground the social processes and phenomena unfold. And although the
circumstances it with put itself - what I would have as a student I do not have dreamed of -
that I myself "entrepreneur"

     've become, namely one that the business activities of many other
     people, first of 20, then 100 and finally 500, in the forms of joint
     work fabrikatorischer to organize and conduct had - which I suppose
     in all circumstances be a useful and respectable profession.

However, since this activity was successful, so I'm going with the times by itself also become
a capitalist, that is one of those who accumulated earnings from
previous Working as a production tool for further work have hold.

So I have the opportunity had the phenomena of modern economic life in the area of ​​a single branch
of industry, at close to see, and thereby also won a key for understanding corresponding phenomena
in fields outside my own sphere. According to the Duties which my position imposed on me, I now
had to consider these phenomena always from the standpoint of the entrepreneur and the capitalist.
At the same time but I have always must look through the eyes of the workers' Son, not the contractor
under the hand and Capitalists eyes would grow. So I have these processes simultaneously by quite
opposite See sides can: on the one hand from the standpoint of business and capitalist interests,
other but also from the standpoint of the interests of workers - and then I have independent
may deduct from any influence by external considerations, from both a conclusion to me in the viewpoint
of public interest and the common good.

In this way I'm over the years come to certain views about the importance and effect of certain
facilities of our present economic order and state legislation and also on the causes, of which
individual to be considered to be particularly dangerous effects . Emerge These views, however, differ
greatly in many respects from that what to think and say in my circles for most applies to respectability.
However do I not hesitate to these views after I years to a guideline of one's actions made the now given
rise to also publicly and to represent appropriate cases. So I gather you the basics of my speech on
the question put earlier - by letting it depend on whether one or the other it would be found
as to be suitable as a starting point for new efforts de lege to serve ferenda in a liberal People's
Party. It would not be honest if I wanted to conceal it, that the first suggestion to our own opinion
to the Social Affairs has devoted to me from occasional personal contact with a the most important
and most honorable leaders of German social democracy. The older among You probably still remember the
propaganda speech which the "journeyman Drechsler August Bebel ' in the summer of 1871 has kept [2] here in
the angel hall. If even this in most respects my opposition challenged, it has given me a powerful
impulse in the face economic transactions in my circle always keep your eyes open, and especially
all I was involved to look at the strict sense of responsibility.

Furthermore, but I was of crucial help to shape my views of the important Observations of land
ownership reform, the me through the Scriptures and through our Flürscheims Friend, Dr. Harmening
has been brought closer.

* * * * *

My task now is only here: to make the points designated, present to which the recent efforts of
the liberal parties decided connection the development of the party program in the direction
of fruitful social reforms. I then have to show concretely that, compared with undeniable social
evils and dangers the current in the states are given real reforms that the evils of the Roots
go, do not just cure their symptoms, are possible without the revolution Social and economic
order, but by measures on the floor of the existing State institutions of the law - if the key
factors just want - can be initiated easily and progressively implemented. For it is not may act
to which any future ideals, their achievement, if at all possible, only the final result of a
centuries-long remodeling process would be possible, but certain requirements that are reasonably
imposed on the current legislation can. For the social program of a political party reform
only requirements may in Be eligible, the fulfillment, however great the resistance want to be, they
of pages expect to have some interest initially, but no more a requirement has, as the gradual overcoming
of such resistance.

There are now three points to which I respond in this sense here, remember: taxation, the "with
the" worker protection related issues and matters of public education.

       I refer, preferably on the draft program, which earned the leader
of the Trade association and cooperative efforts, Dr. Max Hirsch,
already on the first party congress the Radical People's Party has
introduced to take most of what design is that he will enter at the
next party conference in the heart of the debate.

Of course but I have not equally in mind that already a few steps further developed social
Program of the German People's Party, which connect with close contact in the northern German Liberals
have to consider as well is an important matter.

For this evening I will confine myself entirely to the way the first mentioned object, the taxation
questions - to which I have the following to install.

The combat system of indirect taxes and the requirement to instruct all state needs on direct
taxes are always the common aspirations of all truly liberal Parties in Germany. Of course, for
us to lose not a word about injustice and harmfulness of a common tax system, which the rich
relatively very little charged and, therefore, that in general "income-something," the vast
majority of the public burdens shifted to the mass of working people, but the fact of living
of the broad Classes of people must press down accordingly. The National Liberal Party, this
view divided, as long as they have in a different sense than was a "liberal" party today. - Admitting
is of course, that direct taxation of income, however, that injustice, as such, eliminate the more
perfect, could ever sharper in progression while the larger Income
would be used.

Nevertheless, I find the claim of such progressive Income tax is still a major social policy deficit. Indeed,
it is for a control system not enough that it purely for tax purposes considered to be correct
or just. In any political system, which is not straight will lead to the "future state", or the
disasters which announces that word must, I think the tax law is another, a specifically social,
state-preserving functions are assigned - namely, the regulator to be to provide for the relationship
between capital and labor, and the corrective to certain destructive effects of uncontrolled private-capitalist
mode of production.

Such destructive effects - whose existence and continual growth today
not art the speech is hinwegdisputieren more - are to be seen but
in the constantly increasing Tributary of work for the benefit of
ownership and the concomitant need to hand in progressive concentration
of ownership in an ever shrinking minority of the people.

From this point - I will immediately develop closer - I'm coming to the Program of the democratic
parties in relation to the taxation issue a substantially different
denominated debt to recommend to the legislature, anticipating that
I - just around here the target point of the subsequent discussion
to be identified - then formulated:

Elimination of indirect taxes
and elimination of all Taxation of labor income.

Statement of needs of state and empire to a pure property tax, which, according up progressively taxed
nearly all major asset to the Percentage of the respective soil and mortgage interest rate - in
the expressed intention of dropping the interest of the entire National wealth for the state (ie State and
Empire) in taking claim.

The justification of such a claim but I understand the following considerations.

* * * * *

The total assets of the German people is not much to beat at 200 billion be - all added together,
what of usable land, buildings in the city and Country, to the inventory of industrial and mobile
capital in Germany, and finds everything in the usual way according to his estimated income value. Makes
the point itself very uncertain determine, so it provides the income and assets sufficient statistics
Evidence that the lower limit could not be less than 160 billion.
 I reckon I threw away my four-bits on this book--it don't tell a feller
nothin' 'bout false whiskers, wigs 'n' the like," and he tossed the book disgustedly into a
corner, rose and descended to the barnyard. Here he busied himself about some task that should
have been attended to a week before, and which even now was not destined to be completed that
day, since Willie had no more than set himself to it than his attention was distracted by the
sudden appearance of a touring car being brought to a stop in front of the gate.

Instantly Willie dropped his irksome labor and slouched lazily toward the machine, the occupants
of which were descending and heading for the Case front door. Jeb Case met them before they
reached the porch and Willie lolled against a pillar listening eagerly to all that was said. 

B. Worker.

Gentlemen!

In the first part of my unit I have to justify the recommended program at that time claim had to
show that a source can not be undeniable economic grievances and accompanying social evil is really
given in the present relationship between capital and labor, namely, in that the recent development
of economic activity, the capital, that is all Holding more and more of a consumption serves
an indispensable asset accumulation Factor of all productive work and thus the entire work activity
depends on the possession has made. But then I further shown that the present adverse effects
this ratio are not due to his character itself, that in the mentioned Dependence of the work and not to the personal
ownership of capital, ie the private capitalist Production, and that not even a necessary consequence of the
very uneven distribution of property are, but only caused by the combination of that unequal
distribution of the property with a private interest economy. The way to eliminate this source
of coming evil now appeared to be within the existing political and social facilities given the fact:
the state is thinking over the fact that he himself is the real legitimate beneficiaries terms of
the total national wealth was all pure interest income and in this his own independent of income,
had he needed to collect in the form of property tax just to get out this source, rather than
from direct or indirect deductions from the labor income of its citizens, to contest his needs
and at the same time all the work activities of the people of all to relieve pressure through
effects of the unequal distribution of property.

The progress of my political observation leads me today to discuss a second Source of social evils,
which by nature is quite independent of the ratio between ownership and labor, and only in the ratio of
different classes of working people one another is.

The same train of economic development, which the yield of previous work as a capital made it
a major factor in all subsequent work, has also the form this work activity of the people changed
radically, and within the totality of the Working population by dividing the functions of
the class differences between employed and an employment or business and labor simply introduced.
Both this separation of functions and that assessment of property and assets as a working tool, is
all the same and were in the inner necessary connection, only in
this divorce and by virtue of winning the same property, its importance
as a capital.

200 years ago was all economic activity still completely and 100 years ago still almost entirely
free, independent individual work, for all of much the same character, only different the
nature of the work object. Excluded were only the production in those Districts in which the right of
the conqueror over the conquered continued to be effective, or exceptionally special legal institutions
permanent dependency caused by other individual had, but otherwise only very few trades, such
as the collection and preliminary processing of metals and other raw materials, shipping,
etc., where the inadequacy of the physical power of the individual at an early stage a cooperative
collaboration of many had initiated. The typical image of the original form of work is the old
master craftsmen, than with the apprentice and journeymen as members of his household, in the
family home Workplace, and with no other working capital as his tools, his product from the
first to the last completed and economically and personally in any other relationship or Dependence
was the same as his. There were also employed in this work form Workers, which, the apprentices
and journeymen, but were not the master than another Class of workers to their lack of independence was,
rather, only the precursor and preparation later to independence, which usually reached after
all, and its temporary Dependence was in essence only the dominion of the student against the
teacher and the subordination of the household by the head of the family, not only economic rather
than moral Article

Even today, this type of old master craftsman in the industry and its corresponding in production,
trade and transport have all represented, where small businesses of any kind has been preserved. But
everywhere we see this kind of economic work pushed back and clearly understood in fortdauerndem
gave in to a very different, new form of work according to which each a greater or lesser number
of people, certainly much more of their more than could ever be in their self-trades master, as permanently
employed Workers in the service of contractors are working - separately in special work sites
of their families, with extensive sharing of the various technical tasks for each individual work
product, and using elemental force, as well as valuable machinery, large buildings and other
facilities, which procured by previous work of others are. They consequently the activity is aimed
at the individual no longer produce of a complete whole in itself, but only on production of the portions,
which afterwards joined by others to be employed care to the whole - everything according
to not own intentions, but according to plan and provision of the undertaking, which alone retains a
real initiative Objective and procedures of the Thesis. This join but the physical performance
and the technical skill of the workers new powers which part of the company personally Notes
approach brings some by others who likewise in his service as a Dependent stand. They are the spiritual
forces of the organization, which not only the structure and the right combination of individual
work tasks and assign rules continued, but are also creating more new drives, new tasks of
economic and technical Kind raise, devising new ways and finally also the functions of the merchant
of the union activity incorporate the whole. - Well-organized the joint work of many over the
individual work of the old small business.

One has only to clear both in his nature to imagine, to also be aware
immediately, why small business is forced back by the large farm and
retreat before him ever must.

Not the advantage of size in itself makes it, the purely economic gains, Expenses at a greater
scope of business is entirely the secondary. The organization is which the far greater, to be replaced
by anything else gives superiority by entirely different forces that can never be united in
one person instead of completely different people with different skills and different training
carried to be in such a way to interface brings that they complement each other and thereby the
economic effect of increased gigantic physical strength and mental power of produce. - At the
same time also shows that capital does not create the capitalist mode of production, but conversely,
the progressive naturalization organized to work together much the property and assets, the importance
of working capital as a factor in the first place awarded added. The steam engine as a tool of individual
thought, is the most useless thing in the world, much less valuable than simple Hammer, first as a
tool of the joint work of many tenfold to their physical strength. Before any gain which machines
the work value could have had his organization there. Capitalist production is absolutely nothing
other than the organized production - and vice versa.

* * * * *

The changes which the progressive spread of the new form of production
so far produced in the national life has and always will continue
to produce in certain prospect, some very unpleasant kind are the
most important ethical factor in all work the joy of creation itself,
which arises from the fact that one's work and grow gradually a whole
will be seen, the wage and salary workers as a result of the strong
division of labor stunted.

       No longer living intuition, but rational reasoning can it still bring
to consciousness that he is working on a whole, which, completed by
others, have a real value. is from a source of immediate joy of life
for so a lot of work to professional standards, performance of a contract
made.

In addition nor the loss of beneficial suggestions, which granted the possibility of own initiative
and the feeling of being free from the strict time constraint of the work and the necessary subordination
to other people who have to direct the work. The division of labor but also undeniable direct
disadvantages, or at risk, in the wake. The greater uniformity of the work of the individual, the
lack of frequent change of treatments, makes the activity more tiring, and can it, especially
when even the very increased tension of attention in the work with machines is added to a
Cause mental dullness do. The one-sidedness of the employment, however, which for long time always
the same organs makes use, is likely obvious disadvantages produce for the physical well-being.

On
the other hand, however, is precisely the division of labor, not only in respect of all disparate
functions of mental and physical activity, but also within the Territory of the purely technical
tasks, the most important lever economic progress in all commercial activities. Because of
the limitation of the teaching and practice a tight circle of tasks increases for these tasks
skill and dexterity a high degree. Ten unilaterally trained persons who are in their work against
each other well afford to supplement, not only a lot more, but also much better than ten others,
otherwise identical, are more versatile designed and practiced, unless the subject of very diverse
tasks requires. - The ancients among my fellow-workers - some of which I in this meeting see
- still remember the time when the division of labor in our operations only to the division
the technically entirely dissimilar work had progressed. You know how much more enjoyable Back
then, 30 and even 20 years ago, their work for them all was still,
as two of them, or maximum of three, acting together, an elaborate
instrument of the raw metal and glass pieces make it out to the last
completion ready used to.

But you can also testify that what they are that way with all the effort put state, but not
from that of could achieve what is now easier by cooperation of ten or even several thousands
achieved. The technical division of labor enhances not only quantitative performance work, but
it also increases the quality level of performance. We estimated this now the importance that
the division of physical and mental functions in the organized labor by economic gains that they
have a constant, regulated participation specially trained technical and business, even if
suitable scientific Forces causes, and expects to add at last even the immediately apparent advantage
the organization has the potential and actual use of capital as a working tool, there can be no doubt keep
in mind that the new work form a very extraordinary progress introduced in the economic activity of
nations and continues to perform is called.

* * * * *

This is also said that the distinctive characteristic of the new economy of Work independently and
dependently employed in a necessary attribute of the economic order has become. This could be
such persons which physical even though not directly on the Work to take part, but organize
the collective work of many and lead and have to be made capable, by no longer do without. Enterprise in
this Sense is therefore a very necessary institution of the economic system has become. And since
the exercise nature of the case that relatively few special features, the vast accessible to
the vast majority of organized and directed, that includes the dependently must, so now there is the
social impact of organized labor, in proportion as they are more widespread, in the divorce
of all the people regarding the work activities in two Classes, from very different functions,
accordingly, different rights and obligations and therefore need different interests, with the additional
stipulation: small minority against large majority - what was for centuries the most solid basis, the
actual been the core of nationhood, the economically independent
and personally independent Citizens and peasants, must disappear in
proportion as small businesses in industry, trade and farming is being
pushed back as far as such rather than on individual economic territories,
B. in agriculture, the transition to the small community, organized
labor on the way like the cooperative education of equals taking place.

That

       class and interest divorce within the totality of the work force is
but founded so much in the nature of the new form of work that even
the most radical transformation of our State and social order could
not override it, except by complete regression of all economic activity
to the old single economy.

Because of that organized opposition within the Work activity is by nature quite independently
of whether one part of the capital owns or manages and only if these under the name of private entrepreneurs
or government officials acts. He has nothing to do so with the private-capitalist production, but
only with the capitalist, that the organized production. would "Even in the" state of the future
for construction, not just clever enough carpenters and machine even the most capable not
be forged at the same time, the engineers and dispatchers can. Also, the state of the future
So INCAPABLE the opposition of interests, from which the necessary diversity of Functions and
powers of the springs, not remove, and could only be reasonable Legal institutions regulate
its effects - what the current state but also, if he wants.

* * * * *

In contrast to the previously characterized: entrepreneurs and workers, but is also the only
real class conflict, that conflict of interests between certain classes of persons, the economic
from the point of our social order includes. The contrast reasons of capital and labor in itself
is no establishment. For it is by nature a very impersonal contrast between the two economic
factors, ownership and work activity, and represents only the interests of the totality of all
working people which the population of all Haves over.

These populations correspond but not clearly delimited Classes. For both term spheres overlap
to a large extent and only at the periphery arise where they are entirely out of each other,
opposing groups, one part of those own nothing and a lot of work, on the other hand, from those with
a lot and nothing work economically. All, however, that their possession, he was a small field or a large
fortune, even economies are capitalist in the true meaning only in so far as their economic
returns on the pure interest rate to contain the flow to them in their sleep would if they were other
economies with their belongings; respect of all that they achieve more than this rate, but
they are working professionals. Of these, even the shareholders of joint stock companies not excluded,
so far their dividends above the net mortgage moderate Also include interest on capital or profits of
enterprise. Because the latter is based on a work activity of the entrepreneur, and it makes
no difference that those kind of work activity is not itself but by councilors to exercise.
- At the very impersonal nature of the opposition: Capital and labor, is based there, too,
that the effects which build on this contrast is - And the economic effects of the difference
between rich and poor - deleted may be measures which the economic
relationship of the individual to individual leave untouched - as
I have indicated in the first part of my speech.

       

In contrast, but the difference rooted in the personal functions and rights, added to all organized
labor between entrepreneurs and salaried workers is a real class difference, because he economic within
the universe of work people and provides social interests of certain classes of persons in
unavoidable conflict. This Contrast, however, by its nature quite independently of the back between capital
and labor, only very outwardly he is often with him. For the tenant, which is a erpachtetes
Well managed, or the industrialist, who works primarily with borrowed money, as well the manager
in any business ventures, which, like the Directors of public companies or leading officials of state
enterprises, just as Councilors serve the owners of capital, are exactly as working capital over
the workers so as their workers because they get so the interest does not require the capital,
but with the workers have to help raise him up, yet they are entrepreneurs but also the workers
employed in sharp class conflict with regard to personal and economic interests. And if in
many cases, a capitalist and entrepreneur Person meets such as the landowner who farms his land itself,
or the industrialist, who works only with private property, so also in these cases the Class
conflict not looking at the ratio of workers to the capitalists, but only in which the entrepreneur
into a dependent worker.

Here he frowned meaningly upon Willie Case. The youth trembled and stammered.

"I never seen her afore," he cried. "I don' know nothin' about it. Honest I don't." But the
girl did not quail.

"You get out," she commanded. "You a bad man. Kill, steal. He know; he tell me. You get out
or I call Beppo. He keel you. He eat you."

"Come, come, now, my dear," urged Bridge, "be calm. Let us get at the root of this thing. Your
young friend accuses me of being a murderer, does he? And he tells about murders in Oakdale
that I have not even heard of. It seems to me that he must have some guilty knowledge himself
of these affairs. 

From the above assumptions justified for me the effort that Title V of the Staff Title and
content expresses: for the whole group of people the current Foundation Activities Workers of the public right
of imperial trade regulations and the relevant sections to replace the Commercial Code by a
better private "workers and employees right," namely that public rights to such persons permanently
except by application to To get that working and employment contracts of the Foundation farms
everywhere further Rights imposed on grant and is created to secure the greatest possible guarantee.

*
* * * *

       

As the essential and all strove also indispensable foundations for this way Improving the condition
of the workers and private employees subject I must watch:

1. Precise clarification of the contractual relationship between staff and obligation holders of
the enterprises, bezgl its organs, according to a strict legal concept - the dictates of this
Duty ratio of final to clean it all, still adhering to conventional accessories of personal dependence,
submissiveness, etc., which means to the detriment of the weaker Part does not apply because the
contractor a tangible return for the law and good Custom is believed to offer not even a personal
history but in any consideration larger company can not offer, so in short, firm guarantees against
the abuse economic dependence of employees and workers to limit personal and civil rights (§
§ 57, 58 of the Statute).

2. Exact boundary of the temporal limitation and restriction of liberty, which the co-operation inevitable
in many of industries is in recognition of the principle: that this temporal Restriction of liberty
should not be wider than the important interests of the establishment, not have consideration
for any small benefit of businesses, areas (§ § 61, 62 of the Statute).

3.

Ensuring such standards for the regulation of his employment and wage determination, which are
capable of legitimate economic interests of workers to effectively protect (§ 66 of the Statute).

4.
Ensuring not to diminish the once granted regular wages or salary
unchanged at constant work - except in the case of the entrepreneur
demonstrable hardship (§ 67 of the Statute).

5.

Restriction of the entrepreneur in the unilateral termination of employment or employment contract, after
it has been continued by a certain time - through binding Determining an appropriate compensation
in the event of involuntary redundancy, even when such external causes that do not conform to
the will of the entrepreneur, but expect to regularly in the industry, is caused (§ § 77-80
of the Statute).

6. Legally binding guarantee of certain non-pension benefits for the
alms-like Disability after a certain moderate, period of service (§
§ 72-75 of the Statute).

       

* * * * *

The first four points to the relevant provisions of the statute only codify rules been considered
with regard to all of the basics in the current holdings Foundation has always have - in the beginning,
as it is only a small staff acted the part of the then Holders exercised almost unconsciously,
but long since out openly as a fixed maxims, for the most fixed part already written down
by years in work rules. On their practical I have therefore effectively in-depth personal experience.
So I know that the implementation of that Principles has indeed compelled, to the main intermediaries
between the top institutions the entrepreneur and the workers, the foreman, much higher demands
to ask, as they are to be made if they are allowed to swing a police baton. These Principles,
it is possible to have the companies - which still has a nearly 20 years, the forms of wholesale
operations and for a number of years a staff of about 500 has around - always keep it in good order
and peaceful cooperation of all, and Although in the total abandonment of the most "respected
indispensable tool for the" punishments. These principles, too, and the corresponding to them, saying
the resulting principles for the rules of interaction and personal communications between
superiors and subordinates, I have to write it, that the Foundation's holdings, in contrast to
the popular complaints "About unreliability, Unfleiß, indifference of the" subordinate, in
all layers of their Personnel, from the simple worker to the chief magistrate, a very noticeable
large Number of people may enjoy, the pattern of devotion to duty, with full dedication and
responsibility of the highest reliability their missions - including many with a stiff backbone,
the paternal tutelage look very contemptuous, react against arbitrary but very rugged would.
Even those in the local labor organization have inserted themselves more readily. - I say now,
what has given the local enterprises to those particular preference is of the foundations of their
existence. Because of the difficult field of work, which in itself represents the power of
the people more demanding than most other industries, can an operation if he has outgrown
even quite peripheral, not quite on excellent work less senior people remain well founded. The
mere preservation a high level of technical performance, much more so any progress in the direction
the new functions that now require necessarily that a lot more - a big part of all Participants
- continued with a lively personal interest, constant reflection on their own Drives and with far
more than merely requiring excessive zeal in the work of the whole share . Take

       * * * * *

Regarding the previously mentioned 5 and 6, by § § 72-80 of the Statute further regulated economic
rights of workers and employees is to be noted that even here the most important and difficult
step from the financial point of view, the provision of solid Pension rights, already been done
by the previous owner of the current holdings Foundation , and that is therefore in this point
in the main, required by the Foundation only ensure the continued and continuous, which began
before they occur. My former comrades and I, came as the cause, the issue of disability and pension
our staff to come here - in the preparations for it 10 years ago - we determined to not "pension
fund" for the given model of the welfare institutions justified, but simply make a declaration:
it should from the employment itself any actionable under 5 years of service pension claim against
his company in case of disability, and for the death benefit of his dependents, are entitled - in accordance
with the detailed provisions one immediately after the death of the founder of Optical Workshop and
the date of his Anniversary of the death statute enacted pension. This measure has then already
under the express Point standing: the large-scale industry is driving to the detriment of all common
adverse Predation on the physical strength of the people, if they are not out set up to pay
on its own for the full, regular and exceptional, consumption of human labor in their Holdings, so if
you use this as a non-solid economic factor, as well as all the amortization of the dead equipment,
included in its economic management. Because only Fictions that ignore all the real situation
is artificial, could claim be that even in the current market wages each a payback rate for the
gradual consumption of their forces was given - what thoughts of course, the public Law for
the time being only in respect of State officials and the rest still in the accident insurance
law with regard to the exceptional power consumption of the people in the industry to fully recognize.

The
previous holder of the Foundation's operations have begun in time, the fulfillment of the above sense commitments
to ensure, as far as this was possible at that time, by statement
of their personal property confiscated from Pension Fund annual Reserves
of each 6% of the total wage and salary account of the two companies
- which fund afterwards of the Carl Zeiss Foundation as the foundation
of its current reserve fund has been transferred.

The Carl Zeiss Foundation in § § 77-80 of the Statute further obligations imposed - under something
which expresses only the new factual § 77 - aim now in the first place the final Ensure the
pension institution.

This would be the reputation and the value of a real Rights institution of the Foundation are
entirely forfeited, if the faith of their permanent Stock would remain based on the confidence in the
future to live, and later next, unknown people - if they would therefore not yet completed by such
Arrangements that provide objective guarantees that it no higher than certain, all arbitrary
discretion confiscated conditions are again set out effective can. We therefore need all the
back doors are closed tightly, through which the provisions of the Pension Regulations, be
it only in thesi = =, could ever be bypassed.

So too have eliminated such purpose and at any suspicion, as should any herein remain a subject
may appear to be necessary to a determination as to § 77 applies,
to ensure But this, finally, the securitization of the § 67 PRINCIPLE
- which otherwise the latter might well appear to be superfluous,
because it is in itself says nothing further, than what enjoin good
faith anyway.

The provision of § 77 will therefore first give everyone the assurance that when the a has acquired
some corresponding service defined benefit pension at some time and it without any fault for
any reason, interest on operating could be employed in the service
of the Foundation, he then shall the monetary value of lost Vesting
approximately representing compensation shall be granted - and that
those opposite, the result of a long period of service only limited
chance of advancement otherwise have a have had to force the amount
of compensation due the contractor of a dismissal at all to see.

The § 67 finally secured against all possibility of reduction of the fixed salary or Content
- what the law of the Imperial Industrial Code and the Commercial Code, always depending on 14
days, would allow the entrepreneur bezgl 3 months - are indirectly forced to can the employment relationship,
in turn give it to him and to all adult entitlements to do without.

* * * * *

The above relates to represent only one side of the stationary measure in question. By the §
77 In the economic order of the Foundation farms introduced novelty nor its independent Importance,
both required by law, especially as even in social terms - the importance it warrants, even requires,
the arrangement of § 77 no means to have acquired limited to those
persons who deferred rights, but they to a general "unemployment"
embody the Foundation's holdings, as does § 77th

For if someone presumptively
by prolonged stay in an industrial operation, the Intention to put
the day to look for is a permanent activity - what the entrepreneur
always served with a special advantage - and if the other implied
by longer approved continuation of the contract apparently states
that he has this been acceptable, it has a more stringent legal view
as outrageous game with the interests of the weaker Part appear, if
after the contractor, except in the case of real emergency, those
should can dismiss any, because for him it has now become more favorable,
the other not to employ more, or because of any decency in the person
to continue have prevented the employment contract until then.

       A non-plutocratic degenerate legal term must make the claim: that
in all cases in which a bona fide for a long time = = continued employment
or employment relationship is terminated unilaterally by the employer
is for reasons of his interest - that is his advantage because, even
if this advantage only to avoid adverse effects would be - the victim
adequate compensation to make sure is that his expectation is not
fulfilled and he presumptive - as is the Rule in fact the case - in
the meantime, opportunities for advancement OTHERWISE has failed.

At the same areas but also important considerations of public (social) Interest that those
who became unemployed in such compensation is a sufficient support was necessary to obtain a new
work position, which often in a short time, usually only to see significant sacrifices for the
person concerned is - not so much of those according to the known effects of the legal proceedings
that populate the highways and last of poor relief would expire.

* * * * *

Specifically, the Title V to be noted that:

To § 57, 58

The strict boundary of the contractual duty ratio has been the participation the manager and the
officers at the personal affairs of the other never disabled and needs in the future not to
hinder it. They should only be the operation of these Participation in advisory or warning on a higher
ethical level received by it the relationship between superiors and subordinates eliminated completely,
it only personal Reputation and personal trust can apply.

To § 61

The aspirations of the working class in favor of an established regulated and limited to moderate
duration I think working perfectly just and expedient for the people well, and I come to them,
under what flag they might go, without reserve one, marked with the aim of: Third Lung of the day,
at least for all the hard work and especially for all industrial work in indoors.

I would see no decency, even in the Optical Workshop of the nine-hour day immediately reduce to 8
hours, as in some urban farms the same or related field of work is
already done, if not to take would be for the then offered greater
economy with regard to the use of time - especially the "working through"
with only a brief respite, by deploying the main meal at the end of
the day - Will be the parties under the present conditions as unwelcome
the current long working hours, together with two two-hour breaks,
in a small City to relax undiminished benefit [82].

       

To § 62

With respect to granting leave is in respect of all those whose work stoppage no obvious disruption
of the operation brings about the practice since a long time actually liberal than can be fixed properly
be in the form of the legal right - as it show that the foreman to overt instruction adults when
they Seek leave to ask at all after the "Why, unless a specific reason because of the "if" to negotiate
with them.

To § 63

The principles are described in this paragraph for the current company health insurance the current
foundation companies = = force in practice, since its first ground about 20 years ago. The
box office is stuck with it entirely free from the often-to-find
aversion to the Forced cash, even after it had become such a law.
- General Assembly and Board, entirely originating from free elections
by all legally authorized insured without vote of the Executive Boards
in them, except for amendments to the articles, mostly procedural
some fiscal as the company management is dear and follow their advice
elsewhere often do not - which is their right, and in effect at least
better, as if reluctantly should follow those, but she manage all
affairs of the fund with care and diligence and its substantial annual
budget of about 12,000 M [83] with a conscience Treasury.

 When they returned a few minutes' labor revealed that so much of Willie's story was
true, for a quilt wrapped corpse was presently unearthed and lying upon the ground beside its
violated grave. Willie's stock rose once more to par.

In an improvised litter they carried the dead man back to Case's farm where they left him after
notifying the coroner by telephone. Half of Burton's men were sent to the north side of the
woods and half to the road upon the south of the Squibbs' farm. There they separated and formed
a thin line of outposts about the entire area north of the road. If the quarry was within it
could not escape without being seen. In the mean time Burton telephoned to Oakdale for reinforcements,
as it would require fifty men at least to properly beat the tangled underbrush of the wood.

                        *****

In a clump of willows beside the little stream which winds through the town of Payson a party
of four halted on the outskirts of the town. There were two men, two young women and a huge
brown bear. The men and women were, obviously, Gypsies. April (47.5 hours) | 2552 | 53.7 | 27.7 | 100:119,5 5. April-11.
April (47.5 hours) | 2397 | 50.5 | 24.5 | 100:105,5 12. April-18. April
(Easter week) | Vakat 19. April-25. April (48 hours) |
2475 | 51,6 | 25,6 | 100:110,2 26. April-2. May 1st excl May | | | | (40
hours) | 2086 | 52.2 | 26.2 | 100:112,9 ------------------------------------+-------+-----
    --+-------+----------- An average of 23 working days | | 52.0 | 26.0
| 100:112,0 | | | |

                                    Annex 2

Condition equation for the physiological balance of the industrial work performance:

daily consumption of forces (fatigue) = daily forces replacement (recreation).

V

= E

1. V is the sum of three parts:

= A =) a portion of each for a specific individual, only the size of the daily work-product
(P) is proportional, but regardless of the pace of work, so regardless of the Production of P
similar period;

= = B) a component, which is also proportional to the work product, but also depends on the rate of
work performance and with the acceleration (ie, shortening of P related
to the production of time) in general is growing (power consumption
for speed resistance);

= = C) a third part, which, independently
of the first two parts, only the daily Working hours (a) is proportional
to - according to the power consumption for "neutral gear" in machines.
- Also:

V = αP + βP ° F (1 / a) + γ * a

Herein described:

= A =
the daily working hours;

α, β, γ numerical coefficients for a particular
type of work for a specified Per person are constant;

= = F (.) Is
a function that grows with increasing argument (ie, with decreasing
= a =).

2.

E depends on the energy of life functions (i intensity of metabolism), by Person to person depending
on age, hardiness, nutritional status is different, etc., and also
on the duration of the daily rest period which, in hours, 24 - is
= a =:

E = i φ (24 - a)

where φ (.) denotes a function that grows
with increasing argument, anyway.

Thereafter, the physiological balance equation between work product, and duration of daily Employment
type:

αP + βP ° F (1 / a) + γ * a = i φ (24 - a)

For any particular person and any specific type of work that is, the
daily work product at a specific maximum daily working hours and shorter
working hours must be as long as there have increased daily output
the result as the profit for the daily Forces replacement of the extended
rest period and the savings in power consumption for "neutral gear"
together are even greater than the power consumption for accelerating
the pace of work.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 35: [This Transcript is from E. ABBE one myself - however fleeting - review subject.
Cz.]]

[Footnote 36: [JOHN RAE, the eight-hour workday. Weimar, Felber E., 1897.]]

[Footnote 37: [Printed at the end of the second lecture].]

[Footnote 38: [Also published at the end of the second lecture].]

[Footnote 39: [Later, E. ABBE the relevant figures more closely, according to the rules of probability,
discussed and the whole of his previous assumptions corresponding
result in a narrower circle of friends presented.]]

[Footnote 40:
[namely, as a result of the now occurring overall increase in power
consumption, up to the limit of capacity of the former machine was]]

[Footnote
41: [p. 2.

Addendum 'equation of condition, etc. ".]]

[Footnote 42: ABBE even measured almost 2 m, but was very thin.]

[Footnote
43: Maximum 53, minimum 22 years.]

[Footnote 44: Maximum 33, minimum
4 years.]

VIII

The Tasks of the Workers' Committee.

Paper presented at the meeting of working committee of the company
Carl Zeiss, 27 January 1902.

After one of the speakers viewed by Transcript (than in 1903 in Jena
Vopelius Manuscript printed by a non-copy seen by the speaker of the
shorthand).

MH! I welcome the newly elected workers' committee, I welcome the old members who we see in
some cases for years lived here, as well as those who for the first time have gathered here,
and express the hope that even this year, as before, may redound our negotiations the workers
and the companies' advantage.

I ask you now to allow me, before moving on to the agenda, a general Overview of the institution
that we have under the name of workers' committee to give and thereby express the view that I
and my colleagues about it on the basis of experience during the last five-year period have won,
and to tell you how in our Opinion in the course of the next few years, matters of the working
committee treat has to be conducted.

The reason for this is given first in the fact that five years have passed since the Establishment
of the permanent committee is working in our businesses. A five-year Period at a new facility
provides more reason to look back on what you obtained in these five years of experience has,
and a summary of what we think we should recommend that this experience shows in the future. It
is also still add a special circumstance, namely, that just recently the establishment of the Workers' Committee,
as it exists with us, several times the subject of public criticism has been. Once done this
in a meeting convened by the Secretariat workers during the last summer had been, where more than
among the objects of the negotiations a lecture workers committees was recognized, and a second
time at a meeting of a local union and that also, following a lecture on working committees.
This criticism is often disparagingly been, in some respects our view is not quite according to
us but also some useful hints given.

In terms of these two factors that we look back on five years in and that, moreover, have been
added from other statements that some consideration can benefit from it, I would like to once more generally
discuss the question: What Tasks and purposes of such a body can reasonably under the circumstances
meet and which not? and then then ask: What is the result of a retro look the last five years and what
are the directives for the future that we conclude ? See

I begin to remind that the basis on which the workers' committee is
based, is given by a provision of Title V of the foundation's statutes,
which generally does not require that there are such a standing committee
must, however, stating that, if a committee is entitled to general
powers, it must satisfy certain requirements would - namely that he
must have a minimum of 12 members, that he every year of a complete
renovation by direct secret ballot was subject on the part of all
over 18 years old national operational and that the passive voting
right must be limited to the adult, at least a year in running business
in the ordinary wage-earning workers.

Furthermore, the committee must be empowered, even without the invitation of the Executive Board
would meet, and have the right in all affairs of the company at its request by the management
be heard.

To mark the animus, in which these provisions have been given, I want the Men read what I wrote
down 6 years ago in the motives of the statute on this point have, and it does this relate to the
current § 64 of the Statute:

"Until now, the foundation's holdings have been no reason Rights that each individual worker and the other,
the Management entitled, continuously on a special transfer intermediary, it has only a few cases behufs
Negotiate certain issues, the election of a committee ad hoc caused.

But if, as it is likely to sooner or later an on-going need for intermediary is, this number
should be a real representation of workers do not a gate, behind which recently put the business back
can.

     It will thus be constituted in all things that they have the full
     confidence of the workers, must be represented their interests
     to be - so the managers, if they has come in any matter,
     representation in the pure, can accept, even with all the workers in
     the clean to be. "
     
     I refer it to the generalization that in regard to workers' committees
     been made, as they often are, which are said to be material "decorative"
     Article I say, if this is true elsewhere, I have the right to take
     claim to say, "except for the working committee of the company Carl
     Zeiss."
     
     That we do not pursue such a purpose, you look exactly the way how we
     consider it with the workers' committee. If someone is decorative,
     the social gaps with roses to cover, set up a working committee,
he does not have the zeal, a independent, to create from the influence
of the entrepreneur independent representation, then try he is not
to ensure that's not in the selection of persons of the entrepreneurs
behind can not insert and that the operating officials play a role,
giving the Committee especially not the privilege that it is independent
and without the assistance of the entrepreneur could meet and should
be heard in all matters.

I just want to say to the opinion that all workers' committees are decorative Art would have,
and the local is not. How low or how high the rest of its value hit
may, decorations he is not.

It is true that the workers' committee has limited powers, he has essentially only the Authority
in all matters "belongs" to be a consultative participation in all matters the interest of the
workers touch. There is very little to say "advice, Here, however, to distinguish whether to give
someone his advice has the right only if he asked is or even if he is not asked - our workers'
committee to advise the right even if he is not asked. This is the first. Second: The right
to be heard, seems at first not much to say and it says do not even
know that that sounds something It then had to do.

Now, it is only in Germany, the Federal Council of the Diet moves over so that he the one
who has the right to be heard, is no answer; with each other we will treat this as rude and inappropriate.
Since you now assume more may that these measures are taken and written
down the statute on the assumption that it is the traffic between
decent people, so you can safety have, that is to be divided so that
the directors are not only all that the Committee submits listening,
but also give an answer is always that decently must also always be
reasoned.

I think on closer inspection you will find that the right to be heard, of a certain valuable
rights is when you do it right use to understand.

At least now the question remains: what could have a committee or for rights? It's repeatedly in the
public discussion was the fact that rights are so insignificant that it is generally not worth
talking about, yes, the Committee could in no case a key word to speak, he was instructed
only to working with the management negotiate, and must put up with that just happens to what the
Board accepted, and that's not what they do not accept.

What powers such a committee otherwise than in the present circumstances, which Powers he might
have about "in the" future state, we can not discuss it here. We must reckon with the circumstances.
And as I say, all the powers to make decisions to make are limited in two directions very closely
and it must remain: first in regard to those who will represent the Committee, to the entire
workforce. Any right to decide that the Committee is enclosed, means a corresponding reduction
the rights of others, it means that the working committee will decide in cases in which each
individual has to decide any more. So for example if we agree would that be agreed by contract,
that certain matters, such as small deviations from the regular working
hours and other matters that we have always been by vote have done
in the workshop, would be decided in future by the Committee, it is
that: reduce the rights of the individual, the representative then
has the right, in his opinion to vote, even if he represents a different
opinion.

Well, I democrat old will never agree to a device that limited the rights of those represented
on the Advantage of the representatives. For me, any parliamentary body, only a means over the obstacle
to get over having to negotiate with a large majority, so only a means to an end. If the committee
would settle at all major powers, where it concerns matters of greater importance, so I would
always say, under the Subject of the referendum. It is also done to date; after the matter in
committee was sufficiently clear that the vote was left to the community.

That

is, I say, a restriction in relation to the workers' committee may be the fair Powers, a limitation
in the other direction would be to the workers' committee powers settle, in accordance with the
present facility and the prevailing conditions in our senior management had been added. The condition
would make here is that the workers' committee and the Responsibility would be transferred,
this is so requires proper consideration for the existence of the Operation. If the "future state"
conduct such as the working committees of the large farms should, it would only be possible if they have
the responsibility. If it But now a question to ask if we do not give the workers' committee
Rights could, until now had the management, we can reasonably only so under present conditions,
by asking ourselves: can the management roll under the present circumstances reasonably the responsibility
on the committee?

I say: If it is not excluded that in both directions may Once a committee other than the rights granted
to him yet further powers crucial Art had to respect both to the working comrades and other senior
management should, so that is under the present circumstances but only in relatively narrowly
defined Travel possible, and I stress this only so that reasonable people are not the allegation
Make that here things are unreasonable or trying to be.

Well, that relates generally to the question of what powers and rights is a workers' representative
could gradually acquire in the future, following the existing - that rights given to should be absolutely
no one will want to ask.

Now I turn to the other question: what has for our workers' committee in the past created five years?
A compilation of various items of the negotiations those five years shows that on the one hand, we discussed
a large number of issues have that hardly have a significant interest for all, and we also have
other a large number of important matters in the view of the interest of the workers not only
discussed but also encouraged. Already in 1897, the beginning has been made with a major case,
which of course is not available in the first execution planned manner has come, but which
has given others a suggestion, I mean the negotiations on the construction of worker housing.
By that time the suggestion is establishing discussions Jena's cooperative has been given, perhaps
the other stocks just yet. There are then also during this five year interval discussions on
improving of facilities, canteen and baths have been. We have discussed
a long time on the training of the labor contract.

The current contract with the title page pointing out the three stages through which he has run.
In 1897, the original Text set, then added in early 1900, the consideration of § 616 of the Civil Code,
and finally also in 1900 the agreement establishing the eight-hour Work has led.

I raise these important points, of which no one will dispute that the discussions have resulted
in the Committee on measures of general interest, only shows to be
noted that it is not right when said in public debates, there have
Workers' committees under the present circumstances no other purpose
than the functioning large farms easier.

That the Committee is also doing this, quite rightly, for a good functioning also supposes that a regular
communication between the operating contractor and workers is possible, so that any grievances and
complaints settled at the proper time can be

.


A few minutes later Burton left Oakdale with his two lieutenants and a couple of the local
policemen, the car turning south toward Payson and moving at ever accelerating speed as it
left the town streets behind it and swung smoothly onto the country road.

                        *****

It was after midnight when four men cautiously approached the old mill. There was no light
nor any sign of life within as they crept silently through the doorless doorway. Columbus Blackie
was in the lead. He flashed a quick light around the interior revealing four forms stretched
upon the floor, deep in slumber. Into the blacker shadows of the far end of the room the man
failed to shine his light for the first flash had shown him those whom he sought. Picking out
their quarry the intruders made a sudden rush upon the sleepers.

Bridge awoke to find two men attempting to rain murderous blows upon his head. Wiry, strong
and full of the vigor of a clean life, he pitted against their greater numbers and cowardly
attack a defense which was infinitely more strenuous than they had expected.

Columbus Blackie leaped for The Oskaloosa Kid, while The Sky Pilot seized upon Abigail Prim.
No one paid any attention to Giova, nor, with the noise and confusion, did the intruders note
the sudden clanking of a chain from out the black depths of the room's further end, or the
splintering of a half decayed studding.

Soup Face entangling himself about Bridge's legs succeeded in throwing the latter to the floor
while Dirty Eddie kicked viciously at the prostrate man's head. The Sky Pilot seized Abigail
Prim about the waist and dragged her toward the doorway and though the girl fought valiantly
to free herself her lesser muscles were unable to cope successfully with those of the man. 

The pace, however, in which this exterior extension of the activity took place is, except by obvious
practical reasons also limited by a special self-imposed regardless been referred to common interests
of the entire sector - similar to the Thought that the time has determined all parties to the
improvement of the optical glass, as the basis for all progress in optics, without any reservation
in favor of the local Workshop to put in the service of the community.

Our entry into new branches of industry that is inevitably we had to compete bring others to
whom we faced until then as competitors. It should now this new competition are not in the
fact that we dispute about those other terrain did what they had in turn been cleared and cultivated
with success, he should rather occur only in proportion as we new, hitherto not cultivated land
in the common Field work on our part could make arable and so this common field of work in accordance
the growing scope of our own participation expanded. This guideline allowed under we in new areas
of practical optics only occur with such products, from emerged in our own work, not at all or
not in the same kind of already others were produced. That we but on the other hand, those
innovations that we made our Circle of ideas win, place and completely at the disposal of the
previously stated policy do is not only in the strictest sense of the limits legitimate self-interest,
but is also objectively well. For as many experience shows, the progress, which is possibly
achieved through new, only certain views, really assert themselves to gain if the author himself
to represent him in the position.

So much for the first point.

The second, the regulation of the rights and interests of working professionals, Personal to the owner
of the company, as during this last decade, designed has is not from the standpoint of internal
policy, but an idea under the most general social interest.

The ever increasing number of people in all their civil and economic life depending on our business
were apparent in the concrete and the consequent importance which the organization of big
business for the communities and the nation-won has had those who had helped to establish such
an organization, and more the responsibility to bring more awareness in providing such cooperation
it. This had to say that their economic activity, although legally it now is almost entirely
as a private matter, due to their drastic effect on the welfare and Woe to many, and their
obvious relationship to overall national interests, has in truth long since become an important
public function in the large national organism is, so to speak the order in the organization and
operation of joint work of many participate in the organization and management of the economic
activity of the whole people. But this led to Of course the recognition of the basic demand:
that the operation of the conductive Function of the entrepreneur in the big industry is not under
consideration in the first row of the should own benefit or social interest are single, but practiced
in the first place must be among the considerations which the social interest of the state
community calls.

| In this supreme idea has gradually specific guidance for which our
region continue that order of the ratio between staff and entrepreneurs
by two considerations is determined, one of which is on the personal
relations, the other on the economic Money runs out.

The first is: Since the recent economic development invariably the independent small businesses in
most areas of work pushing back further and thus inevitably a growing part of the whole people
under economic dependence Bring some of the industrial enterprises, it threatens the foundations of a
healthy nationhood, if this process has the effect of continuing an ever growing majority of
the people even in personal and civic function of the small minority of self-consistent to notify
any person, that majority also human being to make non-free and so the depress larger part of the people
to an intermediate stage to helotry. So Guarantees against the abuse of economic dependence
on the restriction of personal and civil liberty of salaried by the contractor and its institutions.

The
second consideration is: by the economic dependence for the great majority in many regards the conditions
of outer advancement compared with the situation, the earlier the small individual commercial
work offered, worse, threatened to damage the all the people the current economic development,
the working people groups with increasing Deterioration in their relative living situation
if they do not also share in the economic Advantage of the new form
of work is given.

Large-scale industry but in the strength of the organization, through which the planned and
ongoing collaboration of many, the mere juxtaposition of work many different, specific source
of surplus revenue of human activity, a third economic factor besides labor and capital, the
economic returns of organized Whole increased over the sum of the potential labor income of
all persons complicit in mattes in the Individual work and marketable equivalent of capital use.
So body through which of these specific excess of the organization, the actual profit of enterprise, his
natural social object is subservient to the economic level of an organized Working people working to
make higher than in independent small commercial work could be [16]. |

The here described social aspirations, the rules and maxims of practical action in our county
have long been essentially determined. Entry into the phenomenon they are first adopted eight
years ago in the common pension statute of optical Workshop, and the glass factory, through
which, in contrast to the pension funds in the Private industry, not the members of both companies
Conventional entitled to pension against the assets of a pension fund, but against the assets
of the company itself acknowledged The contractor was therefore required
in principle in all its economic management to take the normal consumption
of human labor in all of the same kind account as the recovery of
his lifeless resources.

The external accounts have those aspirations recently found in the statutes of the Carl Zeiss Foundation,
the relevant sections of the previously experienced virtually rules codified under the same
complement of detail now and doing that sort of permanent legal institutions of our company.

With
a few words I have finally the third work of this last decade, the Transformation of external
constitution of the company to remember, some of which, under the same terms as just discussed
applies.

It is an almost typical phenomenon of modern economic development has become, that industrial
enterprises, if they exceeded a certain size outer abandoned by the owners personal and - for once
in cooperatives - usually in limited liability companies or similar Forms are transferred.
The process is almost regularly justified by pointing the concerns and risks for large enterprises requiring
high judicious Line set, the dependence on the personal qualities
and skills of the random owner surrender and the unpredictability
of the circumstances that the Bills .

Determine | If one ignores the fact that the conversion of personal property in impersonal
Collective ownership usually very one-sided only for better protection of the companies invested capital
will be used and usually also very one-sided domination of its Interests
leads, and if we disregard also of the odious connotation, the founder
of the essence This gives that the lucky owner is almost always problematic
his rights want to see on future Nutznießungsvorteile capitalized
in advance - is that tendency Unpersönlichwerdens of the large industrial
companies on the whole a well-pleasing Release.

For among the many absurd, which includes the present economic order, Surely this is the Widersinnigste: that the
welfare of as many people and perhaps a valuable piece of the national wealth which was created
by the work of others has come under the heading of random exercise the right to property in
the hands of people may, perhaps quite unprepared or incapable of any activity of a responsible
are. Given this danger, it is nevertheless already a step forward if the distribution of Property on a
large number of people, none of which has much to say, the probability opened, from the ignorance
of some and the wisdom of the other permanent a tolerable to see mediocrity of mind assured. |

Even in our affairs has a similar process and perform for similar reasons, need. Only here could,
in accordance with the previously indicated considerations of social interest, the Unpersönlichwerden
of the owner be through cooperative education under the temporary working People are brought on
by more impersonal design of the mere ownership the resources. One would be the future under the
rule of the current, ephemeral and sometimes disparate interests of the people have been accidentally
complicit in mattes, the other under the rule of more-ending money. When someone like the other
would be to the Lord elements have become, in the organism of the whole truth in anything else than the
serving members, through their parent organization and planned the organization their specific
economic power to win, made it a third economic factor makes, in addition to labor and capital - the
strength, personal work activities of all individual and cooperation of the dead equipment to
increase their economic value far beyond the value that would have anything in itself, outside
of the organized whole, in the separation.

So now - perhaps for the first time - been made in our affairs that third economic factor that
the organization itself, the institution of a private industrial
company to make.

They, by their nature somewhat impersonal, is in the form of the Foundation, the independent legal
person, the rights and legal capacity of a living person may obtain should. So that represents
the current owner of the company not the ephemeral interests all accessories to their perimeter
people - the change from year to year - and not the Interests of the invested capital in their
operations - that are among the owners did not needs and even now only partially belongs to
him but he represents the epitome of everything of what the continued activity of the whole and
significantly different from the mere Coexistence of many individual works and the mechanical
running of the machines: the sum of the technical and economic experience has accumulated half a
century, the Forces from the continuity of all actions, the sum of technical training in all work
the systematic engagement of the activities of all individual, the impact force of the Performance
of all predecessors, living and dead - so to speak, the whole spiritual Capital, which in a highly
developed organization by the steady work of many in this 50 years, brought together and the
next generation will be preserved.

The management of the company by the owner is so impersonal principle, their Have legal title to ownership
of the intellectual operational funds of the organization - and the Personal organs through which exerts
its function to that, as the representatives of Organization, participation, ie the permanent
interests of the whole over all elements, which have entered it in society. That is the meaning
of the facilities which the current constitution represent the company.

The fact that in this last section of the history of our institution, the initiative much myself
and my current employees has fallen to me has not may hold, the ideas are moving this last section
is a summary outline here to be marked. The waiver would then not only the historical image of
the 50th Development and substantially made incomplete, but also cut off all occasions have
to remember today the major component, have also now been achieved on the other and what would
term as the future as his successes. I'm not talking here of those in daily work, the joint
effort and the worry of these last years with I have shared - without their devoted, some
selfless cooperation, the new Tasks, which this decade has made us, not have to be addressed
can. They have the immediate interest in the consciousness exists
now.

But fitting it to the entrance of our institute in the second half century of its activity
expressly to commemorate those who, standing outside our inner circle, meeting just the last
tasks in particularly have facilitated and encouraged.

Thanks to the participation of understanding, with which royal p.. Our revered Sovereign Grand Duke and
his high calling, unfortunately as soon snatched from Grand Duke
Carl August, the efforts accompanied, on the fixing and maintenance
of our city came in the flowering branch precision engineering industry
aimed, the Constitution of the Carl Zeiss Foundation, so to speak
may lean on the institutions of the state to this Constitution, without
prejudice to full Freedom of movement of the Foundation, to gain a
firmer hold, as a purely private organization could provide.

The warm interest, however, that except the named princely men also the former Minister of State
Gottfried stickleback and his successor, Chief of Großherzogl. Cultural Affairs Department
Adolf Guyet gives to the intention of the enterprises of the current make Carl Zeiss-Stiftung
purposes directly serve the common good, has all the difficulties and can overcome concern that the
crucial time, given some time still precarious circumstances that were contrary to analogy. Both men,
which our political system and especially since our university is committed in many ways to you,
are now gone home already. Among the survivors, however, nor are the two that in the expansion
of our facilities in detail personally most involved: the curator of our university, "Go. State
Eggeling, altbegründete its friendly relationship with my person at all, the first directional
opened, the participating Council has exercised significant influence on everything - and the then
Chief of Großherzogl. Department of Finance, Real geh Council ROTHE. He, the first foundation
Commissioner Carl Zeiss Foundation, has now carried more than 5 years to practice the role, according
the Constitution of the Foundation as the most important practical effluent from its reference to
the State institutions must be considered.

He has thus pave the way and fix help conduct on which the affairs of our company in future - on
which He also hopefully for quite a long time to continue his valuable participation. But he is
still a special part also in shaping the current facilities itself. For his wide outlook Council
finished the earlier efforts was the first designated steered in the direction in which the decisive
step was done after: the Constitution of the independent legal person as a support of the
local enterprises. He is in this sense as friend SCHOTT in another sense, co-founder of the Carl Zeiss
Foundation become.

All of them, which I called here, are outside our own circle the constructive work the last decade
have supported and promoted it on this day warm and sincere Thanks on behalf of those offered who
were involved in this constructive work within.

* * * * *

So I am now arrived in my back-looking view at the point where the past in the future opens, what
happened to the hand coming last. I would conclude here , if not the thoughts of the last
period under a special relationship would have on the fundamentals of the future development of
the work, which our analysis applies. They therefore call directly on to the review of the past nor an
outlook to deliver on the future - not to veil their inquisitive air, but us to bring to clear
consciousness, the specific claims in the future to those will provide, who serve in our county
their missions.

We must not deny that this claim in several respects, more stringent than in the field of practical
work normally for now, the people and their achievements be made. The subordination of the
economic management of the Carl Zeiss Foundation under greater social tasks is establishing
its obligation to operate and loads of other industrial enterprises do not currently need to
attend to, and meanwhile it is still not a matter of certainty but only the assumption that
the advantage of elimination of enjoyment-seeking capitalists or contractor from this economic management
on the duration, the adequate equivalent will be for those larger
loads.

But what is serious because falls and makes many worry is the need
of our sphere to exclude some things need to know what the time most
indispensable in industrial Facilities would be considered - especially
in dealing with the rights and interests of different groups of people
within the organization.

       When the bodies of the Carl Zeiss Foundation should not remain contradictory
in itself, and especially the senior people had in all levels of internal
activity, some advantages and benefits are denied, which in big industry
more often than the really effective drivers of successful operation .

Shall As a result, our organization has to forces and properties of the people count believe that sufficient
frequency not all want: less selfishness, more public spirit - Less external ambition, more sense of
the intrinsic value of human labor - less obedience, more conscious of duty free and much more
- and who would deny that the the disadvantage is that he anticipates that in the not very feasible
coin?

* * * * *

But no, it is taking in its efforts to each existing and applicable a small step forward must
come, boasted that we can achieve anything if while he would remain permanently in opposition
to the prevailing ideas of his time. What permanently separated remain, is sure to have taken
the broad stream.

The hope of success is therefore in this case, the hope for the success of efforts the many others
who go out in our time on the economic activity of subordinate peoples social and moral ideas,
- that is the expectation, that these efforts of contemporaries,
in spite of today's large divergence of her way, but gradually a common
Resultant will arise, strong enough to hold the mentality of the people
and the social and to influence economic institutions in the direction
of that goal and so the temporary isolation in time set aside again.

But if do not meet this expectation, should the highly developed culture of the outer 19. Century
are already addicted to inevitable doom leak, finally to have to fight in an increasingly desolate becoming
purely selfish interests, it could indeed happen that institutions that have counted on the
effectiveness nobler powers just because something must be destroyed earlier, and the other a
well-deserved Fall finds what has received perfect desert campaign has adapted. And then it would
there are already that the worldly-wise, practical people yet again kept law and say a certain
time should: see the fools who do not swim in the broad stream wanted, because his water was
cloudy! Such fears outer failures over It may, however, if not all drive the progress paralyzed, all
consciousness of moral Responsibility in people is to be repealed, no other answer than the
word of the strict Roman: the winning thing has fallen to the gods,
the defeated Cato!

       

* * * * *

In our context, however, fortunately, today nothing, absolutely nothing
after that done would be to remember the croaking of the ravens.

Quite the contrary - the outer and inner Location of our institute has yet to be any earlier time
so confident in the future justified, as we may now have it. Not to mention the fact that
the last few years its economic foundations have been consolidated in a level that is certainly only few
companies in the private sector will be achieved, and that even its internal organization now much
better developed and fortified, as it could be a few years ago - in particular are also encouraging signs
to suggest that the spirit in which people interact have become accustomed to the requirements
meets to which our organization has.

Because with unconcealed satisfaction, I must say it that the firm Carl Zeiss in all Layers of
their staff, simple by the highest officials to the workers, a very large number of such,
has the full responsibility of personal devotion to their duties, many far beyond the strict
limits beyond what one could call as a dutiful performance. Also is the inevitable conflict of
interests, which in collaboration continued for many Discharge must come, the company certainly spared
from such dispute forms as elsewhere, the relationship between principal and agents, contractors
and workers often . Embitter


Beneath a great tree they halted them, and two ropes were thrown over a stout branch. One of
the leaders started to search them; and when he drew his hands out of Bridge's side pockets
his eyes went wide, and he gave a cry of elation which drew excited inquiries from all sides.

"By gum!" he cried, "I reckon we ain't made no mistake here, boys. Look ahere!" and he displayed
two handsful of money and jewelry.

"Thet's Abbie Prim's stuff," cried one.

The boy beside Bridge turned wide eyes upon the man. "Where did you get it?" he cried. 

Suddenly we heard noise at the door and said: - "the little princess would come to to see the
animals. "Everything looked out for her, and rejoiced over their friendly greetings and pretty
on her dress. - As she stood before the cage of the great lion, they gave a loud cry of surprise
and horror of, because she knew at first sight their Rosaurus. She would also take the same hand
through the bars to the small Favorite pet and to comfort her, but she pulled back startled Gogo
Mlle. - The owner of Menagerie was once asked how he had come to the kitten? and he said that he did a unknown
boy had bought, which still at that moment been here - he would immediately look for him.

William was not found, however, and went to the very natural, for
when he talks heard about the kitten, he was bang in our hearts and
he crawled under a table on which parrots stood, and the lower chamber
was fitted with a canvas curtain, and then he was rescued safely.

Through a hole he could see everything that was going on in the menagerie hear, and he could also
Everything. He had as his witness, as the owner of the kitten from the menagerie lion cage sought
and received a dollar, while he had only paid a penny for it. Wilhelm quite annoyed that he did not
even such a good deal.

He was however very scary under the table to courage, for it was under the same a great ape in confinement,
which the unqualified intruder with the long arms scratched in the
neck, and under the cage of the monkey was that of a brooding pelican,
which, also indignant about the disorder, Wilhelm bit as bad, that
the trousers torn and the blood flowed.

He who has had so little meat seats in the school feared that in this way to be quite unfit to sit
down and when the requesting end, he used the moment where a fat man had brought to the table
to crawl out and behind to keep this hidden.

But since the evil in his heart could never sleep, so it escaped his attention not that the
fat man is a very well-stocked market, from which he had just an extra tip paid for the snake, had
put into the left pocket. The snake ate namely have just a dove in his usual cruel way by the
friendly face of the world the same and licked by their saliva was
slippery and smooth, then they moved the poor beast unmercifully in
her throat, and you could feel it in the deep throat still struggling.

Wilhelm said the fat man certainly would look so carefully that he would not notice if his
delicate hand to him in his pocket and took out the stock market and in a trice was this hand
even indoors.
 

Mrs Anson

First Chapter

Between Podolin and Lomnitz, where the level insignificant to one from a shallow depression
Hillock stands, was the Anson-yard. The residential building was leaning against the back of
the wild Hedge, the spacious park-like garden limited. The house,
with whitewashed Walls drilled deep into the earth appeared, by a
stone staircase leading to the gate and zopfigen the decorations around
the windows squares as a cross between farmers and mansion. 

So it is made out of everything said previously shown that the person on whose Name of the beginning
of our work builds to a man of no ordinary intelligence and must have been of no ordinary energy,
[and to the full appreciation of at most even to refer to the outer aggravating circumstances in which
his professional preparation and especially the beginning of his own business once stood.] And
yet another is also clear from my comments: Carl Zeiss has been one of those be capable, motives
of their actions, arguments determine their resolution through the to let what is not what it should
be only their thoughts to - in their thoughts and Costumes so that future gains the force of causality,
forming and shaping influence to the present, exists. So alone, however, all progress accomplished
in human Things, large and small.

The worldly-wise, the so-called practical people in the most precise
to adapt to the particular Existing and rulers and the greatest possible
in subordination to the claims the broadest come to supposition, maintain
these other, strangely enough, from the motives and arguments of some
To draw what does not yet exist, with the familiar mixture of respect
and contempt to call "idealists."

Well! If the small and in the indifference of everyday things Life was not more to the fore - Carl
Zeiss was really such an idealist. He was it in the matters for which he means something. And
because it was he has his work on his field of work founded a visible progress and successes yielded
to his personal life to survive.
 And he smiled as he passed over her jewels and money.

Mr. Prim's eyes widened; he looked suspiciously at Bridge. Abigail laughed merrily. From
the village only the church tower was to be seen, because suddenly, by a freak of nature, raises
at Podolin a rugged mound, forcing the pulling lazily along the river, far from it in Avoid knee.
Podolin itself is located on the gently sloping side of the hill, but to the south to hard approach
built on the river, so that the main street of the village near the figure S has a # #. All around
stretches wavy-level land that is not overly abundant with tree and Busch appears covered.

Between
the village and the Anson-yard, spread a house-less, barren strip
of land.

Only a great room space was on the river bank and he poured the summer and winter, the smell
of fresh- hewn from tree trunks.

Most people in the area just remembered the day, and on which Mrs. Anson an old-fashioned square-built
coach of the Ostrava street side retracted into the village was accompanied by her servant Ursula,
the five-year Arnold was on his knees. The former mayor had led the woman across the courtyard,
which for more than a hundred Years, a once rich and now is one reason previous farmer had sex.
Soon began a quiet but relentless busyness of the derelict appearance of good . Change Stall
barn and were put in order, fences erected, the silted Fountain dug deeper, the cattle improved,
new furniture, new plows, obtained new servants and the house received a new roof.

Three months earlier, Mrs. Anson had still been desired goals in life
other than in the to seek solitude Moravian rest of the world.

She had the pleasure of the sociability and loved all those joys, which you could gain the wealth
of her husband. Alfred Anson was one of the great coal-owners of the Ostrava district was. However,
had forced him to his business, much of the year in the sad, grimy city spend, but then the more
beautiful was the contrast to that in Vienna, in the mountains or on Travel time spent. From such
a journey, the family, man, woman and child, at first December after Ostrava back. The winter
night, they were traveling towards, sealed the fate of the three people.


"But the man didn't know you were a girl," suggested Mr. Prim. But a year from 4000-6000 Extraoktroi Mark on consumption especially
of the least well-off segment of the population - that would be dirty money! And if the advantage
of the city coffers in the decision does not matter, it would, however, the Council every reason
to consider the matter ten times - even for the consequences. Where did you come if - one law
for everybody! - Any interest group, which also indignant that the interests of another group
do her own abortion, from the city require the introduction of damage control for their opponents
be? When the now in favor the fretted Krämer geschähe would soon come very many. First, the homeowner
could and those who build a commercial apartment buildings for sale, complain that a building society
- even a kind of drinking club! - Affects their acquisition by They even build houses for the
needs of the comrades - and that could create an extra tax require the cooperative. And then would
come the barbers and complain that in their acquisition would be harmed, because let more and more
people are growing their beards - and which must now for the sake of the city by local ordinance,
even an income tax, "calculated" to the beards, introduce, for what the traders rather, the
barbers is cheap. And it would be no end in sight. But whether these and other reasons to reject
the council really will determine the application, one can not know. For further thanks to
the apathy Sections of the population in relation to public affairs is his decision owned by the
same interest group that has the trade association have the last word. With the possibility
of adoption of the tax application in the municipal council must, therefore, at any rate be expected.

One
could use the club still share his hope that perhaps the government not grant such a bylaw
with approval. According to their opinion Consumer association to issue guidance in the § 4
of the new tax law is likely, in fact, that they will consider that
the special tax required neither reasonable nor fair.

 Hettie Penning was with
them, and everyone present had been sworn to secrecy about her share in the tragedy of the
previous night. Fifteen minutes before the finish ran the train on the wrong track and crashed in
its turf against a passenger train coming from Silesia. The same zusammenprasselnden Car parts, which shocked
the colliding man crushed his head, were for the protection of women and had become surrounded
her and the boys as the boards of a coffin. When she was free could lay the child unharmed between
her legs extended into a bed.

"I couldn't have told you a few hours ago," said Bridge. I would like to become a baker or confectioner.

President.

Haha! probably because of the good cake.

Wilhelm. I mean, it must be a pleasure to prepare what so many people well tastes.

President. Well done, my boy, it's right, if not only to themselves but also think of others.
Are you still angry with me that I'll broke his arm in my pocket.

I can in my own pocket but do what I want and what is not lost call
in, must have all fallen.

Wilhelm. I am now very happy that you broke my arm and I will always be very grateful if you let
me learn something bold.

When the President met one day the little princess asked them:

"What makes the little bad boy?"

"He's not a bad boy anymore," said the President, "and it would be
no bad guy type in the world if not the parents were angry.

"He then told how educated William been and that he still had other
siblings.

The princess asked now is whether this so bad would?

  Was allowed to inquire after them
  and soon heard only good things about Dorothy and the Princess let
her dress and send in a knitting and sewing.

The small but Hannah was in a small child-care at school, where they pray, sing, knit, and
pretty little verse learned, were thought to also help them to brush his nose and to wash
their hands, which they at home was not necessary, they also had to be pretty decent. The President
said, to such As you save the children from the ruin, and lead their souls to heaven.
Chapter 10

The great adventure.

Lose the courage not in danger
God watches and protects thee.

Every day the Princess visited the
Lions and spent an hour in the menagerie. You the animal was very
grateful that he had not eaten her kittens, and wanted him their Show
gratitude by giving him every day brought a few pounds of meat. This
meat was pretty cut into pieces and recovered paper in a dainty little
basket, which the servant her grudge. He peered often
through the hidden hole in the door when the boy had only imagine, but it was always the same
sad Ernst in the flaccid and sometimes uneasy, sometimes by as Sight of fear of an invisible
entity distorted and disrupted trains. It was in vain, at night when he slept in his bed to sneak to
kneel, to listen to the breath and be seen whether he wore telltale words from the interior to
the lips, people bent on Sign guides, namely, to speak out of sleep, and they sleep more during
the day at night, where they indulge their thoughts and designs, but that enveloped the slumber,
as soon as the sun sank, and he woke up, when the first morning light through the closed Shops
squeezed.

      94     8      1  Squibbs place,"        Squibbs' place,"
      97     4      2  "We aint               "We ain't
      98     1      8  Squibbs place          Squibbs' place
      98     3      1  hiself de              hisself de
      98     5      4  he aint                he ain't
      98     7      1  Squibbs place          Squibbs' place
      98     8      2  you aint               you ain't
     107     4      3  wont tell              won't tell
     113     3      5  its measles            it's measles
     113     3      6  cough aint             cough ain't
     113     3      6  its 'it,'              it's 'it,'
     113     4      1  I aint                 I ain't
     114     2      6  Squibb's place         Squibbs' place
     114     2     13  simply wont            simply won't
     116     6      3  few minutes            few minutes'
     116     7      5  Squibb's farm          Squibbs' farm
     121            4  she wont               she won't
     121            5  wont."                 won't." = After the age of 60 Year of life is each
member entitled to withdraw those which are made on the ruling as a function of allowance Part
of his salary waived .=

§ 28

[Side Note: Specific commitments VM]

The members of the boards (business lines) to the foundation companies need to find their special
function continued regular participation in the scientific, technical
or commercial matters exercise in one of the premises, in respect
of which Activity of the relevant Board as a body, they, like all
other officials of the Company to remain subordinate.

They may hold out the service of the Foundation no paid office. It was the police, Mr President. "Aha, said this, we already know, and now hope I steal, you
will not soon again. "

The whole audience was aware of the crying boy and become the Princess
would pity him and give him something.