"Torture is inflicted on one who confesses the principal fact, but varies as to circumstances.
Also on one who is reputed to be a heretic, but against whom there is only one witness of the
fact. In this case common rumor is one indication of guilt, and the direct evidence is another,
making altogether but semi-plenar proof. The torture may bring out fall proof. Also, when there
is no witness, but vehement suspicion. Also when there is no common report of heresy, but only
one witness who has heard or seen something in him contrary to the faith. Any two indications
of heresy will justify the use of torture. If you sentence to torture, give him a written notice
in the form prescribed; but other means be tried first. Nor is this an infallible means for
bringing out the truth. Weak-hearted men, impatient at the first pain, will confess crimes
they never committed, and criminate others at the same time. Bold and strong ones will bear
the most severe torments. Those who have been on the rack before bear it with more courage,
for they know how to adapt their limbs to it, and they resist powerfully. Others, by enchantments,
seem to be insensible, and would rather die than confess. These wretches user for incantations,
certain passages from the Psalms of David, or other parts of Scripture, which they write on
virgin parchment in an extravagant way, mixing them with names of unknown angels, with circles
and strange letters, which they wear upon their person. 'I know not,' says Pena, 'how this
witchcraft can be remedied, but it will be well to strip the criminals naked, and search them
narrowly, before laying them upon the rack.' While the tormentor is getting ready, let the
inquisitor and other grave men make fresh attempts to obtain a confession of the truth. Let
the tormentors TERRIFY HIM BY ALL MEANS, TO FRIGHTEN HIM INTO CONFESSION. And after he is stripped,
let the inquisitor take him aside, and make a last effort. When this has failed, let him be
put to the question by torture, beginning with interrogation on lesser points, and advancing
to greater. If he stands out, let them show him other instruments of torture, and threaten
that he shall suffer them also. If he will not confess; the torture may be continued on the
second or third day; but as it is not to be repeated, those successive applications must be
called CONTINUATION. And if, after all, he does not confess, he may be set at liberty."

Rules are laid down for the punishment of those who do confess. Innocent IV. commanded the
secular judges to put heretics to torture; but that gave occasion to scandalous publicity,
and now inquisitors are empowered to do it, and, in case of irregularity (THAT IS, IF THE PERSON
DIES IN THEIR HANDS), TO ABSOLVE EACH OTHER. And although nobles were exempt from torture,
and in some kingdoms, as Arragon, it was not used in civil tribunals, the inquisitors were
nevertheless authorized to torture, without restriction, persons of all classes.

And here we digress from Eymeric and Pena, in order to describe, from additional authority,
of what this torture consisted, and probably, still consists, in Italy. Limborch collects this
information from Juan de Rojas, inquisitor at Valencia.

"There were five degrees of torment as some counted (Eymeric included), or according to others,
three. First, there was terror, including the threatenings of the inquisitor, leading to the
place of torture, stripping, and binding; the stripping of their clothing, both men and women,
with the substitution of a single tight garment, to cover part of the person--being an outrage
of every feeling of decency--and the binding, often as distressing as the torture itself. Secondly
came the stretching on the rack, and questions attendant. Thirdly a more severe shock, by the
tension and sodden relaxation of the cord, which is sometimes given once, but often twice,
thrice, or yet more frequently."

"Isaac Orobio, a Jewish physician, related to Limborch the manner in which he had himself been
tortured, when thrown into the inquisition at Seville, on the delation of a Moorish servant,
whom he had punished for theft, and of another person similarly offended.

"After having been in the prison of the inquisition for full three years, examined a few times,
but constantly refusing to confess the things laid to his charge, he was at length brought
out of the cell, and led through tortuous passages to the place of torment. It was near evening.
He found himself in a subterranean chamber, rather spacious, arched over, and hung with black
cloth. The whole conclave was lighted by candles in sconces on the walls. At one end there
was a separate chamber, wherein were an inquisitor and his notary seated at a table. The place,
gloomy, intent, and everywhere terrible, seemed to be the very home of death. Hither he was
brought, and the inquisitor again exhorted him to tell the truth before the torture should
begin. On his answering that he had already told the truth, the inquisitor gravely protested
that he was bringing himself to the torture by his own obstinacy; and that if he should suffer
loss of blood, or even expire, during the question, the holy office would be blameless. Having
thus spoken, the inquisitor left him in the hands of the tormentors, who stripped him, and
compressed his body so tightly in a pair of linen drawers, that he could no longer draw breath,
and must have died, had they not suddenly relaxed the pressure; but with recovered breathing
came pain unutterably exquisite. The anguish being past, they repeated a monition to confess
the truth, before the torture, as they said, should begin; and the same was afterwards repeated
at each interval.

"As Orobio persisted in denial, they bound his thumbs so tightly with small cords that the
blood burst from under the nails, and they were swelled excessively. Then they made him stand
against the wall on a small stool, passed cords around various parts of his body, but principally
around the arms and legs, and carried them over iron pulleys in the ceiling. The tormentor
then pulled the cords with all his strength, applying his feet to the wall, and giving the
weight of his body to increase the purchase. With these ligatures his arms and legs, fingers
and toes, were so wrung and swollen that he felt as if fire were devouring them. In the midst
of this torment the man kicked down the stool which had supported his feet, so that he hung
upon the cords with his whole weight, which suddenly increased their tension, and gave indescribable
aggravation to his pain. Next followed a new kind of torment. An instrument resembling a small
ladder, consisting of two parallel pieces of wood, and five transverse pieces, with the anterior
edges sharpened, was placed before him, so that when the tormentor struck it heavily, he received
the stroke five times multiplied on each shin bone, producing pain that was absolutely intolerable,
and under which he fainted. Bat no sooner was be revived than they inflicted a new torture.
The tormentor tied other cords around his wrists, and having his own shoulders covered with
leather, that they might not be chafed, passed round them the rope which was to draw the cords,
set his feet against the wall, threw himself back with all his force, and the cords cut through
to the bones. This he did thrice, each time changing the position of the cords, leaving a small
distance between the successive wounds; but it happened that in pulling the second time they
slipped into the first wounds, and caused such a gush of blood that Orobio seemed to be bleeding
to death.

"A physician and surgeon, who were in waiting as usual, to give their opinion as to the safety
or danger of continuing those operations, that the inquisitors might not commit an irregularity
by murdering the patient, were called in. Being friends of the sufferer, they gave their opinion
that he had strength enough remaining to bear more. By this means they saved him from a SUSPENSION
of the torture, which would have been followed by a repetition, on his recovery, under the
pretext of CONTINUATION. The cords were therefore pulled a third time, and this ended the torture.
He was dressed in his own clothes, carried back to prison, and, after about seventy days, when
the wounds were healed, condemned as one SUSPECTED of Judaism. They could not say CONVICTED,
because he had not confessed; but they sentenced him to wear the sambenito [Footnote: This
sambenito (Suco bendito or blessed sack,) is a garment (or kind of scapulary according to some
writers,) worn by penitents of the least criminal class in the procession of an Auto de Fe,
(a solemn ceremony held by the Inquisition for the punishment of heretics,) but sometimes worn
as a punishment at other times, that the condemned one might be marked by his neighbors, and
ever bear a signal that would affright and scare by the greatness of the punishment and disgrace;
a plan, salutary it may be, but very grievous to the offender. It was made of yellow cloth,
with a St. Andrew's cross upon it, of red. A rope was sometimes put around the neck as an additional
mark of infamy.

Those who were condemned to be burnt were distinguished by a habit of the same form, called
Zamarra, but instead of the red cross were painted flames and devils, and sometimes an ugly
portrait of the heretic himself,--a head, with flames under it. Those who had been sentenced
to the stake, but indulged with commutation of the penalty, had inverted flames painted on
the livery, and this was called fuego revuelto, "inverted fire."

Upon the head of the condemned was also placed a conical paper cap, about three feet high,
slightly resembling a mitre, called corona or crown. This was painted with flames and devils
in like manner with the dress.] or penitential habit for two years, and then be banished for
life from Seville."

APPENDIX III.

INQUISITION OF GOA--IMPRISONMENT OF M. DELLON, 1673.

"M. Dellon a French traveller, spending some time at Damaun, on the north-western coast of
Hindostan, incurred the jealousy of the governor and a black priest, in regard to a lady, as
he is pleased to call her, whom they both admired. He had expressed himself rather freely concerning
some of the grosser superstitions of Romanism, and thus afforded the priest, who was also secretary
of the Inquisition, an occasion of proceeding against him as a heretic. The priest and the
governor united in a representation to the chief inquisitor at Goa, which procured an order
for his arrest. Like all other persons whom it pleased the inquisitors or their servants to
arrest, in any part of the Portuguese dominions beyond the Cape of Good Hope, he was thrown
into prison with a promiscuous crowd of delinquents, the place and treatment being of the worst
kind, even according to the colonial barbarism of the seventeenth century. To describe his
sufferings there, is not to our purpose, inasmuch as all prisoners fared alike, many of them
perishing from starvation and disease. Many offenders against the Inquisition were there at
the same time,--some accused of Judaism, others, of Paganism--in which sorcery and witchcraft
were included--and others of immorality. In a field so wide and so fruitful, the "scrutators"
of the faith could not fail to gather abundantly. After an incarceration of at least four months,
he and his fellow-sufferers were shipped off for the ecclesiastical metropolis of India, all
of them being in irons. The vessel put into Bacaim, and the prisoners were transferred, for
some days, to the prison of that town, where a large number of persons were kept in custody,
under charge of the commissary of the holy office, until a vessel should arrive to carry them
to Goa.

"In due time they were again at sea, and a fair wind wafted their fleet into that port after
a voyage of seven days. Until they could be deposited in the cells of the Inquisition with
the accustomed formalities, the Archbishop of Goa threw open HIS prison for their reception,
which prison, being ecclesiastical, may be deemed worthy of description.

"The most filthy," says Dellon, "the most dark, and the most horrible that I ever saw; and
I doubt whether a more shocking and horrible prison can be found anywhere. It is a kind of
cave wherein there is no day seen but by a very little hole; the most subtle rays of the sun
cannot enter into it, and there is never any true light in it. The stench is extreme. * * *

"On the 16th of January 1674, at eight o'clock in the morning, an officer came with orders
to take the prisoners to "the holy house." With considerable difficulty M. Dellon dragged his
iron-loaded limbs thither. They helped him to ascend the stairs at the great entrance, and
in the hall, smiths were waiting to take off the irons from all the prisoners. One by one,
they were summoned to audience. Dellon, who was called the first, crossed the hall, passed
through an ante-chamber, and entered a room, called by the Portuguese "board of the holy office,"
where the grand inquisitor of the Indies sat at one end of a very large table, on an elevated
floor in the middle of the chamber. He was a secular priest about forty years of age, in full
vigor--a man who could do his work with energy. At one end of the room was a large crucifix,
reaching from the floor almost to the ceiling, and near it, sat a notary on a folding stool.
At the opposite end, and near the inquisitor, Dellon was placed, and, hoping to soften his
judge, fell on his knees before him. But the inquisitor commanded him to rise, asked whether
he knew the reason of his arrest, and advised him to declare it at large, as that was the only
way to obtain a speedy release. Dellon caught at the hope of release, began to tell his tale,
mixed with tears and protestations, again fell at the feet of Don Francisco Delgado Ematos,
the inquisitor, and implored his favorable attention. Don Francisco told him, very coolly,
that he had other business on hand, and, nothing moved, rang a silver bell. The alcayde entered,
led the prisoner out into a gallery, opened, and searched his trunk, stripped him of every
valuable, wrote an inventory, assured him that all should be safely kept, and then led him
to a cell about ten feet square, and left him there, shut up in utter solitude. In the evening
they brought him his first meal, which he ate heartily, and slept a little during the night
following. Next morning he learnt that he could have no part of his property, not even a breviary
was, in that place, allowed to a priest, for they had no form of religion there, and for that
reason he could not have a book. His hair was cropped close; and therefore "he did not need
a comb."

"Thus began his acquaintance with the holy house, which he describes as "great and magnificent,"
on one side of the great space before the church of St Catharine. There were three gates in
front; and, it was by the central, or largest, that the prisoners entered, and mounted a stately
flight of steps, leading into the great hall. The side gates provided entrance to spacious
ranges of apartments, belonging to the inquisitors. Behind the principal building, was another,
very spacious, two stories high, and consisting of double rows of cells, opening into galleries
that ran from end to end. The cells on the ground-floor were very small, without any aperture
from without for light or air. Those of the upper story were vaulted, white-washed, had a small
strongly grated window, without glass, and higher than the tallest man could reach. Towards
the gallery every cell was shut with two doors, one on the inside, the other one outside of
the wall. The inner door folded, was grated at the bottom, opened towards the top for the admission
of food and was made fast with very strong bolts. The outer door was not so thick, had no window,
but was left open from six o'clock every morning until eleven--a necessary arrangement in that
climate, unless it were intended to destroy life by suffocation.

"To each prisoner was given as earthen pot with water wherewith to wash, another full of water
to drink, with a cup; a broom, a mat whereon to lie, and a large basin with a cover, changed
every fourth day. The prisoners had three meals a day; and their health so far as food could
contribute to it in such a place, was cared for in the provision of a wholesome, but spare
diet. Physicians were at hand to render all necessary assistance to the sick, as were confessors,
ready to wait upon the dying; but they gave no viaticum, performed no unction, said no mass.
The place was under an impenetrable interdict. If any died, and that many did die is beyond
question, his death was unknown to all without; he was buried within the walls without any
sacred ceremony; and if, after death, he was found to have died in heresy, his bones were taken
up at the next Auto, to be burned. Unless there happened to be an unusual number of prisoners,
each one was alone in his own cell. He might not speak, nor groan, nor sob aloud, nor sigh.
[Footnote: Limborch relates that on one occasion, a poor prisoner was heard to cough; the jailer
of the Inquisition instantly repaired to him, and warned him to forbear, as the slightest noise
was not tolerated in that house. The poor man replied that it was not in his power to forbear;
a second time they admonished him to desist; and when again, unable to do otherwise, he repeated
the offence, they stripped him naked, and cruelly beat him. This increased his cough, for which
they beat him so often, that at last he died through pain and anguish of the stripes he had
received.] His breathing might be audible when the guard listened at the grating, but nothing
more. Four guards were stationed in each long gallery, open, indeed, at each end, but awfully
silent, as if it were the passage of a catacomb. If, however, he wanted anything, he might
tap at the inner door, when a jailer would come to hear the request, and would report to the
alcayde, but was not permitted to answer. If one of the victims, in despair, or pain, or delirium,
attempted to pronounce a prayer, even to God, or dared to utter a cry, the jailers would run
to the cell, rush in, and beat him cruelly, for terror to the rest. Once in two months the
inquisitor, with a secretary and an interpreter, visited the prisons, and asked each prisoner
if he wanted anything, if his meat was regularly brought, and if he had any complaint against
the jailers. His want after all lay at the mercy of the merciless. His complaint, if uttered,
would bring down vengeance, rather than gain redress. But in this visitation the holy office
professed mercy with much formality, and the inquisitorial secretary collected notes which
aided in the crimination, or in the murder of their victims.

"The officers of Goa were;--the inquisidor mor or grand inquisitor, who was always a secular
priest; the second inquisitor, Dominican friar; several deputies, who came, when called for,
to assist the inquisitors at trials, but never entered without such a summons; qualifiers,
as usual, to examine books and writings, but never to witness an examination of the living,
or be present at any act of the kind; a fiscal; a procurator; advocates, so called, for the
accused; notaries and familiars. The authority of this tribunal was absolute in Goa. There
does not appear to have been anything peculiar in the manner of examining and torturing at
Goa where the practice coincided with that of Portugal and Spain.

"The personal narrative of Dellon affords a distinct exemplification of the sufferings of the
prisoners. He had been told that, when he desired an audience, he had only to call a jailer,
and ask it, when it would be allowed him. But, notwithstanding many tears and entreaties, he
could not obtain one until fifteen days had passed away. Then came the alcayde and one of his
guards. This alcayde walked first out of the cell; Dellon uncovered and shorn, and with legs
and feet bare, followed him; the guard walked behind. The alcayde just entered the place of
audience, made a profound reverence, stepped back and allowed his charge to enter. The door
closed, and Dellon remained alone with the inquisitor and secretary. He knelt; but Don Fernando
sternly bade him to sit on a bench, placed there for the use of the culprits. Near him, on
a table, lay a missal, on which they made him lay his hand, and swear to keep secrecy, and
tell them the truth. They asked if he knew the cause of his imprisonment, and whether he was
resolved to confess it. He told them all he could recollect of unguarded sayings at Damaun,
either in argument or conversation, without ever, that he knew, contradicting, directly or
indirectly, any article of faith. He had, at some time dropped an offensive word concerning
the Inquisition, but so light a word, that it did not occur to his remembrance. Don Fernando
told him he had done well in ACCUSING HIMSELF so willingly, and exhorted him in the name of
Jesus Christ, to complete his self accusation fully, to the end that he might experience the
goodness and mercy which were used in that tribunal towards those who showed true repentance
by a sincere and UNFORCED confession. The secretary read aloud the confession and exhortation,
Dellon signed it, Don Fernando rang a silver bell, the alcayde walked in, and, in a few moments,
the disappointed victim was again in his dungeon.

"At the end of another fortnight, and without having asked for it, he was again taken to audience.
After a repetition of the former questions, he was asked his name, surname, baptism, confirmation,
place of abode, in what parish? in what diocess? under what bishop? They made him kneel, and
make the sign of the cross, repeat the Pater Noster, Hail Mary, creed, commandments of God,
commandments of the church, and Salve Begins. He did it all very cleverly, and even to their
satisfaction; but the grand inquisitor exhorted him, by the tender mercies of our Lord Jesus
Christ, to confess without delay, and sent him to the cell again. His heart sickened. They
required him to do what was impossible--to confess more, after he had acknowledged ALL. In
despair, he tried to starve himself to death; 'but they compelled him to take food.' Day and
night he wept, and at length betook himself to prayer, imploring pity of the 'blessed Virgin,'
whom he imagined to be, of all beings, the most merciful, and the most ready to give him help.

