THE MISTLETOE BOUGH

by Anthony Trollope

"Let the boys have it if they like it," said Mrs. Garrow, pleading to her only daughter on
behalf of her two sons.

"Pray don't, mamma," said Elizabeth Garrow.  "It only means romping. To me all that is detestable,
and I am sure it is not the sort of thing that Miss Holmes would like."

"We always had it at Christmas when we were young."

"But, mamma, the world is so changed."

The point in dispute was one very delicate in its nature, hardly to be discussed in all its
bearings, even in fiction, and the very mention of which between mother and daughter showed
a great amount of close confidence between them.  It was no less than this.  Should that branch
of mistletoe which Frank Garrow had brought home with him out of the Lowther woods be hung
up on Christmas Eve in the dining-room at Thwaite Hall, according to his wishes; or should
permission for such hanging be positively refused?  It was clearly a thing not to be done after
such a discussion, and therefore the decision given by Mrs. Garrow was against it.

I am inclined to think that Miss Garrow was right in saying that the world is changed as touching
mistletoe boughs.  Kissing, I fear, is less innocent now than it used to be when our grand-mothers
were alive, and we have become more fastidious in our amusements. Nevertheless, I think that
she made herself fairly open to the raillery with which her brothers attacked her.

"Honi soit qui mal y pense," said Frank, who was eighteen.

"Nobody will want to kiss you, my lady Fineairs," said Harry, who was just a year younger.

"Because you choose to be a Puritan, there are to be no more cakes and ale in the house," said
Frank.

"Still waters run deep; we all know that," said Harry.

The boys had not been present when the matter was decided between Mrs. Garrow and her daughter,
nor had the mother been present when these little amenities had passed between the brothers
and sister.

"Only that mamma has said it, and I wouldn't seem to go against her," said Frank, "I'd ask
my father.  He wouldn't give way to such nonsense, I know."

Elizabeth turned away without answering, and left the room.  Her eyes were full of tears, but
she would not let them see that they had vexed her.  They were only two days home from school,
and for the last week before their coming, all her thoughts had been to prepare for their Christmas
pleasures.  She had arranged their rooms, making everything warm and pretty.  Out of her own
pocket she had bought a shot-belt for one, and skates for the other.  She had told the old
groom that her pony was to belong exclusively to Master Harry for the holidays, and now Harry
told her that still waters ran deep.  She had been driven to the use of all her eloquence in
inducing her father to purchase that gun for Frank, and now Frank called her a Puritan.  And
why?  She did not choose that a mistletoe bough should be hung in her father's hall, when Godfrey
Holmes was coming to visit him.  She could not explain this to Frank, but Frank might have
had the wit to understand it.  But Frank was thinking only of Patty Coverdale, a blue-eyed
little romp of sixteen, who, with her sister Kate, was coming from Penrith to spend the Christmas
at Thwaite Hall.  Elizabeth left the room with her slow, graceful step, hiding her tears,--hiding
all emotion, as latterly she had taught herself that it was feminine to do.  "There goes my
lady Fineairs," said Harry, sending his shrill voice after her.

Thwaite Hall was not a place of much pretension.  It was a moderate- sized house, surrounded
by pretty gardens and shrubberies, close down upon the river Eamont, on the Westmoreland side
of the river, looking over to a lovely wooded bank in Cumberland.  All the world knows that
the Eamont runs out of Ulleswater, dividing the two counties, passing under Penrith Bridge
and by the old ruins of Brougham Castle, below which it joins the Eden.  Thwaite Hall nestled
down close upon the clear rocky stream about half way between Ulleswater and Penrith, and had
been built just at a bend of the river.  The windows of the dining-parlour and of the drawing-
room stood at right angles to each other, and yet each commanded a reach of the stream.  Immediately
from a side of the house steps were cut down through the red rock to the water's edge, and
here a small boat was always moored to a chain.  The chain was stretched across the river,
fixed to the staples driven into the rock on either side, and the boat was pulled backwards
and forwards over the stream without aid from oars or paddles.  From the opposite side a path
led through the woods and across the fields to Penrith, and this was the route commonly used
between Thwaite Hall and the town.

Major Garrow was a retired officer of Engineers, who had seen service in all parts of the world,
and who was now spending the evening of his days on a small property which had come to him
from his father.  He held in his own hands about twenty acres of land, and he was the owner
of one small farm close by, which was let to a tenant.  That, together with his half-pay, and
the interest of his wife's thousand pounds, sufficed to educate his children and keep the wolf
at a comfortable distance from his door.  He himself was a spare thin man, with quiet, lazy,
literary habits.  He had done the work of life, but had so done it as to permit of his enjoying
that which was left to him.  His sole remaining care was the establishment of his children;
and, as far as he could see, he had no ground for anticipating disappointment.  They were clever,
good- looking, well-disposed young people, and upon the whole it may be said that the sun shone
brightly on Thwaite Hall.  Of Mrs. Garrow it may suffice to say that she always deserved such
sunshine.

For years past it had been the practice of the family to have some sort of gathering at Thwaite
Hall during Christmas.  Godfrey Holmes had been left under the guardianship of Major Garrow,
and, as he had always spent his Christmas holidays with his guardian, this, perhaps, had given
rise to the practice.  Then the Coverdales were cousins of the Garrows, and they had usually
been there as children. At the Christmas last past the custom had been broken, for young Holmes
had been abroad.  Previous to that, they had all been children, excepting him.  But now that
they were to meet again, they were no longer children.  Elizabeth, at any rate, was not so,
for she had already counted nineteen winters.  And Isabella Holmes was coming.  Now Isabella
was two years older than Elizabeth, and had been educated in Brussels; moreover she was comparatively
a stranger at Thwaite Hall, never having been at those early Christmas meetings.

And now I must take permission to begin my story by telling a lady's secret.  Elizabeth Garrow
had already been in love with Godfrey Holmes, or perhaps it might be more becoming to say that
Godfrey Holmes had already been in love with her.  They had already been engaged; and, alas!
they had already agreed that that engagement should be broken off!

