 

Was closed and sealed with wax.

Recognized in the Earl overwritten with amazement the letter from Don Braulio.

Count opened the letter, but not enough anxiety, and trembling hands and haggard face, read as follows:

"Sir
Count, I could not serve in the world but a hindrance. When you receive these items the obstacle
no longer exist.

That conscience forgive those who have made me suffer, as I forgive.

"

- Where have you found this letter? - Asked the Count.

The carrier said it:

- In the pocket of a man who threw a half hour ago to head for the
Viaduct Segovia Street.

We do not know who he is. You, Count, tell us the name of the deceased.

- Don Braulio Gonzalez - Count Alhedín said.

When Beatrice knew her husband's death, her grief touched on the edge of despair; but not raised
him for it.

Ines was well-nigh hopeless.

The Count, remorseful for all those miseries, strove to comfort Agnes: everything seemed little
to comfort her. He overcame opposition from his mother, who did not
like marriage so unequal, and Ines, a year after Don Braulio died,
was Countess of Alhedín.

Paco, who had been deceived in his hopes, he said on that occasion:

-
Ines, not to be coldly calculating, has achieved the cold calculation
that had not got anything: it is true that to achieve this, it has
been necessary to don Braulio mate.

More than two years he lived Beatrice, a widow, with the most profound and sincere grief in the soul.

He
retired to his birthplace, where life was exemplary and typical of a saint.

In memory of Don Braulio yielded true worship.

That kiss, that while he was asleep jealous and she gave Don Braulio, rather than kill, as I
thought, I felt it in the depths of heart and spirit spread its soft and pure melancholy.

The modesty and recollection of Dona Beatriz did you spend very little on his person, and is that
on many, in proportion to its short finances, and everything works
consumed charity.

Paco Ramírez, witnessed all this, and one person who saw Dona Beatriz in her solitude, eventually
fall in love madly.

We have seen how sensitive he was Dona Beatriz to her fall in love.
First, thanks.

Later it fought against the memory of Don Braulio a rising slope.

Finally, poor Beatriz was not bronze, after more than two years, love memories new beat Old love.

Paco and Betty were married, and wiped with kisses Paco, who wakes Beatriz gave the impression
apparently indelible kiss so poetic that she had been asleep.

Paco, something recelosillo, as a good villager, was careful not
to take to Madrid Beatriz, no The devil did it wanted Condesito again
that he loved her seraphic.

This and his wife followed the court
always be paragons of elegance.

Ines, then spent time quietly mused
about Don Braulio and his death explained in a manner satisfactory
to it.

Don Braulio had committed suicide because he was gloomy in
character, because he had less religion a horse, because he was desperate
to be ugly and weak, because he had committed the imprudence of marrying
young and beautiful woman, because she had a ridiculous commitment
be worshiped, and because the love that was not for lack of faith
to the things of heaven, had put in some finite worldly and did not
deserve it, and endeavor to take this idol of quality and excellence
that only supernatural beings agree.

In short, Ines was evident that
the best thing for Don Braulio could have done was kill himself. 

We
do not think I had great learning Inesita classic, but if he had,
had repeated about Don Braulio, a verse, it seems that Homer, who
say they declaimed Scipio to learn the death of Caius Gracchus, his
nephew, and that bad and worse prose romance plays well, perish as
he who imitates his example.

FIN The sun flamed down as hot as a furnace, and neck-scarfs,
veils and umbrellas seemed hardly any protection; they served only to make the long procession
look more than ever fantastic--for be it known the ladies were all riding astride because they
could not stay on the shapeless saddles sidewise, the men were perspiring and out of temper,
their feet were banging against the rocks, the donkeys were capering in every direction but
the right one and being belabored with clubs for it, and every now and then a broad umbrella
would suddenly go down out of the cavalcade, announcing to all that one more pilgrim had bitten
the dust. I would die for you and Braulio you were
happy. The evil, sin that I nicknamed, will admit, I confess, and I ready to receive the deserved
punishment for him. No I go to apologize, but to explain my behavior. So I understand, although
I do not forgive. I followed your advice and flirted with the Count, Count because I fell in love.
Coldly, by calculation, had never flirted with him. Unworthy I have been, but, according to
my conscience would have been more outraged by anything other than the world does not disapprove,
but applauds, attracting cunning Count, with persistence reflexive without more passion than
the desire to put me, that is, to achieve a degree, fifteen thousand dollars of income a year
and a brilliant position. Be everything evil you want, but that would never have I made, and
that was that, following the social wisdom, you advise me. Poor orphan ruined a local gentleman,
and sister of a clerk in the Treasury sad that I almost remains, my pride revolted at the idea
of ​​winning money, and consideration illustrious name in the world, negotiating with my beauty, though
the marriage came as a holy then my calculations, despicable. I repeat, then, I followed your
advice to flirt, not reflection, but by instinct, not to study and caution, but blindly and making
it my whole being and all my soul. Yet, if the count had been poor like me, dark like me, needy
like me, I would have said, marry me, but being who he is, I hated to tell him. Tell, it was
like saying, because I love you, give me diamonds and pearls, take me by car, please he is
living in a beautiful hotel, placed a crown on my brow Countess, buy furniture beautiful,
paintings and statues, keep me servants who serve me thinking; proporcióname in sum, the elegance
and comfort it brings the money, then get the enjoyment and possession of my soul and this
passionate love that you profess, but is restrained by and domesticated by the more severe
restraint. I did not want, nor could I tell this to the Count, this would have been necessary
to tell, though tempered with rodeos and niceties of style. Not say this because I hated to
tell her, and because she loved him, I surrendered unconditionally I have left my soul and
my life. I just, honest, would have been not flirt with him not attract you, or to win her hand
coldly calculating, or to miss as I've missed.

- Unhappy! - Said Beatriz -. 

All the Olympic serenity then finally disappeared. He covered his face with his hands and began
to mourn as a Magdalene.

XXII

Paco Ramírez, meanwhile, had searched in vain for Don Braulio parts per thousand and a thousand
ways.

Then go home mused the Count of Alhedín.

The servant who opened the door told him that the Count was sleeping
peacefully, that it was not visiting hours, that he was wrong message
and that risked to pull him to the head books, a glass of water when
he was on the nightstand.

Paco insisted, however, with such verve, speaking of important, urgent and sacred issue that brought
him to speak with the Count, the servant, who gave the chance that
it was his valet, was finally decided to call the Count.

Well Paco said the magic word that opened the door of the enchanted precinct was the name of
Madame de don Braulio Gonzalez, who said he had been sent.

Was as it were, made him enter the office where he waited over half
an hour roar anger and impatience.

The count, however, had promptly wonders unused dressing.

After
it appeared.

Paco, who had been very gloomy against him, was stunned
by the kindness, simplicity and sweetness of the elegant, the same
or similar which had never before seen in its place, but when he rose
from point his astonishment was when, after referring to what happened
abruptly, he noted the keen interest and deep emotion that stirred
the soul of the Count and is portrayed in his beautiful face.

- We
will find Don Braulio everywhere - he said - but God want us to give
him. Dona Beatrice loves him, is unable to be lacking. I will be convinced
of the innocence of Dona Beatriz. It makes me feel as old as these dreary hills to look down
upon these moss-hung ruins, this historic desolation. - Any injury which I now take her with patience. I am guilty, very guilty, but I swear I never
foresaw that my sins could have had such fatal consequences for you. Would I make you peace
at the expense of my blood.  The idea of a shout in such a solitude as this almost makes
one shudder.

It was a wonderful city, this Ephesus. A wicked woman. My God! What horror! I never forgive
you if something terrible happens.

That said, the Count gave orders to his servants, he wrote to police chiefs, taken by Finally, the hat,
and I was about to leave him in the company of Paco also looking for the desperate Beatriz's
husband when he announced his valet than a dependent one Madrid courts
brought to him a letter that was delivered by hand.  And yet what are these things to the wonders that
lie buried here under the ground? And I seemed to see her at my side, kneeling before the altar.

On the balcony, open wide, reaching to me, on the wings of the breeze, the rumors river, rustling
trees, the hum of insects, the hissing of reptiles, bard winged vibrant voice. Opened before
me long avenue of trees. Light the moon passed through the foliage and drew circles on the
white sand drift. Neighbors in the last orange blossoms opened.

Beautiful night! Good source for the information I was looking for. Hallab family
wandering around the house and the portal, without a word and stumbling around with other, peering
into the corners, looking around and listening to there, and turning turning in and out.
