Sir, said I, I can expect nothing but superlative goodness, I have been so long used to it
from you. This is a most generous instance of it; but I fear--yes, I fear it will be too much
the same thing, some days hence, when the happy, yet, fool that I am! dreaded time, shall be
equally near!

Kind, lovely charmer! said he, now do I see you are to be trusted with power, from the generous
use you make of it!--Not one offensive word or look, from me, shall wound your nicest thoughts;
but pray try to subdue this over-scrupulousness, and unseasonable timidity. I persuade myself
you will if you can.

Indeed, sir, I will, said I; for I am quite ashamed of myself, with all these lovely views
before me!--The honours you do me, the kindness you shew me!--I cannot forgive myself! For,
oh! if I know the least of this idle foolish heart of mine, it has not a misgiving thought
of your goodness; and I should abhor it, if it were capable of the least affectation.--But,
dear good sir, leave me a little to myself, and I will take myself to a severer task than your
goodness will let you do and I will present my heart before you, a worthier offering to you,
than at present its wayward follies will let it seem to be.--But one thing is, one has no kind
friend of one's own sex, to communicate one's foolish thoughts to, and to be strengthened by
their comfortings! But I am left to myself; and, oh! what a weak silly thing I am!

He kindly withdrew, to give me time to recollect myself; and in about half an hour returned:
and then, that he might not begin at once upon the subject, and say, at the same time, something
agreeable to me, said, Your father and mother have had a great deal of talk by this time about
you, Pamela. O, sir, returned I, your goodness has made them quite happy! But I can't help
being concerned about Lady Davers.

He said, I am vexed I did not hear the footman out; because it runs in my head he talked somewhat
about her coming hither. She will meet with but an indifferent reception from me, unless she
comes resolved to behave better than she writes.

Pray, sir, said I, be pleased to bear with my good lady, for two reasons. What are they? said
he. Why, first, sir, answered I, because she is your sister; and, to be sure, may very well
think, what all the world will, that you have much undervalued yourself in making me happy.
And next, because, if her ladyship finds you out of temper with her, it will still aggravate
her more against me; and every time that any warm words you may have between you, come into
her mind, she will disdain me more.

Don't concern yourself about it, said he; for we have more proud ladies than she in our other
neighbourhood, who, perhaps, have still less reason to be punctilious about their descent,
and yet will form themselves upon her example, and say, Why, his own sister will not forgive
him, nor visit him! And so, if I can subdue her spirit, which is more than her husband ever
could, or indeed any body else, it is a great point gained: And, if she gives me reason, I'll
try for it, I assure you.

Well, but, my dear girl, continued he, since the subject is so important, may I not say one
word about to-morrow?--Sir, said I, I hope I shall be less a fool: I have talked as harshly
to my heart, as Lady Davers can do; and the naughty thing suggests to me a better, and more
grateful behaviour.

He smiled, and, kissing me, said, I took notice, Pamela, of what you observed, that you have
none of your own sex with you; I think it is a little hard upon you; and I should have liked
you should have had Miss Darnford; but then her sister must have been asked; and I might as
well make a public wedding: which, you know, would have required clothes and other preparations.
Besides, added he, a foolish proposal was once made me of that second sister, who has two or
three thousand pounds more than the other, left her by a godmother, and she can't help being
a little piqued; though, said he, it was a proposal they could not expect should succeed; for
there is nothing in her person nor mind; and her fortune, as that must have been the only inducement,
would not do by any means; and so I discouraged it at once.

I am thinking, sir, said I, of another mortifying thing too; that were you to marry a lady
of birth and fortune answerable to your own, all the eve to the day would be taken up in reading,
signing, and sealing of settlements, and portion, and such like: But now the poor Pamela brings
you nothing at all: And the very clothes she wears, so very low is she, are entirely the effects
of your bounty, and that of your good mother: This makes me a little sad: For, alas! sir, I
am so much oppressed by your favours, and the sense of the obligations I lie under, that I
cannot look up with the confidence that I otherwise should, on this awful occasion.

There is, my dear Pamela, said he, where the power is wanting, as much generosity in the will
as in the action. To all that know your story, and your merit, it will appear that I cannot
recompense you for what I have made you suffer. You have had too many hard struggles and exercises;
and have nobly overcome: and who shall grudge you the reward of the hard-bought victory?--This
affair is so much the act of my own will, that I glory in being capable of distinguishing so
much excellence; and my fortune is the more pleasurable to me, as it gives me hope, that I
may make you some part of satisfaction for what you have undergone.

This, sir, said I, is all goodness, unmerited on my side; and makes my obligations the greater.
I can only wish for more worthiness.--But how poor is it to offer nothing but words for such
generous deeds!--And to say, I wish!--For what is a wish, but the acknowledged want of power
to oblige, and a demonstration of one's poverty in every thing but will?

And that, my dear girl, said he, is every thing: 'Tis all I want: 'Tis all that Heaven itself
requires of us: But no more of these little doubts, though they are the natural impulses of
a generous and grateful heart: I want not to be employed in settlements. Those are for such
to regard, who make convenience and fortune the prime considerations. I have possessions ample
enough for us both; and you deserve to share them with me; and you shall do it, with as little
reserve, as if you had brought me what the world reckons an equivalent: for, as to my own opinion,
you bring me what is infinitely more valuable, an experienced truth, a well-tried virtue, and
a wit and behaviour more than equal to the station you will be placed in: To say nothing of
this sweet person, that itself might captivate a monarch; and of the meekness of temper, and
sweetness of disposition, which make you superior to all the women I ever saw.

Thus kind and soothing, and honourably affectionate, was the dear gentleman, to the unworthy,
doubting, yet assured Pamela; and thus patiently did he indulge, and generously pardon, my
impertinent weakness. He offered to go himself to Lady Jones, in the morning, and reveal the
matter to her, and desire her secrecy and presence; but I said, That would disoblige the young
Ladies Darnford. No, sir, said I, I will cast myself upon your generous kindness; for why should
I fear the kind protector of my weakness, and the guide and director of my future steps?

You cannot, said he, forgive Mrs. Jewkes; for she must know it; and suffer her to be with you?
Yes, sir, said I, I can. She is very civil to me now: and her former wickedness I will forgive,
for the sake of the happy fruits that have attended it; and because you mention her.

Well, said he, I will call her in, if you please.--As you please, sir, said I. And he rung
for her; and when she came in, he said, Mrs. Jewkes, I am going to entrust you with a secret.
Sir, answered she, I will be sure to keep it as such. Why, said he, we intend to-morrow, privately
as possible, for our wedding-day; and Mr. Peters and Mr. Williams are to be here, as to breakfast
with me, and to shew Mr. Peters my little chapel. As soon as the ceremony is over, we will
take a little airing in the chariot, as we have done at other times; and so it will not be
wondered that we are dressed. And the two parsons have promised secrecy, and will go home.
I believe you can't well avoid letting one of the maids into the secret; but that I'll leave
to you.

Sir, replied she, we all concluded it would be in a few days! and I doubt it won't be long
a secret. No, said he, I don't desire it should; but you know we are not provided for a public
wedding, and I shall declare it when we go to Bedfordshire, which won't be long. But the men,
who lie in the outhouses, need not know it; for, by some means or other, my sister Davers knows
all that passes.

Do you know, sir, said she, that her ladyship intends to be down here with you in a few days?
Her servant told me so, who brought you the letter you were angry at.

I hope, said he, we shall be set out for t'other house first; and shall be pleased she loses
her labour. Sir, continued she, her ladyship, proposes to be here time enough to hinder your
nuptials, which she takes, as we did, will be the latter end of next week. Well, said he, let
her come: but yet I desire not to see her.

Mrs. Jewkes said to me, Give me leave, madam, to wish you all manner of happiness: But I am
afraid I have too well obeyed his honour, to be forgiven by you. Indeed, Mrs. Jewkes, returned
I, you will be more your own enemy than I will be. I will look all forward: and shall not presume,
so much as by a whisper, to set my good master against any one he pleases to approve of: And
as to his old servants, I shall always value them, and never offer to dictate to his choice,
or influence it by my own caprices.

Mrs. Jewkes, said my master, you find you have no cause to apprehend any thing. My Pamela is
very placable; and as we have both been sinners together, we must both be included in one act
of grace.

Such an example of condescension, as I have before me, Mrs. Jewkes, said I, may make you very
easy; for I must be highly unworthy, if I did not forego all my little resentments, if I had
any, for the sake of so much goodness to myself.

You are very kind, madam, said she; and you may depend upon it, I will atone for all my faults,
by my future duty and respect to you, as well as to my master.

That's well said on both sides, said he: but, Mrs. Jewkes, to assure you, that my good girl
here has no malice, she chooses you to attend her in the morning at the ceremony, and you must
keep up her spirits.--I shall, replied she, be very proud of the honour: But I cannot, madam,
but wonder to see you so very low-spirited, as you have been these two or three days past,
with so much happiness before you.

Why, Mrs. Jewkes, answered I, there can be but one reason given; and that is, that I am a sad
fool!--But, indeed, I am not ungrateful neither; nor would I put on a foolish affectation:
But my heart, at times, sinks within me; I know not why, except at my own unworthiness, and
because the honour done me is too high for me to support myself under, as I should do. It is
an honour, Mrs. Jewkes, added I, I was not born to; and no wonder, then, I behave so awkwardly.
She made me a fine compliment upon it, and withdrew, repeating her promises of care, secrecy, etc.

He parted from me with very great tenderness; and I came up and set to writing, to amuse my
thoughts, and wrote thus far. And Mrs. Jewkes being come up, and it being past twelve, I will
go to bed; but not one wink, I fear, shall I get this night.--I could beat myself for anger.
Sure there is nothing ominous in this strange folly!--But I suppose all young maidens are the
same, so near so great a change of condition, though they carry it off more discreetly than I.

Thursday, six o'clock in the morning.

I might as well have not gone to bed last night, for what sleep I had. Mrs. Jewkes often was
talking to me, and said several things that would have been well enough from any body else
of our sex; but the poor woman has so little purity of heart, that it is all say from her,
and goes no farther than the ear.

I fancy my master has not slept much neither; for I heard him up, and walking about his chamber,
ever since break of day. To be sure, good gentleman! he must have some concern, as well as
I; for here he is going to marry a poor foolish unworthy girl, brought up on the charity, as
one may say, (at least bounty,) of his worthy family! And this foolish girl must be, to all
intents and purposes, after twelve o'clock this day, as much his wife, as if he were to marry
a duchess!--And here he must stand the shocks of common reflection! The great Mr. B---- has
done finely! he has married his poor servant wench! will some say. The ridicule and rude jests
of his equals, and companions too, he must stand: And the disdain of his relations, and indignation
of Lady Davers, his lofty sister! Dear good gentleman! he will have enough to do, to be sure!
O how shall I merit all these things at his hand! I can only do the best I can; and pray to
God to reward him; and resolve to love him with a pure heart, and serve him with a sincere
obedience. I hope the dear gentleman will continue to love me for this; for, alas! I have nothing
else to offer! But, as I can hardly expect so great a blessing, if I can be secure from his
contempt, I shall not be unfortunate; and must bear his indifference, if his rich friends should
inspire him with it, and proceed with doing my duty with cheerfulness.

Half an hour past eight o'clock.

My good dear master, my kind friend, my generous benefactor, my worthy protector, and, oh!
all the good words in one, my affectionate husband, that is soon to be--(be curbed in, my proud
heart, know thy self, and be conscious of thy unworthiness!)--has just left me, with the kindest,
tenderest expressions, and gentlest behaviour, that ever blest a happy maiden. He approached
me with a sort of reined-in rapture. My Pamela! said he, May I just ask after your employment?
Don't let me chide my dear girl this day, however. The two parsons will be here to breakfast
with us at nine; and yet you are not a bit dressed! Why this absence of mind, and sweet irresolution?

Why, indeed, sir, said I, I will set about a reformation this instant. He saw the common-prayer
book lying in the window. I hope, said he, my lovely maiden has been conning the lesson she
is by-and-by to repeat. Have you not, Pamela? and clasped his arms about me, and kissed me.
Indeed, sir, said I, I have been reading over the solemn service.--And what thinks my fairest
(for so he called me) of it?--O sir, 'tis very awful, and makes one shudder, to reflect upon
it!--No wonder, said he, it should affect my sweet Pamela: I have been looking into it this
morning, and I can't say but I think it a solemn, but very suitable service. But this I tell
my dear love, continued he, and again clasped me to him, there is not a tittle in it that I
cannot joyfully subscribe to: And that, my dear Pamela, should make you easy, and join cheerfully
in it with me. I kissed his dear hand: O my generous, kind protector, said I, how gracious
is it to confirm thus the doubting mind of your poor servant! which apprehends nothing so much
as her own unworthiness of the honour and blessing that await her!--He was pleased to say,
I know well, my dearest creature, that, according to the liberties we people of fortune generally
give ourselves, I have promised a great deal, when I say so. But I would not have said it,
if, deliberately, I could not with all my heart. So banish from your mind all doubt and uneasiness;
let a generous confidence in me take place; and let me see it does, by your cheerfulness in
this day's solemn business; and then I will love you for ever!

May God Almighty, sir, said I, reward all your goodness to me!--That is all I can say. But,
oh! how kind it is in you, to supply the want of the presence and comfortings of a dear mother,
of a loving sister, or of the kind companions of my own sex, which most maidens have, to soothe
their anxieties on the so near approach of so awful a solemnity!--You, sir, are all these tender
relations in one to me! Your condescensions and kindness shall, if possible, embolden me to
look up to you without that sweet terror, that must confound poor bashful maidens, on such
an occasion, when they are surrendered up to a more doubtful happiness, and to half-strange
men, whose good faith, and good usage of them, must be less experienced, and is all involved
in the dark bosom of futurity, and only to be proved by the event.

This, my dear Pamela, said he, is most kindly said! It shews me that you enter gratefully into
my intention. For I would, by my conduct, supply all these dear relations to you; and I voluntarily
promise, from my heart, to you, what I think I could not, with such assured resolutions of
performance, to the highest-born lady in the kingdom. For let me tell my sweet girl, that,
after having been long tossed by the boisterous winds of a more culpable passion, I have now
conquered it, and am not so much the victim of your beauty, all charming as you are, as of
your virtue; and therefore may more boldly promise for myself, having so stable a foundation
for my affection; which, should this outward beauty fail, will increase with your virtue, and
shine forth the brighter, as that is more illustriously displayed by the augmented opportunities
which the condition you are now entering into will afford you.--O the dear charming man! how
nobly, how encouragingly kind, was all this!

I could not suitably express myself: And he said, I see my girl is at a loss for words! I doubt
not your kind acceptance of my declarations. And when I have acted too much the part of a libertine
formerly, for you to look back without some anxiety, I ought not, being now happily convicted,
to say less.--But why loses my girl her time? I will now only add, that I hope for many happy
years to make good, by my conduct, what so willingly flows from my lips.

He kissed me again, and said, But, whatever you do, Pamela, be cheerful; for else, may be,
of the small company we shall have, some one, not knowing how to account for your too nice
modesty, will think there is some other person in the world, whose addresses would be still
more agreeable to you.

This he said with an air of sweetness and pleasantry; but it alarmed me exceedingly, and made
me resolve to appear as calm and cheerful as possible. For this was, indeed, a most affecting
expression, and enough to make me, if any thing can, behave as I ought, and to force my idle
fears to give way to hopes so much better grounded.--And I began almost, on this occasion,
to wish Mr. Williams were not to marry me, lest I should behave like a fool; and so be liable
to an imputation, which I should be most unworthy, if I deserved.

So I set about dressing me instantly; and he sent Mrs. Jewkes to assist me. But I am never
long a dressing, when I set about it; and my master has now given me a hint, that will, for
half an hour more, at least, keep my spirits in a brisk circulation. Yet it concerns me a little
too, lest he should have any the least shadow of a doubt, that I am not, mind and person, entirely
his.

And so being now ready, and not called to breakfast, I sat down and wrote thus far.

I might have mentioned, that I dressed myself in a rich white satin night-gown, that had been
my good lady's, and my best head-clothes, etc. I have got such a knack of writing, that when
I am by myself, I cannot sit without a pen in my hand.--But I am now called to breakfast. I
suppose the gentlemen are come.--Now, courage, Pamela! Remember thou art upon thy good behaviour!--Fie
upon it! my heart begins to flutter again!--Foolish heart! be still! Never, sure, was any maiden's
perverse heart under so little command as mine!--It gave itself away, at first, without my
leave; it has been, for weeks, pressing me with its wishes; and yet now, when it should be
happy itself, and make me so, it is throb, throb, throb, like a little fool! and filling me
with such unseasonable misgivings, as abate the rising comforts of all my better prospects.

Thursday, near three o'clock.

I thought I should have found no time nor heart to write again this day. But here are three
gentlemen come, unexpectedly, to dine with my master; and so I shall not appear. He has done
all he could, civilly, to send them away; but they will stay, though I believe he had rather
they would not. And so I have nothing to do but to write till I go to dinner myself with Mrs.
Jewkes: for my master was not prepared for this company; and it will be a little latish to-day.
So I will begin with my happy story where I left off.

When I came down to breakfast, Mr. Peters and Mr. Williams were both there. And as soon as
my master heard me coming down, he met me at the door, and led me in with great tenderness.
He had kindly spoken to them, as he told me afterwards, to mention no more of the matter to
me, than needs must. I paid my respects to them, I believe a little awkwardly, and was almost
out of breath: but said, I had come down a little too fast.

When Abraham came in to wait, my master said, (that the servants should not mistrust,) 'Tis
well, gentlemen, you came as you did; for my good girl and I were going to take an airing till
dinner-time. I hope you'll stay and dine with me. Sir, said Mr. Peters, we won't hinder your
airing. I only came, having a little time upon my hands, to see your chapel; but must be at
home at dinner; and Mr. Williams will dine with me. Well then, said my master, we will pursue
our intention, and ride out for an hour or two, as soon as I have shewn Mr. Peters my little
chapel. Will you, Pamela, after breakfast, walk with us to it? If, if, said I, and had like
to have stammered, foolish that I was! if you please, sir. I could look none of them in the
face. Abraham looking at me; Why, child, said my master, you have hardly recovered your fright
yet: how came your foot to slip? 'Tis well you did not hurt yourself. Said Mr. Peters, improving
the hint, You ha'n't sprained your ancle, madam, I hope. No, sir, said I, I believe not; but
'tis a little painful to me. And so it was; for I meant my foolishness! Abraham, said my master,
bid Robin put the horses to the coach, instead of the chariot; and if these gentlemen will
go, we can set them down. No matter, sir, said Mr. Peters: I had as lieve walk, if Mr. Williams
chooses it. Well then, said my master, let it be the chariot, as I told him.

I could eat nothing, though I attempted it; and my hand shook so, I spilled some of my chocolate,
and so put it down again; and they were all very good, and looked another way. My master said,
when Abraham was out, I have a quite plain ring here, Mr. Peters: And I hope the ceremony will
dignify the ring; and that I shall give my girl reason to think it, for that cause, the most
valuable one that can be presented her. Mr. Peters said, He was sure I should value it more
than the richest diamond in the world.

I had bid Mrs. Jewkes not to dress herself, lest she should give cause of mistrust; and she
took my advice.

When breakfast was over, my master said, before Abraham, Well, gentlemen, we will step into
the chapel; and you must give me your advice, as to the alterations I design. I am in the more
haste, because the survey you are going to take of it, for the alterations, will take up a
little time; and we shall have but a small space between that and dinner, for the little tour
I design to make.--Pamela, you'll give us your opinion, won't you? Yes, sir, said I; I'll come
after you.

So they went out, and I sat down in the chair again, and fanned myself: I am sick at heart,
said I, I think, Mrs. Jewkes. Said she, Shall I fetch you a little cordial?--No, said I, I
am a sad fool! I want spirits, that's all. She took her smelling-bottle, and would have given
it me: but I said, Keep it in your hand; may be I shall want it: but I hope not.

She gave me very good words, and begged me to go: And I got up; but my knees beat so against
one another, I was forced to sit down again. But, at last, I held by her arm, and passing by
Abraham, I said, This ugly slip, coming down stairs, has made me limp, though; so I must hold
by you, Mrs. Jewkes. Do you know what alterations there are to be in the chapel, that we must
all give our opinions of them?

Nan, she told me, was let into the secret; and she had ordered her to stay at the chapel door,
to see that nobody came in. My dear master came to me, at entering the chapel, and took my
hand, and led me up to the altar. Remember, my dear girl, whispered he, and be cheerful. I
am, I will, sir, said I; but I hardly knew what I said; and so you may believe, when I said
to Mrs. Jewkes, Don't leave me; pray, Mrs. Jewkes, don't leave me; as if I had all confidence
in her, and none where it was most due. So she kept close to me. God forgive me! but I never
was so absent in my life, as at first; even till Mr. Williams had gone on in the service, so
far as to the awful words about requiring us, as we should answer at the dreadful day of judgment;
and then the solemn words, and my master's whispering, Mind this, my dear, made me start. Said
he, still whispering, Know you any impediment? I blushed, and said softly, None, sir, but my
great unworthiness.

Then followed the sweet words, Wilt thou have this woman to thy wedded wife? etc. and I began
to take heart a little, when my dearest master answered, audibly, to this question, I will.
But I could only make a courtesy, when they asked me; though, I am sure, my heart was readier
than my speech, and answered to every article of obey, serve, love, and honour.

Mr. Peters gave me away; and I said, after Mr. Williams, as well as I could, as my dear master
did with a much better grace, the words of betrothment; and the ceremony of the ring passing
next, I received the dear favour at his worthy hands with a most grateful heart; and he was
pleased to say afterwards in the chariot, that when he had done saying, With this ring I thee
wed, etc. I made a courtesy, and said, Thank you, sir. May be I did; for I am sure it was a
most grateful part of the service, and my heart was overwhelmed with his goodness, and the
tender grace wherewith he performed it. I was very glad, that the next part was the prayer,
and kneeling; for I trembled so, I could hardly stand, betwixt fear and joy.

The joining of our hands afterwards, the declaration of our being married to the few witnesses
present; for, reckoning Nan, whose curiosity would not let her stay at the door, there were
but Mr. Peters, Mrs. Jewkes, and she; the blessing, the psalm, and the subsequent prayers,
and the concluding exhortation; were so many beautiful, welcome, and lovely parts of this divine
office, that my heart began to be delighted with them; and my spirits to be a little freer.

And thus, my dearest, dear parents, is your happy, happy, thrice happy Pamela, at last married;
and to whom?--Why, to her beloved, gracious master! the lord of her wishes! And thus the dear,
once naughty assailer of her innocence, by a blessed turn of Providence, is become the kind,
the generous protector and rewarder of it. God be evermore blessed and praised! and make me
not wholly unworthy of such a transcendent honour!--And bless and reward the dear, dear, good
gentleman, who has thus exalted his unworthy servant, and given her a place, which the greatest
ladies would think themselves happy in!

My master saluted me most ardently, and said, God give you, my dear love, as much joy on this
occasion, as I have! And he presented me to Mr. Peters, who saluted me; and said, You may excuse
me, dear madam, for I gave you away, and you are my daughter. And Mr. Williams modestly withdrawing
a little way; Mr. Williams, said my master, pray accept my thanks, and wish your sister joy.
So he saluted me too; and said, Most heartily, madam, I do. And I will say, that to see so
much innocence and virtue so eminently rewarded, is one of the greatest pleasures I have ever
known. This my master took very kindly.

Mrs. Jewkes would have kissed my hand at the chapel-door; but I put my arms about her neck,
for I had got a new recruit of spirits just then; and kissed her, and said, Thank you, Mrs.
Jewkes, for accompanying me. I have behaved sadly. No, madam, said she, pretty well, pretty well!

Mr. Peters walked out with me; and Mr. Williams and my master came out after us, talking together.

Mr. Peters, when we came into the parlour, said, I once more, madam, must wish you joy on this
happy occasion. I wish every day may add to your comforts; and may you very long rejoice in
one another! for you are the loveliest couple I ever saw joined. I told him, I was highly obliged
to his kind opinion, and good wishes; and hoped my future conduct would not make me unworthy
of them.

My good benefactor came in with Mr. Williams: So, my dear life, said he, how do you do? A little
more composed, I hope. Well, you see this is not so dreadful an affair as you apprehended.

Sir, said Mr. Peters, very kindly, it is a very solemn circumstance; and I love to see it so
reverently and awfully entered upon. It is a most excellent sign; for the most thoughtful beginnings
make the most prudent proceedings.

Mrs. Jewkes, of her own accord, came in with a large silver tumbler, filled with sack, and
a toast, and nutmeg, and sugar; and my master said, That's well thought of, Mrs. Jewkes; for
we have made but sorry breakfasting. And he would make me, take some of the toast; as they
all did, and drank pretty heartily: and I drank a little, and it cheered my heart, I thought,
for an hour after.

My master took a fine diamond ring from his finger, and presented it to Mr. Peters, who received
it very kindly. And to Mr. Williams he said, My old acquaintance, I have reserved for you,
against a variety of solicitations, the living I always designed for you; and I beg you'll
prepare to take possession of it; and as the doing it may be attended with some expense, pray
accept of this towards it; and so he gave him (as he told me afterwards it was) a bank note of 50l.

So did this generous good gentleman bless us all, and me in particular; for whose sake he was
as bounteous as if he had married one of the noblest fortunes.

So he took his leave of the gentlemen, recommending secrecy again, for a few days, and they
left him; and none of the servants suspected any thing, as Mrs. Jewkes believes. And then I
threw myself at his feet, blessed God, and blessed him for his goodness; and he overwhelmed
me with kindness, calling me his sweet bride, and twenty lovely epithets, that swell my grateful
heart beyond the power of utterance.

He afterwards led me to the chariot; and we took a delightful tour round the neighbouring villages;
and he did all he could to dissipate those still perverse anxieties that dwell upon my mind,
and, do what I can, spread too thoughtful an air, as he tells me, over my countenance.

We came home again by half an hour after one; and he was pleasing himself with thinking, not
to be an hour out of my company this blessed day, that (as he was so good as to say) he might
inspire me with a familiarity that should improve my confidence in him, when he was told, that
a footman of Sir Charles Hargrave had been here, to let him know, that his master, and two
other gentlemen, were on the road to take a dinner with him, in their way to Nottingham.

He was heartily vexed at this, and said to me, He should have been glad of their companies
at any other time; but that it was a barbarous intrusion now; and he wished they had been told
he would not be at home at dinner: And besides, said he, they are horrid drinkers; and I shan't
be able to get them away to-night, perhaps; for they have nothing to do, but to travel round
the country, and beat up their friends' quarters all the way; and it is all one to them, whether
they stay a night or a month at a place. But, added he, I'll find some way, if I can, to turn
them off, after dinner.--Confound them, said he, in a violent pet, that they should come this
day, of all the days in the year!

We had hardly alighted, and got in, before they came: Three mad rakes they seemed to be, as
I looked through the window, setting up a hunting note, as soon as they came to the gate, that
made the court-yard echo again; and smacking their whips in concert.

So I went up to my chamber, and saw (what made my heart throb) Mrs. Jewkes's officious pains
to put the room in order for a guest, that, however welcome, as now my duty teaches me to say,
is yet dreadful to me to think of. So I took refuge in my closet, and had recourse to pen and
ink, for my amusement, and to divert my anxiety of mind.--If one's heart is so sad, and one's
apprehension so great, where one so extremely loves, and is so extremely obliged; what must
be the case of those poor maidens, who are forced, for sordid views, by their tyrannical parents
or guardians, to marry the man they almost hate, and, perhaps, to the loss of the man they
most love! O that is a sad thing, indeed!--And what have not such cruel parents to answer for!
And what do not such poor innocent victims suffer!--But, blessed be God, this lot is far from
being mine!

My good master (for I cannot yet have the presumption to call him by a more tender name) came
up to me, and said, Well, I just come to ask my dear bride (O the charming, charming word!)
how she does? I see you are writing, my dear, said he. These confounded rakes are half mad,
I think, and will make me so! However, said he, I have ordered my chariot to be got ready,
as if I was under an engagement five miles off, and will set them out of the house, if possible;
and then ride round, and come back, as soon as I can get rid of them. I find, said he, Lady
Davers is full of our affairs. She has taken great freedoms with me before Sir Charles; and
they have all been at me, without mercy; and I was forced to be very serious with them, or
else they would have come up to have seen you, since I would not call you down.--He kissed
me, and said, I shall quarrel with them, if I can't get them away; for I have lost two or three
precious hours with my soul's delight: And so he went down.

Mrs. Jewkes asked me to walk down to dinner in the little parlour. I went down, and she was
so complaisant as to offer to wait upon me at table; and would not be persuaded, without difficulty,
to sit down with me. But I insisted she should: For, said I, it would be very extraordinary,
if one should so soon go into such distance, Mrs. Jewkes.--Whatever my new station may require
of me, added I, I hope I shall always conduct myself in such a manner, that pride and insolence
shall bear no part in my character.

You are very good, madam, said she; but I will always know my duty to my master's lady.--Why
then, replied I, if I must take state upon me so early, Mrs. Jewkes, let me exact from you
what you call your duty; and sit down with me when I desire you.

This prevailed upon her; and I made shift to get down a bit of apple-pye, and a little custard;
but that was all.

My good master came in again, and said, Well, thank my stars! these rakes are going now; but
I must set out with them, and I choose my chariot; for if I took horse, I should have difficulty
to part with them; for they are like a snowball, and intend to gather company as they go, to
make a merry tour of it for some days together.

We both got up, when he came in: Fie, Pamela! said he; why this ceremony now?--Sit still, Mrs.
Jewkes.--Nay, sir, said she, I was loath to sit down; but my lady would have me.--She is very
right, Mrs. Jewkes, said my master, and tapped me on the cheek; for we are but yet half married;
and so she is not above half your lady yet!--Don't look so down, don't be so silent, my dearest,
said he; why, you hardly spoke twenty words to me all the time we were out together. Something
I will allow for your bashful sweetness; but not too much.--Mrs. Jewkes, have you no pleasant
tales to tell my Pamela, to make her smile, till I return?--Yes, sir, said she, I could tell
twenty pleasant stories; but my lady is too nice to hear them; and yet, I hope, I should not
be shocking neither. Ah! poor woman! thought I; thy chastest stories will make a modest person
blush, if I know thee! and I desire to hear none of them.

My master said, Tell her one of the shortest you have, in my hearing. Why, sir, said she, I
knew a bashful young lady, as madam may be, married to--Dear Mrs. Jewkes, interrupted I, no
more of your story, I beseech you; I don't like the beginning of it. Go on, Mrs. Jewkes, said
my master. No, pray, sir, don't require it, said I, pray don't. Well, said he, then we'll have
it another time, Mrs. Jewkes.

Abraham coming in to tell him the gentlemen were going, and that his chariot was ready; I am
glad of that, said he; and went to them, and set out with them.

I took a turn in the garden with Mrs. Jewkes, after they were gone: And having walked a while,
I said, I should be glad of her company down the elm-walk, to meet the chariot: For, O! I know
not how to look up at him, when he is with me; nor how to bear his absence, when I have reason
to expect him: What a strange contradiction there is in this unaccountable passion.

What a different aspect every thing in and about this house bears now, to my thinking, to what
it once had! The garden, the pond, the alcove, the elm-walk. But, oh! my prison is become my
palace; and no wonder every thing wears another face!

We sat down upon the broad stile, leading towards the road; and Mrs. Jewkes was quite another
person to me, to what she was the last time I sat there.

At last my best beloved returned, and alighted there. What, my Pamela! (and Mrs. Jewkes then
left me,) What (said he, and kissed me) brings you this way? I hope to meet me.--Yes, sir,
said I. That's kind, indeed, said he; but why that averted eye?--that downcast countenance,
as if you was afraid of me? You must not think so, sir, said I. Revive my heart then, said
he, with a more cheerful aspect; and let that over-anxious solicitude, which appears in the
most charming face in the world, be chased from it.--Have you, my dear girl any fears that
I can dissipate; any doubts that I can obviate; any hopes that I can encourage; any request
that I can gratify?--Speak, my dear Pamela; and if I have power, but speak, and to purchase
one smile, it shall be done!

I cannot, sir, said I, have any fears, any doubts, but that I shall never be able to deserve
all your goodness. I have no hopes, but that my future conduct may be agreeable to you, and
my determined duty well accepted. Nor have I any request to make, but that you will forgive
all my imperfections and, among the rest, this foolish weakness, that makes me seem to you,
after all the generous things that have passed, to want this further condescension, and these
kind assurances. But indeed, sir, I am oppressed by your bounty; my spirits sink under the
weight of it; and the oppression is still the greater, as I see not how, possibly, in my whole
future life, by all I can do, to merit the least of your favours.

I know your grateful heart, said he; but remember, my dear, what the lawyers tell us, That
marriage is the highest consideration which the law knows. And this, my sweet bride, has made
you mine, and me yours; and you have the best claim in the world to share my fortune with me.
But, set that consideration aside, what is the obligation you have to me? Your mind is pure
as that of an angel, and as much transcends mine. Your wit, and your judgment, to make you
no compliment, are more than equal to mine: You have all the graces that education can give
a woman, improved by a genius which makes those graces natural to you. You have a sweetness
of temper, and a noble sincerity, beyond all comparison; and in the beauty of your person,
you excel all the ladies I ever saw. Where then, my dearest, is the obligation, if not on my
side to you?--But, to avoid these comparisons, let us talk of nothing henceforth but equality;
although, if the riches of your mind, and your unblemished virtue, be set against my fortune,
(which is but an accidental good, as I may call it, and all I have to boast of,) the condescension
will be yours; and I shall not think I can possibly deserve you, till, after your sweet example,
my future life shall become nearly as blameless as yours.

O, sir, said I, what comfort do you give me, that, instead of my being in danger of being ensnared
by the high condition to which your goodness has exalted me, you make me hope, that I shall
be confirmed and approved by you; and that we may have a prospect of perpetuating each other's
happiness, till time shall be no more!--But, sir, I will not, as you once cautioned me, be
too serious. I will resolve, with these sweet encouragements, to be, in every thing, what you
would have me be: And I hope I shall, more and more, shew you that I have no will but yours.
He kissed me very tenderly, and thanked me for this kind assurance, as he called it.

And so we entered the house together.

Eight o'clock at night.

Now these sweet assurances, my dear father and mother, you will say, must be very consolatory
to me; and being voluntary on his side, were all that could be wished for on mine; and I was
resolved, if possible, to subdue my idle fears and apprehensions.

Ten o'clock at night.

As we sat at supper, he was generously kind to me, as well in his actions, as expressions.
He took notice, in the most delicate manner, of my endeavour to conquer my foibles; and said,
I see, with pleasure, my dear girl strives to comport herself in a manner suitable to my wishes:
I see, even through the sweet tender struggles of your over-nice modesty, how much I owe to
your intentions of obliging me. As I have once told you, that I am the conquest more of your
virtue than your beauty; so not one alarming word or look shall my beloved Pamela hear or see,
to give her reason to suspect the truth of what I aver. You may the rather believe me, continued
he, as you may see the pain I have to behold any thing that concerns you, even though your
concern be causeless. And yet I will indulge my dear girl's bashful weakness so far, as to
own, that so pure a mind may suffer from apprehension, on so important a change as this; and
I can therefore be only displeased with such part of your conduct, as may make your sufferings
greater than my own; when I am resolved, through every stage of my future life, in all events,
to study to make them less.

After supper, of which, with all his sweet persuasions, I could hardly taste, he made me drink
two glasses of champaign, and, afterwards, a glass of sack; which he kindly forced upon me,
by naming your healths: and as the time of retiring drew on, he took notice, but in a very
delicate manner, how my colour went and came, and how foolishly I trembled. Nobody, surely,
in such delightful circumstances, ever behaved so silly!--And he said, My dearest girl, I fear
you have had too much of my company for so many hours together; and would better recollect
yourself, if you retired for half an hour to your closet.

I wished for this, but durst not say so much, lest he should be angry; for, as the hours grew
on, I found my apprehensions increase, and my silly heart was the unquieter, every time I could
lift up my eyes to his dear face; so sweetly terrible did he appear to my apprehensions. I
said, You are all goodness, dear sir; and I boldly kissed his dear hand, and pressed it to
my lips with both mine. And saluting me very fervently, he gave me his hand, seeing me hardly
able to stand, and led me to my chamber-door, and then most generously withdrew.

I went to my closet; and the first thing I did, on my knees, again thanked God for the blessing
of the day; and besought his divine goodness to conduct my future life in such a manner, as
should make me a happy instrument of his glory. After this, being now left to my own recollection,
I grew a little more assured and lightsome; and the pen and paper being before me, I amused
myself with writing thus far.

Eleven o'clock Thursday night.

Mrs. Jewkes being come up with a message, desiring to know, whether her master may attend upon
me in my closet; and hinting to me, that, however, she believed he did not expect to find me
there; I have sent word, that I beg he would indulge me one quarter of an hour.--So, committing
myself to the mercies of the Almighty, who has led me through so many strange scenes of terror
and affrightment, to this happy, yet awful moment, I will wish you, my dear parents, a good
night; and though you will not see this in time, yet I know I have your hourly prayers, and
therefore cannot fail of them now. So, good night, good night! God bless you, and God bless
me! Amen, amen, if it be his blessed will, subscribes

                                            Your ever-dutiful DAUGHTER!

Friday evening.

O how this dear excellent man indulges me in every thing! Every hour he makes me happier, by
his sweet condescension, than the former. He pities my weakness of mind, allows for all my
little foibles, endeavours to dissipate my fears; his words are so pure, his ideas so chaste,
and his whole behaviour so sweetly decent, that never, surely, was so happy a creature as your
Pamela! I never could have hoped such a husband could have fallen to my lot: and much less,
that a gentleman, who had allowed himself in attempts, that now I will endeavour to forget
for ever, should have behaved with so very delicate and unexceptionable a demeanour. No light
frothy jests drop from his lips; no alarming railleries; no offensive expressions, nor insulting
airs, reproach or wound the ears of your happy, thrice happy daughter. In short, he says every
thing that may embolden me to look up, with pleasure, upon the generous author of my happiness.

At breakfast, when I knew not how to see him, he emboldened me by talking of you, my dear parents;
a subject, he generously knew, I could talk of: and gave me assurances, that he would make
you both happy. He said, He would have me send you a letter to acquaint you with my nuptials;
and, as he could make business that way, Thomas should carry it purposely, as to-morrow. Nor
will I, said he, my dear Pamela, desire to see your writings, because I told you I would not;
for now I will, in every thing, religiously keep my word with my dear spouse: (O the dear delightful
word!) and you may send all your papers to them, from those they have, down to this happy moment;
only let me beg they will preserve them, and let me have them when they have read them; as
also those I have not seen; which, however, I desire not to see till then; but then shall take
it for a favour, if you will grant it.

It will be my pleasure, as well as my duty, sir, said I, to obey you in every thing: and I
will write up to the conclusion of this day, that they may see how happy you have made me.

I know you will both join with me to bless God for his wonderful mercies and goodness to you,
as well as to me: For he was pleased to ask me particularly after your circumstances, and said,
He had taken notice, that I had hinted, in some of my first letters, that you owed money in
the world; and he gave me fifty guineas, and bid me send them to you in my packet, to pay your
debts, as far as they would go; and that you would quit your present business, and put yourself,
and my dear mother, into a creditable appearance; and he would find a better place of abode
for you than that you had, when he returned to Bedfordshire. O how shall I bear all these exceeding
great and generous favours!--I send them wrapt up, five guineas in a parcel, in double papers.

To me he gave no less than one hundred guineas more; and said, I would have you, my dear, give
Mrs. Jewkes, when you go away from hence, what you think fit out of these, as from yourself.--Nay,
good dear sir, said I, let that be what you please. Give her, then, said he, twenty guineas,
as a compliment on your nuptials. Give Colbrand ten guineas give: the two coachmen five guineas
each; to the two maids at this house five guineas each; give Abraham five guineas; give Thomas
five guineas; and give the gardeners, grooms, and helpers, twenty guineas among them. And when,
said he, I return with you to the other house, I will make you a suitable present, to buy you
such ornaments as are fit for my beloved wife to appear in. For now, my Pamela, continued he,
you are not to mind, as you once proposed, what other ladies will say; but to appear as my
wife ought to do. Else it would look as if what you thought of, as a means to avoid the envy
of others of your sex, was a wilful slight in me, which, I hope, I never shall be guilty of;
and I will shew the world, that I value you as I ought, and as if I had married the first fortune
in the kingdom: And why should it not be so, when I know none of the first quality that matches
you in excellence?

He saw I was at a loss for words, and said, I see, my dearest bride! my spouse! my wife! my
Pamela! your grateful confusion. And kissing me, as I was going to speak, I will stop your
dear mouth, said he: You shall not so much as thank me; for when I have done ten times more
than this, I shall but poorly express my love for so much beauty of mind, and loveliness of
person; which thus, said he, and clasped me to his generous bosom, I can proudly now call my
own!--O how, my dear parents, can I think of any thing, but redoubled love, joy, and gratitude!

And thus generously did he banish from my mind those painful reflections, and bashful apprehensions,
that made me dread to see him for the first time this day, when I was called to attend him
at breakfast; and made me all ease, composure, and tranquillity.

He then, thinking I seemed somewhat thoughtful, proposed a little turn in the chariot till
dinner-time: And this was another sweet relief to me; and he diverted me with twenty agreeable
relations, of what observations he had made in his travels; and gave me the characters of the
ladies and gentlemen in his other neighbourhood; telling me whose acquaintance he would have
me most cultivate. And when I mentioned Lady Davers with apprehension, he said, To be sure
I love my sister dearly, notwithstanding her violent spirit; and I know she loves me; and I
can allow a little for her pride, because I know what my own so lately was; and because she
knows not my Pamela, and her excellencies, as I do. But you must not, my dear, forget what
belongs to your character, as my wife, nor meanly stoop to her; though I know you will choose,
by softness, to try to move her to a proper behaviour. But it shall be my part to see, that
you do not yield too much.

However, continued he, as I would not publicly declare my marriage here, I hope she won't come
near us till we are in Bedfordshire; and then, when she knows we are married, she will keep
away, if she is not willing to be reconciled; for she dares not, surely, come to quarrel with
me, when she knows it is done; for that would have a hateful and wicked appearance, as if she
would try to make differences between man and wife.--But we will have no more of this subject,
nor talk of any thing, added he, that shall give concern to my dearest. And so he changed the
talk to a more pleasing subject, and said the kindest and most soothing things in the world.

When we came home, which was about dinner-time, he was the same obliging, kind gentleman; and,
in short, is studious to shew, on every occasion, his generous affection to me. And, after
dinner, he told me, he had already written to his draper, in town, to provide him new liveries;
and to his late mother's mercer, to send him down patterns of the most fashionable silks, for
my choice. I told him, I was unable to express my gratitude for his favours and generosity:
And as he knew best what befitted his own rank and condition, I would wholly remit myself to
his good pleasure. But, by all his repeated bounties to me, of so extraordinary a nature, I
could not but look forward with awe upon the condition to which he had exalted me; and now
I feared I should hardly be able to act up to it in such a manner as should justify the choice
he had condescended to make: But that, I hoped, I should have not only his generous allowance
for my imperfections, which I could only assure him should not be wilful ones, but his kind
instructions; and that as often as he observed any part of my conduct such as he could not
entirely approve, he would let me know it; and I would think his reproofs of beginning faults
the kindest and most affectionate things in the world because they would keep me from committing
greater; and be a means to continue to me the blessing of his good opinion.

He answered me in the kindest manner; and assured me, That nothing should ever lie upon his
mind which he would not reveal, and give me an opportunity either of convincing him, or being
convinced myself.

He then asked me, When I should be willing to go to the Bedfordshire house? I said, whenever
he pleased. We will come down hither again before the winter, said he, if you please, in order
to cultivate the acquaintance you have begun with Lady Jones, and Sir Simon's family; and,
if it please God to spare us to one another, in the winter I will give you, as I promised for
two or three months, the diversions of London. And I think, added he, if my dear pleases, we
will set out next week, about Tuesday, for t'other house. I can have no objection, sir, said
I, to any thing you propose; but how will you avoid Miss Darnford's solicitation for an evening
to dance? Why, said he, we can make Monday evening do for that purpose, if they won't excuse
us. But, if you please, said he, I will invite Lady Jones, Mr. Peters and his family, and Sir
Simon and his family, to my little chapel, on Sunday morning, and to stay dinner with me; and
then I will declare my marriage to them, because my dear life shall not leave this country
with the least reason for a possibility of any body's doubting that it is so. O! how good was
this! But, indeed, his conduct is all of a piece, noble, kind, and considerate! What a happy
creature am I!--And then, may be, said he, they will excuse us till we return into this country
again, as to the ball. Is there any thing, added he, that my beloved Pamela has still to wish?
If you have, freely speak.

Hitherto, my dearest sir, replied I, you have not only prevented my wishes, but my hopes, and
even my thoughts. And yet I must own, since your kind command of speaking my mind seems to
shew, that you expect from me I should say something; that I have only one or two things to
wish more, and then I shall be too happy. Say, said he, what they are. Sir, proceeded I, I
am, indeed, ashamed to ask any thing, lest it should not be agreeable to you; and lest it should
look as if I was taking advantage of your kind condescensions to me, and knew not when to be
satisfied!

I will only tell you, Pamela, said he, that you are not to imagine, that these things, which
I have done, in hopes of obliging you, are the sudden impulses of a new passion for you. But,
if I can answer for my own mind, they proceed from a regular and uniform desire of obliging
you: which, I hope, will last as long as your merit lasts; and that, I make no doubt, will
be as long as I live. And I can the rather answer for this, because I really find so much delight
in myself in my present way of thinking and acting, as infinitely overpays me; and which, for
that reason, I am likely to continue, for both our sakes. My beloved wife, therefore, said
he, for methinks I am grown fond of a name I once despised, may venture to speak her mind;
and I will promise, that, so far as it is agreeable to me, and I cheerfully can, I will comply;
and you will not insist upon it, if that should not be the case.

To be sure, sir, said I, I ought not, neither will I. And now you embolden me to become an
humble petitioner, and that, as I ought, upon my knees, for the reinstating such of your servants,
as I have been the unhappy occasion of their disobliging you. He raised me up, and said, My
beloved Pamela has too often been in this suppliant posture to me, to permit it any more. Rise,
my fairest, and let me know whom, in particular, you would reinstate; and he kindly held me
in his arms, and pressed me to his beloved bosom. Mrs. Jervis, sir, said I, in the first place;
for she is a good woman; and the misfortunes she has had in the world, must make your displeasure
most heavy to her.

Well, said he, who next? Mr. Longman, sir, said I; and I am sure, kind as they have been to
me, yet would I not ask it, if I could not vouch for their integrity, and if I did not think
it was my dear master's interest to have such good servants.

Have you any thing further? said he.--Sir, said I, your good old butler, who has so long been
in your family before the day of your happy birth, I would, if I might, become an advocate for!

Well, said he, I have only to say, That had not Mr. Longman and Mrs. Jervis, and Jonathan too,
joined in a body, in a bold appeal to Lady Davers, which has given her the insolent handle
she has taken to intermeddle in my affairs, I could easily have forgiven all the rest of their
conduct; though they have given their tongues no little license about me: But I could have
forgiven them, because I desire every body should admire you; and it is with pride that I observe
not only their opinion and love, but that of every body else that knows you, justify my own.--But
yet, I will forgive even this, because my Pamela desires it; and I will send a letter myself,
to tell Longman what he owes to your interposition, if the estate he has made in my family
does not set him above the acceptance of it. And, as to Mrs. Jervis, do you, my dear, write
a letter to her, and give her your commands, instantly, on, the receipt of it, to go and take
possession of her former charge; for now, my dearest girl, she will be more immediately your
servant; and I know you love her so well, that you'll go thither with the more pleasure to
find her there.--But don't think, added he, that all this compliance is to be for nothing.
Ah, sir! said I, tell me but what I can do, poor as I am in power, but rich in will; and I
will not hesitate one moment. Why then, said he, of your own accord, reward me for my cheerful
compliance, with one sweet kiss--I instantly said, Thus, then, dear sir, will I obey; and,
oh! you have the sweetest and most generous way in the world, to make that a condition, which
gives me double honour, and adds to my obligations. And so I clasped my arms about his neck,
and was not ashamed to kiss him once and twice, and three times; once for every forgiven person.

Now, my dearest Pamela, said he, what other things have you to ask? Mr. Williams is already
taken care of; and, I hope, will be happy.--Have you nothing to say for John Arnold?

Why, dear sir, said I, you have seen the poor fellow's penitence in my letters.--Yes, my dear,
so I have; but that is his penitence for his having served me against you; and, I think, when
he would have betrayed me afterwards, he deserves nothing to be said or done for him by either.

But, dear sir, said I, this is a day of jubilee; and the less he deserves, poor fellow, the
more will be your goodness. And let me add one word; That as he was divided in his inclinations
between his duty to you and good wishes to me, and knew not how to distinguish between the
one and the other, when he finds us so happily united by your great goodness to me, he will
have no more puzzles in his duty; for he has not failed in any other part of it; but, I hope,
will serve you faithfully for the future.

Well, then, suppose I put Mrs. Jewkes in a good way of business, in some inn, and give her
John for a husband? And then your gipsy story will be made out, that she will have a husband
younger than herself.

You are all goodness, sir, said I. I can freely forgive poor Mrs. Jewkes, and wish her happy.
But permit me, sir, to ask, Would not this look like a very heavy punishment to poor John?
and as if you could not forgive him, when you are so generous to every body else?

He smiled and said, O my Pamela, this, for a forgiving spirit, is very severe upon poor Jewkes:
But I shall never, by the grace of God, have any more such trying services, to put him or the
rest upon; and if you can forgive him, I think I may: and so John shall be at your disposal.
And now let me know what my Pamela has further to wish?

O, my dearest sir, said I, not a single wish more has your grateful Pamela! My heart is overwhelmed
with your goodness! Forgive these tears of joy, added I: You have left me nothing to pray for,
but that God will bless you with life, and health, and honour, and continue to me the blessing
of your esteem; and I shall then be the happiest creature in the world.

He clasped me in his arms, and said, You cannot, my dear life, be so happy in me, as I am in
you. O how heartily I despise all my former pursuits, and headstrong appetites! What joys,
what true joys, flow from virtuous love! joys which the narrow soul of the libertine cannot
take in, nor his thoughts conceive! And which I myself, whilst a libertine, had not the least
notion of!

But, said he, I expected my dear spouse, my Pamela, had something to ask for herself. But since
all her own good is absorbed in the delight her generous heart takes in promoting that of others,
it shall be my study to prevent her wishes, and to make her care for herself unnecessary, by
my anticipating kindness.

In this manner, my dear parents, is your happy daughter blessed in a husband! O how my exulting
heart leaps at the dear, dear word!--And I have nothing to do, but to be humble, and to look
up with gratitude to the all-gracious dispenser of these blessings.

So, with a thousand thanks, I afterwards retired to my closet, to write you thus far. And having
completed what I purpose for this packet, and put up the kind obliging present, I have nothing
more to say, but that I hope soon to see you both, and receive your blessings on this happy,
thrice happy occasion. And so, hoping for your prayers, that I may preserve an humble and upright
mind to my gracious God, a dutiful gratitude to my dear master and husband--that I may long
rejoice in the continuance of these blessings and favours, and that I may preserve, at the
same time, an obliging deportment to every one else, I conclude myself, Your ever-dutiful and
most happy daughter,

                                                        PAMELA B----

O think it not my pride, my dear parents, that sets me on glorying in my change of name! Yours
will be always dear to me, and what I shall never be ashamed of, I'm sure: But yet--for such
a husband!--What shall I say, since words are too faint to express my gratitude and my joy!

I have taken copies of my master's letter to Mr. Longman, and mine to Mrs. Jervis, which I
will send with the further occurrences, when I go to the other dear house, or give you when
I see you, as I now hope soon to do.

Saturday morning, the third of my happy nuptials.

I must still write on, till I come to be settled in the duty of the station to which I am so
generously exalted, and to let you participate with me the transporting pleasures that rise
from my new condition, and the favours that are hourly heaped upon me by the best of husbands.
When I had got my packet for you finished, I then set about writing, as he had kindly directed
me, to Mrs. Jervis; and had no difficulty till I came to sign my name; and so I brought it
down with me, when I was called to supper, unsigned.

My good master (for I delight, and always shall, to call him by that name) had been writing
to Mr. Longman; and he said, pleasantly, See, here, my dearest, what I have written to your
Somebody. I read as follows:

'Mr. LONGMAN,

'I have the pleasure to acquaint you, that last Thursday I was married to my beloved Pamela.
I have had reason to be disobliged with you, and Mrs. Jervis and Jonathan, not for your kindness
to, and regard for, my dear spouse, that now is, but for the manner, in which you appealed
to my sister Davers; which has made a very wide breach between her and me. But as it was one
of her first requests, that I would overlook what had passed, and reinstate you in all your
former charges, I think myself obliged, without the least hesitation, to comply with it. So,
if you please, you may enter again upon an office which you have always executed with unquestionable
integrity, and to the satisfaction of 'Yours etc.'

'Friday afternoon.'

'I shall set out next Tuesday or Wednesday for Bedfordshire; and desire to find Jonathan, as
well as you, in your former offices; in which, I dare say, you'll have the more pleasure, as
you have such an early instance of the sentiments of my dear wife, from whose goodness you
may expect every agreeable thing. She writes herself to Mrs. Jervis.'

I thanked him most gratefully for his goodness; and afterwards took the above copy of it; and
shewed him my letter to Mrs. Jervis, as follows:

'My DEAR MRS. JERVIS,

'I have joyful tidings to communicate to you. For yesterday I was happily married to the best
of gentlemen, yours and my beloved master. I have only now to tell you, that I am inexpressibly
happy: that my generous benefactor denies me nothing, and even anticipates my wishes. You may
be sure I could not forget my dear Mrs. Jervis; and I made it my request, and had it granted,
as soon as asked, that you might return to the kind charge, which you executed with so much
advantage to our master's interest, and so much pleasure to all under your direction. All the
power that is put into my hands, by the most generous of men, shall be exerted to make every
thing easy and agreeable to you: And as I shall soon have the honour of attending my beloved
to Bedfordshire, it will be a very considerable addition to my delight, and to my unspeakable
obligations to the best of men, to see my dear Mrs. Jervis, and to be received by her with
that pleasure, which I promise myself from her affection. For I am, my dear good friend, and
always will be,

                   'Yours, very affectionately, and gratefully,
                                                        PAMELA ----.'

He read this letter, and said, 'Tis yours, my dear, and must be good: But don't you put your
name to it? Sir, said I, your goodness has given me a right to a very honourable one but as
this is the first occasion of the kind, except that to my dear father and mother, I think I
ought to shew it you unsigned, that I may not seem over-forward to take advantage of the honour
you have done me.

However sweetly humble and requisite, said he, this may appear to my dear Pamela's niceness,
it befits me to tell you, that I am every moment more and more pleased with the right you have
to my name: and, my dear life, added he, I have only to wish I may be half as worthy as you
are of the happy knot so lately knit. He then took a pen himself, and wrote, after Pamela,
his most worthy sirname; and I under-wrote thus: 'O rejoice with me, my dear Mrs. Jervis, that
I am enabled, by God's graciousness, and my dear master's goodness, thus to write myself!'

These letters, and the packet to you, were sent away by Mr. Thomas early this morning.

My dearest master is just gone to take a ride out, and intends to call upon Lady Jones, Mr.
Peters, and Sir Simon Darnford, to invite them to chapel and dinner to-morrow; and says, he
chooses to do it himself, because the time is so short, they will, perhaps, deny a servant.

I forgot to mention, that Mr. Williams was here yesterday, to ask leave to go to see his new
living, and to provide for taking possession of it; and seemed so pleased with my master's
kindness and fondness for me, as well as his generous deportment to himself, that he left us
in such a disposition, as shewed he was quite happy. I am very glad of it; for it would rejoice
me to be an humble means of making all mankind so: And oh! what returns ought I not to make
to the divine goodness! and how ought I to strive to diffuse the blessings I experience, to
all in my knowledge!--For else, what is it for such a worm as I to be exalted! What is my single
happiness, if I suffer it, niggard-like, to extend no farther than to myself?--But then, indeed,
do God Almighty's creatures act worthy of the blessings they receive, when they make, or endeavour
to make, the whole creation, so far as is in the circle of their power, happy!

Great and good God! as thou hast enlarged my opportunities, enlarge also my will, and make
me delight in dispensing to others a portion of that happiness, which I have myself so plentifully
received at the hand of thy gracious Providence! Then shall I not be useless in my generation!--Then
shall I not stand a single mark of thy goodness to a poor worthless creature, that in herself
is of so small account in the scale of beings, a mere cipher on the wrong side of a figure;
but shall be placed on the right side; and, though nothing worth in myself, shall give signification
by my place, and multiply the blessings I owe to thy goodness, which has distinguished me by
so fair a lot!

This, as I conceive, is the indispensable duty of a high condition; and how great must be the
condemnation of poor creatures, at the great day of account, when they shall be asked, What
uses they have made of the opportunities put into their hands? and are able only to say, We
have lived but to ourselves: We have circumscribed all the power thou hast given us into one
narrow, selfish, compass: We have heaped up treasures for those who came after us, though we
knew not whether they would not make a still worse use of them than we ourselves did! And how
can such poor selfish pleaders expect any other sentence, than the dreadful, Depart, ye cursed!

But sure, my dear father and mother, such persons can have no notion of the exalted pleasures
that flow from doing good, were there to be no after-account at all!

There is something so satisfactory and pleasing to reflect on the being able to administer
comfort and relief to those who stand in need of it, as infinitely, of itself, rewards the
beneficent mind. And how often have I experienced this in my good lady's time, though but the
second-hand dispenser of her benefits to the poor and sickly, when she made me her almoner!--How
have I been affected with the blessings which the miserable have heaped upon her for her goodness,
and upon me for being but the humble conveyer of her bounty to them!--And how delighted have
I been, when the moving report I have made of a particular distress, has augmented my good
lady's first intentions in relief of it!

This I recall with pleasure, because it is now, by the divine goodness, become my part to do
those good things she was wont to do: And oh! let me watch myself, that my prosperous state
do not make me forget to look up, with due thankfulness, to the Providence which has entrusted
me with the power, that so I may not incur a terrible woe by the abuse or neglect of it!

Forgive me these reflections, my dear parents; and let me have your prayers, that I may not
find my present happiness a snare to me; but that I may consider, that more and more will be
expected from me, in proportion to the power given me; and that I may not so unworthily act,
as if I believed I ought to set up my rest in my mean self, and think nothing further to be
done, with the opportunities put into my hand, by the divine favour, and the best of men!

Saturday, seven o'clock in the evening.

My master returned home to dinner, in compliment to me, though much pressed to dine with Lady
Jones, as he was, also, by Sir Simon, to dine with him. But Mr. Peters could not conveniently
provide a preacher for his own church tomorrow morning, at so short a notice; Mr. Williams
being gone, as I said, to his new living; but believed he could for the afternoon; and so he
promised to give us his company to dinner, and to read afternoon service: and this made my
master invite all the rest, as well as him, to dinner, and not to church; and he made them
promise to come; and told Mr. Peters, he would send his coach for him and his family.

Miss Darnford told him pleasantly, She would not come, unless he would promise to let her be
at his wedding; by which I find Mr. Peters has kept the secret, as my master desired.

He was pleased to give me an airing after dinner in the chariot, and renewed his kind assurances
to me, and, if possible, is kinder than ever. This is sweetly comfortable to me, because it
shews me he does not repent of his condescensions to me; and it encourages me to look up to
him with more satisfaction of mind, and less doubtfulness.

I begged leave to send a guinea to a poor body in the town, that I heard, by Mrs. Jewkes, lay
very ill, and was very destitute. He said, Send two, my dear, if you please. Said I, Sir, I
will never do any thing of this kind without letting you know what I do. He most generously
answered, I shall then, perhaps, have you do less good than you would otherwise do, from a
doubt of me; though, I hope, your discretion, and my own temper, which is not avaricious, will
make such doubt causeless.

Now, my dear, continued he, I'll tell you how we will order this point, to avoid even the shadow
of uneasiness on one side, or doubt on the other.

As to your father and mother, in the first place, they shall be quite out of the question;
for I have already determined in my mind about them; and it is thus: They shall go down, if
they and you think well of it, to my little Kentish estate; which I once mentioned to you in
such a manner, as made you reject it with a nobleness of mind, that gave me pain then, but
pleasure since. There is a pretty little farm, and house, untenanted, upon that estate, and
tolerably well stocked, and I will further stock it for them; for such industrious folks won't
know how to live without some employment; And it shall be theirs for both their lives, without
paying any rent; and I will allow them 50l. per annum besides, that they may keep up the stock,
and be kind to any other of their relations, without being beholden to you or me for small
matters; and for greater, where needful, you shall always have it in your power to accommodate
them; for I shall never question your prudence. And we will, so long as God spares our lives,
go down, once a year, to see them; and they shall come up, as often as they please, it cannot
be too often, to see us: for I mean not this, my dear, to send them from us.--Before I proceed,
does my Pamela like this?

O, sir, said I, the English tongue affords not words, or, at least, I have them not, to express
sufficiently my gratitude! Teach me, dear sir, continued I, and pressed his dear hand to my
lips, teach me some other language, if there be any, that abounds with more grateful terms;
that I may not thus be choked with meanings, for which I can find no utterance.

My charmer! says he, your language is all wonderful, as your sentiments; and you most abound,
when you seem most to want!--All that I wish, is to find my proposals agreeable to you; and
if my first are not, my second shall be, if I can but know what you wish.

Did I say too much, my dearest parents, when I said, He was, if possible, kinder and kinder?--O
the blessed man! how my heart is overwhelmed with his goodness!

Well, said he, my dearest, let me desire you to mention this to them, to see if they approve
it. But, if it be your choice, and theirs, to have them nearer to you, or even under the same
roof with you, I will freely consent to it.

O no, sir, said I, (and I fear almost sinned in my grateful flight,) I am sure they would not
choose that; they could not, perhaps, serve God so well if they were to live with you: For,
so constantly seeing the hand that blesses them, they would, it may be, as must be my care
to avoid, be tempted to look no further in their gratitude, than to the dear dispenser of such
innumerable benefits.

Excellent creature! said he: My beloved wants no language, nor sentiments neither; and her
charming thoughts, so sweetly expressed, would grace any language; and this is a blessing almost
peculiar to my fairest.--Your so kind acceptance, my Pamela, added he, repays the benefit with
interest, and leaves me under obligation to your goodness.

But now, my dearest, I will tell you what we will do, with regard to points of your own private
charity; for far be it from me, to put under that name the subject we have been mentioning;
because that, and more than that, is duty to persons so worthy, and so nearly related to my
Pamela, and, as such, to myself.--O how the sweet man outdoes me, in thoughts, words, power,
and every thing!

And this, said he, lies in very small compass; for I will allow you two hundred pounds a year,
which Longman shall constantly pay you, at fifty pounds a quarter, for your own use, and of
which I expect no account; to commence from the day you enter into my other house: I mean,
said he, that the first fifty pounds shall then be due; because you shall have something to
begin with. And, added the dear generous man, if this be pleasing to you, let it, since you
say you want words, be signified by such a sweet kiss as you gave me yesterday. I hesitated
not a moment to comply with these obliging terms, and threw my arms about his dear neck, though
in the chariot, and blessed his goodness to me. But, indeed, sir, said I, I cannot bear this
generous treatment! He was pleased to say, Don't be uneasy, my dear, about these trifles: God
has blessed me with a very good estate, and all of it in a prosperous condition, and generally
well tenanted. I lay up money every year, and have, besides, large sums in government and other
securities; so that you will find, what I have hitherto promised, is very short of that proportion
of my substance, which, as my dearest wife, you have a right to.

In this sweet manner did we pass our time till evening, when the chariot brought us home; and
then our supper succeeded in the same agreeable manner. And thus, in a rapturous circle, the
time moves on; every hour bringing with it something more delightful than the past!--Sure nobody
was ever so blest as I!

Sunday, the fourth day of my happiness.

Not going to chapel this morning, the reason of which I told you, I bestowed the time, from
the hour of my beloved's rising, to breakfast, in prayer and thanksgiving, in my closet; and
now I begin to be quite easy, cheerful, and free in my spirits; and the rather, as I find myself
encouraged by the tranquillity, and pleasing vivacity, in the temper and behaviour of my beloved,
who thereby shews he does not repent of his goodness to me.

I attended him to breakfast with great pleasure and freedom, and he seemed quite pleased with
me, and said, Now does my dearest begin to look upon me with an air of serenity and satisfaction:
it shall be always, added he, my delight to give you occasion for this sweet becoming aspect
of confidence and pleasure in me.--My heart, dear sir, said I, is quite easy, and has lost
all its foolish tumults, which, combating with my gratitude, might give an unacceptable appearance
to my behaviour: but now your goodness, sir, has enabled it to get the better of its uneasy
apprehensions, and my heart is all of one piece, and devoted to you, and grateful tranquillity.
And could I be so happy as to see you and my good Lady Davers reconciled, I have nothing in
this world to wish for more, but the continuance of your favour. He said, I wish this reconciliation,
my dearest, as well as you: and I do assure you, more for your sake than my own; and if she
would behave tolerably, I would make the terms easier to her, for that reason.

He said, I will lay down one rule for you, my Pamela, to observe in your dress; and I will
tell you every thing I like or dislike, as it occurs to me: and I would have you do the same,
on your part; that nothing may be upon either of our minds that may occasion the least reservedness.

I have often observed, in married folks, that, in a little while, the lady grows careless in
her dress; which, to me, looks as if she would take no pains to secure the affection she had
gained; and shews a slight to her husband, that she had not to her lover. Now, you must know,
this has always given me great offence; and I should not forgive it, even in my Pamela: though
she would have this excuse for herself, that thousands could not make, That she looks lovely
in every thing. So, my dear, I shall expect of you always to be dressed by dinner-time, except
something extraordinary happens; and this, whether you are to go abroad, or stay at home. For
this, my love, will continue to you that sweet ease in your dress and behaviour, which you
are so happy a mistress of; and whomsoever I bring home with me to my table, you'll be in readiness
to receive them; and will not want to make those foolish apologies to unexpected visitors,
that carry with them a reflection on the conduct of those who make them; and, besides, will
convince me, that you think yourself obliged to appear as graceful to your husband, as you
would to persons less familiar to your sight.

This, dear sir, said I, is a most obliging injunction; and I most heartily thank you for it,
and will always take care to obey it.--Why, my dear, said he, you may better do this than half
your sex; because they too generally act in such a manner, as if they seemed to think it the
privilege of birth and fortune, to turn day into night, and night into day, and are seldom
stirring till it is time to sit down to dinner; and so all the good old family rules are reversed:
For they breakfast, when they should dine; dine, when they should sup; and sup, when they should
go to bed; and, by the help of dear quadrille, sometimes go to bed when they should rise.--In
all things but these, my dear, continued he, I expect you to be a lady. And my good mother
was one of this oldfashioned cut, and, in all other respects, as worthy a lady as any in the
kingdom. And so you have not been used to the new way, and may the easier practise the other.

Dear sir, said I, pray give me more of your sweet injunctions. Why then, continued he, I shall,
in the usual course, and generally, if not hindered by company, like to go to bed with my dearest
by eleven; and, if I don't, shan't hinder you. I ordinarily now rise by six in summer. I will
allow you to be half an hour after me, or so.

Then you'll have some time you may call your own, till you give me your company to breakfast;
which may be always so, as that we may have done at a little after nine.

Then will you have several hours again at your disposal, till two o'clock, when I shall like
to sit down at table.

You will then have several useful hours more to employ yourself in, as you shall best like;
and I would generally go to supper by eight; and when we are resolved to stick to these oldfashioned
rules, as near as we can, we shall have our visitors conform to them too, and expect them from
us, and suit themselves accordingly: For I have always observed, that it is in every one's
power to prescribe rules to himself. It is only standing a few ridiculous jests at first, and
that too from such, generally, as are not the most worthy to be minded; and, after a while,
they will say, It signifies nothing to ask him: he will have his own way. There is no putting
him out of his bias. He is a regular piece of clock-work, they will joke, and all that: And
why, my dear, should we not be so? For man is as frail a piece of machinery as any clock-work
whatever; and, by irregularity, is as subject to be disordered.

Then, my dear, continued the charming man, when they see they are received, at my own times,
with an open countenance and cheerful heart; when they see plenty and variety at my board,
and meet a kind and hearty welcome from us both; they will not offer to break in upon my conditions,
nor grudge me my regular hours: And as most of these people have nothing to do, except to rise
in a morning, they may as well come to breakfast with us at half an hour after eight, in summer,
as at ten or eleven; to dinner at two, as at four, five, or six; and to supper at eight, as
at ten or eleven. And then our servants, too, will know, generally, the times of their business,
and the hours of their leisure or recess; and we, as well as they, shall reap the benefits
of this regularity. And who knows, my dear, but we may revive the good oldfashion in our neighbourhood,
by this means?--At least it will be doing our parts towards it; and answering the good lesson
I learned at school, Every one mend one. And the worst that will happen will be, that when
some of my brother rakes, such as those who broke in upon us, so unwelcomely, last Thursday,
are got out of the way, if that can ever be, and begin to consider who they shall go to dine
with in their rambles, they will only say, We must not go to him, for his dinner-time is over;
and so they'll reserve me for another time, when they happen to suit it better; or, perhaps,
they will take a supper and a bed with me instead of it.

Now, my dearest, continued the kind man, you see here are more of my injunctions, as you call
them; and though I will not be so set, as to quarrel, if they are not always exactly complied
with; yet, as I know you won't think them unreasonable, I shall be glad they may, as often
as they can; and you will give your orders accordingly to your Mrs. Jervis, who is a good woman,
and will take pleasure in obeying you.

O dearest, dear sir, said I, have you nothing more to honour me with? You oblige and improve
me at the same time.--What a happy lot is mine!

Why, let me see, my dearest, said he--But I think of no more at present: For it would be needless
to say how much I value you for your natural sweetness of temper, and that open cheerfulness
of countenance, which adorns you, when nothing has given my fairest apprehensions for her virtue:
A sweetness, and a cheerfulness, that prepossesses in your favour, at first sight, the mind
of every one that beholds you.--I need not, I hope, say, that I would have you diligently preserve
this sweet appearance: Let no thwarting accident, no cross fortune, (for we must not expect
to be exempt from such, happy as we now are in each other!) deprive this sweet face of this
its principal grace: And when any thing unpleasing happens, in a quarter of an hour, at farthest,
begin to mistrust yourself, and apply to your glass; and if you see a gloom arising, or arisen,
banish it instantly; smooth your dear countenance; resume your former composure; and then,
my dearest, whose heart must always be seen in her face, and cannot be a hypocrite, will find
this a means to smooth her passions also: And if the occasion be too strong for so sudden a
conquest, she will know how to do it more effectually, by repairing to her closet, and begging
that gracious assistance, which has never yet failed her: And so shall I, my dear, who, as
you once but too justly observed, have been too much indulged by my good mother, have an example
from you, as well as a pleasure in you, which will never be palled.

One thing, continued he, I have frequently observed at the house of many a gentleman, That
when we have unexpectedly visited, or broken in upon the family order laid down by the lady;
and especially if any of us have lain under the suspicion of having occasionally seduced our
married companion into bad hours, or given indifferent examples, the poor gentleman has been
oddly affected at our coming; though the good breeding of the lady has made her just keep up
appearances. He has looked so conscious; has been so afraid, as it were, to disoblige; has
made so many excuses for some of us, before we had been accused, as have always shewn me how
unwelcome we have been; and how much he is obliged to compound with his lady for a tolerable
reception of us; and, perhaps, she too, in proportion to the honest man's concern to court
her smiles, has been more reserved, stiff, and formal; and has behaved with an indifference
and slight that has often made me wish myself out of her house; for too plainly have I seen
that it was not his.

This, my dear, you will judge, by my description, has afforded me subject for animadversion
upon the married life; for a man may not (though, in the main, he is willing to flatter himself
that he is master of his house, and will assert his prerogative upon great occasions, when
it is strongly invaded) be always willing to contend; and such women as those I have described,
are always ready to take the field, and are worse enemies than the old Parthians, who annoy
most when they seem to retreat; and never fail to return to the charge again, and carry on
the offensive war, till they have tired out resistance, and made the husband willing, like
a vanquished enemy, to compound for small matters, in order to preserve something. At least
the poor man does not care to let his friends see his case; and so will not provoke a fire
to break out, that he sees (and so do his friends too) the meek lady has much ado to smother;
and which, very possibly, burns with a most comfortable ardour, after we are gone.

You smile, my Pamela, said he, at this whimsical picture; and, I am sure, I never shall have
reason to include you in these disagreeable outlines; but yet I will say, that I expect from
you, whoever comes to my house, that you accustom yourself to one even, uniform complaisance:
That no frown take place on your brow: That however ill or well provided we may be for their
reception, you shew no flutter or discomposure: That whoever you may have in your company at
the time, you signify not, by the least reserved look, that the stranger is come upon you unseasonably,
or at a time you wished he had not. But be facetious, kind, obliging to all; and, if to one
more than another, to such as have the least reason to expect it from you, or who are most
inferior at the table; for thus will you, my Pamela, cheer the doubting mind, quiet the uneasy
heart, and diffuse ease, pleasure, and tranquillity, around my board.

And be sure, my dear, continued he, let no little accidents ruffle your temper. I shall never
forget once that I was at Lady Arthur's; and a footman happened to stumble, and let fall a
fine china dish, and broke it all to pieces: It was grievous to see the uneasiness it gave
the poor lady: And she was so sincere in it, that she suffered it to spread all over the company;
and it was a pretty large one too; and not a person in it but turned either her consoler, or
fell into stories of the like misfortunes; and so we all became, for the rest of the evening,
nothing but blundering footmen, and careless servants, or were turned into broken jars, plates,
glasses, tea-cups, and such like brittle substances. And it affected me so much, that, when
I came home, I went to bed, and dreamt, that Robin, with the handle of his whip, broke the
fore glass of my chariot; and I was so solicitous, methought, to keep the good lady in countenance
for her anger, that I broke his head in revenge, and stabbed one of my coach-horses. And all
the comfort I had when it was done, methought, was, that I had not exposed myself before company;
and there were no sufferers, but guilty Robin, and one innocent coach-horse.

I was exceedingly diverted with the facetious hints, and the pleasant manner in which he gave
them; and I promised to improve by the excellent lessons contained in them.

I then went up and dressed myself, as like a bride as I could, in my best clothes; and, on
inquiry, hearing my dearest master was gone to walk in the garden, I went to find him out.
He was reading in the little alcove; and I said, Sir, am I licensed to intrude upon you?--No,
my dear, said he, because you cannot intrude. I am so wholly yours, that, wherever I am, you
have not only a right to join me, but you do me a very acceptable favour at the same time.

I have, sir, said I, obeyed your first kind injunction, as to dressing myself before dinner;
but may be you are busy, sir. He put up the papers he was reading, and said, I can have no
business or pleasure of equal value to your company, my dear. What were you going to say?--Only,
sir, to know if you have any more kind injunctions to give me?--I could hear you talk a whole
day together.--You are very obliging, Pamela, said he; but you are so perfectly what I wish,
that I might have spared those I gave you; but I was willing you should have a taste of my
freedom with you, to put you upon the like with me: For I am confident there can be no friendship
lasting, without freedom, and without communicating to one another even the little caprices,
if my Pamela can have any such, which may occasion uneasiness to either.

Now, my dear, said he, be so kind as to find some fault with me, and tell me what you would
wish me to do, to appear more agreeable to you. O sir, said I, and I could have kissed him,
but for shame, (To be sure I shall grow a sad fond hussy,) I have not one single thing to wish
for; no, not one!--He saluted me very kindly, and said, He should be sorry if I had, and forbore
to speak it. Do you think, my dear sir, said I, that your Pamela has no conscience? Do you
think, that because you so kindly oblige her, and delight in obliging her, that she must rack
her invention for trials of your goodness, and knows not when she's happy?--O my dearest sir,
added I, less than one half of the favours you have so generously conferred upon me, would
have exceeded my utmost wishes!

My dear angel, said he, and kissed me again, I shall be troublesome to you with my kisses,
if you continue thus sweetly obliging in your actions and expressions. O sir, said I, I have
been thinking, as I was dressing myself, what excellent lessons you teach me!

When you commanded me, at your table to cheer the doubting mind and comfort the uneasy heart,
and to behave most kindly to those who have least reason to expect it, and are most inferior;
how sweetly, in every instance that could possibly occur, have you done this yourself by your
poor, unworthy Pamela, till you have diffused, in your own dear words, ease, pleasure, and
tranquillity, around my glad heart!

Then again, sir, when you bid me not be disturbed by little accidents, or by strangers coming
in upon me unexpectedly, how noble an instance did you give me of this, when, on our happy
wedding-day, the coming of Sir Charles Hargrave, and the other two gentlemen, (for which you
were quite unprovided, and which hindered our happiness of dining together on that chosen day,)
did not so disturb you, but that you entertained the gentlemen pleasantly, and parted with
them civilly and kindly! What charming instances are these, I have been recollecting with pleasure,
of your pursuing the doctrine you deliver.

My dear, said he, these observations are very kind in you, and much to my advantage: But if
I do not always (for I fear these were too much accidents) so well pursue the doctrines I lay
down, my Pamela must not expect that my imperfections will be a plea for her nonobservance
of my lessons, as you call them; for, I doubt I shall never be half so perfect as you; and
so I cannot permit you to recede in your goodness, though I may find myself unable to advance
as I ought in my duty.

I hope, sir, said I, by God's grace, I never shall. I believe it, said he; but I only mention
this, knowing my own defects, lest my future lessons should not be so well warranted by my
practice, as in the instances you have kindly recollected.

He was pleased to take notice of my dress; and spanning my waist with his hands, said, What
a sweet shape is here! It would make one regret to lose it; and yet, my beloved Pamela, I shall
think nothing but that loss wanting, to complete my happiness.--I put my bold hand before his
mouth, and said, Hush, hush! O fie, sir!--The freest thing you have ever yet said, since I
have been yours!--He kissed my hand, and said, Such an innocent wish, my dearest, may be permitted
me, because it is the end of the institution.--But say, Would such a case be unwelcome to my
Pamela?--I will say, sir, said I, and hid my blushing face on his bosom, that your wishes,
in every thing, shall be mine; but, pray, sir, say no more. He kindly saluted me, and thanked
me, and changed the subject.--I was not too free, I hope.

Thus we talked, till we heard the coaches; and then he said, Stay here, in the garden, my dear,
and I'll bring the company to you. And when he was gone, I passed by the back-door, kneeled
down against it, and blessed God for not permitting my then so much desired escape. I went
to the pond, and kneeled down on the mossy bank, and again blessed God there, for his mercy
in my escape from myself, my then worst enemy, though I thought I had none but enemies, and
no friend near me. And so I ought to do in almost every step of this garden, and every room
in this house!--And I was bending my steps to the dear little chapel, to make my acknowledgment
there; but I saw the company coming towards me.

Miss Darnford said, So, Miss Andrews, how do you do now? O, you look so easy, so sweetly, so
pleased, that I know you'll let me dance at your wedding, for I shall long to be there! Lady
Jones was pleased to say I looked like an angel: And Mrs. Peters said, I improved upon them
every time they saw me. Lady Darnford was also pleased to make me a fine compliment, and said,
I looked freer and easier every time she saw me. Dear heart! I wish, thought I, you would spare
these compliments; for I shall have some joke, I doubt, passed on me by-and-by, that will make
me suffer for all these fine things.

Mr. Peters said, softly, God bless you, dear daughter!--But not so much as my wife knows it.--Sir
Simon came in last, and took me by the hand, and said, Mr. B----, by your leave; and kissed
my hand five or six times, as if he was mad; and held it with both his, and made a very free
jest, by way of compliment, in his way. Well, I think a young rake is hardly tolerable; but
an old rake, and an old beau, are two very sad things!--And all this before daughters, women-grown!--I
whispered my dearest, a little after, and said, I fear I shall suffer much from Sir Simon's
rude jokes, by-and-by, when you reveal the matter.--'Tis his way, my dear, said he; you must
now grow above these things.--Miss Nanny Darnford said to me, with a sort of half grave, ironical
air,--Well, Miss Andrews, if I may judge by your easy deportment now, to what it was when I
saw you last, I hope you will let my sister, if you won't me, see the happy knot tied! For
she is quite wild about it.--I courtesied, and only said, You are all very good to me, ladies.--Mr.
Peters's niece said, Well, Miss Andrews, I hope, before we part, we shall be told the happy
day. My good master heard her, and said, You shall, you shall, madam.--That's pure, said Miss
Darnford.

He took me aside, and said softly, Shall I lead them to the alcove, and tell them there, or
stay till we go in to dinner?--Neither, sir, I think, said I, I fear I shan't stand it.--Nay,
said he, they must know it; I would not have invited them else.--Why then, sir, said I, let
it alone till they are going away.--Then, replied he, you must pull off your ring. No, no,
sir, said I, that I must not.--Well, said he, do you tell Miss Darnford of it yourself.--Indeed,
sir, answered I, I cannot.

Mrs. Jewkes came officiously to ask my master, just then, if she should bring a glass of rhenish
and sugar before dinner, for the gentlemen and ladies: And he said, That's well thought of;
bring it, Mrs. Jewkes.

And she came, with Nan attending her, with two bottles and glasses, and a salver; and must
needs, making a low courtesy, offered first to me; saying, Will your ladyship begin? I coloured
like scarlet, and said, No;--my master, to be sure!

But they all took the hint; and Miss Darnford said, I'll be hanged if they have not stolen
a wedding! said Mrs. Peters, It must certainly be so! Ah! Mr. Peters.

I'll assure you, said he, I have not married them. Where were you, said she, and Mr. Williams,
last Thursday morning? said Sir Simon, Let me alone, let me alone; if any thing has been stolen,
I'll find it out! I'm a justice of the peace, you know. And so he took me by the hand, and
said, Come, madam, answer me, by the oath you have taken: Are you married or not?

My master smiled, to see me look so like a fool; and I said, Pray, Sir Simon!--Ay, ay, said
he; I thought you did not look so smirking upon us for nothing.--Well, then, Pamela, said my
master, since your blushes discover you, don't be ashamed, but confess the truth!

Now, said Miss Darnford, I am quite angry; and, said Lady Darnford, I am quite pleased; let
me give you joy, dear madam, if it be so. And so they all said, and saluted me all round.--I
was vexed it was before Mrs. Jewkes; for she shook her fat sides, and seemed highly pleased
to be a means of discovering it.

Nobody, said my master, wishes me joy. No, said Lady Jones, very obligingly, nobody need; for,
with such a peerless spouse, you want no good wishes:--And he saluted them; and when he came
last to me, said, before them all, Now, my sweet bride, my Pamela, let me conclude with you;
for here I began to love, and here I desire to end loving, but not till my life ends.

This was sweetly said, and taken great notice of; and it was doing credit to his own generous
choice, and vastly more than I merited.

But I was forced to stand many more jokes afterwards: For Sir Simon said, several times, Come,
come, madam, now you are become one of us, I shall be a little less scrupulous than I have
been, I'll assure you.

When we came in to dinner, I made no difficulty of what all offered me, the upper end of the
table; and performed the honours of it with pretty tolerable presence of mind, considering.
And, with much ado, my good benefactor promising to be down again before winter, we got off
the ball; but appointed Tuesday evening, at Lady Darnford's, to take leave of all this good
company, who promised to be there, my master designing to set out on Wednesday morning for
Bedfordshire.

We had prayers in the little chapel, in the afternoon; but they all wished for the good clerk
again, with great encomiums upon you, my dear father; and the company staid supper also, and
departed exceeding well satisfied, and with abundance of wishes for the continuance of our
mutual happiness; and my master desired Mr. Peters to answer for him to the ringers at the
town, if they should hear of it; till our return into this country; and that then he would
be bountiful to them, because he would not publicly declare it till he had first done so in
Bedfordshire.

Monday, the fifth day.

I have had very little of my dear friend's company this day; for he only staid breakfast with
me, and rode out to see a sick gentleman about eighteen miles off, who begged (by a man and
horse on purpose) to speak with him, believing he should not recover, and upon part of whose
estate my master has a mortgage. He said, My dearest, I shall be very uneasy, if I am obliged
to tarry all night from you; but, lest you should be alarmed, if I don't come home by ten,
don't expect me: For poor Mr. Carlton and I have pretty large concerns together; and if he
should be very ill, and would be comforted by my presence, (as I know he loves me, and his
family will be more in my power, if he dies, than I wish for,) charity will not let me refuse.

It is now ten o'clock at night, and I fear he will not return. I fear, for the sake of his
poor sick friend, who, I doubt, is worse. Though I know not the gentleman, I am sorry for his
own sake, for his family's sake, and for my dear master's sake, who, by his kind expressions,
I find, loves him: And, methinks, I should be sorry any grief should touch his generous heart;
though yet there is no living in this world, without too many occasions for concern, even in
the most prosperous state. And it is fit it should be so; or else, poor wretches, as we are!
we should look no farther, but be like sensual travellers on a journey homeward, who, meeting
with good entertainment at some inn on the way, put up their rest there, and never think of
pursuing their journey to their proper home.--This, I remember, was often a reflection of my
good lady's, to whom I owe it.

Eleven o'clock.

Mrs. Jewkes has been with me, and asked if I will have her for a bed-fellow, in want of a better?
I thanked her; but I said, I would see how it was to be by myself one night.

I might have mentioned, that I made Mrs. Jewkes dine and sup with me; and she was much pleased
with it, and my behaviour to her. And I could see, by her manner, that she was a little struck
inwardly at some of her former conduct to me. But, poor wretch! it is much, I fear, because
I am what I am; for she has otherwise very little remorse, I doubt. Her talk and actions are
entirely different from what they used to be, quite circumspect and decent; and I should have
thought her virtuous, and even pious, had I never known her in another light.

By this we may see, my dear father and mother, of what force example is, and what is in the
power of the heads of families to do: And this shews, that evil examples, in superiors, are
doubly pernicious, and doubly culpable, because such persons are bad themselves, and not only
do no good, but much harm to others; and the condemnation of such must, to be sure, be so much
the greater!--And how much the greater still must my condemnation be, who have had such a religious
education under you, and been so well nurtured by my good lady, if I should forget, with all
these mercies heaped upon me, what belongs to the station I am preferred to!--O how I long
to be doing some good! For all that is past yet, is my dear, dear master's, God bless him!
and return him safe to my wishes! for methinks, already, 'tis a week since I saw him. If my
love would not be troublesome and impertinent, I should be nothing else; for I have a true
grateful spirit; and I had need to have such a one, for I am poor in every thing but will.

Tuesday morning, eleven o'clock.

My dear, dear--master (I'm sure I should still say; but I will learn to rise to a softer epithet,
now-and-then) is not yet come. I hope he is safe and well!--So Mrs. Jewkes and I went to breakfast.
But I can do nothing but talk and think of him, and all his kindness to me, and to you, which
is still me, more intimately!--I have just received a letter from him, which he wrote overnight,
as I find by it, and sent early this morning. This is a copy of it.

TO MRS. ANDREWS

'MY DEAREST PAMELA, Monday night.

'I hope my not coming home this night will not frighten you. You may believe I can't help it.
My poor friend is so very ill, that I doubt he can't recover. His desires to have me stay with
him are so strong, that I shall sit up all night with him, as it is now near one o'clock in
the morning; for he can't bear me out of his sight: And I have made him and his distressed
wife and children so easy, in the kindest assurances I could give him of my consideration for
him and them, that I am looked upon (as the poor disconsolate widow, as she, I doubt, will
soon be, tells me,) as their good angel. I could have wished we had not engaged to the good
neighbourhood at Sir Simon's for to-morrow night; but I am so desirous to set out on Wednesday
for the other house, that, as well as in return for the civilities of so many good friends,
who will be there on purpose, I would not put it off. What I beg of you, therefore, my dear,
is, that you would go in the chariot to Sir Simon's, the sooner in the day the better, because
you will be diverted with the company, who all so much admire you; and I hope to join you there
by your tea-time in the afternoon, which will be better than going home, and returning with
you, as it will be six miles difference to me; and I know the good company will excuse my dress,
on the occasion. I count every hour of this little absence for a day: for I am, with the utmost
sincerity,

                                 'My dearest love, for ever yours, etc.'

'If you could go to dine with them, it will be a freedom that would be very pleasing to them;
and the more, as they don't expect it.'

I begin to have a little concern, lest his fatigue should be too great, and for the poor sick
gentleman and family; but told Mrs. Jewkes, that the least intimation of his choice should
be a command to me, and so I would go to dinner there; and ordered the chariot to be got ready
to carry me: when a messenger came up, just as I was dressed, to tell her she must come down
immediately. I see at the window, that visitors are come; for there is a chariot and six horses,
the company gone out of it, and three footmen on horseback; and I think the chariot has coronets.
Who can it be, I wonder?--But here I will stop, for I suppose I shall soon know.

Good sirs! how unlucky this is! What shall I do!--Here is Lady Davers come, her own self! and
my kind protector a great, great many miles off!--Mrs. Jewkes, out of breath, comes and tells
me this, and says, she is inquiring for my master and me. She asked her, it seemed, naughty
lady as she is, if I was whored yet! There's a word for a lady's mouth! Mrs. Jewkes says, she
knew not what to answer. And my lady said, She is not married, I hope? And said she, I said,
No: because you have not owned it yet publicly. My lady said, That was well enough. Said I,
I will run away, Mrs. Jewkes; and let the chariot go to the bottom of the elm-walk, and I will
steal out of the door unperceived: But she is inquiring for you, madam, replied she, and I
said you was within, but going out; and she said, she would see you presently, as soon as she
could have patience. What did she call me? said I. The creature, madam; I will see the creature,
said she, as soon as I can have patience. Ay, but, said I, the creature won't let her, if she
can help it.

Pray, Mrs. Jewkes, favour my escape, for this once; for I am sadly frighted.--Said she, I'll
bid the chariot go down, as you order, and wait till you come; and I'll step down and shut
the hall door, that you may pass unobserved; for she sits cooling herself in the parlour, over
against the staircase. That's a good Mrs. Jewkes! said I: But who has she with her? Her woman,
answered she, and her nephew; but he came on horseback, and is going into the stables; and
they have three footmen.--And I wish, said I, they were all three hundred miles off!--What
shall I do?--So I wrote thus far, and wait impatiently to hear the coast is clear.

Mrs. Jewkes tells me I must come down, or she will come up. What does she call me now? said
I. Wench, madam, Bid the wench come down to me. And her nephew and her woman are with her.

Said I, I can't go, and that's enough!--You might contrive it that I might get out, if you
would.--Indeed, madam, said she, I cannot; for I went to shut the door, and she bid me let
it stand open; and there she sits over against the staircase. Then, said I, I'll get out of
the window, I think!--(And fanned myself;) for I am sadly frightened. Laud, madam, said she,
I wonder you so much disturb yourself!--You're on the right side the hedge, I'm sure; and I
would not be so discomposed for any body. Ay, said I, but who can help constitution? I dare
say you would no more be so discomposed, that I can help it.--Said she, Indeed, madam, if it
was to me, I would put on an air as mistress of the house, as you are, and go and salute her
ladyship, and bid her welcome. Ay, ay, replied I, fine talking!--But how unlucky this is, your
good master is not at home!

What answer shall I give her, said she, to her desiring to see you?--Tell her, said I, I am
sick a-bed; I'm dying, and must not be disturbed; I'm gone out--or any thing.

But her woman came up to me just as I had uttered this, and said, How do you do, Mrs. Pamela?
My lady desires to speak to you. So I must go.--Sure she won't beat me!--Oh that my dear protector
was at home!

Well, now I will tell you all that happened in this frightful interview.--And very bad it was.

I went down, dressed as I was, and my gloves on, and my fan in my hand, to be just ready to
step into the chariot, when I could get away; and I thought all my trembling fits had been
over now; but I was mistaken; for I trembled sadly. Yet resolved to put on as good an air as
I could.

So I went to the parlour, and said, making a very low courtesy, Your servant, my good lady!
And your servant again, said she, my lady, for I think you are dressed out like one.

A charming girl, though! said her rakish nephew, and swore a great oath: Dear aunt, forgive
me, but I must kiss her; and was coming to me. And I said, Forbear, uncivil gentleman! I won't
be used freely. Jackey, said my lady, sit down, and don't touch the creature--She's proud enough
already. There's a great difference in her air, I'll assure you, since I saw her last.

Well, child, said she, sneeringly, how dost find thyself? Thou'rt mightily come on, of late!--I
hear strange reports about thee!--Thou'rt almost got into fool's paradise, I doubt!--And wilt
find thyself terribly mistaken in a little while, if thou thinkest my brother will disgrace
his family, to humour thy baby-face!

I see, said I, sadly vexed, (her woman and nephew smiling by,) your ladyship has no very important
commands for me; and I beg leave to withdraw. Beck, said she to her woman, shut the door, my
young lady and I must not have done so soon.

Where's your well-mannered deceiver gone, child?--says she.--Said I, When your ladyship is
pleased to speak intelligibly, I shall know how to answer.

Well, but my dear child, said she, in drollery, don't be too pert neither, I beseech thee.
Thou wilt not find thy master's sister half so ready to take thy freedoms, as thy mannerly
master is!--So, a little of that modesty and humility that my mother's waiting-maid used to
shew, will become thee better than the airs thou givest thyself, since my mother's son has
taught thee to forget thyself.

I would beg, said I, one favour of your ladyship, That if you would have me keep my distance,
you will not forget your own degree.--Why, suppose, Miss Pert, I should forget my degree, wouldst
thou not keep thy distance then?

If you, madam, said I, lessen the distance yourself, you will descend to my level, and make
an equality, which I don't presume to think of; for I can't descend lower than I am--at least
in your ladyship's esteem!

Did I not tell you, Jackey, said she, that I should have a wit to talk to?--He, who swears
like a fine gentleman at every word, rapped out an oath, and said, drolling, I think, Mrs.
Pamela, if I may be so bold as to say so, you should know you are speaking to Lady Davers!--Sir,
said I, I hope there was no need of your information, and so I can't thank you for it; and
am sorry you seem to think it wants an oath to convince me of the truth of it.

He looked more foolish than I, at this, if possible, not expecting such a reprimand.--And said,
at last, Why, Mrs. Pamela, you put me half out of countenance with your witty reproof!--Sir,
said I, you seem quite a fine gentleman; and it will not be easily done, I dare say.

How now, pert one, said my lady, do you know whom you talk to?--I think I do not, madam, replied
I: and for fear I should forget myself more, I'll withdraw. Your ladyship's servant, said I;
and was going: but she rose, and gave me a push, and pulled a chair, and, setting the back
against the door, sat down in it.

Well, said I, I can bear anything at your ladyship's hands; but I was ready to cry though.
And I went, and sat down, and fanned myself, at the other end of the room.

Her woman, who stood all the time, said softly, Mrs. Pamela, you should not sit in my lady's
presence. And my lady, though she did not hear her, said, You shall sit down, child, in the
room where I am, when I give you leave.

So I stood up, and said, When your ladyship will hardly permit me to stand, one might be indulged
to sit down. But I ask you, said she, Whither your master is gone? To one Mr. Carlton, madam,
about eighteen miles off, who is very sick. And when does he come home?--This evening, madam.
And where are you going? To a gentleman's house in the town, madam.--And how was you to go?
In the chariot, madam.--Why, you must be a lady in time, to be sure!--I believe you'd become
a chariot mighty well, child!--Was you ever out in it with your master?

Pray, your ladyship, said I, a little too pertly, perhaps, be pleased to ask half a dozen such
questions together; because one answer may do for all!--Why, bold-face, said she, you'll forget
your distance, and bring me to your level before my time.

I could no longer refrain tears, but said, Pray your ladyship, let me ask what I have done,
to be thus severely treated? I never did your ladyship any harm. And if you think I am deceived,
as you was pleased to hint, I should be more entitled to your pity, than your anger.

She rose, and took me by the hand, and led me to her chair; and then sat down; and still holding
my hand, said, Why Pamela, I did indeed pity you while I thought you innocent; and when my
brother seized you, and brought you down hither, without your consent, I was concerned for
you; and I was still more concerned for you, and loved you, when I heard of your virtue and
resistance, and your laudable efforts to get away from him. But when, as I fear, you have suffered
yourself to be prevailed upon, and have lost your innocence, and added another to the number
of the fools he has ruined, (This shocked me a little,) I cannot help shewing my displeasure
to you.

Madam, replied I, I must beg no hasty judgment; I have not lost my innocence.--Take care, take
care, Pamela! said she: don't lose your veracity, as well as your honour!--Why are you here,
when you are at full liberty to go whither you please?--I will make one proposal to you, and
if you are innocent, I am sure you'll accept it. Will you go and live with me?--I will instantly
set out with you in my chariot, and not stay half an hour longer in this house, if you'll go
with me.--Now, if you are innocent, and willing to keep so, deny me, if you can.

I am innocent, madam, replied I, and willing to keep so; and yet I cannot consent to this.
Then, said she, very mannerly, Thou liest, child, that's all: and I give thee up!

And so she arose, and walked about the room in great wrath. Her nephew and her woman said,
Your ladyship's very good; 'tis a plain case; a very plain case!

I would have removed the chair, to have gone out; but her nephew came and sat in it. This provoked
me; for I thought I should be unworthy of the honour I was raised to, though I was afraid to
own it, if I did not shew some spirit; and I said, What, sir, is your pretence in this house,
to keep me a prisoner here? Because, said he--I like it.--Do you so, sir? replied I: if that
is the answer of a gentleman to such an one as I, it would not, I dare say, be the answer of
a gentleman to a gentleman.--My lady! my lady! said he, a challenge, a challenge, by gad! No,
sir, said I, I am of a sex that gives no challenges; and you think so too, or you would not
give this occasion for the word.

Said my lady, Don't be surprised, nephew; the wench could not talk thus, if she had not been
her master's bed-fellow.--Pamela, Pamela, said she, and tapped me upon the shoulder two or
three times, in anger, thou hast lost thy innocence, girl; and thou hast got some of thy bold
master's assurance, and art fit to go any where.--Then, and please your ladyship, said I, I
am unworthy of your presence, and desire I may quit it.

No, replied she, I will know first what reason you can give for not accepting my proposal,
if you are innocent? I can give, said I, a very good one: but I beg to be excused. I will hear
it, said she. Why, then, answered I, I should perhaps have less reason to like this gentleman,
than where I am.

Well then, said she, I'll put you to another trial. I'll set out this moment with you to your
father and mother, and give you up safe to them. What do you say to that?--Ay, Mrs. Pamela,
said her nephew, now what does your innocence say to that?--'Fore gad, madam, you have puzzled
her now.

Be pleased, madam, said I, to call off this fine gentleman. Your kindness in these proposals
makes me think you would not have me baited. I'll be d----d, said he, if she does not make
me a bull-dog! Why she'll toss us all by and by! Sir, said I, you indeed behave as if you were
in a bear-garden.

Jackey, be quiet, said my lady. You only give her a pretence to evade my questions. Come, answer
me, Pamela. I will, madam, said I, and it is thus: I have no occasion to be beholden to your
ladyship for this honour; for I am to set out to-morrow morning on the way to my parents.--Now
again thou liest, wench!--I am not of quality, said I, to answer such language.--Once again,
said she, provoke me not, by these reflections, and this pertness; if thou dost, I shall do
something by thee unworthy of myself. That, thought I, you have done already; but I ventured
not to say so. But who is to carry you, said she, to your father and mother? Who my master
pleases, madam, said I. Ay, said she, I doubt not thou wilt do every thing he pleases, if thou
hast not already. Why now tell me, Pamela, from thy heart, hast thou not been in bed with thy
master? Ha, wench!--I was quite shocked at this, and said, I wonder how your ladyship can use
me thus!--I am sure you can expect no answer; and my sex, and my tender years, might exempt
me from such treatment, from a person of your ladyship's birth and quality, and who, be the
distance ever so great, is of the same sex with me.

Thou art a confident wench, said she, I see!--Pray, madam, said I, let me beg you to permit
me to go. I am waited for in the town, to dinner. No, replied she, I can't spare you; and whomsoever
you are to go to, will excuse you, when they are told 'tis I that command you not to go;--and
you may excuse it too, young Lady Would-be, if you consider, that it is the unexpected coming
of your late lady's daughter, and your master's sister, that commands your stay.

But a pre-engagement, your ladyship will consider, is something.--Ay, so it is; but I know
not what reason waiting-maids have to assume these airs of pre-engagements! Oh, Pamela, Pamela,
I am sorry for thy thus aping thy betters, and giving thyself such airs: I see thou'rt quite
spoiled! Of a modest, innocent girl, that thou wast, and humble too, thou art now fit for nothing
in the world, but what I fear thou art.

Why, please your ladyship, said her kinsman, what signifies all you say? The matter's over
with her, no doubt; and she likes it; and she is in a fairy-dream, and 'tis pity to awaken
her before her dream's out.--Bad as you take me to be, madam, said I, I am not used to such
language or reflections as this gentleman bestows upon me; and I won't bear it.

Well, Jackey, said she, be silent; and, shaking her head, Poor girl!--said she--what a sweet
innocence is here destroyed!--A thousand pities!--I could cry over her, if that would do her
good! But she is quite lost, quite undone; and then has assumed a carriage upon it, that all
those creatures are distinguished by!

I cried sadly for vexation; and said, Say what you please, madam; if I can help it, I will
not answer another word.

Mrs. Jewkes came in, and asked if her ladyship was ready for dinner? She said, Yes. I would
have gone out with her but my lady said, taking my hand, she could not spare me. And, miss,
said she, you may pull off your gloves, and lay your fan by, for you shan't go; and, if you
behave well, you shall wait upon me at dinner, and then I shall have a little further talk
with you.

Mrs. Jewkes said to me, Madam, may I speak one word with you?--I can't tell, Mrs. Jewkes, said
I; for my lady holds my hand, and you see I am a kind of prisoner.

What you have to say, Mrs. Jewkes, said she, you may speak before me. But she went out, and
seemed vexed for me; and she says, I looked like the very scarlet.

The cloth was laid in another parlour, and for three persons, and she led me in: Come, my little
dear, said she, with a sneer, I'll hand you in; and I would have you think it as well as if
it was my brother.

What a sad case, thought I, should I be in, if I were as naughty as she thinks me! It was bad
enough as it was.

Jackey, said my lady, come, let us go to dinner. She said to her woman, Do you, Beck, help
Pamela to 'tend us; we will have no men-fellows.--Come, my young lady, shall I help you off
with your white gloves? I have not, madam, said I, deserved this at your ladyship's hands.

Mrs. Jewkes, coming in with the first dish, she said, Do you expect any body else, Mrs. Jewkes,
that you lay the cloth for three? said she, I hoped your ladyship and madam would have been
so well reconciled, that she would have sat down too.--What means the clownish woman? said
my lady, in great disdain: Could you think the creature should sit down with me? She does,
madam, and please your ladyship, with my master.--I doubt it not, good woman, said she, and
lies with him too, does she not? Answer me, fat-face!--How these ladies are privileged.

If she does, madam, said she, there may be a reason for it, perhaps! and went out.--So! said
she, has the wench got thee over too? Come, my little dear, pull off thy gloves, I say; and
off she pulled my left glove herself, and spied my ring. O my dear God! said she, if the wench
has not got a ring!--Well, this is a pretty piece of foolery, indeed! Dost know, my friend,
that thou art miserably tricked? And so, poor innocent, thou hast made a fine exchange, hast
thou not? Thy honesty for this bauble? And, I'll warrant, my little dear has topped her part,
and paraded it like any real wife; and so mimics still the condition!--Why, said she, and turned
me round, thou art as mincing as any bride! No wonder thou art thus tricked out, and talkest
of thy pre-engagements! Pr'ythee, child, walk before me to that glass; survey thyself, and
cone back to me, that I may see how finely thou can'st act the theatrical part given thee!

I was then resolved to try to be silent, although most sadly vexed.--So I went and sat me down
in the window, and she took her place at the upper end of the table; and her saucy Jackey,
fleering at me most provokingly, sat down by her. Said he, Shall not the bride sit down by
us, madam? Ay, well thought of! said my lady: Pray, Mrs. Bride, your pardon for sitting down
in your place!--I said nothing.

Said she, with a poor pun, Thou hast some modesty, however, child! for thou can'st not stand
it, so must sit down, though in my presence!--I still kept my seat, and said nothing.--Thought
I, this is a sad thing, that I am hindered too from shewing my duty where it is most due, and
shall have anger there too, may be, if my dear master should be there before me!--So she ate
some soup, as did her kinsman; and then, as she was cutting up a fowl, said, If thou longest,
my little dear, I will help thee to a pinion, or breast, or any thing. But may be, child, said
he, thou likest the rump; shall I bring it thee? And then laughed like an idiot, for all he
is a lord's son, and may be a lord himself.--For he is the son of Lord ----; and his mother,
who was Lord Davers's sister, being dead, he has received what education he has, from Lord
Davers's direction. Poor wretch! for all his greatness! he'll ne'er die for a plot--at least
of his own hatching. If I could then have gone up, I would have given you his picture. But,
for one of 25 or 26 years of age, much about the age of my dear master, he is a most odd mortal.

Pamela, said my lady, help me to a glass of wine. No, Beck, said she, you shan't; for she was
offering to do it. I will have my lady bride confer that honour upon me; and then I shall see
if she can stand up. I was silent, and never stirred.

Dost hear, chastity? said she, help me to a glass of wine, when I bid thee.--What! not stir?
Then I'll come and help thee to one. Still I stirred not, and, fanning myself, continued silent.
Said she, When I have asked thee, meek-one, half a dozen questions together, I suppose thou
wilt answer them all at once! Pretty creature, is not that it?

I was so vexed, I bit a piece of my fan out, not knowing what I did; but still I said nothing,
and did nothing but flutter it, and fan myself.

I believe, said she, my next question will make up half a dozen; and then, modest one, I shall
be entitled to an answer.

He rose and brought the bottle and glass; Come, said he, Mrs. Bride, be pleased to help my
lady, and I will be your deputy. Sir, replied I, it is in a good hand; help my lady yourself.--Why,
creature, said she, dost thou think thyself above it?--And then flew into a passion:--Insolence!
continued she, this moment, when I bid you, know your duty, and give me a glass of wine; or--

So I took a little spirit then--Thought I, I can but be beat.--If, said I, to attend your ladyship
at table, or even kneel at your feet, was required of me, I would most gladly do it, were I
only the person you think me; but, if it be to triumph over one who has received honours, that
she thinks require her to act another part, not to be utterly unworthy of them, I must say,
I cannot do it.

She seemed quite surprised, and looked now upon her kinsman, and then upon her woman--I'm astonished--quite
astonished!--Well, then, I suppose you would have me conclude you my brother's wife; could you not?

Your ladyship, said I, compels me to say this!--Well, returned she, but dost thou thyself think
thou art so?--Silence, said her kinsman, gives consent. 'Tis plain enough she does. Shall I
rise, madam, and pay my duty to my new aunt?

Tell me, said my lady, what, in the name of impudence, possesses thee to dare to look upon
thyself as my sister?--Madam, replied I, that is a question will better become your most worthy
brother to answer, than me.

She was rising in great wrath: but her woman said, Good your ladyship, you'll do yourself more
harm than her; and if the poor girl has been deluded so, as you have heard, with the sham marriage,
she'll be more deserving of your ladyship's pity than anger. True, Beck, very true, said my
lady; but there's no bearing the impudence of the creature in the mean time.

I would have gone out at the door, but her kinsman ran and set his back against it. I expected
bad treatment from her pride, and violent temper; but this was worse than I could have thought
of. And I said to him, Sir, when my master comes to know your rude behaviour, you will, may
be, have cause to repent it: and went and sat down in the window again.

Another challenge, by gad! said he; but I am glad she says her master!--You see, madam, she
herself does not believe she is married, and so has not been so much deluded as you think for:
And, coming to me with a most barbarous air of insult, he said, kneeling on one knee before
me, My new aunt, your blessing or your curse, I care not which; but quickly give me one or
other, that I may not lose my dinner!

I gave him a most contemptuous look: Tinselled toy, said I, (for he was laced all over), twenty
or thirty years hence, when you are at age, I shall know how to answer you better; mean time,
sport with your footman, and not with me! and so I removed to another window nearer the door,
and he looked like a sad fool, as he is.

Beck, Beck, said my lady, this is not to be borne! Was ever the like heard! Is my kinsman and
Lord Davers's to be thus used by such a slut? And was coming to me: And indeed I began to be
afraid; for I have but a poor heart, after all. But Mrs. Jewkes hearing high words, came in
again, with the second course, and said, Pray your ladyship, don't so discompose yourself.
I am afraid this day's business will make matters wider than ever between your good ladyship
and your brother: For my master doats upon madam.

Woman, said she, do thou be silent! Sure, I that was born in this house, may have some privilege
in it, without being talked to by the saucy servants in it!

I beg pardon, madam, replied Mrs. Jewkes; and, turning to me, said, Madam, my master will take
it very ill if you make him wait for you thus. So I rose to go out; but my lady said, If it
was only for that reason she shan't go.--And went to the door and shut it, and said to Mrs.
Jewkes, Woman, don't come again till I call you; and coming to me, took my hand, and said,
Find your legs, miss, if you please.

I stood up, and she tapped my cheek! Oh, says she, that scarlet glow shews what a rancorous
little heart thou hast, if thou durst shew it! but come this way; and so led me to her chair:
Stand there, said she, and answer me a few questions while I dine, and I'll dismiss thee, till
I call thy impudent master to account; and then I'll have you face to face, and all this mystery
of iniquity shall be unravelled; for, between you, I will come to the bottom of it.

When she had sat down, I moved to the window on the other side of the parlour, looking into
the private garden; and her woman said, Mrs. Pamela, don't make my lady angry. Stand by her
ladyship, as she bids you. Said I, Pray, good now, let it suffice you to attend your lady's
commands, and don't lay yours upon me.--Your pardon, sweet Mrs. Pamela, said she. Times are
much altered with you, I'll assure you! said I, Her ladyship has a very good plea to be free
in the house that she was born in; but you may as well confine your freedoms to the house in
which you had your breedings. Why, how now, Mrs. Pamela, said she; since you provoke me to
it, I'll tell you a piece of my mind. Hush, hush, good woman, said I, alluding to my lady's
language to Mrs. Jewkes, my lady wants not your assistance:--Besides, I can't scold!

The woman was ready to flutter with vexation; and Lord Jackey laughed as if he would burst
his sides: G--d d--n me, Beck, said he, you'd better let her alone to my lady here for she'll
be too many for twenty such as you and I!--And then he laughed again, and repeated--I can't
scold, quoth-a! but, by gad, miss, you can speak d----d spiteful words, I can tell you that!--Poor
Beck, poor Beck!--'Fore gad, she's quite dumbfoundered!

Well, but Pamela, said my lady, come hither, and tell me truly, Dost thou think thyself really
married?--Said I, and approached her chair, My good lady, I'll answer all your commands, if
you'll have patience with me, and not be so angry as you are: But I can't bear to be used thus
by this gentleman, and your ladyship's woman. Child, said she, thou art very impertinent to
my kinsman; thou can'st not be civil to me; and my ladyship's woman is much thy betters. But
that's not the thing!--Dost thou think thou art really married?

I see, madam, said I, you are resolved not to be pleased with any answer I shall return: If
I should say, I am not, then your ladyship will call me hard names, and, perhaps, I should
tell a fib. If I should say, I am, your ladyship will ask, how I have the impudence to be so?--and
will call it a sham-marriage. I will, said she, be answered more directly. Why, what, madam,
does it signify what I think? Your ladyship will believe as you please.

But can'st thou have the vanity, the pride, the folly, said she, to think thyself actually
married to my brother? He is no fool, child; and libertine enough of conscience; and thou art
not the first in the list of his credulous harlots.--Well, well, said I, (and was in a sad
flutter,) as I am easy, and pleased with my lot, pray, madam, let me continue so, as long as
I can. It will be time enough for me to know the worst, when the worst comes. And if it should
be so bad, your ladyship should pity me, rather than thus torment me before my time.

Well, said she, but dost not think I am concerned, that a young wench, whom my poor dear mother
loved so well, should thus cast herself away, and suffer herself to be deluded and undone,
after such a noble stand as thou madst for so long a time?

I think myself far from being deluded and undone, and am as innocent and virtuous as ever I
was in my life. Thou liest, child, said she.

So your ladyship told me twice before.

She gave me a slap on the hand for this; and I made a low courtesy, and said, I humbly thank
your ladyship! but I could not refrain tears: And added, Your dear brother, madam, however,
won't thank your ladyship for this usage of me, though I do. Come a little nearer me, my dear,
said she, and thou shalt have a little more than that to tell him of, if thou think'st thou
hast not made mischief enough already between a sister and brother. But, child, if he was here,
I would serve thee worse, and him too. I wish he was, said I.--Dost thou threaten me, mischief-maker,
and insolent as thou art?

Now, pray, madam, said I, (but got to a little distance,) be pleased to reflect upon all that
you have said to me, since I have had the honour, or rather misfortune, to come into your presence;
whether you have said one thing befitting your ladyship's degree to me, even supposing I was
the wench and the creature you imagine me to be?--Come hither, my pert dear, replied she, come
but within my reach for one moment, and I'll answer thee as thou deservest.

To be sure she meant to box my ears. But I should not be worthy my happy lot if I could not
shew some spirit.

When the cloth was taken away, I said, I suppose I may now depart your presence, madam? I suppose
not, said she. Why, I'll lay thee a wager, child, thy stomach's too full to eat, and so thou
may'st fast till thy mannerly master comes home.

Pray your ladyship, said her woman, let the poor girl sit down at table with Mrs. Jewkes and
me.--Said I, You are very kind, Mrs. Worden; but times, as you said, are much altered with
me; and I have been of late so much honoured with better company, that I can't stoop to yours.

Was ever such confidence! said my lady.--Poor Beck! poor Beck! said her kinsman; why she beats
you quite out of the pit!--Will your ladyship, said I, be so good as to tell me how long I
am to tarry? For you'll please to see by that letter, that I am obliged to attend my master's
commands. And so I gave her the dear gentleman's letter from Mr. Carlton's, which I thought
would make her use me better, as she might judge by it of the honour done me by him. Ay, said
she, this is my worthy brother's hand. It is directed to Mrs. Andrews. That's to you, I suppose,
child? And so she ran on, making remarks as she went along, in this manner:

My dearest PAMELA,--'Mighty well!'--I hope my not coming home this night, will not frighten
you!--'Vastly tender, indeed!--And did it frighten you, child?'--You may believe I can't help
it. 'No, to be sure!--A person in thy way of life, is more tenderly used than an honest wife.
But mark the end of it!'--I could have wished--'Pr'ythee, Jackey, mind this,'--we--'mind the
significant we,'--had not engaged to the good neighbourhood, at Sir Simon's, for to-morrow
night.--'Why, does the good neighbourhood, and does Sir Simon, permit thy visits, child? They
shall have none of mine, then, I'll assure them!'--But I am so desirous to set out on Wednesday
for the other house--'So, Jackey, but we just nicked it, I find:'--that, as well as in return
for the civilities of so many good friends, who will be there on purpose, I would not put it
off.--'Now mind, Jackey.'--What I beg of you--'Mind the wretch, that could use me and your
uncle as he has done; he is turned beggar to this creature!'--I beg of you, therefore, my dear--'My
dear! there's for you!--I wish I may not be quite sick before I get through.'--What I beg of
you, therefore, my dear, [and then she looked me full in the face,] is, that you will go in
the chariot to Sir Simon's, the sooner in the day the better;--'Dear heart! and why so, when
WE were not expected till night? Why, pray observe the reason--Hem!' [said she]--Because you
will be diverted with the company;--'Mighty kind, indeed!'--who all--'Jackey, Jackey, mind
this,'--who all so much admire you. 'Now he'd ha' been hanged before he would have said so
complaisant a thing, had he been married, I'm sure!'--Very true, aunt, said he: A plain case
that!--[Thought I, that's hard upon poor matrimony, though I hope my lady don't find it so.
Let me repeat it'--I count every hour of this little absence for a day!--'Mind, too, the wit
of the good man! One may see love is a new thing to him. Here is a very tedious time gone since
he saw his deary; no less than, according to his amorous calculation, a dozen days and nights,
at least! and yet, TEDIOUS as it is, it is but a LITTLE ABSENCE. Well said, my good, accurate,
and consistent brother!--But wise men in love are always the greatest simpletons!--But now
cones the reason why this LITTLE ABSENCE, which, at the same time, is SO GREAT an ABSENCE,
is so tedious:'--FOR I am--'Ay, now for it!'--with the UTMOST sincerity, my dearest love--'Out
upon DEAREST love! I shall never love the word again! Pray bid your uncle never call me dearest
love, Jackey!'--For ever yours!--'But, brother, thou liest!--Thou knowest thou dost.--And so,
my good Lady Andrews, or what shall I call you? Your dearest love will be for ever yours! And
hast thou the vanity to believe this?--But stay, here is a postscript. The poor man knew not
when to have done to his dearest love.--He's sadly in for't, truly! Why, his dearest love,
you are mighty happy in such a lover!'--If you could go to dine with them--'Cry you mercy,
my dearest love, now comes the pre-engagement!'--it will be a freedom that will be very pleasing
to them, and the more, as they don't expect it.

Well, so much for this kind letter! But you see you cannot honour this admiring company with
this little expected, and, but in complaisance to his folly, I dare say, little desired freedom.
And I cannot forbear admiring you so much myself, my dearest love, that I will not spare you
at all, this whole evening: For 'tis a little hard, if thy master's sister may not be blest
a little bit with thy charming company.

So I found I had shewn her my letter to very little purpose, and repented it several times,
as she read on.--Well, then, said I, I hope your ladyship will give me leave to send my excuses
to your good brother, and say, that your ladyship is come, and is so fond of me, that you will
not let me leave you.--Pretty creature, said she; and wantest thou thy good master to come,
and quarrel with his sister on thy account?--But thou shalt not stir from my presence; and
I would now ask thee, What it is thou meanest by shewing me this letter?--Why, madam, said
I, to shew your ladyship how I was engaged for this day and evening.--And for nothing else?
said she. Why, I can't tell, madam, said I: But if you can collect from it any other circumstances,
I might hope I should not be the worse treated.

I saw her eyes began to sparkle with passion: and she took my hand, and said, grasping it very
hard, I know, confident creature, that thou shewedst it me to insult me!--You shewed it me,
to let me see, that he could be civiller to a beggar born, than to me, or to my good Lord Davers!--You
shewed it me, as if you'd have me to be as credulous a fool as yourself, to believe your marriage
true, when I know the whole trick of it, and have reason to believe you do too; and you shewed
it me, to upbraid me with his stooping to such painted dirt, to the disgrace of a family, ancient
and untainted beyond most in the kingdom. And now will I give thee one hundred guineas for
one bold word, that I may fell thee at my foot!

Was not this very dreadful! To be sure, I had better have kept the letter from her. I was quite
frightened!--And this fearful menace, and her fiery eyes, and rageful countenance, made me
lose all my courage.--So I said, weeping, Good your ladyship, pity me!--Indeed I am honest;
indeed I am virtuous; indeed I would not do a bad thing for the world!

Though I know, said she, the whole trick of thy pretended marriage, and thy foolish ring here,
and all the rest of the wicked nonsense, yet I should not have patience with thee, if thou
shouldst but offer to let me know thy vanity prompts thee to believe thou art married to my
brother!--I could not bear the thought!--So take care, Pamela; take care, beggarly brat; take care.

Good madam, said I, spare my dear parents. They are honest and industrious: they were once
in a very creditable way, and never were beggars. Misfortunes may attend any body: And I can
bear the cruellest imputations on myself, because I know my innocence; but upon such honest,
industrious parents, who went through the greatest trials, without being beholden to any thing
but God's blessing, and their own hard labour; I cannot bear reflection.

What! art thou setting up for a family, creature as thou art! God give me patience with thee!
I suppose my brother's folly, and his wickedness, together, will, in a little while, occasion
a search at the heralds' office, to set out thy wretched obscurity! Provoke me, I desire thou
wilt! One hundred guineas will I give thee, to say but thou thinkest thou art married to my
brother.

Your ladyship, I hope, won't kill me: And since nothing I can say will please you, but your
ladyship is resolved to quarrel with me; since I must not say what I think, on one hand nor
another; whatever your ladyship designs by me, be pleased to do, and let me depart your presence!

She gave me a slap on the hand, and reached to box my ear; but Mrs. Jewkes hearkening without,
and her woman too, they both came in at that instant; and Mrs. Jewkes said, pushing herself
in between us; Your ladyship knows not what you do! Indeed you don't! My master would never
forgive me, if I suffered, in his house, one he so dearly loves, to be so used; and it must
not be, though you are Lady Davers. Her woman too interposed, and told her, I was not worth
her ladyship's anger. But she was like a person beside herself.

I offered to go out, and Mrs. Jewkes took my hand to lead me out: But her kinsman set his back
against the door, and put his hand to his sword, and said, I should not go, till his aunt permitted
it. He drew it half-way, and I was so terrified, that I cried out, Oh, the sword! the sword!
and, not knowing what I did, I ran to my lady herself, and clasped my arms about her, forgetting,
just then, how much she was my enemy, and said, sinking on my knees, Defend me, good your ladyship!
the sword! the sword!--Mrs. Jewkes said, Oh! my lady will fall into fits! But Lady Davers was
herself so startled at the matter being carried so far, that she did not mind her words, and
said, Jackey, don't draw your sword!--You see, as great as her spirit is, she can't bear that.

Come, said she, be comforted; he shan't frighten you!--I'll try to overcome my anger, and will
pity you. So, wench, rise up, and don't be foolish. Mrs. Jewkes held her salts to my nose,
and I did not faint. And my lady said, Mrs. Jewkes, if you would be forgiven, leave Pamela
and me by ourselves; and, Jackey, do you withdraw; only you, Beck, stay.

So I sat down in the window, all in a sad fluster; for, to be sure, I was sadly frightened.--Said
her woman, You should not sit in my lady's presence, Mrs. Pamela. Yes, let her sit till she
is a little recovered of her fright, said my lady, and do you set my chair by her. And so she
sat over-against me, and said, To be sure, Pamela, you have been very provoking with your tongue,
to be sure you have, as well upon my nephew, (who is a man of quality too,) as me. And palliating
her cruel usage, and beginning, I suppose, to think herself she had carried it further than
she could answer it to her brother, she wanted to lay the fault upon me. Own, said she, you
have been very saucy; and beg my pardon, and beg Jackey's pardon, and I will try to pity you.
For you are a sweet girl, after all; if you had but held out, and been honest.

'Tis injurious to me, madam, said I, to imagine I am not honest!--Said she, Have you not been
a-bed with my brother? tell me that. Your ladyship, replied I, asks your questions in a strange
way, and in strange words.

O! your delicacy is wounded, I suppose, by my plain questions!--This niceness will soon leave
you, wench: It will, indeed. But answer me directly. Then your ladyship's next question, said
I, will be, Am I married? And you won't bear my answer to that--and will beat me again.

I han't beat you yet; have I, Beck? said she. So you want to make out a story, do you?--But,
indeed, I can't bear thou shouldst so much as think thou art my sister. I know the whole trick
of it; and so, 'tis my opinion, dost thou. It is only thy little cunning, that it might look
like a cloak to thy yielding, and get better terms from him. Pr'ythee, pr'ythee, wench, thou
seest I know the world a little;--almost as much at thirty-two, as thou dost at sixteen.--Remember
that!

I rose from the window, and walking to the other end of the room, Beat me again, if you please,
said I, but I must tell your ladyship, I scorn your words, and am as much married as your ladyship!

At that she ran to me; but her woman interposed again: Let the vain wicked creature go from
your presence, madam, said she. She is not worthy to be in it. She will but vex your ladyship.
Stand away, Beck, said she. That's an assertion that I would not take from my brother, I can't
bear it. As much married as I!--Is that to be borne? But if the creature believes she is, madam,
said her woman, she is to be as much pitied for her credulity, as despised for her vanity.

I was in hopes to have slipt out at the door; but she caught hold of my gown, and pulled me
back. Pray your ladyship, said I, don't kill me!--I have done no harm.--But she locked the
door, and put the key in her pocket. So, seeing Mrs. Jewkes before the window, I lifted up
the sash, and said, Mrs. Jewkes, I believe it would be best for the chariot to go to your master,
and let him know, that Lady Davers is here; and I cannot leave her ladyship.

She was resolved to be displeased, let me say what I would.

Said she, No, no; he'll then think, that I make the creature my companion, and know not how
to part with her. I thought your ladyship, replied I, could not have taken exceptions at this
message. Thou knowest nothing, wench, said she, of what belongs to people of condition: How
shouldst thou? Nor, thought I, do I desire it, at this rate.

What shall I say, madam? said I. Nothing at all, replied she; let him expect his dearest love,
and be disappointed; it is but adding a few more hours, and he will make every one a day, in
his amorous account.--Mrs. Jewkes coming nearer me, and my lady walking about the room, being
then at the end, I whispered, Let Robert stay at the elms; I'll have a struggle for't by and by.

As much married as I! repeated she.--The insolence of the creature!--And so she walked about
the room, talking to herself, to her woman, and now and then to me; but seeing I could not
please her, I thought I had better be silent. And then it was, Am I not worthy an answer? If
I speak, said I, your ladyship is angry at me, though ever so respectfully; if I do not, I
cannot please: Would your ladyship tell me but how I shall oblige you, and I would do it with
all my heart.

Confess the truth, said she, that thou art an undone creature; hast been in bed with thy master;
and art sorry for it, and for the mischief thou hast occasioned between him and me; and then
I'll pity thee, and persuade him to pack thee off, with a hundred or two of guineas; and some
honest farmer may take pity of thee, and patch up thy shame, for the sake of the money; and
if nobody will have thee, thou must vow penitence, and be as humble as I once thought thee.

I was quite sick at heart, at all this passionate extravagance, and to be hindered from being
where was the desire of my soul, and afraid too of incurring my dear master's displeasure;
and, as I sat, I saw it was no hard matter to get out of the window into the front yard, the
parlour being even with the yard, and so have a fair run for it; and after I had seen my lady
at the other end of the room again, in her walks, having not pulled down the sash, when I spoke
to Mrs. Jewkes, I got upon the seat, and whipped out in a minute, and ran away as hard as I
could drive, my lady calling after me to return, and her woman at the other window: But two
of her servants appearing at her crying out, and she bidding them to stop me, I said, Touch
me at your peril, fellows! But their lady's commands would have prevailed on them, had not
Mr. Colbrand, who, it seems, had been kindly ordered, by Mrs. Jewkes, to be within call, when
she saw how I was treated, come up, and put on one of his deadly fierce looks, the only time,
I thought, it ever became him, and said, He would chine the man, that was his word, who offered
to touch his lady; and so he ran alongside of me; and I heard my lady say, The creature flies
like a bird! And, indeed, Mr. Colbrand, with his huge strides, could hardly keep pace with
me; and I never stopped, till I got to the chariot; and Robert had got down, seeing me running
at a distance, and held the door in his hand, with the step ready down; and in I jumped, without
touching the step, saying, Drive me, drive me, as fast as you can, out of my lady's reach!
And he mounted; and Colbrand said, Don't be frightened, madam; nobody shall hurt you.--And
shut the door, and away Robert drove; but I was quite out of breath, and did not recover it,
and my fright, all the way.

Mr. Colbrand was so kind, but I did not know it till the chariot stopped at Sir Simon's, to
step up behind the carriage, lest, as he said, my lady should send after me; and he told Mrs.
Jewkes, when he got home, that he never saw such a runner as me in his life.

When the chariot stopped, which was not till six o'clock, so long did this cruel lady keep
me, Miss Darnford ran out to me: O madam, said she, ten times welcome! but you'll be beat,
I can tell you! for here has been Mr. B---- come these two hours, and is very angry with you.

That's hard indeed, said I;--Indeed I can't afford it;--for I hardly knew what I said, having
not recovered my fright. Let me sit down, miss, any where, said I; for I have been sadly off.
So I sat down, and was quite sick with the hurry of my spirits, and leaned upon her arm.

Said she, Your lord and master came in very moody; and when he had staid an hour, and you not
come, he began to fret, and said, He did not expect so little complaisance from you. And he
is now sat down, with great persuasion, to a game at loo.--Come, you must make your appearance,
lady fair; for he is too sullen to attend you, I doubt.

You have no strangers, have you miss? said I.--Only two women relations from Stamford, replied
she, and an humble servant of one of them.--Only all the world, miss! said I.--What shall I
do, if he be angry? I can't bear that.

Just as I had said so, came in Lady Darnford and Lady Jones to chide me, as they said, for
not coming sooner. And before I could speak, came in my dear master. I ran to him. How dy'e
Pamela? said he; and saluting me, with a little more formality than I could well bear.--I expected
half a word from me, when I was so complaisant to your choice, would have determined you, and
that you'd have been here to dinner;--and the rather, as I made my request a reasonable one,
and what I thought would be agreeable to you. O dear sir, said I, pray, pray, hear me, and
you'll pity me, and not be displeased! Mrs. Jewkes will tell you, that as soon as I had your
kind commands, I said, I would obey you, and come to dinner with these good ladies; and so
prepared myself instantly, with all the pleasure in the world. Lady Darnford and miss said
I was their dear!--Look you, said miss, did I not tell you, stately one, that something must
have happened? But, O these tyrants! these men!

Why, what hindered it, my dear? said he: give yourself time; you seem out of breath!--O sir,
said I, out of breath! well I may!--For, just as I was ready to come away, who should drive
into the court-yard, but Lady Davers!--Lady Davers! Nay, then, my sweet dear, said he, and
saluted me more tenderly, hast thou had a worse trial than I wish thee, from one of the haughtiest
women in England, though my sister!--For, she too, my Pamela, was spoiled by my good mother!--But
have you seen her?

Yes, sir, said I, and more than seen her!--Why sure, said he, she has not had the insolence
to strike my girl!--Sir, said I, but tell me you forgive me; for indeed I could not come sooner;
and these good ladies but excuse me; and I'll tell you all another time; for to take up the
good company's attention now, will spoil their pleasantry, and be to them, though more important
to me, like the broken china you cautioned me about.

That's a dear girl! said he; I see my hints are not thrown away upon you; and I beg pardon
for being angry with you; and, for the future, will stay till I hear your defence, before I
judge you. Said Miss Darnford, This is a little better! To own a fault is some reparation;
and what every lordly husband will not do. He said, But tell me, my dear, did Lady Davers offer
you any incivility? O sir, replied I, she is your sister, and I must not tell you all; but
she has used me very severely! Did you tell her, said he, you were married? Yes, sir, I did
at last; but she will have it 'tis a sham-marriage, and that I am a vile creature: and she
was ready to beat me, when I said so: for she could not have patience, that I should be deemed
her sister, as she said.

How unlucky it was, replied he, I was not at home?--Why did you not send to me here? Send,
sir! I was kept prisoner by force. They would not let me stir, or do you think I would have
been hindered from obeying you? Nay, I told them, that I had a pre-engagement; but she ridiculed
me, and said, Waiting-maids talk of pre-engagements! And then I shewed her your kind letter;
and she made a thousand remarks upon it, and made me wish I had not. In short, whatever I could
do or say, there was no pleasing her; and I was a creature and wench, and all that was naught.
But you must not be angry with her on my account.

Well, but, said he, I suppose she hardly asked you to dine with her; for she came before dinner,
I presume, if it was soon after you had received my letter! No, sir, dine with my lady! no,
indeed! Why, she would make me wait at table upon her, with her woman, because she would not
expose herself and me before the men-servants; which you know, sir, was very good of her ladyship.

Well, said he, but did you wait upon her? Would you have had me, sir? said I.--Only, Pamela,
replied he, if you did, and knew not what belonged to your character, as my wife, I shall be
very angry with you. Sir, said I, I did not, but refused it, out of consideration to the dignity
you have raised me to; else, sir, I could have waited on my knees upon your sister.

Now, said he, you confirm my opinion of your prudence and judgment. She is an insolent woman,
and shall dearly repent it. But, sir, she is to be excused, because she won't believe I am
indeed married; so don't be too angry at her ladyship.

He said, Ladies, pray don't let us keep you from the company; I'll only ask a question or two
more, and attend you. Said Lady Jones, I so much long to hear this story of poor madam's persecution,
that, if it was not improper, I should be glad to stay. Miss Darnford would stay for the same
reason; my master saying, He had no secrets to ask; and that it was kind of them to interest
themselves in my grievances.

But Lady Darnford went into the company, and told them the cause of my detention; for, it seems,
my dear master loved me too well, to keep to himself the disappointment my not being here to
receive him, was to him; and they had all given the two Misses Boroughs and Mr. Perry, the
Stamford guests, such a character of me, that they said they were impatient to see me.

Said my master, But, Pamela, you said they and them: Who had my sister with her besides her
woman? Her nephew, sir, and three footmen on horseback; and she and her woman were in her chariot
and six.

That's a sad coxcomb, said he: How did he behave to you?--Not extraordinarily, sir; but I should
not complain; for I was even with him; because I thought I ought not to bear with him as with
my lady.

By Heaven! said he, if I knew he behaved unhandsomely to my jewel, I'd send him home to his
uncle without his ears. Indeed, sir, returned I, I was as hard upon him as he was upon me.
Said he, 'Tis kind to say so; but I believe I shall make them dearly repent their visit, if
I find their behaviour to call for my resentment.

But, sure, my dear, you might have got away when you went to your own dinner? Indeed, sir,
said I, her ladyship locked me in, and would not let me stir.--So you ha'nt ate any dinner?
No, indeed, sir, nor had a stomach for any. My poor dear, said he. But then, how got you away
at last? O sir, replied I, I jumped out of the parlour window, and ran away to the chariot,
which had waited for me several hours, by the elm-walk, from the time of my lady's coming (for
I was just going, as I said); and Mr. Colbrand conducted me through her servants, whom she
called to, to stop me; and was so kind to step behind the chariot, unknown to me, and saw me
safe here.

I'm sure, said he, these insolent creatures must have treated you vilely. But tell me, what
part did Mrs. Jewkes act in this affair? A very kind part, sir, said I, in my behalf; and I
shall thank her for it. Sweet creature! said he, thou lovest to speak well of every body; but
I hope she deserves it; for she knew you were married.--But come, we'll now join the company,
and try to forget all you have suffered, for two or three hours, that we may not tire the company
with our concerns and resume the subject as we go home: and you shall find I will do you justice,
as I ought. But you forgive me, sir, said I, and are not angry? Forgive you, my dear! returned
he--I hope you forgive me! I shall never make you satisfaction for what you have suffered from
me, and for me! And with those words he led me into the company.

He very kindly presented me to the two stranger ladies, and the gentleman, and them to me:
and Sir Simon, who was at cards, rose from table, and saluted me: Adad! madam, said he, I'm
glad to see you here. What, it seems you have been a prisoner! 'Twas well you was, or your
spouse and I should have sat in judgment upon you, and condemned you to a fearful punishment
for your first crime of laesae majestatis: (I had this explained to me afterwards, as a sort
of treason against my liege lord and husband:) for we husbands hereabouts, said he, are resolved
to turn over a new leaf with our wives, and your lord and master shall shew us the way, I can
tell you that. But I see by your eyes, my sweet culprit, added he, and your complexion, you
have had sour sauce to your sweet meat.

Miss Darnford said, I think we are obliged to our sweet guest, at last; for she was forced
to jump out at a window to come to us. Indeed! said Mrs. Peters;--and my master's back being
turned, says she, Lady Davers, when a maiden, was always vastly passionate; but a very good
lady when her passion was over. And she'd make nothing of slapping her maids about, and begging
their pardons afterwards, if they took it patiently; otherwise she used to say the creatures
were even with her.

Ay, said I, I have been a many creatures and wenches, and I know not what; for these were the
names she gave me. And I thought I ought to act up to the part her dear brother has given me;
and so I have but just escaped a good cuffing.

Miss Boroughs said to her sister, as I overheard, but she did not design I should, What a sweet
creature is this! and then she takes so little upon her, is so free, so easy, and owns the
honour done her, so obligingly! said Mr. Perry, softly, The loveliest person I ever saw! Who
could have the heart to be angry with her one moment?

Says Miss Darnford, Here, my dearest neighbour, these gentry are admiring you strangely; and
Mr. Perry says, you are the loveliest lady he ever saw; and he says it to his own mistress's
face too, I'll assure you!--Or else, says Miss Boroughs, I should think he much flattered me.

O, madam, you are exceedingly obliging! but your kind opinion ought to teach me humility, and
to reverence so generous a worth as can give a preference against yourself, where it is so
little due. Indeed, madam, said Miss Nanny Boroughs, I love my sister well; but it would be
a high compliment to any lady, to be deemed worthy a second or third place after you.

There is no answering such politeness, said I: I am sure Lady Davers was very cruel to keep
me from such company. 'Twas our loss, madam, says Miss Darnford. I'll allow it, said I, in
degree; for you have all been deprived, several hours, of an humble admirer.

Mr. Perry said, I never before saw so young a lady shine forth with such graces of mind and
person. Alas! sir, said I, my master coming up, mine is but a borrowed shine, like that of
the moon. Here is the sun, to whose fervent glow of generosity I owe all the faint lustre,
that your goodness is pleased to look upon with so much kind distinction.

Mr. Perry was pleased to hold up his hands; and the ladies looked upon one another. And my
master said, hearing part of the last sentence, What's the pretty subject, that my Pamela is
displaying so sweetly her talents upon?

Oh! sir, said Mr. Perry, I will pronounce you the happiest man in England: and so said they all.

My master said, most generously, Thank ye, thank ye, thank ye, all round, my dear friends.
I know not your subject; but if you believe me so, for a single instance of this dear girl's
goodness, what must I think myself, when blessed with a thousand instances, and experiencing
it in every single act and word! I do assure you my Pamela's person, all lovely as you see
it, is far short of her mind: That, indeed, first attracted my admiration, and made me her
lover: but they were the beauties of her mind, that made me her husband; and proud, my sweet
dear, said he, pressing my hand, am I of that title.

Well, said Mr. Perry, very kindly and politely, excellent as your lady is, I know not the gentleman
that could deserve her, but that one who could say such just and such fine things.

I was all abashed; and took Miss Darnford's hand, and said, Save me, dear miss, by your sweet
example, from my rising pride. But could I deserve half these kind things, what a happy creature
should I be! said Miss Darnford, You deserve them all, indeed you do.

The greatest part of the company having sat down to loo, my master being pressed, said he would
take one game at whist; but had rather be excused too, having been up all night: and I asked
how his friend did? We'll talk of that, said he, another time; which, and his seriousness,
made me fear the poor gentleman was dead, as it proved.

We cast in, and Miss Boroughs and my master were together, and Mr. Perry and I; and I had all
four honours the first time, and we were up at one deal. Said my master, An honourable hand,
Pamela, should go with an honourable heart; but you'd not have been up, if a knave had not
been one. Whist, sir, said Mr. Perry, you know, was a court game originally; and the knave,
I suppose, signified always the prime minister.

'Tis well, said my master, if now there is but one knave in a court, out of four persons, take
the court through.

The king and queen, sir, said Mr. Perry, can do no wrong, you know. So there are two that must
be good out of four; and the ace seems too plain a card to mean much hurt.

We compliment the king, said my master, in that manner; and 'tis well to do so, because there
is something sacred in the character. But yet, if force of example be considered, it is going
a great way; for certainly a good master makes a good servant, generally speaking.

One thing, added he, I will say, in regard to the ace: I have always looked upon that plain
and honest looking card in the light you do: and have considered whist as an English game in
its original; which has made me fonder of it than of any other. For by the ace I have always
thought the laws of the land denoted; and as the ace is above the king or queen, and wins them,
I think the law should be thought so too; though, may be, I shall be deemed a Whig for my opinion.

I shall never play whist, said Mr. Perry, without thinking of this, and shall love the game
the better for the thought; though I am no party-man. Nor I, said my master; for I think the
distinctions of whig and tory odious; and love the one or the other only as they are honest
and worthy men; and have never (nor never shall, hope) given a vote, but according to what
I thought was for the public good, let either whig or tory propose it.

I wish, sir, replied Mr. Perry, all gentlemen in your station would act so. If there was no
undue influence, said my master, I am willing to think so well of all mankind, that I believe
they generally would.

But you see, said he, by my Pamela's hand, when all the court-cards get together, and are acted
by one mind, the game is usually turned accordingly: Though now and then, too, it may be so
circumstanced, that honours will do them no good, and they are forced to depend altogether
upon tricks.

I thought this way of talking prettier than the game itself. But I said, Though I have won
the game, I hope I am no trickster. No, said my master, God forbid but court-cards should sometimes
win with honour! But you see, for all that, your game is as much owing to the knave as the
king; and you, my fair-one, lost no advantage, when it was put into your power.

Else, sir, said I, I should not have done justice to my partner. You are certainly right, Pamela,
replied he; though you thereby beat your husband. Sir, said I, you may be my partner next,
and I must do justice, you know. Well, said he, always choose so worthy a friend, as chance
has given you for a partner, and I shall never find fault with you, do what you will.

Mr. Perry said, You are very good to me, sir; and Miss Boroughs, I observed, seemed pleased
with the compliment to her humble servant; by which I saw she esteemed him, as he appears to
deserve. Dear sir! said I, how much better is this, than to be locked in by Lady Davers!

The supper was brought in sooner on my account, because I had had no dinner; and there passed
very agreeable compliments on the occasion. Lady Darnford would help me first, because I had
so long fasted, as she said. Sir Simon would have placed himself next me: And my master said,
He thought it was best, where there was an equal number of ladies and gentlemen, that they
should sit, intermingled, that the gentlemen might be employed in helping and serving the ladies.
Lady Darnford said, She hoped Sir Simon would not sit above any ladies at his own table especially.
Well, said he, I shall sit over-against her, however, and that's as well.

My dearest sir could not keep his eyes off me, and seemed generously delighted with all I did,
and all I said; and every one was pleased to see his kind and affectionate behaviour to me.

Lady Jones brought up the discourse about Lady Davers again; and my master said, I fear, Pamela,
you have been hardly used, more than you'll say. I know my sister's passionate temper too well,
to believe she could be over-civil to you, especially as it happened so unluckily that I was
out. If, added he, she had no pique to you, my dear, yet what has passed between her and me,
has so exasperated her, that I know she would have quarrelled with my horse, if she had thought
I valued it, and nobody else was in her way. Dear sir, said I, don't say so of good Lady Davers.

Why, my dear, said he, I know she came on purpose to quarrel; and had she not found herself
under a very violent uneasiness, after what had passed between us, and my treatment of her
lord's letter, she would not have offered to come near me. What sort of language had she for
me, Pamela? O sir, very good, only her well-mannered brother, and such as that!

Only, said he, 'tis taking up the attention of the company disagreeably, or I could tell you
almost every word she said. Lady Jones wished to hear a further account of my lady's conduct,
and most of the company joined with her, particularly Mrs. Peters; who said, that as they knew
the story, and Lady Davers's temper, though she was very good in the main, they could wish
to be so agreeably entertained, if he and I pleased; because they imagined I should have no
difficulties after this.

Tell me, then, Pamela, said he, did she lift up her hand at you? Did she strike you? But I
hope not! A little slap of the hand, said I, or so.--Insolent woman! She did not, I hope, offer
to strike your face? Why, said I, I was a little saucy once or twice; and she would have given
me a cuff on the ear, if her woman and Mrs. Jewkes had not interposed. Why did you not come
out at the door? Because, said I, her ladyship sat in the chair against it, one while, and
another while locked it; else I offered several times to get away.

She knew I expected you here: You say, you shewed her my letter to you? Yes, sir, said I; but
I had better not; for she as then more exasperated, and made strange comments upon it. I doubt
it not, said he; but, did she not see, by the kind epithets in it, that there was no room to
doubt of our being married? O, sir, replied I, and made the company smile, she said, For that
very reason she was sure I was not married.

That's like my sister! said he; exactly like her; and yet she lives very happily herself: for
her poor lord never contradicts her. Indeed he dares not.

You were a great many wenches, were you not, my dear? for that's a great word with her.--Yes,
sir, said I, wenches and creatures out of number; and worse than all that. What? tell me, my
dear. Sir, said I, I must not have you angry with Lady Davers; while you are so good to me,
'tis all nothing; only the trouble I have that I cannot be suffered to shew how much I honoured
her ladyship, as your sister.

Well, said he, you need not be afraid to tell me: I must love her after all; though I shall
not be pleased with her on this occasion. I know it is her love for me, though thus oddly expressed,
that makes her so uneasy: and, after all, she comes, I'm sure, to be reconciled to me; though
it must be through a good hearty quarrel first: for she can shew a good deal of sunshine; but
it must be always after a storm; and I'll love her dearly, if she has not been, and will not
be, too hard upon my dearest.

Mr. Peters said, Sir, you are very good, and very kind; I love to see this complaisance to
your sister, though she be in fault, so long as you can shew it with so much justice to the
sweetest innocence and merit in the world. By all that's good, Mr. Peters, said he, I'd present
my sister with a thousand pounds, if she would kindly take my dear Pamela by the hand, and
wish her joy, and call her sister!--And yet I should be unworthy of the dear creature that
smiles upon me there, if it was not principally for her sake, and the pleasure it would give
her, that I say this: for I will never be thoroughly reconciled to my sister till she does;
for I most sincerely think, as to myself, that my dear wife, there she sits, does me more honour
in her new relation, than she receives from me.

Sir, said I, I am overwhelmed with your goodness!--And my eyes were filled with tears of joy
and gratitude: and all the company with one voice blessed him. And Lady Jones was pleased to
say, The behaviour of you two happy ones, to each other, is the most edifying I ever knew.
I am always improved when I see you. How happy would every good lady be with such a gentleman,
and every good gentleman with such a lady!--In short, you seem made for one another.

O madam, said I, you are so kind, so good to me, that I know not how to thank you enough!--Said
she, You deserve more than I can express; for, to all that know your story, you are a matchless
person. You are an ornament to our sex and your virtue, though Mr. B---- is so generous as
he is, has met with no more than its due reward. God long bless you together!

You are, said my dearest sir, very good to me, madam, I am sure. I have taken liberties in
my former life, that deserved not so much excellence. I have offended extremely, by trials
glorious to my Pamela, but disgraceful to me, against a virtue that I now consider as almost
sacred; and I shall not think I deserve her, till I can bring my manners, my sentiments, and
my actions, to a conformity with her own. In short, my Pamela, continued he, I want you to
be nothing but what you are, and have been. You cannot be better; and if you could, it would
be but filling me with despair to attain the awful heights of virtue at which you have arrived.
Perhaps, added the dear gentleman, the scene I have beheld within these twelve hours, has made
me more serious than otherwise I should have been: but I'll assure you, before all this good
company, I speak the sentiments of my heart, and those not of this day only.

What a happy daughter is yours, O my dear father and mother! I owe it all to God's grace, and
to yours and my good lady's instructions: And to these let me always look back with grateful
acknowledgments, that I may not impute to myself, and be proud, my inexpressible happiness.

The company were so kindly pleased with our concern, and my dear master's goodness, that he,
observing their indulgence, and being himself curious to know the further particulars of what
had passed between my lady and me, repeated his question, What she had called me besides wench
and creature? And I said, My lady, supposing I was wicked, lamented over me, very kindly, my
depravity and fall, and said, What a thousand pities it was, so much virtue, as she was pleased
to say, was so destroyed; and that I had yielded, after so noble a stand! as she said.

Excuse me, gentlemen and ladies, said I! you know my story, it seems; and I am commanded, by
one who has a title to all my obedience, to proceed.

They gave all of them bows of approbation, that they might not interrupt me; and I continued
my story--the men-servants withdrawing, at a motion of Mr. B----, on my looking towards them:
and then, at Lady Darnford's coming in, I proceeded.

I told her ladyship, that I was still innocent, and would be so, and it was injurious to suppose
me otherwise. Why, tell me, wench, said she--But I think I must not tell you what she said.
Yes, do, said my master, to clear my sister; we shall think it very bad else.

I held my hand before my face--Why, she said, Tell me, wench, hast thou not been--hesitating--a
very free creature with thy master? That she said, or to that effect--And when I said, She
asked strange questions, and in strange words, she ridiculed my delicacy, as she called it;
and said, My niceness would not last long. She said, I must know I was not really married,
that my ring was only a sham, and all was my cunning to cloak my yielding, and get better terms.
She said, She knew the world as much at thirty-two, as I did at sixteen; and bid me remember that.

I took the liberty to say, (but I got a good way off,) that I scorned her ladyship's words,
and was as much married as her ladyship. And then I had certainly been cuffed, if her woman
had not interposed, and told her I was not worthy her anger; and that I was as much to be pitied
for my credulity, as despised for my vanity.

My poor Pamela, said my master, this was too, too hard upon you! O sir, said I, how much easier
it was to me than if it had been so!--That would have broken my heart quite!--For then I should
have deserved it all, and worse; and these reproaches, added to my own guilt, would have made
me truly wretched!

Lady Darnford, at whose right-hand I sat, kissed me with a kind of rapture, and called me a
sweet exemplar for all my sex. Mr. Peters said very handsome things; so did Mr. Perry and Sir
Simon, with tears in his eyes, said to my master, Why, neighbour, neighbour, this is excellent,
by my troth. I believe there is something in virtue, that we had not well considered. On my
soul, there has been but one angel come down for these thousand years, and you have got her.

Well, my dearest, said my master, pray proceed with your story until, we have done supper,
since the ladies seem pleased with it. Why, sir, said I, her ladyship went on in the same manner;
but said, one time, (and held me by the hand,) she would give me an hundred guineas for one
provoking word; or, if I would but say I believed myself married, that she might fell me at
her foot: But, sir, you must not be angry with her ladyship. She called me painted dirt, baby-face,
waiting-maid, beggar's brat, and beggar-born; but I said, As long as I knew my innocence, I
was easy in every thing, but to have my dear parents abused. They were never beggars, nor beholden
to any body; nor to any thing but God's grace and their own labour; that they once lived in
credit; that misfortunes might befall any body; and that I could not bear they should be treated
so undeservedly.

Then her ladyship said, Ay, she supposed my master's folly would make us set up for a family,
and that the heralds' office would shortly be searched to make it out.

Exactly my sister again! said he. So you could not please her any way?

No, indeed, sir. When she commanded me to fill her a glass of wine, and would not let her woman
do it, she asked, If I was above it? This quite astonished her ladyship; and a little before,
her kinsman brought me the bottle and glass, and required me to fill it for my lady, at her
command, and called himself my deputy: And I said, 'Tis in a good hand; help my lady yourself.
So, sir, added I, you see I could be a little saucy upon occasion.

You please me well, my Pamela, said he. This was quite right. But proceed.

Her ladyship said, She was astonished! adding, She supposed I would have her look upon me as
her brother's wife: And asked me, What, in the name of impudence, possessed me, to dare to
look upon myself as her sister? And I said, That was a question better became her most worthy
brother to answer, than me. And then I thought I should have had her ladyship upon me; but
her woman interposed.

I afterwards told Mrs. Jewkes, at the window, that since I was hindered from going to you,
I believed it was best to let Robert go with the chariot, and say, Lady Davers was come, and
I could not leave her ladyship. But this did not please; and I thought it would too; for she
said, No, no, he'll think I make the creature my companion, and know not how to part with her.

Exactly, said he, my sister again.

And she said, I knew nothing what belonged to people of condition; how should I?--What shall
I say, madam? said I. Nothing at all, answered she; let him expect his dearest love, alluding
to your kind epithet in your letter, and be disappointed; it is but adding a few more hours
to this heavy absence, and every one will become a day in his amorous account.

So, to be short, I saw nothing was to be done; and I feared, sir, you would wonder at my stay,
and be angry; and I watched my opportunity, till my lady, who was walking about the room, was
at the further end; and the parlour being a ground-floor, in a manner, I jumped out at the
window, and ran for it.

Her ladyship called after me; so did her woman; and I heard her say, I flew like a bird; and
she called two of her servants in sight to stop me; but I said, Touch me at your peril, fellows!
And Mr. Colbrand, having been planted at hand by Mrs. Jewkes, (who was very good in the whole
affair, and incurred her ladyship's displeasure, once or twice, by taking my part,) seeing
how I was used, put on a fierce look, cocked his hat with one hand, and put t'other on his
sword, and said, he would chine the man who offered to touch his lady. And so he ran alongside
of me, and could hardly keep pace with me:--And here, my dear sir, concluded I, I am, at yours
and the good company's service.

They seemed highly pleased with my relation; and my master said, he was glad Mrs. Jewkes behaved
so well, as also Mr. Colbrand. Yes, sir, said I: when Mrs. Jewkes interposed once, her ladyship
said, It was hard, she, who was born in that house, could not have some privilege in it, without
being talked to by the saucy servants. And she called her another time fat-face, and womaned
her most violently.

Well, said my master, I am glad, my dear, you have had such an escape. My sister was always
passionate, as Mrs. Peters knows: And my poor mother had enough to do with us both. For we
neither of us wanted spirit: and when I was a boy, I never came home from school or college
for a few days, but though we longed to see one another before, yet ere the first day was over,
we had a quarrel; for she, being seven years older than I, was always for domineering over
me, and I could not bear it. And I used, on her frequently quarrelling with the maids, and
being always at a word and a blow, to call her Captain Bab; for her name is Barbara. And when
my Lord Davers courted her, my poor mother has made up quarrels between them three times in
a day; and I used to tell her, she would certainly beat her husband, marry whom she would,
if he did not beat her first, and break her spirit.

Yet has she, continued he, very good qualities. She was a dutiful daughter, is a good wife;
she is bountiful to her servants, firm in her friendships, charitable to the poor, and, I believe,
never any sister better loved a brother, than she me: and yet she always loved to vex and tease
me; and as I would bear a resentment longer than she, she'd be one moment the most provoking
creature in the world, and the next would do any thing to be forgiven; and I have made her,
when she was the aggressor, follow me all over the house and garden to be upon good terms with me.

But this case piques her more, because she had found out a match for me in the family of a
person of quality, and had set her heart upon bringing it to effect, and had even proceeded
far in it, without my knowledge, and brought me into the lady's company, unknowing of her design.
But I was then averse to matrimony upon any terms; and was angry at her proceeding in it so
far without my privity or encouragement: And she cannot, for this reason, bear the thoughts
of my being now married, and to her mother's waiting-maid too, as she reminds my dear Pamela,
when I had declined her proposal with the daughter of a noble earl.

This is the whole case, said he; and, allowing for the pride and violence of her spirit, and
that she knows not, as I do, the transcendent excellencies of my dear Pamela, and that all
her view, in her own conception, is mine and the family honour, she is a little to be allowed
for: Though, never fear, my Pamela, but that I, who never had a struggle with her, wherein
I did not get the better, will do you justice, and myself too.

This account of Lady Davers pleased every body, and was far from being to her ladyship's disadvantage
in the main; and I would do any thing in the world to have the honour to be in her good graces:
Yet I fear it will not be easily, if at all, effected. But I will proceed.

After supper, nothing would serve Miss Darnford and Miss Boroughs, but we must have a dance;
and Mr. Peters, who plays a good fiddle, urged it forward. My dear master, though in a riding-dress,
took out Miss Boroughs.

Sir Simon, for a man of his years, danced well, and took me out; but put on one of his free
jokes, that I was fitter to dance with a younger man; and he would have it, (though I had not
danced since my dear lady's death to signify, except once or twice to please Mrs. Jervis, and,
indeed, believed all my dancing days over,) that as my master and I were the best dancers,
we should dance once together, before folks, as the odd gentleman said; and my dear sir was
pleased to oblige him: And afterwards danced with Miss Darnford, who has much more skill and
judgment than I; though they compliment me with an easier shape and air.

We left the company with great difficulty at about eleven, my dear master having been up all
night before, and we being at the greatest distance from home; though they seemed inclinable
not to break up so soon, as they were neighbours; and the ladies said, They longed to hear
what would be the end of Lady Davers's interview with her brother.

My master said, He feared we must not now think of going next day to Bedfordshire, as we had
intended; and perhaps might see them again. And so we took leave, and set out for home; where
we arrived not till twelve o'clock; and found Lady Davers had gone to bed about eleven, wanting
sadly that we should come home first; but so did not I.

Mrs. Jewkes told us, That my lady was sadly fretted that I had got away so; and seemed a little
apprehensive of what I would say of the usage I had received from her. She asked Mrs. Jewkes,
if she thought I was really married? And Mrs. Jewkes telling her yes, she fell into a passion,
and said, Begone, bold woman, I cannot bear thee! See not my face till I send for thee! Thou
hast been very impudent to me once or twice to-day already, and art now worse than ever. She
said, She would not have told her ladyship, if she had not asked her; and was sorry she had
offended.

She sent for her at supper time: Said she, I have another question to ask thee, woman, and
tell me yes, if thou darest. Was ever any thing so odd?--Why then, said Mrs. Jewkes, I will
say No, before your ladyship speaks.--My master laughed: Poor woman! said he.--She called her
insolent, and assurance; and said, Begone, bold woman as thou art!--but come hither. Dost thou
know if that young harlot is to be with my brother to-night?

She said she knew not what to answer, because she had threatened her if she said yes. But at
last my lady said, I will know the bottom of this iniquity. I suppose they won't have so much
impudence to be together while I'm in the house; but I dare say they have been bed-fellows.

Said she, I will lie to-night in the room I was born in; so get that bed ready. That room being
our bedchamber, Mrs. Jewkes, after some hesitation, replied, Madam, my master lies there, and
has the key. I believe, woman, said she, thou tellest me a story. Indeed, madam, said she,
he does; and has some papers there he will let nobody see; for Mrs. Jewkes said, she feared
she would beat her if she went up, and found by my clothes, and some of my master's, how it was.

So she said, I will then lie in the best room, as it is called; and Jackey shall lie in the
little green room adjoining to it. Has thy master got the keys of those?--No, madam, said Mrs.
Jewkes: I will order them to be made ready for your ladyship.

And where dost thou lay they pursy sides? said she. Up two pair of stairs, madam, next the
garden. And where lies the young harlotry? continued she. Sometimes with me, madam, said she.
And sometimes with thy virtuous master, I suppose? said my lady.--Ha, woman! what sayest thou?
I must not speak, said Mrs. Jewkes. Well, thou mayest go, said she; but thou hast the air of
a secret keeper of that sort I dare say thoul't set the good work forward most cordially. Poor
Mrs. Jewkes, said my master, and laughed most heartily.

This talk we had whilst we were undressing. So she and her woman lay together in the room my
master lay in before I was happy.

I said, Dear sir, pray, in the morning let me lock myself up in the closet, as soon as you
rise; and not be called down for ever so much; for I am afraid to see her ladyship: And I will
employ myself about my journal, while these things are in my head. Don't be afraid, my dear,
said he: Am not I with you?

Mrs. Jewkes pitied me for what I had undergone in the day; and I said, We won't make the worst
of it to my dear master, because we won't exasperate where we would reconcile: but, added I,
I am much obliged to you, Mrs. Jewkes, and I thank you. Said my master, I hope she did not
beat your lady, Mrs. Jewkes? Not much, sir, said she; but I believe I saved my lady once: Yet,
added she, I was most vexed at the young lord. Ay, Mrs. Jewkes, said my master, let me know
his behaviour. I can chastise him, though I cannot my sister, who is a woman; let me therefore
know the part he acted.

Nothing, my dear sir, said I, but impertinence, if I may so say, and foolishness, that was
very provoking; but I spared him not; and so there is no room, sir, for your anger. No, sir,
said Mrs. Jewkes, nothing else indeed.

How was her woman? said my master. Pretty impertinent, replied Mrs. Jewkes, as ladies' women
will be. But, said I, you know she saved me once or twice. Very true, madam, returned Mrs.
Jewkes. And she said to me at table, that you were a sweet creature; she never saw your equal;
but that you had a spirit; and she was sorry you answered her lady so, who never bore so much
contradiction before. I told her, added Mrs. Jewkes, that if I was in your ladyship's place,
I should have taken much more upon me, and that you were all sweetness. And she said, I was
got over, she saw.

Tuesday morning, the sixth of my happiness.

My master had said to Mrs. Jewkes, that he should not rise till eight or nine, as he had sat
up all the night before: but it seems, my lady, knowing he usually rose about six, got up soon
after that hour; raised her woman and her nephew; having a whimsical scheme in her head, to
try to find whether we were in bed together: And, about half an hour after six, she rapped
at our chamber door.

My master was waked at the noise, and asked, Who was there? Open the door, said she; open it
this minute! I said, clinging about his neck, Dear, dear sir, pray, pray don't!--O save me,
save me! Don't fear, Pamela, said he. The woman's mad, I believe.

But he called out; Who are you? What do you want?--You know my voice well enough, said she:--I
will come in.--Pray, sir, said I, don't let her ladyship in.--Don't be frightened, my dear,
said he; she thinks we are not married, and are afraid to be found a-bed together. I'll let
her in; but she shan't come near my dearest.

So he slipt out of bed, and putting on some of his clothes, and gown and slippers, he said,
What bold body dare disturb my repose thus? and opened the door. In rushed she: I'll see your
wickedness, said she, I will! In vain shall you think to hide it from me.--What should I hide?
said he. How dare you set a foot into my house, after the usage I have received from you?--I
had covered myself over head and ears, and trembled every joint. He looked, and 'spied her
woman and kinsman in the room, she crying out, Bear witness, Jackey; bear witness, Beck; the
creature is now in his bed! And not seeing the young gentleman before, who was at the feet
of the bed, he said, How now, sir? What's your business in this apartment? Begone this moment!--And
he went away directly.

Beck, said my lady, you see the creature is in his bed. I do, madam, answered she. My master
came to me, and said, Ay, look, Beck, and bear witness: Here is my Pamela!--My dear angel,
my lovely creature, don't be afraid; look up, and see how frantickly this woman of quality behaves.

At that, I just peeped, and saw my lady, who could not bear this, coming to me; and she said,
Wicked abandoned wretch! Vile brother, to brave me thus! I'll tear the creature out of bed
before your face, and expose you both as you deserve.

At that he took her in his arms, as if she had been nothing; and carrying her out of the room,
she cried out, Beck! Beck! help me, Beck! the wretch is going to fling me down stairs! Her
woman ran to him, and said, Good sir, for Heaven's sake do no violence to my lady! Her ladyship
has been ill all night.

He sat her down in the chamber she lay in, and she could not speak for passion. Take care of
your lady, said he; and when she has rendered herself more worthy of my attention, I'll see
her; till then, at her peril, and yours too, come not near my apartment. And so he came to
me, and, with all the sweet soothing words in the world, pacified my fears, and gave me leave
to go to write in my closet, as soon as my fright was over, and to stay there till things were
more calm. And so he dressed himself, and went out of the chamber, permitting me, at my desire,
to fasten the door after him.

At breakfast-time my master tapped at the door, and I said, Who's there? I, my dearest, said
he. Oh! then, replied I, I will open it with pleasure. I had written on a good deal; but I
put it by, when I ran to the door. I would have locked it again, when he was in; but he said,
Am not I here? Don't be afraid. Said he, Will you come down to breakfast, my love? O no, dear
sir, said I; be pleased to excuse me! said he, I cannot bear the look of it, that the mistress
of my house should breakfast in her closet, as if she durst not come down, and I at home!--O,
dearest sir, replied I, pray pass that over, for my sake; and don't let my presence aggravate
your sister, for a kind punctilio! Then, my dear, said he, I will breakfast with you here.
No, pray, dear sir, answered I, breakfast with your sister. That, my dear, replied he, will
too much gratify her pride, and look like a slight to you.--Dear sir, said I, your goodness
is too great, for me to want punctilious proofs of it. Pray oblige her ladyship. She is your
guest surely, sir, you may be freest with your dutiful wife!

She is a strange woman, said he: How I pity her!--She has thrown herself into a violent fit
of the colic, through passion: And is but now, her woman says, a little easier. I hope, sir,
said I, when you carried her ladyship out, you did not hurt her. No, replied he, I love her
too well. I set her down in the apartment she had chosen: and she but now desires to see me,
and that I will breakfast with her, or refuses to touch any thing. But, if my dearest please,
I will insist it shall be with you at the same time.

O, no, no, dear sir! said I; I should not forgive myself, if I did. I would on my knees beg
her ladyship's goodness to me, now I am in your presence; though I thought I ought to carry
it a little stiff when you were absent, for the sake of the honour you have done me. And, dear
sir, if my deepest humility will please, permit me to shew it.

You shall do nothing, returned he, unworthy of my wife, to please the proud woman!--But I will,
however, permit you to breakfast by yourself this once, as I have not seen her since I have
used her in so barbarous a manner, as I understand she exclaims I have; and as she will not
eat any thing, unless I give her my company.--So he saluted me, and withdrew; and I locked
the door after him again for fear.

Mrs. Jewkes soon after rapped at the door. Who's there? said I. Only I, madam. So I opened
the door. 'Tis a sad thing, madam, said she, you should be so much afraid in your own house.
She brought me some chocolate and toast; and I asked her about my lady's behaviour. She said,
she would not suffer any body to attend but her woman, because she would not be heard what
she had to say; but she believed, she said, her master was very angry with the young lord,
as she called her kinsman; for, as she passed by the door, she heard him say, in a high tone,
I hope, sir, you did not forget what belongs to the character you assume; or to that effect.

About one o'clock my master came up again, and he said, Will you come down to dinner, Pamela,
when I send for you? Whatever you command, sir, I must do. But my lady won't desire to see
me. No matter whether she will or no. But I will not suffer, that she shall prescribe her insolent
will to my wife, and in your own house too.--I will, by my tenderness to you, mortify her pride;
and it cannot be done so well as to her face.

Dearest sir, said I, pray indulge me, and let me dine here by myself. It will make my lady
but more inveterate.--Said he, I have told her we are married. She is out of all patience about
it, and yet pretends not to believe it. Upon that I tell her, Then she shall have it her own
way, and that I am not. And what has she to do with it either way? She has scolded and begged,
commanded and prayed, blessed me, and cursed me, by turns, twenty times in these few hours.
And I have sometimes soothed her, sometimes raged; and at last left her, and took a turn in
the garden for an hour to compose myself, because you should not see how the foolish woman
has ruffled me; and just now I came out, seeing her coming in.

Just as he had said so, I cried, Oh! my lady, my lady! for I heard her voice in the chamber,
saying, Brother, brother, one word with you--stopping in sight of the closet where I was. He
stepped out, and she went up to the window that looks towards the garden, and said, Mean fool
that I am, to follow you up and down the house in this manner, though I am shunned and avoided
by you! You a brother!--You a barbarian! Is it possible we could be born of one mother?

Why, said he, do you charge me with a conduct to you, that you bring upon yourself?--Is it
not surprising that you should take the liberty with me, that the dear mother you have named
never gave you an example for to any of her relations?--Was it not sufficient, that I was insolently
taken to task by you in your letters, but my retirements must be invaded? My house insulted?
And, if I have one person dearer to me than another, that that person must be singled out for
an object of your violence?

Ay, said she, that one person is the thing!--But though I came with a resolution to be temperate,
and to expostulate with you on your avoiding me so unkindly, yet cannot I have patience to
look upon that bed in which I was born, and to be made the guilty scene of your wickedness
with such a----

Hush! said he, I charge you! call not the dear girl by any name unworthy of her. You know not,
as I told you, her excellence; and I desire you'll not repeat the freedoms you have taken below.

She stamped with her foot, and said, God give me patience! So much contempt to a sister that
loves you so well; and so much tenderness to a vile----

He put his hand before her mouth: Be silent, said he, once more, I charge you! You know not
the innocence you abuse so freely. I ought not, neither will I bear it.

She sat down and fanned herself, and burst into tears, and such sobs of grief, or rather passion,
that grieved me to hear; and I sat and trembled sadly.

He walked about the room in great anger; and at last said, Let me ask you, Lady Davers, why
I am thus insolently to be called to account by you? Am I not independent? Am I not of age?
Am I not at liberty to please myself?--Would to God, that, instead of a woman, and my sister,
any man breathing had dared, whatever were his relation under that of a father, to give himself
half the airs you have done!--Why did you not send on this accursed errand your lord, who could
write me such a letter as no gentleman should write, nor any gentleman tamely receive? He should
have seen the difference.

We all know, said she, that, since your Italian duel, you have commenced a bravo; and all your
airs breathe as strongly of the manslayer as of the libertine. This, said he, I will bear;
for I have no reason to be ashamed of that duel, nor the cause of it; since it was to save
a friend, and because it is levelled at myself only: but suffer not your tongue to take too
great a liberty with my Pamela.

She interrupted him in a violent burst of passion. If I bear this, said she, I can bear any
thing!--O the little strumpet!--He interrupted her then, and said wrathfully, Begone, rageful
woman! begone this moment from my presence! Leave my house this instant!--I renounce you, and
all relation to you! and never more let me see your face, or call me brother! And took her
by the hand to lead her out. She laid hold of the curtains of the window, and said, I will
not go! You shall not force me from you thus ignominiously in the wretch's hearing, and suffer
her to triumph over me in your barbarous treatment of me.

Not considering any thing, I ran out of the closet, and threw myself at my dear master's feet,
as he held her hand, in order to lead her out; and I said, Dearest sir, let me beg, that no
act of unkindness, for my sake, pass between so worthy and so near relations. Dear, dear madam,
said I, and clasped her knees, pardon and excuse the unhappy cause of all this evil; on my
knees I beg your ladyship to receive me to your grace and favour, and you shall find me incapable
of any triumph but in your ladyship's goodness to me.

Creature, said she, art thou to beg an excuse for me?--Art thou to implore my forgiveness?
Is it to thee I am to owe the favour, that I am not cast headlong from my brother's presence?
Begone to thy corner, wench! begone, I say, lest thy paramour kill me for trampling thee under
my foot!

Rise, my dear Pamela, said my master; rise, dear life of my life; and expose not so much worthiness
to the ungrateful scorn of so violent a spirit. And so he led me to my closet again, and there
I sat and wept.

Her woman came up, just as he had led me to my closet, and was returning to her lady; and she
very humbly said, Excuse my intrusion, good sir!--I hope I may come to my lady. Yes, Mrs. Worden,
said he, you may come in; and pray take your lady down stairs with you, for fear I should too
much forget what belongs either to my sister or myself!

I began to think (seeing her ladyship so outrageous with her brother) what a happy escape I
had had the day before, though hardly enough used in conscience too, as I thought.

Her woman begged her ladyship to walk down; and she said, Beck, seest thou that bed? That was
the bed that I was born in; and yet that was the bed thou sawest, as well as I, the wicked
Pamela in, this morning, and this brother of mine just risen from her!

True, said he; you both saw it, and it is my pride that you could see it. 'Tis my bridal bed;
and 'tis abominable that the happiness I knew before you came hither, should be so barbarously
interrupted.

Swear to me but, thou bold wretch! said she, swear to me, that Pamela Andrews is really and
truly thy lawful wife, without sham, without deceit, without double-meaning; and I know what
I have to say!

I'll humour you for once, said he; and then swore a solemn oath that I was. And, said he, did
I not tell you so at first?

I cannot yet believe you, said she; because, in this particular, I had rather have called you
knave than fool.--Provoke me not too much, said he; for, if I should as much forget myself
as you have done, you'd have no more of a brother in me, than I have a sister in you.

Who married you? said she: tell me that! Was it not a broken attorney in a parson's habit?
Tell me truly, in the wench's hearing. When she's undeceived, she'll know how to behave herself
better! Thank God, thought I, it is not so.

No, said he; and I'll tell you, that I bless God, I abhorred that project, before it was brought
to bear: and Mr. Williams married us.--Nay then, said she--but answer me another question or
two, I beseech you: Who gave her away? Parson Peters, said he. Where was the ceremony performed?
In my little chapel, which you may see, as it was put in order on purpose.

Now, said she, I begin to fear there is something in it! But who was present? said she. Methinks,
replied he, I look like a fine puppy, to suffer myself to be thus interrogated by an insolent
sister: but, if you must know, Mrs. Jewkes was present. O the procuress! said she: But nobody
else? Yes, said he, all my heart and soul!

Wretch! said she; and what would thy father and mother have said, had they lived to this day?
Their consents, replied he, I should have thought it my duty to ask; but not yours, madam.

Suppose, said she, I had married my father's groom! what would you have said to that?--I could
not have behaved worse, replied he, than you have done. And would you not have thought, said
she, I had deserved it.

Said he, Does your pride let you see no difference in the case you put? None at all, said she.
Where can the difference be between a beggar's son married by a lady, or a beggar's daughter
made a gentleman's wife?

Then I'll tell you, replied he; the difference is, a man ennobles the woman he takes, be she
who she will; and adopts her into his own rank, be it what it will: but a woman, though ever
so nobly born, debases herself by a mean marriage, and descends from her own rank to his she
stoops to.

When the royal family of Stuart allied itself into the low family of Hyde, (comparatively low,
I mean,) did any body scruple to call the lady, Royal Highness, and Duchess of York? And did
any body think her daughters, the late Queen Mary and Queen Anne, less royal for that?

When the broken-fortuned peer goes into the city to marry a rich tradesman's daughter, be he
duke or earl, does not his consort immediately become ennobled by his choice? and who scruples
to call her lady, duchess, or countess?

But when a duchess or countess dowager descends to mingle with a person of obscure birth, does
she not then degrade herself? and is she not effectually degraded? And will any duchess or
countess rank with her?

Now, Lady Davers, do you not see a difference between my marrying my dear mother's beloved
and deserving waiting-maid, with a million of excellencies about her, and such graces of mind
and person as would adorn any distinction; and your marrying a sordid groom, whose constant
train of education, conversation, and opportunities, could possibly give him no other merit,
than that which must proceed from the vilest, lowest taste, in his sordid dignifier?

O the wretch! said she, how he finds excuses to palliate his meanness!

Again, said he, let me observe to you, Lady Davers, When a duke marries a private person, is
he not still her head, by virtue of being her husband? But, when a lady descends to marry a
groom, is not the groom her head, being her husband? And does not the difference strike you?
For what lady of quality ought to respect another, who has made so sordid a choice, and set
a groom above her? For, would not that be to put that groom upon a par with themselves?--Call
this palliation, or what you will; but if you see not the difference, you are blind; and a
very unfit judge for yourself, much more unfit to be a censurer of me.

I'd have you, said she, publish your fine reasons to the world, and they will be sweet encouragements
to all the young gentlemen who read them to cast themselves away on the servant-wenches in
their families.

Not at all, Lady Davers, replied he: For, if any young gentleman stays till he finds such a
person as my Pamela, so enriched with the beauties of person and mind, so well accomplished,
and so fitted to adorn the degree she is raised to, he will stand as easily acquitted, as I
shall be to all the world that sees her, except there be many more Lady Davers than I apprehend
can possibly be met with.

And so, returned she, you say you are actually and really married, honestly, or rather foolishly
married, to this slut?

I am, indeed, says he, if you presume to call her so! And why should I not, if I please? Who
is there ought to contradict me? Whom have I hurt by it?--Have I not an estate, free and independent?--Am
I likely to be beholden to you, or any of my relations? And why, when I have a sufficiency
in my own single hands, should I scruple to make a woman equally happy, who has all I want?
For beauty, virtue, prudence, and generosity too, I will tell you, she has more than any lady
I ever saw. Yes, Lady Davers, she has all these naturally; they are born with her; and a few
years' education, with her genius, has done more for her, than a whole life has done for others.

No more, no more, I beseech you, said she; thou surfeitest me, honest man! with thy weak folly.
Thou art worse than an idolater; thou hast made a graven image, and thou fallest down and worshippest
the works of thy own hands; and, Jeroboam-like, wouldst have every body else bow down before
thy calf!

Well said, Lady Davers! Whenever your passion suffers you to descend to witticism; 'tis almost
over with you. But let me tell you, though I myself worship this sweet creature, that you call
such names, I want nobody else to do it; and should be glad you had not intruded upon me, to
interrupt me in the course of our mutual happiness.

Well said, well said, my kind, my well-mannered brother! said she. I shall, after this, very
little interrupt your mutual happiness, I'll assure you. I thought you a gentleman once, and
prided myself in my brother: But I'll say now with the burial service, Ashes to ashes, and
dirt to dirt!

Ay, said he, Lady Davers, and there we must all end at last; you with all your pride, and I
with my plentiful fortune, must come to it; and then where will be your distinction? Let me
tell you, except you and I both mend our manners, though you have been no duellist, no libertine,
as you call me, this amiable girl, whom your vanity and folly so much despise, will out-soar
us both, infinitely out-soar us; and he who judges best, will give the preference where due,
without regard to birth or fortune.

Egregious preacher! said she: What, my brother already turned Puritan!--See what marriage and
repentance may bring a man to! I heartily congratulate this change!--Well, said she, (and came
towards me, and I trembled to see her coming; but her brother followed to observe her, and
I stood up at her approach, and she said,) give me thy hand, Mrs. Pamela, Mrs. Andrews, Mrs.
what shall I call thee?--Thou hast done wonders in a little time; thou hast not only made a
rake a husband but thou hast made a rake a preacher! But take care, added she, after all, in
ironical anger, and tapped me on the neck, take care that thy vanity begins not where his ends;
and that thou callest not thyself my sister.

She shall, I hope, Lady Davers, said he, when she can make as great a convert of you from pride,
as she has of me, from libertinism.

Mrs. Jewkes just then came up, and said dinner was ready. Come, my Pamela, said my dear master;
you desired to be excused from breakfasting with us; but I hope you'll give Lady Davers and
me your company to dinner.

How dare you insult me thus? said my lady.--How dare you, said he, insult me by your conduct
in my own house, after I have told you I am married? How dare you think of staying here one
moment, and refuse my wife the honours that belong to her as such?

Merciful God! said she, give me patience! and held her hand to her forehead.

Pray, sir, dear sir, said I, excuse me, don't vex my lady:--Be silent, my dear love, said he;
you see already what you have got by your sweet condescension. You have thrown yourself at
her feet, and, insolent as she is, she has threatened to trample upon you. She'll ask you,
presently, if she is to owe her excuse to your interposition? and yet nothing else can make
her forgiven.

Poor lady, she could not bear this; and, as if she was discomposed, she ran to her poor grieved
woman, and took hold of her hand, and said, Lead me down, lead me down, Beck! Let us instantly
quit this house, this cursed house, that once I took pleasure in! Order the fellows to get
ready, and I will never see it, nor its owner, more. And away she went down stairs, in a great
hurry. And the servants were ordered to make ready for their departure.

I saw my master was troubled, and I went to him, and said, Pray, dear sir, follow my lady down,
and pacify her. 'Tis her love to you.--Poor woman! said he, I am concerned for her! But I insist
upon your coming down, since things are gone so far. Her pride will get new strength else,
and we shall be all to begin again.

Dearest, dear sir, said I, excuse my going down this once! Indeed, my dear, I won't, replied
he. What! shall it be said, that my sister shall scare my wife from my table, and I present?--No,
I have borne too much already; and so have you: And I charge you come down when I send for you.

He departed, saying these words, and I durst not dispute; for I saw he was determined. And
there is as much majesty as goodness in him, as I have often had reason to observe; though
never more than on the present occasion with his sister. Her ladyship instantly put on her
hood and gloves, and her woman tied up a handkerchief full of things; for her principal matters
were not unpacked; and her coachman got her chariot ready, and her footmen their horses; and
she appeared resolved to go. But her kinsman and Mr. Colbrand had taken a turn together, somewhere;
and she would not come in, but sat fretting on a seat in the fore-yard, with her woman by her;
and, at last, said to one of the footmen, Do you, James, stay to attend my nephew; and we'll
take the road we came.

Mrs. Jewkes went to her ladyship, and said, Your ladyship will be pleased to stay dinner; 'tis
just coming upon table? No, said she, I have enough of this house; I have indeed. But give
my service to your master, and I wish him happier than he has made me.

He had sent for me down, and I came, though unwillingly, and the cloth was laid in the parlour
I had jumped out of; and there was my master walking about it. Mrs. Jewkes came in, and asked,
if he pleased to have dinner brought in? for my lady would not come in, but desired her service,
and wished him happier than he had made her. He, seeing her at the window, when he went to
that side of the room, all ready to go, stept out to her, and said, Lady Davers, if I thought
you would not be hardened, rather than softened, by my civility, I would ask you to walk in;
and, at least, let your kinsman and servants dine before they go. She wept, and turned her
face from him, to hide it. He took her hand, and said, Come, sister, let me prevail upon you:
Walk in. No, said she, don't ask me.--I wish I could hate you, as much as you hate me!--You
do, said he, and a great deal more, I'll assure you; or else you'd not vex me as you do.--Come,
pray walk in. Don't ask me, said she. Her kinsman just then returned: Why, madam, said he,
your ladyship won't go till you have dined, I hope. No, Jackey, said she, I can't stay; I'm
an intruder here, it seems!--Think, said my master, of the occasion you gave for that word.
Your violent passions are the only intruders! Lay them aside, and never sister was dearer to
a brother. Don't say such another word, said she, I beseech you; for I am too easy to forgive
you any thing for one kind word!--You shall have one hundred, said he, nay, ten thousand, if
they will do, my dear sister. And, kissing her, he added, Pray give me your hand. John, said
he, put up the horses; you are all as welcome to me, for all your lady's angry with me, as
at any inn you can put up at. Come, Mr. H----, said he, lead your aunt in; for she won't permit
that honour to me.

This quite overcame her; and she said, giving her brother her hand, Yes, I will, and you shall
lead me any where! and kissed him. But don't think, said she, I can forgive you neither. And
so he led her into the parlour where I was. But, said she, why do you lead me to this wench?
'Tis my wife, my dear sister; and if you will not love her, yet don't forget common civilities
to her, for your own sake.

Pray, madam, said her kinsman, since your brother is pleased to own his marriage, we must not
forget common civilities, as Mr. B---- says. And, sir, added he, permit me to wish you joy.
Thank you, sir, said he. And may I? said he, looking at me. Yes, sir, replied my master. So
he saluted me, very complaisantly; and said, I vow to Gad, madam, I did not know this yesterday;
and if I was guilty of a fault, I beg your pardon.

My lady said, Thou'rt a good-natured foolish fellow; thou might'st have saved this nonsensical
parade, till I had given thee leave. Why, aunt, said he, if they are actually married, there's
no help for it; and we must not make mischief between man and wife.

But brother, said she, do you think I'll sit at table with the creature? No contemptuous names,
I beseech you, Lady Davers! I tell you she is really my wife; and I must be a villain to suffer
her to be ill used. She has no protector but me; and, if you will permit her, she will always
love and honour you.--Indeed, indeed I will, madam, said I.

I cannot, I won't sit down at table with her, said she: Pamela, I hope thou dost not think
I will?--Indeed, madam, said I, if your good brother will permit it, I will attend your chair
all the time you dine, to shew my veneration for your ladyship, as the sister of my kind protector.
See, said he, her condition has not altered her; but I cannot permit in her a conduct unworthy
of my wife; and I hope my sister will not expect it neither.

Let her leave the room, replied she, if I must stay. Indeed you are out of the way, aunt, said
her kinsman; that is not right, as things stand. Said my master, No, madam, that must not be;
but, if it must be so, we'll have two tables; you and your nephew shall sit at one, and my
wife and I at the other: and then see what a figure your unreasonable punctilio will make you
cut.--She seemed irresolute, and he placed her at the table; the first course, which was fish,
being brought in. Where, said she to me, would'st thou presume to sit? Would'st have me give
place to thee too, wench?--Come, come, said my master, I'll put that out of dispute; and so
set himself down by her ladyship, at the upper end of the table, and placed me at his left
hand. Excuse me, my dear, said he; this once excuse me!--Oh! your cursed complaisance, said
she, to such a----. Hush, sister! hush! said he: I will not bear to hear her spoken slightly
of! 'Tis enough, that, to oblige your violent and indecent caprice, you make me compromise
with you thus.

Come, sir, added he, pray take your place next your gentle aunt!--Beck, said she, do you sit
down by Pamela there, since it must be so; we'll be hail fellow all! With all my heart, replied
my master; I have so much honour for all the sex, that I would not have the meanest person
of it stand, while I sit, had I been to have made the custom. Mrs. Worden, pray sit down. Sir,
said she, I hope I shall know my place better.

My lady sat considering; and then, lifting up her hands, said, Lord! what will this world come
to?--To nothing but what's very good, replied my master, if such spirits as Lady Davers's do
but take the rule of it. Shall I help you, sister, to some of the carp? Help your beloved!
said she. That's kind! said he.--Now, that's my good Lady Davers! Here, my love, let me help
you, since my sister desires it.--Mighty well, returned she, mighty well!--But sat on one side,
turning from me, as it were.

Dear aunt, said her kinsman, let's see you buss and be friends: since 'tis so, what signifies
it? Hold thy fool's tongue! said she: Is thy tone so soon turned since yesterday? said my master,
I hope nothing affronting was offered yesterday to my wife, in her own house. She hit him a
good smart slap on the shoulder: Take that, impudent brother said she. I'll wife you, and in
her own house! She seemed half afraid: but he, in very good humour, kissed her, and said, I
thank you, sister, I thank you. But I have not had a blow from you before for some time!

'Fore gad, said her kinsman, 'tis very kind of you to take it so well. Her ladyship is as good
a woman as ever lived; but I've had many a cuff from her myself.

I won't put it up neither, said my master, except you'll assure me you have seen her serve
her lord so.

I pressed my foot to his, and said, softly, Don't, dear sir!--What! said she, is the creature
begging me off from insult? If his manners won't keep him from outraging me, I won't owe his
forebearance to thee, wench.

Said my master, and put some fish on my lady's plate, Well does Lady Davers use the word insult!--But,
come, let me see you eat one mouthful, and I'll forgive you; and he put the knife in one of
her hands, and the fork in the other. As I hope to live, said he, I cannot bear this silly
childishness, for nothing at all! I am quite ashamed of it.

She put a little bit to her mouth, but laid it down in her plate again: I cannot eat, said
she; I cannot swallow, I'm sure. It will certainly choak me. He had forbid his menservants
to come in, that they might not behold the scene he expected; and rose from table himself,
and filled a glass of wine, her woman offering, and her kinsman rising, to do it. Mean-time,
his seat between us being vacant, she turned to me: How now, confidence, said she, darest thou
sit next me? Why dost thou not rise, and take the glass from thy property?

Sit still, my dear, said he; I'll help you both. But I arose; for I was afraid of a good cuff;
and said, Pray, sir, let me help my lady. So you shall, replied he, when she's in a humour
to receive it as she ought. Sister, said he, with a glass in his hand, pray drink; you'll perhaps
eat a little bit of something then. Is this to insult me? said she.--No, really, returned he:
but to incite you to eat; for you'll be sick for want of it.

She took the glass, and said, God forgive you, wicked wretch, for your usage of me this day!--This
is a little as it used to be!--I once had your love;--and now it is changed; and for whom?
that vexes me! And wept so, she was forced to set down the glass.

You don't do well, said he. You neither treat me like your brother nor a gentleman; and if
you would suffer me, I would love you as well as ever.--But for a woman of sense and understanding,
and a fine-bred woman, as I once thought my sister, you act quite a childish part. Come, added
he, and held the glass to her lips, let your brother, that you once loved, prevail on you to
drink this glass of wine.--She then drank it. He kissed her, and said, Oh! how passion deforms
the noblest minds! You have lost a good deal of that loveliness that used to adorn my sister.
And let me persuade you to compose yourself, and be my sister again!--For Lady Davers is, indeed,
a fine woman; and has a presence as majestic for a lady, as her dear brother has for a gentleman.

He then sat down between us again, and said, when the second course came in, Let Abraham come
in and wait. I touched his toe again; but he minded it not; and I saw he was right; for her
ladyship began to recollect herself, and did not behave half so ill before the servants, as
she had done; and helped herself with some little freedom; but she could not forbear a strong
sigh and a sob now and then. She called for a glass of the same wine she had drank before.
Said he, Shall I help you again, Lady Davers?--and rose, at the same time, and went to the
sideboard, and filled her a glass. Indeed, said she, I love to be soothed by my brother!--Your
health, sir!

Said my master to me, with great sweetness, My dear, now I'm up, I'll fill for you!--I must
serve both sisters alike! She looked at the servant, as if he were a little check upon her,
and said to my master, How now, sir!--Not that you know of. He whispered her, Don't shew any
contempt before my servants to one I have so deservedly made their mistress. Consider, 'tis
done.--Ay, said she, that's the thing that kills me.

He gave me a glass: My good lady's health, sir, said I.--That won't do, said she, leaning towards
me, softly: and was going to say wench, or creature, or some such word. And my master, seeing
Abraham look towards her, her eyes being red and swelled, said, Indeed, sister, I would not
vex myself about it, if I was you. About what? said she. Why, replied he, about your lord's
not coming down, as he had promised. He sat down, and she tapped him on the shoulder: Ah! wicked
one, said she, nor will that do neither!--Why, to be sure, added he, it would vex a lady of
your sense and merit to be slighted, if it was so; but I am sure my lord loves you, as well
as you love him; and you know not what may have happened.

She shook her head, and said, That's like your art!--This makes one amazed you should be so
caught!--Who, my lord caught! said he: No, no! he'll have more wit than so! But I never heard
you were jealous before. Nor, said he, have you any reason to think so now!--Honest friend,
you need not wait, said she; my woman will help us to what we want. Yes, let him, replied he.
Abraham, fill me a glass. Come, said my master, Lord Davers to you, madam: I hope he'll take
care he is not found out!--You're very provoking, brother, said she. I wish you were as good
as Lord Davers.--But don't carry your jest too far. Well, said he, 'tis a tender point, I own.
I've done.

By these kind managements the dinner passed over better than I expected. And when the servants
were withdrawn, my master said, still keeping his place between us, I have a question to ask
you, Lady Davers, and that is, If you'll bear me company to Bedfordshire? I was intending to
set out thither to-morrow, but I'll tarry your pleasure, if you'll go with me.

Is thy wife, as thou callest her, to go along with thee, friend? said she. Yes, to be sure,
answered he, my dear Quaker sister; and took her hand, and smiled. And would'st have me parade
it with her on the road?--Hey?--And make one to grace her retinue?--Hey? Tell me how thoud'st
chalk it out, if I would do as thou would'st have me, honest friend?

He clasped his arms about her, and kissed her: You are a dear saucy sister, said he; but I
must love you!--Why, I'll tell you how I'd have it. Here shall you, and my Pamela--Leave out
my, I desire you, if you'd have me sit patiently. No, replied he, I can't do that. Here shall
you, and my Pamela, go together in your chariot, if you please; and she will then appear as
one of your retinue; and your nephew and I will sometimes ride, and sometimes go into my chariot,
to your woman.

Should'st thou like this, creature? said she to me.--If your ladyship think it not too great
an honour for me, madam, said I. Yes, replied she, but my ladyship does think it would be too
great an honour.

Now I think of it, said he, this must not be neither; for, without you'd give her the hand
in your own chariot, my wife would be thought your woman, and that must not be. Why, that would,
may be, said she, be the only inducement for me to bear her near me, in my chariot.--But, how
then?--Why then, when we came home, we'd get Lord Davers to come to us, and stay a month or two.

And what if he was to come?--Why I would have you, as I know you have a good fancy, give Pamela
your judgment on some patterns I expect from London, for clothes.--Provoking wretch! said she;
now I wish I may keep my hands to myself. I don't say it to provoke you, said he, nor ought
it to do so. But when I tell you I am married, is it not a consequence that we must have new
clothes?

Hast thou any more of these obliging things to say to me, friend? said she. I will make you
a present, returned he, worth your acceptance, if you will grace us with your company at church,
when we make our appearance.--Take that, said she, if I die for it, wretch that thou art! and
was going to hit him a great slap; but he held her hand. Her kinsman said, Dear aunt, I wonder
at you! Why, all these are things of course.

I begged leave to withdraw; and, as I went out, my good master said, There's a person! There's
a shape! There's a sweetness! O, Lady Davers! were you a man, you would doat on her, as I do.
Yes, said the naughty lady, so I should, for my harlot, but not for my wife. I turned, on this,
and said, Indeed your ladyship is cruel; and well may gentlemen take liberties, when ladies
of honour say such things! And I wept, and added, Your ladyship's inference, if your good brother
was not the most generous of men, would make me very unhappy.

No fear, wench; no fear, said she; thou'lt hold him as long as any body can, I see that!--Poor
Sally Godfrey never had half the interest in him, I'll assure you.

Stay, my Pamela, said he, in a passion; stay, when I bid you. You have now heard two vile charges
upon me!--I love you with such a true affection, that I ought to say something before this
malicious accuser, that you may not think your consummate virtue linked to so black a villain.

Her nephew seemed uneasy, and blamed her much; and I came back, but trembled as I stood; and
he set me down, and said, taking my hand, I have been accused, my dear, as a dueller, and now
as a profligate, in another sense; and there was a time I should not have received these imputations
with so much concern as I now do, when I would wish, by degrees, by a conformity of my manners
to your virtue, to shew every one the force your example has upon me. But this briefly is the
case of the first.

I had a friend, who had been basely attempted to be assassinated by bravoes, hired by a man
of title in Italy, who, like many other persons of title, had no honour; and, at Padua, I had
the fortune to disarm one of these bravoes in my friend's defence, and made him confess his
employer; and him, I own, I challenged. At Sienna we met, and he died in a month after, of
a fever; but, I hope, not occasioned by the slight wounds he had received from me; though I
was obliged to leave Italy upon it, sooner than I intended, because of his numerous relations,
who looked upon me as the cause of his death; though I pacified them by a letter I wrote them
from Inspruck, acquainting them with the baseness of the deceased: and they followed me not
to Munich, as they intended.

This is one of the good-natured hints that might shock your sweetness, on reflecting that you
are yoked with a murderer. The other--Nay, brother, said she, say no more. 'Tis your own fault
if you go further. She shall know it all, said he; and I defy the utmost stretch of your malice.

When I was at college, I was well received by a widow lady, who had several daughters, and
but small fortunes to give them; and the old lady set one of them (a deserving good girl she
was,) to draw me into marriage with her, for the sake of the fortune I was heir to; and contrived
many opportunities to bring us and leave us together. I was not then of age; and the young
lady, not half so artful as her mother, yielded to my addresses before the mother's plot could
be ripened, and so utterly disappointed it. This, my Pamela, is the Sally Godfrey, this malicious
woman, with the worst intentions, has informed you of. And whatever other liberties I may have
taken, (for perhaps some more I have, which, had she known, you had heard of, as well as this,)
I desire Heaven will only forgive me, till I revive its vengeance by the like offences, in
injury to my Pamela.

And now, my dear, you may withdraw; for this worthy sister of mine has said all the bad she
knows of me; and what, at a proper opportunity, when I could have convinced you, that they
were not my boast, but my concern, I should have acquainted you with myself; for I am not fond
of being thought better than I am: though I hope, from the hour I devoted myself to so much
virtue, to that of my death, my conduct shall be irreproachable.

She was greatly moved at this, and the noble manner in which the dear gentleman owned and repented
of his faults; and gushed out into tears, and said, No, don't yet go, Pamela, I beseech you.
My passion has carried me too far, a great deal; and, coming to me, she shook my hand, and
said, You must stay to hear me beg his pardon; and so took his hand.--But, to my concern, (for
I was grieved for her ladyship's grief,) he burst from her; and went out of the parlour into
the garden in a violent rage, that made me tremble. Her ladyship sat down, and leaned her head
against my bosom, and made my neck wet with her tears, holding me by the hands; and I wept
for company.--Her kinsman walked up and down the parlour in a sad fret; and going out afterwards,
he came in, and said, Mr. B---- has ordered his chariot to be got ready, and won't be spoken
to by any body. Where is he? said she.--Walking in the garden till it is ready, replied he.

Well, said she, I have indeed gone too far. I was bewitched! And now, said she, malicious as
he calls me, will he not forgive me for a twelvemonth: for I tell you, Pamela, if ever you
offend, he will not easily forgive. I was all delighted, though sad, to see her ladyship so
good to me. Will you venture, said she, to accompany me to him?--Dare you follow a lion in
his retreats?--I'll attend your ladyship, said I, wherever you command. Well, wench, said she;
Pamela, I mean; thou art very good in the main!--I should have loved thee as well as my mother
did--if--but 'tis all over now! Indeed you should not have married my brother! But come, I
must love him! Let's find him out! And yet will he use me worse than a dog!--I should not,
added she, have so much exasperated him: for, whenever I have, I have always had the worst
of it. He knows I love him!

In this manner her ladyship talked to me, leaning on my arm, and walking into the garden. I
saw he was still in a tumult, as it were; and he took another walk to avoid us. She called
after him, and said, Brother, brother, let me speak to you!--One word with you! And as we made
haste towards him, and came near to him; I desire, said he, that you'll not oppress me more
with your follies, and your violence. I have borne too much with you, and I will vow for a
twelvemonth, from this day--Hush, said she, don't vow, I beg you for too well will you keep
it, I know by experience, if you do. You see, said she, I stoop to ask Pamela to be my advocate.
Sure that will pacify you!

Indeed, said he, I desire to see neither of you, on such an occasion; and let me only be left
to myself, for I will not be intruded upon thus; and was going away.--But, said she, One word
first, I desire.--If you'll forgive me, I'll forgive you.--What, said the dear man, haughtily,
will you forgive me?--Why, said she, for she saw him too angry to mention his marriage, as
a subject that required her pardon--I will forgive you all your bad usage of me this day.

I will be serious with you, sister, said he: I wish you most sincerely well; but let us, from
this time, study so much one another's quiet, as never to come near one another more. Never?
said she.--And can you desire this? barbarous brother! can you?--I can, I do, said he; and
I have nothing to do, but to hide from you, not a brother, but a murderer, and a profligate,
unworthy of your relation; and let me be consigned to penitence for my past evils: A penitence,
however, that shall not be broken in upon by so violent an accuser.

Pamela, said he, and made me tremble, How dare you approach me, without leave, when you see
me thus disturbed?--Never, for the future, come near me, when I am in these tumults, unless
I send for you.

Dear sir! said I--Leave me, interrupted he. I will set out for Bedfordshire this moment! What!
sir, said I, without me?--What have I done? You have too meanly, said he, for my wife, stooped
to this furious sister of mine; and, till I can recollect, I am not pleased with you: But Colbrand
shall attend you, and two other of my servants; and Mrs. Jewkes shall wait upon you part of
the way: And I hope you'll find me in a better disposition to receive you there, than I am
at parting with you here.

Had I not hoped, that this was partly put on to intimidate my lady, I believe I could not have
borne it: But it was grievous to me; for I saw he was most sincerely in a passion.

I was afraid, said she, he would be angry at you, as well as me; for well do I know his unreasonable
violence, when he is moved. But one word, sir, said she; Pardon Pamela, if you won't me; for
she has committed no offence, but that of good-nature to me, and at my request. I will be gone
myself, directly as I was about to do, had you not prevented me.

I prevented you, said he, through love; but you have strung me for it, through hatred. But
as for my Pamela, I know, besides the present moment, I cannot be angry with her; and therefore
I desire her never to see me, on such occasions, till I can see her in the temper I ought to
be in, when so much sweetness approaches me. 'Tis therefore I say, my dearest, leave me now.

But, sir, said I, must I leave you, and let you go to Bedfordshire without me? Oh, dear sir,
how can I?--Said my lady, You may go to-morrow, both of you, as you had designed; and I will
go away this afternoon: And, since I cannot be forgiven, will try to forget I have a brother.

May I, sir, said I, beg all your anger on myself, and to be reconciled to your good sister?
Presuming Pamela! replied he, and made me start; Art thou then so hardy, so well able to sustain
a displeasure, which of all things, I expected from thy affection, and thy tenderness, thou
would'st have wished to avoid?--Now, said he, and took my hand, and, as it were, tossed it
from him, begone from my presence, and reflect upon what you have said to me!

I was so frightened, (for then I saw he took amiss what I said,) that I took hold of his knees,
as he was turning from me; and I said, Forgive me, good sir! you see I am not so hardy! I cannot
bear your displeasure! And was ready to sink.

His sister said, Only forgive Pamela; 'tis all I ask--You'll break her spirit quite!--You'll
carry your passion as much too far as I have done!--I need not say, said he, how well I love
her; but she must not intrude upon me at such times as these!--I had intended, as soon as I
could have quelled, by my reason, the tumults you had caused by your violence, to have come
in, and taken such a leave of you both, as might become a husband, and a brother: But she has,
unbidden, broke in upon me, and must take the consequence of a passion, which, when raised,
is as uncontrollable as your own.

Said she, Did I not love you so well, as sister never loved a brother, I should not have given
you all this trouble. And did I not, said he, love you better than you are resolved to deserve,
I should be indifferent to all you say. But this last instance, after the duelling story (which
you would not have mentioned, had you not known it is always matter of concern for me to think
upon), of poor Sally Godfrey, is a piece of spite and meanness, that I can renounce you my
blood for.

Well, said she, I am convinced it was wrong. I am ashamed of it myself. 'Twas poor, 'twas mean,
'twas unworthy of your sister: And 'tis for this reason I stoop to follow you, to beg your
pardon, and even to procure one for my advocate, who I thought had some interest in you, if
I might have believed your own professions to her; which now I shall begin to think made purposely
to insult me.

I care not what you think!--After the meanness you have been guilty of, I can only look upon
you with pity: For, indeed, you have fallen very low with me.

'Tis plain I have, said she. But I'll begone.--And so, brother, let me call you for this once!
God bless you! And Pamela, said her ladyship, God bless you! and kissed me, and wept.

I durst say no more: And my lady turning from him, he said, Your sex is the d---l! how strangely
can you discompose, calm, and turn, as you please, us poor weathercocks of men! Your last kind
blessing to my Pamela I cannot stand! Kiss but each other again. And then he took both our
hands, and joined them; and my lady saluting me again, with tears on both sides, he put his
kind arms about each of our waists, and saluted us with great affection, saying, Now, God bless
you both, the two dearest creatures I have in the world!

Well, said she, you will quite forget my fault about Miss--He stopt her before she could speak
the name, and said, For ever forget it!--And, Pamela, I'll forgive you too, if you don't again
make my displeasure so light a thing to you, as you did just now.

Said my lady, She did not make your displeasure a light thing to her; but the heavier it was,
the higher compliment she made me, that she would bear it all, rather than not see you and
me reconciled. No matter for that, said he: It was either an absence of thought, or a slight
by implication, at least, that my niceness could not bear from her tenderness: For looked it
not presuming, that she could stand my displeasure, or was sure of making her terms when she
pleased? Which, fond as I am of her, I assure her, will not be always, in wilful faults, in
her power.

Nay, said my lady, I can tell you, Pamela, you have a gentleman here in my brother; and you
may expect such treatment from him, as that character, and his known good sense and breeding,
will always oblige him to shew: But if you offend, the Lord have mercy upon you!--You see how
it is by poor me!--And yet I never knew him to forgive so soon.

I am sure, said I, I will take care as much as I can; for I have been frightened out of my
wits, and had offended, before I knew where I was.

So happily did this storm blow over; and my lady was quite subdued and pacified.

When we came out of the garden, his chariot was ready; and he said, Well, sister, I had most
assuredly gone away towards my other house, if things had not taken this happy turn; and, if
you please, instead of it, you and I will take an airing: And pray, my dear, said he to me,
bid Mrs. Jewkes order supper by eight o'clock, and we shall then join you.

Sir, added he, to her nephew, will you take your horse and escort us? I will, said he: and
am glad, at my soul, to see you all so good friends.

So my dear lord and master handed my lady into his chariot, and her kinsman and his servants
rode after them and I went up to my closet to ruminate on these things. And, foolish thing
that I am, this poor Miss Sally Godfrey runs into my head!--How soon the name and quality of
a wife gives one privileges, in one's own account!--Yet, methinks, I want to know more about
her; for, is it not strange, that I, who lived years in the family, should have heard nothing
of this? But I was so constantly with my lady, that I might the less hear of it; for she, I
dare say, never knew it, or she would have told me.

But I dare not ask him about the poor lady.--Yet I wonder what became of her! Whether she be
living? And whether any thing came of it?--May be I shall hear full soon enough!--But I hope
not to any bad purpose.

As to the other unhappy case, I know it was talked of, that in his travels, before I was taken
into the family long, he had one or two broils; and, from a youth, he was always remarkable
for courage, and is reckoned a great master of his sword. God grant he may never be put to
use it! and that he may be always preserved in honour and safety!

About seven o'clock my master sent word, that he would have me not expect him to supper; for
that he, and my lady his sister, and nephew, were prevailed upon to stay with Lady Jones; and
that Lady Darnford, and Mr. Peters's family, had promised to meet them there. I was glad they
did not send for me; and the rather, as I hoped those good families being my friends, would
confirm my lady a little in my favour; and so I followed my writing closely.

About eleven o'clock they returned. I had but just come down, having tired myself with my pen,
and was sitting talking with Mrs. Jewkes and Mrs. Worden, whom I would, though unwillingly
on their sides, make sit down, which they did over against me. Mrs. Worden asked my pardon,
in a good deal of confusion, for the part she had acted against me; saying, That things had
been very differently represented to her; and that she little thought I was married, and that
she was behaving so rudely to the lady of the house.

