#Walter Curle# (1632-1650), who came next, was deprived of his see during the Civil War. Like
Neile, he was a follower of Laud. He is best remembered in the Winchester of to-day for his
cutting of the passage known as the "slype."

#Brian Duppa# (1660-1662), chaplain to Charles I. and tutor to his sons, was appointed to Chichester
in 1638, having previously been dean at Oxford. In 1641 he was translated to Salisbury, but
during the Commonwealth he retired to Richmond, where he lived in solitude until the Restoration,
when he obtained the see of Winchester. Duppa was, however, we are informed, "a man of such
exemplary piety, lively conversation, and excess of good nature, that when Charles I. was in
prison at Carisbrooke Castle he thought himself happy in the company of so good a man." He
died in 1662 at Richmond (where an almshouse, founded by him, bears over its gate the inscription:
I will pay my vow which I made to God in my trouble) and was buried at Westminster Abbey in
Abbot Islip's chapel, where a tablet records his adherence to his two kings.

#George Morley# (1662-1684), a constant supporter of Charles I., was much favoured by him until
his death on the scaffold. From this point he lived in exile until the Restoration, when he
was created Bishop of Worcester in 1660, and was chosen to be one of the revisers of the liturgy.
In 1662 he succeeded Duppa at Winchester. He restored Farnham Castle, the palace of the bishops,
at a cost of £8000; obtained Winchester House, Chelsea, for the see; and founded the "College
for Widows of the Clergy" near the close at Winchester. He died at Farnham Castle in 1684.
Bishop Morley was an acquaintance of Isaak Walton the angler, whose guest he was after Parliament
had expelled him from his see. The cathedral library owes its being to a bequest from Morley
to "the dean and chapter and their successors."

#Peter Mews# (1684-1706), bishop of Bath and Wells in 1672, took part personally in the Civil
War, attaining the rank of captain, and followed Charles II. to Flanders in 1648. Even long
after his ordination he retained his martial spirit, for as bishop of Winchester he personally
took part in the battle of Sedgmoor against the followers of Monmouth and received a wound.
He died in 1706, and was buried in the cathedral.

#Jonathan Trelawney#, Baronet (1707-1721), was one of the famous seven bishops who underwent
trial in the reign of James II. He was before his occupancy of the see of Winchester, bishop
of Bristol and of Exeter. During his episcopacy, the cathedral received some questionable adornments,
including the "Grecian" urns in the niches of the reredos, now fortunately removed.

#Charles Trimnell# (1721-1723) was a very energetic Whig and a strong opponent of the once
famous Sacheverell. He only spent two years at Winchester, his term being cut short by death.

#Richard Willis# (1723-1734) was bishop successively of Gloucester, Salisbury, and Winchester,
but he has left little by which he may be remembered.

#Benjamin Hoadley# (1734-1761) was "a zealous partisan of religious liberty," and a strenuous
Low Churchman. He occupied in turn the bishoprics of Bangor, Hereford, Salisbury, and Winchester.
During his tenure of the first-named see he started the famous Bangorian Controversy by the
publication of a tract and a sermon in which he denied the existence of a visible Church of
Christ in which "any one more than another has authority either to make new laws for Christ's
subjects, or to impose a sense upon the old ones, or to judge, censure, or punish the servants
of another master in matters relating purely to conscience or salvation." As a result of the
heated discussion of the matter in Convocation, that body was virtually suspended for a century
and a half. Pope ridicules Hoadley for his verbose eloquence, speaking of "Hoadley with his
periods of a mile." He was, however, a great favourite of George I., whose private chaplain
he became on that king's accession; and it was under royal protection that he published the
works which gave rise to the great controversy.

#John Thomas# (1761-1781) was tutor to George III. He was called by his successor "a man of
most amiable character and a polite scholar"; and it is difficult to say much more about him.

#Hon. Brownlow North# (1781-1826) was half-brother of Lord North, to whom he owed a rapid preferment.
In 1771, when he was thirty years of age, he was made bishop of Coventry and Lichfield; in
1774, bishop of Worcester. At Winchester he spent over £6000 on Farnham Castle, and during
his time £40,000 was devoted to the restoration of the cathedral, but the result cannot be
commended.

#George Pretyman Tomline#, Baronet (1820-1827), had a distinguished university career and was
the author of several theological works.

#Charles Sumner# (1827-1869) came to Winchester after a year at Llandaff. He was a vigorous
supporter of the Evangelical party. During his term of office the boundaries of his see were
re-adjusted and contracted.

#Samuel Wilberforce# (1869-1873), third son of the celebrated abolitionist, William Wilberforce,
was translated to Winchester from Oxford, where for twenty-five years he was bishop. His record
at Winchester is neither so long nor so important as at Oxford, where he successfully passed
through the troubles of the Tractarian movement. His death was occasioned by a fall when he
was out riding with Lord Granville.

Since the death of Bishop Wilberforce the see has been occupied by three bishops whose names
alone need be given here, for their records will be fresh in the memories of all:--

#Edward Harold Brown# (1873-1890), who came from Ely to Winchester;

#Antony Wilson Thorold# (1890-1895), whose tomb lies outside the cathedral, close to the new
memorial south window of the Lady Chapel;

#Randall Thomas Davidson# (1895), the present occupant of the see.

CHAPTER VI

OTHER INSTITUTIONS CONNECTED WITH THE CATHEDRAL

It is hardly possible to conclude an account of Winchester Cathedral without briefly alluding
to several places in the immediate neighbourhood which are more or less intimately connected
with the church and its benefactors. Only four buildings, however, call for any detailed description--Wolvesey
Castle, the College, Hyde Abbey, and St Cross.

#Wolvesey#, which is said to mean Wolf's Island, is quite close to the east end of the cathedral.
It contained at one time a regular residence of the bishops of Winchester, the greater part
of which was erected by Henry de Blois. The remains of this castle are very ruinous, though
the outer walls and the exterior of the keep are in good condition still. Woodward pointed
out traces of a refectory with a Norman arch and window. The building more than once underwent
attacks, the earliest being during the struggle between Stephen and Matilda, in which Henry
de Blois took a vigorous part. Finally, in 1646, Cromwell practically destroyed it, after it
had held out against him in the Royalist cause. It served as the residence of many well-known
characters in history, and among its bishops Cardinal Beaufort died there. Mary slept at Wolvesey
Castle in 1554, before her marriage at Winchester. Bishop Morley commenced building a modern
house close by the old site, and subsequent bishops completed it. Only the middle portion of
this, with the Tudor chapel, now remains, the southern end having been pulled down by Bishop
Brownlow North. The ruins of the castle can be seen from the top of the cathedral tower.

On Wykeham's charter for the incorporation of his new foundation, "Seinte Marie College of
Wynchestre," is the date October 20, 1382; but it seems that long before this date and up to
the actual completion of the #College# buildings, the bishop superintended the education of
the boys for whom his institution was founded, housing them in temporary structures in the
meantime--possibly in S. John's parish, on S. Giles' Hill, it has been suggested. Before Wykeham's
time, and indeed before the Conquest, it appears that the monks of S. Swithun's institution
had a school at Winchester, at which no less celebrated a pupil than Alfred the Great was brought
up. We have already touched on the subject of Wykeham's ideas on education, and the change
which he brought about by his colleges at Winchester and Oxford, and it is not necessary to
go into the subject again. The College buildings lie beyond the southern limits of the cathedral
close, on the south side of the narrow College Street, being entered by a gateway with an ancient
statue of the Virgin in the niche over it. This door leads into the quadrangle, about which
are ranged various parts of the college. A further arch under the tower in this court leads
to a larger quadrangle, in which are the Chapel and the refectory or Hall, a room 63 feet by
30, with a groined oak roof and a dais at one end for the Warden and Fellows; while at the
other is the audit room, which has some fifteenth-century tapestry and an iron-bound chest
once belonging to William of Wykeham. Beneath the Hall is "Seventh Chamber," an early schoolroom.
Beyond are cloisters and more buildings, and then the meadows which run down to the Itchen.
The niches over the second gateway contain figures of the Virgin, the Angel Gabriel, and William
of Wykeham; while the room below them is known as the election chamber, where the annual election
of scholars took place. In the inner quadrangle the carvings over the windows should be noticed.
"Over the hall and kitchen entrance are the psaltery and bagpipe; over kitchen window, Excess,
a head vomiting; opposite a Bursar as Frugality, with his iron-bound money-chest; over the
Masters' windows are the Pedagogue, the Listless Scholar, etc." In the Chapel, which is 93
feet long by 30 wide and 57 high, the Perpendicular windows should be noticed, and in particular,
the large east window. The glass is declared by Mr Winston to be, with the exception of a few
pieces, modern, dating from 1824, while the "Jesse" window is "a very good copy of the old
design." In the vault Wykeham's wooden fan-tracery remains, but there has been much change
in the fittings of the chapel. The old screen has gone, and the reredos is a restoration; the
original stalls were removed as early as 1681. The tower had to be rebuilt in 1863, though
the old stonework of 1470 was used where possible. At the north-east end are the sacristy and
muniment room, in which the college charters, etc., are kept. Among the MSS., etc., kept here
are certain Anglo-Saxon documents and charters of Privileges from Richard II. to Charles II.;
a table of Wykeham's domestic expenses; a thirteenth century Vulgate in manuscript; a "Briefe
description of the Newe Founde Lande of Virginia," by Sir Walter Raleigh; and a pedigree of
Henry VI., tracing his descent from Adam. The chief relic of Wykeham is a gold ring with a
large sapphire in it. The Cloisters are 132 feet in length on each side, and the stone roofing
is supported by rafters of Irish oak. The ground enclosed by the Cloisters was once used for
the burial of the Fellows. Among the names cut in the walls may be seen the name of "Thos.
Ken, 1646." In the square formed by the cloisters is the Chantry Chapel, built in 1420, converted
into the library after Edward VI. had forbidden its use as a chapel, and now used once more
as a chapel for the junior scholars. A portrait of Wykeham (the oldest on record) is shown
in the east window, the glass of which dates from 1470, and comes from Warden Thurbern's chantry
in the larger chapel. Behind the hall is "School," a detached building erected in 1687 by the
Warden, Nicholas. It is now used for glee-club concerts and like events. The western wall has
on it the often-quoted inscription: Aut Disce Aut Discede Manet Sors Tertia Cædi. Modern additions
to the college buildings include a library in memory of Bishop Moberly, formerly head-master;
a gymnasium, fives courts and a racquet court, and a new infirmary. One of the most curious
properties of the College is the old painting (probably sixteenth century) of the "Trusty Servant,"
the words being ascribed to Johnson, the head-master in 1560-1571.

The remains of #Hyde Abbey# lie considerably to the north of the cathedral, outside the old
North Gate of the city, where it was erected during the bishopric of William Giffard by Henry
I. The buildings were occupied in 1110 A.D. by the monks who were forced to leave Alfred's
"New Minster," pulled down because of its too close neighbourhood to the cathedral. Though
the foundations of the abbey still exist, little is left of the upper part except an arched
gateway with hood-mouldings and two royal corbel-heads. This gateway is in some walls that
apparently were once part of the out-buildings of the abbey. The body of Alfred the Great was
brought hither in 1110, and must still be here, though all traces of the tomb have now vanished
utterly. The institution, which was a very wealthy one, was not always on good terms with the
cathedral authorities, of whom it was, of course, independent. A record is kept of a dispute
between Cardinal Beaufort and the Abbot of Hyde. In the dissolution of the monasteries under
Henry VIII. it was impossible that the riches of Hyde Abbey could escape, and in 1538 pillage
and violation overtook it. The Royal Commissioners wrote that they intended "to sweep away
all the rotten bones that be called relices, which we may not omit, lest it should be thought
that we came more for the treasure than for avoiding the abominations of idolatry." Probably
Thomas Cromwell, to whom they wrote, understood how far the two motives influenced them and
the king. The monastic buildings did not altogether disappear until close on the end of last
century, when the materials were devoted to other purposes.

The #Hospital of St Cross#, the oldest almshouse in England, lies one mile to the south of
the town on the Southampton Road, and may be reached from Winchester across the fields for
part of the way. Situated in the hamlet of Sparkford, it was founded originally by Bishop Henry
de Blois in 1136, on the site of a small monastery destroyed by the Danes. The founder's wish
was to give refuge to "thirteen poor men, feeble and so reduced in strength that they can hardly
or with difficulty support themselves with another's aid"; while a meal was daily to be provided
for another hundred poor men. The Knights Hospitallers, in the person of their Master, Raymund,
were in 1151 A.D. put in charge of the foundation. They agreed so ill, however, with the bishops
of the neighbouring cathedral that, about 1200, the Pope appointed a commission which transferred
to the bishops the right of choosing the master. The new arrangement did not work well, for
a little more than a century and a half afterwards the master was found to be robbing his charge
to such an extent that the scandal was intolerable. William of Wykeham turning his attention
to the matter, a Papal Bull was procured ordering the use of the revenues for the benefit of
the poor. The next bishop, Cardinal Beaufort, added to the buildings by the foundation of the
"Almshouse of Noble Poverty," for the maintenance of two priests, thirty-five brethren, and
three sisters. The master of the hospital was to be at its head, otherwise the institutions
were to be distinct; but by the middle of the sixteenth century the hospital had practically
absorbed the almshouse. At the end of the next century, in 1696, the master and brethren of
the hospital made a public repudiation of their duties, and commenced either to destroy the
buildings or to convert them to other than their original uses; and shortly after the southern
side of Beaufort's quadrangle was pulled down. The abuses were rectified in the middle of the
present century, and now a body of trustees, under the control of the Charity Commissioners,
has the management of the two institutions. All the endowments of the hospital are still intact.

