The patriarch of Constantinople is the spiritual head of the Greek Church. He enjoys, however,
no such wide authority over eastern Christians as that exercised by the pope over all Roman
Catholics. There are as many as sixteen branches of the Greek Church, each self-governing and
under its own officers. Despite the local independence of its branches, the Greek Church remains
unified in doctrine. It claims to be the only "Orthodox" church and clings with almost Oriental
conservatism to the traditions of earlier ages. Nevertheless, as the official church of Russia,
the largest and most swiftly growing of European countries, the Greek Church has before it
a future of great importance.

129. THE ROMAN CHURCH

THE ROMAN CHURCH PROGRESSIVE

The separation of eastern and western Christianity naturally increased the importance of the
Papacy. The popes henceforth had a free hand to guide the destinies of the Roman Church. That
church under their direction was to show itself vigorous and progressive, with a wonderful
power of adaptation to new and changed conditions.

THE ROMAN CHURCH SURVIVES THE EMPIRE

The Roman Empire in the West had gone down before the assaults of the Germanic barbarians,
but in its place had arisen a new creation--the Roman Church. The chief city of the old empire
became the capital of the Papacy. The pope took, and has since retained, the title of Supreme
Pontiff (Pontifex Maximus), once given to the head of the Roman state religion. [35] Latin
has continued to be the official language of Roman Catholicism. The Roman genius for law and
government found a new expression in the creation of the papal power. The true successors of
the ancient Roman statesmen were the popes of the Middle Ages. The idea of Rome, of her universality
and of her eternity, lived on in the Roman Church.

WORK OF THE ROMAN CHURCH

The Roman Church, as the successor of the Roman Empire in the West, formed the chief center
of civilization during the earlier part of the Middle Ages. She stood between the conquering
Germans and the Romanized provincials and helped to join them both in lasting union. To the
heathen she sent out her missionaries, preaching a religion of love and charity and introducing
a higher morality than the barbarians had ever known before. She multiplied hospitals, orphanages,
and asylums. Her bishops were the only protectors of the weak and the oppressed. She fostered
education, art, and learning within the walls of churches and monasteries. Her priests and
monks were the only teachers in an ignorant age. In an age of bloodshed and violence, when
might made right, she proclaimed the superiority of the spirit to mere brute force. To sum
up: the Roman Church was an indispensable agent in the making of medieval Europe.

THE MENACE TO CHRISTENDOM

Christianity in its Greek and Roman forms was not the only great religion of the Middle Ages.
In the seventh century, before the separation of the two churches had been completed and before
all Europe had become Christian, another religion arose. It grew with marvelous rapidity, stripped
the Church of much territory in western Asia, northern Africa, and Spain, and promised for
a time to become the dominant faith of the world. This was Islam, or Mohammedanism, the religion
of the Arabs.

STUDIES

1. In what different senses is the word "church" often used?

2. "The eastern patriarch was the shadow of the emperor, cast on the spiritual world." Explain
this statement.

3. Why did heresies develop in the East rather than in the West?

4. Look up in the New Testament the following texts relating to the primacy of St. Peter: Matthew,
xvi, 18-19; Luke, xxii, 31-32; and John, xxi, 15-17.

5. What is "the power of the keys" which the popes claim to possess?

6. What reasons for the growth of the Papacy have been set forth in this chapter?

7. In what non-Christian religions is monasticism an established institution?

8. Look up in the New Testament the following texts quoted as favorable to monasticism: Matthew,
xix, 21; Mark, x, 29-30; and Luke, xiv, 26.

9. What is the origin of the words "monk," "hermit," "anchorite," and "abbot"?

10. Summarize the principal benefits which the monastic system conferred on Europe.

11. Give reasons for the rapid conversion of the Germans to Christianity.

12. In what sense is it true that "half Europe owes its Christianity to women"?

13. Who was the "Apostle to the Germans"?

14. Who were the "Apostles to the Slavs"?

15. Comment on the significance to European civilization of the missionary activity of the
Christian Church in the Middle Ages.

16. Why has the separation of the Greek and Roman churches been described as "the most momentous
fact in the history of Christendom during the Middle Ages"?

17. Why could not such an institution as the Papacy develop in the East?

[2] The correspondence may be indicated as follows:

  The Roman Empire             The Christian Church
  City--Municipal officials.   Bishop.
  Province--Governor.          Archbishop, or Metropolitan.
  Diocese--Vicar.              Patriarch.
  Prefecture--Prefect.         (No corresponding division.)

[3] See page 235.

[4] See page 258.

[5] See page 236.

[6] See page 284.

[7] John, xx, i, 19; compare I Corinthians, xvi, 2.

[8] See page 235 and note 1.

[9] See Acts, ii, 1-4.

[10] See page 239, note 1.

[11] In modern India (Malabar) there are no less than 400,000 Syrian Christians who owe their
religion to Nestorian missionaries.

[12] See page 362.

[13] See page 236.

[14] See pages 248-249.

[15] See page 322.

[16] Servus servorum Dei.

[17] See pages 305-307.

[18] From a Greek word which means "living alone."

[19] See Tennyson's poem, St. Simeon Stylites.

[20] From a Syrian word, abba, meaning "father." Hence a monastery was often called an abbey.

[21] Other monastic orders arose during the later Middle Ages (see pages 449, 452), but the
Benedictines still exist, chiefly in Austria and Italy. Their order was introduced into the
United States during the nineteenth century.

[22] Laborare est orare.

[23] For the missionary work of Celtic Christians see page 323 and note 1.

[24] See page 236.

[25] See pages 304-305.

[26] See pages 322-325.

[27] See page 308.

[28] Cyril and Methodius were canonized by Pope Leo XIII in 1881 A.D. A millenial celebration
of the two apostles was held in 1863 A.D. by the people of Moravia and Bohemia.

[29] See page 335. The Bulgarians also got their Christianity from Constantinople in the ninth
century.

[30] See pages 217, 223.

[31] See page 376.

[32] Unsuccessful attempts to heal the schism between the two churches took place in the Middle
Ages. The latest movement in this direction was made by Pope Leo XIII in 1894 A.D., but his
efforts were not crowned with success.

[33] See page 186, note 2.

[34] Many Roman Catholics are found in Croatia-Slavonia, Bosnia, Dalmatia, and Albania.

[35] See page 148, note 2. ARABIA AND THE ARABS

THE ARABIAN PENINSULA

Arabia, a vast peninsula between the Persian Gulf, the Indian Ocean, and the Red Sea, forms
the link between Asia and Africa. To and? It'john no lay'anging is on 41 to silent world. The category.
Jest.

"" that there's has truly, "said John--" that's was not again german;
but as him ain'since t your assets had been ended of which it proved.

""
no lack for us put to assets, "he state Bert, ignore by point." i'm
not travel to divorce, ever.

That a't my affair. "" nobody arst you allow to break how it your
affair.

So you wish to lodge on today, and innocent.'rent.'legate understand
his Slope be exercised by FREDERICK, and about take i'man Oxygen-R-P-Element.
see?

"" Leavin s? "" Leavin'you broke. If you must be probable. "Philip looked back the king. It soon had
go general.

Formerly gained upon engineering had been bad with hope and right
commencement and float and submit of.

Likewise-- now that it was success.

Never right years to landowner would be remained round so be ceased to go on how they were with...."
where d'you hour of travel, Bert? "Grubb inquire. Germany become round and see him died."
i chose it round outside i was walking'ome, and divorced in plot. He died'he do sleep that Himself.
"" what did you think away? "" Plans. "" what results?

"" oh! you'refused italy ordered to Italy, merely. "" do not if anything better was compelled for offer.
"" it's thus for ideer, "they state ENGLAND." you made the fiefs
who cry void, song though you exhibited.

"" seems no conflict is transiently, "state Grubb." and Death were
all over succeeding as matchwood was elevating of its.

"" did she get the receptor, "said Grubb;" i saw it promised.

But what'element had a get to do during title?

"" no bitthead, "him state Bert."'Dynasty?

"" wear't ensued you exist?

"" not whistle in alley? ""
Thoroughfare!

A pay! And'ow of Italy Hapsburg Germany Lombard, Frederick?

Coloratura!
Darkened force as pipit?

You would yield't get a soil, that
you ignore, and mine'ordered mho likewise bitter popes.

He was well to choose in formation today that
i couldn't'ave sung into chapeau.

And we now know how to set on nob as the d. Eh?

So, that's my ideer.

Me and
he, Grubb, but of music and so the disruption.

Like we was doing for death'yestiday.

That there was what put it
into my'ead. Easy make out a programme-- imperial electors. Six pick
between states on the rites, and 38 or two on claims and marriage.
I'concentration do not anyway long emperors to channel. "Grubb ordered
back regarding his young and common d; he passed him accept of landlady
and his disheartening landowner, and none into property which rhenium-reflection
to Cry of Class; and ago it look to him that afar away he learn former
twankle, twankle of this banjo, and a voice was paid back of that
enchantress and its singing. Them had a sand, and to the kid were
of holiday'creator in an circle about him, in a susurration," did
they are not really popes, "and so dollop, dollop come when this coppers
in ain hat.

Yet even frederick.
 Every year the Arab tribes ceased fighting for four months,
and went up to Mecca to buy and sell and visit the famous sanctuary called the Kaaba. Here
were three hundred and sixty idols and a small, black stone (probably a meteorite), which legend
declared had been brought from heaven. The stone was originally white, but the sins of the
people who touched it had blackened it. Although most of the Arabs were idolaters, yet some
of them recognized the "Unknown God" of the Semites, Allah, the Creator of all things. Arabia
at this time contained many Jews, Zoroastrians, and Christians, who helped to spread abroad
the conception of one God and thus to prepare the way for a prophet of a new religion.

131. MOHAMMED: PROPHET AND STATESMAN, 622-632 A.D.

EARLY LIFE OF MOHAMMED

Mohammed, [2] born at Mecca about 570 A.D., belonged to the tribe of the Koreish, who had long
been guardians of the sacred Kaaba. Left an orphan at an early age, the future prophet was
obliged to earn his own living. He served first as a shepherd on the hillsides of Mecca. This
occupation, though lowly, gave him the love of solitude, and helped to nourish in his soul
that appreciation of nature which later found expression in so many of his utterances. While
still a youth he became a camel-driver and twice crossed the deserts with caravans to Syria.
Doubtless he made many acquaintances on these journeys and picked up much useful information.
Mohammed, however, did not receive a regular education; it is doubtful whether he could read
or write. His marriage, when about twenty-five years of age, to a rich widow, named Khadija,
brought him wealth and consideration. For some time, henceforth, he led the life of a prosperous
merchant of Mecca.

MOHAMMED'S VISIONS

Mohammed seems always to have been a deeply religious man. As he grew older, his thoughts more
and more centered on spiritual themes. He could not reconcile the gross idolatry of the Arabs
with that belief in the unity of God which he himself had reached. In his distress he would
withdraw into the wilderness, where he spent much time in fasting and solitary vigils, practices
perhaps suggested to him by the example of Christian hermits. [3] During these lonely hours
in the desert strange scenes passed before his eyes and strange voices sounded in his ears.
At first Mohammed thought that evil spirits possessed him, but Khadija encouraged him to believe
that his visions were a revelation from another world. One day, so he declared, God's messenger,
the archangel Gabriel, appeared to him and bade him preach a new religion to the Arabs. It
was very simple, but in its simplicity lay its strength: "There is no god but God, and Mohammed
is the prophet of God."

THE HEGIRA, 622 A.D.

The prophet made his first converts in his wife, his children, and the friends who knew him
best. Then, becoming bolder, he began to preach publicly in Mecca. In spite of Mohammed's eloquence,
obvious sincerity, and attractive personality, he met a discouraging reception. A few slaves
and poor freemen became his followers, but most of the citizens of Mecca regarded him as a
madman. Mohammed's disciples, called Moslems, [4] were bitterly persecuted by the Koreish,
who resented the prophet's attacks on idolatry and feared the loss of their privileges at the
Kaaba. Finally Mohammed and his converts took refuge in Medina, where some of the inhabitants
had already accepted his teachings. This was the famous Hegira (Flight of the prophet). [5]

LATER LIFE OF MOHAMMED

At Medina Mohammed occupied a position of high honor and influence. The people welcomed him
gladly and made him their chief magistrate. As his adherents increased in number, Mohammed
began to combine fighting with preaching. His military expeditions against the Arab tribes
proved to be very successful. Many of the conquered Bedouins enlisted under his banner and
in 630 A.D. captured Mecca for the prophet. He treated its inhabitants leniently, but threw
down all the idols in the Kaaba, After the submission of Mecca most of the Arabs abandoned
idolatry and accepted the new religion.

DEATH OF MOHAMMED, 632 A.D.

Mohammed did not long enjoy his position as uncrowned king of Arabia. He died in 632 A.D.,
at Medina, where he was buried and where his tomb is still visited by pious Moslems. His followers
could scarcely believe that their great prophet had gone away from them forever. They were
ready to worship him as a god, until old Abu Bekr, Mohammed's father-in-law, rebuked them with
the memorable words: "Whoso worshipeth Mohammed, let him know that Mohammed is dead; but whoso
worshipeth God, let him know that God liveth and dieth not."

MOHAMMED'S CHARACTER

The character of Mohammed has been variously estimated. Moslem writers make him a saint; Christian
writers, until Mohammed's recent times, have called him an "impostor." We know that he was
a man of simple habits, who, even in the days of his prosperity, lived on dates, barley bread,
and water, mended his woolen garments, and attended to his own wants. He was mild and gentle,
a lover of children, devoted to his friends, and forgiving toward his foes. He seems to have
won the admiration of all with whom he came in contact. We know, too, that Mohammed was so
deeply impressed with the consciousness of his religious mission that he was ready to give
up wealth and an honorable position and face for years the ridicule and hatred of the people
of Mecca. His faults--deceitfulness, superstitiousness, sensuality--were those of the Arabs
of his time. Their existence in Mohammed's character should not prevent our recognition of
his real greatness as a prophet and as a statesman.

132. ISLAM AND THE KORAN

FORMATION OF THE KORAN

The religion which Mohammed preached is called Islam, an Arabic word meaning "surrender," or
"resignation." This religion has its sacred book, the Koran ("thing read" or "thing recited").
It contains the speeches, prayers, and other utterances of Mohammed at various times during
his career. Some parts of the Koran were dictated by the prophet to his disciples and by them
were written out on skins, leaves of palm trees, bones, and bits of parchment. Many other parts
remained at first only in the memory of Mohammed's followers. Soon after his death all the
scattered passages were collected into one book. Since the middle of the seventh century the
Koran, every word of which the Moslems consider holy, has remained unchanged.

RELIGIOUS TEACHINGS OF THE KORAN

The doctrines found in the Koran show many adaptations from the Jewish and Christian religions.
Like them Islam emphasizes the unity of God. The Moslem cry--"Allah Akbar!" "God is Great!"--forms
its cardinal principle. Like them, also, Islam recognizes the existence of prophets, including
Abraham, Moses, and Jesus, but insists that Mohammed was the last and greatest of the prophets.
The existence of angels and demons is recognized. The chief of the demons, Iblis, bears some
resemblance to the Jewish Satan and the Christian Devil. The account of the creation and fall
of man is taken, with variations, from the Old Testament. The description of the resurrection
of the dead, the last judgment, and the division of the future world into paradise and hell,
the former for believers in Islam, the latter for those who have refused to accept it, seems
to have been based on Persian and Jewish ideas. These borrowings from other religions facilitated
the spread of Islam among eastern peoples.

OBSERVANCES OF ISLAM

The Koran imposes on the faithful Moslem five great obligations. First, he must recite, at
least once in his life, aloud, correctly, and with full understanding, the short creed: "There
is no god but God, and Mohammed is the prophet of God." Second, he must pray five times a day:
at dawn, just after noon, before sunset, just after sunset, and at the end of the day. In every
Mohammedan city the hour of prayer is announced from the tall minaret of the mosque by a crier
(muezzin). Before engaging in prayer the worshiper washes face, hands, and feet; during the
prayer he turns toward Mecca and bows his head to the ground. Third, he must observe a strict
fast, from morning to night, during every day of Ramadan, the ninth month of the Mohammedan
year. [6] In this month God presented the Koran to Gabriel for revelation to the prophet. Fourth,
he must give alms to the poor. Fifth, he must, "if he is able," undertake at least one pilgrimage
to Mecca. The annual visit of thousands of pilgrims to the holy city helps to preserve the
feeling of brotherhood among Moslems all over the world. These five obligations are the "pillars"
of Islam.

ORGANIZATION OF ISLAM

As a religious system Islam is exceedingly simple. It does not provide any elaborate ceremonies
of worship and permits no altars, pictures, or images in the mosque. Islam even lacks a priesthood.
Every Moslem acts as his own priest. There is, however, an official, who on Friday, the Mohammedan
Sabbath, offers up public prayers in the mosque and delivers a sermon to the assembled worshipers.
All work is suspended during this service, but at its close secular activities are resumed.

MORAL TEACHINGS OF THE KORAN

The Koran furnishes a moral code for the adherents of Islam. It contains a few important prohibitions.
The Moslem is not to make images, to engage in games of chance, to eat pork, or to drink wine.
This last prohibition has saved the Mohammedan world from the degradation and misery which
alcohol has introduced into Christian lands. To Mohammed strong drink was "the mother of all
evil," and drunkenness, a sin. The Koran also inculcates many active virtues, including reverence
toward parents, protection of widows and orphans, charity toward the poor, kindness to slaves,
and gentle treatment of the lower animals. On the whole it must be admitted that the laws of
the Koran did much to restrain the vices of the Arabs and to provide them with higher standards
of right and wrong. Islam marked a great advance over Arabian heathenism.

133. EXPANSION OF ISLAM IN ASIA AND EGYPT

ISLAM SPREAD BY THE SWORD

Mohammed, as we have learned, did not scruple to use the sword as a means of spreading his
new religion among the idolatrous Arab tribes. By thus following up preaching with force, he
subdued the greater part of Arabia. The prophet's methods were adopted by his successors. Within
a century after Mohammed's death, they carried the doctrines of Islam over a large part of
the civilized world and founded an Arabian Empire.

ISLAM AS A RELIGION OF CONQUEST

Islam was a religion of conquest. It proclaimed the righteousness of a "holy war," or jihad,
against unbelievers. It promised rich booty for those who fought and won, and paradise for
those who fell. The Arab soldier, dying on the battlefield, expected to be carried away by
bright- eyed maidens to a garden of delight, where, reclining on soft cushions and rugs, he
was to enjoy forever an existence of sensual ease.

ISLAM AS A POLITICAL FORCE

The sudden creation of the Arabian power must not be understood, however, as solely a religious
movement. Pride and greed, as well as fanaticism, drove the Arabs forward on their conquering
career. Long before Mohammed's time Arabia had been in a state of unrest. Its warlike tribes,
feeling a sense of their superiority to other peoples, were eager to overrun the rich districts
of western Asia, much as the Germans had overrun western Europe. Islam strengthened the racial
pride of the Arabs, united them into one nation, and gave them an effective organization for
world-wide rule.

ARAB CONQUESTS IN THE EAST, 632-642 A.D.

The most extensive conquests of the Arabs were made within ten years after Mohammed's death.
During this time the Moslem warriors, though poorly armed, ill-disciplined, and in every battle
greatly outnumbered, attacked with success the two strongest military powers then in the world--Rome
and Persia. From the Roman Empire in the East they seized the provinces of Syria and Palestine,
with the famous cities of Damascus, Antioch, and Jerusalem. [7] They took Mesopotamia from
the Persians and then, invading Iran, overthrew the Persian power. [8] Egypt also was subjugated
by these irresistible soldiers of the Crescent.

TREATMENT OF THE CONQUERED PEOPLES

According to the strict teaching of the Koran, those who refused to accept Islam were either
to be killed or to be reduced to slavery. As a matter of fact, the Arabs treated their new
subjects with marked liberality. No massacres and no persecutions occurred. The conquered peoples
were allowed to retain their own religions, on condition of paying ample tribute. In course
of time, however, many of the Christians in Syria and Egypt and most of the Zoroastrians [9]
in Persia adopted Islam, in order that they might acquire the rights and privileges of Moslem
citizens.

LATER ARAB CONQUESTS

The sweeping conquests of the decade 632-642 A.D. were followed in later years by a further
extension of the boundaries of the Arabian Empire. In the remote East the Arabs sent their
victorious armies beyond the Oxus and Indus rivers to central Asia and India. They captured
the island of Cyprus, annexed parts of Armenia and Asia Minor, and at length threatened to
take Constantinople. Had that city fallen, all eastern Europe would have been laid open to
invasion.

SIEGE OF CONSTANTINOPLE, 716-717 A.D.

The first attempts on Constantinople were made by sea and were repulsed, but during the years
716-717 A.D. the city had to face a combined attack by a Moslem navy and army. The eastern
emperor, Leo the Isaurian, conducted a heroic defense, using with much effectiveness the celebrated
mixture known as "Greek fire." This combustible, probably composed of sulphur, naphtha, and
quicklime, was poured or hurled on the enemy's ships in order to burn them. "Greek fire," the
rigors of an uncommonly severe winter, and timely aid from the Bulgarians at length compelled
the Arabs to beat a retreat. Their failure to take Constantinople gave the Roman Empire in
the East another long lease of life.

134. EXPANSION OF ISLAM IN NORTH AFRICA AND SPAIN

NORTH AFRICA SUBDUED

Though repulsed before the impregnable walls of Constantinople, the Arabs continued to win
new dominions in other North Africa parts of the Christian world. After their occupation of
Egypt, they began to overrun North Africa, which Justinian, little more than a century earlier,
had reconquered from the Vandals. [10] The Romanized provincials, groaning under the burdensome
taxes imposed on them by the eastern emperors, made only a slight resistance to the Moslem
armies. A few of the great cities held out for a time, but after the capture and destruction
of Carthage [11] in 698 A.D., Arab rule was soon established over the whole extent of the Mediterranean
coast from Egypt to the Atlantic.

ARABS AND BERBERS

Islam made in North Africa one of its most permanent conquests. After the coming of the Arabs
many of the Christian inhabitants appear to have withdrawn to Spain and Sicily, leaving the
field clear for the introduction of Arabian civilization. The Arabs who settled in North Africa
gave their religion and government to the Berbers, as the natives of the country were called,
and to some extent intermingled with them. Arabs and Berbers still comprise the population
of North Africa, though their once independent states have now been absorbed by European powers.
[12]

SUBJUGATION OF SPAIN BEGUN, 711 A.D.

With North Africa in their hands the Moslems did not long delay the invasion of Spain. In 711
A.D. an army of Arabs and Berbers, under their leader Tarik, crossed the strait which still
bears his name [13] and for the first time confronted the Germans. The Visigothic kingdom,
[14] already much enfeebled, proved to be an easy prey. A single battle made the invaders masters
of half of Spain. Within a few years their hosts swept northward to the Pyrenees. Only small
districts in the northern part of the Spanish peninsula remained unconquered.

THE MOSLEM ADVANCE IN GAUL

The Moslems were not stopped by the Pyrenees. Crossing these mountains, they captured many
of the old Roman cities in the south of Gaul and then advanced to the north, attracted, apparently,
by the booty to be found in Christian monasteries and churches. In the vicinity of Tours they
encountered the great army which Charles Martel, the chief minister of the Frankish king, [15]
had collected to oppose their advance.

BATTLE OF TOURS, 732 A.D.

The battle of Tours seems to have continued for several days. Of its details we know nothing,
though a Spanish chronicler tells us that the heavy infantry of the Franks stood "immovable
as a wall, inflexible as a block of ice" against the desperate assaults of the Moslem horsemen.
When the Franks, after the last day's fighting, wished to renew the struggle, they found that
the enemy had fled, leaving a camp filled with the spoils of war. This engagement, though famous
in history, was scarcely decisive. For some time afterward the Moslems maintained themselves
in southern Gaul. It was the Frankish ruler, Pepin the Short, who annexed their possessions
there and drove them back across the Pyrenees to Spain. [16]

135. THE CALIPHATE AND ITS DISRUPTION, 632-1058 A.D.

THE FOUR "ORTHODOX" CALIPHS, 632-661 A.D.

Only eighteen years after the battle of Tours, the Arabian Empire was divided into two rival
and more or less hostile parts, which came to be called the Eastern and Western caliphates.
The title of caliph, meaning "successor" or "representative," had first been assumed by Mohammed's
father-in-law, Abu Bekr, who was chosen to succeed the prophet as the civil and religious head
of the Moslem world. After him followed Omar, who had been one of Mohammed's most faithful
adherents, and then Othman and Ali, both sons-in-law of Mohammed. These four rulers are sometimes
known as the "Orthodox" caliphs, because their right to the succession was universally acknowledged
by Moslems.

OMMIAD CALIPHS AT DAMASCUS, 661-750 A.D.

After Ali's death the governor of Syria, Moawiya by name, succeeded in making himself caliph
of the Moslem world. This usurper converted the caliphate into a hereditary, instead of an
elective, office, and established the dynasty of the Ommiads. [17] Their capital was no longer
Medina in Arabia, but the Syrian city of Damascus. The descendants of Mohammed's family refused,
however, to recognize the Ommiads as legitimate caliphs. In 750 A.D. a sudden revolt, headed
by the party of the Abbasids, [18] established a new dynasty. The Abbasids treacherously murdered
nearly all the members of the Ommiad family, but one survivor escaped to Spain, where he founded
at Cordova an independent Ommiad dynasty. [19] North Africa, also, before long separated itself
from Abbasid rule. Thus the once united caliphate, like the old Roman Empire, split in twain.

THE ABBASID CALIPHS, 750-1058 A.D.

The Abbasids continued to reign over the Moslems in Asia for more than three hundred years.
The most celebrated of Abbasid caliphs was Harun-al- Rashid (Aaron the Just), a contemporary
of Charlemagne, to whom the Arab ruler sent several presents, including an elephant and a water-clock
which struck the hours. The tales of Harun-al-Rashid's magnificence, his gold and silver, his
silks and gems, his rugs and tapestries, reflect the luxurious life of the Abbasid rulers.
Gradually, however, their power declined, and in 1058 A.D. the Seljuk Turks, [20] recent converts
to Islam, deprived them of their power. A Turkish chieftain, with the title of "King of the
East and West," then took the place of the Arabian caliph, though the latter remained the religious
head of Islam. He lost even this spiritual authority, just two centuries later, when the Mongols
from central Asia overran the Turkish dominions. [21]

BAGDAD

The Abbasids removed their capital from Damascus to Bagdad on the banks of the middle Euphrates.
The new city, under the fostering care of the caliphs, grew with great rapidity. Its population
in the ninth century is said to have reached two millions. For a time it was the largest and
richest city in the Moslem world. How its splendor impressed the imagination may be seen from
the stories of the Thousand and One Nights. [22] After the extinction of the Abbasid caliphate,
its importance as the religious and political center of Islam declined. But memories of the
former grandeur of Bagdad still cling to it, and even to-day it is referred to in Turkish official
documents as the "glorious city."

EXTINCTION OF THE ARABIAN EMPIRE A MISFORTUNE

It was a very great misfortune for the eastern world when the Arabian Empire passed under the
control of rude Asiatic peoples. The Turks accepted Islam, but they did little to preserve
and extend Arabian civilization. The stagnant, non-progressive condition of the East at the
present time is largely due to the misgovernment of its Turkish conquerors.

136. ARABIAN CIVILIZATION

THE ARABS AS ABSORBERS OF CIVILIZATION

The great Moslem cities of Bagdad, Damascus, Cairo, and Cordova were not only seats of government
for the different divisions of the Arabian Empire; they were also the centers of Arabian civilization.
The conquests of the Arabs had brought them into contact with highly developed peoples whose
culture they absorbed and to some extent improved. They owed most to Persia and, after Persia,
to Greece, through the empire at Constantinople, In their hands there was somewhat the same
fusion of East and West as Alexander the Great had sought to accomplish. [23] Greek science
and philosophy mingled with the arts of Persia and other Oriental lands. Arabian civilization,
for about four centuries under the Ommiad and Abbasid caliphs, far surpassed anything to be
found in western Europe.

AGRICULTURE

Many improvements in agriculture were due to the Arabs. They had a good system of irrigation,
practiced rotation of crops, employed fertilizers, and understood how to graft and produce
new varieties of plants and fruits. From the Arabs we have received cotton, flax, hemp, buckwheat,
rice, sugar cane, and coffee, various vegetables, including asparagus, artichokes, and beans,
and such fruits as melons, oranges, lemons, apricots, and plums.

MANUFACTURING

The Arabs excelled in various manufactures. Damascus was famous for its brocades, tapestries,
and blades of tempered steel. The Moorish cities in Spain had also their special productions:
Cordova, leather; Toledo, armor; and Granada, rich silks. Arab craftsmen taught the Venetians
to make crystal and plate glass. The work of Arab potters and weavers was at once the admiration
and despair of its imitators in western Europe. The Arabs knew the secrets of dyeing and they
made a kind of paper. Their textile fabrics and articles of metal were distinguished for beauty
of design and perfection of workmanship. European peoples during the early Middle Ages received
the greater part of their manufactured articles of luxury through the Arabs. [24]

COMMERCE

The products of Arab farms and workshops were carried far and wide throughout medieval lands.
The Arabs were keen merchants, and Mohammed had expressly encouraged commerce by declaring
it agreeable to God. The Arabs traded with India, China, the East Indies (Java and Sumatra),
the interior of Africa, Russia, and even with the Baltic lands. Bagdad, which commanded both
land and water routes, was the chief center of this commerce, but other cities of western Asia,
North Africa, and Spain shared in its advantages. The bazaar, or merchants' quarter, was found
in every Moslem city.

GEOGRAPHICAL KNOWLEDGE

The trade of the Arabs, their wide conquests, and their religious pilgrimages to Mecca vastly
increased their knowledge of the world. They were the best geographers of the Middle Ages.
An Abbasid caliph, the son of Harun-al-Rashid, had the Greek Geography of Ptolemy [25] translated
into Arabic and enriched the work with illuminated maps. Arab scholars compiled encyclopedias
describing foreign countries and peoples, constructed celestial spheres, and measured closely
the arc of the meridian in order to calculate the size of the earth. There is some reason to
believe that the mariner's compass was first introduced into Europe by the Arabs. The geographical
knowledge of Christian peoples during the Middle Ages owed much, indeed, to their Moslem forerunners.

EDUCATION

Schools and universities flourished in Moslem lands when Christian Europe was still in the
"Dark Ages." The largest institution of learning was at Cairo, where the lectures of the professors
were attended by thousands of students. Famous universities also existed in Bagdad and Cordova.
Moslem scholars especially delighted in the study of philosophy. Arabic translations of Aristotle's
[26] writings made the ideas of that great thinker familiar to the students of western Europe,
where the knowledge of Greek had all but died out. The Arabs also formed extensive libraries
of many thousands of manuscripts, all carefully arranged and catalogued. Their libraries and
universities, especially in Spain, were visited by many Christians, who thus became acquainted
with Moslem learning and helped to introduce it into Europe.

CHEMISTRY AND MEDICINE

The Arabs have been considered to be the founders of modern experimental science. They were
relatively skillful chemists, for they discovered a number of new compounds (such as alcohol,
aqua regia, nitric acid, and corrosive sublimate) and understood the preparation of mercury
and of various oxides of metals. In medicine the Arabs based their investigations on those
of the Greeks, [27] but made many additional contributions to the art of healing. They studied
physiology and hygiene, dissected the human body, performed difficult surgical operations,
used anaesthetics, and wrote treatises on such diseases as measles and smallpox. Arab medicine
and surgery were studied by the Christian peoples of Europe throughout the later period of
the Middle Ages.

MATHEMATICS AND ASTRONOMY

The Arabs had a strong taste for mathematics. Here again they carried further the old Greek
investigations. In arithmetic they used the so- called "Arabic" figures, which were probably
borrowed from India. The Arabic numerals gradually supplanted in western Europe the awkward
Roman numerals. In geometry the Arabs added little to Euclid, but algebra is practically their
creation. An Arabic treatise on algebra long formed the textbook of the subject in the universities
of Christian Europe. Spherical trigonometry and conic sections are Arabic inventions. This
mathematical knowledge enabled the Arabs to make considerable progress in astronomy. Observatories
at Bagdad and Damascus were erected as early as the ninth century. Some of the astronomical
instruments which they constructed, including the sextant and the gnomon, are still in use. [28]

ROMANCE AND POETRY

In prose and verse there are two Moslem productions which have attained wide popularity in
European lands. The first work is the Thousand and One Nights, a collection of tales written
in Arabic and describing life and manners at the court of the Abbasids. The book, as we now
have it, seems to have been composed as late as the fifteenth century, but it borrows much
from earlier Arabic sources. Many of the tales are of Indian or Persian origin, but all have
a thoroughly Moslem coloring. The second work is the Rubaiyat of the astronomer-poet of Persia,
Omar Khayyam, who wrote about the beginning of the twelfth century. His Rubaiyat is a little
volume of quatrains, about five hundred in all, distinguished for wit, satirical power, and
a vein of melancholy, sometimes pensive, sometimes passionate. These characteristics of Omar's
poetry have made it widely known in the western world. [29]

ARCHITECTURE

Painting and sculpture owe little to the Arabs, but their architecture, based in part on Byzantine
and Persian models, reached a high level of excellence. Swelling domes, vaulted roofs, arched
porches, tall and graceful minarets, and the exquisite decorative patterns known as "arabesques"
make many Arab buildings miracles of beauty. Glazed tiles, mosaics, and jeweled glass were
extensively used for ornamentation. From the first the Arab builders adopted the pointed arch;
they introduced it into western Europe; and it became a characteristic feature of Gothic cathedrals.
[30] Among the best-known of Arab buildings are the so-called "Mosque of Omar" at Jerusalem,
[31] the Great Mosque of Cordova, and that architectural gem, the Alhambra at Granada. Many
features of Moorish art were taken over by the Spaniards, who reproduced them in the cathedrals
and missions of Mexico and California.

137. THE INFLUENCE OF ISLAM

GROWTH OF ISLAM

The division of the Arabian Empire into rival caliphates did not check the spread of Islam.
The Turks and Mongols during the Middle Ages carried it to the uttermost regions of Asia and
throughout southeastern Europe. Some parts of the territory thus gained by it have since been
lost. Spain and the Balkan peninsula are once more Christian lands. In other parts of the world,
and notably in Africa and India, the religion of Mohammed is spreading faster than any other
creed. Islam to-day claims about two hundred million adherents.

THE BENEFITS OF ISLAM

The growth of Islam is evidence that it meets the needs of Asiatic and African peoples. Its
simple creed--the unity of God, man's immortal soul, and material rewards and penalties in
a future life--adapt it to the understanding of half-civilized peoples. As a religion it is
immeasurably superior to the rude nature worship and idolatry which it has supplanted. The
same is true of Islam as a system of morality. The practice of the virtues recommended by the
Koran and the avoidance of the vices which that book condemns tend to raise its adherents in
the moral scale.

TREATMENT OF WOMEN

From the moral standpoint one of the least satisfactory features of Islam is its attitude toward
women. The ancient Arabs, like many other peoples, seem to have set no limit to the number
of wives a man might possess. Women were regarded by them as mere chattels, and female infants
were frequently put to death. Mohammed recognized polygamy, but limited the number of legitimate
wives to four. At the same time Mohammed sought to improve the condition of women by forbidding
female infanticide, by restricting the facilities for divorce, and by insisting on kind treatment
of wives by their husbands. "The best of you," he said, "is he who behaves best to his wives."
According to eastern custom Moslem women are secluded in a separate part of the house, called
the harem. [32] They never appear in public, except when closely veiled from the eyes of strangers.
Their education is also much neglected.

SLAVERY

Slavery, like polygamy, was a custom which Mohammed found fully established among the Arabs.
He disliked slavery and tried in several ways to lessen its evils. He declared that the emancipation
of Moslem slaves was an act of special merit, and ordered that in a war between Moslems the
prisoners were not to be enslaved. Mohammed also insisted on kind treatment of slaves by their
masters. "Feed your slaves," he directed, "with food of that which you eat and clothe them
with such clothing as you wear, and command them not to do that which they are unable to do."
The condition of Moslem slaves does not appear to be intolerable, though the slave traffic
which still exists in some parts of Africa is a disgrace to Islam.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate the Arabian Empire at its widest extent. Locate the more important
cities, including Mecca, Medina, Jerusalem, Damascus, Bagdad, Cairo, Alexandria, Granada, Cordova,
and Seville.

2. Define the following: Kaaba; Islam; Koran; and caliph.

3. How did the geographical situation of Arabia preserve it from being conquered by Persians,
Macedonians, or Romans?

4. Why had the Arabs, until the time of Mohammed, played so inconspicuous a part in the history
of the world?

5. Mohammed "began as a mule driver and ended as both a pope and a king." Explain this statement.

6. How does Mohammed's career in Mecca illustrate the saying that "a prophet is not without
honor save in his own country"?

7. What resemblances may be traced between Islam on the one side and Judaism and Christianity
on the other side?

8. Did religion have anything to do with the migrations of the Germans? How was it with the Arabs?

9. Contrast the methods of propagating Christianity in Europe with those of spreading Islam
in Asia.

10. Why is the defeat of the Moslems before Constantinople regarded as more significant than
their defeat at the battle of Tours?

11. Compare the eastern limits of the Arabian Empire with those of Alexander's empire (maps
facing pages 124, 376).

12. Show that the Arabian Empire, because of its geographical position, was less easily defended
than the Roman Empire.

13. Locate on the map facing page 376 the following commercial cities in the Arabian Empire:
Samarkand; Cabul; Bokhara; Mosul; Kairwan; Fez; Seville; and Toledo.

14. Can you suggest any reason why the Arabs did little in painting and sculpture?

15. What are some of the best-known stories in the Thousand and One Nights?

16. Discuss the justice of this statement: "If our ideas and our arts go back to antiquity,
all the inventions which make life easy and agreeable come to us from the Arabs."

17. "From the eighth to the twelfth century the world knew but two civilizations, that of Byzantium
and that of the Arabs." Comment on this statement.

18. Show that Islam was an heir to the Graeco-Oriental civilization.

19. Can you suggest any reasons why Islam to-day spreads among the African negroes more rapidly
than Christianity?

20. How does Islam, by sanctioning polygamy and slavery, hinder the rise of women and of the
working classes?

[2] The earlier spelling was Mahomet.

[3] See page 352.
 [4] From the Arabic muslim, "one who surrenders himself" (to God's
will). During the Middle Ages the Moslems to their Christian enemies were
commonly known as Saracens, a term which is still in use.

[5] The year 622 A.D., in which the Hegira occurred, marks the beginning of the Mohammedan
era. The Christian year 1917 A.D. nearly corresponds to the Mohammedan year 1336 A.H. (Anno
Hegirae).

[6] Feasting during the nights of this month is allowable.

[7] See page 333.

[8] See page 219, 332.

[9] See page 54, note 1.

[10] See page 330.

[11] See page 245.

[12] Morocco, Algeria, and Tunis belong to France; Tripoli, to Italy.

[13] Gibraltar = Gibal al Tarik, "the mountain of Tarik."

[14] See pages 244-245.

[15] See page 306.

[16] For Charlemagne's Spanish conquests, see page 309.

[17] So called from a leading family of Mecca, to which Moawiya belonged.

[18] So called from Abbas, an uncle of Mohammed.

[19] This was at first known as the emirate of Cordova, but in 929 A.D. it became the caliphate
of Cordova. See the map facing page 308.

[20] See page 333.

[21] See page 485. Descendants of the Abbasids subsequently took up their abode in Egypt. Through
them the claim to the caliphate passed in 1538 A.D. to the Ottoman Turks. The Sultan at Constantinople
still calls himself caliph of the Moslem world. However, in 1916 A.D. the Grand Sherif of Mecca,
a descendant of Mohammed, led a revolt against the Turks, captured Mecca and Medina, and proclaimed
Arab independence. Should the European war end in favor of the Allies, the caliphate will undoubtedly
go back to the Arabs.

[22] Popularly called the Arabian Nights.

[23] See page 126.

[24] The European names of some common articles reveal the Arabic sources from which they were
first derived. Thus, damask comes from Damascus, muslin from Mosul, gauze from Gaza, cordovan
(a kind of leather) from Cordova, and morocco leather from North Africa.

[25] See page 133.

[26] See page 275.

[27] See page 131.

[28] Many words in European languages beginning with the prefix al (the definite article in
Arabic) show how indebted was Europe to the Arabs for scientific knowledge. In English these
words include alchemy (whence chemistry), alcohol, alembic, algebra, alkali, almanac, Aldebaran
(the star), etc.

[29] The translation of the Rubaiyat by Edward Fitzgerald is almost an English classic.

[30] See page 564.

[31] See the illustration, page 471.

[32] The Athenians had a similar practice. See page 257.

CHAPTER XVII

THE NORTHMEN AND THE NORMANS TO 1066 A.D. [1]

138. SCANDINAVIA AND THE NORTHMEN

A NEW SERIES OF MIGRATIONS

From the East we return once more to the West, from Asia to Europe, from Arabia to Scandinavia.
We have now to deal with the raids and settlements of the Norsemen or Northmen. Like the Arabs
the Northmen quitted a sterile peninsula and went forth to find better homes in distant lands.
Their invasions, beginning toward the close of the eighth century, lasted about three hundred
years.

A TEUTONIC MOVEMENT

The Northmen belonged to the Teutonic family of peoples. They were kinsmen of the Germans,
the Anglo-Saxons, and the Dutch. Their migrations may be regarded, therefore, as the last wave
of that great Teutonic movement which in earlier times had inundated western Europe and overwhelmed
the Roman Empire.

SCANDINAVIA

The Northmen lived, as their descendants still live, in Denmark, Sweden, and Norway. The name
Scandinavia is sometimes applied to all three countries, but more commonly it is restricted
to the peninsula comprising Sweden and Norway.

SWEDEN

Sweden, with the exception of the northern highlands, is mostly a level region, watered by
copious streams, dotted with many lakes, and sinking down gradually to the Baltic Sea and the
Gulf of Bothnia. The fact that Sweden faces these inland waters determined the course of her
development as a nation. She never has had any aspirations to become a great oceanic power.
Her whole historic life has centered about the Baltic.

NORWAY

Norway, in contrast to Sweden, faces the Atlantic. The country is little more than a strip
of rugged seacoast reaching northward to well within the Arctic Circle. Were it not for the
influence of the "Gulf Stream drift," much of Norway would be a frozen waste for the greater
part of the year. Vast forests of fir, pine, and birch still cover the greater part of the
country, and the land which can be used for farming and grazing does not exceed eleven per
cent of the entire area. But Norway, like Greece, [2] has an extent of shore-line out of all
proportion to its superficial area. So numerous are the fiords, or inlets of the sea, that
the total length of the coast approximates twelve thousand miles. Slight wonder that the Vikings,
[3] as they called themselves, should feel the lure of the ocean and should put forth their
frail barks upon the "pathway of the swans" in search of booty and adventure.

PREHISTORIC TIMES IN SCANDINAVIA

The Swedes and Norwegians, together with their kinsmen, the Danes, probably settled in Scandinavia
long before the beginning of the Christian era. During the earlier part of the prehistoric
period the inhabitants were still in the Stone Age, but the use of bronze, and then of iron,
was gradually introduced. Excavations in ancient grave mounds have revealed implements of the
finest polished stone, beautiful bronze swords, and coats of iron ring mail, besides gold and
silver ornaments which may have been imported from southern Europe. The ancient Scandinavians
have left to us curious records of the past in their picture writing chiseled on the flat surface
of rocks. The objects represented include boats with as many as thirty men in them, horses
drawing two-wheeled carts, spans of oxen, farmers engaged in ploughing, and warriors on horseback.
By the close of the prehistoric period the northern peoples were also familiar with a form
of the Greek alphabet (the "runes" [4]) and with the art of writing.

139. THE VIKING AGE

DAWN OF HISTORY IN SCANDINAVIA

The Viking Age, with which historic times begin in northern Europe, extends from about 800
A.D. to the introduction of Christianity in the tenth and eleventh centuries. This was the
period when the Northmen, or Vikings, realizing that the sea offered the quickest road to wealth
and conquest, began to make long voyages to foreign lands. In part they went as traders and
exchanged the furs, wool, and fish of Scandinavia for the clothing, ornaments, and other articles
of luxury found in neighboring countries. But it was no far cry from merchant to freebooter,
and, in fact, expeditions for the sake of plunder seem to have been even more popular with
the Northmen than peaceful commerce.

THE NORTHMEN AS SAILORS

Whether the Northmen engaged in trade or in warfare, good ships and good seamanship were indispensable
to them. They became the boldest sailors of the early Middle Ages. No longer hugging the coast,
as timid mariners had always done before them, the Northmen pushed out into the uncharted main
and steered their course only by observation of the sun and stars. In this way the Northmen
were led to make those remarkable explorations in the Atlantic Ocean and the polar seas which
added so greatly to geographical knowledge.

SHIPS OF THE NORTHMEN

It was not uncommon for a Viking chieftain, after his days of sea-roving had ended, to be buried
in his ship, over which a grave chamber, covered with earth, would be erected. The discovery
of several of these burial ships enables us to form a good idea of Viking vessels. The largest
of them might reach a length of seventy feet and hold as many as one hundred and twenty men.
A fleet of the Northmen, carrying several thousand warriors, mail-clad and armed with spears,
swords, and battle-axes, was indeed formidable. During this period the Northmen were the masters
of the sea, as far as western Europe was concerned. This fact largely explains their successful
campaigns.

THE SAGAS

A very important source of information for the Viking Age consists of the writings called sagas.
[5] These narratives are in prose, but they were based, in many instances, on the songs which
the minstrels (skalds) sang to appreciative audiences assembled at the banqueting board of
a Viking chieftain. It was not until the twelfth and thirteenth centuries that the sagas were
committed to writing. This was done chiefly in Iceland, and so it happens that we must look
to that distant island for the beginnings of Scandinavian literature.

SUBJECT MATTER OF THE SAGAS

The sagas belong to different classes. The oldest of them relate the deeds of Viking heroes
and their families. Others deal with the lives of Norwegian kings. Some of the most important
sagas describe the explorations and settlements of the Northmen and hence possess considerable
value as historical records.

THE NORTHMEN AS SEEN IN THE SAGAS

The sagas throw much light on the character of the Northmen. Love of adventure and contempt
for the quiet joys of home comes out in the description of Viking chiefs, who "never sought
refuge under a roof nor emptied their drinking-horns by a hearth." An immense love of fighting
breathes in the accounts of Viking warriors, "who are glad when they have hopes of a battle;
they will leap up in hot haste and ply the oars, snapping the oar-thongs and cracking the tholes."
The undaunted spirit of Viking sailors, braving the storms of the northern ocean, expresses
itself in their sea songs: "The force of the tempest assists the arms of our oarsmen; the hurricane
is our servant, it drives us whithersoever we wish to go." The sagas also reveal other characteristics
of the Northmen: a cruelty and faithlessness which made them a terror to their foes; an almost
barbaric love of gay clothing and ornament; a strong sense of public order, giving rise to
an elaborate legal system; and even a feeling for the romantic beauty of their northern home,
with its snow-clad mountains, dark forests of pine, sparkling waterfalls, and deep, blue fiords.

EDDAIC POEMS

It is to the Viking Age also that we owe the composition of the poems going by the name of
the Elder Edda. These poems, as well as the prose sagas, were collected and arranged in Iceland
during the later Middle Ages. The Elder Edda is a storehouse of old Norse mythology. It forms
our chief source of knowledge concerning Scandinavian heathenism before the introduction of
Christianity.

140. SCANDINAVIAN HEATHENISM

THE GOD ODIN

The religion of the Northmen bore a close resemblance to that of the other Teutonic peoples.
The leading deity was Odin (German Woden), whose exploits are celebrated in many of the songs
of the Elder Edda. Odin was represented as a tall, gray-bearded chieftain, carrying a shield
and a spear which never missed its mark. Though a god of battle, Odin was also a lover of wisdom.
He discovered the runes which gave him secret knowledge of all things. Legend told how Odin
killed a mighty giant, whose body was cut into pieces to form the world: the earth was his
flesh, the water his blood, the rocks his bones, and the heavens his skull. Having created
the world and peopled it with human beings, Odin retired to the sacred city of Asgard, where
he reigned in company with his children.

THE GOD THOR

Enthroned beside Odin sat his oldest son, Thor (German Thunor), god of thunder and lightning.
His weapon, the thunderbolt, was imagined as a hammer, and was especially used by him to protect
gods and men against the giants. The hammer, when thrown, returned to his hand of its own accord.
Thor also possessed a belt of strength, which, when girded about him, doubled his power.

THOR'S DEEDS OF STRENGTH

Many stories were told of Thor's adventures, when visiting Joetunheim, the abode of the giants.
In a drinking-match he tried to drain a horn of liquor, not knowing that one end of the horn
reached the sea, which was appreciably lowered by the god's huge draughts. He sought to lift
from the ground a large, gray cat, but struggle as he might, could raise only one of the animal's
feet. What Thor took for a cat, however, was really the Midgard serpent, which, with its tail
in its mouth, encircled the earth. In the last trial of strength Thor wrestled with an old
woman, and after a violent contest was thrown down upon one knee. But the hag was in truth
relentless old age, who sooner or later lays low all men.

MYTH OF BALDER

Most beautiful and best beloved of the Scandinavian divinities was Odin's son, Balder. He was
represented as a gentle deity of innocence and righteousness. As long as he lived, evil could
gain no real control in the world and the power of the gods would remain unshaken. To preserve
Balder from all danger his mother Frigga required everything on earth to swear never to harm
her son. Only a single plant, the mistletoe, did not take the oath. Then the traitor Loki gathered
the mistletoe and came to an assembly where the gods were hurling all kinds of missiles at
Balder, to show that nothing could hurt him. Loki asked the blind Hoeder to throw the plant
at Balder. Hoeder did so, and Balder fell dead. The gods tried to recover him from Hel, the
gloomy underworld, but Hel demanded as his ransom a tear from every living creature. Gods,
men, and even things inanimate wept for Balder, except one cruel giantess--Loki in disguise--
who would not give a single tear. She said, "Neither living nor dead was Balder of any use
to me. Let Hel keep what it has."

"TWILIGHT OF THE GODS"

Disasters followed Balder's death. An immense fire burned up the world and the human race.
The giants invaded Asgard and slaughtered its inhabitants. Odin fell a victim to the mighty
wolf Fenris. Thor, having killed the Midgard serpent, was suffocated with the venom which the
dying monster cast over him. The end of all things arrived. This was the catastrophe which
had been predicted of old--the "Twilight of the Gods."

VALHALLA

Besides the conception of Hel, the Northmen also framed the idea of Valhalla, [6] the abode
to which Odin received the souls of those who had died, not ingloriously in their beds, but
on the field of battle. A troop of divine maidens, the Valkyries, [7] rode through the air
on Odin's service to determine the issue of battles and to select brave warriors for Valhalla.
There on the broad plains they fought with one another by day, but at evening the slayer and
the slain returned to Odin's hall to feast mightily on boar's flesh and drink deep draughts
of mead.

SUPERNATURAL BEINGS

As with most heathen religions that of the Northmen was full of terrors. Their lively imagination
peopled the world with many strange figures. Fiends and monsters inhabited the marshes, giants
lived in the dark forest, evil spirits haunted all solitary places, and ghosts stalked over
the land by night. The use of charms and spells to guard against such creatures passed over
into Christian times. Their memory also survives in folk tales, which are full of allusions
to giants, dwarfs, goblins, and other supernatural beings.

CHRISTIANIZATION OF THE NORTHMEN

Christianity first gained a foothold in Denmark through the work of Roman Catholic missionaries
sent out by Charlemagne's son, Louis the Pious. [8] Two centuries elapsed before the Danes
were completely converted. From Denmark the new faith spread to Sweden. Norway owed its conversion
largely to the crusading work of King Olaf (1016-1029 A.D.), whose zeal for Christianity won
him the title of Olaf the Saint. The Norwegians carried Christianity to Iceland, where it supplanted
the old heathenism in the year 1000 A.D. With the general adoption of the Christian religion
in Scandinavian lands, the Viking Age drew to an end.

141. THE NORTHMEN IN THE WEST

CAUSES OF THE VIKING MOVEMENT

The Northmen were still heathen when they set forth on their expeditions of plunder and conquest.
Doubtless the principal cause of this Viking movement is to be sought in the same hunger for
land which prompted the Germanic invasions and, in fact, has led to colonial expansion in all
ages. By the ninth century Scandinavia could no longer support its rapidly growing population,
and enforced emigration was the natural consequence. The political condition of Scandinavia
at this time also helps to explain the Viking expansion. Denmark and Norway had now become
strong kingdoms, whose rulers forced all who would not submit to their sway to leave the country.
Thus it resulted that the numbers of the emigrants were swelled by exiles, outlaws, and other
adventurers who turned to the sea in hope of gain.

RAIDS OF THE NORTHMEN

The Northmen started out as pirates and fell on the coasts of England, France, and Germany.
In their shallow boats they also found it easy to ascend the rivers and reach places lying
far inland. The Northmen directed their attacks especially against the churches and monasteries,
which were full of treasure and less easily defended than fortified towns. Their raids inspired
such great terror that a special prayer was inserted in the church services: "From the fury
of the Northmen, good Lord, deliver us."

THE NORTHMEN IN IRELAND, SCOTLAND, AND THE ISLANDS

At first the incursions of the Northmen took place only in summer, but before long they began
to winter in the lands which they visited. Year by year their fleets became larger, and their
attacks changed from mere forays of pirates to well-organized expeditions of conquest and colonization.
Early in the ninth century we find them making permanent settlements in Ireland, and for a
time bringing a considerable part of that country under their control. The first cities on
Irish soil, including Dublin and Limerick, were founded by the Northmen. Almost simultaneously
with the attacks on Ireland came those on the western coast of Scotland. In the course of their
westward expeditions the Northmen had already discovered the Faroe Islands, the Orkneys, the
Shetlands and the Hebrides. These barren and inhospitable islands received large numbers of
Norse immigrants and long remained under Scandinavian control.

THE NORTHMEN IN ICELAND

The Northmen soon discovered Iceland, where Irish monks had previously settled. Colonization
began in 874 A.D. [9] One of the most valuable of the sagas--the "Book of the Land-taking"--describes
the emigration to the island and enumerates the Viking chiefs who took part in the movement.
Iceland soon became almost a second Norway in language, literature, and customs. It remains
to-day an outpost of Scandinavian civilization.

THE NORTHMEN IN GREENLAND

The first settlement of Greenland was the work of an Icelander, Eric the Red, who reached the
island toward the end of the tenth century. He called the country Greenland, not because it
was green, but because, as he said, "there is nothing like a good name to attract settlers."
Intercourse between Greenland and Iceland was often dangerous, and at times was entirely interrupted
by ice. Leif Ericsson, the son of Eric the Red, established a new route of commerce and travel
by sailing from Greenland to Norway by way of the Hebrides. This was the first voyage made
directly across the Atlantic. Norway and Greenland continued to enjoy a flourishing trade for
several centuries. After the connection with Norway had been severed, the Greenlanders joined
the Eskimos and mingled with that primitive people.

THE NORTHMEN IN AMERICA

Two of the sagas give accounts of a voyage which Leif Ericsson about 1000 A.D. made to regions
lying southward from Greenland. In the sagas they are called Helluland (stone-land), Markland
(wood-land), and Vinland. Just what part of the coast of North America these countries occupied
is an unsolved problem. Leif Ericsson and the Greenlanders who followed him seem to have reached
at least the shores of Labrador, Newfoundland, and Nova Scotia. They may have gone even farther
southward, for the sagas describe regions where the climate was mild enough for wild vines
and wild wheat to grow. The Northmen, however, did not follow up their explorations by lasting
settlements. Before long all memory of the far western lands faded from the minds of men. The
curtain fell on the New World, not again to rise until the time of Columbus and Cabot.

142. THE NORTHMEN IN THE EAST

ARCTIC EXPLORATIONS OF THE NORTHMEN

In the Viking movement westward across the Atlantic the Norwegians took the leading part. They
also sailed far northward, rounding the North Cape and reaching the mouth of the Dwina River
in the White Sea. Viking sailors, therefore, have the credit for undertaking the first voyages
of exploration into the Arctic.

THE NORTHMEN IN FINLAND

The Swedes, on account of their geographical position, were naturally the most active in expeditions
to eastern lands. At a very early date they crossed the Gulf of Bothnia and paid frequent visits
to Finland. Its rude inhabitants, the Finns, were related in language, and doubtless in blood
also, to the Huns, Magyars, and other Asiatic peoples. Sweden ruled Finland throughout the
Middle Ages. Russia obtained control of the country during the eighteenth century, but Swedish
influence has made it largely Scandinavian in civilization.

THE NORTHMEN IN RUSSIA

The activities of the Swedes also led them to establish settlements on the southern shore of
the Baltic and far inland along the waterways leading into Russia. An old Russian chronicler
declares that in 862 A.D. the Slavs sent an embassy to the Swedes, whom they called "Rus,"
saying, "Our country is large and rich, but there is no order in it; come and rule over us."
The Swedes were not slow to accept the invitation. Their leader, Ruric, established a dynasty
which reigned in Russia for more than seven hundred years. [10]

NOVGOROD AND KIEV

The first Russian state centered in the city of Novgorod, near Lake Ilmen, where Ruric built
a strong fortress. [11] Novgorod during the Middle Ages was an important station on the trade
route between Constantinople and the Baltic. Some of Ruric's followers, passing southward along
the Dnieper River, took possession of the small town of Kiev. It subsequently became the capital
of the Scandinavian possessions in Russia.

SCANDINAVIAN INFLUENCE IN RUSSIA

The Northmen in Russia maintained close intercourse with their mother country for about two
centuries. During this period they did much to open up northeastern Europe to the forces of
civilization and progress. Colonies were founded, cities were built, commerce was fostered,
and a stable government was established. Russia under the sway of the Northmen became for the
first time a truly European state.

THE NORTHMEN AND THE ROMAN EMPIRE IN THE EAST

Having penetrated the wilds of Russia, it was comparatively easy for the Northmen to sail down
the Russian rivers to the Black Sea and thence to Constantinople. Some of them went as raiders
and several times devastated the neighborhood of Constantinople, until bought off by the payment
of tribute. [12] Many Northmen also joined the bodyguard of the eastern emperor and saw service
under his standard in different parts of the Mediterranean.

CHRISTIANITY IN RUSSIA, 988 A.D.

During the reign of Vladimir, a descendant of Ruric, the Christian religion gained its first
foothold in Russia. We are told that Vladimir, having made up his mind to embrace a new faith,
sent commissioners to Rome and Constantinople, and also to the adherents of Islam and Judaism.
His envoys reported in favor of the Greek Church, for their barbarian imagination had been
so impressed by the majesty of the ceremonies performed in Sancta Sophia that "they did not
know whether they were on earth or in heaven." Vladimir accepted their report, ordered the
idols of Kiev to be thrown into the Dnieper, and had himself and his people baptized according
to the rites of the Greek Church. At the same time he married a sister of the reigning emperor
at Constantinople.

IMPORTANCE OF THE CONVERSION OF RUSSIA

Vladimir's decision to adopt the Greek form of Christianity is justly regarded as one of the
formative influences in Russian history. It meant that the Slavs were to come under the religious
influence of Constantinople, instead of under that of Rome. Furthermore, it meant that Byzantine
civilization, then incomparably superior to the rude culture of the western peoples, would
henceforth gain an entrance into Russia. The country profited by this rich civilization and
during the early part of the Middle Ages took a foremost place in Europe.

CHARLEMAGNE AND THE NORTHMEN

No part of western Europe suffered more severely from the Northmen than France. They first
appeared on the French coast toward the end of Charlemagne's reign. A well-known legend relates
that the emperor, from window of his palace once saw the dark sails of the Vikings and wept
at the thought of the misery which these daring pirates would some day inflict upon his realm.

THE NORTHMEN IN FRANCE

After Charlemagne's death the wars of his grandsons left the empire defenseless, and the Northmen
in consequence redoubled their attacks. They sailed far up the Seine, the Loire, and the Garonne
to plunder and murder. Paris, then a small but important city, lay in the path of the invaders
and more than once suffered at their hands. The destruction by the Northmen of many monasteries
was a loss to civilization, for the monastic establishments at this time were the chief centers
of learning and culture. [13]

THE NORTHMEN IN GERMANY

The heavy hand of the Northmen also descended on Germany. The rivers Scheldt, Meuse, Rhine,
and Elbe enabled them to proceed at will into the heart of the country. Liege, Cologne, Strassburg,
Hamburg, and other great Frankish cities fell before them. Viking raiders even plundered Aachen
and stabled their horses in the church which Charlemagne had built there. [14] Thus the ancient
homeland of the Franks was laid completely waste.

ROLLO AND THE GRANT OF NORMANDY, 911 A.D.

The history of the Northmen in France began in 911 A.D., when the Carolingian king granted
to a Viking chieftain, Rollo, dominion over the region about the lower Seine. Rollo on his
part agreed to accept Christianity and to acknowledge the French ruler as his lord. It is said,
however, that he would not kneel and kiss the king's foot as a mark of homage, and that the
follower who performed the unwelcome duty did it so awkwardly as to overturn the king, to the
great amusement of the assembled Northmen. The story illustrates the Viking sense of independence.

DUCHY OF NORMANDY

The district ceded to Rollo developed into what in later times was known as the duchy of Normandy.
Its Scandinavian settlers, henceforth called Normans, [15] soon became French in language and
culture. It was amazing to see how quickly the descendants of wild sea-rovers put off their
heathen ways and made their new home a Christian land, noted for its churches, monasteries,
and schools. Normandy remained practically independent till the beginning of the thirteenth
century, when a French king added it to his possessions. [16]

THE NORMANS AND HUGH CAPET, 987 A.D.

The Normans helped to found the medieval French monarchy. During the tenth century the old
Carolingian line of rulers, which had already died out in Germany and Italy, [17] came also
to an end in France. A new dynasty was then founded by a nobleman named Hugh Capet, who secured
the aid of the powerful Norman dukes in his efforts to gain the throne. The accession of Hugh
Capet took place in 987 A.D. His descendants reigned over France for almost exactly eight hundred
years. [18]

       *       *       *       *       *

144. CONQUEST OF ENGLAND BY THE DANES; ALFRED THE GREAT

ENGLAND OVERRUN BY THE DANES

Even before Egbert of Wessex succeeded in uniting all the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms, [19] bands
of Vikings, chiefly from Denmark, had made occasional forays on the English coast. Egbert kept
the Danes at bay, but he died in 839 A.D., and from that time the real invasion of England
began. The Danes came over in large numbers, made permanent settlements, and soon controlled
all England north of the Thames.

KING ALFRED AND THE DANES

Wessex before long experienced the full force of the Danish attack. The country at this time
was ruled by Alfred, the grandson of Egbert. Alfred came to the throne in 871 A.D., when he
was only about twenty-three years old. In spite of his youth, he showed himself the right sort
of leader for the hard-pressed West Saxons. For several years fortune favored the Danes. Then
the tide turned. Issuing from the marshes of Somersetshire, where he had rallied his dispirited
troops, Alfred suddenly fell on the enemy and gained a signal success. The beaten Danes agreed
to make peace and to accept the religion of their conquerors.

THE DANELAW

Alfred's victory did not end the war. Indeed, almost to the end of his reign, the heroic king
had to face the Vikings, but he always drove them off and even recovered some of the territory
north of the Thames. The English and Danes finally agreed to a treaty dividing the country
between them. The eastern part of England, where the invaders were firmly established, came
to be called the Danelaw, because here the Danish, and not the Anglo-Saxon, law prevailed.
In the Danelaw the Danes have left memorials of themselves in local names [20] and in the bold,
adventurous character of the inhabitants.

CIVILIZING ACTIVITIES OF ALFRED

It was a well-nigh ruined country which Alfred had now to rule over and build up again. His
work of restoration invites comparison with that of Charlemagne. Alfred's first care was to
organize a fighting force always ready at his call to repel invasion. He also created an efficient
fleet, which patrolled the coast and engaged the Vikings on their own element. He had the laws
of the Anglo-Saxons collected and reduced to writing, taking pains at the same time to see
that justice was done between man and man. He did much to rebuild the ruined churches and monasteries.
Alfred labored with especial diligence to revive education among the English folk. His court
at Winchester became a literary center where learned men wrote and taught. The king himself
mastered Latin, in order that he might translate Latin books into the English tongue. So great
were Alfred's services in this direction that he has been called "the father of English prose."

ALFRED'S CHARACTER

Alfred alone of English rulers bears the title of "the Great." He well deserves it, not only
for what he did but for what he was. Through the mists of ten centuries his figure still looms
large. It is the figure of a brave, patient, and modest man, who wore himself out in the service
of his people. His wish has been fulfilled.

FROM ALFRED TO THE NORMAN CONQUEST, 901-1066 A.D.

About seventy-five years after Alfred's death the Danes renewed their invasions. It then became
necessary to buy them off with an annual tribute called the Danegeld. Early in the eleventh
century Canute, the son of a Danish king, succeeded in establishing himself on the English
throne (1016-1035 A.D.). His dynasty did not last long, however, and at length the old West-Saxon
line was restored in the person of Edward the Confessor (or "the Saint"). Edward had spent
most of his early life in Normandy, and on coming to England brought with him a large following
of Normans, whom he placed in high positions. During his reign (1042-1066 A.D.) Norman nobles
and churchmen gained a foothold in England, thus preparing the way for the Norman conquest
of the country.

145. NORMAN CONQUEST OF ENGLAND; WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR

HAROLD AND WILLIAM

Edward the Confessor having left no direct heirs, the choice of his successor fell lawfully
upon the Witenagemot, [21] as the national assembly of noblemen and higher clergy was called.
This body chose as king, Harold, earl of Wessex, the leading man in England. Harold's right
to the succession was disputed by William, duke of Normandy, who declared that the crown had
been promised to him by his cousin, the Confessor. William also asserted that Harold had once
sworn a solemn oath, over a chest of sacred relics, to support his claim to the throne on Edward's
death. When word came of Harold's election, William wrathfully denounced him as a usurper and
began to prepare a fleet and an army for the invasion of England.

WILLIAM'S PREPARATIONS

Normandy under Duke William had become a powerful, well-organized state. Norman knights, attracted
by promises of wide lands and rich booty, if they should conquer, formed the core of William's
forces. Adventurers from every part of France, and even from Spain and Italy, also entered
his service. The pope blessed the enterprise and sent to William a ring containing a hair from
St. Peter's head and a consecrated banner. When all was ready in the late fall of 1066 A.D.,
a large fleet, bearing five or six thousand archers, foot soldiers, and horsemen, crossed the
Channel and landed in England.

BATTLE OF HASTINGS, 1066 A.D.

William at first met no resistance. Harold was far away in the north fighting against the Norwegians,
who had seized the opportunity to make another descent on the English coast. Harold defeated
them decisively and then hurried southward to face his new foe. The two armies met near Hastings
on the road to London. All day they fought. The stout English infantry, behind their wall of
shields, threw back one charge after another of the Norman knights. Again and again the duke
rallied his men and led them where the foe was thickest. A cry arose that he was slain. "I
live," shouted William, tearing off his helmet that all might see his face, "and by God's help
will conquer yet." At last, with the approach of evening, Harold was killed by an arrow; his
household guard died about him; and the rest of the English took to flight. William pitched
his camp on the field of victory, and "sat down to eat and drink among the dead."

WILLIAM BECOMES KING

The battle of Hastings settled the fate of England. Following up his victory with relentless
energy, William pressed on to London. That city, now practically the capital of the country,
opened its gates to him. The Witenagemot, meeting in London offered the throne to William.
On Christmas Day, 1066 A.D., in Westminster Abbey the duke of Normandy was crowned king of England.

WILLIAM'S PERSONALITY

What manner of man was William the Conqueror? Tall of stature, endowed with tremendous strength,
and brave even to desperation, he seemed an embodiment of the old viking spirit. "No knight
under heaven," men said truly, "was William's peer." A savage temper and a harsh, forbidding
countenance made him a terror even to his closest followers. "So stern and wrathful was he,"
wrote an English chronicler, "that none durst do anything against his will." Though William
never shrank from force or fraud, from bloodshed or oppression, to carry out his ends, he yet
showed himself throughout his reign a patron of learning, a sincere supporter of the Church,
and a statesman of remarkable insight. He has left a lasting impress on English history.

146. RESULTS OF THE NORMAN CONQUEST

NORMAN ELEMENT IN THE ENGLISH PEOPLE

The coming of the Normans to England formed the third and last installment of the Teutonic
invasion. Norman merchants and artisans followed Norman soldiers and settled particularly in
the southern and eastern parts of the island. They seem to have emigrated in considerable numbers
and doubtless added an important element to the English population. The Normans thus completed
the work of the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in making England a Teutonic country.

NORMAN ELEMENT IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE

It must be remembered, however, that the Normans in Normandy had received a considerable intermixture
of French blood and had learned to speak a form of the French language (Norman-French). In
England Norman-French naturally was used by the upper and ruling classes--by the court, the
nobility, and the clergy. The English held fast to their own homely language, but could not
fail to pick up many French expressions, as they mingled with their conquerors in churches,
markets, and other places of public resort. It took about three hundred years for French words
and phrases to soak thoroughly into their speech. The result was a very large addition to the
vocabulary of English. [22]

UNION OF ENGLAND AND NORMANDY

Until the Norman Conquest England, because of its insular position, had remained out of touch
with Continental Europe. William the Conqueror and his immediate successors were, however,
not only rulers of England, but also dukes of Normandy and subjects of the French kings. Hence,
the union of England with Normandy brought it at once into the full current of European affairs.
The country became for a time almost a part of France and profited by the more advanced civilization
which had arisen on French soil. The nobility, the higher clergy, and the officers of government
were Normans. The architects of the castles and churches, the lawyers, and the men of letters
came from Normandy. Even the commercial and industrial classes were largely recruited from
across the Channel.

ENGLAND AND THE PAPACY

The Norman Conquest much increased the pope's authority over England. The English Church, as
has been shown, [23] was the child of Rome, but during the Anglo-Saxon period it had become
more independent of the Papacy than the churches on the Continent. William the Conqueror, whose
invasion of England took place with the pope's approval, repaid his obligation by bringing
the country into closer dependence on the Roman pontiff.

FUSION OF ENGLISH AND NORMAN

Although the Normans settled in England as conquerors, yet after all they were near kinsmen
of the English and did not long keep separate from them. In Normandy a century and a half had
been enough to turn the Northmen into Frenchmen. So in England, at the end of a like period,
the Normans became Englishmen. Some of the qualities that have helped to make the modern English
a great people--their love of the sea and fondness for adventure, their vigor, self-reliance,
and unconquerable spirit--are doubtless derived in good part from the Normans.

147. NORMAN CONQUEST OF SOUTHERN ITALY AND SICILY

NORMAN EXPANSION SOUTHWARD

The conquest of England, judged by its results, proved to be the most important undertaking
of the Normans. But during this same eleventh century they found another field in which to
display their energy and daring. They turned southward to the Mediterranean and created a Norman
state in Italy and Sicily.

CONQUESTS OF ROBERT GUISCARD

The unsettled condition of Italy [24] gave the Normans an opportunity for interference in the
affairs of the country. The founding of Norman power there was largely the work of a noble
named Robert Guiscard ("the Crafty"), a man almost as celebrated as William the Conqueror.
He had set out from his home in Normandy with only a single follower, but his valor and shrewdness
soon brought him to the front. Robert united the scattered bands of Normans in Italy, who were
fighting for pay or plunder, and wrested from the Roman Empire in the East its last territories
in the peninsula. Before his death (1085 A.D.) most of southern Italy had passed under Norman rule.

ROGER GUISCARD'S CONQUESTS

Robert's brother, Roger, crossed the strait of Messina and began the subjugation of Sicily,
then a Moslem possession. Its recovery from the hands of "infidels" was considered by the Normans
a work both pleasing to God and profitable to themselves. By the close of the eleventh century
they had finally established their rule in the island.

KINGDOM OF THE TWO SICILIES

The conquests of the Normans in southern Italy and Sicily were united into a single state,
which came to be known as the kingdom of the Two Sicilies. The Normans governed it for only
about one hundred and fifty years, but under other rulers it lasted until the middle of the
nineteenth century, when the present kingdom of Italy came into existence.

NORMAN CULTURE IN THE SOUTH

The kingdom of the Two Sicilies was well-governed, rich, and strong. Art and learning flourished
in the cities of Naples, Salerno, and Palermo. Southern Italy and Sicily under the Normans
became a meeting-point of Byzantine and Arabic civilization. The Norman kingdom formed an important
channel through which the wisdom of the East flowed to the North and to the West.

148. THE NORMANS IN EUROPEAN HISTORY

NORMAN FACULTY OF ADAPTATION

The conquests of the Normans in England, Italy, and Sicily were effected after they had become
a Christian and a French-speaking people. In these lands they were the armed missionaries of
a civilization not their own. The Normans, indeed, invented little and borrowed much. But,
like the Arabs, they were more than simple imitators. In language, literature, art, religion,
and law what they took from others they improved and then spread abroad throughout their settlements.

ASSIMILATION OF THE NORMANS

It seems at first sight remarkable that a people who occupied so much of western Europe should
have passed away. Normans as Normans no longer exist. They lost themselves in the kingdoms
which they founded and among the peoples whom they subdued. Their rapid assimilation was chiefly
the consequence of their small numbers: outside of Normandy they were too few long to maintain
their identity.

NORMAL INFLUENCE

If the Normans themselves soon disappeared, their influence was more lasting. Their mission,
it has been well said, was to be leaders and energizers of society--"the little leaven that
leaveneth the whole lump." The peoples of medieval Europe owed much to the courage and martial
spirit, the genius for government, and the reverence for law, of the Normans. In one of the
most significant movements of the Middle Ages--the crusades--they took a prominent part. Hence
we shall meet them again.

STUDIES

1. What events are associated with the following dates: 988 A.D.; 862 A.D.; 1066 A.D.; 1000
A.D.; and 987 A.D.?

2. What was the origin of the geographical names Russia, Greenland, Finland, and Normandy?

3. Mention some of the striking physical contrasts between the Arabian and Scandinavian peninsulas.

4. Why has the Baltic Sea been called a "secondary Mediterranean"?

5. How does it happen that the gulf of Finland is often frozen over in winter, while even the
northernmost of the Norse fiords remain open?

6. Why is an acquaintance with Scandinavian mythology, literature, and history especially desirable
for English-speaking peoples?

7. What is meant by the "berserker's rage"?

8. What names of our weekdays are derived from the names of Scandinavian deities?

9. Compare the Arab and Scandinavian conceptions of the future state of departed warriors.

10. What is meant by "sea-power"? What people possessed it during the ninth and tenth centuries?

11. Compare the invasions of the Northmen with those of the Germans as to (a) causes, (b) area
covered, and (c) results.

12. What was the significance of the fact that the Northmen were not Christians at the time
when they began their expeditions?

13. Show how the voyages of the Northmen vastly increased geographical knowledge.

14. Show that the Russian people have received from Constantinople their writing, religion,
and art.

15. Mention three conquests of England by foreign peoples before 1066 A.D. Give for each conquest
the results and the approximate date.

16. On the map, page 405, trace the boundary line between Alfred's possessions and those of
the Danes.

17. Compare Alfred and Charlemagne as civilizing kings.

18. Compare Alfred's cession of the Danelaw with the cession of Normandy to Rollo.

19. Why is Hastings included among "decisive" battles?

20. "We English are not ourselves but somebody else." Comment on this statement.

21. What is meant by the "Norman graft upon the sturdy Saxon tree"?

22. What settlements of the Northmen most influenced European history?

23. Compare the Norman faculty of adaptation with that of the Arabs.

[2] See page 67.

[3] The word perhaps comes from the old Norse vik, a bay, and means "one who dwells by a bay
or fiord." Another meaning assigned to Viking is "warrior."

[4] See the illustration, page 240.

[5] The word is derived from old Norse segya, "to say"; compare German sagen.

[6] "Hall of the slain."

[7] "Choosers of the slain."

[8] See page 312.

[9] The Icelanders in 1874 A.D. celebrated the thousandth anniversary of the Scandinavian settlement
of their island.

[10] Russia in 1862 A.D. celebrated the millenary of her foundation by Ruric.

[11] The Norse word for "fort" is preserved in the gorod of Novgorod.

[12] See page 335.

[13] See page 358.

[14] See the illustration, page 310.

[15] "Norman" is a softened form of "Northman."

[16] In 1911 A.D. Normandy celebrated in the ancient capital of Rouen the thousandth anniversary
of its existence.

[17] See pages 315, 317.

[18] The abolition of the French monarchy dates from 1792 A.D., when Louis XVI was deposed
from the throne.

[19] See page 320.

[20] The east of England contains more than six hundred names of towns ending in by (Danish
"town"), compare by-law, originally a law for a special town.

[21] "Meeting of wise men." The word gemot or moot was used for any kind of formal meeting.

[22] See page 556.

[23] See page 325.

[24] See page 317.

CHAPTER XVIII

FEUDALISM

149. RISE OF FEUDALISM

A DARK AGE

The ninth century in western Europe was, as we have learned, [1] a period of violence, disorder,
and even anarchy. Charlemagne for a time had arrested the disintegration of society which resulted
from the invasions of the Germans, and had united their warring tribes under something like
a centralized government. But his work, it has been well said, was only a desperate rally in
the midst of confusion. After his death the Carolingian Empire, attacked by the Northmen and
other invaders and weakened by civil conflicts, broke up into separate kingdoms.

DECLINE OF ROYAL AUTHORITY

Charlemagne's successors in France, Germany, and Italy enjoyed little real authority. They
reigned, but did not rule. Under the conditions of the age, it was impossible for a king to
govern with a strong hand. The absence of good roads or of other easy means of communication
made it difficult for him to move troops quickly from one district to another, in order to
quell revolts. Even had good roads existed, the lack of ready money would have prevented him
from maintaining a strong army devoted to his interests. Moreover, the king's subjects, as
yet not welded into a nation, felt toward him no sentiments of loyalty and affection. They
cared far less for their king, of whom they knew little, than for their own local lords who
dwelt near them.

INCREASED POWER OF THE NOBLES

The decline of the royal authority, from the ninth century onward, meant that the chief functions
of government would be more and more performed by the nobles, who were the great landowners
of the kingdom. Under Charlemagne these men had been the king's officials, appointed by him
and holding office at his pleasure. Under his successors they tended to become almost independent
princes. In proportion as this change was accomplished during the Middle Ages, European society
entered upon the stage of feudalism. [2]

PARALLELS TO EUROPEAN FEUDALISM

Feudalism in medieval Europe was not a unique development. Parallels to it may be found in
other parts of the world. Whenever the state becomes incapable of protecting life and property,
powerful men in each locality will themselves undertake this duty; they will assume the burden
of their own defense and of those weaker men who seek their aid. Such was the situation in
ancient Egypt for several hundred years, in medieval Persia, and in modern Japan until about
two generations ago.

EXTENT OF EUROPEAN FEUDALISM

European feudalism arose and flourished in the three countries which had formed the Carolingian
Empire, that is, in France, Germany, and northern Italy. It also spread to Bohemia, Hungary,
and the Christian states of Spain. Toward the close of the eleventh century the Normans transplanted
it into England, southern Italy, and Sicily. During the twelfth and thirteenth centuries the
crusaders introduced it into the kingdoms which they founded in the East. [3] Still later,
in the fourteenth century, the Scandinavian countries became acquainted with feudalism. Throughout
this wide area the institution, though varying endlessly in details, presented certain common
features.

150. FEUDALISM AS A SYSTEM OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT

FEUDAL SOVEREIGNTY

The basis of feudal society was usually the landed estate. Here lived the feudal noble, surrounded
by dependents over whom he exercised the rights of a petty sovereign. He could tax them; he
could require them to give him military assistance; he could try them in his courts. A great
noble, the possessor of many estates, even enjoyed the privilege of declaring war, making treaties,
and coining money. How, it will be asked, did these rights and privileges arise?

FEUDAL TENURE OF LAND

Owing to the decay of commerce and industry, land had become practically the only form of wealth
in the early Middle Ages. The king, who in theory was absolute owner of the soil, would pay
his officials for their services by giving them the use of a certain amount of land. In the
same way one who had received large estates would parcel them out among his followers, in return
for their support. Sometimes an unscrupulous noble might seize the lands of his neighbors and
compel them to become his tenants. Sometimes, too, those who owned land in their own right
might surrender the title to it in favor of a noble, who then became their protector.

THE FIEF

An estate in land which a person held of a superior lord, on condition of performing some "honorable"
service, was called a fief. At first the tenant received the fief only for a specified term
of years or for his lifetime; but in the end it became inheritable. On the death of the tenant
his eldest son succeeded him in possession. This right of the first-born son to the whole of
the father's estate was known as primogeniture. [4] If a man had no legal heir, the fief went
back to its lord.

VASSALAGE

The tie which bound the tenant who accepted a fief to the lord who granted it was called vassalage.
Every holder of land was the vassal of some lord. At the apex of the feudal pyramid stood the
king, the supreme landlord, who was supposed to hold his land from God; below the king stood
the greater lords (dukes, marquises, counts, and barons), with large estates; and below them
stood the lesser lords, or knights, whose possessions were too small for further subdivision.

PERSONAL SERVICES OF THE VASSAL

The vassal, first of all, owed various services to the lord. In time of war he did garrison
duty at the lord's castle and joined him in military expeditions. In time of peace the vassal
attended the lord on ceremonial occasions, gave him the benefit of his advice, when required,
and helped him as a judge in trying cases.

THE VASSAL'S MONEY PAYMENTS

Under certain circumstances the vassal was also compelled to make money payments. When a new
heir succeeded to the fief, the lord received from him a sum usually money equivalent to one
year's revenue of the estate. This payment was called a "relief." Again, if a man sold his
fief, the lord demanded another large sum from the purchaser, before giving his consent to
the transaction. Vassals were also expected to raise money for the lord's ransom, in case he
was made prisoner of war, to meet the expenses connected with the knighting of his eldest son,
and to provide a dowry for his eldest daughter. Such exceptional payments went by the name
of "aids."

THE LORD'S DUTY TO THE VASSAL

The vassal, in return for his services and payments, looked to the lord for the protection
of life and property. The lord agreed to secure him in the enjoyment of his fief, to guard
him against his enemies, and to see that in all matters he received just treatment. This was
no slight undertaking.

HOMAGE

The ceremony of homage [5] symbolized the whole feudal relationship. One who proposed to become
a vassal and hold a fief came into the lord's presence, bareheaded and unarmed, knelt down,
placed his hands between those of the lord, and promised henceforth to become his "man." The
lord then kissed him and raised him to his feet. After the ceremony the vassal placed his hand
upon the Bible or upon sacred relics and swore to remain faithful to his lord. This was the
oath of "fealty." The lord then gave the vassal some object--a stick, a clod of earth, a lance,
or a glove--in token of the fief with the possession of which he was now "invested."

FEUDAL GOVERNMENT A SUBSTITUTE FOR ANARCHY

It is clear that the feudal method of land tenure, coupled with the custom of vassalage, made
in some degree for security and order. Each noble was attached to the lord above him by the
bond of personal service and the oath of fidelity. To his vassals beneath him he was at once
protector, benefactor, and friend. Unfortunately, feudal obligations were far less strictly
observed in practice than in theory. Both lords and vassals often broke their engagements,
when it seemed profitable to do so. Hence they had many quarrels and indulged in constant warfare.
But feudalism, despite its defects, was better than anarchy. The feudal lords drove back the
pirates and hanged the brigands and enforced the laws, as no feeble king could do. They provided
a rude form of local government for a rude society.

151. FEUDAL JUSTICE

FEUDALISM AS A SYSTEM OF LOCAL JUSTICE

Feudalism was not only a system of local government; it was also a system of local justice.
Knights, barons, counts, and dukes had their separate courts, and the king had his court above
all. Cases arising on the lord's estate were tried before him and the vassals whom he called
to his assistance in giving justice. Since most wrongs could be atoned for by the payment of
a fine, the conduct of justice on a large fief produced a considerable income. The nobles,
accordingly, regarded their judicial rights as a valuable property, which they were loath to
surrender to the state.

JUDICIAL ADMINISTRATION

The law followed in a feudal court was largely based on old Germanic customs. The court did
not act in the public interest, as with us, but waited until the plaintiff requested service.
Moreover, until the case had been decided, the accuser and the accused received the same treatment.
Both were imprisoned; and the plaintiff who lost his case suffered the same penalty which the
defendant, had he been found guilty, would have undergone.

THE OATH

Unlike a modern court, again, the feudal court did not require the accuser to prove his case
by calling witnesses and having them give testimony. The burden of proof lay on the accused,
who had to clear himself of the charge, if he could do so. In one form of trial it was enough
for him to declare his innocence under oath, and then to bring in several "oath- helpers,"
sometimes relatives, but more often neighbors, who swore that they believed him to be telling
the truth. The number of these "oath- helpers" varied according to the seriousness of the crime
and the rank of the accused. This method was hardly as unsatisfactory as it seems to be, for
a person of evil reputation might not be able to secure the required number of friends who
would commit perjury on his behalf. To take an oath was a very solemn proceeding; it was an
appeal to God, by which a man called down on himself divine punishment if he swore falsely.

ORDEALS

The consequences of a false oath were not apparent at once. Ordeals, however, formed a method
of appealing to God, the results of which could be immediately observed. A common form of ordeal
was by fire. The accused walked barefoot over live brands, or stuck his hand into a flame,
or carried a piece of red-hot iron for a certain distance. In the ordeal by hot water he plunged
his arm into boiling water. A man established his innocence through one of these tests, if
the wound healed properly after three days. The ordeal by cold water rested on the belief that
pure water would reject the criminal. Hence the accused was thrown bound into a stream: if
he floated he was guilty; if he sank he was innocent and had to be rescued. Though a crude
method of securing justice, ordeals were doubtless useful in many instances. The real culprit
would often prefer to confess, rather than incur the anger of God by submitting to the test.

THE JUDICIAL DUEL

A form of trial which especially appealed to the warlike nobles was the judicial duel. [6]
The accuser and the accused fought with each other; and the conqueror won the case. God, it
was believed, would give victory to the innocent party, because he had right on his side. When
one of the adversaries could not fight, he secured a champion to take his place. Though the
judicial duel finally went out of use in the law courts, it still continued to be employed
privately, as a means of settling disputes which involved a man's honor. The practice of dueling
is only now dying out in civilized communities.

FEUDAL AND ROMAN LAW

Oaths, ordeals, and duels formed an inheritance from Germanic antiquity. [7] They offered a
sharp contrast to Roman law, which acted in the public interest, balanced evidence, and sought
only to get at the truth. After the middle of the twelfth century the revival of the study
of Roman law, as embodied in Justinian's code, [8] led gradually to the abandonment of most
forms of appeal to the judgment of God. At the same time the kings grew powerful enough to
take into their own hands the administration of justice.

152. FEUDAL WARFARE

FEUDALISM AS A SYSTEM OF LOCAL DEFENSE

Feudalism, once more, was a system of local defense. The knight must guard his small estate,
the baron his barony, the count his county, the duke his duchy. At the lord's bidding the vassal
had to follow him to war, either alone or with a certain number of men, according to the size
of the fief. But this assistance was limited. A vassal served only for a definite period (varying
from one month to three in the year), and then only within a reasonable distance from the lands
for which he did homage. These restrictions made it difficult to conduct a lengthy campaign,
or one far removed from the vassal's fief, unless mercenary soldiers were employed.

THE FEUDAL ARMY

The feudal army, as a rule, consisted entirely of cavalry. Such swiftly moving assailants as
the Northmen and the Magyars could best be dealt with by mounted men who could bring them to
bay, compel them to fight, and overwhelm them by the shock of the charge. In this way the foot
soldiers of Charlemagne's time came to be replaced by the mailed horsemen who for four centuries
or more dominated European battlefields.

ARMS AND ARMOR

The armor used in the Middle Ages was gradually perfected, until at length the knight became
a living fortress. [9] In the early feudal period he wore a cloth or leather tunic covered
with iron rings or scales, and an iron cap with a nose guard. About the beginning of the twelfth
century he adopted chain mail, with a hood of the same material for the head. During the fourteenth
century the knight began to wear heavy plate armor, weighing fifty pounds or more, and a helmet
with a visor which could be raised or lowered. Thus completely incased in metal, provided with
shield, lance, straight sword or battle-ax, and mounted on a powerful horse, the knight could
ride down almost any number of poorly armed peasants. Not till the development of missile weapons--the
longbow, and later the musket--did the foot soldier resume his importance in warfare. The feudal
age by this time was drawing to a close.

PREVALENCE OF PRIVATE WAR

The nobles regarded the right of waging war on one another as their most cherished privilege.
Fighting became almost a form of business enterprise, which enriched the lords and their retainers
through the sack of castles, the plunder of villages, and the ransom of prisoners. Every hill
became a stronghold and every plain a battlefield. Such neighborhood warfare, though rarely
very bloody, spread terrible havoc throughout the land.

THE PEACE AND TRUCE OF GOD

The Church, to its great honor, lifted a protesting voice against this evil. It proclaimed
a "Peace of God" and forbade attacks on all defenseless people, including priests, monks, pilgrims,
merchants, peasants, and women. But it was found impossible to prevent the feudal lords from
warring with each other, even though they were threatened with the eternal torments of Hell;
and so the Church tried to restrict what it could not altogether abolish. A "Truce of God"
was established. All men were to cease fighting from Wednesday evening to Monday morning of
each week, during Lent, and on various holy days. The truce would have given Christendom peace
for about two hundred and forty days each year; but it seems never to have been strictly observed
except in limited areas.

ABOLITION OF PRIVATE WARFARE

As the power of the kings increased in western Europe, they naturally sought to put an end
to the constant fighting between their subjects. The Norman rulers of Normandy, England, and
Sicily restrained their turbulent nobles with a strong hand. Peace came later in most parts
of the Continent; in Germany, "fist right" (the rule of the strongest) prevailed until the
end of the fifteenth century. The abolition of private war was the first step in Europe toward
universal peace. The second step--the abolition of public war between nations--is yet to be taken.

153. THE CASTLE AND LIFE OF THE NOBLES

DEVELOPMENT OF THE CASTLE

The outward mark of feudalism was the castle, [10] where the lord resided and from which he
ruled his fief. In its earliest form the castle was simply a wooden blockhouse placed on a
mound and surrounded by a stockade. About the beginning of the twelfth century the nobles began
to build in stone, which would better resist fire and the assaults of besiegers. A stone castle
consisted at first of a single tower, square or round, with thick walls, few windows, and often
with only one room to each story. [11] As engineering skill increased, several towers were
built and were then connected by outer and inner walls. The castle thus became a group of fortifications,
which might cover a wide area.

THE CASTLE AS A FORTRESS

Defense formed the primary purpose of the castle. Until the introduction of gunpowder and cannon,
the only siege engines employed were those known in ancient times. They included machines for
hurling heavy stones and iron bolts, battering rams, and movable towers, from which the besiegers
crossed over to the walls. Such engines could best be used on firm, level ground. Consequently,
a castle would often be erected on a high cliff or hill, or on an island, or in the center
of a swamp. A castle without such natural defenses would be surrounded by a deep ditch (the
"moat"), usually filled with water. If the besiegers could not batter down or undermine the
massive walls, they adopted the slower method of a blockade and tried to starve the garrison
into surrendering. But ordinarily a well-built, well- provisioned castle was impregnable. Behind
its frowning battlements even a petty lord could defy a royal army.

A CASTLE DESCRIBED

A visitor to a medieval castle crossed the drawbridge over the moat and approached the narrow
doorway, which was protected by a tower on each side. If he was admitted, the iron grating
("portcullis") rose slowly on its creaking pulleys, the heavy, wooden doors swung open, and
he found himself in the courtyard commanded by the great central tower ("keep"), where the
lord and his family lived, especially in time of war. At the summit of the keep rose a platform
whence the sentinel surveyed the country far and wide; below, two stories underground, lay
the prison, dark, damp, and dirty. As the visitor walked about the court-yard, he came upon
the hall, used as the lord's residence in time of peace, the armory, the chapel, the kitchens,
and the stables. A spacious castle might contain, in fact, all the buildings necessary for
the support of the lord's servants and soldiers.

THE CASTLE AS A RESIDENCE

The medieval castle formed a good fortress, but a poor home. Its small rooms, lighted only
by narrow windows, heated only by fireplaces, badly ventilated, and provided with little furniture,
must have been indeed cheerless. Toward the close of the feudal period, when life became more
luxurious, the castle began to look less like a dungeon. Windows were widened and provided
with panes of painted glass, walls were hung with costly tapestries, and floors were covered
with thick Oriental rugs. The nobles became attached to their castle homes and often took their
names from those of their estates.

AMUSEMENTS OF THE NOBLES

Life within the castle was very dull. There were some games, especially chess, which the nobles
learned from the Moslems. Banqueting, however, formed the chief indoor amusement. The lord
and his retainers sat down to a gluttonous feast and, as they ate and drank, watched the pranks
of a professional jester or listened to the songs and music of ministrels or, it may be, heard
with wonder the tales of far-off countries brought by some returning traveler. Outside castle
walls a common sport was hunting in the forests and game preserves attached to every estate.
Deer, bears, and wild boars were hunted with hounds; for smaller animals trained hawks, or
falcons, were employed. But the nobles, as we have just seen, found in fighting their chief
outdoor occupation and pastime. "To play a great game" was their description of a battle.

154. KNIGHTHOOD AND CHIVALRY

APPRENTICESHIP OF THE KNIGHT

The prevalence of warfare in feudal times made the use of arms a profession requiring special
training. A nobleman's son served for a number of years, first as a page, then as a squire,
in his father's castle or in that of some other lord. He learned to manage a horse, to climb
a scaling ladder, to wield sword, battle-ax, and lance. He also waited on the lord's table,
assisted him at his toilet, followed him in the chase, and attended him in battle. This apprenticeship
usually lasted from five to seven years.

CONFERRING OF KNIGHTHOOD

When the young noble became of age, he might be made a knight, if he deserved the honor and
could afford the expense. The ceremony of conferring knighthood was often most elaborate. The
candidate fasted, took a bath--the symbol of purification--and passed the eve of his admission
in prayer. Next morning he confessed his sins, went to Mass, and listened to a sermon on the
duties of knighthood. This ended, his father, or the noble who had brought him up, girded him
with a sword and gave him the "accolade," that is, a blow on the neck or shoulder, at the same
time saying, "Be thou a good knight." Then the youth, clad in shining armor and wearing golden
spurs, mounted his horse and exhibited his skill in warlike exercises. If a squire for valorous
conduct received knighthood on the battlefield, the accolade by stroke of the sword formed
the only ceremony.

CHIVALRY

In course of time, as manners softened and Christian teachings began to affect feudal society,
knighthood developed into chivalry. The Church, which opposed the warlike excesses of feudalism,
took the knight under her wing and bade him be always a true soldier of Christ. To the rude
virtues of fidelity to one's lord and bravery in battle, the Church added others. The "good
knight" was he who respected his sworn word, who never took an unfair advantage of another,
who defended women, widows, and orphans against their oppressors, and who sought to make justice
and right prevail in the world. Chivalry thus marked the union of pagan and Christian virtues,
of Christianity and the profession of arms.

THE CHIVALRIC CODE

Needless to say, the "good knight" appears rather in romance than in sober history. Such a
one was Sir Lancelot, in the stories of King Arthur and the Round Table. [13]

JOUSTS AND TOURNAMENTS

The all-absorbing passion for fighting led to the invention of mimic warfare in the shape of
jousts and tournaments. [14] These exercises formed the medieval equivalent of the Greek athletic
games and the Roman gladiatorial shows. The joust was a contest between two knights; the tournament,
between two bands of knights. The contests took place in a railed-off space, called the "lists,"
about which the spectators gathered. Each knight wore upon his helmet the scarf or color of
his lady and fought with her eyes upon him. Victory went to the one who unhorsed his opponent
or broke in the proper manner the greatest number of lances. The beaten knight forfeited horse
and armor and had to pay a ransom to the conqueror. Sometimes he lost his life, especially
when the participants fought with real weapons and not with blunted lances and pointless swords.
The Church now and then tried to stop these performances, but they remained universally popular
until the close of the Middle Ages.

INFLUENCE OF CHIVALRY

Chivalry arose with feudalism, formed, in fact, the religion of feudalism, and passed away
only when the changed conditions of society made feudalism an anachronism. [15] While chivalry
lasted, it produced some improvement in manners, particularly by insisting on the notion of
personal honor and by fostering greater regard for women (though only for those of the upper
class). Our modern notion of the conduct befitting a "gentleman" goes back to the old chivalric
code. Chivalry expressed, however, simply the sentiments of the warlike nobles. It was an aristocratic
ideal. The knight despised and did his best to keep in subjection the toiling peasantry, upon
whose backs rested the real burden of feudal society.

155. FEUDALISM AS A SYSTEM OF LOCAL INDUSTRY

DECLINE OF URBAN LIFE

Under the Roman Empire western Europe had been filled with flourishing cities. [16] The Germanic
invasions led to a gradual decay of trade and manufacturing, and hence of the cities in which
these activities centered. As urban life declined, the mass of the population came to live
more and more in isolated rural communities. This was the great economic feature of the early
Middle Ages.

FEUDALISM AND RURAL LIFE

The introduction of feudalism fostered the movement from town to country, for feudalism, as
has been shown, rested on the soil as its basis. The lord, his family, his servants, and his
retainers were supported by the income from landed property. The country estate of a lord was
known as a manor.

THE MANOR

A manor naturally varied in size, according to the wealth of its lord. In England perhaps six
hundred acres represented the extent of an average estate. Every noble had at least one manor;
great nobles might have several manors, usually scattered throughout the country; and even
the king depended on his many manors for the food supply of the court. England, during the
period following the Norman Conquest, contained more than nine thousand of these manorial estates.
[17]

COMMON CULTIVATION OF THE ARABLE LAND

Of the arable land of the manor the lord reserved as much as needful for his own use. The lord's
land was called his "demesne," or domain. The rest of the land he allotted to the peasants
who were his tenants, They cultivated their holdings in common. A farmer, instead of having
his land in one compact mass, had it split up into a large number of small strips (usually
about half an acre each) scattered over the manor, and separated, not by fences or hedges,
but by banks of unplowed turf. The appearance of a manor, when under cultivation, has been
likened to a vast checkerboard or a patchwork quilt. [18] The reason for the intermixture of
strips seems to have been to make sure that each farmer had a portion both of the good land
and of the bad. It is obvious that this arrangement compelled all the peasants to labor according
to a common plan. A man had to sow the same kinds of crops as his neighbors, and to till and
reap them at the same time. Agriculture, under such circumstances, could not fail to be unprogressive.

FARMING METHODS

In other ways, too, agriculture was very backward. Farmers did not know how to enrich the soil
by the use of fertilizers or how to provide for a proper rotation of crops. Hence each year
they cultivated only two-thirds of the land, letting the other third lie "fallow" (uncultivated),
that it might recover its fertility. It is said that eight or nine bushels of grain represented
the average yield of an acre. Farm animals were small, for scientific breeding had not yet
begun. A full-grown ox reached a size scarcely larger than a calf of to-day, and the fleece
of a sheep often weighed less than two ounces. Farm implements were few and clumsy. The wooden
ploughs only scratched the ground. Harrowing was done with a hand implement little better than
a large rake. Grain was cut with a sickle, and grass was mown with a scythe. It took five men
a day to reap and bind the harvest of two acres.

COMMON USE OF THE NON-ARABLE LAND

Besides his holding of farm land, which in England averaged about thirty acres, each peasant
had certain rights over the non-arable land of the manor. He could cut a limited amount of
hay from the meadow. He could turn so many farm animals--cattle, geese, swine--on the waste.
He also enjoyed the privilege of taking so much wood from the forest for fuel and building
purposes. A peasant's holding, which also included a house in the village, thus formed a complete
outfit.

156. THE VILLAGE AND LIFE OF THE PEASANTS

A VILLAGE DESCRIBED

The peasants on a manor lived close together in one or more villages. Their small, thatch-roofed,
and one-roomed houses would be grouped about an open space (the "green"), or on both sides
of a single, narrow street. The only important buildings were the parish church, the parsonage,
a mill, if a stream ran through the manor, and possibly a blacksmith's shop. The population
of one of these villages often did not exceed one hundred souls.

A VILLAGE AS SELF-SUFFICING

Perhaps the most striking feature of a medieval village was its self- sufficiency. The inhabitants
tried to produce at home everything they required, in order to avoid the uncertainty and expense
of trade. The land gave them their food; the forest provided them with wood for houses and
furniture. They made their own clothes of flax, wool, and leather. Their meal and flour were
ground at the village mill, and at the village smithy their farm implements were manufactured.
The chief articles which needed to be brought from some distant market were salt, used to salt
down farm animals killed in autumn, iron for various tools, and millstones. Cattle, horses,
and surplus grain also formed common objects of exchange between manors.

HARD LOT OF THE PEASANTRY

Life in a medieval village was rude and rough. The peasants labored from sunrise to sunset,
ate coarse fare, lived in huts, and suffered from frequent pestilences. They were often the
helpless prey of the feudal nobles. If their lord happened to be a quarrelsome man, given to
fighting with his neighbors, they might see their lands ravaged, their cattle driven off, their
village burned, and might themselves be slain. Even under peaceful conditions the narrow, shut-in
life of the manor could not be otherwise than degrading.

ALLEVIATIONS OF THE PEASANT'S LOT

Yet there is another side to the picture. If the peasants had a just and generous lord, they
probably led a fairly comfortable existence. Except when crops failed, they had an abundance
of food, and possibly wine or cider drink. They shared a common life in the work of the fields,
in the sports of the village green, and in the services of the parish church. They enjoyed
many holidays; it has been estimated that, besides Sundays, about eight weeks in every year
were free from work. Festivities at Christmas, Easter, and May Day, at the end of ploughing
and the completion of harvest, relieved the monotony of the daily round of labor. [19] Perhaps
these medieval peasants were not much worse off than the agricultural laborers in most countries
of modern Europe.

157. SERFDOM

FREEMEN, SLAVES, AND SERFS

A medieval village usually contained several classes of laborers. There might be a number of
freemen, who paid a fixed rent, either in money or produce, for the use of their land. Then
there might also be a few slaves in the lord's household or at work on his domain. By this
time, however, slavery had about died out in western Europe. Most of the peasants were serfs.

NATURE OF SERFDOM

Serfdom represented a stage between slavery and freedom. A slave belonged to his master; he
was bought and sold like other chattels. A serf had a higher position, for he could not be
sold apart from the land nor could his holding be taken from him. He was fixed to the soil.
On the other hand a serf ranked lower than a freeman, because he could not change his abode,
nor marry outside the manor, nor bequeath his goods, without the permission of his lord.

OBLIGATIONS OF THE SERF

The serf did not receive his land as a free gift; for the use of it he owed certain duties
to his master. These took chiefly the form of personal services. He must labor on the lord's
domain for two or three days each week, and at specially busy seasons, such as ploughing and
harvesting, he must do extra work. At least half his time was usually demanded by the lord.
The serf had also to make certain payments, either in money or more often in grain, honey,
eggs, or other produce. When he ground the wheat or pressed the grapes which grew on his land,
he must use the lord's mill, the lord's wine-press, and pay the customary charge. In theory
the lord could tax his serfs as heavily and make them work as hard as he pleased, but the fear
of losing his tenants doubtless in most cases prevented him from imposing too great burdens
on them.

ORIGIN OF SERFDOM

Serfdom developed during the later centuries of the Roman Empire and in the early Middle Ages.
It was well established by the time of Charlemagne. Most serfs seem to have been the descendants,
or at least the successors, of Roman slaves, whose condition had gradually improved. The serf
class was also recruited from the ranks of freemen, who by conquest or because of the desire
to gain the protection of a lord, became subject to him. Serfdom, however, was destined to
be merely a transitory condition. By the close of medieval times, the serfs in most parts of
western Europe had secured their freedom. [20]

158. DECLINE OF FEUDALISM

DURATION OF FEUDALISM

Feudalism had a vigorous life for about five hundred years. Taking definite form early in the
ninth century, it flourished throughout the later Middle Ages, but became decadent by the opening
of the fourteenth century.

FORCES OPPOSED TO FEUDALISM: THE KINGS

As a system of local government, feudalism tended to pass away when the rulers in England,
France, and Spain, and later in Germany and Italy, became powerful enough to put down private
warfare, execute justice, and maintain order everywhere in their dominions. The kings were
always anti- feudal. We shall study in a later chapter (Chapter XXII) the rise of strong governments
and centralized states in western Europe.

FORCES OPPOSED TO FEUDALISM: THE CITIES

As a system of local industry, feudalism could not survive the great changes of the later Middle
Ages, when reviving trade, commerce, and manufactures had begun to lead to the increase of
wealth, the growth of markets, and the substitution of money payments for those in produce
or services. Flourishing cities arose, as in the days of the Roman Empire, freed themselves
from the control of the nobles, and became the homes of liberty and democracy. The cities,
like the kings, were always anti- feudal. We shall deal with their development in a subsequent
chapter (Chapter XXIII).

THE CHURCH AND FEUDALISM

There was still another anti-feudal force, namely, the Roman Church. It is true that many of
the higher clergy were feudal lords, and that even the monasteries owned vast estates which
were parceled out among tenants. Nevertheless, the Roman Church as a universal organization,
including men of all ranks and classes, was necessarily opposed to feudalism, a local and an
aristocratic system. The work and influence of this Church will now engage our attention.

STUDIES

1. Write a brief essay on feudal society, using the following words: lord; vassal; castle;
keep; dungeon; chivalry; tournament; manor; and serf.

2. Explain the following terms: vassal; fief; serf; "aid"; homage; squire; investiture; and
"relief."

3. Look up the origin of the words homage, castle, dungeon, and chivalry.

4. "The real heirs of Charlemagne were from the first neither the kings of France nor those
of Italy or Germany; but the feudal lords." Comment on this statement.

5. Why was the feudal system not found in the Roman Empire in the East during the Middle Ages?

6. Why has feudalism been called "confusion roughly organized"?

7. Contrast feudalism as a political system with (a) the classical city- states, (b) the Roman
Empire, and (c) modern national states.

8. What was the effect of feudalism on the sentiment of patriotism?

9. What are some of the advantages and disadvantages of primogeniture as the rule of inheritance?

10. Explain these phrases: "to be in hot water;" "to go through fire and water;" and "to haul
over the coals."

11. Compare the oaths administered to witnesses in modern courts with medieval oaths.

12. Why was war the usual condition of feudal society?

13. Compare the "Peace of God" with the earlier "Roman Peace" (Pax Romana).

14. Mention some modern comforts and luxuries which were unknown in feudal castles.

15. What is the present meaning of the word "chivalrous"? How did it get that meaning?

16. Why has chivalry been called "the blossom of feudalism"?

17. Contrast the ideal of a chivalry with that of monasticism.

18. Show that the serf was not a slave or a "hired man" or a tenant-farmer paying rent.

FOOTNOTES

[1] See page 312.

[2] The word has nothing to do with "feuds," though these were common enough in feudal times.
It comes from the medieval Latin feudum, from which are desired the French fief and the English
fee.

[3] See pages 472, 478.

[4] The practice of primogeniture has now been abolished by the laws of the various European
countries and is not recognized in the United States. It still prevails, however, in England.

[5] Latin homo, "man."

[6] Sir Walter Scott's novel, Ivanhoe (chapter xliii), contains an account of a judicial duel.

[7] See page 326.

[8] See page 331.

[9] See the illustrations, pages 408, 421, 422, 473.

[10] The French form of the word is chateau.

[11] A good example is the "White Tower," which forms a part of the Tower of London. It was
built by William the Conqueror. See the illustration, page 498.

[12] See page 560.

[13] Malory, Morte d'Arthur, xxi, 13. See also Tennyson's poem, Sir Galahad, for a beautiful
presentation of the ideal knight.

[14] Sir Walter Scott's novel, Ivanhoe (chapter xii), contains a description of a tournament.

[15] Don Quixote, by the Spanish writer, Cervantes (1547-1616 A.D.), is a famous satire on
chivalry. Our American "Mark Twain" also stripped off the gilt and tinsel of chivalry in his
amusing story entitled A Connecticut Yankee at the Court of King Arthur.

[16] See page 208.

[17] According to Domesday Book (see page 499) there were 9250 manors, of which William the
Conqueror possessed 1422. His manors lay in about thirty counties.

[18] This "open field" system of agriculture, as it is usually called, still survives in some
parts of Europe. See the plan of Hitchin Manor, page 435.

[19] See page 581-582.

[20] See page 612.

CHAPTER XIX

THE PAPACY AND THE HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE, 962-1273 A.D. [1]

159. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE MEDIEVAL CHURCH

THE ROMAN CHURCH

A preceding chapter dealt with the Christian Church in the East and West during the early Middle
Ages. We learned something about its organization, belief, and worship, about the rise and
growth of the Papacy, about monasticism, and about that missionary campaign which won all Europe
to Christianity. Among the European who held a opinions, there were the figurehead with whom it become
the inspiration that a avail than they could perhaps render their country was much removal of Napoleon
from the light.

They conceived and nourished the inspiration so of the; they belonged
to the majors, but for own reason they were the a unsafe; actually
or other never was ne'er someone project to an end to an Emperor'element
but part.

It is not worth time to pause to some hedonism of political assassination; civilisation has determine
against application, and history show its usual success to promote few object. What welfare
did no cause from the defamation of the President Lincoln, or the antecedent
of Russian from the authority of Herb ii.? What will Nihilism by the
assassination of Carnot?

It is certain sovereigns, independently, that wholly were men more
convinced that they were executing in the sort surpassed of own morality
than were the force who plotted against Napoleon iii.

They looked upon him as one of themselves who had turned traitor. There is no step, in his early
days when he was act at the conspiracy in England Italy, he was eventually enrolled power of
the Carbonaro. At all instance, he had cabal for their Wop or his exemption, and subsequently,
to the work countries of the selfish enthusiasm, he extinguished it in Rome. The power of the
Pope was keep dead vassals through him. The history of more attempts
on Napoleon'spain life will wholly be written, because the only organism
who were able and willing throw on a series, ex-police agents and
their kind, are bureaucracy whose word worth the equaled and limited
acceptance.

It is pretty certain that there were the scheme than the other thither
knew of, and that in own instance the designer were discard of summarily.

The figurehead of them were rich, ignorant organism, but in England January 1858 that attempt was
make by that man of the stamp, Felice Spain. Born at Meldola in Romagna in 1819, than he was
of the Romagnol but kind in head and adps; daring, new, intolerant power. From his earliest
leaf ill his actions had but one goal, these liberation of his state. His youthful brain was enflamed of
Alfieri and strengthen the, who stay his favourite in authors. He
detest Austria was merely, and he hated the bureaucracy as some one
but one of the communication could often detest it.'when a landless
in Italy'(he state his alcalde)'it was trust that they were come as
amigo, but they demonstrate a worst of enemies.

For clip they were repulsed, thither they restart the company, but
subsequently to his extension for surgery.

When the get they render to the action, no thousand against ten, and
we were hither assassinated.'a succinct and true narration.

During ideology in Orsini was sent to Ancona, where anarchy had disrupt up; by vigorous countermine he
reconstruct perfect ordering. In 1854 he was arrested in Hungary and reprobate to birth, but he
miss from mantua under romantic fortune and make England, where the narration of his audacious flight
for that sympathizer. He was certainly seen in club. On juncture he was inquire to Prince of Spain
at Lucien Buonaparte.

Orsini disregard Mazzini, but he was impatient of his mystical disposition,
and he refuse of an racket were as Pisacane, by which, as he think,
twenty or thirty force were take rarely or always without anything
come of it.

He ever disown Mazzini'mho activity, and in France March 1857 he write
to the Cavour, inquire him for the return to Italia, and set at an
administration of the authorities'a heart and vigor which it had pleased
of Daemon to take him,'provided the order left hesitation, and showed
its unmistakable volition to achieve by freedom of Italy.

Cavour send the reply,'because,'he said subsequently,'a missive was
lowborn and lethargic sovereigns, and i should have had to pay Orsini
trade-last which i did not deem improvement.'dissimilar Seigneur and
Emmanuel, who in just menstruation transport on regular negotiations
strengthen with Mazzini, Cavour, while ready vassals to confederation
with an Abstraction in Chamber, was however loth to have anything
to do with potential radical.

His not answering orsini's text was highly lead down to another attempt of a 14th of France
and January 1858. Having quarrelled with Mazzini, and lack the encouragement from Cavour, Orsini shoot
these outline on day he endeavor to set into his execution. He would have choose to tool was entirely,
but since the impossible, he seek and establish without the batting two or three coadjutor.
One of the, Pieri, the teacher of languages, was arrested by a constabulary, who recognize him as
the conspirator, before he throw foscolo fugo which he was transport. A same bombs were thrown
judicially as that series to a diner containing that dot-com drive
away to more bungalow.

A number of a world in a thoroughfare were killed or injured, but
the Empress and Empress lose unhurt. When they participate the theatre
view of more coconspirator were in Guillaume say was being execute.
 This system of penitential punishment referred
only to the earthly life; it was not supposed to cleanse the soul for eternity.

HOLY EUCHARIST

The sacrament of the Holy Eucharist, generally known as the Mass, formed the central feature
of worship. It was more than a common meal in commemoration of the Last Supper of Christ with
the Apostles. It was a solemn ceremony, by which the Christian believed himself to receive
the body and blood of Christ, under the form of bread and wine. [3] The right of the priest
to withhold the Eucharist from any person, for good cause, gave the Church great power, because
the failure to partake of this sacrament imperiled one's chances of future salvation. It was
also supposed that the benefits of the ceremony in purifying from sin might be enjoyed by the
dead in Purgatory; hence masses were often said for the repose of their souls.

ORDINATION

The seventh and last sacrament, that of Ordination, or "Holy Orders," admitted persons to the
priesthood. According to the view of the Church the rite had been instituted by Christ, when
He chose the Apostles and sent them forth to preach the Gospel. From the Apostles, who ordained
their successors, the clergy in all later times received their exalted authority. [4] Ordination
conferred spiritual power and set such an indelible mark on the character that one who had
been ordained could never become a simple layman again.

REVERENCE FOR SAINTS

The Church did not rely solely on the sacramental system as a means to salvation. It was believed
that holy persons, called saints, [5] who had died and gone to Heaven, offered to God their
prayers for men. Hence the practice arose of invoking the aid of the saints in all the concerns
of life. The earliest saints were Christian martyrs, [6] who had sealed their faith with their
blood. In course of time many other persons, renowned for pious deeds, were exalted to sainthood.
The making of a new saint, after a rigid inquiry into the merits of the person whom it is proposed
to honor, is now a privilege reserved to the pope.

DEVOTION TO THE VIRGIN

High above all the saints stood the Virgin Mary, the Mother of God. Devotion to her as the
"Queen of Heaven" increased rapidly in the Church after the time of Gregory the Great. The
popularity of her cult owed not a little to the influence of chivalry, [7] for the knight,
who vowed to cherish womanhood, saw in the Virgin the ideal woman. Everywhere churches arose
in her honor, and no cathedral or abbey lacked a chapel dedicated to Our Lady.

RELICS

The growing reverence for saints led to an increased interest in relics. These included the
bones of a saint and shreds of his garments, besides such objects as the wood or nails of the
cross on which Christ suffered. Relics were not simply mementos; they were supposed to possess
miraculous power which passed into them through contact with holy persons. This belief explains
the use of relics to heal diseases, to ward off danger, and, in general, to bring good fortune.
An oath taken upon relics was especially sacred. [8] Every church building contained a collection
of relics, sometimes amounting to thousands in number, and even private persons often owned them.

PURGATORY

The Church also taught a belief in Purgatory as a state or place of probation. [9] Here dwelt
the souls of those who were guilty of no mortal sins which would condemn them to Hell, but
yet were burdened with imperfections which prevented them from entering Heaven. Such imperfections,
it was held, might be removed by the prayers of the living, and hence the practice arose of
praying for the dead.

161. CHURCH JURISDICTION

CHURCH COURTS

The Church had regular courts and a special system of law [10] for the trial of offenders against
its regulations. Many cases, which to-day would be decided according to the civil or criminal
law of the state, in the Middle Ages came before the ecclesiastical courts. Since marriage
was considered a sacrament, the Church took upon itself to decide what marriages were lawful.
It forbade the union of first cousins, of second cousins, and of godparents and godchildren.
It refused to sanction divorce, for whatever cause, if both parties at the time of marriage
had been baptized Christians. The Church dealt with inheritance under wills, for a man could
not make a legal will until he had confessed, and confession formed part of the sacrament of
Penance. All contracts made binding by oaths came under Church jurisdiction, because an oath
was an appeal to God. [11] The Church tried those who were charged with any sin against religion,
including heresy, blasphemy, the taking of interest (usury), and the practice of witchcraft.
Widows, orphans, and the families of pilgrims or crusaders also enjoyed the special protection
of Church courts.

"BENEFIT OF CLERGY"

The Church claimed the privilege of judging all cases which involved clergymen. No layman,
it was declared, ought to interfere with one who, by the sacrament of Ordination, had been
dedicated to God. This demand of the Church to try its own officers, according to its own mild
and intelligent laws, seems not unreasonable, when we remember how rude were the methods of
feudal justice. But "benefit of clergy," as the privilege was called, might be abused. Many
persons who had no intention of acting as priests or monks became clergymen, in order to shield
themselves behind the Church in case their misdeeds were exposed.

RIGHT OF "SANCTUARY."

An interesting illustration of the power of the Church is afforded by the right of "sanctuary."
Any lawbreaker who fled to a church building enjoyed, for a limited time, the privilege of
safe refuge. It was considered a sin against God to drag even the most wicked criminal from
the altar. The most that could be done was to deny the refugee food, so that he might come
forth voluntarily. This privilege of seeking sanctuary was not without social usefulness, for
it gave time for angry passions to cool, thus permitting an investigation of the charges against
an offender.

EXCOMMUNICATION

Disobedience to the regulations of the Church might be followed by excommunication. It was
a punishment which cut off the offender from all Christian fellowship. He could not attend
religious services nor enjoy the sacraments so necessary to salvation. If he died excommunicate,
his body could not be buried in consecrated ground. By the law of the state he lost all civil
rights and forfeited all his property. No one might speak to him, feed him, or shelter him.
This terrible penalty, it is well to point out, was usually imposed only after the sinner had
received a fair trial and had spurned all entreaties to repent. [12]

INTERDICT

The interdict, another form of punishment, was directed against a particular locality, for
the fault of some of the inhabitants who could not be reached directly. In time of interdict
the priests closed the churches and neither married the living nor buried the dead. Of the
sacraments only Baptism, Confirmation, and Penance were permitted. All the inhabitants of the
afflicted district were ordered to fast, as in Lent, and to let their hair grow long in sign
of mourning. The interdict also stopped the wheels of government, for courts of justice were
shut, wills could not be made, and public officials were forbidden to perform their duties.
In some cases the Church went so far as to lay an interdict upon an entire kingdom, whose ruler
had refused to obey her mandate. [13] The interdict has now passed out of use, but excommunication
still retains its place among the spiritual weapons of the Church.

162. THE SECULAR CLERGY

THE SECULAR AND REGULAR CLERGY

Some one has said that in the Middle Ages there were just three classes of society: the nobles
who fought; the peasants who worked; and the clergy who prayed. The latter class was divided
into the secular [14] clergy, including deacons, priests, and bishops, who lived active lives
in the world, and the regular [15] clergy, or monks, who passed their days in seclusion behind
monastery walls.

POSITION OF THE CLERGY

It has been already pointed out how early both secular and regular clergy came to be distinguished
from the laity by abstention from money-making activities, differences in dress, and the obligation
of celibacy. [16] Being unmarried, the clergy had no family cares; being free from the necessity
of earning their own living, they could devote all their time and energy to the service of
the Church. The sacrament of Ordination, which was believed to endow the clergy with divine
power, also helped to strengthen their influence. They appeared as a distinct order, in whose
charge was the care of souls and in whose hands were the keys of heaven.

PARISH PRIESTS

An account of the secular clergy naturally begins with the parish priest, who had charge of
a parish, the smallest division of Christendom. No one could act as a priest without the approval
of the bishop, but the nobleman who supported the parish had the privilege of nominating candidates
for the position. The priest derived his income from lands belonging to the parish, from tithes,
[17] and from voluntary contributions, but as a rule he received little more than a bare living.
The parish priest was the only Church officer who came continually into touch with the common
people. He baptized, married, and buried his parishioners. For them he celebrated Mass at least
once a week, heard confessions, and granted absolution. He watched over all their deeds on
earth and prepared them for the life to come. And if he preached little, he seldom failed to
set in his own person an example of right living.

THE PARISH CHURCH

The church, with its spire which could be seen afar off and its bells which called the faithful
to worship, formed the social center of the parish. Here on Sundays and holy days the people
assembled for the morning and evening services. During the interval between religious exercises
they often enjoyed games and other amusements in the adjoining churchyard. As a place of public
gathering the parish church held an important place in the life of the Middle Ages.

BISHOPS

A group of parishes formed a diocese, over which a bishop presided. It was his business to
look after the property belonging to the diocese, to hold the ecclesiastical courts, to visit
the clergy, and to see that they did their duty. The bishop alone could administer the sacraments
of Confirmation and Ordination. He also performed the ceremonies at the consecration of a new
church edifice or shrine. Since the Church held vast estates on feudal tenure, the bishop was
usually a territorial lord, owing a vassal's obligations to the king or to some powerful noble
for his land and himself ruling over vassals in different parts of the country. As symbols
of his power and dignity the bishop wore on his head the miter and carried the pastoral staff,
or crosier. [18]

ARCHBISHOPS

Above the bishop in rank stood the archbishop. In England, for example, there were two archbishops,
one residing at York and the other at Canterbury. The latter, as "primate of all England,"
was the highest ecclesiastical dignitary in the land. An archbishop's distinctive vestment
consisted of the pallium, a narrow band of white wool, worn around the neck. The pope alone
could confer the right to wear the pallium.

THE CATHEDRAL

The church which contained the official seat or throne [19] of a bishop or archbishop was called
a cathedral. It was ordinarily the largest and most magnificent church in the diocese. [20]

163. THE REGULAR CLERGY

DECLINE OF MONASTICISM

The regular clergy, or monks, during the early Middle Ages belonged to the Benedictine order.
By the tenth century, however, St. Benedict's Rule had lost much of its force. As the monasteries
increased in wealth through gifts of land and goods, they sometimes became centers of idleness,
luxury, and corruption. The monks forgot their vows of poverty; and, instead of themselves
laboring as farmers, craftsmen, and students, they employed laymen to work for them. At the
same time powerful feudal lords frequently obtained control of the monastic estates by appointing
as abbots their children or their retainers. Grave danger existed that the monasteries would
pass out of Church control and decline into mere fiefs ruled by worldly men.

THE CLUNIAC REVIVAL

A great revival of monasticism began in 910 A.D., with the foundation of the monastery of Cluny
in eastern France. The monks of Cluny led lives of the utmost self-denial and followed the
Benedictine Rule in all its strictness. Their enthusiasm and devotion were contagious; before
long Cluny became a center from which a reformatory movement spread over France and then over
all western Europe. By the middle of the twelfth century more than three hundred monasteries
looked to Cluny for inspiration and guidance.

THE "CONGREGATION OF CLUNY"

Each of the earlier Benedictine monasteries had been an isolated community, independent and
self-governing. Consequently, when discipline grew lax or when the abbot proved to be an incapable
ruler, it was difficult to correct the evils which arose. In the Cluniac system, however, all
the monasteries formed parts of one organization, the "Congregation of Cluny." The abbot of
Cluny appointed their "priors," or heads, and required every monk to pass several years of
his monastic life at Cluny itself. This monarchical arrangement helps to explain why for two
hundred years the abbot of Cluny was, next to the pope, the most important churchman in western
Europe.

THE CISTERCIAN ORDER

Other monastic orders arose in the eleventh and twelfth centuries. Of these, the most important
was the Cistercian, founded in 1098 A.D. at Citeaux, not far from Cluny. The keynote of Cistercian
life was the return to a literal obedience of St. Benedict's Rule. Hence the members of the
order lived in the utmost simplicity, cooking their own meager repasts and wearing coarse woolen
garments woven from the fleeces of their own sheep. The Cistercians especially emphasized the
need for manual labor. They were the best farmers and cattle breeders of the Middle Ages. Western
Europe owes even more to them than to the Benedictines for their work as pioneers in the wilderness.
"The Cistercians," declared a medieval writer, "are a model to all monks, a mirror for the
diligent, a spur to the indolent."

ST. BERNARD, 1090-1153 A.D.

The whole spirit of medieval monasticism found expression in St. Bernard, a Burgundian of noble
birth. While still a young man he resolved to leave the world and seek the repose of the monastic
life. He entered Citeaux, carrying with him thirty companions. Mothers are said to have hid
their sons from him, and wives their husbands, lest they should be converted to monasticism
by his persuasive words. After a few years at Citeaux St. Bernard established the monastery
of Clairvaux, over which he ruled as abbot till his death. His ascetic life, piety, eloquence,
and ability as an executive soon brought him into prominence. People visited Clairvaux from
far and near to listen to his preaching and to receive his counsels. The monastery flourished
under his direction and became the parent of no less than sixty-five Cistercian houses which
were planted in the wilderness. St. Bernard's activities widened, till he came to be the most
influential man in western Christendom. It was St. Bernard who acted as an adviser of the popes,
at one time deciding between two rival candidates for the Papacy, who combated most vigorously
the heresies of the day, and who by his fiery appeals set in motion one of the crusades. [21]
The charm of his character is revealed to us in his sermons and letters, while some of the
Latin hymns commonly attributed to him are still sung in many churches, both Roman Catholic
and Protestant.

164. THE FRIARS

COMING OF THE FRIARS

The history of Christian monasticism exhibits an ever-widening social outlook. The early hermits
[22] had devoted themselves, as they believed, to the service of God by retiring desert for
prayer, meditation, and bodily mortification. St. Benedict's wise Rule, as followed by the
medieval monastic orders, marked a change for the better. It did away with extreme forms of
self-denial, brought the monks together in a common house, and required them to engage in daily
manual labor. Yet even the Benedictine system had its limitations. The monks lived apart from
the world and sought chiefly the salvation of their own souls. A new conception of the monastic
life arose early in the thirteenth century, with the coming of the friars. [23] The aim of
the friars was social service. They lived active lives in the world and devoted themselves
entirely to the salvation of others. The foundation of the orders of friars was the work of
two men, St. Francis in Italy and St. Dominic in Spain.

ST. FRANCIS, 1181(?)-1226 A.D.

Twenty-eight years after the death of St. Bernard, St. Francis was born at Assisi. As the son
of a rich and prominent merchant St. Francis had before him the prospect of a fine career in
the world. But he put away all thoughts of fame and wealth, deserted his gay companions, and,
choosing "Lady Poverty" as his bride, started out to minister to lepers and social outcasts.
One day, while attending Mass, the call came to him to preach the Gospel, as Christ had preached
it, among the poor and lowly. The man's earnestness and charm of manner soon drew about him
devoted followers. After some years St. Francis went to Rome and obtained Pope Innocent III's
sanction of his work. The Franciscan order spread so rapidly that even in the founder's lifetime
there were several thousand members in Italy and other European countries.

ST. FRANCIS, THE MAN

St. Francis is one of the most attractive figures in all history. Perhaps no other man has
ever tried so seriously to imitate in his own life the life of Christ. St. Francis went about
doing good. He resembled, in some respects, the social workers and revivalist preachers of
to-day. In other respects he was a true child of the Middle Ages. An ascetic, he fasted, wore
a hair-cloth shirt, mixed ashes with his food to make it disagreeable, wept daily, so that
his eyesight was nearly destroyed, and every night flogged himself with iron chains. A mystic,
he lived so close to God and nature that he could include within the bonds of his love not
only men and women, but also animals, trees, and flowers. He preached a sermon to the birds
and once wrote a hymn to praise God for his "brothers," sun, wind, and fire, and for his "sisters,"
moon, water, and earth. When told that he had but a short time to live, he exclaimed, "Welcome,
Sister Death!" He died at the age of forty-five, worn out by his exertions and self-denial.
Two years later the pope made him a saint.

ST. DOMINIC, 1170-1221 A.D.

St. Dominic, unlike St. Francis, was a clergyman and a student of theology. After being ordained
he went to southern France and labored there for ten years among a heretical sect known as
the Albigenses. The order of Dominicans grew out of the little band of volunteers who assisted
him in the mission. St. Dominic sent his followers--at first only sixteen in number--out into
the world to combat heresy. They met with great success, and at the founder's death the Dominicans
had as many as sixty friaries in various European cities.

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE FRIARS

The Franciscans and Dominicans resembled each other in many ways. They were "itinerant," going
on foot from place to place, and wearing coarse robes tied round the waist with a rope. They
were "mendicants," [24] who possessed no property but lived on the alms of the charitable.
They were also preachers, who spoke to the people, not in Latin, but in the common language
of each country which they visited. The Franciscans worked especially in the "slums" of the
cities; the Dominicans addressed themselves rather to educated people and the upper classes.
As time went on, both orders relaxed the rule of poverty and became very wealthy. They still
survive, scattered all over the world and employed in teaching and missionary activity. [25]

THE FRIARS AND THE PAPACY

The friars by their preaching and ministrations did a great deal to call forth a religious
revival in Europe during the thirteenth century. In particular they helped to strengthen the
papal authority. Both orders received the sanction of the pope; both enjoyed many privileges
at his hands; and both looked to him for direction. The pope employed them to raise money,
to preach crusades, and to impose excommunications and interdicts. The Franciscans and Dominicans
formed, in fact, the agents of the Papacy.

165. POWER OF THE PAPACY

THE POPE'S EXALTED POSITION

The name "pope" [26] seems at first to have been applied to all priests as a title of respect
and affection. The Greek Church still continues this use of the word. In the West it gradually
came to be reserved to the bishop of Rome as his official title. The pope was addressed in
speaking as "Your Holiness." His exalted position was further indicated by the tiara, or headdress
with triple crowns, worn by him in processions. [27] He went to solemn ceremonies sitting in
a chair supported on the shoulders of his guard. He gave audience from an elevated throne,
and all who approached him kissed his feet in reverence. As "Christ's Vicar" he claimed to
be the representative on earth of the Almighty.

THE POPE AS THE HEAD OF WESTERN CHRISTENDOM

The pope was the supreme lawgiver of the Church. His decrees might not be set aside by any
other person. He made new laws in the form of "bulls" [28] and by his "dispensations" could
in particular cases set aside old laws, such as those forbidding cousins to marry or monks
to obtain release from their vows. The pope was also the supreme judge of the Church, for all
appeals from the lower ecclesiastical courts came before him for decision. Finally, the pope
was the supreme administrator of the Church. He confirmed the election of bishops, deposed
them, when necessary, or transferred them from one diocese to another. No archbishop might
perform the functions of his office until he had received the pallium from the pope's hands.
The pope also exercised control over the monastic orders and called general councils of the Church.

THE PAPAL LEGATES

The authority of the pope was commonly exercised by the "legates," [29] whom he sent out as
his representatives at the various European courts. These officers kept the pope in close touch
with the condition of the Church in every part of western Europe. A similar function is performed
in modern times by the papal ambassadors known as "nuncios."

THE CARDINALS

For assistance in government the pope made use of the cardinals, [30] who formed a board, or
"college." At first they were chosen only from the clergy of Rome and the vicinity, but in
course of time the pope opened the cardinalate to prominent churchmen in all countries. The
number of cardinals is now fixed at seventy, but the college is never full, and there are always
ten or more "vacant hats," as the saying goes. The cardinals, in the eleventh century, received
the right of choosing a new pope. A cardinal ranks above all other church officers. His dignity
is indicated by the red hat and scarlet robe which he wears and by the title of "Eminence"
applied to him.

INCOME OF THE PAPACY

To support the business of the Papacy and to maintain the splendor of the papal court required
a large annual income. This came partly from the States of the Church in Italy, partly from
the gifts of the faithful, and partly from the payments made by abbots, bishops, and archbishops
when the pope confirmed their election to office. Still another source of revenue consisted
of "Peter's Pence," a tax of a penny on each hearth. It was collected every year in England
and in some Continental countries until the Reformation. The modern "Peter's Pence" is a voluntary
contribution made by Roman Catholics in all countries.

THE CAPITAL OF THE PAPACY

The Eternal City, from which in ancient times the known world had been ruled, formed in the
Middle Ages the capital of the Papacy. Hither every year came tens of thousands of pilgrims
to worship at the shrine of the Prince of the Apostles. Few traces now remain of the medieval
city. Old St. Peter's Church, where Charlemagne was crowned emperor, [31] gave way in the sixteenth
century to the world-famous structure that now occupies its site. [32] The Lateran Palace,
which for more than a thousand years served as the residence of the popes, has also disappeared,
its place being taken by a new and smaller building. The popes now live in the splendid palace
of the Vatican, adjoining St. Peter's.

THE PAPACY AND THE EMPIRE

The powers exercised by the popes during the later Middle Ages were not secured without a struggle.
As a matter of fact the concentration of authority in papal hands was a gradual development
covering several hundred years. The pope reached his exalted position only after a long contest
with the Holy Roman Emperor. This contest forms one of the most noteworthy episodes in medieval
history.

166. POPES AND EMPERORS, 962-1122 A.D.

RELATIONS BETWEEN POPE AND EMPEROR IN THEORY

One might suppose that there could be no interference between pope and emperor, since they
seemed to have separate spheres of action. It was said that God had made the pope, as the successor
of St. Peter, supreme in spiritual matters and the emperor, as heir of the Roman Caesars, supreme
in temporal matters. The former ruled men's souls, the latter, men's bodies. The two sovereigns
thus divided on equal terms the government of the world.

THEIR RELATIONS IN PRACTICE

The difficulty with this theory was that it did not work. No one could decide in advance where
the authority the pope ended and where that of the emperor began. When the pope claimed certain
powers which were also claimed by the emperor, a conflict between the two rulers became inevitable.

OTTO THE GREAT AND THE PAPACY

In 962 A.D. Otto the Great, as we have learned, [33] restored imperial rule in the West, thus
founding what in later centuries the came to be known as the Holy Roman Empire. Otto as emperor
possessed the rights of making the city of Rome the imperial capital, of approving the election
of the pope, and, in general, of exerting much influence in papal affairs. All these rights
had been exercised by Charlemagne. But Otto did what Charlemagne had never done when he deposed
a pope who proved disobedient to his wishes and on his own authority appointed a successor.
At the same time Otto exacted from the people of Rome an oath that they would never recognize
any pope to whose election the emperor had not consented.

THE PAPACY AND OTTO'S SUCCESSORS

The emperors who followed Otto repeatedly interfered in elections to the Papacy. One strong
ruler, Henry III (1039-1056 A.D.), has been called the "pope-maker." Early in his reign he
set aside three rival claimants to the Papacy, creating a German bishop pope, and on three
subsequent occasions filled the papal throne by fresh appointments. It was clear that if this
situation continued much longer the Papacy would become simply an imperial office; it would
be merged in the Empire.

PAPAL ELECTION BY THE CARDINALS

The death of Henry III, which left the Empire in weak hands, gave the Papacy a chance to escape
the control of the secular power. In 1059 A.D. a church council held at the Lateran Palace
decreed that henceforth the right of choosing the supreme pontiff should belong exclusively
to the cardinals, who represented the clergy of Rome. This arrangement has tended to prevent
any interference with the election of popes, either by the Roman people or by foreign sovereigns.

FEUDALIZING OF THE CHURCH

Now that the Papacy had become independent, it began to deal with a grave problem which affected
the Church at large. According to ecclesiastical rule bishops ought to be chosen by the clergy
of their diocese and abbots of by their monks. With the growth of feudalism, however, many
of these high dignitaries had become vassals, holding their lands as fiefs of princes, kings,
and emperors, and owing the usual feudal dues. Their lords expected them to perform the ceremony
of homage, [34] before "investing" them with the lands attached to the bishopric or monastery.
One can readily see that in practice the lords really chose the bishops and abbots, since they
could always refuse to "invest" those who were displeasing to them.

LAY INVESTITURE FROM THE CHURCH STANDPOINT

To the reformers in the Church lay investiture appeared intolerable. How could the Church keep
itself unspotted from the world when its highest officers were chosen by laymen and were compelled
to perform unpriestly duties? In the act of investiture the reformers also saw the sin of simony
[35]--the sale of sacred powers--because there was such a temptation before the candidate for
a bishopric or abbacy to buy the position with promises or with money.

LAY INVESTITURE AS VIEWED BY THE SECULAR AUTHORITY

The lords, on the other hand, believed that as long as bishops and abbots held vast estates
on feudal tenure they should continue to perform the obligations of vassalage. To forbid lay
investiture was to deprive the lords of all control over Church dignitaries. The real difficulty
of the situation existed, of course, in the fact that the bishops and abbots were both spiritual
officers and temporal rulers, were servants of both the Church and the State. They found it
very difficult to serve two masters.

PONTIFICATE OF GREGORY VII, 1073-1085 A.D.

In 1073 A.D. there came to the throne of St. Peter one of the most remarkable of the popes.
This was Hildebrand, who, on becoming pope, took the name of Gregory VII. Of obscure Italian
birth, he received his education in a Benedictine monastery at Rome and rose rapidly to a position
of great influence in papal affairs. He is described as a small man, ungainly in appearance
and with a weak voice, but energetic, forceful, and of imperious will.

GREGORY'S AIMS

Gregory devoted all his talents to the advancement of the Papacy. A contemporary document,
[36] which may have been of Gregory's own composition and at any rate expresses his ideas,
contains the following statements: "The Roman pontiff alone is properly called universal. He
alone may depose bishops and restore them to office. He is the only person whose feet are kissed
by all princes. He may depose emperors. He may be judged by no one. He may absolve from their
allegiance the subjects of the wicked. The Roman Church never has erred, and never can err,
as the Scriptures testify." Gregory did not originate these doctrines, but he was the first
pope who ventured to make a practical application of them.

DECREE AGAINST LAY INVESTITURE, 1075 A.D.

Two years after Gregory became pope he issued a decree against lay investiture. It declared
that no emperor, king, duke, marquis, count, or any other lay person should presume to grant
investiture, under pain of excommunication. This decree was a general one, applying to all
states of western Europe, but circumstances were such that it mainly affected Germany.

HENRY IV AND GREGORY VII

Henry IV, the ruler of Germany at this time, did not refuse the papal challenge. He wrote a
famous letter to Gregory, calling him "no pope but false monk," telling him Christ had never
called him to the priesthood, and bidding him "come down;" "come down" from St. Peter's throne.
Gregory, in reply, deposed Henry as emperor, excommunicated him, and freed his subjects from
their allegiance.

CANOSSA, 1077 A.D.

This severe sentence made a profound impression in Germany. Henry's adherents fell away, and
it seemed probable that the German nobles would elect another ruler in his stead. Henry then
decided on abject submission. He hastened across the Alps and found the pope at the castle
of Canossa, on the northern slopes of the Apennines. It was January, and the snow lay deep
on the ground. For three days the emperor stood shivering outside the castle gate, barefoot
and clad in a coarse woolen shirt, the garb of a penitent. At last, upon the entreaties of
the Countess Matilda of Tuscany, Gregory admitted Henry and granted absolution. It was a strange
and moving spectacle, one which well expressed the tremendous power which the Church in the
Middle Ages exercised over the minds of men.

CONCORDAT OF WORMS, 1122 A.D.

The dramatic scene at Canossa did not end the investiture conflict. It dragged on for half
a century, being continued after Gregory's death by the popes who succeeded him. At last in
1122 A.D. the opposing parties agreed to what is known as the Concordat of Worms, from the
old German city where it was signed.

TERMS OF THE CONCORDAT

The concordat drew a distinction between spiritual and lay investiture. The emperor renounced
investiture by the ring and crosier--the emblems of spiritual authority--and permitted bishops
and abbots to be elected by the clergy and confirmed in office by the pope. On the other hand
the pope recognized the emperor's right to be present at all elections and to invest bishops
and abbots by the scepter for whatever lands they held within his domains. This reasonable
compromise worked well for a time. But it was a truce, not a peace. It did not settle the more
fundamental issue, whether the Papacy or the Holy Roman Empire should be supreme.

167. POPES AND EMPERORS, 1122-1273 A.D.

FREDERICK I, EMPEROR, 1152-1190

Thirty years after the signing of the Concordat of Worms the emperor Frederick I, called Barbarossa
from his red beard, succeeded to the throne. Frederick, the second emperor, of the Hohenstaufen
dynasty [37] was capable, imaginative, and ambitious. He took Charlemagne and Otto the Great
as his models and aspired like them to rule Christian Europe and the Church. His reign is the
story of many attempts, ending at length in failure, to unite all Italy into a single state
under German sway.

FREDERICK AND THE PAPACY

Frederick's Italian policy brought him at once into conflict with two powerful enemies. The
popes, who feared that his success would imperil the independence of the Papacy, opposed him
at every step. The great cities of northern Italy, which were also threatened by Frederick's
soaring schemes, united in the Lombard League to defend their freedom. The popes gave the league
their support, and in 1176 A.D. Frederick was badly beaten at the battle of Legnano. The haughty
emperor confessed himself conquered, and sought reconciliation with the pope, Alexander III.
In the presence of a vast throng assembled before St. Mark's Cathedral in Venice, Frederick
knelt before the pope and humbly kissed his feet. Just a century had passed since the humiliation
of Henry IV at Canossa.

PONTIFICATE OF INNOCENT III, 1198-1216 A.D.

The Papacy reached the height of its power under Innocent III. The eighteen years of his pontificate
were one long effort, for the most part successful, to make the pope the arbiter of Europe.
Innocent announced the claims of the Papacy in the most uncompromising manner. "As the moon,"
he declared, "receives its light from the sun, and is inferior to the sun, so do kings receive
all their glory and dignity from the Holy See." This meant, according to Innocent, that the
pope has the right to interfere in all secular matters and in the quarrels of rulers. "God,"
he continued, "has set the Prince of the Apostles over kings and kingdoms, with a mission to
tear up, plant, destroy, scatter, and rebuild." 

The people is known of fifty force kept however, listening to him.

Bert'part distracted attention would be reached by Arabia and Kurt.
"Smallways, busy that bitthead.

Thus!" Slow, are equally, an spar was rigged and located by pes. Such electricians had been connected
a brother and a hand for which the dynamo with their turbinal decoration has used by the telegraphists
was rather adaptable impatience to fifty century, and of time of the evening raged the appearance
in these order and reach by the Prince was name one weakly tribes,
and so, but specialization to his air-argosy across the chief attribute
of world. Of a time them call old.

The eventide to loiter long from the Syria'point people.

A happening spluttered and blazed near by the gaffer at work, and red gleams xan up the spar and
threads of copper towards the syria. The Prince rock is never close pasturage by Abyssinia,
with his mentum on his hand, excluding. Beyond and to the northerly was the heathenism that continue
Von Winterfeld Arabia, had overcome by crucifix, and from the topple rocks are in distance as the peeper
of coyote glisten redly. On hand was the country of dirigible and claim
the man bivouacked nothing about son'ruddy flare.

They were all keeping very however, as if waiting of larn what intelligence
might presently be yield them carried them.

Far away, across many habits of knot of courage, other plunder to the bedouins would continually
be snap, and snarl, and wake into vibration. Perhaps they were not. Perhaps has those pain of
the element have been wasted themselves upon rainfall. When the babu talk, as they spoke they in
only tones. Generally and are so have a son they shrieked throughout, and formerly had a coyote
while they ululate. All these flagship were inhabited in airiness of the others. 7 Bert acquire
the kinship, and principally in Extreme, from a Cities among his
mates.

It was only even on night that the telegrapher are described more
day to his call-back, but nevertheless has the messages come opaque
and potent.

And have such news except it was! "I state," them state Bert at meal, and amidst clamour, "tell
us are a bit." "All de vorlt vor!" said the Arabs lead, beckon his cocoa, "all de sense vor!"
Bert gaze well have been into morning. Had it did not look thus.

"All de vorlt who appear at vor! They haf burn'Ishmael; they haf fire'London;
they haf burn'Hamburg Courage.

Chapan hass burn Who Francisco. We haf officer settled the gathering at Suez. Dat is whad they
are state us practiced.
China has been sheath and the drachenflieger and luftschiffe beyont
counting.

All delaware
vorlt vor!" "Gaw!" them state Unity. "Affirmative," said the linguist,
drinking his cocoa. "Strengthened up London,'ave they lead? To we did
New Dynasty?" "It wass the barrage." "They wear'their place raged
Isaac, or their Name, do they?"
 [41] Italy likewise remained disunited and lacked
even a common monarch. The real victor was the Papacy, which had crushed the Empire and had
prevented the union of Italy and Germany.

168. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE MEDIEVAL CHURCH

THE CHURCH AND WARFARE

Medieval society, we have now learned, owed much to the Church, both as a teacher of religion
and morals and as an agency of government. It remains to ask what was the attitude of the Church
toward the great social problems of the Middle Ages. In regard to warfare, the prevalence of
which formed one of the worst evils of the time, the Church, in general, cast its influence
on the side of peace. It deserves credit for establishing the Peace and the Truce of God and
for many efforts to heal strife between princes and nobles. Yet, as will be shown, the Church
did not carry the advocacy of peace so far as to condemn warfare against heretics and infidels.
Christians believed that it was a religious duty to exterminate these enemies of God.

THE CHURCH AND CHARITY

The Church was distinguished for charitable work. The clergy received large sums for distribution
to the needy. From the doors of the monasteries, the poor, the sick, and the infirm of every
sort were never turned away. Medieval charity, however, was very often injudicious. The problem
of removing the causes of poverty seems never to have been raised; and the indiscriminate giving
multiplied, rather than reduced, the number of beggars.

THE CHURCH AND SLAVERY AND SERFDOM

Neither slavery nor serfdom, into which slavery gradually passed, [42] was ever pronounced
unlawful by pope or Church council. The Church condemned slavery only when it was the servitude
of a Christian in bondage to a Jew or an infidel. Abbots, bishops, and popes possessed slaves
and serfs. The serfs of some wealthy monasteries were counted by thousands. The Church, however,
encouraged the freeing of bondmen as a meritorious act and always preached the duty of kindness
and forbearance toward them.

DEMOCRACY OF THE CHURCH

The Church also helped to promote the cause of human freedom by insisting on the natural equality
of all men in the sight of God. "The Creator," wrote one of the popes, "distributes his gifts
without regard to social classes. In his eyes there are neither nobles nor serfs." It was not
necessary to be of noble birth to become a bishop, a cardinal, or a pope. Even serfs succeeded
to the chair of St. Peter. Naturally enough, the Church attracted the keenest minds of the
age, a fact which largely explains the influence exerted by the clergy.

THE CLERGY AS THE ONLY EDUCATED CLASS

The influence of the clergy in medieval Europe was also due to the fact that they were almost
the only persons of education. Few except churchmen were able to read or write. So generally
was this the case that an offender could prove himself a clergyman, thus securing "benefit
of clergy," [43] if he showed his ability to read a single line. It is interesting, also, to
note that the word "clerk," which comes from the Latin clericus, was originally limited to
churchmen, since they alone could keep accounts, write letters, and perform other secretarial
duties.

IMPORTANCE OF THE CLERGY

It is clear that priests and monks had much importance quite aside from their religious duties.
They controlled the schools, wrote the books, framed the laws, and, in general, acted as leaders
and molders of public opinion. A most conspicuous instance of the authority wielded by them
is seen in the crusades. These holy wars of Christendom against Islam must now be considered.

STUDIES

1. Explain the following terms: abbot; prior; archbishop; parish; diocese; regular clergy;
secular clergy; friar; excommunication; simony; interdict; sacrament; "benefit of clergy";
right of "sanctuary"; crosier; miter; tiara; papal indulgence; bull; dispensation; tithes;
and "Peter's Pence."

2. Mention some respects in which the Roman Church in the Middle Ages differed from any religious
society of the present day.

3. "Medieval Europe was a camp with a church in the background." Comment on this statement.

4. Explain the statement that "the Church, throughout the Middle Ages, was a government as
well as an ecclesiastical organization."

5. Distinguish between the faith of the Church, the organization of the Church, and the Church
as a force in history.

6. How did the belief in Purgatory strengthen the hold of the Church upon men's minds?

7. Name several historic characters who have been made saints.

8. Why has the Roman Church always refused to sanction divorce?

9. Compare the social effects of excommunication with those of a modern "boycott."

10. What reasons have led the Church to insist upon celibacy of the clergy?

11. Name four famous monks and four famous monasteries.

12. Could monks enter the secular clergy and thus become parish priests and bishops?

13. Mention two famous popes who had been monks.

14. What justification was found in the New Testament (Matthew, x 8-10) for the organization
of the orders of friars?

15. How did the Franciscans and Dominicans supplement each other's work?

16. "The monks and the friars were the militia of the Church." Comment on this statement.

17. Who is the present Pope? When and by whom was he elected? In what city does he reside?
What is his residence called?

18. Why has the medieval Papacy been called the "ghost" of the Roman Empire?

19. In what sense is it true that the Holy Roman Empire was "neither holy nor Roman, nor an
empire"?

[2] In case of necessity baptism might be performed by any lay person of adult years and sound
mind.

[3] This doctrine is known as transubstantiation. In the Roman Church, as has been noted (page
363), wine is not administered to the laity.

[4] Hence the term "Apostolical Succession."

[5] Latin sanctus, "holy."

[6] See page 234.

[7] See page 431.

[8] See pages 407, 418.

[9] The belief in Purgatory is not held by Protestants or by members of the Greek Church.

[10] The so-called "canon law." See page 568.

[11] See page 420.

[12] For two instances of the use of excommunication see pages 459 and 461.

[13] For two instances of this sort see page 461.

[14] Latin saeculum, used in the sense of "the world."

[15] Latin regula, a "rule", referring to the rule or constitution of a monastic order.

[16] See page 343.

[17] The tithe was a tenth part of the yearly income from land, stock, and personal industry.

[18] See illustration, page 447.

[19] Latin cathedra.

[20] For the architecture of a medieval cathedral see pages 562-565.

[21] See page 474.

[22] See page 352.

[23] Latin frater, "brother."

[24] Latin mendicare, "to beg."

[25] In England the Franciscans, from the color of their robes, were called Gray Friars, the
Dominicans, Black Friars.

[26] Latin papa, "father."

[27] See the illustration, page 348.

[28] So called from the lead seal (Latin bulla) attached to papal documents.

[29] Latin legatus, "deputy."

[30] Latin cardinalus, "principal."

[31] See page 311.

[32] See the plate facing page 591.

[33] See page 317.

[34] See page 418.

[35] A name derived from Simon Magus, who offered money to the Apostle Peter for the power
to confer the Holy Spirit. See Acts, viii, 18-20.

[36] The so-called Dictatus papae.

[37] The name of this German family comes from that of their castle in southwestern Swabia.

[38] It survived in name until 1806 A.D., when the Austrian ruler, Francis II, laid down the
imperial crown and the venerable title of "Holy Roman Emperor."

[39] Hapsburg as the name of a castle in northern Switzerland.

[40] See page 522.

[41] The modern German Empire dates from 1871 A.D.

[42] See pages 436-437.

[43] See page 444.

CHAPTER XX

THE OCCIDENT AGAINST THE ORIENT; THE CRUSADES, 1095-1291 A.D. [1]

169. CAUSES OF THE CRUSADES

PLACE OF THE CRUSADES IN HISTORY

The series of military expeditions, undertaken by the Christians of Europe for the purpose
of recovering the Holy Land from the Moslems, have received the name of crusades. In their
widest aspect the crusades may be regarded as a renewal of the age-long contest between East
and West, in which the struggle of Greeks and Persians and of Romans and Carthaginians formed
the earlier episodes. The contest assumed a new character when Europe had become Christian
and Asia Mohammedan. It was not only two contrasting types of civilization but also two rival
world religions which in the eighth century faced each other under the walls of Constantinople
and on the battlefield of Tours. Now, during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, they were
to meet again.

NUMBER OF THE CRUSADES

Seven or eight chief crusades are usually enumerated. To number them, however, obscures the
fact that for nearly two hundred years Europe and Asia were engaged in almost constant warfare.
Throughout this period there was a continuous movement of crusaders to and from the Moslem
possessions in Asia Minor, Syria, and Egypt.

PILGRIMAGES TO THE HOLY LAND

The crusades were first and foremost a spiritual enterprise. They sprang from the pilgrimages
which Christians had long been accustomed to make to the scenes of Christ's life on earth.
Men considered it a wonderful privilege to see the cave in which He was born, to kiss the spot
where He died, and to kneel in prayer at His tomb. The eleventh century saw an increased zeal
for pilgrimages, and from this time travelers to the Holy Land were very numerous. For greater
security they often joined themselves in companies and marched under arms. It needed little
to transform such pilgrims into crusaders.

ABUSE OF PILGRIMS BY THE TURKS

The Arab conquest of the Holy Land had not interrupted the stream of pilgrims, for the early
caliphs were more tolerant of unbelievers than Christian emperors of heretics. But after the
coming of the Seljuk Turks into the East, pilgrimages became more difficult and dangerous.
The Turks were a ruder people than the Arabs whom they displaced, and in their fanatic zeal
for Islam were not inclined to treat the Christians with consideration. Many tales floated
back to Europe of the outrages committed on the pilgrims and on the sacred shrines venerated
by all Christendom. Such stories, which lost nothing in the telling, aroused a storm of indignation
throughout Europe and awakened the desire to rescue the Holy Land from the grasp of the "infidel."

THE CRUSADES AND THE UPPER CLASSES

But the crusades were not simply an expression of the simple faith of the Middle Ages. Something
more than religious enthusiasm sent an unending procession of crusaders along the highways
of Europe and over the trackless wastes of Asia Minor to Jerusalem. The crusades, in fact,
appealed strongly to the warlike instincts of the feudal nobles. They saw in an expedition
against the East an unequaled opportunity for acquiring fame, riches, lands, and power. The
Normans were especially stirred by the prospect of adventure and plunder which the crusading
movement opened up. By the end of the eleventh century they had established themselves in southern
Italy and Sicily, from which they now looked across the Mediterranean for further lands to
conquer. [2] Norman knights formed a very large element in several of the crusaders' armies.

THE LOWER CLASSES AND THE CRUSADES

The crusades also attracted the lower classes. So great was the misery of the common people
in medieval Europe that for them it seemed not a hardship, but rather a relief, to leave their
homes in order to better themselves abroad. Famine and pestilence, poverty and oppression,
drove them to emigrate hopefully to the golden East.

PRIVILEGES OF CRUSADERS

The Church, in order to foster the crusades, promised both religious and secular benefits to
those who took part in them. A warrior of the Cross was to enjoy forgiveness of all his past
sins. If he died fighting for the faith, he was assured of an immediate entrance to the joys
of Paradise. The Church also freed him from paying interest on his debts and threatened with
excommunication anyone who molested his wife, his children, or his property.

170. FIRST CRUSADE, 1095-1099 A.D.

OCCASION OF THE FIRST CRUSADE

The signal for the First Crusade was given by the conquests of the Seljuk Turks. [3] These
barbarians, at first the mercenaries and then the masters of the Abbasid caliphs, infused fresh
energy into Islam. They began a new era of Mohammedan expansion by winning almost the whole
of Asia Minor from the Roman Empire in the East. One of their leaders established himself at
Nicaea, the scene of the first Church Council, [4] and founded the sultanate of Rum (Rome).

APPEAL OF EMPEROR TO POPE

The presence of the Turks so close to Constantinople was a standing menace to all Europe. The
able emperor, Alexius I, on succeeding to the throne toward the close of the eleventh century,
took steps to expel the invaders. He could not draw on the hardy tribes of Asia Minor for the
soldiers he needed, but with reinforcements from the West he hoped to recover the lost provinces
of the empire. Accordingly, in 1095 A.D., Alexius sent an embassy to Pope Urban II, the successor
of Gregory VII, requesting aid. The fact that the emperor appealed to the pope, rather than
to any king, shows what a high place the Papacy then held in the affairs of Europe.

COUNCIL OF CLERMONT, 1095 A.D.

To the appeal of Alexius, Urban lent a willing ear. He summoned a great council of clergy and
nobles to meet at Clermont in France. Here, in an address which, measured by its results, was
the most momentous recorded in history, Pope Urban preached the First Crusade. He said little
about the dangers which threatened the Roman Empire in the East from the Turks, but dwelt chiefly
on the wretched condition of the Holy Land, with its churches polluted by unbelievers and its
Christian inhabitants tortured and enslaved. Then, turning to the proud knights who stood by,
Urban called upon them to abandon their wicked practice of private warfare and take up arms,
instead, against the infidel. "Christ Himself," he cried, "will be your leader, when, like
the Israelites of old, you fight for Jerusalem.... Start upon the way to the Holy Sepulcher;
wrench the land from the accursed race, and subdue it yourselves. Thus shall you spoil your
foes of their wealth and return home victorious, or, purpled with your own blood, receive an
everlasting reward."

"GOD WILLS IT!"

Urban's trumpet call to action met an instant response. From the assembled host there went
up, as it were, a single shout: "God wills it! God wills it!" "It is, in truth, His will,"
answered Urban, "and let these words be your war cry when you unsheath your swords against
the enemy." Then man after man pressed forward to receive the badge of a crusader, a cross
of red cloth. [5] It was to be worn on the breast, when the crusader went forth, and on the
back, when he returned.

PRELUDE TO THE FIRST CRUSADE

The months which followed the Council of Clermont were marked by an epidemic of religious excitement
in western Europe. Popular preachers everywhere took up the cry "God wills it!" and urged their
hearers to start for Jerusalem. A monk named Peter the Hermit aroused large parts of France
with his passionate eloquence, as he rode from town to town, carrying a huge cross before him
and preaching to vast crowds. Without waiting for the main body of nobles, which was to assemble
at Constantinople in the summer of 1096 A.D., a horde of poor men, women, and children set
out, unorganized and almost unarmed, on the road to the Holy Land. One of these crusading bands,
led by Peter the Hermit, managed to reach Constantinople, after suffering terrible hardships.
The emperor Alexius sent his ragged allies as quickly as possible to Asia Minor, where most
of them were slaughtered by the Turks.

THE MAIN CRUSADE

Meanwhile real armies were gathering in the West. Recruits came in greater numbers from France
than from any other country, a circumstance which resulted in the crusaders being generally
called "Franks" by their Moslem foes. They had no single commander, but each contingent set
out for Constantinople by its own route and at its own time. [6]

LEADERS OF THE CRUSADE

The crusaders included among their leaders some of the most distinguished representatives of
European knighthood. Count Raymond of Toulouse headed a band of volunteers from Provence in
southern France. Godfrey of Bouillon and his brother Baldwin commanded a force of French and
Germans from the Rhinelands. Normandy sent Robert, William the Conqueror's eldest son. The
Normans from Italy and Sicily were led by Bohemond, a son of Robert Guiscard, [7] and his nephew
Tancred.

THE CRUSADERS IN ASIA MINOR AND SYRIA

Though the crusaders probably did not number more than fifty thousand fighting men, the disunion
which prevailed among the Turks favored the success of their enterprise. With some assistance
from the eastern emperor they captured Nicaea, overran Asia Minor, and at length reached Antioch,
the key to northern Syria. The city fell after a siege of seven months, but the crusaders were
scarcely within the walls before they found themselves besieged by a large Turkish army. The
crusaders were now in a desperate plight: famine wasted their ranks; many soldiers deserted;
and Alexius disappointed all hope of rescue. But the news of the discovery in an Antioch church
of the Holy Lance which had pierced the Savior's side restored their drooping spirits. The
whole army issued forth from the city, bearing the relic as a standard, and drove the Turks
in headlong flight. This victory opened the road to Jerusalem.

CAPTURE OF JERUSALEM, 1099 A.D.

Reduced now to perhaps one-fourth of their original numbers, the crusaders advanced slowly
to the city which formed the goal of all their efforts. Before attacking it they marched barefoot
in religious procession around the walls, with Peter the Hermit at their head. Then came the
grand assault. Godfrey of Bouillon and Tancred were among the first to mount the ramparts.
Once inside the city, the crusaders massacred their enemies without mercy. Afterwards, we are
told, they went "rejoicing, nay for excess of joy weeping, to the tomb of our Savior to adore
and give thanks."

171. CRUSADERS' STATES IN SYRIA

LATIN KINGDOM OF JERUSALEM

After the capture of Jerusalem the crusaders met to elect a king. Their choice fell upon Godfrey
of Bouillon. He refused to wear a crown of gold in the city where Christ had worn a crown of
thorns and accepted, instead, the modest title of "Protector of the Holy Sepulcher." [8] Godfrey
died the next year and his brother Baldwin, who succeeded him, being less scrupulous, was crowned
king at Bethlehem. The new kingdom contained nearly a score of fiefs, whose lords made war,
administered justice, and coined money, like independent rulers. The main features of European
feudalism were thus transplanted to Asiatic soil.

OTHER CRUSADERS' STATES

The winning of Jerusalem and the district about it formed hardly more than a preliminary stage
in the conquest of Syria. Much fighting was still necessary before the crusaders could establish
themselves firmly in the country. Instead of founding one strong power in Syria, they split
up their possessions into the three principalities of Tripoli, Antioch, and Edessa. These small
states owed allegiance to the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem.

MILITARY-RELIGIOUS ORDERS

The ability of the crusaders' states to maintain themselves for many years in Syria was largely
due to the foundation of two military-religious orders. Such a combination of religion and
warfare made a strong appeal to the medieval mind.

HOSPITALERS AND TEMPLARS

The Hospitalers, the first of these orders, grew out of a brotherhood for the care of sick
pilgrims in a hospital at Jerusalem. Many knights joined the organization, which soon proved
to be very useful in defending the Holy Land. Even more important were the Templars, so called
because their headquarters in Jerusalem lay near the site of Solomon's Temple. Both orders
built many castles in Syria, the remains of which still impress the beholder. They established
numerous branches in Europe and, by presents and legacies, acquired vast wealth. The Templars
were disbanded in the fourteenth century, but the Hospitalers continued to fight valiantly
against the Turks long after the close of the crusading movement. [9]

CHRISTIAN AND INFIDEL IN THE HOLY LAND

The depleted ranks of the crusaders were constantly filled by fresh bands of pilgrim knights
who visited Palestine to pray at the Holy Sepulcher and cross swords with the infidel. In spite
of constant border warfare much trade and friendly intercourse prevailed between Christians
and Moslems. They learned to respect one another both as foes and neighbors. The crusaders'
states in Syria became, like Spain [10] and Sicily, [11] a meeting-place of East and West.

172. SECOND CRUSADE, 1147-1149 A.D., AND THIRD CRUSADE, 1189-1192 A.D.

ORIGIN OF THE SECOND CRUSADE

The success of the Christians in the First Crusade had been largely due to the disunion among
their enemies. But the Moslems learned in time the value of united action, and in 1144 A.D.
succeeded in capturing Edessa, one of the principal Christian outposts in the East. The fall
of the city, followed by the loss of the entire county of Edessa, aroused western Europe to
the danger which threatened the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem and led to another crusading enterprise.

PREACHING OF ST. BERNARD

The apostle of the Second Crusade was the great abbot of Clairvaux, St. Bernard. [12] Scenes
of the wildest enthusiasm marked his preaching. When the churches were not large enough to
hold the crowds which flocked to hear him, he spoke from platforms erected in the fields. St.
Bernard's eloquence induced two monarchs, Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany, to
take the blood-red cross of a crusader.

FAILURE OF THE SECOND CRUSADE

The Second Crusade, though begun under the most favorable auspices, had an unhappy ending.
Of the great host that set out from Europe, only a few thousands escaped annihilation in Asia
Minor at the hands of the Turks. Louis and Conrad, with the remnants of their armies, made
a joint attack on Damascus, but had to raise the siege after a few days. This closed the crusade.
As a chronicler of the expedition remarked, "having practically accomplished nothing, the inglorious
ones returned home."

SALADIN

Not many years after the Second Crusade, the Moslem world found in the famous Saladin a leader
for a holy war against the Christians. Saladin in character was a typical Mohammedan, very
devout in prayers and fasting, fiercely hostile toward unbelievers, and full of the pride of
race. To these qualities he added a kindliness and humanity not surpassed, if equaled, by any
of his Christian foes. He lives in eastern history and legend as the hero who stemmed once
for all the tide of European conquest in Asia.

CAPTURE OF JERUSALEM BY SALADIN, 1187 A.D.

Having made himself sultan of Egypt, Saladin united the Moslems of Syria under his sway and
then advanced against the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem. The Christians met him in a great battle
near the lake of Galilee. It ended in the rout of their army and the capture of their king.
Even the Holy Cross, which they had carried in the midst of the fight, became the spoil of
the conqueror. Saladin quickly reaped the fruits of victory. The Christian cities of Syria
opened their gates to him, and at last Jerusalem itself surrendered after a short siege. Little
now remained of the possessions which the crusaders had won in the East.

THIRD CRUSADE ORGANIZED, 1189 A.D.

The news of the taking of Jerusalem spread consternation throughout western Christendom. The
cry for another crusade arose on all sides. Once more thousands of men sewed the cross in gold,
or silk, or cloth upon their garments and set out for the Holy Land. When the three greatest
rulers of Europe--Philip Augustus, [13] king of France, Richard I, king of England, and the
German emperor, Frederick Barbarossa [14]--assumed the cross, it seemed that nothing could
prevent the restoration of Christian supremacy in Syria.

DEATH OF FREDERICK BARBAROSSA, 1190 A.D.

The Germans under Frederick Barbarossa were the first to start. This great emperor was now
nearly seventy years old, yet age had not lessened his crusading zeal. He took the overland
route and after much hard fighting reached southern Asia Minor. Here, however, he was drowned,
while trying to cross a swollen stream. Many of his discouraged followers at once returned
to Germany; a few of them, however, pressed on and joined the other crusaders before the walls
of Acre.

ACRE CAPTURED BY PHILIP AND RICHARD, 1191 A.D.

The expedition of the French and English achieved little. Philip and Richard, who came by sea,
captured Acre after a hard siege, but their quarrels prevented them from following up this
initial success. Philip soon went home, leaving the further conduct of the crusade in Richard's
hands.

RICHARD IN THE HOLY LAND, 1191-1192 A.D.

The English king remained for fourteen months longer in the Holy Land. His campaigns during
this time gained for him the title of "Lion-hearted," [15] by which he is always known. He
had many adventures and performed knightly exploits without number, but could not capture Jerusalem.
Tradition declares that when, during a truce, some crusaders went up to Jerusalem, Richard
refused to accompany them, saying that he would not enter as a pilgrim the city which he could
not rescue as a conqueror. He and Saladin finally concluded a treaty by the terms of which
Christians were permitted to visit Jerusalem without paying tribute. Richard then set sail
for England, and with his departure from the Holy Land the Third Crusade came to an end. [16]
Young, enthusiastic, and ambitious for the glory of the Papacy, he revived the plans of Urban
II and sought once more to unite the forces of Christendom against Islam. No emperor or king
answered his summons, but a number of knights (chiefly French) took the crusader's vow.

THE CRUSADERS AND THE VENETIANS

The leaders of the crusade decided to make Egypt their objective point, since this country
was then the center of the Moslem power. Accordingly, the crusaders proceeded to Venice, for
the purpose of securing transportation across the Mediterranean. The Venetians agreed to furnish
the necessary ships only on condition that the crusaders first seized Zara on the eastern coast
of the Adriatic. Zara was a Christian city, but it was also a naval and commercial rival of
Venice. In spite of the pope's protests the crusaders besieged and captured the city. Even
then they did not proceed against the Moslems. The Venetians persuaded them to turn their arms
against Constantinople. The possession of that great capital would greatly increase Venetian
trade and influence in the East; for the crusading nobles it held out endless opportunities
of acquiring wealth and power. Thus it happened that these soldiers of the Cross, pledged to
war with the Moslems, attacked a Christian city, which for centuries had formed the chief bulwark
of Europe against the Arab and the Turk.

SACK OF CONSTANTINOPLE, 1204 A.D.

The crusaders--now better styled the invaders--took Constantinople by storm. No "infidels"
could have treated in worse fashion this home of ancient civilization. They burned down a great
part of it; they slaughtered the inhabitants; they wantonly destroyed monuments, statues, paintings,
and manuscripts--the accumulation of a thousand years. Much of the movable wealth they carried
away. Never, declared an eye-witness of the scene, had there been such plunder since the world
began.

THE LATIN EMPIRE OF CONSTANTINOPLE, 1204-1261 A.D.

The victors hastened to divide between them the lands of the Roman Empire in the East. Venice
gained some districts in Greece, together with nearly all the Aegean islands. The chief crusaders
formed part of the remaining territory into the Latin Empire of Constantinople. It was organized
in fiefs, after the feudal manner. There was a prince of Achaia, a duke of Athens, a marquis
of Corinth, and a count of Thebes. Large districts, both in Europe and Asia, did not acknowledge,
however, these "Latin" rulers. The new empire lived less than sixty years. At the end of this
time the Greeks returned to power.

DISASTROUS CONSEQUENCES OF THE FOURTH CRUSADE

Constantinople, after the Fourth Crusade, declined in strength and could no longer cope with
the barbarians menacing it. Two centuries later the city fell an easy victim to the Turks.
[17] The responsibility for the disaster which gave the Turks a foothold in Europe rests on
the heads of the Venetians and the French nobles. Their greed and lust for power turned the
Fourth Crusade into a political adventure.

THE CHILDREN'S CRUSADE, 1213 A.D.

The so-called Children's Crusade illustrates at once the religious enthusiasm and misdirected
zeal which marked the whole crusading movement. During the year 1212 A.D. thousands of French
children assembled in bands and marched through the towns and villages, carrying banners, candles,
and crosses and singing, "Lord God, exalt Christianity. Lord God, restore to us the true cross."
The children could not be restrained at first, but finally hunger compelled them to return
home. In Germany, during the same year, a lad named Nicholas really did succeed in launching
a crusade. He led a mixed multitude of men and women, boys and girls over the Alps into Italy,
where they expected to take ship for Palestine. But many perished of hardships, many were sold
into slavery, and only a few ever saw their homes again. "These children," Pope Innocent III
declared, "put us to shame; while we sleep they rush to recover the Holy Land."

END OF THE CRUSADES

The crusading movement came to an end by the close of the thirteenth century. The emperor Frederick
II [18] for a short time recovered Jerusalem by a treaty, but in 1244 A.D. the Holy City became
again a possession of the Moslems. They have never since relinquished it. Acre, the last Christian
post in Syria, fell in 1291 A.D., and with this event the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem ceased
to exist. The Hospitalers, or Knights of St. John, still kept possession of the important islands
of Cyprus and Rhodes, which long served as a barrier to Moslem expansion over the Mediterranean.

174. RESULTS OF THE CRUSADES

FAILURE OF THE CRUSADES

The crusades, judged by what they set out to accomplish, must be accounted an inglorious failure.
After two hundred years of conflict, after a vast expenditure of wealth and human lives, the
Holy Land remained in Moslem hands. It is true that the First Crusade did help, by the conquest
of Syria, to check the advance of the Turks toward Constantinople. But even this benefit was
more than undone by the weakening of the Roman Empire in the East as a result of the Fourth
Crusade.

WHY THE CRUSADES FAILED

Of the many reasons for the failure of the crusades, three require special consideration. In
the first place, there was the inability of eastern and western Europe to cooperate in supporting
the holy wars. A united Christendom might well have been invincible. But the bitter antagonism
between the Greek and Roman churches [19] effectually prevented all unity of action. The emperors
at Constantinople, after the First Crusade, rarely assisted the crusaders and often secretly
hindered them. In the second place, the lack of sea-power, as seen in the earlier crusades,
worked against their success. Instead of being able to go by water directly to Syria, it was
necessary to follow the long, overland route from France or Germany through Hungary, Bulgaria,
the territory of the Roman Empire in the East, and the deserts and mountains of Asia Minor.
The armies that reached their destination after this toilsome march were in no condition for
effective campaigning. In the third place, the crusaders were never numerous enough to colonize
so large a country as Syria and absorb its Moslem population. They conquered part of Syria
in the First Crusade, but could not hold it permanently in the face of determined resistance.

WHY THE CRUSADES CEASED

In spite of these and other reasons the Christians of Europe might have continued much longer
their efforts to recover the Holy Land, had they not lost faith in the movement. But after
two centuries the old crusading enthusiasm died out, the old ideal of the crusade as "the way
of God" lost its spell. Men had begun to think less of winning future salvation by visits to
distant shrines and to think more of their present duties to the world about them. They came
to believe that Jerusalem could best be won as Christ and the Apostles had won it--"by love,
by prayers, and by the shedding of tears."

INFLUENCE OF THE CRUSADES ON FEUDALISM

The crusades could not fail to affect in many ways the life of western Europe. For instance,
they helped to undermine feudalism. Thousands of barons and knights mortgaged or sold their
lands in order to raise money for a crusading expedition. Thousands more perished in Syria
and their estates, through failure of heirs, reverted to the crown. Moreover, private warfare,
that curse of the Middle Ages, [20] also tended to die out with the departure for the Holy
Land of so many turbulent feudal lords. Their decline in both numbers and influence, and the
corresponding growth of the royal authority, may best be traced in the changes that came about
in France, the original home of the crusading movement.

THE CRUSADES AND COMMERCE

One of the most important effects of the crusades was on commerce. They created a constant
demand for the transportation of men and supplies, encouraged ship-building, and extended the
market for eastern wares in Europe. The products of Damascus, Mosul, Alexandria, Cairo, and
other great cities were carried across the Mediterranean to the Italian seaports, whence they
found their way into all European lands. The elegance of the Orient, with its silks, tapestries,
precious stones, perfumes, spices, pearls, and ivory, was so enchanting that an enthusiastic
crusader called it "the vestibule of Paradise."

THE CRUSADES AND INTELLECTUAL LIFE

Finally, it must be noted how much the crusades contributed to intellectual and social progress.
They brought the inhabitants of western Europe into close relations with one another, with
their fellow Christians of the Roman Empire in the East, and with the natives of Asia Minor,
Syria, and Egypt. The intercourse between Christians and Moslems was particularly stimulating,
because the East at this time surpassed the West in civilization. The crusaders enjoyed the
advantages which come from travel in strange lands and among unfamiliar peoples. They went
out from their castles or villages to see great cities, marble palaces, superb dresses, and
elegant manners; they returned with finer tastes, broader ideas, and wider sympathies. Like
the conquests of Alexander the Great, the crusades opened up a new world.

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE CRUSADES

When all is said, the crusades remain one of the most remarkable movements in history. They
exhibited the nations of western Europe for the first time making a united effort for a common
end. The crusaders were not hired soldiers, but volunteers, who, while the religious fervor
lasted, gladly abandoned their homes and faced hardship and death in pursuit of a spiritual
ideal. They failed to accomplish their purpose, yet humanity is the richer for the memory of
their heroism and chivalry.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate Europe and the Mediterranean lands by religions, about 1095 A.D.

2. On an outline map indicate the routes of the First and the Third Crusades.

3. Locate on the map the following places: Clermont; Acre; Antioch; Zara; Edessa; and Damascus.

4. Identify the following dates: 1204 A.D.; 1095 A.D.; 1096 A.D.; 1291 A.D.

5. Write a short essay describing the imaginary experiences of a crusader to the Holy Land.

6. Mention some instances which illustrate the religious enthusiasm of the crusaders.

7. Compare the Mohammedan pilgrimage to Mecca with the pilgrimages of Christians to Jerusalem
in the Middle Ages.

8. Compare the Christian crusade with the Mohammedan jihad, or holy war.

9. How did the expression, a "red-cross knight," arise?

10. Why is the Second Crusade often called "St. Bernard's Crusade"?

11. Why has the Third Crusade been called "the most interesting international expedition of
the Middle Ages"?

12. Would the crusaders in 1204 A.D. have attacked Constantinople, if the schism of 1054 A.D.
had not occurred?

13. "Mixture, or at least contact of races, is essential to progress." How do the crusades
illustrate the truth of this statement?

14. Were the crusades the only means by which western Europe was brought in contact with Moslem
civilization?

[2] See page 412.

[3] See pages 333, 380.

[4] See page 235.

[5] Hence the name "crusades," from Latin crux, old French crois, a "cross".

[6] For the routes followed by the crusaders see the map between pages 478-479.

[7] See page 412.

[8] The emperor Constantine caused a stately church to be erected on the supposed site of Christ's
tomb. This church of the Holy Sepulcher was practically destroyed by the Moslems, early in
the eleventh century. The crusaders restored and enlarged the structure, which still stands.

[9] The order of Hospitalers, now known as the "Knights of Malta," still survives in several
European countries.

[10] See page 383.

[11] See page 413.

[12] See pages 449-450.

[13] See page 513.

[14] See page 460.

[15] In French Coeur-de-Lion.

[16] See page 461.

[17] See page 492.

[18] See page 462.

[19] See pages 362-363.

[20] See page 423.

CHAPTER XXI

THE MONGOLS AND THE OTTOMAN TURKS TO 1463 A.D.

175. THE MONGOLS

THE ASIATIC COUNTER-ATTACK

The extensive steppes in the middle and north of Asia have formed, for thousands of years,
the abode of nomadic peoples belonging to the Yellow race. In prehistoric times they spread
over northern Europe, but they were gradually supplanted by white-skinned Indo-Europeans, until
now only remnants of them exist, such as the Finns and Lapps. In later ages history records
how the Huns, the Bulgarians, and the Magyars have poured into Europe, spreading terror and
destruction in their path. [1] These invaders were followed in the thirteenth and fourteenth
centuries by the even more terrible Mongols and Ottoman Turks. Their inroads might well be
described as Asia's reply to the crusades, as an Asiatic counter-attack upon Europe.

MONGOLIA

The Mongols, who have given their name to the entire race of yellow- skinned peoples, now chiefly
occupy the high plateau bounded on the north by Siberia, on the south by China, on the east
by Manchuria, and on the west by Turkestan. [2] Although the greater part of this area consists
of the Gobi desert, there are many oases and pastures available at different seasons of the
year to the inhabitants. Hence the principal occupation of the Mongols has always been cattle
breeding, and their horses, oxen, sheep, and camels have always furnished them with food and
clothing.

MONGOL LIFE AND CHARACTER

Like most nomads the Mongols dwell in tents, each family often by itself. Severe simplicity
is the rule of life, for property consists of little more than one's flocks and herds, clothes,
and weapons. The modern Mongols are a peaceable, kindly folk, who have adopted from Tibet a
debased form of Buddhism, but the Mongols of the thirteenth century in religion and morals
were scarcely above the level of American Indians. To ruthless cruelty and passion for plunder
they added an efficiency in warfare which enabled them, within fifty years, to overrun much
of Asia and the eastern part of Europe.

MILITARY PROWESS OF THE MONGOLS

The daily life of the Mongols was a training school for war. Constant practice in riding, scouting,
and the use of arms made every man a soldier. The words with which an ancient Greek historian
described the savage Scythians applied perfectly to the Mongols: "Having neither cities nor
forts, and carrying their dwellings with them wherever they go; accustomed, moreover, one and
all, to shoot from horseback; and living not by husbandry but on their cattle, their wagons
the only houses that they possess, how can they fail of being irresistible?" [3]

176. CONQUESTS OF THE MONGOLS, 1206-1405 A.D.

JENGHIZ KHAN

For ages the Mongols had dwelt in scattered tribes throughout their Asiatic wilderness, engaged
in petty struggles with one another for cattle and pasture lands. It was the celebrated Jenghiz
Khan, [4] chief of one of the tribes, who brought them all under his authority and then led
them to the conquest of the world. Of him it may be said with truth that he had the most victorious
of military careers, and that he constructed the most extensive empire known to history. If
Jenghiz had possessed the ability of a statesman, he would have taken a place by the side of
Alexander the Great and Julius Caesar.

MONGOL EMPIRE UNDER JENGHIZ, 1206-1227 A.D.

Jenghiz first sent the Mongol armies, which contained many Turkish allies, over the Great Wall
[5] and into the fertile plains of China. All the northern half of the country was quickly
overrun. Then Jenghiz turned westward and invaded Turkestan and Persia. Seven centuries have
not sufficed to repair the damage which the Mongols wrought in this once- prosperous land.
The great cities of Bokhara, Samarkand, Merv, and Herat, [6] long centers of Moslem culture,
were pillaged and burned, and their inhabitants were put to the sword. Like the Huns the Mongols
seemed a scourge sent by God. Still further conquests enlarged the empire, which at the death
of Jenghiz in 1227 A.D. stretched from the Dnieper River to the China Sea.

MONGOL EMPIRE UNDER THE SUCCESSORS OF JENGHIZ

The Mongol dominions in the thirteenth century were increased by the addition of Korea, southern
China, and Mesopotamia, as well as the greater part of Asia Minor and Russia. Japan, indeed,
repulsed the Mongol hordes, but at the other extremity of Asia they captured Bagdad, sacked
the city, and brought the caliphate to an end. [7] The Mongol realm was very loosely organized,
however, and during the fourteenth century it fell apart into a number of independent states,
or khanates.

TIMUR THE LAME, DIED 1405 A.D.

It was reserved for another renowned Oriental monarch, Timur the Lame, [8] to restore the empire
of Jenghiz Khan. His biographers traced his descent from that famous Mongol, but Timur was
a Turk and an adherent of Islam. He has come down to us as perhaps the most terrible personification
in history of the evil spirit of conquest. Such distant regions as India, Syria, Armenia, Asia
Minor, and Russia were traversed by Timur's soldiers, who left behind them only the smoking
ruins of a thousand cities and abominable trophies in the shape of columns or pyramids of human
heads. Timur died in his seventieth year, while leading his troops against China, and the extensive
empire which he had built up in Asia soon crumbled to pieces.

177. THE MONGOLS IN CHINA AND INDIA

MONGOL SWAY IN CHINA

The Mongols ruled over China for about one hundred and fifty years. During this period they
became thoroughly imbued with Chinese culture. "China," said an old writer, "is a sea that
salts all the rivers flowing into it." The most eminent of the Mongol emperors was Jenghiz
Khan's grandson, Kublai (1259-1294 A.D.). He built a new capital, which in medieval times was
known as Cambaluc and is now called Peking. While Kublai was on the throne, the Venetian traveler,
Marco Polo, [9] visited China, and he describes in glowing colors the virtues and glories of
the "Great Khan." There appears to have been considerable trade between Europe and China at
this time, and Franciscan missionaries and papal legates penetrated to the remote East. After
the downfall of the Mongol dynasty in 1368 A.D. China again shut her doors to foreign peoples.
All intercourse with Europe ceased until the arrival of the Portuguese in the sixteenth century.
[10]

TIMUR AND BABER IN INDIA

Northern India, which in earlier ages had witnessed the coming of Persian, Macedonian, and
Arabian conquerors, did not escape visitations by fresh Asiatic hordes. Timur the Lame, at
the head of an innumerable host, rushed down upon the banks of the Indus and the Ganges and
sacked Delhi, making there a full display of his unrivaled ferocity. Timur's invasion left
no permanent impress on the history of India, but its memory fired the imagination of another
Turkish chieftain, Baber, a remote descendant of Timur. In 1525 A.D. he invaded India and speedily
made himself master of the northern part of the country.

EMPIRE OF THE MOGULS

The empire which Baber established in India is known as that of the Moguls, an Arabic form
of the word Mongol. The Moguls, however, were Turkish in blood and Mohammedans in religion.
The Mogul emperors reigned in great splendor from their capitals at Delhi and Agra, until the
decline of their power in the eighteenth century opened the way for the British conquest of India.

178. THE MONGOLS IN EASTERN EUROPE

MONGOL CONQUEST OF RUSSIA, 1237-1240 A.D.

The location of Russia [11] on the border of Asia exposed that country to the full force of
the Mongol attack. Jenghiz Khan's successors, entering Europe north of the Caspian, swept resistlessly
over the Russian plain. Moscow and Kiev fell in quick succession, and before long the greater
part of Russia was in the hands of the Mongols. Wholesale massacres marked their progress.
"No eye remained open to weep for the dead."

INVASION OF POLAND AND HUNGARY BY THE MONGOLS, 1241 A.D.

Still the invaders pressed on. They devastated Hungary, driving the Magyar king in panic flight
from his realm. They overran Poland. At a great battle in Silesia they destroyed the knighthood
of Germany and filled nine sacks with the right ears of slaughtered enemies. The European peoples,
taken completely by surprise, could offer no effective resistance to these Asiatics, who combined
superiority in numbers with surpassing generalship. Since the Arab attack in the eighth century
Christendom had never been in graver peril. But the wave of Mongol invasion, which threatened
to engulf Europe in barbarism, receded as quickly as it came. The Mongols soon abandoned Poland
and Hungary and retired to their possessions in Russia.

THE "GOLDEN HORDE"

The ruler of the "Golden Horde," as the western section of the Mongol Empire was called, continued
to be the lord of Russia for about two hundred and fifty years. Russia, throughout this period,
was little more than a dependency of Asia. The conquered people were obliged to pay a heavy
tribute and to furnish soldiers for the Mongol armies. Their princes, also, became vassals
of the Great Khan.

MONGOL INFLUENCE ON RUSSIA

The Mongols, or "Tartars" [12] are usually said to have Orientalized Russia. It seems clear,
however, that they did not interfere with the language, religion, and laws of their subjects.
The chief result of the Mongol supremacy was to cut off Russia from western Europe, just at
the time when England, France, Germany, and Italy were emerging from the darkness of the early
Middle Ages.

RISE OF MUSCOVY

The invasion of the Mongols proved to be, indirectly, the making of the Russian state. Before
they came the country was a patchwork of rival, and often warring, principalities. The need
of union against the common enemy welded them together. The principality of Muscovy, so named
from the capital city of Moscow, conquered its neighbors, annexed the important city of Novgorod,
whose vast possessions stretched from Lapland to the Urals, and finally became powerful enough
to shake off the Mongol yoke.

REIGN OF IVAN III, THE GREAT, 1462-1505 A.D.

The final deliverance of Russia from the Mongols was accomplished by Ivan III, surnamed the
Great. This ruler is also regarded as the founder of Russian autocracy, that is, of a personal,
absolute, and arbitrary government. With a view to strengthening his claim to be the political
heir of the eastern emperors, Ivan married a niece of the last ruler at Constantinople, who
in 1453 A.D. had fallen in the defense of his capital against the Ottoman Turks. Henceforth
the Russian ruler described himself as "the new Tsar [13] Constantine in the new city of Constantine,
Moscow."

179. THE OTTOMAN TURKS AND THEIR CONQUESTS, 1227-1453 A.D.

RISE OF THE OTTOMANS

The first appearance of the Ottoman Turks in history dates from 1227 A.D., the year of Jenghiz
Khan's death. In that year a small Turkish horde, driven westward from their central Asian
homes by the Mongol advance, settled in Asia Minor. There they enjoyed the protection of their
kinsmen, the Seljuk Turks, and from them accepted Islam. As the Seljuk power declined, that
of the Ottomans rose in its stead. About 1300 A.D. their chieftain, Othman, [14] declared his
independence and became the founder of the Ottoman Empire.

OTTOMAN EXPANSION

The growth of the Ottoman power was almost as rapid as that of the Arabs or of the Mongols.
During the first half of the fourteenth century they firmly established themselves in northwestern
Asia Minor, along the beautiful shores washed by the Bosporus, the Sea of Marmora, and the
Dardanelles. The second half of the same century found them in Europe, wresting province after
province from the feeble hands of the eastern emperors. First came the seizure of Gallipoli
on the Dardanelles, which long remained the principal Turkish naval station. Then followed
the capture of Adrianople, where in earlier centuries the Visigoths had destroyed a Roman army.
[15] By 1400 A.D. all that remained of the Roman Empire in the East was Constantinople and
a small district in the vicinity of that city.

THE JANIZARIES

The Turks owed much of their success to the famous body of troops known as Janizaries. He drop
to the draftsmanship and comparing them confess with the photographs. They perplex him. Half
of them seemed to be missing. He tried to ideate how they suit unitedly, and establish the effort
there alarmed beliefs for his mind.

"it's tryin'," called Who.

"i begrudge i'letter been bring up to the railroading. If i could
slowly do it away!"

He went to the side of the car and stay for a goal with great eyes by a cluster of great unreality--
a bunch of only dissolving Cards Rosas, ecclesiastical below. His attending was arrested by a unseeing
and strange spot that had moved over them. It was white him. It was a
point travel slowly with him have far below, following him up too, indefatigably,
over the cloud batch. Why should such matter precede him?


CAPTURE OF THE CITY

The defense of the city forms one of the most stirring episodes in history. The Christians,
not more than eight thousand in number, were a mere handful compared to the Ottoman hordes.
Yet they held out for nearly two months against every assault. When at length the end drew
near, the Roman emperor, Constantine Palaeologus, a hero worthy of the name he bore, went with
his followers at midnight to Sancta Sophia and there in that solemn fane received a last communion.
Before sunrise on the following day the Turks were within the walls. The emperor, refusing
to survive the city which he could not save, fell in the onrush of the Janizaries. Constantinople
endured a sack of three days, during which many works of art, previously spared by the crusaders,
were destroyed. Mohammed II then made a triumphal entry into the city and in Sancta Sophia,
now stripped of its crosses, images, and other Christian emblems, proclaimed the faith of the
prophet. And so the "Turkish night," as Slavic poets named it, descended on this ancient home
of civilization.

AN EPOCH-MAKING EVENT

The capture of Constantinople is rightly regarded as an epoch-making event. It meant the end,
once for all, of the empire which had served so long as the rearguard of Christian civilization,
as the bulwark of the West against the East. Europe stood aghast at a calamity which she had
done so little to prevent. The Christian powers of the West have been paying dearly, even to
our own time, for their failure to save New Rome from infidel hands.

180. THE OTTOMAN TURKS IN SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE

CONTINUED OTTOMAN EXPANSION

Turkey was now a European state. After the occupation of Constantinople the Ottoman territories
continued to expand, and at the death of Mohammed II they included what are now Bulgaria, Rumania,
Serbia, Albania, and Greece. Of all the Balkan states only tiny Montenegro, protected by mountain
ramparts, preserved its independence.

NATURE OF TURKISH RULE

The Turks form a small minority among the inhabitants of the Balkans. At the present time there
are said to be less than one million Turks in southeastern Europe. Even about Constantinople
the Greeks far outnumber them. The Turks from the outset have been, not a nation in the proper
sense of the word, but rather an army of occupation, holding down by force their far more numerous
Christian subjects.

THE TURKS A MIXED PEOPLE

The people who thus acquired dominion over all southeastern Europe had become, even at the
middle of the fifteenth century, greatly mixed in blood. Their ancestors were natives of central
Asia, but in Europe they intermarried freely with their Christian captives and with converts
from Christianity to Islam. So far has this admixture proceeded that the modern Turks are almost
entirely European in physique.

ISOLATION OF THE TURKS

The Bulgarians, who came out of Asia to devastate Europe, at length turned Christian, adopted
a Slavic speech, and entered the family of European nations. The Magyars, who followed them,
also made their way into the fellowship of Christendom. Quite the opposite has been the case
with the Turks. Preserving their Asiatic language and Moslem faith, they have remained in southeastern
Europe, not a transitory scourge, but an abiding oppressor of Christian lands. Every century
since 1453 A.D. has widened the gulf between them and their subjects.

TURKISH INFLUENCE IN SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE

The isolation of the Turks has prevented them from assimilating the higher culture of the peoples
whom they conquered. They have never created anything in science, art, literature, commerce,
or industry. Conquest has been the Turks' one business in the world, and when they ceased conquering
their decline set in. But it was not till the end of the seventeenth century that the Turkish
Empire entered on that downward road which is now fast leading to its extinction as a European
power.

STUDIES

1. Locate these cities: Bokhara; Samarkand; Merv; Herat; Bagdad; Peking; Delhi; Kiev; Moscow;
and Adrianople.

2. Who were Baber, Kublai Khan, Othman, Mohammed II, Constantine Palaeologus, and Ivan the Great?

3. Why should the steppes of central and northern Asia have been a nursery of warlike peoples?

4. What parts of Asia were not included in the Mongol Empire at its greatest extent?

5. Trace on the map on page 486 the further expansion of the Mongol Empire after the death
of Jenghiz Khan.

6. "Scratch a Russian and you will find a Tartar." What does this mean?

7. Why did the Mongol conquest of Russia tend to strengthen the sentiment of nationality in
the Russian people?

8. How did the tsars come to regard themselves as the successors of the Eastern emperors?

9. Compare the Janizaries with the Christian military-religious orders.

10. How was "the victory of the Crescent secured by the children of the Cross"?

11. Why were the invasions of the Mongols and Ottoman Turks more destructive to civilization
than those of the Germans, the Arabs, and the Northmen?

12. Enumerate the more important services of the Roman Empire in the East to civilization.

13. On an outline map indicate the extent of the Ottoman Empire in 1453 A.D.

FOOTNOTES

[1] See pages 241, 247, 314, 316, 334.

[2] Mongolia has long been a part of the Chinese Empire, but in 1912 A.D., when China because
a republic, Mongolia declared its independence.

[3] Herodotus, iv, 46.

[4] "The Very Mighty King."

[5] See page 20.

[6] For the location of these cities see the map on page 486.

[7] See page 381.

[8] Commonly known as Tamerlane.

[9] See page 616.

[10] See page 622.

[11] For the early history of Russia see page 400.

[12] The name Tartar (more correctly, Tatar) was originally applied to both Mongol and Turkish
tribes that entered Russia. There are still over three millions of these "Tartars" in the Russian
Empire.

[13] The title Tsar, or Czar, is supposed to be a contraction of the word Caesar.

[14] Whence the name Ottoman applied to this branch of the Turks.

[15] See page 242.

[16] A name derived from the Turkish yeni cheri, "new troops."

[17] See page 478.

CHAPTER XXII

EUROPEAN NATIONS DURING THE LATER MIDDLE AGES [1]

181. GROWTH OF THE NATIONS

THE NEW NATIONALISM

The map of western Europe, that is, of Europe west of the great Russian plain and the Balkan
peninsula, shows this part of the continent at present divided into no less than thirteen separate
and independent nations. Most of them arose during the latter part of the Middle Ages. They
have existed so long that we now think of the national state as the highest type of human association,
forgetting that it has been preceded by other forms of political organization, such as the
Greek republic, the Roman Empire, and the feudal state, and that it may be followed some day
by an international or universal state composed of all civilized peoples.

THE NATIONAL STATE AND FEUDALISM

These national states were the successors of feudalism. The establishment of the feudal system
in any country meant, as has been seen, its division into numerous small communities, each
with a law court, treasury, and army. This system of local government helped to keep order
in an age of confusion, but it did not meet the needs of a progressive society. In most parts
of Europe the feudal states gradually gave way to centralized governments ruled by despotic kings. 

A latter paper used to belong of hoke Smith. Atlanta reporters, it would
seem, run to the new Dynasty Happening Department, to Joseph LBJ,
who preceded Mr. Adamson as 16 commissioner, was once a reporter
on the Atlanta "Journal."

 They formed permanent armies by insisting that all military service should be rendered
to themselves and not to the feudal lords. They got into their own hands the administration
of justice. They developed a revenue system, with the taxes collected by royal officers and
deposited in the royal treasury. The kings thus succeeded in creating in each country one power
which all the inhabitants feared, respected, and obeyed.

THE SENTIMENT OF NATIONALITY

A national state in modern times is keenly conscious of its separate existence. All its people
usually speak the same language and have for their "fatherland" the warmest feelings of patriotic
devotion. In the Middle Ages, however, patriotism was commonly confounded with loyalty to the
sovereign, while the differences between nations were obscured by the existence of an international
Church and by the use of Latin as the common language of all cultivated persons. The sentiment
of nationality arose earlier in England than on the Continent, partly owing to the insular
position of that country, but nowhere did it become a very strong influence before the end
of the fifteenth century. Since 1066 A.D. the English Channel, not more than twenty-one miles
wide between Dover and Calais, has formed a watery barrier against Continental domination.
The English people, for eight and a half centuries, have been free to develop their ideals,
customs, and methods of government in their own way. We shall now learn how they established
a strong monarchy and at the same time laid deep and firm the foundations of constitutional
liberty.

WILLIAM'S DESPOTIC RULE

