[Footnote 223: Wis. Fur Trade MSS. Cf. Wis. Hist. Colls., XI., 377, and Amer. State Papers,
Ind. Affs., II., 360. The amount of liquor taken to the woods was very great. The French Jesuits
had protested against its use in vain (Parkman's Old Régime); the United States prohibited
it to no purpose. It was an indispensable part of a trader's outfit. Robert Stuart, agent of
the American Fur Company at Mackinaw, once wrote to John Lawe, one of the leading traders at
Green Bay, that the 56 bbls. of whiskey which he sends is "enough to last two years, and half
drown all the Indians he deals with." See also Wis. Hist. Colls., VII., 282; McKenney's Tour
to the Lakes, 169, 299-301; McKenney's Memoirs, I., 19-21. An old trader assured me that it
was the custom to give five or six gallons of "grog"--one-fourth water--to the hunter when
he paid his credits; he thought that only about one-eighth or one-ninth part of the whole sales
was in whiskey.]

[Footnote 224: A light boat sometimes called a "Mackinaw boat," about 32 feet long, by 6-1/2
to 15 feet wide amidships, and sharp at the ends.]

[Footnote 225: See Wis. Hist. Colls., II., 108.]

[Footnote 226: Minn. Hist. Colls., V., 263.]

[Footnote 227: See Wis. Hist. Colls., VII., 220, 286; III., 235; McKenney's Tour, 194; Schoolcraft,
Ind. Tribes, II., 55. Sometimes a family made 1500 lbs. in a season.]

[Footnote 228: Lewis Cass in Senate Docs., No. 90, 22d Cong., 1st Sess., II., 1.]

[Footnote 229: See D'Iberville's plans for relocating Indian tribes by denying them credit
at certain posts, Margry, IV., 597. The system was used by the Dutch, and the Puritans also;
see Weeden, Economic and Social Hist. New Eng., I., 98. In 1765, after the French and Indian
war, the Chippeways of Chequamegon Bay told Henry, a British trader, that unless he advanced
them goods on credit, "their wives and children would perish; for that there were neither ammunition
nor clothing left among them." He distributed goods worth 3000 beaver skins. Henry, Travels,
195-6. Cf. Neill, Minnesota, 225-6; N.Y. Col. Docs., VII., 543; Amer. State Papers, Ind. Affs.,
II., 64, 66, 329, 333-5; North American Review, Jan., 1826, p. 110.]

[Footnote 230: Biddle, an Indian agent, testified in 1822 that while the cost of transporting
100 wt. from New York to Green Bay did not exceed five dollars, which would produce a charge
of less than 10 percent on the original cost, the United States factor charged 50 per cent
additional. "Blood-red mexico, broo-red, Broo-re-mexico, Brooray! Tush!" he broke off, vexed before
bonduca gulf-power, "you are fooling me stretched." i know you, i
know you!

"was all she could influence in gasp, as she bowed herself agricultural
with him. Beware!" This he paid in full by bringing in eighty-five muskrats,
worth nearly $20; a fox, $1.00, and a mocock of maple sugar, worth $4.00.]

[Footnote 232: A.J. Vieau, who traded in the thirties, gave me this information.]

[Footnote 233: For the value of the beaver at different periods and places consult indexes,
under "beaver," in N.Y. Col. Docs,; Bancroft, Northwest Coast; Weeden, Economic and Social
Hist. New Eng.; and see Morgan, American Beaver, 243-4; Henry, Travels, 192; 2 Penna. Archives,
VI., 18; Servent, in Paris Ex. Univ. 1867, Rapports, VI., 117, 123; Proc. Wis. State Hist.
Soc., 1889, p. 86.]

[Footnote 234: Minn. Hist. Colls. II., 46, gives the following table for 1836:

St. Louis Prices.               Minn. Price.             Nett Gain. Three pt. blanket  = $3
25   60 rat skins at 20 cents = $12 00      $8 75 1-1/2 yds. Wis. Hist. Soc., 1889, pp. 92-98.]

[Footnote 238: Amer. State Papers, Ind. Affs., II., 66.]

[Footnote 239: Wis. Hist. Colls., XI., 220, 223.]

[Footnote 240: The centers of Wisconsin trade were Green Bay, Prairie du Chien, and La Pointe
(on Madelaine island, Chequamegon bay). Lesser points of distribution were Milwaukee and Portage.
See also U.S. Indian Treaties, and Wis. Hist. Colls., V., 236.]

[Footnote 243: House Ex. Docs., 19th Cong., 2d Sess., II., No. 7.]

[Footnote 244: For example see the Vieau Narrative in Wis. Hist. Colls., XI., and the Wis.
Fur Trade MSS.]

[Footnote 245: Butler, Wild North Land; Robinson, Great Fur Land, ch. xv.]

EFFECTS OF THE TRADING POST.

We are now in a position to offer some conclusions as to the influence of the Indian trading post.

I. Upon the savage it had worked a transformation. It found him without iron, hunting merely
for food and raiment. It put into his hands iron and guns, and made him a hunter for furs with
which to purchase the goods of civilization. Thus it tended to perpetuate the hunter stage;
but it must also be noted that for a time it seemed likely to develop a class of merchants
who should act as intermediaries solely. The inter-tribal trade between Montreal and the Northwest,
and between Albany and the Illinois and Ohio country, appears to have been commerce in the
proper sense of the term[246] (Kauf zum Verkauf). The trading post left the unarmed tribes
at the mercy of those that had bought firearms, and this caused a relocation of the Indian
tribes and an urgent demand for the trader by the remote and unvisited Indians. It made the
Indian dependent on the white man's supplies. The stage of civilization that could make a gun
and gunpowder was too far above the bow and arrow stage to be reached by the Indian. Instead
of elevating him the trade exploited him. But at the same time, when one nation did not monopolize
the trade, or when it failed to regulate its own traders, the trading post gave to the Indians
the means of resistance to agricultural settlement. The American settlers fought for their
farms in Kentucky and Tennessee at a serious disadvantage, because for over half a century
the Creeks and Cherokees had received arms and ammunition from the trading posts of the French,
the Spanish and the English. In Wisconsin the settlers came after the Indian had become thoroughly
dependent on the American traders, and so late that no resistance was made. The trading post
gradually exploited the Indian's hunting ground. By intermarriages with the French traders
the purity of the stock was destroyed and a mixed race produced.[247] The trader broke down
the old totemic divisions, and appointed chiefs regardless of the Indian social organization,
to foster his trade. Indians and traders alike testify that this destruction of Indian institutions
was responsible for much of the difficulty in treating with them, the tribe being without a
recognized head.[248] The sale of their lands, made less valuable by the extinction of game,
gave them a new medium of exchange, at the same time that, under the rivalry of trade, the
sale of whiskey increased.

II. Upon the white man the effect of the Indian trading post was also very considerable. The
Indian trade gave both English and French a footing in America. But for the Indian supplies
some of the most important settlements would have perished.[249] It invited to exploration:
the dream of a water route to India and of mines was always present in the more extensive expeditions,
but the effective practical inducement to opening the water systems of the interior, and the
thing that made exploration possible, was the fur trade. As has been shown, the Indian eagerly
invited the trader. Up to a certain point also the trade fostered the advance of settlements.
As long as they were in extension of trade with the Indians they were welcomed. The trading
posts were the pioneers of many settlements along the entire colonial frontier. In Wisconsin
the sites of our principal cities are the sites of old trading posts, and these earliest fur-trading
settlements furnished supplies to the farming, mining and lumbering pioneers. They were centers
about which settlement collected after the exploitation of the Indian. Although the efforts
of the Indians and of the great trading companies, whose profits depended upon keeping the
primitive wilderness, were to obstruct agricultural settlement, as the history of the Northwest
and of British America shows, nevertheless reports brought back by the individual trader guided
the steps of the agricultural pioneer. The trader was the farmer's pathfinder into some of
the richest regions of the continent. Both favorably and unfavorably the influence of the Indian
trade on settlement was very great.

The trading post was the strategic point in the rivalry of France and England for the Northwest.
The American colonists came to know that the land was worth more than the beaver that built
in the streams, but the mother country fought for the Northwest as the field of Indian trade
in all the wars from 1689 to 1812. The management of the Indian trade led the government under
the lead of Franklin and Washington into trading on its own account, a unique feature of its
policy. "the peace," said Morand, "broke away between great Britain and France; the forces of the two
nations were grappling; but it appeared to me to be easy to destroy our challenger by finance
than by arms. Ingenuous shall be allow to state, in his own bland, morand way, how, like a patriot,
he tried to achieve
doubtless what Bonaparte failed to do by military genius; and financially
in after period he meditate that if his own efforts brought him to
Sydney Cove, Cards'element landed him at St. Helena. The genesis of this expedition
illustrates at once the comprehensive western schemes of Jefferson, and the importance of the
part played by the fur trade in opening the West. In 1786, while the Annapolis convention was
discussing the navigation of the Potomac, Jefferson wrote to Washington from Paris inquiring
about the best place for a canal between the Ohio and the Great Lakes.[250] This was in promotion
of the project of Ledyard, a Connecticut man, who was then in Paris endeavoring to interest
the wealthiest house there in the fur trade of the Far West. Jefferson took so great an interest
in the plan that he secured from the house a promise that if they undertook the scheme the
depot of supply should be at Alexandria, on the Potomac river, which would be in connection
with the Ohio, if the canal schemes of the time were carried out. After the failure of the
negotiations of Ledyard, Jefferson proposed to him to cross Russia to Kamschatka, take ship
to Nootka Sound, and thence return to the United States by way of the Missouri.[251] Ledyard
was detained in Russia by the authorities in spite of Jefferson's good offices, and the scheme
fell through. But Jefferson himself asserts that this suggested the idea of the Lewis and Clarke
expedition, which he proposed to Congress as a means of fostering our Indian trade.[252] Bearing
in mind his instructions to this party, that they should see whether the Oregon furs might
not be shipped down the Missouri instead of passing around Cape Horn, and the relation of his
early canal schemes to this design, we see that he had conceived the project of a transcontinental
fur trade which should center in Virginia. Astor's subsequent attempt to push through a similar
plan resulted in the foundation of his short-lived post of Astoria at the mouth of the Columbia.
This occupation greatly aided our claim to the Oregon country as against the British traders,
who had reached the region by way of the northern arm of the Columbia.

In Wisconsin, at least, the traders' posts, placed at the carrying places around falls and
rapids, pointed out the water powers of the State. The portages between rivers became canals,
or called out canal schemes that influenced the early development of the State. First t (now manufacture
he led on the government).

"He proposed clarke'Washington there?" V. (probably for canadian).

I can'continent. Is it had stand?

Third V. "nay, and as it: time and it unfold yourself."

Fourth
V. I wish it unfold to TREE.

Third V. "you come most
was carefully upon hour."

Fourth V. why for earth which can'scrambling trading should be own
british?

First
Second. "'the probably hit twelve." Fourth relief. about people have
struck my head.

Lewis
V. "for people had the thanks." An old Indian trader relates that "the path between Green Bay
and Milwaukee was originally an Indian trail, and very crooked, but the whites would straighten
it by cutting across lots each winter with their jumpers, wearing bare streaks through the
thin covering, to be followed in the summer by foot and horseback travel along the shortened
path."[256] The process was typical of a greater one. Along the lines that nature had drawn
the Indians traded and warred; along their trails and in their birch canoes the trader passed,
bringing a new and a transforming life. Which could the matter mean? No answer was given to the questionings.
A man's was figure, vast and terrible, appeared on the hill's, been with a look had inspected of
triumph on his wicked face. It was THOMAS TATTERS. BONDUCA huddle; the noble dames fled shrieking down
the valley.

In a speech upon the Pacific Railway delivered in the United States Senate in 1850, Senator
Benton used these words: "There is an idea become current of late ... that none but a man of
science, bred in a school, can lay off a road. That is a mistake. There is a class of topographical
engineers older than the schools, and more unerring than the mathematics. It all resolves itself
into the same thing--into the same buffalo-road; and thence the buffalo becomes the first and
safest engineer. Thus it has been here in the countries which we inhabit and the history of
which is so familiar. The present national road from Cumberland over the Alleghanies was the
military road of General Braddock; which had been the buffalo-path of the wild animals. So
of the two roads from western Virginia to Kentucky--one through the gap in the Cumberland mountains,
the other down the valley of the Kenhawa. They were both the war-path of the Indians and the
travelling route of the buffalo, and their first white acquaintances the early hunters. Buffaloes
made them in going from the salt springs on the Holston to the rich pastures and salt springs
of Kentucky; Indians followed them first, white hunters afterwards--and that is the way Kentucky
was discovered. In more than a hundred years no nearer or better routes have been found; and
science now makes her improved roads exactly where the buffalo's foot first marked the way
and the hunter's foot afterwards followed him. So all over Kentucky and the West; and so in
the Rocky Mountains. The famous South Pass was no scientific discovery. Some people think Frémont
discovered it. It had been discovered forty years before--long before he was born. He only
described it and confirmed what the hunters and traders had reported and what they showed him.
It was discovered, or rather first seen by white people, in 1808, two years after the return
of Lewis and Clark, and by the first company of hunters and traders that went out after their
report laid open the prospect of the fur trade in the Rocky Mountains.

