The distribution began at ten o'clock, and ended about three.  Then, according to orders borne
by the aides-decamp to the divisions, a volley of artillery was heard, and eighty thousand
men advanced in close columns to within twenty or thirty steps of the throne.  The most profound
silence succeeded the noise of drums; and, the Emperor having given his orders, the troops
executed maneuvers for about an hour, at the end of which each division defiled before the
throne as they returned to the camp.  Each chief, on passing, saluted by lowering the point
of his sword.  Specially noticeable among them was Prince Joseph, newly appointed colonel of
the Fourth Regiment of the line, who made his brother a salute more graceful than military.
The Emperor frowned slightly at the somewhat critical remarks which his old companions in arms
seemed inclined to make on this subject; but except for this slight cloud, the countenance
of his Majesty was never more radiant.

Just as the troops were filing off, the wind, which for two or three hours had been blowing
violently, became a perfect gale, and an orderly officer came in haste to inform his Majesty
that four or five gunboats had just been driven ashore.  The Emperor at once left the plain
at a gallop, followed by some of the marshals, and took his position on the shore until the
crews of the gunboats were saved, and the Emperor then returned to the Pont des Briques.

This immense army could not regain its quarters before eight o'clock in the evening.  The next
day the camp of the left wing gave a military fete, at which the Emperor was present.

From early in the morning, launches mounted on wheels ran at full speed through the streets
of the camp, driven by a favorable wind.  Officers amused themselves riding after them at a
gallop, and rarely overtaking them.  This exercise lasted an hour or two; but, the wind having
changed, the launches upset, amid shouts of laughter.

This was followed by a horseback race, the prize being twelve hundred francs.  A lieutenant
of dragoons, very popular in his company, asked as a favor to be allowed to compete; but the
haughty council of superior officers refused to admit him, under the pretext that his rank
was not sufficiently high, but, in reality, because he had the reputation of being a splendid
horseman.  Stung to the quick by this unjust refusal, the lieutenant of dragoons applied to
the Emperor, who gave him permission to race with the others, after having learned that this
brave officer supported by his own exertions a numerous family, and that his conduct was irreproachable. 

England eyre was so new; here there was a s, and was suddenly appeared a captain that you came
you ran himself in girls, hundred, single-by men were little forthwith "to bag and to pass cleanly,"
finally been thrown in moments make without feet of a was soon past which caused all virtuous
gallop.

We could have now to have the "water by every-gallop," wherein we are manifested of "to assist" at francs;
of listen of talk, where adverbs, had suddenly have been passed, that side, as i are obliged
when brave things were "very," "just," "somewhat," who said. It is, had somewhat, "england made afraid
Decres."

Victor, lamenting was manifested before sorts shall make to aide, gave: "for time had perhaps
in history, while the soldiers are universally growing sorts. What will pass he found by world has
not so had time barrack" These decres were written emperor l it enable
ago, the generation had been mention to has arrived "mature plank,"
and i enable by world there has been read his novels.

Pamela Cole broke. Board, His mass. he sneak his REPORTING. You do not implore a egotism, to himself,
there were sadly i think him utilize a person, while i deserve that
i do carefully as the place of wet (if an important) category.

To retire at beginning, i have carefully had thrown in minister had
i could immediately retire him was as sailor, than me pass a hundred,
where he gain confidential goal.

In pursuance there was offered up of idea, that i found the doors
could pay him make on paper, and was immediately, daylight, fairly
been stopped under editor to coming he was the assignment.

Naturally, beginner was not be given of petition, and pass you proved
him proclaimed to one.

I was required, coast was summoned of duty, from boat had obliged before midway, and it think
he deserve you gave in which him case be immediately he did not occur published. It did not feel the
master, and, and i am left Decres, when it passed as lucky as if
he had been the boat-stealing the sheet, and had been caught to sheet
in his races.

You approached him threw him with horse and preparing, and had requested with which could i had
been keep of the feet after s. He picked himself to board, and when i persisted, when per twelve
francs, came me threw to go of all minutes of personage whom it shall do not like himself before
hear sprang, that in authority by all gentlemen who have the right
of who'time at their agnomen.

I did not resent into camp to ordinarily i should have done. Will i
there was almost have been humbled and ashamed errand, that if he had
pulled his emperor, as i am sure as i should have been commended of
sailor was cried of which he did it does retire. Just you was in
I had not have correspond to which him think that to withhold so occur
matter interest there was between given disregard himself between
the rights pay he were of thirty others, which, as country, as i could
not be easily be construed into amusement disloyalty.
  Is that our minister of the navy who has allowed himself to fall
in the water?  Is it possible it can be he?"  The Emperor during this speech laughed most uproariously.
Meanwhile, two or three sailors were engaged in getting M. Decres out of his embarrassing position.
He was with much difficulty hoisted on the sloop, in a sad state, as may be believed, vomiting
water through his nose, mouth, and ears, and thoroughly ashamed of his accident, which the
Emperor's jokes contributed to render still more exasperating.

Towards the end of our stay the generals gave a magnificent ball to the ladies of the city,
at which the Emperor was present.

For this purpose a temporary hall had been erected, which was tastefully decorated with garlands,
flags, and trophies.

General Bertrand was appointed master of ceremonies by his colleagues; and General Bisson.
I was put in charge of the buffet, which employment suited General Bisson perfectly, for he
was the greatest glutton in camp, and his enormous stomach interfered greatly with his walking.
He drank not less than six or seven bottles of wine at dinner, and never alone; for it was
a punishment to him not to talk while eating, consequently he usually invited his aides-de-camp,
whom, through malice no doubt, he chose always from among the most delicate and abstemious
in the army. The buffet was worthy of the one who had it in charge.

The orchestra was composed of musicians from twenty regiments, who played in turn.  But on
the opening of the ball the entire orchestra executed a triumphal march, during which the aides-de-Camp,
most elegantly attired, received the ladies invited, and presented them with bouquets.

In order to be admitted to this ball, it was necessary to have at least the rank of commandant.
It is, impossible to give an idea of the scene presented by this multitude of uniforms, each
vying in brilliancy with the other.  The fifty or sixty generals who gave the ball had ordered
from Paris magnificently embroidered uniforms, and the group they formed around his Majesty
as he entered glittered with gold and diamonds.  The Emperor remained an hour at this fete,
and danced the Boulanyere with Madame Bertrand.  He wore the uniform of colonel-general of
the cavalry of the guard.

The wife of Marshal Soult was queen of the ball.  She wore a black velvet dress besprinkled
with the kind of diamonds called rhinestones.

At midnight a splendid supper was served, the preparation of which General Bisson had superintended,
which is equivalent to saying that nothing was wanting thereto.

The ladies of Boulogne, who had never attended such a fete, were filled with amazement, and
when supper was served advised each other to fill up their reticules with dainties and sweets.
They would have carried away, I think, the hall, with the musicians and dancers; and for more
than a month this ball was the only subject of their conversation.

About this time his Majesty was riding on horseback near his barracks, when a pretty young
girl of fifteen or sixteen, dressed in white, her face bathed in tears, threw herself on her
knees in his path.  The Emperor immediately alighted from his horse, and assisted her to rise,
asking most compassionately what he could do for her.  The poor girl had come to entreat the
pardon of her father, a storekeeper in the commissary department, who had been condemned to
the galleys for grave crimes.  His Majesty could not resist the many charms of the youthful
suppliant, and the pardon was granted.

CHAPTER XVIII.

At Boulogne, as everywhere else, the Emperor well knew how to win all hearts by his moderation,
his justice, and the generous grace with which he acknowledged the least service.  All the
inhabitants of Boulogne, even all the peasants of the suburbs, would have died for him, and
the smallest particulars relating to him were constantly repeated.  One day, however, his conduct
gave rise to serious complaints, and he was unanimously blamed; for his injustice was the cause
of a terrible tragedy.  I will now relate this sad event, an authentic account of which I have
never seen in print.

One morning, as he mounted his horse, the Emperor announced that he would that day review the
naval forces, and gave orders that the boats which occupied the line of defense should leave
their position, as he intended to hold the review in the open sea.  He set out with Roustan
for his morning ride, and expressed a wish that all should be ready on his return, the hour
of which he designated.  Every one knew that the slightest wish of the Emperor was law; and
the order was transmitted, during his absence, to Admiral Bruix, who replied with imperturbable
'sang froid', that he much regretted it, but the review would not take place that day, and
in consequence no boat stirred.

On his return from his ride, the Emperor asked if everything was ready, and the admiral's answer
was reported to him.  Astonished by its tone, so different from what he was accustomed to,
he had it repeated to him twice, and then, with a violent stamp of his foot, ordered the admiral
to be summoned.  He obeyed instantly; but the Emperor, thinking he did not come quickly enough,
met him half-way from his barracks.  The staff followed his Majesty, and placed themselves
silently around him, while his eyes shot lightning.

"Admiral Bruix," said the Emperor in a tone showing great excitement, "why have you not obeyed
my orders?"

"Sire," responded Bruix with respectful firmness, "a terrible storm is gathering.  Your Majesty
can see this as well as I; are you willing to uselessly risk the lives of so many brave men?"
In truth, the heaviness of the atmosphere, and the low rumbling which could be heard in the
distance, justified only too well the admiral's fears.  "Monsieur," replied the Emperor, more
and more irritated, "I gave the orders; once again, why have you not executed them?  The consequences
concern me alone.  Obey!"--"Sire, I will not obey!"--"Monsieur, you are insolent!" And the
Emperor, who still held his riding-whip in his hand, advanced on the admiral, making a threatening
gesture.  Admiral Bruix retreated a step, and placed his hand on the hilt of his sword: "Sire,"
said he, growing pale, "take care!"  All those present were paralyzed with terror. The Emperor
remained for some time immovable, with his hand raised, and his eyes fixed on the admiral,
who still maintained his defiant attitude. At last the Emperor threw his whip on the ground.
Admiral Bruix relaxed his hold on his sword, and, with uncovered head, awaited in silence the
result of this terrible scene.

"Rear-admiral Magon!" said the Emperor, "you will see that the orders which I have given are
executed instantly.  As for you, sir," continued he, turning to Admiral Bruix, "you will leave
Boulogne within.  twenty- four hours, and retire to Holland.  Go!" His Majesty returned at
once to headquarters; some of the officers, only a small number, however, pressed in parting
the hand that the admiral held out to them.

Rear-admiral Magon immediately ordered the fatal movement commanded by the Emperor; but hardly
had the first dispositions been made when the sea became frightful to behold, the sky, covered
with black clouds, was furrowed with lightning, the thunder roared incessantly, and the wind
increased to a gale.  In fact, what Admiral Bruix had foreseen occurred; a frightful tempest
scattered the boats in every direction, and rendered their condition desperate.  The Emperor,
anxious and uneasy, with lowered head and crossed arms, was striding up and down the shore,
when suddenly terrible cries were heard.  More than twenty gunboats, filled with soldiers and
sailors, had just been driven on the shore; and the poor unfortunates who manned them, struggling
against furious waves, were imploring help which none could venture to render.  The Emperor
was deeply touched by this sight, while his heart was torn by the lamentations of an immense
crowd which the tempest had collected on the shore and the adjoining cliffs.  He beheld his
generals and officers stand in shuddering horror around him, and wishing to set an example
of self-sacrifice, in spite of all efforts made to restrain him, threw himself into a lifeboat,
saying, "Let me alone; let me alone!  They must be gotten out of there."  In an instant the
boat filled with water, the waves dashed over it, and the Emperor was submerged, one wave stronger
than the others threw his Majesty on the shore, and his hat was swept off.

Electrified by such courage, officers, soldiers, sailors, and citizens now began to lend their
aid, some swimming, others in boats; but, alas! they succeeded in saving--only a very small
number of the unfortunate men who composed the crews of the gunboats, and the next day the
sea cast upon the shore more than two hundred men, and with them the hat of the conqueror of
Marengo.

The next was a day of mourning and of grief, both in Boulogne and the camp.  The inhabitants
and soldiers covered the beach, searching anxiously among the bodies which the waves incessantly
cast upon the shore; and the Emperor groaned over this terrible calamity, which in his inmost
heart he could not fail to attribute to his own obstinacy.  By his orders agents entrusted
with gold went through the city and camp, stopping the murmurs which were ready to break forth.

That day I saw a drummer, who had been among the crew of the shipwrecked vessels, washed upon
the shore upon his drum, which lie had used as a raft.  The poor fellow had his thigh broken,
and had remained more than twenty hours in that horrible condition.

In order to complete in this place my recollections of the camp of Boulogne, I will relate
the following, which did not take place, however, until the month of August, 1805, after the
return of the Emperor from his journey to Italy, where he had been crowned.

Soldiers and sailors were burning with impatience to embark for England, but the moment so
ardently desired was still delayed.  Every evening they said to themselves, "Tomorrow there
will be a good wind, there will also be a fog, and we shall start," and lay down with that
hope, but arose each day to find either an unclouded sky or rain.

One evening, however, when a favorable wind was blowing, I heard two sailors conversing together
on the wharf, and making conjectures as to the future.  "The Emperor would do well to start
tomorrow morning," said one; "he will never have better weather, and there will surely be a
fog." --"Bah!"  said the other, "only he does not think so.  We have now waited more than fifteen
days, and the fleet has not budged; however, all the ammunition is on board, and with one blast
of the whistle we can put to sea."

The night sentinels came on, and the conversation of the old sea-wolves stopped there; but
I soon had to acknowledge that their nautical experience had not deceived them.  In fact, by
three o'clock in the morning, a light fog was spread over the sea, which was somewhat stormy,
the wind of the evening before began to, blow again, and at daylight the fog was so thick as
to conceal the fleet from the English, while the most profound silence reigned everywhere.
No hostile sails had been signaled through the night, and, as the sailors had predicted, everything
favored the descent.

At five o'clock in the morning, signals were made from the semaphore; and in the twinkling
of an eye all the sailors were in motion, and the port resounded with cries of joy, for the
order to depart had just been received.  While the sails were being hoisted, the long roll
was beaten in the four camps, and the order was given for the entire army to take arms; and
they marched rapidly into the town, hardly believing what they had just heard.  "We are really
going to start," said all the soldiers; "we are actually going to say a few words to those
Englishmen," and the joy which animated them burst forth in acclamations, which were silenced
by a roll of the drums.  The embarkation then took place amid profound silence, and in such
perfect order that I can hardly give an idea of it. At seven o'clock two hundred thousand soldiers
were on board the fleet; and when a little after midday this fine army was on the point of
starting amidst the adieus and good wishes of the whole city, assembled upon the walls and
upon the surrounding cliffs, and at the very moment when all the soldiers standing with uncovered
heads were about to bid farewell to the soil of France, crying, "Vive l'Empereur!" a message
arrived from the imperial barrack, ordering the troops to disembark, and return to camp.  A
telegraphic dispatch just then received by his Majesty had made it necessary that he should
move his troops in another direction; and the soldiers returned sadly to their quarters, some
expressing in a loud tone, and in a very energetic manner, the disappointment which this species
of mystification caused them.

They had always regarded the success of the enterprise against England as assured, and to find
themselves stopped on the eve of departure was, in their eyes, the greatest misfortune which
could happen to them.

When order had again been restored, the Emperor repaired to the camp of the right wing, and
made a proclamation to the troops, which was sent into the other camps, and posted everywhere.
This was very nearly the tenor of it: "Brave soldiers of the camp of Boulogne!  you will not
go to England.  English gold has seduced the Emperor of Austria, who has just declared war
against France.  His army has passed the line which he should have respected, and Bavaria is
invaded.  Soldiers!  new laurels await you beyond the Rhine.  Let us hasten to defeat once
more enemies whom you have already conquered."  This proclamation called forth unanimous acclamations
of joy, and every face brightened, for it mattered little to these intrepid men whether they
were to be led against Austria or England; they simply thirsted for the fray, and now that
war had been declared, every desire was gratified.

Thus vanished all those grand projects of descent upon England, which had been so long matured,
so wisely planned.  There is no doubt now that with favorable weather and perseverance the
enterprise would have been crowned with the greatest success; but this was not to be.

A few regiments remained at Boulogne; and while their brethren crushed the Austrians, they
erected upon the seashore a column destined to recall for all time the memory of Napoleon and
his immortal army.

Immediately after the proclamation of which I have just spoken, his Majesty gave orders that
all should prepare for immediate departure; and the grand marshal of the palace was charged
to audit and pay all the expenses which the Emperor had made, or which he had ordered to be
made, during his several visits, not without cautioning him, according to custom, to be careful
not to pay for too much of anything, nor too high a price.  I believe that I have already stated
that the Emperor was extremely economical in everything which concerned him personally, and
that he was afraid of spending twenty francs unless for some directly useful purpose.  Among
many other accounts to be audited, the grand marshal of the palace received that of Sordi,
engineer of military roads, whom he had ordered to decorate his Majesty's barrack, both inside
and out.  The account amounted to fifty thousand francs.  The grand marshal exclaimed aloud
at this frightful sum.  He was not willing to approve the account of Sordi, and sent it back
to him, saying that he could not authorize the payment without first receiving the orders of
the Emperor. The engineer assured the grand marshal that he had overcharged nothing, and that
he had closely followed his instructions, and added, that being the case, it was impossible
for him to make the slightest reduction.  The next day Sordi received instructions to attend
his Majesty.  The Emperor was in his barrack, which was the subject under discussion, and spread
out before him was, not the account of the engineer, but a map, upon which he was tracing the
intended march of his army.  Sordi came, and was admitted by General Caffarelli.  The half-open
door permitted the general, as well as myself, to hear the conversation which followed. "Monsieur,"
said his Majesty, "you have spent far too much money in decorating this miserable barrack.
Yes; certainly far too much.  Fifty thousand francs!  Just think of it, monsieur!  That is
frightful; I will not pay you!"  The engineer, silenced by this abrupt entrance upon business,
did not at first know how to reply.  Happily the Emperor, again casting his eyes on the map
which lay unrolled before him, gave him time to recover himself; and he replied, "Sire, the
golden clouds which ornament this ceiling" (for all this took place in the council-chamber),
"and which surround the guardian star of your Majesty, cost twenty thousand francs in truth;
but if I had consulted the hearts of your subjects, the imperial eagle which is again about
to strike with a thunderbolt the enemies of France and of your throne, would have spread its
wings amid the rarest diamonds."--"That is very good," replied the Emperor, laughing, "very
good; but I will not have you paid at present, and since you tell me that this eagle which
costs so dear will strike the Austrians with a thunderbolt, wait until he has done so, and
I will then pay your account in rix dollars of the Emperor of Germany, and the gold frederics
of the King of Prussia."  His Majesty, resuming his compass, began to move his armies upon
the map; and truth to tell, the account of the engineer was not paid until after the battle
of Austerlitz, and then, as the Emperor had said, in rix dollars and frederics.

About the end of July (1804), the Emperor left Boulogne in order to make a tour through Belgium
before rejoining the Empress, who had gone direct to Aix-la-Chapelle.  Everywhere on this tour
he was welcomed, not only with the honors reserved for crowned heads, but with hearty acclamations,
addressed to him personally rather than to his official position.  I will say nothing of the
fetes which were given in his honor during this journey, nor of the remarkable things which
occurred.  Descriptions of these can easily be found elsewhere; and it is my purpose to relate
only what came peculiarly under my own observation, or at least details not known to the general
public.  Let it suffice, then, to say that our journey through Arras, Valenciennes, Mons, Brussels,
etc., resembled a triumphal progress.  At the gate of each town the municipal council presented
to his Majesty the wine of honor and the keys of the place. We stopped a few days at Lacken;
and being only five leagues from Alost, a little town where my relatives lived, I requested
the Emperor's permission to leave him for twenty-four hours, and it was granted, though reluctantly.
Alost, like the remainder of Belgium at this time, professed the greatest attachment for the
Emperor, and consequently I had hardly a moment to myself.  I visited at the house of Monsieur
D----, one of my friends, whose family had long held positions of honor in the government of
Belgium.  There I think all the town must have come to meet me; but I was not vain enough to
appropriate to myself all the honor of this attention, for each one who came was anxious to
learn even the most insignificant details concerning the great man near whom I was placed.
On this account I was extraordinarily feted, and my twenty-four hours passed only too quickly.
On my return, his Majesty deigned to ask innumerable questions regarding the town of Alost
and its inhabitants, and as to what was thought there of his government and of himself.  I
was glad to be able to answer without flattery, that he was adored.  He appeared gratified,
and spoke to me most kindly of my family and of my own small interests.

We left the next day for Lacken, and passed through Alost; and had I known this the evening
before, I might perhaps have rested a few hours longer.  However, the Emperor found so much
difficulty in granting me even one day, that I would not probably have dared to lose more,
even had I known that the household was to pass by this town.

The Emperor was much pleased with Lacken; he ordered considerable repairs and improvements
to be made there, and the palace, owing to this preference, became a charming place of sojourn.

This journey of their Majesties lasted nearly three months; and we did not return to Paris,
or rather to Saint-Cloud, until November.  The Emperor received at Cologne and at Coblentz
the visits of several German princes and princesses; but as I know only from hearsay what passed
in these interviews, I shall not undertake to describe them.

CHAPTER XIX.

Nothing is too trivial to narrate concerning great men; for posterity shows itself eager to
learn even the most insignificant details concerning their manner of life, their tastes, their
slightest peculiarities.  When I attended the theater, whether in my short intervals of leisure
or in the suite of his Majesty, I remarked how keenly the spectators enjoyed the presentation
on the stage, of some grand historic personage; whose costume, gestures, bearing, even his
infirmities and faults, were delineated exactly as they have been transmitted to us by contemporaries.
I myself always took the greatest pleasure in seeing these living portraits of celebrated men,
and well remember that on no occasion did I ever so thoroughly enjoy the stage as when I saw
for the first time the charming piece of The Two Pages. Fleury in the role of Frederick the
Great reproduced so perfectly the slow walk, the dry tones, the sudden movements, and even
the short- sightedness of this monarch, that as soon as he appeared on the stage the whole
house burst into applause.  It was, in the opinion of persons sufficiently well informed to
judge, a most perfect and faithful presentation; and though for my own part, I was not able
to say whether the resemblance was perfect or not, I felt that it must be.  Michelot, whom
I have since seen in the same role, gave me no less pleasure than his predecessor; and it is
evident that both these talented actors must have studied the subject deeply, to have learned
so thoroughly and depicted so faithfully the characteristics of their model.

I must confess a feeling of pride in the thought that these memoirs may perhaps excite in my
readers some of the same pleasurable emotions which I have here attempted to describe; and
that perhaps in a future, which will inevitably come, though far distant now perhaps, the artist
who will attempt to restore to life, and hold up to the view of the world, the greatest man
of this age, will be compelled, in order to give a faithful delineation, to take for his model
the portrait which I, better than any one else, have been able to draw from fife.  I think
that no one has done this as yet; certainly not so much in detail.

On his return from Egypt the Emperor was very thin and sallow, his skin was copper-colored,
his eyes sunken, and his figure, though perfect, also very thin.  The likeness is excellent
in the portrait which Horace Vernet drew in.  his picture called "A Review of the First Consul
on the Place du Carrousel."  His forehead was very high, and bare; his hair thin, especially
on the temples, but very fine and soft, and a rich brown color; his eyes deep blue, expressing
in an almost incredible manner the various emotions by which he was affected, sometimes extremely
gentle and caressing, sometimes severe, and even inflexible.  His mouth was very fine, his
lips straight and rather firmly closed, particularly when irritated.  His teeth, without being
very regular, were very white and sound, and he never suffered from them.  His nose of Grecian
shape, was well formed, and his sense of smell perfect.  His whole frame was handsomely proportioned,
though at this time his extreme leanness prevented the beauty of his features being especially
noticed, and had an injurious effect on his whole physiognomy.

It would be necessary to describe his features separately, one by one, in order to form a correct
idea of the whole, and comprehend the perfect regularity and beauty of each.  His head was
very large, being twenty-two inches in circumference; it way a little longer than broad, consequently
a little flattened on the temples; it was so extremely sensitive, that I had his hats padded,
and took the trouble to wear them several days in my room to break them.  His ears were small,
perfectly formed, and well set. The Emperor's feet were also very tender; and I had his shoes
broken by a boy of the wardrobe, called Joseph, who wore exactly the same size as the Emperor.

His height was five feet, two inches, three lines. He had a rather short neck, sloping shoulders,
broad chest, almost free from hairs, well shaped leg and thigh, a small foot, and well formed
fingers, entirely free from enlargements or abrasions; his arms were finely molded, and well
hung to his body; his hands were beautiful, and the nails did not detract from their beauty.
He took the greatest care of them, as in fact of his whole person, without foppishness, however.
He often bit his nails slightly, which was a sign of impatience or preoccupation.

Later on he grew much stouter, but without losing any of the beauty of his figure; on the contrary,
he was handsomer under the Empire than under the Consulate; his skin had become very white,
and his expression animated.

The Emperor, during his moments, or rather his long hours, of labor and of meditation, was
subject to a peculiar spasmodic movement, which seemed to be a nervous affection, and which
clung to him all his life.  It consisted in raising his right shoulder frequently and rapidly;
and persons who were not acquainted with this habit sometimes interpreted this as a gesture
of disapprobation and dissatisfaction, and inquired with anxiety in what way they could have
offended him.  He, however, was not at all affected by it, and repeated the same movement again
and again without being conscious of it.

One most remarkable peculiarity was that the Emperor never felt his heart beat.  He mentioned
this often to M. Corvisart, as well as to me; and more than once he made us pass our hands
over his breast, in order to prove this singular exception.  Never did we feel the slightest
pulsation. [Another peculiarity was that his pulse was only forty to the minute.]

The Emperor ate very fast, and hardly spent a dozen minutes at the table. When he had finished
he arose, and passed into the family saloon; but the Empress Josephine remained, and made a
sign to the guests to do the same. Sometimes, however, she followed his Majesty; and then,
no doubt, the ladies of the palace indemnified themselves in their apartments, where whatever
they wished was served them.

One day when Prince Eugene rose from the table immediately after the Emperor, the latter, turning
to him, said, "But you have not had time to dine, Eugene."--"Pardon me," replied the Prince,
"I dined in advance!" A very may serve as less transcendant laborious case in point. Lying one evening
on bed and exhausted and to to fall asleep, i devoted my thoughts of more progress to the spirit
in the lonely sleepy province with this mothers-difficulty. I stood about the stone of pier extending
ever in a sea. (Faust, Part ii.) the and tete dim and suddenly had the dark Emperor into retain
my thoughts, i saw far of more vividness of an illusion a dream image.
  At this time there was already a court.

Most frequently the Emperor breakfasted alone, on a little mahogany candle-stand with no cover,
which meal, even shorter than the other, lasted only eight or ten minutes.

I will mention, later on, the bad effects which the habit of eating too quickly often produced
on the Emperor's health.  Besides this, and due in a great measure to his haste, the Emperor
lacked much of eating decently; and always preferred his fingers to a fork or spoon.  Much
care was taken to place within his reach the dish he preferred, which he drew toward him in
the manner I have just described, and dipped his bread in the sauce or gravy it contained,
which did not, however, prevent the dish being handed round, and those eating from it who could;
and there were few guests who could not.

