"Let us use an illustration to show what is meant by that saying. For instance, supposing we
had been taught from childhood that two times two are five, and every person on earth believed
this to be right, we would all go through life making this mistake. There would be constant
trouble all over the mathematical world because of it, and when we tried to rectify this trouble
we would use this same mistake in trying to arrive at a true answer. At times we would deceive
ourselves and believe we were right, only to find later on that we were in deeper trouble.
And when we had children of our own, we would still teach them the same as we were taught that
two times two are five, and the longer the world stood, the greater would become this mistake,
as no one knew the truth that two times two were only four; yet all this time the principle
of mathematics existed and was correct, but man knew it not. Now father, imagine how great
and widespread this mistake would become in several thousands of years, and how hard it would
be to convince the people of their mistake, especially the professor of mathematics who had
devoted a lifetime to proving that this mistake was the truth. You can readily see it would
be much easier for the child who had never learned or believed in the mistake to grasp this
truth than the professor who believed that the mistake was correct. Supposing that while these
conditions existed some one should discover the truth, that two times two are four, and would
bring it before the world; would not the learned professor ridicule the idea and say two times
two have been five since the beginning of the world, and for any one to say different is nonsense?
Could you induce him to investigate? No; why? Because he thinks he knows all about it, and
that it would be a waste of time to investigate what he supposes is nonsense. So it is with
man. For thousands of years he has been taught that he has a material body and that this body
is intelligent, and knows when it has a toe that aches or a stomach that is out of order, or
an arm that it can not move, etc., throughout all the ills that flesh is heir to. And when
man gets in trouble through this mistaken teaching, we try to correct the trouble by making
the same mistake again; for it was through the belief that man has a material body and that
matter is intelligent that all this trouble came about, and now we try to correct the trouble
by using more matter in the guise of medicine.

"If we had insisted on the professor of mathematics who was using the mistake of two times
two are five in his work, to give us a correct answer every time, he would be compelled to
say that it was an impossibility. If you were to ask why, he would say, because the principle
of mathematics isn't correct; he could not say otherwise, as he did not know that the mistake
had been made in teaching him that two times two are five. So it is with man, when he gets
so deeply in trouble that he cannot see any way out he lays his trouble to God and blames his
perfect Principle, when the truth is that the mistake is not with the Principle, but with his
own false belief, brought about by his being taught a mistake."

Walter stopped and looked at his father, but he said nothing, so he continued, "And when man
goes to the professor of Christianity, the minister, and asks why all this trouble and sickness
has come upon him, the answer is the same as the professor of mathematics made, by saying it
must be the will of God--thereby intimating that God was the author of his troubles; in other
words, that the Principle of man must be wrong. Instead of showing him that God, who is all
good, could not make evil, and consequently, he must be suffering through a false belief brought
about by being taught a mistake. Now let us suppose that some one should discover that man
was spiritual and had a spiritual body, that the entire universe was spiritual and matter did
not exist only as a false belief; that God made everything good, consequently there could be
no evil, and that evil existed only in belief. If the one who discovered this truth should
try to convince the professor of Christianity, the minister, that God made only the good and
the evil did not exist, the professor would say, thou blasphemest, God made everything--if
he should advance the thought that man was wholly spiritual, the professor would ridicule him,
and say you must be mistaken, my body is material. I can feel it, and every man's body has
been so since the beginning of the world. If the discoverer insisted that everything was spiritual
in reality, these learned professors would say the discoverer was insane, and then try to pass
laws prohibiting the teaching of this truth. In olden times they did somewhat differently;
the learned professors of that day crucified the demonstrator of this truth. It was Jesus Christ,
and His students were called His disciples; later when they went forth to preach the Gospel,
'good spell,' (or truth), and heal the sick, they were called apostles. The rediscoverer of
this Truth at the present time is Mary Baker G. Eddy, and her students are called Christian
Scientists; and later, when they go forth to preach the Gospel or Truth, and heal the sick,
they are called Christian Science Practitioners, and he who condemns her teachings condemns
the Truth, the same as the scribes and pharisees condemned the teachings of Jesus Christ; and
it is the understanding of this Truth that sets us free, as Jesus Christ said it would."

For several minutes the pastor did nothing but lean back in his chair and stare at his son;
then he said, "Walter do you mean to tell me that you received all this information pertaining
to the Bible from a Christian Scientist?" Jesus Christ said, 'These signs shall follow them
that believe, they shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover,' etc. Christian Science
practitioners are doing this, and the signs spoken of by Jesus Christ follow their work. As
yet I have only learned a few of the simplest things pertaining to this science, but this little
helped me much."

"But, Walter, how do we know that it is not the work of the evil one? or a trick of the devil
to lead you astray? I am very much afraid that you did wrong in not asking me about this teaching
before you filled your mind so full of it."

"Father, you surely must agree that the things I have explained to you regarding the Bible
are true, or at least nearer right than the way you were taught; and if you will only study
'Science and Health' you will soon agree with me."

"Walter, I have had enough of this; you have heard me express my views regarding this heretical
idea; now I must insist that you stop reading such nonsense at once, I will admit that some
of your statements seemed very plausible, but there is no proof that they are true."

"Father, I must speak more on this subject even though you accuse me of disobedience. I have
ample proof that Christian Science is true, and that the signs do follow their teachings. One
proof is that it was through the understanding I gained by the study of 'Science and Health'
that I am well to-day."

"Oh, pshaw, the idea that reading a book could have healed you of consumption! I credited you
with more intelligence than that."

"It was not the reading of the book that healed me, it was the understanding of the truth this
book contains that showed me the way out of my troubles; for if I had not found and studied
this book I would probably not be with you now."

"Did you say you found this book?"

"Yes, Thanksgiving day, between the church and our home. At first I was afraid to read it,
and probably would not have read it if it had not been for an incident that happened on our
last trip to the South."

"What incident was that? I don't believe I heard anything about it."

"One day as mother and I were walking along the street, a lady approached us, and among other
things made the remark that she read 'Science and Health' every day, and the reading of the
book had healed her of some severe disease. This lady did not look like a bad person, so I
thought if the book had healed her, it might me, and the truth it contains has done so."

"You have certainly gained a great deal in health since Thanksgiving day, but may not this
be the work of the devil to lead you astray?"

"Father do you think it a good thing that I am well?"

"What a question, why certainly I do."

"Did you ever hear of the devil doing a good thing?"

The pastor looked surprised, but answered, "No."

"Then why do you say that maybe my getting well is the work of the devil?" The pastor could
not find a ready answer, after a moment he said, "As I said before, I don't want anything to
do with Christian Science, be it good or bad, and it will please me if you will never mention
it to me again."

"Oh, father, I must speak of it to you for--"

"Silence! I will hear no more of it."

"But father, listen to--"

"Walter, I forbid you to speak to me on the subject again."

"Father, I must speak!"

"Do you dare disobey me?"

"Yes! for my mother's life depends upon my speaking. Let me speak this once on this subject,
and I will agree never to mention Christian Science to you again unless you wish it."

The pastor's anger had been rising, but when Walter said his mother's life depended on his
speaking, every particle of color left his face, and the anger vanished at once. He looked
at Walter and saw he was dreadfully in earnest, so he said, "Speak this once, I will hear you."

"Father it was through the reading of 'Science and Health' that I was healed of the dread disease
that is even now threatening the life of my mother; and as soon as I was convinced of the truth
of this teaching I called upon a practitioner, asking her for advice regarding my mother's
illness and asked her to give mother treatment. I did this without your consent, as I knew
how prejudiced you both were regarding this subject, but the practitioner kindly told me she
would not treat mother without her consent. And I knew mother would never consent to take treatment
if you were opposed to it, so I felt I must gain your consent first. The practitioner would
be pleased to come and talk with you on this subject at any time."

"No doubt of it, but I will have nothing to do with Christian Science."

"Oh, father, don't say that; you must be even more prejudiced than I thought."

"Yes, I am prejudiced, against all such nonsense."

"Father, will nothing change your views?" said Walter rather coldly.

"No, nothing."

"Then father, forever hereafter, I will ascribe the death of my mother to your unreasoning
prejudice against Christian Science, for the medical profession cannot cure her, but Christian
Science can." As Walter finished speaking, he arose from his chair and left the room; he immediately
proceeded to his own bed-chamber, as he felt he must be alone, for he was terribly hurt by
his father's prejudice against something which he admitted he had never investigated.

Walter had always supposed that his father was very broad-minded, but in this instance he thought
him very narrow, condemning something he knew nothing about, in fact could not be induced to
investigate or try, even though his dearly beloved wife's life might be saved by a trial.

It was at least a half hour before Walter could calm himself enough to think clearly. Then
like a flash he remembered one of the sayings of the practitioner when he had told her that
he thought he would have trouble in persuading his father to try Christian Science. She said,
"Truth has found you and Truth will lead you out of your trouble." He now bowed his head and
said, "Oh, God, I had forgotten that thou art an ever-present help in time of trouble."

He then secured his "Science and Health" and after reading for some time he stopped and said:
"Here is what I have been looking for." Then he slowly read, aloud, "God, Good, is not the
creator of evil." Continuing to soliloquize he said, "Of course not, God is Good, and Good
could not make evil. Then evil does not exist, for God made everything that was made. Is prejudice
an evil?"

"Certainly; then it does not exist in reality, but only seems to exist, because of the false
report of the material senses. Then my father cannot be prejudiced. This must be what the author
of 'Science and Health' called 'error,' and when the truth is declared pertaining to any error,
that error ceases to exist-for an error can only exist as long as we believe the error to be
the truth. When we discover the truth respecting a lie, the lie is gone, for truth has taken
its place; the truth is there all the time, but we cannot see the truth because we believe the lie.

"I see my error very plainly now. I believed my father was prejudiced, and this was an error;
in other words I believed a lie to be the truth. The real truth is that God never made prejudice
and it does not exist, so my father could not express it, but it only seemed so to me, just
as my sickness seemed real to me until I discovered that God never made it, but I had to prove
it to myself before I could believe, or understand it, and as rapidly as I understood the truth
regarding the error of sickness, just in the same proportion did the sickness disappear and
the truth or health appear. Health was there all the time, but I thought I was sick, and my
believing what I thought made the unreal seem real to me. I see now what that practitioner
meant when she said my work was before me. I have another demonstration to make, at least that
is what I saw it called in that Christian Science Journal. It means that I must demonstrate
the truth regarding the existence of prejudice. It is easy enough for me to say it does not
exist or to believe God never made it, and this would be a step in the right direction; but
to annul this error entirely, I must be able to prove to myself, its nonexistence; that means
I must fully understand the nothingness of evil under the guise of prejudice, and realize the
ever-presence of Good, for if God (Good) is ever present, prejudice, or evil, is never present;
now I must get to work.

"I made my first demonstration with the help of the Bible and 'Science and Health,' and with
their help I will make this one."

It was nearly midnight before he stopped his work. He was not afraid of his mother calling
in to see him, as she had been unable to leave her bed for several days, his father had been
compelled to hire a servant to do the housework, and she was coming in the morning.

The Rev. Williams did not retire until long after midnight; he also had the same evil to fight,
for he had admitted that he was prejudiced and so his prejudice seemed real to him. When Walter
had first quitted the room, the pastor thought of calling him back and giving him a severe
reprimand; but as he thought of all the misery the boy had been through in these many years
of sickness, he decided not to do it. He then began to think of all that Walter had said throughout
the Bible lessons and his thoughts were as follows "I cannot help admitting that a great many
things he said seemed nonsense at first, but after a careful research of the Bible I found
them fully substantiated and to be the real meaning; besides some of his explanations are very
plain and prove his assertions. Was there really something to Christian Science? Of course
not; if there had been, all these learned men who had investigated it would not have denounced
it. But maybe they were like me, so prejudiced that they denounced it without investigating.
I even preached a sermon opposing it, simply because some one else said it was heretical, and
as like as not this person never investigated it any more than I did, but denounced it because
some one spoke ill of it to him. Now that I think of it, it was not a very Christian-like act
to preach a sermon condemning something I have never looked into. Maybe that is what is the
matter with us all; it is the same as sentencing a man without a hearing. I believe I will
investigate this thing a little. I'll go over and have a talk with Parson Jones; he is considered
a very well educated and broad-minded man; perhaps Walter was right when he accused me of being
unreasonable; it certainly cannot do any harm to investigate. If there is nothing in it, I
can tell the boy so, and if there is, it would be wrong not to try it for my wife's illness.
Let me see, what did Walter say about its not being the work of the devil? He said the devil,
or evil, could not or would not do good. This seems reasonable, and it surely would be doing
good to heal any one of sickness. The Bible says Jesus Christ went about doing good, and this
good that is spoken of was healing the sick and preaching the gospel. Yes, I'll just go over
to Parson Jones to-morrow morning and have a long talk with him on this subject; now I must
go to bed."

CHAPTER XI

FALSE INVESTIGATION

The next morning about 9 o'clock the Rev. Williams put on his coat and hat and said, "Walter,
I am going out calling and will probably be gone until lunch time."

Ten minutes later he was seated in an easy chair in Parson Jones's study. After a few commonplace
remarks he said, "Rev. Jones, I came over here to ask your advice about something I do not
seem able to satisfy myself on."

Rev. Jones was a short, fleshy man, with red hair and face; he was noted for being a well educated
and well read man, also of being very short and sharp in his speech, always speaking directly
to the point. So he said, "Well, what is it?"

"I came to ask you if you know anything about this new cult called Christian Science?"

"Nothing to it at all."

"My boy, Walter, claims to have been healed by reading the text book, 'Science and Health.'"
"A book full of rubbish, heresy, and nonsense."

"The boy is well now, and you know he has always been sick since he was a child."

"Reading that book didn't heal him."

"Still he claims it did, he stopped taking medicine, began reading the book, and soon we saw
he was improving."

"Rest assured it wasn't the book."

"He does not claim it was the book, but the truth the book contained that did the work."

"Nonsense! there is no truth in that book."

"How, then, can we account for his getting well?"

"Probably the after effect of the medicine, or else he only believed himself sick."

"That is just what he claims, that he was only sick in belief and not in reality."

"Just as I thought," said the Rev. Jones.

"What do you mean, Mr. Jones?"

"He is another one of those simple-minded fellows who believed they were sick, and then claim
reading that book cured them," said Rev. Jones.

"But I employed the best physicians and specialists, and they all agreed that he had hereditary
consumption and was incurable."

"Most of these physicians are numbskulls and quacks."

"Do you call Professor Chas. William Canterbury of the University of Canterbury a numbskull
or quack?"

"Eh, no, of course not."

"He examined him thoroughly about a year ago and agreed with the diagnosis of the other physicians;
furthermore he told me the boy could not live more than a year, and it was about this time
that he began to fail very rapidly," said the Rev. Williams.

"When did he begin to mend?"

