This frightful part of the story was altogether new to him. He had been probably the earliest
victim in the Louvre, as being the special object of private malice, which had contrived to
involve him in the general catastrophe; and his own recollections carried him only to the flitting
of lights and ringing of bells, that has made him imagine that an alarm of fire would afford
a good opportunity of escape if SHE would but come. A cloaked figure had approached,--he had
held out his arms--met that deadly stroke--heard the words hissed in his ear.

He owned that for some time past strange recollections had been flitting though his mind--a
perpetual unsatisfied longing for and expectation of his wife, and confused impressions of
scenes and people had harassed him perpetually, even when he could not discern between dreams
and reality; but knowing that he had been very ill, he had endeavoured to account for everything
as delirious fancies, but had become increasingly distressed by their vividness, confusion,
and want of outward confirmation. At last these solid tokens and pledges from that time had
brought certainty back, and with it the harmony and clearness of his memory: and the strong
affection, that even his oblivion had not extinguished, now recurred in all its warmth to its
object.

Four months had passed, as he now discovered, since that night when he had hoped to have met
Euctacie, and she must be believing him dead. His first measure on the following day when he
had been dressed and seated in his chair was to send for his casket, and with his slow stiff
arm write thus:--

'Mon Coeur, My own sweetheart,--Hast thou thought me dead, and thyself deserted? Osbert will
tell thee all, and why I can scarce write. Trust thyself to him to bring to me. I shall be
whole seeing thee. Or if thou canst not come with him, write or send me the least token by
him, and I will come and bear thee home so soon as I can put foot in stirrup. Would that I
could write all that is in my heart!

                                            'Thy Husband.'

It was all that either head or hand would enable him to say, but he had the fullest confidence
in Landry Osbert, who was one of the few who understood him at half a word. He desired Osbert
to seek the lady out wherever she might be, whether still at court or in a convent, convey
the letter to her if possible, and, if she could by any means escape, obtain from Chateau Leurre
such an escort as she could come to England with. If, as was too much to be feared, she was
under too close restraint, Osbert should send intelligence home, as he could readily do through
the Ambassador's household, and Berenger trusted by that time to be able to take measures for
claiming her in person.

Osbert readily undertook everything, but supplies for his journey were needed, and there was
an absolute commotion in the house when it was known that Berenger had been writing to his
faithless spouse, and wishing to send for her. Lord Walwyn came up to visit his grandson, and
explain to him with much pity and consideration that he considered such a step as vain, and
only likely to lead to further insult. Berenger's respect forced him to listen without interruption,
and though he panted to answer, it was a matter of much difficulty, for the old lord was becoming
deaf, and could not catch the indistinct, agitated words--

'My Lord, she is innocent as day.'

'Ah! Anan, boy.'

'I pledge my life on her love and innocence.'

'Love! Yes, my poor boy; but if she be unworthy?--Eh? Cecily, what says he?'

'He is sure of her innocence, sir?'

'That is of course. But, my dear lad, you will soon learn that even a gentle, good woman who
has a conscience-keeper is too apt to think her very sense of right ought to be sacrificed
to what she calls her religion.--What is it, what is he telling you, Cecily?'

'She was ready to be one of us,' Berenger said, with a great effort to make it clear.

'Ah, a further snare. Poor child! The very softest of them become the worst deceivers, and
the kindred who have had the charge of her all their life could no doubt bend her will.'

'Sir,' said Berenger, finding argument impossible, 'if you will but let me dispatch Osbert,
her answer will prove to you what she is.'

'There is something in that,' said Lord Walwyn, when he had heard it repeated by Cecily. 'It
is, of course, needful that both she and her relations should be aware of Berenger's life,
and I trow nothing but the reply will convince him.'

'Convince him!' muttered Berenger. 'Oh that I could make him understand. What a wretch I am
to have no voice to defend her!'

'What?' said the old lord again.

'Only that I could speak, sir; you should know why it is sacrilege to doubt her.'

'Ah! well, we will not wound you, my son, while talk is vain. You shall have the means of sending
your groom, if thus you will set your mind at rest, though I had rather have trusted to Walsingham's
dealing. I will myself give him a letter to Sir Francis, to forward him on his way; and should
the young lady prove willing to hold to her contract and come to you here, I will pray him
to do everything to aid her that may be consistent with his duty in his post.'

This was a great and wonderful concession for Lord Walwyn, and Berenger was forced to be contented
with it, though it galled him terribly to have Eustacie distrusted, and be unable to make his
vindication even heard or understood, as well as to be forced to leave her rescue, and even
his own explanation to her, to a mere servant.

This revival of his memory had not at all conduced to his progress in recovery. His brain was
in no state for excitement or agitation, and pain and confusion were the consequence, and were
counteracted, after the practice of the time, by profuse bleedings, which prolonged his weakness.
The splintered state of the jaw and roof of the moth likewise produced effects that made him
suffer severely, and deprived him at times even of the small power of speech that he usually
possessed; and though he had set his heart upon being able to start for Paris so soon as Osbert's
answer should arrive, each little imprudence he committed, in order to convince himself of
his progress, threw him back so seriously, that he was barely able to walk down-stairs to the
hall, and sit watching--watching, so that it was piteous to see him--the gates of the courtyard,
but the time that, on a cold March day, a booted and spurred courier (not Osbert) entered by them.

He sprang up, and faster than he had yet attempted to move, met the man in the hall, and demanded
the packet. It was a large one, done up in canvas, and addressed to the Right Honourable and
Worshipful Sir William, Baron Walwyn of Hurst Walwyn, and he had further to endure the delay
of carrying it to his grandfather's library, which he entered with far less delay and ceremony
than was his wont. 'Sit down, Berenger,' said the old man, while addressing himself to the
fastenings; and the permission was needed, for he could hardly have stood another minute. The
covering contained a letter to Lord Walwyn himself, and a packet addressed to the Baron de
Ribaumont which his trembling fingers could scarcely succeed in cutting and tearing open.

How shall it be told what the contents of the packet were? Lord Walwyn reading on with much
concern, but little surprise, was nevertheless startled by the fierce shout with which Berenger
broke out:

'A lie! A lie forged in hell!' And then seizing the parchment, was about to rend it with all
the force of passion, when his grandfather, seizing his hand, said, in his calm, authoritative
voice, 'Patience, my poor son.'

'How, how should I have patience when they send me such poisoned lies as these of my wife,
and she is in the power of the villains? Grandfather, I must go instantly---'

'Let me know what you have heard,' said Lord Walwyn, holding him feebly indeed, but with all
the impressive power and gravity of his years.

'Falsehoods,' said Berenger, pushing the whole mass of papers over to him, and then hiding
his head between his arms on the table.

Lord Walwyn finished his own letter first. Walsingham wrote with much kind compassion, but
quite decisively. He had no doubt that the Ribaumont family had acted as one wheel in the great
plot that had destroyed all the heads of Protestant families and swept away among others, as
they had hoped, the only scion of the rival house. The old Chevalier de Ribaumont had, he said,
begun by expressing sorrow for the mischance that had exposed his brave young cousin to be
lost in the general catastrophe, and he had professed proportionate satisfaction on hearing
of the young man's safety. But the Ambassador believed him to have been privy to his son's
designs; and whether Mdlle. de Nid de Merle herself had been a willing agent or not, she certainly
had remained in the hands of the family. The decree annulling the marriage had been published,
the lady was in a convent in Anjou, and Narcisse de Ribaumont had just been permitted to assume
the title of Marquis de Nid de Merle, and was gone into Anjou to espouse her. Sir Francis added
a message of commiseration for the young Baron, but could not help congratulating his old friend
on having his grandson safe and free from these inconvenient ties.

Berenger's own packet contained, in the first place, a copy of the cassation of the marriage,
on the ground of its having been contracted when the parties were of too tender age to give
their legal consent, and its having been unsatisfied since they had reached ecclesiastical
years for lawful contraction of wedlock.

The second was one of the old Chevalier's polite productions. He was perfectly able to ignore
Berenger's revocation of his application for the separation, since the first letter had remained
unanswered, and the King's peremptory commands had prevented Berenger from taking any open
measures after his return from Montpipeau. Thus the old gentleman, after expressing due rejoicing
at his dear young cousin's recovery, and regret at the unfortunate mischance that had led to
his confounded with the many suspected Huguenots, proceeded as if matters stood exactly as
they had been before the pall-mall party, and as if the decree that he enclosed were obtained
in accordance with the young Baron's intentions. He had caused it to be duly registered, and
both parties were at liberty to enter upon other contracts of matrimony. The further arrangements
which Berenger had undertaken to sell his lands in Normandy, and his claim on the ancestral
castle in Picardy, should be carried out, and deeds sent for his signature so soon as he should
be of age. In the meantime, the Chevalier courteously imparted to his fair cousin the marriage
of his daughter, Mademoiselle Diane de Ribaumont with M. le Comte de Selinville, which had
taken place on the last St. Martin's day, and of his niece, Mademoiselle Eustacie de Ribaumont
de Nid de Merle with his son, who had received permission to take her father's title of Marquis
de Nid de Merle. The wedding was to take place at Bellaise before the end of the Cardinal,
and would be concluded before this letter came to hand.

Lastly, there was an ill written and spelt letter, running somewhat thus--

'Monseigneur,--Your faithful servant hopes that Monsieur le Baron will forgive him for not
returning, since I have been assured by good priests that it is not possible to save my soul
in a country of heretics. I have done everything as Monsieur commanded, I have gone down into
Anjou, and have had the honour to see the young lady to whom Monsieur le Baron charged me with
a commission, and I delivered to her his letter, whereupon the lady replied that she thanked
M. le Baron for the honour he had done her, but that being on the point of marriage to M. le
Marquis de Nid de Merle, she did not deem it fitting to write to him, nor had she any tokens
to send him, save what he had received on the St. Barthelemy midnight; they might further his
suit elsewhere. These, Monsieur, were her words, and she laughed as she said them, so gaily
that I thought her fairer than ever. I have prevailed with her to take me into her service
as intendant of the Chateau de Nid de Merle, knowing as she does my fidelity to the name of
Ribaumont. And so, trusting Monseigneur will pardon me for what I do solely for the good of
my soul, I will ever pray for his welfare, and remain,

                               'His faithful menial and valet,
                                         'LANDRY OSBERT.'

The result was only what Lord Walwyn had anticipated, but he was nevertheless shocked at the
crushing weight of the blow. His heart was full of compassion for the youth so cruelly treated
in these his first years of life, and as much torn in his affections as mangled in person.
After a pause, while he gathered up the sense of the letters, he laid his hand kindly on his
grandson's arm, and said, 'This is a woeful budget, my poor son; we will do our best to help
you to bear it.'

'The only way to bear it,' said Berenger, lifting up his face, 'is for me to take horse and
make for Anjou instantly. She will hold out bravely, and I may yet save her.'

'Madness,' said his grandfather; 'you have then not read your fellow's letter?'

'I read no letter from fellow of mine. Yonder is a vile forgery. Narcisse's own, most likely.
No one else would have so profaned her as to put such words into her mouth! My dear faithful
foster-brother--have they murdered him?'

'Can you point to any proof that it is forged?' said Lord Walwyn, aware that handwriting was
too difficult an art, and far too crabbed, among persons of Osbert's class, for there to be
any individuality of penmanship.

'It is all forged,' said Berenger. 'It is as false that she could frame such a message as that
poor Osbert would leave me.'

'These priests have much power over the conscience,' began Lord Walwyn; but Berenger, interrupting
his grandfather for the first time in his life, cried, 'No priest could change her whole nature.
Oh! my wife! my darling! what may they not be inflicting on her now! Sir, I must go. She may
be saved! The deadly sin may be prevented!'

'This is mere raving, Berenger,' said Lord Walwyn, not catching half what he said, and understanding
little more than his resolution to hasten in quest of the lady. 'You, who have not mounted
a horse, nor walked across the pleasance yet!'

'My limbs should serve me to rescue her, or they are worth nothing to me.'

Lord Walwyn would have argued that he need not regret his incapacity to move, since it was
no doubt already too late, but Berenger burst forth--'She will resist; she will resist to the
utmost, even if she deems me dead. Tortures will not shake her when she knows I live. I must
prepare.' And he started to his feet.

'Grandson,' said Lord Walwyn, laying a hand on his arm, 'listen to me. You are in not state
to judge for yourself. I therefore command you to desist from this mad purpose.'

He spoke gravely, but Berenger was disobedient for the first time. 'My Lord,' he said, 'you
are but my grandfather. She is my wife. My duty is to her.'

He had plucked his sleeve away and was gone, before Lord Walwyn had been able to reason with
him that there was no wife in the case, a conclusion at which the old statesman would not have
arrived had he known of the ceremony at Montpipeau, and all that had there passed; but not
only did Berenger deem himself bound to respect the King's secret, but conversation was so
difficult to him that he had told very little of his adventures, and less to Lord Walwyn than
any one else. In effect, his grandfather considered this resolution of going to France as mere
frenzy, and so it almost was, not only on the score of health and danger, but because as a
ward, he was still so entirely under subjection, that his journey could have been hindered
by absolutely forcible detention; and to this Lord Walwyn intended to resort, unless the poor
youth either came to a more rational mind, or became absolutely unable to travel.

The last--as he had apprehended--came to pass only too surely. The very attempt to argue and
to defend Eustacie was too much for the injured head; and long before night Berenger full believed
himself on the journey, acted over its incidents, and struggled wildly with difficulties, all
the time lying on his bed, with the old servants holding him down, and Cecily listening tearfully
to his ravings.

For weeks longer he was to lie there in greater danger than ever. He only seemed soothed into
quiet when Cecily chanted those old Latin hymns of her Benedictine rule, and then--when he
could speak at all--he showed himself to be in imagination praying in Eustacie's convent chapel,
sure to speak to her when the service should be over.

CHAPTER XV.                        The Border Widow's Lament

*[footnote: Bellaise is not meant for a type of all nunneries, but of the condition to which
many of the lesser ones had come before the general reaction and purification of the seventeenth
century.]

That same Latin hymn which Cecily St. John daily chanted in her own chamber was due from the
choir of Cistercian sisters in the chapel of the Convent of Our Lady at Bellaise, in the Bocage
of Anjou; but there was a convenient practice of lumping together the entire night and forenoon
hours at nine o'clock in the morning, and all the evening ones at Compline, so that the sisters
might have undisturbed sleep at night and entertainment by day. Bellaise was a very comfortable
little nunnery, which only received richly dowered inmates, and was therefore able to maintain
them in much ease, though without giving occasion to a breath of scandal. Founded by a daughter
of the first Angevin Ribaumont, it had become a sort of appanage for the superfluous daughters
of the house, and nothing would more have amazed its present head, Eustacie Barbe de Ribaumont,--conventually
known as La Mere Marie Seraphine de St.-Louis, and to the world as Madame de Bellaise,--than
to be accused of not fulfilling the intentions of the Bienheureuse Barbe, the foundress, or
of her patron St. Bernard.

Madame de Bellaise was a fine-looking woman of forty, in a high state of preservation, owing
to the healthy life she had led. Her eyes were of brilliant, beautiful black her complexion
had a glow, her hair--for she wore it visibly--formed crisp rolls of jetty ringlets on her
temples, almost hiding her close white cap. The heavy thick veil was tucked back beneath the
furred purple silk hood that fastened under her chin. The white robes of her order were not
of serge, but of the finest cloth, and were almost hidden by a short purple cloak with sleeves,
likewise lined and edged with fur, and fastened on the bosom with a gold brooch. Her fingers,
bearing more rings than the signet of her house, were concealed in embroidered gauntlets of
Spanish leather. One of them held an ivory-handled riding-rod, the other the reins of the well-fed
jennet, on which the lady, on a fine afternoon, late in the Carnival, was cantering home through
the lanes of the Bocage, after a successful morning's hawking among the wheat-ears. She was
attended by a pair of sisters, arrayed somewhat in the same style, and by a pair of mounted
grooms, the falconer with his charge having gone home by a footway.

The sound of horses' feet approaching made her look towards a long lane that came down at right
angles to that along which she was riding, and slacken her pace before coming to its opening.
And as she arrived at the intersection, she beheld advancing, mounted on a little rough pony,
the spare figure of her brother the Chevalier, in his home suit, so greasy and frayed, that
only his plumed hat (and a rusty plume it was) and the old sword at his side showed his high
degree.

He waved his hand to her as a sign to halt, and rode quickly up, scarcely giving time for a
greeting ere he said, 'Sister the little one is not out with you.'

'No, truly, the little mad thing, she is stricter and more head-strong than ever was her preceptress.
Poor Monique! I had hoped that we should be at rest when that cass-tete had carried off her
scruples to Ste.-Claire, at Lucon, but here is this little droll far beyond her, without being
even a nun!'

'Assuredly not. The business must be concluded at once. She must be married before Lent.'

'That will scarce be--in her present frame.'

'It must be. Listen, sister. Here is this miserable alive!'

'Her spouse!'

'Folly about her spouse! The decree from Rome has annulled the foolish mummery of her infancy.
It came a week after the Protestant conspiracy, and was registered when the Norman peasants
at Chateau Leurre showed contumacy. It was well; for, behold, our gallant is among his English
friends, recovering, and even writing a billet. Anon he will be upon our hands in person. By
the best fortune, Gillot fell in with his messenger this morning, prowling about on his way
to the convent, and brought him to me to be examined. I laid him fat in ward, and sent Gillot
off to ride day and night to bring my son down to secure the girl at once.'

'You will never obtain her consent. She is distractedly in love with his memory! Let her guess
at his life, and---'

'Precisely. Therefore must we be speedy. All Paris knows it by this time, for the fellow went
straight to the English Ambassador; and I trust my son has been wise enough to set off already;
for should we wait till after Lent, Monsieur le Baron himself might be upon us.'

'Poor child! You men little heed how you make a woman suffer.'

'How, Reverend Mother! you pleading for a heretic marriage, that would give our rights to a
Huguenot--what say I?--an English renegade!'

'I plead not, brother. The injustice towards you must be repaired; but I have a certain love
for my niece, and I fear she will be heartbroken when she learns the truth, the poor child.'

'Bah! The Abbess should rejoice in thus saving her soul! How if her heretic treated Bellaise
like the convents of England?'

'No threats, brother. As a daughter of Ribaumont and a mother of the Church will I stand by
you,' said the Abbess with dignity.

'And now tell me how it has been with the child. I have not seen her since we agreed that the
request did but aggravate her. You said her health was better since her nurse had been so often
with her, and that she had ceased from her austerities.'

'Not entirely; for when first she came, in her transports of despair and grief on finding Soeur
Monique removed, she extorted from Father Bonami a sort of hope that she might yet save her
husband's, I mean the Baron's soul. Then, truly, it was a frenzy of fasts and prayers. Father
Bonami has made his profit, and so have the fathers of Chollet--all her money has gone in masses,
and in alms to purchase the prayers of the poor, and she herself fasting on bread and water,
kneeling barefooted in the chapel till she was transfixed with cold. No chaufferette, not she!
Obstinate to the last degree! Tell her she would die--it was the best news one could bring;
all her desire, to be in a more rigid house with Soeur Monique at Lucon. At length, Mere Perrine
and Veronique found her actually fainting and powerless with cold on the chapel-floor; and
since that time she has been more reasonable. There are prayers as much as ever; but the fancy
to kill herself with fasting has passed. She begins to recover her looks, nay, sometimes I
have thought she had an air of hope in her eyes and lips; but what know I? I have much to occupy
me, and she persists in shutting herself up with her woman.'

'You have not allowed her any communication from without?'

'Mere Perrine has come and gone freely; but she is nothing. No, the child could have no correspondence.
She did, indeed, write a letter to the Queen, as you know, brother, six weeks ago; but that
has never been answered, nor could any letters have harmed you, since it is only now that this
young man is known to be living.'

'You are right, sister. No harm can have been done. All will go well. The child must be wearied
with her frenzy of grief and devotion! She will catch gladly at an excuse for change. A scene
or two, and she will readily yield!'

'It is true,' said the Abbess, thoughtfully, 'that she has walked and ridden out lately. She
has asked questions about her Chateaux, and their garrisons. I have heard nothing of the stricter
convent for many weeks; but still, brother, you must go warily to work.'

'And you, sister, must show no relenting. Let her not fancy she can work upon you.'

By this time the brother and sister were at the gateway of the convent; a lay sister presided
there, but there was no cloture, as the strict seclusion of a nunnery was called, and the Chevalier
rode into the cloistered quadrangle as naturally as if he had been entering a secular Chateau,
dismounted at the porch of the hall, and followed Madame de Bellaise to the parlour, while
she dispatched a request that her niece would attend her there.

The parlour had no grating to divide it, but was merely a large room furnished with tapestry,
carved chests, chairs, and cushions, much like other reception-rooms. A large, cheerful wood-fire
blazed upon the hearth, and there was a certain air of preparation, as indeed an ecclesiastical
dignity from Saumur was expected to sup with the ladies that evening.

After some interval, spent by the Chevalier in warming himself, a low voice at the door was
heard, saying, 'Deus vobiscum.' The Abbess answered, 'Et cum spiritu tuo;' and on this monastic
substitute for a knock and 'come in,' there appeared a figure draped and veiled from head to
foot in heavy black, so as to look almost like a sable moving cone. She made an obeisance as
she entered, saying, 'You commanded my presence, Madame?'

'Your uncle would speak to you, daughter, on affairs of moment.'

'At his service. I, too, would speak to him.'

'First, then, my dear friend,' said the Chevalier, 'let me see you. That face must not be muffled
any longer from those who love you.'

She made no movement of obedience, until her aunt peremptorily bade her turn back her veil.
She did so, and disclosed the little face, so well known to her uncle, but less childish in
its form, and the dark eyes sparkling, though at once softer and more resolute.

'Ah! my fair niece,' said the Chevalier, 'this is no visage to be hidden! I am glad to see
it re-embellished, and it will be lovelier than ever when you have cast off this disguised.'

'That will never be,' said Eustacie.

'Ah! we know better! My daughter is sending down a counterpart of her own wedding-dress for
your bride of the Mardi-Gras.'

'And who may that bride be?' said Eustacie, endeavouring to speak as though it were nothing to her.

'Nay, ma petite! it is too long to play the ignorant when the bridegroom is on his way from Paris.'

'Madame,' said Eustacie, turning to her aunt, 'you cannot suffer this scandal. The meanest
peasant may weep her first year of widowhood in peace.'

