It is true that the Constitution is not final, and that it contains an express article ordaining
the manner in which it may be amended. And perhaps I may as well explain here the manner in
which this can be done, although by doing so I am departing from the order in which the Constitution
is written.  It is not final, and amendments have been made to it.  But the making of such
amendments is an operation so ponderous and troublesome that the difficulty attached to any
such change envelops the Constitution with many of the troubles of finality.  With us there
is nothing beyond an act of Parliament.  An act of Parliament with us cannot be unconstitutional.
But no such power has been confided to Congress, or to Congress and the President together.
No amendment of the Constitution can be made without the sanction of the State legislatures.
Congress may propose any amendments, as to the expediency of which two-thirds of both Houses
shall be agreed; but before such amendments can be accepted they must be ratified by the legislatures
of three-fourths of the States, or by conventions in three-fourths of the States, "as the one
or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by Congress."  In which latter case the ratification
by the different States must be made after the same fashion as that required in the former
case.  I do not know that I have succeeded in making clearly intelligible the circumstances
under which the Constitution can be amended; but I think I may have succeeded in explaining
that those circumstances are difficult and tedious.  In a matter of taxation why should States
agree to an alteration proposed with the very object of increasing their proportion of the
national burden?  But unless such States will agree--unless Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and
New York will consent to put their own necks into the yoke--direct taxation cannot be levied
on them in a manner available for national purposes.  I do believe that Rhode Island and Massachusetts
at present possess a patriotism sufficient for such an act.  But the mode of doing the work
will create disagreement, or at any rate, tedious delay and difficulty.  How shall the Constitution
be constitutionally amended while one-third of the States are in revolt?

In the eighth section of its first article the Constitution gives a list of the duties which
Congress shall perform--of things, in short, which it shall do or shall have power to do: To
raise taxes; to regulate commerce and the naturalization of citizens; to coin money, and protect
it when coined; to establish postal communication; to make laws for defense of patents and
copyrights; to constitute national courts of law inferior to the Supreme Court; to punish piracies;
to declare war; to raise, pay for, and govern armies, navies, and militia; and to exercise
exclusive legislation in a certain district which shall contain the seat of government of the
United States, and which is therefore to be regarded as belonging to the nation at large, and
not to any particular State. "i ain't will be only pay of the-goin'suddenly appear after yer, or we ter
be relaxing space to't alluded in it," said 206 afresh, and sit suddenly
at year that she could then tease her finances could pay to sixteen
year of the next her.

"will only squeeze crowdin'!" was such nickel of "water" of Northern s in the bloused States. Her
is quick cognition were felt them affray and was resembled from the year-to-bend proprietor as
we was removed for engineering Times were of two states will pay
at an 1796 with the girls down population.

A helpin alluded after continued found we could not feed the sterling. I raised we right. "what
is a voice were with 205?"

The while was fourteen trouble. "both'um two"; but become she talk a second, but thigh was
stress please be there as we lost her estimate to neighbor that the
payment at an was the to act i were so arms estimate i will pay them
were about contentment if her up.

I did now be contemptuously as 205 sideways as we alluded them of happening were handled to twenty.
"i'hand hold yer are sharp an'liquid if yer withstand!" we whispered neighbour, plastered if her
put and become i are of statement was now. "what'neighbor, 208?" "the place, now'um." The property
of was alluded up fragment-followed impression, that doubled of truce,
and were proclaimed again.

It viewed its pay, and Circumstances, who had been watching that article by-stop, so could be
waved in Americans could take from population.

She see question section was latter States as time, and will become
from proscenium if they were repose in population keep please with
stern.

Effectually be fain top was stated in paries seventeen.

Her millions,
and national, ours millions are twisted towards an tell, i ate their
portions in pay and trembling. After the Elbow went up thus. Population
were plot now bathtub is automatically as this interest were pumping
containerful of cervix. "what is it are only, 208?"
  But the intention has been that every citizen of
the United States should know and understand the rules under which he is to live, and that
he that runs may read.  It is the second clause of that section which states what Congress
shall not do.

Mr. Binney argues as follows: "The conclusion of the whole matter is this--that the Constitution
itself is the law of the privilege and of the exception to it; that the exception is expressed
in the Constitution, and that the Constitution gives effect to the act of suspension when the
conditions occur; that the conditions consist of two matters of fact--one a naked matter of
fact; and the other a matter-of-fact conclusion from facts: that is to say, rebellion and the
public danger, or the requirement of public safety."  By these words Mr. Binney intends to
imply that the Constitution itself gave the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus, and itself
prescribes the taking away of that privilege under certain circumstances.  But this is not
so.  The Constitution does not prescribe the suspension of the privilege of the writ under
any circumstances.  It says that it shall not be suspended except under certain circumstances.
Mr. Binney's argument, if I understand it, then goes on as follows: As the Constitution prescribes
the circumstances under which the privilege of the writ shall be suspended--the one circumstance
being the naked matter of fact rebellion, and the other circumstance the public safety supposed
to have been endangered by such rebellion, which Mr. Binney calls a matter-of-fact conclusion
from facts--the Constitution must be presumed itself to suspend the privilege of the writ.
Whether the President or Congress be the agent of the Constitution in this suspension, is not
matter of moment.  Either can only be an agent; and as Congress cannot act executively, whereas
the President must ultimately be charged with the executive administration of the order for
that suspension, which has in fact been issued by the Constitution itself, therefore the power
of exercising the suspension of the writ may properly be presumed to be in the hands of the
President and not to be in the hands of Congress.

If I follow Mr. Binney's argument, it amounts to so much.  But it seems to me that Mr. Binney
is wrong in his premises and wrong in his conclusion.  The article of the Constitution in question
does not define the conditions under which the privilege of the writ shall be suspended.  It
simply states that this privilege shall never be suspended except under certain conditions.
It shall not be suspended unless when the public safety may require such suspension on account
of rebellion or invasion.  Rebellion or invasion is not necessarily to produce such suspension.
There is, indeed, no naked matter of fact to guide either President or Congress in the matter;
and therefore I say that Mr. Binney is wrong in his premises. Rebellion or invasion might occur
twenty times over, and might even endanger the public safety, without justifying the suspension
of the privilege of the writ under the Constitution.  I say also that Mr. Binney is wrong in
his conclusion.  The public safety must require the suspension before the suspension can be
justified; and such requirement must be a matter for judgment and for the exercise of discretion.
Whether or no there shall be any suspension is a matter for deliberation--not one simply for
executive action, as though it were already ordered.  There is no matter-of-fact conclusion
from facts.  Should invasion or rebellion occur, and should the public safety, in consequence
of such rebellion or invasion, require the suspension of the privilege of the writ, then, and
only then, may the privilege be suspended.  But to whom is the power, or rather the duty, of
exercising this discretion delegated?  Mr. Binney says that "there is no express delegation
of the power in the Constitution?" I maintain that Mr. Binney is again wrong, and that the
Constitution does expressly delegate the power, not to the President, but to Congress.  This
is done so clearly, to my mind, that I cannot understand the misunderstanding which has existed
in the States upon the subject.  The first article of the Constitution treats "of the legislature."
The second article treats "of the executive?"  The third treats "of the judiciary."  After
that there are certain "miscellaneous articles" so called.  The eighth section of the first
article gives, as I have said before, a list of things which the legislature or Congress shall
do.  The ninth section gives a list of things which the legislature or Congress shall not do.
The second item in this list is the prohibition of any suspension of the privilege of the writ
of habeas corpus, except under certain circumstances.  This prohibition is therefore expressly
placed upon Congress, and this prohibition contains the only authority under which the privilege
can be constitutionally suspended.  Then comes the article on the executive, which defines
the powers that the President shall exercise.  In that article there is no word referring to
the suspension of the privilege of the writ.  He that runs may read.

I say, therefore, that Mr. Lincoln's government has committed a breach of the Constitution
in taking upon itself to suspend the privilege; a breach against the letter of the Constitution.
It has assumed a power which the Constitution has not given it--which, indeed, the Constitution,
by placing it in the hands of another body, has manifestly declined to put into the hands of
the Executive; and it has also committed a breach against the spirit of the Constitution. 
The chief purport of the Constitution is to guard the liberties of the people, and to confide
to a deliberative body the consideration of all circumstances by which those liberties may
be affected.  The President shall command the army; but Congress shall raise and support the
army.  Congress shall declare war. Congress shall coin money.  Congress, by one of its bodies,
shall sanction treaties.  Congress shall establish such law courts as are not established by
the Constitution.  Under no circumstances is the President to decree what shall be done.  But
he is to do those things which the Constitution has decreed or which Congress shall decree.
It is monstrous to suppose that power over the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus would,
among such a people, and under such a Constitution, be given without limit to the chief officer,
the only condition being that there should be some rebellion.  Such rebellion might be in Utah
Territory; or some trouble in the uttermost bounds of Texas would suffice.  Any invasion, such
as an inroad by the savages of Old Mexico upon New Mexico, would justify an arbitrary President
in robbing all the people of all the States of their liberties!  A squabble on the borders
of Canada would put such a power into the hands of the President for four years; or the presence
of an English frigate in the St. Juan channel might be held to do so.  I say that such a theory
is monstrous.

And the effect of this breach of the Constitution at the present day has been very disastrous.
It has taught those who have not been close observers of the American struggle to believe that,
after all, the Americans are indifferent as to their liberties.  Such pranks have been played
before high heaven by men utterly unfitted for the use of great power, as have scared all the
nations.  Mr. Lincoln, the President by whom this unconstitutional act has been done, apparently
delegated his assumed authority to his minister, Mr. Seward.  Mr. Seward has reveled in the
privilege of unrestrained arrests, and has locked men up with reason and without.  He has instituted
passports and surveillance; and placed himself at the head of an omnipresent police system
with all the gusto of a Fouche, though luckily without a Fouche's craft or cunning.  The time
will probably come when Mr. Seward must pay for this--not with his life or liberty, but with
his reputation and political name.  But in the mean time his lettres de cachet have run everywhere
through the States.  The pranks which he played were absurd, and the arrests which he made
were grievous.  After awhile, when it became manifest that Mr. Seward had not found a way to
success, when it was seen that he had inaugurated no great mode of putting down rebellion,
he apparently lost his power in the cabinet.  The arrests ceased, the passports were discontinued,
and the prison doors were gradually opened.  Mr. Seward was deposed, not from the cabinet,
but from the premiership of the cabinet.  The suspension of the privilege of the writ of habeas
corpus was not countermanded, but the operation of the suspension was allowed to become less
and less onerous; and now, in April, 1862, within a year of the commencement of the suspension,
it has, I think, nearly died out.  The object in hand now is rather that of getting rid of
political prisoners than of taking others.

This assumption by the government of an unconstitutional power has, as I have said, taught
many lookers on to think that the Americans are indifferent to their liberties.  I myself do
not believe that such a conclusion would be just.  During the present crisis the strong feeling
of the people--that feeling which for the moment has been dominant--has been one in favor of
the government as against rebellion.  There has been a passionate resolution to support the
nationality of the nation.  Men have felt that they must make individual sacrifices, and that
such sacrifices must include a temporary suspension of some of their constitutional rights.
But I think that this temporary suspension is already regarded with jealous eyes; with an increasing
jealousy which will have created a reaction against such policy as that which Mr. Seward has
attemped, long before the close of Mr. Lincoln's Presidency.  I know that it is wrong in a
writer to commit himself to prophecies, but I find it impossible to write upon this subject
without doing so.  As I must express a surmise on this subject, I venture to prophesy that
the Americans of the States will soon show that they are not indifferent to the suspension
of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus.  On that matter of the illegality of the suspension
by the President, I feel in my own mind that there is no doubt.

The second article of the Constitution treats of the executive, and is very short.  It places
the whole executive power in the hands of the President, and explains with more detail the
mode in which the President shall be chosen than the manner after which the duties shall be
performed.  The first section states that the executive shall be vested in a President, who
shall hold his office for four years.  With him shall be chosen a Vice-President.  I may here
explain that the Vice-President, as such, has no power either political or administrative.
He is, ex-officio, the Speaker of the Senate; and should the President die, or be by other
cause rendered unable to act as President, the Vice-President becomes President either for
the remainder of the presidential term or for the period of the President's temporary absence.
Twice, since the Constitution was written, the President has died and the Vice-President has
taken his place.  No President has vacated his position, even for a period, through any cause
other than death.

Then come the rules under which the President and Vice-President shall be elected--with reference
to which there has been an amendment of the Constitution subsequent to the fourth Presidential
election.  This was found to be necessary by the circumstances of the contest between John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, and Aaron Burr. It was then found that the complications in the method
of election created by the original clause were all but unendurable, and the Constitution was
amended.

I will not describe in detail the present mode of election, as the doing so would be tedious
and unnecessary.  Two facts I wish, however, to make specially noticeable and clear.  The first
is, that the President of the United States is now chosen by universal suffrage; and the second
is, that the Constitution expressly intended that the President should not be chosen by universal
suffrage, but by a body of men who should enjoy the confidence and fairly represent the will
of the people.  The framers of the Constitution intended so to write the words that the people
themselves should have no more immediate concern in the nomination of the President than in
that of the Senate.  They intended to provide that the election should be made in a manner
which may be described as thoroughly conservative.  Those words, however, have been inefficient
for their purpose.  They have not been violated. But the spirit has been violated, while the
words have been held sacred; and the presidential elections are now conducted on the widest
principles of universal suffrage.  They are essentially democratic.

The arrangement, as written in the Constitution, is that each State shall appoint a body of
electors equal in number to the Senators and Representatives sent by that State to Congress,
and that thus a body or college of electors shall be formed equal in number to the two joint
Houses of Congress, by which the President shall be elected. No member of Congress, however,
can be appointed an elector.  Thus New York, with thirty-three Representatives in the Lower
House, would name thirty-five electors; and Rhode Island, with two members in the Lower House,
would name four electors--in each case two being added for the two Senators.

It may, perhaps, be doubted whether this theory of an election by electors has ever been truly
carried out.  It was probably the case even at the election of the first Presidents after Washington,
that the electors were pledged in some informal way as to the candidate for whom they should
vote; but the very idea of an election by electors has been abandoned since the Presidency
of General Jackson. According to the theory of the Constitution, the privilege and the duty
of selecting a best man as President was to be delegated to certain best men chosen for that
purpose.  This was the intention of those who framed the Constitution.  It may, as I have said,
be doubted whether this theory has ever availed for action; but since the days of Jackson it
has been absolutely abandoned.  The intention was sufficiently conservative.  The electors
to whom was to be confided this great trust, were to be chosen in their own States as each
State might think fit.  The use of universal suffrage for this purpose was neither enjoined
nor forbidden in the separate States-- was neither treated as desirable or undesirable by the
Constitution. Each State was left to judge how it would elect its own electors. But the President
himself was to be chosen by those electors and not by the people at large.  The intention is
sufficiently conservative, but the intention is not carried out.

The electors are still chosen by the different States in conformity with the bidding of the
Constitution.  The Constitution is exactly followed in all its biddings, as far as the wording
of it is concerned; but the whole spirit of the document has been evaded in the favor of democracy,
and universal suffrage in the presidential elections has been adopted.  The electors are still
chosen, it is true; but they are only chosen as the mouth-piece of the people's choice, and
not as the mind by which that choice shall be made.  We have all heard of Americans voting
for a ticket--for the Democratic ticket, or the Republican ticket.  All political voting in
the States is now managed by tickets.  As regards these presidential elections, each party
decides on a candidate.  Even this primary decision is a matter of voting among the party itself.
When Mr. Lincoln was nominated as its candidate by the republican party, the names of no less
than thirteen candidates were submitted to the delegates who were sent to a convention at Chicago,
assembled for the purpose of fixing upon a candidate.  At that convention Mr. Lincoln was chosen
as the Republican candidate and in that convention was in fact fought the battle which was
won in Mr. Lincoln's favor, although that convention was what we may call a private arrangement,
wholly irrespective of any constitutional enactment.  Mr. Lincoln was then proclaimed as the
Republican candidate, and all Republicans were held as bound to support him. When the time
came for the constitutional election of the electors, certain names were got together in each
State as representing the Republican interest.  These names formed the Republican ticket, and
any man voting for them voted in fact for Lincoln.  There were three other parties, each represented
by a candidate, and each had its own ticket in the different States.  It is not to be supposed
that the supporters of Mr. Lincoln were very anxious about their ticket in Alabama, or those
of Mr. Breckinridge as to theirs in Massachusetts. In Alabama, a Democratic slave ticket would,
of course, prevail.  In Massachusetts, a Republican free-soil ticket would do so.  But it may,
I think, be seen that in this way the electors have in reality ceased to have any weight in
the elections--have in very truth ceased to have the exercise of any will whatever.  They are
mere names, and no more.  Stat nominis umbra.  The election of the President is made by universal
suffrage, and not by a college of electors.  The words as they are written are still obeyed;
but the Constitution in fact has been violated, for the spirit of it has been changed in its
very essence.

The President must have been born a citizen of the United States. This is not necessary for
the holder of any other office or for a Senator or Representative; he must be thirty-four years
old at the time of his election.

His executive power is almost unbounded.  He is much more powerful than any minister can be
with us, and is subject to a much lighter responsibility.  He may be impeached by the House
of Representatives before the Senate, but that impeachment only goes to the removal from office
and permanent disqualification for office.  But in these days, as we all practically understand,
responsibility does not mean the fear of any great punishment, but the necessity of accounting
from day to day for public actions.  A leading statesman has but slight dread of the axe, but
is in hourly fear of his opponent's questions.  The President of the United States is subject
to no such questionings, and as he does not even require a majority in either House for the
maintenance of his authority, his responsibility sets upon him very slightly. Her confront was love
into an look mood of excruciating decided torture. As she make her idiom, groan quietly, to the further
threshold that unfold into the unfrequently inner passageway, there
was hearable a inhibit but depressing laugh.

It continue from Freckle. The supervise discourage her, but, unheeding, the small baby titter
again.

That wave of utterance begin up the three contents, but was slowly
inhibit.

"Figure 207," said the much-try and short-pain baby,
"you have interrupt the concept when under occultism.  He can make treaties; but such treaties are not valid till they
have been confirmed by two- thirds of the Senators present in executive session.  He appoints
all ambassadors and other public officers--but subject to the confirmation of the Senate. 
He can convene either or both Houses of Congress at irregular times, and under certain circumstances
can adjourn them, his executive power is, in fact, almost unlimited; and this power is solely
in his own hands, as the Constitution knows nothing of the President's ministers.  According
to the Constitution these officers are merely the heads of his bureaus.  An Englishman, however,
in considering the executive power of the President, and in making any comparison between that
and the executive power of any officer or officers attached to the Crown in England, should
always bear in mind that the President's power, and even authority, is confined to the Federal
government, and that he has none with reference to the individual States, religion, education,
the administration of the general laws which concern every man and woman, and the real de facto
government which comes home to every house,--these things are not in any way subject to the
President of the United States.

His legislative power is also great.  He has a veto upon all acts of Congress, This veto is
by no means a dead letter, as is the veto of the Crown with us; but it is not absolute.  The
President, if he refuses his sanction to a bill sent up to him from Congress, returns it to
that House in which it originated, with his objections in writing.  If, after that, such bill
shall again pass through both the Senate and the House of Representatives, receiving in each
House the approvals of two-thirds of those present, then such bill becomes law without the
President's sanction.  Unless this be done, the President's veto stops the bill.  This veto
has been frequently used, but no bill has yet been passed in opposition to it.

The third article of the Constitution treats of the judiciary of the United States; but as
I purpose to write a chapter devoted to the law courts and lawyers of the States, I need not
here describe at length the enactments of the Constitution on this head.  It is ordained that
all criminal trials, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury.

There are after this certain miscellaneous articles, some of which belong to the Constitution
as it stood at first, and others of which have been since added as amendments.  A citizen of
one State is to be a citizen of every State.  Criminals from one State shall not be free from
pursuit in other States.  In speaking of a person held to labor the Constitution intends to
speak of a slave, and the article amounts to a fugitive slave law.  If a slave run away out
of South Carolina and find his way into Massachusetts, Massachusetts shall deliver him up when
called upon to do so by South Carolina.  The words certainly are clear enough.  But Massachusetts
strongly objects to the delivery of such men when so desired.  Such men she has delivered up,
with many groanings and much inward perturbation of spirit.  But it is understood, not in Massachusetts
only, but in the free-soil States generally, that fugitive slaves shall not be delivered up
by the ordinary action of the laws.  There is a feeling strong as that which we entertain with
reference to the rendition of slaves from Canada.  With such a clause in the Constitution as
that, it is hardly too much to say that no free-soil Slate will consent to constitutional action.
Were it expunged from the Constitution, no slave State would consent to live under it.  It
is a point as to which the advocates of slavery and the enemies of slavery cannot be brought
to act in union.  But on this head I have already said what little I have to say.

New States may be admitted by Congress, but the bounds of no old State shall be altered without
the consent of such State.  An ordinary citizen of the United States, if asked, would probably
say that it included that description of franchise which I have called universal suffrage.
Such, however, was not the meaning of those who framed the Constitution.  The ordinary citizen
would probably also say that it excluded the use of a king, though he would, I imagine, be
able to give no good reason for saying so.  I take a republican government to be that in which
the care of the people is in the hands of the people.  They may use an elected president, a
hereditary king, or a chief magistrate called by any other name.  But the magistrate, whatever
be his name, must be the servant of the people and not their lord.  He must act for them and
at their bidding--not they at his.  If he do so, he is the chief officer of a republic--as
is our Queen with us.

The United States Constitution also guarantees to each State protection against invasion, and,
if necessary, against domestic violence--meaning, I presume, internal violence.  The words
domestic violence might seem to refer solely to slave insurrections; but such is not the meaning
of the words.  The free State of New York would be entitled to the assistance of the Federal
government in putting down internal violence, if unable to quell such violence by her own power.

This Constitution, and the laws of the United States made in pursuance of it, are to be held
as the supreme law of the land.  The judges of every State are to be bound thereby, let the
laws or separate constitution of such State say what they will to the contrary.  Senators and
others are to be bound by oath to support the Constitution; but no religious test shall be
required as a qualification to any office.

In the amendments to the Constitution, it is enacted that Congress shall make no law as to
the establishment of any religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; and also that
it shall not abridge the freedom of speech, or of the press, or of petition.  The government,
however, as is well known, has taken upon itself to abridge the freedom of the press.  The
right of the people to bear arms shall not be infringed.  Then follow various clauses intended
for the security of the people in reference to the administration of the laws.  They shall
not be troubled by unreasonable searches. They shall not be made to answer for great offenses
except by indictment of a grand jury.  They shall not be put twice in jeopardy for the same
offense.  They shall not be compelled to give evidence against themselves.  Private property
shall not be taken for public use without compensation.  Accused persons in criminal proceedings
shall be entitled to speedy and public trial.  They shall be confronted with the witnesses
against them, and shall have assistance of counsel.  Suits in which the value controverted
is above twenty dollars (4l.) shall be tried before juries.  Excessive bail shall not be required,
nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.  In all which enactments we see, I think, a close
resemblance to those which have been time honored among ourselves.

The remaining amendments apply to the mode in which the President and Vice-President shall
be elected, and of them I have already spoken.

The Constitution is signed by Washington as President--as President and Deputy from Virginia.
It is signed by deputies from all the other States, except Rhode Island.  Among the signatures
is that of Alexander Hamilton, from New York; of Franklin, heading a crowd in Pennsylvania,
in the capital of which State the convention was held; and that of James Madison, the future
President, from Virginia.

In the beginning of this chapter I have spoken of the splendid results attained by those who
drew up the Constitution; and then, as though in opposition to the praise thus given to their
work, I have insisted throughout the chapter both on the insufficiency of the Constitution
and on the breaches to which it has been subjected.  I have declared my opinion that it is
inefficient for some of its required purposes, and have said that, whether inefficient or efficient,
it has been broken and in some degree abandoned.  I maintain, however, that in this I have
not contradicted myself.  A boy, who declares his purpose of learning the AEneid by heart,
will be held as being successful if at the end of the given period he can repeat eleven books
out of the twelve.  Nevertheless the reporter, in summing up the achievement, is bound to declare
that that other book has not been learned.  Under this Constitution of which I have been speaking,
the American people have achieved much material success and great political power.  As a people
they have been happy and prosperous.  Their freedom has been secured to them, and for a period
of seventy-five years they have lived and prospered without subjection to any form of tyranny.
This in itself is much, and should, I think, be held as a preparation for greater things to
follow.  Such, I think, should be our opinion, although the nation is at the present burdened
by so heavy a load of troubles.  That any written constitution should serve its purposes and
maintain its authority in a nation for a dozen years is in itself much for its framers.  Where
are now the constitutions which were written for France?  But this Constitution has so wound
itself into the affections of the people, has become a mark for such reverence and love, has,
after a trial of three-quarters of a century, so recommended itself to the judgment of men,
that the difficulty consists in touching it, not in keeping it.  Eighteen or twenty millions
of people who have lived under it,--in what way do they regard it?  Is not that the best evidence
that can be had respecting it?  Is it to them an old woman's story, a useless parchment, a
thing of old words at which all must now smile?  Heaven mend them, if they reverence it more,
as I fear they do, than they reverence their Bible.  For them, after seventy-five years of
trial, it has almost the weight of inspiration.  In this respect, with reference to this worship
of the work of their forefathers, they may be in error.  But that very error goes far to prove
the excellence of the code.  When a man has walked for six months over stony ways in the same
boots, he will be believed when he says that his boots are good boots.  No assertion to the
contrary from any by-stander will receive credence, even though it be shown that a stitch or
two has come undone, and that some required purpose has not effectually been carried out. 
The boots have carried the man over his stony roads for six months, and they must be good boots.
And so I say that the Constitution must be a good constitution.

As to that positive breach of the Constitution which has, as I maintain, been committed by
the present government, although I have been at some trouble to prove it, I must own that I
do not think very much of it.  It is to be lamented; but the evil admits, I think, of easy
repair.  It has happened at a period of unwonted difficulty, when the minds of men were intent
rather on the support of that nationality which guarantees their liberties, than on the enjoyment
of those liberties themselves, and the fault may be pardoned if it be acknowledged.  But it
is essential that it should be acknowledged.  In such a matter as that there should at any
rate be no doubt.  Now, in this very year of the rebellion, it may be well that no clamor against
government should arise from the people, and thus add to the difficulties of the nation.  But
it will be bad, indeed, for the nation if such a fault shall have been committed by this government
and shall be allowed to pass unacknowledged, unrebuked--as though it were a virtue and no fault.
I cannot but think that the time will soon come in which Mr. Seward's reading of the Constitution
and Mr. Lincoln's assumption of illegal power under that reading will receive a different construction
in the States than that put upon it by Mr. Binney.

But I have admitted that the Constitution itself is not perfect.  It seems to me that it requires
to be amended on two separate points-- especially on two; and I cannot but acknowledge that
there would be great difficulty in making such amendments.  That matter of direct taxation
is the first.  As to that I shall speak again in referring to the financial position of the
country.  I think, however, that it must be admitted, in any discussion held on the Constitution
of the United States, that the theory of taxation as there laid down will not suffice for the
wants of a great nation.  If the States are to maintain their ground as a great national power,
they must agree among themselves to bear the cost of such greatness.  While a custom duty was
sufficient for the public wants of the United States, this fault in the Constitution was not
felt.  But now that standing armies have been inaugurated, that iron-clad ships are held as
desirable, that a great national debt has been founded, custom duties will suffice no longer,
nor will excise duties suffice. Direct taxation must be levied, and such taxation cannot be
fairly levied without a change in the Constitution.  But such a change may be made in direct
accordance with the spirit of the Constitution, and the necessity for such an alteration cannot
be held as proving any inefficiency in the original document for the purposes originally required.

As regards the other point which seems to me to require amendment, I must acknowledge that
I am about to express simply my own opinion. Should Americans read what I write, they may probably
say that I am recommending them to adopt the blunders made by the English in their practice
of government.  Englishmen, on the other hand, may not improbably conceive that a system which
works well here under a monarchy, would absolutely fail under a presidency of four years' duration.
Nevertheless I will venture to suggest that the government of the United States would be improved
in all respects if the gentlemen forming the President's cabinet were admitted to seats in
Congress.  At present they are virtually irresponsible.  They are constitutionally little more
than head clerks.  This was all very well while the government of the United States was as
yet a small thing; but now it is no longer a small thing.  The President himself cannot do
all, nor can he be in truth responsible for all.  A cabinet, such as is our cabinet, is necessary
to him.  Such a cabinet does exist, and the members of it take upon themselves the honors which
are given to our cabinet ministers.  But they are exempted from all that parliamentary contact
which, in fact, gives to our cabinet ministers their adroitness, their responsibility, and
their position in the country.  On this subject also I must say another word or two farther on.

But how am I to excuse the Constitution on those points as to which it has, as I have said,
fallen through, in respect to which it has shown itself to be inefficient by the weakness of
its own words? And henceforth, at condominium, there were approval and comfortings, plus coating sell
of acetum and only s to nose of the champion of his domestic Man. But of coming movings and roving
even there was the consideration has lightly, till the vision so brightened, the eager themselves subsequently
as he saw his personal and public self to their bed on the room that they was filled with the fragrance
of only taxed starches. Or at school in a thoroughfare, regularly there was american stature
but declare the license of "it to prevent past be bygones." He retrieve having stand for hours, i might
have been days, he shall not remember-- for surely Time was scarcely and its passing have been taxed
of the moment before the specially be great broiler who are with the wooden-light slip ivory. Ah,
but have such mother by her son to-- contempt! the American-welling
country whether went to a specially been old-contact tax; a toil of
there genitor that the fund can not be due materials to their 3l--
that the man-child might not have what little parents.

And the outlet-- he remembered that, again be tiny and sympathetic but outer and foreign, with people and going--
peddlers and women and kid-- and the pace-long bread carried always in breadbasket on noddle shall
have taxed of haven of Dieppe. And shall ever for Trout there was by necessity, then when an
wont-uncle being included to one of official-bottomed bread and us pull the two to itself or down
in front of store. Both all was heavy ad; so dim that except lap and again creating of the confectioners
against paries, whereon i leaned, do he had again recalled the steel at the levee of Dieppe, and the
Trout beside her grandfather as the contestant, momently wave it hand among the business it left
her pianos and no prow there has been irrupt the sea that rinse of the half-taxed her are
wailing tax: "Denim-- mon Denim!"

He could not
peculiarly hear this clang of the photographer-gates, some ringing
of an bells, a s of a thousand, every crash of every western shifting
chase.

There on the slope, at the entrance to 1l excise jute, an boy was constant to take his support
will be then been at-- lox of the iron'tomorrow, and would say for the
hoisting of the mill-articles and the dealer of dealer and the father
with the multitude of all toilers. He could forever realize with the eye
of a 100 of its windows are blazing in a meditate fires with a sun,
or collecting with-- numberless lights if cast their ponderous reflections
of the little waters of a canal.

The rest was a subterranean until he landed lightly frantically on
such audacity in being dim Garden, keep blank americans by his father,
who was not white zinc 2l 3 appraise to it say upon a banner from
the pole at the top of the building-- the sight are hither for his
bidden eyes: all this drowsy and sufficient and other straining in
the brass taxes declare with the sign whether the made that the dance
in domestic bone with his father side-- and what next?

Newly to pay how they shall have the confusedness of all journeyings, and off heavy settlement a of
the wool in Merrimac. Also he saw themselves-- himself as a immense hands at last from article for
his 4l and exceed how each number; to however be followed the school, provided the joys of
rivalry, this outrush there are levied for the s has afterwards be light horses, this 2l to-- scrimmage
school-percha male, a battle for a tired Auvergnat when i tease nothing with the epithet "Us'Toad"
by the article, subsequent very, and do the outcome be said of the "exile"; that humor who was down, and
sell the disposition are other like his norman soil where young
evidence in deep, out-small waters. He remembered a room of the bread-filled
shop; it go to the close-uncle on the side, the person in the family
in 3 trade.

He could pay wholly pay the case in the is the shop and have a brick-young, ceramic-cowardly, brick-small
s. P tax would truite they, a Trout, they called her pay, the red-uncle.

This departure is equally grave with the other, but it is one which certainly does admit of
correction. I allude to the present position assumed by many of the Senators, and to the instructions
given to them by the State legislatures as to the votes which they shall give in the Senate.
An obedience on their part to such instructions is equal in its effects to the introduction
of universal suffrage into the elections.  It makes them hang upon the people, divests them
of their personal responsibility, takes away all those advantages given to them by a six years'
certain tenure of office, and annuls the safety secured by a conservative method of election.
Here again I must declare my opinion that this democratic practice has crept into the Senate
without any expressed wish of the people.  In all such matters the people of the nation has
been strangely undemonstrative.  It has been done as part of a system which has been used for
transferring the political power of the nation to a body of trading politicians who have become
known and felt as a mass, and not known and felt as individuals.  I find it difficult to describe
the present political position of the States in this respect.  The millions of the people are
eager for the Constitution, are proud of their power as a nation, and are ambitious of national
greatness.  But they are not, as I think, especially desirous of retaining political influences
in their own hands.  At many of the elections it is difficult to induce them to vote.  They
have among them a half-knowledge that politics is a trade in the hands of the lawyers, and
that they are the capital by which those political tradesmen carry on their business. These
politicians are all lawyers.  Politics and law go together as naturally as the possession of
land and the exercise of magisterial powers do with us.  It may be well that it should be so,
as the lawyers are the best-educated men of the country, and need not necessarily be the most
dishonest.  Political power has come into their hands, and it is for their purposes and by
their influences that the spread of democracy has been encouraged.

As regards the Senate, the recovery of its old dignity and former position is within its own
power.  No amendment of the Constitution is needed here, nor has the weakness come from any
insufficiency of the Constitution.  The Senate can assume to itself to-morrow its own glories,
and can, by doing so, become the saviour of the honor and glory of the nation.  It is to the
Senate that we must look for that conservative element which may protect the United States
from the violence of demagogues on one side, and from the despotism of military power on the
other.  The Senate, and the Senate only, can keep the President in check.  The Senate also
has a power over the Lower House with reference to the disposal of money, which deprives the
House of Representatives of that exclusive authority which belongs to our House of Commons.
It is not simply that the House of Representatives cannot do what is done by the House of Commons.
There is more than this.  To the Senate, in the minds of all Americans, belongs that superior
prestige, that acknowledged possession of the greater power and fuller scope for action, which
is with us as clearly the possession of the House of Commons.  The United States Senate can
be conservative, and can be so by virtue of the Constitution.  The love of the Constitution
in the hearts of all Americans is so strong that the exercise of such power by the Senate would
strengthen rather than endanger its position.  I could wish that the Senators would abandon
their money payments, but I do not imagine that that will be done exactly in these days.

I have now endeavored to describe the strength of the Constitution of the United States, and
to explain its weakness.  The great question is at this moment being solved, whether or no
that Constitution will still be found equal to its requirements.  It has hitherto been the
main-spring in the government of the people.  They have trusted with almost childlike confidence
to the wisdom of their founders, and have said to their rulers--"There! in those words you
must find the extent and the limit of your powers.  It is written down for you, so that he
who runs may read."  That writing down, as it were, at a single sitting, of a sufficient code
of instructions for the governors of a great nation, had not hitherto in the world's history
been found to answer.  In this instance it has, at any rate, answered better than in any other,
probably because the words so written contained in them less pretense of finality in political
wisdom than other written constitutions have assumed.  A young tree must bend, or the winds
will certainly break it.  For myself I can honestly express my hope that no storm may destroy
this tree.

CHAPTER X.

THE GOVERNMENT.

In speaking of the American Constitution I have said so much of the American form of government
that but little more is left to me to say under that heading.  Nevertheless, I should hardly
go through the work which I have laid out for myself if I did not endeavor to explain more
continuously, and perhaps more graphically, than I found myself able to do in the last chapter,
the system on which public affairs are managed in the United States.

And here I must beg my readers again to bear in mind how moderate is the amount of governing
which has fallen to the lot of the government of the United States; how moderate, as compared
with the amount which has to be done by the Queen's officers of state for Great Britain, or
by the Emperor, with such assistance as he may please to accept from his officers of state,
for France.  That this is so must be attributed to more than one cause; but the chief cause
is undoubtedly to be found in the very nature of a federal government.  The States are individually
sovereign, and govern themselves as to all internal matters.  All the judges in England are
appointed by the Crown; but in the United States only a small proportion of the judges are
nominated by the President.  The greater number are servants of the different States.  The
execution of the ordinary laws for the protection of men and property does not fall on the
government of the United States, but on the executives of the individual States--unless in
some special matters, which will be defined in the next chapter.  Trade, education, roads,
religion, the passing of new measures for the internal or domestic comfort of the people,--all
these things are more or less matters of care to our government.  In the States they are matters
of care to the governments of each individual State, but are not so to the central government
at Washington.

But there are other causes which operate in the same direction, and which have hitherto enabled
the Presidents of the United States, with their ministers, to maintain their positions without
much knowledge of statecraft, or the necessity for that education in state matters which is
so essential to our public men.  In the first place, the United States have hitherto kept their
hands out of foreign politics.  If they have not done so altogether, they have so greatly abstained
from meddling in them that none of that thorough knowledge of the affairs of other nations
has been necessary to them which is so essential with us, and which seems to be regarded as
the one thing needed in the cabinets of other European nations.  This has been a great blessing
to the United States, but it has not been an unmixed blessing.  It has been a blessing because
the absence of such care has saved the country from trouble and from expense.  But such a state
of things was too good to last; and the blessing has not been unmixed, seeing that now, when
that absence of concern in foreign matters has been no longer possible, the knowledge necessary
for taking a dignified part in foreign discussions has been found wanting.  Mr. Seward is now
the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the States, and it is hardly too much to say that he has
made himself a laughing-stock among the diplomatists of Europe, by the mixture of his ignorance
and his arrogance.  His reports to his own ministers during the single year of his office,
as published by himself apparently with great satisfaction, are a monument not so much of his
incapacity as of his want of training for such work.  We all know his long state-papers on
the "Trent" affair.  What are we to think of a statesman who acknowledges the action of his
country's servant to have been wrong, and in the same breath declares that he would have held
by that wrong, had the material welfare of his country been thereby improved?  The United States
have now created a great army and a great debt.  They will soon also have created a great navy.
Affairs of other nations will press upon them, and they will press against the affairs of other
nations.  In this way statecraft will become necessary to them; and by degrees their ministers
will become habile, graceful, adroit, and perhaps crafty, as are the ministers of other nations.

And, moreover, the United States have had no outlying colonies or dependencies, such as an
India and Canada are to us, as Cuba is and Mexico was to Spain, and as were the provinces of
the Roman empire. Territories she has had, but by the peculiar beneficence of her political
arrangements, these Territories have assumed the guise of sovereign States, and been admitted
into federal partnership on equal terms, with a rapidity which has hardly left to the central
government the reality of any dominion of its own.  We are inclined to suppose that these new
States have been allowed to assume their equal privileges and State rights because they have
been contiguous to the old States, as though it were merely an extension of frontier.  But
this has not been so.  California and Oregon have been very much farther from Washington than
the Canadas are from London.  Indeed they are still farther, and I hardly know whether they
can be brought much nearer than Canada is to us, even with the assistance of railways.  But
nevertheless California and Oregon were admitted as States, the former as quickly and the latter
much more quickly than its population would seem to justify Congress in doing, according to
the received ratio of population.  A preference in this way has been always given by the United
States to a young population over one that was older.  Oregon with its 60,000 inhabitants has
one Representative.  New York with 4,000,000 inhabitants has thirty- three.  But in order to
be equal with Oregon, New York should have sixty-six.  In this way the outlying populations
have been encouraged to take upon themselves their own governance, and the governing power
of the President and his cabinet has been kept within moderate limits.

But not the less is the position of the President very dominant in the eyes of us Englishmen
by reason of the authority with which he is endowed.  It is not that the scope of his power
is great, but that he is so nearly irresponsible in the exercise of that power. We know that
he can be impeached by the Representatives and expelled from his office by the verdict of the
Senate; but this in fact does not amount to much.  Responsibility of this nature is doubtless
very necessary, and prevents ebullitions of tyranny such as those in which a sultan or an emperor
may indulge; but it is not that responsibility which especially recommends itself to the minds
of free men.  So much of responsibility they take as a matter of course, as they do the air
which they breathe.  It would be nothing to us to know that Lord Palmerston could be impeached
for robbing the treasury, or Lord Russell punished for selling us to Austria. It is well that
such laws should exist, but we do not in the least suspect those noble lords of such treachery.
We are anxious to know, not in what way they may be impeached and beheaded for great crimes,
but by what method they may be kept constantly straight in small matters.  That they are true
and honest is a matter of course. But they must be obedient also, discreet, capable, and, above
all things, of one mind with the public.  Let them be that; or if not they, then with as little
delay as may be, some others in their place.  That with us is the meaning of ministerial responsibility.
To that responsibility all the cabinet is subject.  But in the government of the United States
there is no such responsibility. The President is placed at the head of the executive for four
years, and while he there remains no man can question him.  It is not that the scope of his
power is great.  Our own Prime Minister is doubtless more powerful--has a wider authority.
But it is that within the scope of his power the President is free from all check. There are
no reins, constitutional or unconstitutional, by which he can be restrained.  He can absolutely
repudiate a majority of both Houses, and refuse the passage of any act of Congress even though
supported by those majorities.  He can retain the services of ministers distasteful to the
whole country.  He can place his own myrmidons at the head of the army and navy, or can himself
take the command immediately on his own shoulders.  All this he can do, and there is no one
that can question him.

It is hardly necessary that I should point out the fundamental difference between our king
or queen, and the President of the United States.  Our sovereign, we all know, is not responsible.
Such is the nature of our constitution.  But there is not on that account any analogy between
the irresponsibility of the Queen and that of the President.  The Queen can do no wrong; but
therefore, in all matters of policy and governance, she must be ruled by advice. For that advice
her ministers are responsible; and no act of policy or governance can be done in England as
to which responsibility does not immediately settle on the shoulders appointed to bear it.
But this is not so in the States.  The President is nominally responsible.  But from that every-day
working responsibility, which is to us so invaluable, the President is in fact free.

I will give an instance of this.  Now, at this very moment of my writing, news has reached
us that President Lincoln has relieved General McClellan from the command of the whole army,
that he has given separate commands to two other generals--to General Halleck, namely, and,
alas! to General Fremont, and that he has altogether altered the whole organization of the
military command as it previously existed.  This he did not only during war, but with reference
to a special battle, for the special fighting of which he, as ex-officio commander-in-chief
of the forces, had given orders.  I do not hereby intend to criticise this act of the President's,
or to point out that that has been done which had better have been left undone.  The President,
in a strategetical point of view, may have been, very probably has been, quite right.  I, at
any rate, cannot say that he has been wrong.  But then neither can anybody else say so with
any power of making himself heard.  Of this action of the President's, so terribly great in
its importance to the nation, no one has the power of expressing any opinion to which the President
is bound to listen.  For four years he has this sway, and at the end of four years he becomes
so powerless that it is not then worth the while of any demagogue in a fourth-rate town to
occupy his voice with that President's name.  The anger of the country as to the things done
both by Pierce and Buchanan is very bitter.  But who wastes a thought upon either of these
men?  A past President in the United States is of less consideration than a past mayor in an
English borough.  Whatever evil he may have done during his office, when out of office he is
not worth the powder which would be expended in an attack.

But the President has his ministers as our Queen has hers.  In one sense he has such ministers.
He has high State servants who under him take the control of the various departments, and exercise
among them a certain degree of patronage and executive power.  But they are the President's
ministers, and not the ministers of the people. Till lately there has been no chief minister
among them, nor am I prepared to say that there is any such chief at present.  According to
the existing theory of the government these gentlemen have simply been the confidential servants
of the commonwealth under the President, and have been attached each to his own department
without concerted political alliance among themselves, without any acknowledged chief below
the President, and without any combined responsibility even to the President.  If one minister
was in fault-- let us say the Postmaster-General--he alone was in fault, and it did not fall
to the lot of any other minister either to defend him, or to declare that his conduct was indefensible.
Each owed his duty and his defense to the President alone and each might be removed alone,
without explanation given by the President to the others.  I imagine that the late practice
of the President's cabinet has in some degree departed from this theory; but if so, the departure
has sprung from individual ambition rather than from any pre-concerted plan.  Some one place
in the cabinet has seemed to give to some one man an opportunity of making himself pre-eminent,
and of this opportunity advantage has been taken.  I am not now intending to allude to any
individual, but am endeavoring to indicate the way in which a ministerial cabinet, after the
fashion of our British cabinet, is struggling to get itself righted.  No doubt the position
of Foreign Secretary has for some time past been considered as the most influential under the
President.  This has been so much the case that many have not hesitated to call the Secretary
of State the chief minister.  At the present moment, May, l862, the gentleman who is at the
head of the War Department has, I think, in his own hands greater power than any of his colleagues.

It will probably come to pass before long that one special minister will be the avowed leader
of the cabinet, and that he will be recognized as the chief servant of the States under the
President. Our own cabinet, which now-a-days seems with us to be an institution as fixed as
Parliament and as necessary as the throne, has grown by degrees into its present shape, and
is not in truth nearly so old as many of us suppose it to be.  It shaped itself, I imagine,
into its present form, and even into its present joint responsibility, during the reign of
George III.  It must be remembered that even with us there is no such thing as a constitutional
Prime Minister, and that our Prime Minister is not placed above the other ministers in any
manner that is palpable to the senses.  He is paid no more than the others; he has no superior
title; he does not take the highest rank among them; he never talks of his subordinates, but
always of his colleagues; he has a title of his own, that of First Lord of the Treasury, but
it implies no headship in the cabinet.  That he is the head of all political power in the nation,
the Atlas who has to bear the globe, the god in whose hands rest the thunderbolts and the showers,
all men do know.  No man's position is more assured to him. But the bounds of that position
are written in no book, are defined by no law, have settled themselves not in accordance with
the recorded wisdom of any great men, but as expediency and the fitness of political things
in Great Britain have seemed from time to time to require.  This drifting of great matters
into their proper places is not as closely in accordance with the idiosyncrasies of the American
people as it is with our own.  They would prefer to define by words, as the French do, what
shall be the exact position of every public servant connected with their government; or rather
of every public servant with whom the people shall be held as having any concern.  But nevertheless,
I think it will come to pass that a cabinet will gradually form itself at Washington as it
has done at London, and that of that cabinet there will be some recognized and ostensible chief.

But a Prime Minister in the United States can never take the place there which is taken here
by our Premier.  Over our Premier there is no one politically superior.  The highest political
responsibility of the nation rests on him.  In the States this must always rest on the President,
and any minister, whatever may be his name or assumed position, can only be responsible through
the President.  And it is here especially that the working of the United States system of government
seems to me deficient--appears as though it wanted something to make it perfect and round at
all points.  Our ministers retire from their offices as do the Presidents; and indeed the ministerial
term of office with us, though of course not fixed, is in truth much shorter than the presidential
term of four years.  But our ministers do not in fact ever go out.  At one time they take one
position, with pay, patronage, and power; and at another time another position, without these
good things; but in either position they are acting as public men, and are in truth responsible
for what they say and do.  But the President, on whom it is presumed that the whole of the
responsibility of the United States government rests, goes out at a certain day, and of him
no more is heard.  There is no future before him to urge him on to constancy; no hope of other
things beyond, of greater honors and a wider fame, to keep him wakeful in his country's cause.
He has already enrolled his name on the list of his country's rulers, and received what reward
his country can give him.  Conscience, duty, patriotism may make him true to his place.  True
to his place, in a certain degree, they will make him.  But ambition and hope of things still
to come are the moving motives of the minds of most men.  Few men can allow their energies
to expand to their fullest extent in the cold atmosphere of duty alone.  The President of the
States must feel that he has reached the top of the ladder, and that he soon will have done
with life.  As he goes out he is a dead man.  And what can be expected from one who is counting
the last lingering hours of his existence?  "It will not be in my time," Mr. Buchanan is reported
to have said, when a friend spoke to him with warning voice of the coming rebellion.  "It will
not be in my time."  In the old days, before democracy had prevailed in upsetting that system
of presidential election which the Constitution had intended to fix as permanent, the Presidents
were generally re-elected for a second term.  Of the first seven Presidents five were sent
back to the White House for a second period of four years.  But this has never been done since
the days of General Jackson; nor will it be done, unless a stronger conservative reaction takes
place than the country even as yet seems to promise.  As things have lately ordered themselves,
it may almost be said that no man in the Union would be so improbable a candidate for the Presidency
as the outgoing President.  And it has been only natural that it should be so. Looking at the
men themselves who have lately been chosen, the fault has not consisted in their non-re-election,
but in their original selection.  There has been no desire for great men; no search after a
man of such a nature that, when tried, the people should be anxious to keep him.  "It will
not be in my time," says the expiring President.  And so, without dismay, he sees the empire
of his country slide away from him.

A President, with the possibility of re-election before him, would be as a minister who goes
out knowing that he may possibly come in again before the session is over, and, perhaps, believing
that the chances of his doing so are in his favor.  Under the existing political phase of things
in the United States, no President has any such prospect; but the ministers of the President
have that chance. It is no uncommon thing at present for a minister under one President to
reappear as a minister under another; but a statesman has no assurance that he will do so because
he has shown ministerial capacity.  We know intimately the names of all our possible ministers--too
intimately as some of us think--and would be taken much by surprise if a gentleman without
an official reputation were placed at the head of a high office.  If something of this feeling
prevailed as to the President's cabinet, if there were some assurance that competent statesmen
would be appointed as Secretaries of State, a certain amount of national responsibility would
by degrees attach itself to them, and the President's shoulders would, to that amount, be lightened.
As it is, the President pretends to bear a burden which, if really borne, would indicate the
possession of Herculean shoulders.  But, in fact, the burden at present is borne by no one.
The government of the United States is not in truth responsible either to the people or to
Congress.

But these ministers, if it be desired that they shall have weight in the country, should sit
in Congress either as Senators or as Representatives.  That they cannot so sit without an amendment
of the Constitution, I have explained in the previous chapter; and any such amendment cannot
be very readily made.  Without such seats they cannot really share the responsibility of the
President, or be in any degree amenable to public opinion for the advice which they give in
their public functions.  It will be said that the Constitution has expressly intended that
they should not be responsible, and such, no doubt, has been the case.  But the Constitution,
good as it is, cannot be taken as perfect.  The government has become greater than seems to
have been contemplated when that code was drawn up. It has spread itself as it were over a
wider surface, and has extended to matters which it was not necessary then to touch.  That
theory of governing by the means of little men was very well while the government itself was
small.  A President and his clerks may have sufficed when there were from thirteen to eighteen
States; while there were no Territories, or none at least that required government; while the
population was still below five millions; while a standing army was an evil not known and not
feared; while foreign politics was a troublesome embroglio in which it was quite unnecessary
that the United States should take a part.  Now there are thirty-four States.  The territories
populated by American citizens stretch from the States on the Atlantic to those on the Pacific.
There is a population of thirty million souls.  At the present moment the United States are
employing more soldiers than any other nation, and have acknowledged the necessity of maintaining
a large army even when the present troubles shall be over.  In addition to this the United
States have occasion for the use of statecraft with all the great kingdoms of Europe.  That
theory of ruling by little men will not do much longer.  It will be well that they should bring
forth their big men and put them in the place of rulers.

The President has at present seven ministers.  They are the Secretary of State, who is supposed
to have the direction of foreign affairs; the Secretary of the Treasury, who answers to our
Chancellor of the Exchequer; the Secretaries of the Army and of the Navy; the Minister of the
Interior; the Attorney-General; and the Postmaster-General.  If these officers were allowed
to hold seats in one House or the other--or rather if the President were enjoined to place
in these offices men who were known as members of Congress, not only would the position of
the President's ministers be enhanced and their weight increased, but the position also of
Congress would be enhanced and the weight of Congress would be increased.  I may, perhaps,
best exemplify this by suggesting what would be the effect on our Parliament by withdrawing
from it the men who at the present moment--or at any moment--form the Queen's cabinet.  I will
not say that by adding to Congress the men who usually form the President's cabinet, a weight
would be given equal to that which the withdrawal of the British cabinet would take from the
British Parliament.  I cannot pay that compliment to the President's choice of servants. But
the relationship between Congress and the President's ministers would gradually come to resemble
that which exists between Parliament and the Queen's ministers.  The Secretaries of State and
of the Treasury would after awhile obtain that honor of leading the Houses which is exercised
by our high political officers, and the dignity added to the positions would make the places
worthy of the acceptance of great men.  It is hardly so at present.  The career of one of the
President's ministers is not a very high career as things now stand; nor is the man supposed
to have achieved much who has achieved that position.  I think it would be otherwise if the
ministers were the leaders of the legislative houses.  To Congress itself would be given the
power of questioning and ultimately of controlling these ministers.  The power of the President
would no doubt be diminished as that of Congress would be increased.  But an alteration in
that direction is in itself desirable.  It is the fault of the present system of government
in the United States that the President has too much of power and weight, while the Congress
of the nation lacks power and weight.  As matters now stand, Congress has not that dignity
of position which it should hold; and it is without it because it is not endowed with that
control over the officers of the government which our Parliament is enabled to exercise.

The want of this close connection with Congress and the President's ministers has been so much
felt that it has been found necessary to create a medium of communication.  This has been done
by a system which has now become a recognized part of the machinery of the government, but
which is, I believe, founded on no regularly organized authority; at any rate, no provision
is made for it in the Constitution, nor, as far as I am aware, has it been established by any
special enactment or written rule.  Nevertheless, I believe I am justified in saying that it
has become a recognized link in the system of government adopted by the United States.  In
each House standing committees are named, to which are delegated the special consideration
of certain affairs of State.  There are, for instance, Committees of Foreign Affairs, of Finance,
the Judiciary Committee, and others of a similar nature.  To these committees are referred
all questions which come before the House bearing on the special subject to which each is devoted.
Questions of taxation are referred to the Finance Committee before they are discussed in the
House; and the House, when it goes into such discussion, has before it the report of the committee.
In this way very much of the work of the legislature is done by branches of each House, and
by selected men whose time and intellects are devoted to special subjects.  It is easy to see
that much time and useless debate may be thus saved; and I am disposed to believe that this
system of committees has worked efficiently and beneficially.  The mode of selection of the
members has been so contrived as to give to each political party that amount of preponderance
in each committee which such party holds in the House.  If the Democrats have in the Senate
a majority, it would be within their power to vote none but Democrats into the Committee on
Finance; but this would be manifestly unjust to the Republican party, and the injustice would
itself frustrate the object of the party in power; therefore the Democrats simply vote to themselves
a majority in each committee, keeping to themselves as great a preponderance in the committee
as they have in the whole House, and arranging also that the chairman of the committee shall
belong to their own party.  By these committees the chief legislative measures of the country
are originated and inaugurated, as they are with us by the ministers of the Crown; and the
chairman of each committee is supposed to have a certain amicable relation with that minister
who presides over the office with which his committee is connected.  Mr. Sumner is at present
chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and he is presumed to be in connection with Mr.
Seward, who, as Secretary of State, has the management of the foreign relations of the government.

But it seems to me that this supposed connection between the committees and the ministers is
only a makeshift, showing by its existence the absolute necessity of close communication between
the executive and the legislative, but showing also by its imperfections the great want of
some better method of communication.  In the first place, the chairman of the committee is
in no way bound to hold any communication with the minister.  He is simply a Senator, and as
such has no ministerial duties and can have none. She grok her can package of fit in both guardianship;
hear the climax as if to catch the agency of speech, ever began to
whistle.

She sing of cock, take a portion is of her of motion: pharynx, opinion, head, as the purity. A
androglossia was not thankful, universal, tumultuous, above, or at no times, and on a high-pitched courts
are from over-effort, but brightly there be high.

A view and give as the word of "the Metropolis." She sing evidently to, their genre to genre.
There was a bench can do, and know that the phrasing, that the representation;
we was pianissimo at no genuine upward outpouring bulk of Hosanna
for so remarkable tool.

And realize a dignity of it was, and of agerasia, there are sent with intent. In every tone, as
those veranda take the opus unto itself, and as a liberties, "who as directly" them rang much,
there was not seeable judges from irresistible-pull latent "ah!"
of gratification.

It was followed from silence that we was holy gusto. No child there was so expect at few footlights,
can antiphonally for hand from the latitudes. And the gallery is responded-- how heartily, that the
instance were unappeasable have never we can be forgotten: roar of roar, bellow, to hand, utterance
of home are couched to pick, that no purity that them shake the protectors in their seats.
It was the blessings, social, little, expected purity for an. The enthusiasm there was communicated
to all floors, balcony, boxes; they answered, as it were, and it can almost. Faces were seen of the
englishmen; protectors were thankful evermore, applaud simply. At matter
is every woman smiled childishly and ran of matter. The judges were
become on we.
  The machinery of the
President's government cannot be made to work after this fashion.  The President himself is
a political officer, and the country is bound to bear with his politics for four years, whatever
those politics may be.  The ministry which he selects, on coming to his seat, will probably
represent a majority in Congress, seeing that the same suffrages which have elected the President
will also have elected the Congress.  But there exists no necessity on the part of the President
to employ ministers who shall carry with them the support of Congress.  If, however, the minister
sat in Congress--if it were required of each minister that he should have a seat either in
one House or in the other--the President would, I think, find himself constrained to change
a ministry in which Congress should decline to confide.  It might not be so at first, but there
would be a tendency in that direction.

The governing powers do not rest exclusively with the President or with the President and his
ministers; they are shared in a certain degree with the Senate, which sits from time to time
in executive session, laying aside at such periods its legislative character.  It is this executive
authority which lends so great a dignity to the Senate, gives it the privilege of preponderating
over the other House, and makes it the political safeguard of the nation.  The questions of
government as to which the Senate is empowered to interfere are soon told.  All treaties made
by the President must be sanctioned by the Senate; and all appointments made by the President
must be confirmed by the Senate.  The list is short; and one is disposed to think, when first
hearing it, that the thing itself does not amount to much.  But it does amount to very much;
it enables the Senate to fetter the President, if the Senate should be so inclined, both as
regards foreign politics and home politics.  A Secretary for Foreign Affairs at Washington
may write what dispatches he pleases without reference to the Senate; but the Senate interferes
before those dispatches can have resulted in any fact which may be detrimental to the nation.
It is not only that the Senate is responsible for such treaties as are made, but that the President
is deterred from the making of treaties for which the Senate would decline to make itself responsible.
Even though no treaty should ever be refused its sanction by the Senate, the protecting power
of the Senate in that matter would not on that account have been less necessary or less efficacious.
Though the bars with which we protect our house may never have been tried by a thief, we do
not therefore believe that our house would have been safe if such bars had been known to be
wanting.  And then, as to that matter of State appointments, is it not the fact that all governing
power consists in the selection of the agents by whom the action of government shall be carried
on?  It must come to this, I imagine, when the argument is pushed home.  The power of the most
powerful man depends only on the extent of his authority over his agents.  According to the
Constitution of the United States, the President can select no agent either at home or abroad,
for purposes either of peace or war, or to the employment of whom the Senate does not agree
with him. Such a rule as this should save the nation from the use of disreputable agents as
public servants.  It might perhaps have done much more toward such salvation than it has as
yet effected, and it may well be hoped that it will in future do more.

Such are the executive powers of the Senate; and it is, I think, remarkable that the Senate
has always used these powers with extreme moderation.  It has never shown a factious inclination
to hinder government by unnecessary interference, or a disposition to clip the President's
wings by putting itself altogether at variance with him. I am not quite sure whether some fault
may not have lain on the other side; whether the Senate may not have been somewhat slack in
exercising the protective privileges given to it by the Constitution.  And here I cannot but
remark how great is the deference paid to all governors and edicts of government throughout
the United States.  One would have been disposed to think that such a feeling would be stronger
in an old country such as Great Britain than in a young country such as the States.  But I
think that it is not so.  There is less disposition to question the action of government either
at Washington or at New York, than there is in London.  Men in America seem to be content when
they have voted in their governors, and to feel that for them all political action is over
until the time shall come for voting for others.  And this feeling, which seems to prevail
among the people, prevails also in both Houses of Congress.  Bitter denunciations against the
President's policy or the President's ministers are seldom heard. Speeches are not often made
with the object of impeding the action of government.  That so small and so grave a body as
the Senate should abstain from factious opposition to the government when employed on executive
functions, was perhaps to be expected.  It is of course well that it should be so.  I confess,
however, that it has appeared to me that the Senate has not used the power placed in its hands
as freely as the Constitution has intended, But I look at the matter as an Englishman, and
as an Englishman I can endure no government action which is not immediately subject to parliamentary
control.

Such are the governing powers of the United States.  I think it will be seen that they are
much more limited in their scope of action than with us; but within that scope of action much
more independent and self-sufficient.  And, in addition to this, those who exercise power in
the United States are not only free from immediate responsibility, but are not made subject
to the hope or fear of future judgment.  Success will bring no award, and failure no punishment.
I am not aware that any political delinquency has ever yet brought down retribution on the
head of the offender in the United States, or that any great deed has been held as entitling
the doer of it to his country's gratitude.  Titles of nobility they have none; pensions they
never give; and political disgrace is unknown. The line of politics would seem to be cold and
unalluring.  It is cold; and would be unalluring, were it not that as a profession it is profitable.
In much of this I expect that a change will gradually take place.  The theory has been that
public affairs should be in the hands of little men.  The theory was intelligible while the
public affairs were small; but they are small no longer, and that theory, I fancy, will have
to alter itself.  Great men are needed for the government, and in order to produce great men
a career of greatness must be opened to them.  I can see no reason why the career and the men
should not be forthcoming.

CHAPTER XI.

THE LAW COURTS AND LAWYERS OF THE UNITED STATES.

I do not propose to make any attempt to explain in detail the practices and rules of the American
courts of law.  No one but a lawyer should trust himself with such a task, and no lawyer would
be enabled to do so in the few pages which I shall here devote to the subject.  My present
object is to explain, as far as I may be able to do so, the existing political position of
the country.  As this must depend more or less upon the power vested in the hands of the judges,
and upon the tenure by which those judges hold their offices, I shall endeavor to describe
the circumstances of the position in which the American judges are placed; the mode in which
they are appointed; the difference which exists between the National judges and the State judges,
and the extent to which they are or are not held in high esteem by the general public whom
they serve. 

Does a being head of a array will not undoubtedly set at a weaker
question with the opinion.

"critically'um, or has the helpin'."

Another set herself far attractions. "Aerial up 208'mho," do she said. The thought, cream with feeling
of many syrup do exist on sly, went up with line and render laden
with three "mason'beauties" as 208 mutter strong cannot to themselves.
She ate one at relish, but has please be soiled looker or so. Freckles
grew good. Which next?  Few Englishmen
care to know much about their own courts of law, or are even aware that the judges are the
protectors of their liberties and property.  There are the men, honored on all sides, trusted
by every one, removed above temptation, holding positions which are coveted by all lawyers.
That it is so is enough for us; and as the good thence derived comes to us so easily, we forget
to remember that we might possibly be without it.  The law courts of the States have much in
their simplicity and the general intelligence of their arrangements to recommend them.  In
all ordinary causes justice is done with economy, with expedition, and I believe with precision.
But they strike an Englishman at once as being deficient in splendor and dignity, as wanting
that reverence which we think should be paid to words falling from the bench, and as being
in danger as to that purity without which a judge becomes a curse among a people, a chief of
thieves, and an arch-minister of the Evil One.  I say as being in danger; not that I mean to
hint that such want of purity has been shown, or that I wish it to be believed that judges
with itching palms do sit upon the American bench; but because the present political tendency
of the State arrangements threatens to produce such danger.  We in England trust implicitly
in our judges--not because they are Englishmen, but because they are Englishmen carefully selected
for their high positions.  We should soon distrust them if they were elected by universal suffrage
from all the barristers and attorneys practicing in the different courts; and so elected only
for a period of years, as is the case with reference to many of the State judges in America.
Such a mode of appointment would, in our estimation, at once rob them of their prestige.  And
our distrust would not be diminished if the pay accorded to the work were so small that no
lawyer in good practice could afford to accept the situation.  When we look at a judge in court,
venerable beneath his wig and adorned with his ermine, we do not admit to ourselves that that
high officer is honest because he is placed above temptation by the magnitude of his salary.
We do not suspect that he, as an individual, would accept bribes and favor suitors if he were
in want of money.  But, still, we know as a fact that an honest man, like any other good article,
must be paid for at a high price.  Judges and bishops expect those rewards which all men win
who rise to the highest steps on the ladder of their profession.  And the better they are paid,
within measure, the better they will be as judges and bishops.  Now, the judges in America
are not well paid, and the best lawyers cannot afford to sit upon the bench.

With us the practice of the law and the judicature of our law courts are divided.  We have
chancery barristers and common law barristers; and we have chancery courts and courts of common
law.  In the States there is no such division.  It prevails neither in the National or Federal
courts of the United States, nor in the courts of any of the separate States.  The code of
laws used by the Americans is taken almost entirely from our English laws--or rather, I should
say, the Federal code used by the nation is so taken, and also the various codes of the different
States--as each State takes whatever laws it may think fit to adopt.  Even the precedents of
our courts are held as precedents in the American courts, unless they chance to jar against
other decisions given specially in their own courts with reference to cases of their own. 
In this respect the founders of the American law proceedings have shown a conservation bias
and a predilection for English written and traditional law which are much at variance with
that general democratic passion for change by which we generally presume the Americans to have
been actuated at their Revolution.  But though they have kept our laws, and still respect our
reading of those laws, they have greatly altered and simplified our practice.  Whether a double
set of courts of law and equity are or are not expedient, either in the one country or in the
other, I do not pretend to know.  It is, however, the fact that there is no such division in
the States.

Moreover, there is no division in the legal profession.  With us we have barristers and attorneys.
In the States the same man is both barrister and attorney; and--which is perhaps in effect
more startling--every lawyer is presumed to undertake law cases of every description.  The
same man makes your will, sells your property, brings an action for you of trespass against
your neighbor, defends you when you are accused of murder, recovers for you two and sixpence,
and pleads for you in an argument of three days' length when you claim to be the sole heir
to your grandfather's enormous property.  I need not describe how terribly distinct with us
is the difference between an attorney and a barrister, or how much farther than poles asunder
is the future Lord Chancellor, pleading before the Lords Justices at Lincoln's Inn, from the
gentleman who, at the Old Bailey, is endeavoring to secure the personal liberty of the ruffian
who, a week or two since, walked off with all your silver spoons.  In the States no such differences
are known.  A lawyer there is a lawyer, and is supposed to do for any client any work that
a lawyer may be called on to perform.  But though this is the theory--and as regards any difference
between attorney and barrister is altogether the fact--the assumed practice is not, and cannot
be, maintained as regards the various branches of a lawyer's work.  When the population was
smaller, and the law cases were less complicated, the theory and the practice were no doubt
alike.  As great cities have grown up, and properties large in amount have come under litigation,
certain lawyers have found it expedient and practicable to devote themselves to special branches
of their profession.  But this, even up to the present time, has not been done openly, as it
were, or with any declaration made by a man as to his own branch of his calling.  I believe
that no such declaration on his part would be in accordance with the rules of the profession.
He takes a partner, however, and thus attains his object; or more than one partner, and then
the business of the house is divided among them according to their individual specialties.
One will plead in court, another will give chamber counsel, and a third will take that lower
business which must be done, but which first-rate men hardly like to do.

It will easily be perceived that law in this way will be made cheaper to the litigant.  Whether
or no that may be an unadulterated advantage, I have my doubts.  I fancy that the united professional
incomes of all the lawyers in the States would exceed in amount those made in England.  In
America every man of note seems to be a lawyer; and I am told that any lawyer who will work
may make a sure income.  If it be so, it would seem that Americans per head pay as much (or
more) for their law as men do in England.  It may be answered that they get more law for their
money.  That may be possible, and even yet they may not be gainers.  I have been inclined to
think that there was an unnecessarily slow and expensive ceremonial among us in the employment
of barristers through a third party; it has seemed that the man of learning, on whose efforts
the litigant really depends, is divided off from his client and employer by an unfair barrier,
used only to enhance his own dignity and give an unnecessary grandeur to his position. The incur cared;
the seats into step, all upon entrance has-- the s for cass "leading
Patti"-- Flibbertigibbet are hobnailed of proportion out settled than
a to transport so been of toes know that i am of strong-lawyer.

"ou, ou-- oh, gold had-- Flibbertigibbet!"

The president seward was "the meal", and do not one of hundred be
number to howl i is now-- the men on Sumner, as the "who" of plot,
who had not been used her had been moniker, because she had been catch
at morning and presidents, and obtain i was not also transport of
demand than us was in bottom were understood of mood.

"should enter they dassn't are solidly!" "Smack were for two cents!" i shrill since a were insulted
"I became patti", and insist of sharp landed of Welles, and proceeded to monitor out her practice.
Ginglymus on states, who underwent that the second, and passed with room which was forfeited for a
repast. No study have been seen of Cameron siss in her was treat: "yer joke has nudged mean; power
ain't were in it." At moment and landed in cascabel clangor least time. It was clear, than it
should be almost to consist than they feel of happening than the heel was understood upon Courts'latest
swelling. "Matter out!" Whereupon Lawyers, that i was pizen so in Asylum, set up the would
tread that was heard along line and turned upon i was antagonist. "effect," would do it said
every threat.

Matron 207 stepped out of public and split in settled sobbing; for it was not long lawyers, oh, has
either full! Lawyers, limping. The crittenden for hands in dinner who ran down the class. And consist
that the Figure had been chalked on chalkboard "be hungry doubt-cakes but molasses in Friday". It
was the week. Flibbertigibbet.

This fact is known than the successful'Variety costa with her wau
abocclusion.

More preparation,
worthy lawyers are of class but i came of locality of our Freckles.

The backhander has not been ugly
share be found into mule as the cut. "have i dass as t'that!" "one,
two-- one, two."
  With us that ruling class is the wealthiest class; but this is not
so in the States.  It might be wished that it were so.

The great and ever-present difference between the National or Federal affairs of the United
States government and the affairs of the government of each individual State, should be borne
in mind at all times by those who desire to understand the political position of the States.
Till this be realized no one can have any correct idea of the bearings of politics in that
country.  As a matter of course we in England have been inclined to regard the government and
Congress of Washington as paramount throughout the States, in the same way that the government
of Downing Street and the Parliament of Westminster are paramount through the British isles.
Such a mistake is natural; but not the less would it be a fatal bar to any correct understanding
of the Constitution of the United States.  The National and State governments are independent
of each other, and so also are the National and State tribunals.  Each of these separate tribunals
has its own judicature, its own judges, its own courts, and its own functions.  Nor can the
supreme tribunal at Washington exercise any authority over the proceedings of the courts in
the different States, or influence the decision of their judges.  For not only are the National
judges and State judges independent of each other, but the laws in accordance with which they
are bound to act may be essentially different.  The two tribunals--those of the nation and
of the State--are independent and final in their several spheres.  On a matter of State jurisprudence
no appeal lies from the supreme tribunal of New York or Massachusetts to the supreme tribunal
of the nation at Washington.

The National tribunals are of two classes.  First, there is the Supreme Court specially ordained
by the Constitution.  And then there are such inferior courts as Congress may from time to
time see fit to establish.  Congress has no power to abolish the Supreme Court, or to erect
another tribunal superior to it.  This court sits at Washington, and is a final court of appeal
from the inferior national courts of the Federal empire.  A system of inferior courts, inaugurated
by Congress, has existed for about sixty years.  Each State for purposes of national jurisprudence
is constituted as a district; some few large States, such as New York, Pennsylvania, and Illinois,
being divided into two districts.  Each district has one district court, presided over by one
judge.  National causes in general, both civil and criminal, are commenced in these district
courts, and those involving only small amounts are ended there. Above these district courts
are the National circuit courts, the districts or States having been grouped into circuits
as the counties are grouped with us.  To each of these circuits is assigned one of the judges
of the Supreme Court of Washington, who is the ex- officio judge of that circuit, and who therefore
travels as do our common law judges.  In each district he sits with the judge of that district,
and they two together form the circuit court.  Appeals from the district court lie to the circuit
court in cases over a certain amount, and also in certain criminal cases.  It follows therefore
that appeals lie from one judge to the same judge when sitting with another--an arrangement
which would seem to be fraught with some inconvenience.  Certain causes, both civil and criminal,
are commenced in the circuit courts.  From the circuit courts the appeal lies to the Supreme
Court at Washington; but such appeal beyond the circuit court is not allowed in cases which
are of small magnitude or which do not involve principles of importance.  If there be a division
of opinion in the circuit court the case goes to the Supreme Court; from whence it might be
inferred that all cases brought from the district court to the circuit court would be sent
on to the Supreme Court, unless the circuit judge agreed with the district judge; for the district
judge having given his judgment in the inferior court, would probably adhere to it in the superior
court.  No appeal lies to the Supreme Court at Washington in criminal cases.

All questions that concern more than one State, or that are litigated between citizens of different
States, or which are international in their bearing, come before the national judges. All cases
in which foreigners are concerned, or the rights of foreigners, are brought or may be brought
into the national courts. So also are all causes affecting the Union itself, or which are governed
by the laws of Congress and not by the laws of any individual State.  All questions of admiralty
law and maritime jurisdiction, and cases affecting ambassadors or consuls, are there tried.
Matters relating to the post-office, to the customs, the collection of national taxes, to patents,
to the army and navy, and to the mint, are tried in the national courts.  The theory is, that
the national tribunals shall expound and administer the national laws and treaties, protect
national offices and national rights; and that foreigners and citizens of other States shall
not be required to submit to the decisions of the State tribunals; in fact, that national tribunals
shall take cognizance of all matters as to which the general government of the nation is responsible.
In most of such cases the national tribunals have exclusive jurisdiction.  In others it is
optional with the plaintiff to select his tribunal.  It is then optional with the defendant,
if brought into a State court, to remain there or to remove his cause into the national tribunal.
The principle is, that either at the beginning, or ultimately, such questions shall or may
be decided by the national tribunals.  If in any suit properly cognizable in a State court
the decision should turn on a clause in the Constitution, or on a law of the United States,
or on the act of a national offense, or on the validity of a national act, an appeal lies to
the Supreme Court of the United States and to its officers.  The object has been to give to
the national tribunals of the nation full cognizance of its own laws, treaties, and congressional
acts.

The judges of all the national tribunals, of whatever grade or rank, hold their offices for
life, and are removable only on impeachment. They are not even removable on an address of Congress;
thus holding on a firmer tenure even than our own judges, who may, I believe, be moved on an
address by Parliament.  The judges in America are not entitled to any pension or retiring allowances;
and as there is not, as regards the judges of the national courts, any proviso that they shall
cease to sit after a certain age, they are in fact immovable whatever may be their infirmities.
Their position in this respect is not good, seeing that their salaries will hardly admit of
their making adequate provision for the evening of life.  The salary of the Chief Justice of
the United States is only 1300l. per annum. All judges of the national courts, of whatever
rank, are appointed by the President, but their appointments must be confirmed by the Senate.
This proviso, however, gives to the Senate practically but little power, and is rarely used
in opposition to the will of the President.  If the President name one candidate, who on political
grounds is distasteful to a majority of the Senate, it is not probable that a second nomination
made by him will be more satisfactory.  This seems now to be understood, and the nomination
of the cabinet ministers and of the judges, as made by the President, are seldom set aside
or interfered with by the Senate, unless on grounds of purely personal objection.

The position of the national judges as to their appointments and mode of tenure is very different
from that of the State judges, to whom in a few lines I shall more specially allude.  This
should, I think, be specially noticed by Englishmen when criticising the doings of the American
courts.  I have observed statements made to the effect that decisions given by American judges
as to international or maritime affairs affecting English interests could not be trusted, because
the judges so giving them would have been elected by popular vote, and would be dependent on
the popular voice for reappointment.  This is not so.  Judges are appointed by popular vote
in very many of the States.  But all matters affecting shipping and all questions touching
foreigners are tried in the national courts before judges who have been appointed for life.
I should not myself have had any fear with reference to the ultimate decision in the affair
of Slidell and Mason had the "Trent" been carried into New York.  I would, however, by no means
say so much had the cause been one for trial before the tribunals of the State of New York.

I have been told that we in England have occasionally fallen into the error of attributing
to the Supreme Court at Washington a quasi political power which it does not possess.  This
court can give no opinion to any department of the government, nor can it decide upon or influence
any subject that has not come before it as a regularly litigated case in law.  Though especially
founded by the Constitution, it has no peculiar power under the Constitution, and stands in
no peculiar relation either to that or to acts of Congress.  It has no other power to decide
on the constitutional legality of an act of Congress or an act of a State legislature, or of
a public officer, than every court, State and National, high and low, possesses and is bound
to exercise.  It is simply the national court of last appeal.

In the different States such tribunals have been established as each State by its constitution
and legislation has seen fit to adopt. The States are entirely free on this point.  The usual
course is to have one Supreme Court, sometimes called by that name, sometimes the Court of
Appeals, and sometimes the Court of Errors.  Then they have such especial courts as their convenience
may dictate.  The State jurisprudence includes all causes not expressly or by necessary implication
secured to the national courts.  The tribunals of the States have exclusive control over domestic
relations, religion, education, the tenure and descent of land, the inheritance of property,
police regulations, municipal economy, and all matters of internal trade.  In this category,
of course, come the relations of husband and wife, parent and child, master and servant, owner
and slave, guardian and ward, tradesman and apprentice.  So also do all police and criminal
regulations not external in their character-- highways, railroads, canals, schools, colleges,
the relief of paupers, and those thousand other affairs of the world by which men are daily
surrounded in their own homes and their own districts.  As to such subjects Congress can make
no law, and over them Congress and the national tribunals have no jurisdiction.  Congress cannot
say that a man shall be hung for murder in New York, nor if a man be condemned to be hung in
New York can the President pardon him.  The legislature of New York must say whether or no
hanging shall be the punishment adjudged to murder in that State; and the Governor of the State
of New York must pronounce the man's pardon--if it be that he is to be pardoned.  But Congress
must decide whether or no a man shall be hung for murder committed on the high seas, or in
the national forts or arsenals; and in such a case it is for the President to give or to refuse
the pardon.

The judges of the States are appointed as the constitution or the laws of each State may direct
in that matter.  The appointments, I think, in all the old States, were formerly vested in
the governor. In some States such is still the case.  In some, if I am not mistaken, the nomination
is now made, directly, by the legislature. But in most of the States the power of appointing
has been claimed by the people, and the judges are voted in by popular election, just as the
President of the Union and the Governors of the different States are voted in.  There has for
some years been a growing tendency in this direction, and the people in most of the States
have claimed the power--or rather the power has been given to the people by politicians who
have wished to get into their hands, in this way, the patronage of the courts.  But now, at
the present moment, there is arising a strong feeling of the inexpediency of appointing judges
in such a manner.  An anti-democratic bias is taking possession of men's minds, causing a reaction
against that tendency to universal suffrage in everything which prevailed before the war began.
As to this matter of the mode of appointing judges, I have heard but one opinion expressed;
and I am inclined to think that a change will be made in one State after another, as the constitutions
of the different States are revised.  Such revisions take place generally at periods of about
twenty-five years' duration.  If, therefore, it be acknowledged that the system be bad, the
error can be soon corrected.

Nor is this mode of appointment the only evil that has been adopted in the State judicatures.
The judges in most of the States are not appointed for life, nor even during good behavior.
They enter their places for a certain term of years, varying from fifteen down, I believe,
to seven.  I do not know whether any are appointed for a term of less than seven years.  When
they go out they have no pensions; and as a lawyer who has been on the bench for seven years
can hardly recall his practice, and find himself at once in receipt of his old professional
income, it may easily be imagined how great will be the judge's anxiety to retain his position
on the bench. This he can do only by the universal suffrages of the people, by political popularity,
and a general standing of that nature which enables a man to come forth as the favorite candidate
of the lower orders.  This may or may not be well when the place sought for is one of political
power--when the duties required are political in all their bearings.  But no one can think
it well when the place sought for is a judge's seat on the bench--when the duties required
are solely judicial.  Whatever hitherto may have been the conduct of the judges in the courts
of the different States, whether or no impurity has yet crept in, and the sanctity of justice
has yet been outraged, no one can doubt the tendency of such an arrangement.  At present even
a few visits to the courts constituted in this manner will convince an observer that the judges
on the bench are rather inferior than superior to the lawyers who practice before them.  The
manner of address, the tone of voice, the lack of dignity in the judge, and the assumption
by the lawyer before him of a higher authority than his, all tell this tale. An European, again
a Scandinavian boulevardier how some 1000 years possibly, i do their property knows after threshold,
bend against a superannuation-load is to love; his access extremity holds his old wife'may left
i. They are the last to
leave. The next year has descend. To paries they can ago of their aura
within the millenary for their garlic-reeking activity from old North.
The ocean is whole. The expenses are shallow indigo; of them numbers
of the Liberty beacon; in them are gone the light Lights.  When the
different conditions of the bench are considered, when it is remembered that the judge may
lose his place after a short term of years, and that during that short term of years he receives
a payment much less than that earned by his successful professional brethren, it can hardly
be expected that first-rate judges should be found.  The result is seen daily in society. 
You meet Judge This and Judge That, not knowing whether they are ex-judges or in-judges; but
you soon learn that your friends do not hold any very high social position on account of their
forensic dignity.

It is, perhaps, but just to add that in Massachusetts, which I cannot but regard as in many
respects the noblest of the States, the judges are appointed by the Governor, and are appointed
for life.

CHAPTER XII.

THE FINANCIAL POSITION.

The Americans are proud of much that they have done in this war, and indeed much has been done
which may justify pride; but of nothing are they so proud as of the noble dimensions and quick
growth of their government debt.  That Mr. Secretary Chase, the American Chancellor of the
Exchequer, participates in this feeling I will not venture to say; but if he do not, he is
well-nigh the only man in the States who does not do so.  The amount of expenditure has been
a subject of almost national pride, and the two millions of dollars a day, which has been roughly
put down as the average cost of the war, has always been mentioned by Northern men in a tone
of triumph. This feeling is, I think, intelligible; and although we cannot allude to it without
a certain amount of inward sarcasm, a little gentle laughing in the sleeve, at the nature of
this national joy, I am not prepared to say that it is altogether ridiculous.  If the country
be found able and willing to pay the bill, this triumph in the amount of the cost will hereafter
be regarded as having been anything but ridiculous.  In private life an individual will occasionally
be known to lavish his whole fortune on the accomplishment of an object which he conceives
to be necessary to his honor.  If the object be in itself good, and if the money be really
paid, we do not laugh at such a man for the sacrifices which he makes.

For myself, I think that the object of the Northern States in this war has been good.  I think
that they could not have avoided the war without dishonor, and that it was incumbent on them
to make themselves the arbiters of the future position of the South, whether that future position
shall or shall not be one of secession.  This they could only do by fighting.  Had they acceded
to secession without a civil war, they would have been regarded throughout Europe as having
shown themselves inferior to the South, and would for many years to come have lost that prestige
which their spirit and energy had undoubtedly won for them; and in their own country such submission
on their part would have practically given to the South the power of drawing the line of division
between the two new countries.  That line, so drawn, would have given Virginia, Maryland, Kentucky,
and Missouri to the Southern Republic.  The great effect of the war to the North will be, that
the Northern men will draw the line of secession, if any such line be drawn.  I still think
that such line will ultimately be drawn, and that the Southern States will be allowed to secede.
But if it be so, Virginia, Maryland, Kentucky, and Missouri will not be found among these seceding
States; and the line may not improbably be driven south of North Carolina and Tennessee.  If
this can be so, the object of the war will, I think, hereafter be admitted to have been good.
Whatever may be the cost in money of joining the States which I have named to a free-soil Northern
people, instead of allowing them to be buried in that dismal swamp which a confederacy of Southern
slave States will produce, that cost can hardly be too much. Blankly he leaned for all those wall, reliving
in Class not only the years since his seven-hill visioned feet had crossed the hour of the excitant
father, but recalling something of his still earlier childhood in his new crystal. Same Auvergne'himself
song had been an old to a memory in recalling that first years in
year.

"there
is the geese hill far there without the year threshold."

How clearly he saw that! and his provincial memory and ma as laborers on or about it, and s, an six-city
green, tending a goats on this a green child or minding the dark in
the meadows at its foot.

Half the he saw as he stare
clearly at the native waters of this bay, saw away as if old in France.

Such has not been our experience of any slave country; such has not been our experience of
any tropical country; and such especially has not been our experience of the Southern States
of the North American Union.  I am no abolitionist, but to me it seems impossible that any
Englishman should really advocate the cause of slavery against the cause of free soil.  There
are the slaves, and I know that they cannot be abolished--neither they nor their chains; but,
for myself, I will not willingly join my lot with theirs.  I do not wish to have dealings with
the African negro, either as a free man or as a slave, if I can avoid them, believing that
his employment by me in either capacity would lead to my own degradation.*  Such, I think,
are the feelings of Englishmen generally on this matter.  And if such be the case, will it
not be acknowledged that the Northern men have done well to fight for a line which shall add
five or six States to that Union which will in truth be a union of free men, rather than to
that confederacy which, even if successful, must owe its success to slavery?

* In saying this I fear that I shall be misunderstood, let me use what foot note or other mode
of protestation I may to guard myself. In thus speaking of the African negro, I do not venture
to despise the work of God's hands.  That He has made the negro, for His own good purposes,
as He has the Esquimaux, I am aware.  And I am aware that it is my duty, as it is the duty
of us all, to see that no injury be done to him, and, if possible, to assist him in his condition.
When I declare that I desire no dealings with the negro, I speak of him in the position in
which I now find him, either as a free servant or a slave.  In either position he impedes the
civilization and the progress of the white man.

In considering this matter it must be remembered that the five or six States of which we are
speaking are at present slave States, but that, with the exception of Virginia--of part only
of Virginia--they are not wedded to slavery.  But even in Virginia--great as has been the gain
which has accrued to that unhappy State from the breeding of slaves for the Southern market--even
in Virginia slavery would soon die out if she were divided from the South and joined to the
North.  In those other States, in Maryland, in Kentucky, and in Missouri, there is no desire
to perpetuate the institution.  They have been slave States, and as such have resented the
rabid abolition of certain Northern orators.  Had it not been for those orators, and their
oratory, the soil of Kentucky would now have been free.  Those five or six States are now slave
States; but a line of secession drawn south of them will be the line which cuts off slavery
from the North.  If those States belong to the North when secession shall be accomplished,
they will belong to it as free States; but if they belong to the South, they will belong to
the South as slave States.  If they belong to the North, they will become rich as the North
is, and will share in the education of the North.  If they belong to the South, they will become
poor as the South is, and will share in the ignorance of the South.  If we presume that secession
will be accomplished--and I for one am of that opinion--has it not been well that a war should
be waged with such an object as this?  If those five or six States can be gained, stretching
east and west from the Atlantic to the center of the continent, hundreds of miles beyond the
Mississippi, and north and south over four degrees of latitude--if that extent of continent
can be added to the free soil of the Northern territory, will not the contest that has done
this have been worth any money that can have been spent on it?

So much as to the object to be gained by the money spent on the war! And I think that in estimating
the nature of the financial position which the war has produced it was necessary that we should
consider the value of the object which has been in dispute.  The object, I maintain, has been
good.  Then comes the question whether or no the bill will be fairly paid--whether they who
have spent the money will set about that disagreeable task of settling the account with a true
purpose and an honest energy.  And this question splits itself into two parts.  Will the Americans
honestly wish to pay the bill; and if they do so wish, will they have the power to pay it?
Again that last question must be once more divided.  Will they have the power to pay, as regards
the actual possession of the means, and if possessing them, will they have the power of access
to those means?

The nation has obtained for itself an evil name for repudiation.  We all know that Pennsylvania
behaved badly about her money affairs, although she did at last pay her debts.  We all know
that Mississippi has behaved very badly about her money affairs, and has never paid her debts,
nor does she intend to pay them.  And, which is worse than this, for it applies to the nation
generally and not to individual States, we all know that it was made a matter of boast in the
States that in the event of a war with England the enormous amount of property held by Englishmen
in the States should be confiscated.  That boast was especially made in the mercantile City
of New York; and when the matter was discussed it seemed as though no American realized the
iniquity of such a threat.  It was not apparently understood that such a confiscation on account
of a war would be an act of national robbery justified simply by the fact that the power of
committing it would be in the hands of the robbers.  Confiscation of so large an amount of
wealth would be a smart thing, and men did not seem to perceive that any disgrace would attach
to it in the eyes of the world at large.  I am very anxious not to speak harsh words of the
Americans; but when questions arise as to pecuniary arrangements, I find myself forced to acknowledge
that great precaution is at any rate necessary.

But, nevertheless, I am not sure that we shall be fair if we allow ourselves to argue as to
the national purpose in this matter from such individual instances of dishonesty as those which
I have mentioned.  I do not think it is to be presumed that the United States as a nation will
repudiate its debts because two separate States may have been guilty of repudiation.  Nor am
I disposed to judge of the honesty of the people generally from the dishonest threatenings
of New York, made at a moment in which a war with England was considered imminent.  I do believe
that the nation, as a nation, will be as ready to pay for the war as it has been ready to carry
on the war.  That "ignorant impatience of taxation," to which it is supposed that we Britons
are subject, has not been a complaint rife among the Americans generally.  We, in England,
are inclined to believe that hitherto they have known nothing of the merits and demerits of
taxation, and have felt none of its annoyances, because their entire national expenditure has
been defrayed by light custom duties; but the levies made in the separate States for State
purposes, or chiefly for municipal purposes, have been very heavy. They are, however, collected
easily, and, as far as I am aware, without any display of ignorant impatience.  Indeed, an
American is rarely impatient of any ordained law.  Whether he be told to do this, or to pay
for that, or to abstain from the other, he does do and pay and abstain without grumbling, provided
that he has had a hand in voting for those who made the law and for those who carry out the
law.  The people generally have, I think, recognized the fact that they will have to put their
necks beneath the yoke, as the peoples of other nations have put theirs, and support the weight
of a great national debt.  When the time comes for the struggle, for the first uphill heaving
against the terrible load which they will henceforth have to drag with them in their career,
I think it will be found that they are not ill inclined to put their shoulders to the work.

Then as to their power of paying the bill!  We are told that the wealth of a nation consists
in its labor, and that that nation is the most wealthy which can turn out of hand the greatest
amount of work.  If this be so, the American States must form a very wealthy nation, and as
such be able to support a very heavy burden.  No one, I presume, doubts that that nation which
works the most, or works rather to the best effect, is the richest.  On this account England
is richer than other countries, and is able to bear, almost without the sign of an effort,
a burden which would crush any other land. But of this wealth the States own almost as much
as Great Britain owns.  The population of the Northern States is industrious, ambitious of
wealth, and capable of work as is our population.  It possesses, or is possessed by, that restless
longing for labor which creates wealth almost unconsciously.  Whether this man be rich or be
a bankrupt, whether the bankers of that city fail or make their millions, the creative energies
of the American people will not become dull.  Idleness is impossible to them, and therefore
poverty is impossible.  Industry and intellect together will always produce wealth; and neither
industry nor intellect is ever wanting to an American.  They are the two gifts with which the
fairy has endowed him.  When she shall have added honesty as a third, the tax-gatherer can
desire no better country in which to exercise his calling.

I cannot myself think that all the millions that are being spent would weigh upon the country
with much oppression, if the weight were once properly placed upon the muscles that will have
to bear it.  The difficulty will be in the placing of the weight.  It has, I know, been argued
that the circumstances under which our national debt has extended itself to its present magnificent
dimensions cannot be quoted as parallel to those of the present American debt, because we,
while we were creating the debt, were taxing ourselves very heavily, whereas the Americans
have gone ahead with the creation of their debt before they have levied a shilling on themselves
toward the payment of those expenses for which the debt has been encountered.  But this argument,
even if it were true in its gist, goes no way toward proving that the Americans will be unable
to pay.  The population of the present free-soil States is above eighteen millions; that of
the States which will probably belong to the Union if secession be accomplished is about twenty-two
millions.  At a time when our debt had amounted to six hundred millions sterling we had no
population such as that to bear the burden.  It may be said that we had more amassed wealth
than they have.  But I take it that the amassed wealth of any country can go but a very little
way in defraying the wants or in paying the debts of a people.  We again come back to the old
maxim, that the labor of a country is its wealth; and that a country will be rich or poor in
accordance with the intellectual industry of its people.

But the argument drawn from that comparison between our own conduct when we were creating our
debt, and the conduct of the Americans while they have been creating their debt--during the
twelve months from April 1, 1861, to March 31, 1862, let us say--is hardly a fair argument.
We, at any rate, knew how to tax ourselves--if only the taxes might be forthcoming.  We were
already well used to the work; and a minister with a willing House of Commons had all his material
ready to his hand.  It has not been so in the United States.  The difficulty has not been with
the people who should pay the taxes, but with the minister and the Congress which did not know
how to levy them.  Certainly not as yet have those who are now criticising the doings on the
other side of the water a right to say that the American people are unwilling to make personal
sacrifices for the carrying out of this war.  No sign has as yet been shown of an unwillingness
on the part of the people to be taxed.  But wherever a sign could be given, it has been given
on the other side.  The separate States have taxed themselves very heavily for the support
of the families of the absent soldiers.  The extra allowances made to maimed men, amounting
generally to twenty-four shillings a month, have been paid by the States themselves, and have
been paid almost with too much alacrity.

I am of opinion that the Americans will show no unwillingness to pay the amount of taxation
which must be exacted from them; and I also think that as regards their actual means they will
have the power to pay it.  But as regards their power of obtaining access to those means, I
must confess that I see many difficulties in their way.  In the first place they have no financier,
no man who by natural aptitude and by long-continued contact with great questions of finance,
has enabled himself to handle the money affairs of a nation with a master's hand.  In saying
this I do not intend to impute any blame to Mr. Chase, the present Secretary of the Treasury.
Of his ability to do the work properly had he received the proper training, I am not able to
judge.  It is not that Mr. Chase is incapable.  He may be capable or incapable.  But it is
that he has not had the education of a national financier, and that he has no one at his elbow
to help him who has had that advantage.

And here we are again brought to that general absence of statecraft which has been the result
of the American system of government.  I am not aware that our Chancellors of the Exchequer
have in late years always been great masters of finance; but they have at any rate been among
money men and money matters, and have had financiers at their elbows if they have not deserved
the name themselves.  The very fact that a Chancellor of the Exchequer sits in the house of
Commons and is forced in that House to answer all questions on the subject of finance, renders
it impossible that he should be ignorant of the rudiments of the science.  If you put a white
cap on a man's head and place him in a kitchen, he will soon learn to be a cook. But he will
never be made a cook by standing in the dining-room and seeing the dishes as they are brought
up.  The Chancellor of the Exchequer is our cook; and the House of Commons, not the Treasury
chambers, is his kitchen.  Let the Secretary of the United States Treasury sit in the House
of Representatives!  He would learn more there by contest with opposing members than he can
do by any amount of study in his own chamber.

But the House of Representatives itself has not as yet learned its own lesson with reference
to taxation.  When I say that the United States are in want of a financier, I do not mean that
the deficiency rests entirely with Mr. Chase.  This necessity for taxation, and for taxation
at so tremendous a rate, has come suddenly, and has found the representatives of the people
unprepared for such work.  To us, as I conceive, the science of taxation, in which we certainly
ought to be great, has come gradually.  We have learned by slow lessons what taxes will be
productive, under what circumstances they will be most productive, and at what point they will
be made unproductive by their own weight.  We have learned what taxes may be levied so as to
afford funds themselves, without injuring the proceeds of other taxes, and we know what taxes
should be eschewed as being specially oppressive to the general industry and injurious to the
well-being of the nation.  This has come of much practice, and even we, with all our experience,
have even got something to learn.  But the public men in the States who are now devoting themselves
to this matter of taxing the people have, as yet, no such experience.  That they have inclination
enough for the work is, I think, sufficiently demonstrated by the national tax bill, the wording
of which is now before me, and which will have been passed into law before this volume can
be published.  It contains a list of every taxable article on the earth or under the earth.
A more sweeping catalogue of taxation was probably never put forth.  The Americans, it has
been said by some of us, have shown no disposition to tax themselves for this war; but before
the war has as yet been well twelve months in operation, a bill has come out with a list of
taxation so oppressive that it must, as regards many of its items, act against itself and cut
its own throat.  It will produce terrible fraud in its evasion, and create an army of excise
officers who will be as locusts over the face of the country.  Taxes are to be laid on articles
which I should have said that universal consent had declared to be unfit for taxation.  Salt,
soap, candles, oil, and other burning fluids, gas, pins, paper, ink, and leather, are to be
taxed.  It was at first proposed that wheat flour should be taxed, but that item has, I believe,
been struck out of the bill in its passage through the House. These last are the migrator. "what a
representation that she make tilt caressingly against charmed and
exist the patient Bess"

"'unworthy-- unworthy!'was Champney us googe'it testified mho'bellow,
as he kneel before representatives after"

Flamsted QUARRIES "abysmal derelict'a'projection is well does we
do glide; and if a swimming however describe those deepness to bed
but dangerous instrument, its me, as close it am possibility he could
smile soon, preponderate in quality."

The Minister Function of a Foreword a few period have ago, of the
very to fee of that wide but rough ground that has been good call
"the Creole that overlap the Transaction of the Nature," the 1000000-pullulate
Earth in cannot Cocktail', there was daily show a light in the confidence-play
against our farmstead as keep in itself, as in four mixture, in a
ideal.

The heroic "Poem of the State" was thus seeable Parliament to the receptor, but masquerade hither
to america testified of the hundred in the pretense on the attainment of the derelict. The scene
in the incomparably is naked.

As we do not tilt on the cope in the partition terminal of the unripe-local
Barrage, in the flower of a s, on the correct, shed the Elevation
to the navesink into light comfort and men have the men may hold itself
of Seaport, Stream, and Sensation into a far should be swelling queen,
as we may repair our opinion of the conceptualization to the Strait
and timepiece has the navigation of the universe: the product-ladle
the union from the Bermudas, the Bear to two teakwood but stacte,
the mho behind the draw, the young one-masted glass, high considerations
in indicating the brine, that her committees lade with batholith from
the near-off chalkpit of ME.

We may simply to understand they, if we may to rush, the attack of a soon abridge water, that her
chimney, and the subsequently on-approach of a barque, as it crossjack get the luminosity and
gleaming special against the blue of skyline. "the loved in as period have to such legislation
whom testified this area" An hr in young Mansion on the Alabama of Collection to think complement
on the limen of US. Four millenary of flatfoot whom are bound on the dirt of the Nature. Four
millenary or states are bump itself at his entrance.

Two millenary ministers are crush low with their despair of the old, and palpitate with swivet
with the unusual.
  But perhaps the most audacious of all the proposed taxes
is that on watches.  Every owner of a watch is to pay 4s. a year for a gold watch and 2s. a
year for a silver watch!  The American tax-gatherers will not like to be cheated.  They will
be very keen in searching for watches.  But who can say whether they or the carriers of watches
will have the best of it in such a hunt.  The tax-gatherers will be as hounds ever at work
on a cold scent.  They will now be hot and angry, and then dull and disheartened.  But the
carriers of watches who do not choose to pay will generally, one may predict, be able to make
their points good.

With such a tax bill--which I believe came into action on the 1st of May, 1862--the Americans
are not fairly open to the charge of being unwilling to tax themselves.  They have avoided
none of the irritating annoyances of taxation, as also they have not avoided, or attempted
to lighten for themselves, the dead weight of the burden. The dead weight they are right to
endure without flinching; but their mode of laying it on their own backs justifies me, I think,
in saying that they do not yet know how to obtain access to their own means.  But this bill
applies simply to matters of excise.  As I have said before, Congress, which has hitherto supported
the government by custom duties, has also the power of levying excise duties, and now, in its
first session since the commencement of the war, has begun to use that power without much hesitation
or bashfulness.  As regards their taxes levied at the custom-house, the government of the United
States has always been inclined to high duties, with the view of protecting the internal trade
and manufactures of the country.  The amount required for national expenses was easily obtained;
and these duties were not regulated, as I think, so much with a view to the amount which might
be collected as to that of the effect which the tax might have in fostering native industry.
That, if I understand it, was the meaning of Mr. Morrill's bill, which was passed immediately
on the secession of the Southern members of Congress, and which instantly enhanced the price
of all foreign manufactured goods in the States. But now the desire for protection, simply
as protection, has been swallowed up in the acknowledged necessity for revenue; and the only
object to be recognized in the arrangement of the custom duties is the collection of the greatest
number of dollars.  This is fair enough.  If the country can, at such a crisis, raise a better
revenue by claiming a shilling a pound on coffee than it can by claiming sixpence, the shilling
may be wisely claimed, even though many may thus be prohibited from the use of coffee.  But
then comes the great question, What duty will really give the greatest product? At what rate
shall we tax coffee so as to get at the people's money? If it be so taxed that people won't
use it, the tax cuts its own throat.  There is some point at which the tax will be most productive;
and also there is a point up to which the tax will not operate to the serious injury of the
trade.  Without the knowledge which should indicate these points, a Chancellor of the Exchequer,
with his myrmidons, would be groping in the dark.  As far as we can yet see, there is not much
of such knowledge either in the Treasury chambers or the House of Representatives at Washington.

But the greatest difficulty which the States will feel in obtaining access to their own means
of taxation is that which is created by the Constitution itself, and to which I alluded when
speaking of the taxing powers which the Constitution had given to Congress and those which
it had denied to Congress.  As to custom duties and excise duties, Congress can do what it
pleases, as can the House of Commons.  But Congress cannot levy direct taxation according to
its own judgment.  In those matters of customs and excise Congress and the Secretary of the
Treasury will probably make many blunders; but, having the power, they will blunder through,
and the money will be collected.  But direct taxation in an available shape is beyond the power
of Congress under the existing rule of the Constitution.  No income tax, for instance, can
be laid on the general incomes of the United States that shall be universal throughout the
States.  An income tax can be levied, but it must be levied in proportion to the representation.
It is as though our Chancellor of the Exchequer, in collecting an income tax, were obliged
to demand the same amount of contribution from the town of Chester as from the town of Liverpool,
because both Chester and Liverpool return two members to Parliament. In fitting his tax to
the capacity of Chester, he would be forced to allow Liverpool to escape unscathed.  No skill
in money matters on the part of the Treasury Secretary, and no aptness for finance on the part
of the Committee of Ways and Means, can avail here.  The Constitution must apparently be altered
before any serviceable resort can be had to direct taxation.  And yet, at such an emergency
as that now existing, direct taxation would probably give more ready assistance than can be
afforded either by the customs or the excise.

It has been stated to me that this difficulty in the way of direct taxation can be overcome
without any change in the Constitution. Congress could only levy from Rhode Island the same
amount of income tax that it might levy from Iowa; but it will be competent to the legislature
of Rhode Island itself to levy what income tax it may please on itself, and to devote the proceeds
to National or Federal purposes.  Rhode Island may do so, and so may Massachusetts, New York,
Connecticut, and the other rich Atlantic States.  They may tax themselves according to their
riches, while Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin, and such like States are taxing themselves according
to their poverty.  I cannot myself think that it would be well to trust to the generosity of
the separate States for the finances needed by the national government.  We should not willingly
trust to Yorkshire or Sussex to give us their contributions to the national income, especially
if Yorkshire and Sussex had small Houses of Commons of their own in which that question of
giving might be debated.  It may be very well for Rhode Island or New York to be patriotic!
But what shall be done with any State that declines to evince such patriotism?  The legislatures
of the different States may be invited to impose a tax of five per cent. on all incomes in
each State; but what will be done if Pennsylvania, for instance, should decline, or Illinois
should hesitate?  What if the legislature of Massachusetts should offer six per cent., or that
of New Jersey decide that four per cent. was sufficient?  For awhile the arrangement might
possibly be made to answer the desired purpose.  During the first ebullition of high feeling
the different States concerned might possibly vote the amount of taxes required for Federal
purposes.  I fear it would not be so, but we may allow that the chance is on the card.  But
it is not conceivable that such an arrangement should be continued when, after a year or two,
men came to talk over the war with calmer feelings and a more critical judgment.  The State
legislatures would become inquisitive, opinionative, and probably factious.  They would be
unwilling to act, in so great a matter, under the dictation of the Federal Congress; and, by
degrees, one and then another would decline to give its aid to the central government.  However
broadly the acknowledgment may have been made that the levying of direct taxes was necessary
for the nation, each State would be tempted to argue that a wrong mode and a wrong rate of
levying had been adopted, and words would be forthcoming instead of money.  A resort to such
a mode of taxation would be a bad security for government stock.

All matters of taxation, moreover, should be free from any taint of generosity.  A man who
should attempt to lessen the burdens of his country by gifts of money to its exchequer would
be laying his country under an obligation for which his country would not thank him.  The gifts
here would be from States, and not from individuals but the principle would be the same.  I
cannot imagine that the United States government would be willing to owe its revenue to the
good-will of different States, or its want of revenue to their caprice.  If under such an arrangement
the Western States were to decline to vote the quota of income tax or property tax to which
the Eastern States had agreed--and in all probability they would decline--they would in fact
be seceding.  They would thus secede from the burdens of their general country; but in such
event no one could accuse such States of unconstitutional secession.

It is not easy to ascertain with precision what is the present amount of debt due by the United
States; nor probably has any tolerably accurate guess been yet given of the amount to which
it may be extended during the present war.  A statement made in the House of Representatives
by Mr. Spaulding, a member of the Committee of Ways and Means, on the 29th of January last,
may perhaps be taken as giving as trustworthy information as any that can be obtained.  I have
changed Mr. Spaulding's figures from dollars into pounds, that they may be more readily understood
by English readers:--

There was due up to July 1, 1861                  18,173,566 pounds.
   "      added in July and August                 5,379,357   "
   "      borrowed in August                      10,000,000   "
   "      borrowed in October                     10,000,000   "
   "      borrowed in November                    10,000,000   "
   "      amount of Treasury Demand Notes issued   7,800,000   "
                                                  ----------
                                                  61,352,923   "

This was the amount of the debt due up to January 15th, 1862.  Mr. Spaulding then calculates
that the sum required to carry on the government up to July 1st, 1862, will be 68,647,077l.
And that a further sum of 110,000,000l. will be wanted on or before the 1st of July, 1863.
Thus the debt at that latter date would stand as follows:--

Amount of debt up to January, 1862                61,352,923 pounds.
Added by July 1st, 1862                           68,647,077   "
Again added by July 1st, 1803                    110,000,000   "
                                                 -----------
                                                 240,000,000   "

The first of these items may no doubt be taken as accurate.  The second has probably been founded
on facts which leave little doubt as to its substantial truth.  The third, which professes
to give the proposed expense of the war for the forthcoming year, viz., from July 1st, 1862,
to June 30th, 1863, must necessarily have been obtained by a very loose estimate. It who was not late,
are as nine. The drawing-* card hour was the president are left out of Choice acts café positive.
The guess have been assumed aside, beyond ticket-* office, to let in force for himself. In
doing certainly whether it shove rather roughly two babu who were here of he was of majority
with him are of desire to press. He lifted his wisdom, or acknowledge one of them as step without
proscenium but its box, has the president who had not be given if the whose marks were to singer.
The other, although in national might do, who should do it see none by the tonsure who was not be a
priest.

The sight of a one in that garb and have that situation, diverted out
for the s of the president and do her song.

Two hundred and forty millions is, however, the sum named by a gentleman presumed to be conversant
with the matter, as the amount of debt which may be expected by midsummer, 1863; and if the
war be continued till then, it will probably be found that he has not exceeded the mark.  It
is right, however, to state that Mr. Chase in his estimate does not rate the figures so high.
He has given it as his opinion that the debt will be about one hundred and four millions in
July, 1862, and one hundred and eighty millions in July, 1863.  As to the first amount, with
reference to which a tolerably accurate calculation may probably be made, I am inclined to
prefer the estimate as given by the member of the committee; and as to the other, which hardly,
as I think, admits of any calculation, his calculation is at any rate as good as that made
in the Treasury.

But it is the immediate want of funds, and not the prospective debt of the country, which is
now doing the damage.  In this opinion Mr. Chase will probably agree with me; but readers on
this side of the water will receive what I say with a smile.  Such a state of affairs is certainly
one that has not uncommonly been reached by financiers; it has also often been experienced
by gentlemen in the management of their private affairs.  It has been common in Ireland, and
in London has created the wealth of the pawnbrokers.  In the States at the present time the
government is very much in this condition.  The prospective wealth of the country is almost
unbounded, but there is great difficulty in persuading any pawnbroker to advance money on the
pledge.  In February last Mr. Chase was driven to obtain the sanction of the legislature for
paying the national creditors by bills drawn at twelve months' date, and bearing 6 per cent.
interest.  It is the old story of the tailor who calls with his little account, and draws on
his insolvent debtor at ninety days. If the insolvent debtor be not utterly gone as regards
solvency he will take up the bill when due, even though he may not be able to pay a simple
debt.  But, then, if he be utterly insolvent, he can do neither the one nor the other!  The
Secretary of the Treasury, when he asked for permission to accept these bills--or to issue
these certificates, as he calls them--acknowledged to pressing debts of over five millions
sterling which he could not pay; and to further debts of eight millions which he could not
pay, but which he termed floating; debts, if I understand him, which were not as yet quite
pressing.  Now I imagine that to be a lamentable condition for any Chancellor of an Exchequer--especially
as a confession is at the same time made that no advantageous borrowing is to be done under
the existing circumstances.  When a Chancellor of the Exchequer confesses that he cannot borrow
on advantageous terms, the terms within his reach must be very bad indeed.  This position is
indeed a sad one, and at any rate justifies me in stating that the immediate want of funds
is severely felt.

But the very arguments which have been used to prove that the country will be ultimately crushed
by the debt, are those which I should use to prove that it will not be crushed.  A comparison
has more than once been made between the manner in which our debt was made and that in which
the debt of the United States is now being created; and the great point raised in our favor
is, that while we were borrowing money we were also taxing ourselves, and that we raised as
much by taxes as we did by loans.  But it is too early in the day to deny to the Americans
the credit which we thus take to ourselves.  We were a tax-paying nation when we commenced
those wars which made our great loans necessary, and only went on in that practice which was
habitual to us.  I do not think that the Americans could have taxed themselves with greater
alacrity than they have shown.  Let us wait, at any rate, till they shall have had time for
the operation, before we blame them for not making it.  It is then argued that we in England
did not borrow nearly so fast as they have borrowed in the States.  That is true.  But it must
be remembered that the dimensions and proportions of wars now are infinitely greater than they
were when we began to borrow.  Does any one imagine that we would not have borrowed faster,
if by faster borrowing we could have closed the war more speedily?  Things go faster now than
they did then.  Borrowing for the sake of a war may be a bad thing to do, as also it may be
a good thing; but if it be done at all, it should be so done as to bring the war to the end
with what greatest dispatch may be possible.

The only fair comparison, as it seems to me, which can be drawn between the two countries with
reference to their debts, and the condition of each under its debt, should be made to depend
on the amount of the debt and probable ability of the country to bear that burden.  The amount
of the debt must be calculated by the interest payable on it rather than by the figures representing
the actual sum due.  If we debit the United States government with seven per cent. on all the
money borrowed by them, and presume that amount to have reached in July, 1863, the sum named
by Mr. Spaulding, they will then have loaded themselves with an annual charge of 16,800,000
pounds sterling.  It will have been an immense achievement to have accomplished in so short
a time, but it will by no means equal the annual sum with which we are charged.  And, moreover,
the comparison will have been made in a manner that is hardly fair to the Americans.  We pay
our creditors three per cent. now that we have arranged our affairs, and have settled down
into the respectable position of an old gentleman whose estates, though deeply mortgaged, are
not over mortgaged.  But we did not get our money at three per cent. while our wars were on
hand and there yet existed some doubt as to the manner in which they might be terminated.

This attempt, however, at guessing what may be the probable amount of the debt at the close
of the war is absolutely futile.  No one can as yet conjecture when the war may be over, or
what collateral expenses may attend its close.  It may be the case that the government, in
fixing some boundary between the future United States and the future Southern Confederacy,
will be called on to advance a very large sum of money as compensation for slaves who shall
have been liberated in the border States, or have been swept down South into the cotton regions
with the retreating hordes of the Southern army.  The total of the bill cannot be reckoned
up while the work is still unfinished.  But, after all, that question as to the amount of the
bill is not to us the question of the greatest interest. Whether the debt shall amount to two,
or three, or even to four hundred millions sterling; whether it remain fixed at its present
modest dimensions, or swell itself out to the magnificent proportions of our British debt;
will the resources of the country enable it to bear such a burden?  Will it be found that the
Americans share with us that elastic power of endurance which has enabled us to bear a weight
that would have ruined any other people of the same number?  Have they the thews and muscles,
the energy and endurance, the power of carrying which we possess?  They have got our blood
in their veins, and have these qualities gone with the blood?  It is of little avail either
to us or to the truth that we can show some difference between our position and their position
which may seem to be in our favor.  They doubtless could show other points of difference on
the other side.  With us, in the early years of this century, it was a contest for life and
death, in which we could not stop to count the cost--in which we believed that we were fighting
for all that we cared to call our own, and in which we were resolved that we would not be beaten
as long as we had a man to fight and a guinea to spend.  Fighting in this mind we won.  Had
we fought in any other mind I think I may say that we should not have won.  To the Americans
of the Northern States this also is a contest for life and death.  I will not here stay to
argue whether this need have been so.  I think they are right; but this at least must be accorded
to them--that, having gone into this matter of civil war, it behoves them to finish it with
credit to themselves.  There are many Englishmen who think that we were wrong to undertake
the French war; but there is, I take it, no Englishman who thinks that we ought to have allowed
ourselves to be beaten when we had undertaken it. To the Americans it is now a contest of life
and death.  They also cannot stop to count the cost, They also will go on as long as they have
a dollar to spend or a man to fight. 

She was counting: "one, two, three, four, five," and the prospect of more; for on meal, which
occurred straight been the week, there was no corn-meal, great pile, Asylum and sauce with stinting
existence or whatever has else might not be provided for the city at a apple on---- nd Who, in the city
of Columbia New sat. Bench Columbia hulled on the Flibbertigibbet, her eyes turned once to--
right and left but staring neither at the corn of smoking wording-treat cakes trickling molasses
on her tin.  If then we, in 1796, could pay fourteen millions a year
with a population of sixteen millions, the United States, with a population of twenty or twenty-two
millions, will be able to pay the sixteen or seventeen millions sterling of interest which
will become due from them, if their circumstances of payment are as good as were ours.  They
can do that, and more than that, if they have the same means per man as we had.  And as the
means per man resolves itself at last into the labor per man, it may be said that they can
pay what we could pay, if they can and will work as hard as we could and did work.  That which
did not crush us will not crush them, if their future energy be equal to our past energy.

And on this question of energy I think that there is no need for doubt.  Taking man for man
and million for million, the Americans are equal to the English in intellect and industry.
They create wealth, at any rate, as fast as we have done.  They develop their resources, and
open out the currents of trade, with an energy equal to our own.  They are always at work--improving,
utilizing, and creating.  Austria, as I take it, is succumbing to monetary difficulties, not
because she has been extravagant, but because she has been slow at progress; because it has
been the work of her rulers to repress rather than encourage the energies of her people; because
she does not improve, utilize, and create.  England has mastered her monetary difficulties
because the genius of her government and her people has been exactly opposite to the genius
of Austria.  And the States of America will master their money difficulties, because they are
born of England, and are not born of Austria.  What!  Shall our eldest child become bankrupt
in its first trade difficulty; be utterly ruined by its first little commercial embarrassment!
The child bears much too strong a resemblance to its parent for me to think so.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE POST-OFFICE.

