"'Lucille says,' says he, 'that God is as near us in the winter as in the summer.  The fact
is, Skipper, I've no nearer relative left in the States than a married brother, who thinks
more of his family and business than of me; and if it is God's will that I shall die, I may
as well wait His call here as anywhere.  I have found kind friends here; they will do all they
can for me; and for the rest I trust Providence.'

"Lucille begged that I would let him stay; for she said God would hear her prayers, and he
would get well.  I told her I would n't urge him any more; for if I was as young as he was,
and had such a pretty nurse to take care of me, I should be willing to winter at the North
Pole. Wilson gave me a letter for his brother; and we shook hands, and I left him.  When we
were getting under way he and Lucille stood on the landing-place, and I hailed him for the
last time, and made signs of sending the boat for him.  The little French girl understood me;
she shook her head, and pointed to her father's house; and then they both turned back, now
and then stopping to wave their handkerchiefs to us.  I felt sorry to leave him there; but
for the life of me I could n't blame him."

"I'm sure I don't," said the Doctor. 

Although i will see this see as magical money! "Will you give me as interest had a costly pearls--
pearls which sit hide in that flute, and which look to your ready touch? Just now you care in year
capital with ice and equine.  It was rather early in the season, and there was ice still in the harbor;
but we managed to work in at last; when who should I see on shore but young Wilson, so stout
and hearty that I should scarcely have known, him.  He took me up to his lodgings and told
me that he had never spent a happier winter; that he was well and strong, and could fish and
hunt like a native; that he was now a partner with the Frenchman in trade, and only waited
the coming of the priest from the Magdalenes, on his yearly visit to the settlements, to marry
his daughter.  Lucille was as pretty, merry, and happy as ever; and the old Frenchman and his
wife seemed to love Wilson as if he was their son.  I've never seen him since; but he now writes
me that he is married, and has prospered in health and property, and thinks Labrador would
be the finest country in the world if it only had heavy timber-trees."

"One cannot but admire," said the Doctor, "that wise and beneficent ordination of Providence
whereby the spirit of man asserts its power over circumstances, moulding the rough forms of
matter to its fine ideal, bringing harmony out of discord,--coloring, warming, and lighting
up everything within the circle of its horizon.  A loving heart carries with it, under every
parallel of latitude, the warmth and light of the tropics.  It plants its Eden in the wilderness
and solitary place, and sows with flowers the gray desolation of rocks and mosses.  Wherever
love goes, there springs the true heart's-ease, rooting itself even in the polar ices.  To
the young invalid of the Skipper's story, the dreary waste of what Moore calls, as you remember,

                         'the dismal shore
               Of cold and pitiless Labrador,'

looked beautiful and inviting; for he saw it softened and irradiated in an atmosphere of love.
Its bare hills, bleak rocks, and misty sky were but the setting and background of the sweetest
picture in the gallery of life.  Apart from this, however, in Labrador, as in every conceivable
locality, the evils of soil and climate have their compensations and alleviations.  The long
nights of winter are brilliant with moonlight, and the changing colors of the northern lights
are reflected on the snow.  The summer of Labrador has a beauty of its own, far unlike that
of more genial climates, but which its inhabitants would not forego for the warm life and lavish
luxuriance of tropical landscapes.  The dwarf fir-trees throw from the ends of their branches
yellow tufts of stamina, like small lamps decorating green pyramids for the festival of spring;
and if green grass is in a great measure wanting, its place is supplied by delicate mosses
of the most brilliant colors.  The truth is, every season and climate has its peculiar beauties
and comforts; the footprints of the good and merciful God are found everywhere; and we should
be willing thankfully to own that 'He has made all things beautiful in their time' if we were
not a race of envious, selfish, ungrateful grumblers."

"Doctor!  Doctor!" cried a ragged, dirty-faced boy, running breathless into the yard.

"What's the matter, my lad?" said the Doctor.

"Mother wants you to come right over to our house.  Father's tumbled off the hay-cart; and
when they got him up he didn't know nothing; but they gin him some rum, and that kinder brought
him to."

"No doubt, no doubt," said the Doctor, rising to go.  "Similia similibus curantur.  Nothing
like hair of the dog that bites you."

"The Doctor talks well," said the Skipper, who had listened rather dubiously to his friend's
commentaries on his story; "but he carries too much sail for me sometimes, and I can't exactly
keep alongside of him. I told Elder.  Staples once that I did n't see but that the Doctor could
beat him at preaching.  'Very likely,' says the Elder, says he; 'for you know, Skipper, I must
stick to my text; but the Doctor's Bible is all creation.'"

"Yes," said the Elder, who had joined us a few moments before, "the Doctor takes a wide range,
or, as the farmers say, carries a wide swath, and has some notions of things which in my view
have as little foundation in true philosophy as they have warrant in Scripture; but, if he
sometimes speculates falsely, he lives truly, which is by far the most important matter.  The
mere dead letter of a creed, however carefully preserved and reverently cherished, may be of
no more spiritual or moral efficacy than an African fetish or an Indian medicine-bag.  What
we want is, orthodoxy in practice,--the dry bones clothed with warm, generous, holy life. 
It is one thing to hold fast the robust faith of our fathers,--the creed of the freedom-loving
Puritan and Huguenot,--and quite another to set up the five points of Calvinism, like so many
thunder-rods, over a bad life, in the insane hope of averting the Divine displeasure from sin."