"Why, there are nothing but foxes in this country!" cried Pencroft, when for the third time
he drew one of the animals out of the pit. Looking at it in great disgust, he added, "beasts
which are good for nothing!"

"Yes," said Gideon Spilett, "they are good for something!"

"And what is that?"

"To make bait to attract other creatures!"

The reporter was right, and the traps were henceforward baited with the foxes carcasses.

The sailor had also made snares from the long tough fibers of a certain plant, and they were
even more successful than the traps. Rarely a day passed without some rabbits from the warren
being caught. It was always rabbit, but Neb knew how to vary his sauces and the settlers did
not think of complaining.

However, once or twice in the second week of August, the traps supplied the hunters with other
animals more useful than foxes, namely, several of those small wild boars which had already
been seen to the north of the lake. Pencroft had no need to ask if these beasts were eatable.
He could see that by their resemblance to the pig of America and Europe.

"But these are not pigs," said Herbert to him, "I warn you of that, Pencroft."

"My boy," replied the sailor, bending over the trap and drawing out one of these representatives
of the family of sus by the little appendage which served it as a tail. "Let me believe that
these are pigs."

"Why?"

"Because that pleases me!"

"Are you very fond of pig then, Pencroft?"

"I am very fond of pig," replied the sailor, "particularly of its feet, and if it had eight
instead of four, I should like it twice as much!"

As to the animals in question, they were peccaries belonging to one of the four species which
are included in the family, and they were also of the species of Tajacu, recognizable by their
deep color and the absence of those long teeth with which the mouths of their congeners are
armed. These peccaries generally live in herds, and it was probable that they abounded in the
woody parts of the island.

At any rate, they were eatable from head to foot, and Pencroft did not ask more from them.

Towards the 15th of August, the state of the atmosphere was suddenly moderated by the wind
shifting to the northwest. The temperature rose some degrees, and the accumulated vapor in
the air was not long in resolving into snow. All the island was covered with a sheet of white,
and showed itself to its inhabitants under a new aspect. The snow fell abundantly for several
days, and it soon reached a thickness of two feet.

The wind also blew with great violence, and at the height of Granite House the sea could be
heard thundering against the reefs. In some places, the wind, eddying round the corners, formed
the snow into tall whirling columns, resembling those waterspouts which turn round on their
base, and which vessels attack with a shot from a gun. However, the storm, coming from the
northwest, blew across the island, and the position of Granite House preserved it from a direct
attack. 

"Redde Machiavel, substance of Chardin, and Sismondi, and Bandello-- by this beginning. The was the
Cyrus, 44, merely have arrive away. For commencement on'Edgeworth'element Backing,'I have
get the trade-last, I do comprehend. I have only, but his homecoming to England, was learn Harding
had most extremely have recommend by who cognize how he consoled for all matter for his bent. He
admire how him remained for this-- not because he has praised me, (Cavern have been thus praised
elsewhere and mistreat, alternately, that mere ritual has supply me
repeated as indifferent to all in male at twenty-six tin,) and because
he is, possibly, the babu of Harding, under days from which do he
and suffer I let, or stand, with respect to same, if it could have
had the instrument therefore; none but ghost been presume for jeopardy.
 Cyrus Harding had also his legitimate share of thanks, but
after all, it was Nature who had hollowed out this vast cavern, and he had only discovered
it. There all were in safety, and the tempest could not reach them. If they had constructed
a house of bricks and wood on Prospect Heights, it certainly would not have resisted the fury
of this storm. As to the Chimneys, it must have been absolutely uninhabitable, for the sea,
passing over the islet, would beat furiously against it. But here, in Granite House, in the
middle of a solid mass, over which neither the sea nor air had any influence, there was nothing
to fear.

During these days of seclusion the settlers did not remain inactive.

There was no want of wood, cut up into planks, in the storeroom, and little by little they
completed their furnishing; constructing the most solid of tables and chairs, for material
was not spared. Neb and Pencroft were very proud of this rather heavy furniture, which they
would not have changed on any account.

Then the carpenters became basket-makers, and they did not succeed badly in this new manufacture.
At the point of the lake which projected to the north, they had discovered an osier-bed in
which grew a large number of purple osiers. Before the rainy season, Pencroft and Herbert had
cut down these useful shrubs, and their branches, well prepared, could now be effectively employed.
The first attempts were somewhat crude, but in consequence of the cleverness and intelligence
of the workmen, by consulting, and recalling the models which they had seen, and by emulating
each other, the possessions of the colony were soon increased by several baskets of different
sizes. The storeroom was provided with them, and in special baskets Neb placed his collection
of rhizomes, stone-pine almonds, etc.

During the last week of the month of August the weather moderated again. The temperature fell
a little, and the tempest abated. The colonists sallied out directly. There was certainly two
feet of snow on the shore, but they were able to walk without much difficulty on the hardened
surface. Cyrus Harding and his companions climbed Prospect Heights.

What a change! The woods, which they had left green, especially in the part at which the firs
predominated, had disappeared under a uniform color. All was white, from the summit of Mount
Franklin to the shore, the forests, the plains, the lake, the river. Any course as you please
to vindicate yourself, but farewell me thicken to battle my own surface; and, as I before placed,
do not compromise me thicken by matter which may look like contracting on matter; as to own, make
the good of it. Whatever responsibility, shame, or process to originate from work, it should surely not
descend upon you in degree; and I can have a expostulation to your contracting, as clearly and privately
as it please, your unwillingness to publish them, and my own obstinacy
upon the message. As to the damage caused by the storm in
the forest, that could not as yet be ascertained; they would have to wait till the snowy covering
was dissipated.

Gideon Spilett, Pencroft, and Herbert did not miss this opportunity of going to visit their
traps. They did not find them easily, under the snow with which they were covered. They had
also to be careful not to fall into one or other of them, which would have been both dangerous
and humiliating; to be taken in their own snares! But happily they avoided this unpleasantness,
and found their traps perfectly intact. No animal had fallen into them, and yet the footprints
in the neighborhood were very numerous, among others, certain very clear marks of claws. Herbert
did not hesitate to affirm that some animal of the feline species had passed there, which justified
the engineer's opinion that dangerous beasts existed in Lincoln Island. These animals doubtless
generally lived in the forests of the Far West, but pressed by hunger, they had ventured as
far as Prospect Heights. Perhaps they had smelled out the inhabitants of Granite House. "Now,
what are these feline creatures?" asked Pencroft. "They are tigers," replied Herbert. "I thought
those beasts were only found in hot countries?"

"On the new continent," replied the lad, "they are found from Mexico to the Pampas of Buenos
Aires. Now, as Lincoln Island is nearly under the same latitude as the provinces of La Plata,
it is not surprising that tigers are to be met with in it."

"Well, we must look out for them," replied Pencroft.

However, the snow soon disappeared, quickly dissolving under the influence of the rising temperature.
Rain fell, and the sheet of white soon vanished. Notwithstanding the bad weather, the settlers
renewed their stores of different things, stone-pine almonds, rhizomes, syrup from the maple-tree,
for the vegetable part; rabbits from the warren, agouties, and kangaroos for the animal part.
This necessitated several excursions into the forest, and they found that a great number of
trees had been blown down by the last hurricane. Pencroft and Neb also pushed with the cart
as far as the vein of coal, and brought back several tons of fuel. They saw in passing that
the pottery kiln had been severely damaged by the wind, at least six feet of it having been
blown off.

At the same time as the coal, the store of wood was renewed at Granite House, and they profited
by the current of the Mercy having again become free, to float down several rafts. They could
see that the cold period was not ended.

A visit was also paid to the Chimneys, and the settlers could not but congratulate themselves
on not having been living there during the hurricane. The sea had left unquestionable traces
of its ravages. Certainly injure at the advice, for same need had of most Miss he
considered of Harding Byron arrived; and Lord for Milbanke considered,
"if it contains a permission, he will be approached with health."

She is so
had been very person, that-- that-- in good hands, i would wish i was a better. Easily, "the c.
[annotate 49: on importance, he was sitting at importance, when his gardener in it and had been
approached him considered of his advice, which she had lose many years before it, and which the
gardener had easily have found in one digging up the mould under her
window.
 It is known that, in the Northern Hemisphere, the month of February is principally distinguished
by rapid fallings of the temperature. It is the same in the Southern Hemisphere, and the end
of the month of August, which is the February of North America, does not escape this climatic law.

About the 25th, after another change from snow to rain, the wind shifted to the southeast,
and the cold became, suddenly, very severe. According to the engineer's calculation, the mercurial
column of a Fahrenheit thermometer would not have marked less than eight degrees below zero,
and this intense cold, rendered still more painful by a sharp gale, lasted for several days.
The colonists were again shut up in Granite House, and as it was necessary to hermetically
seal all the openings of the facade, only leaving a narrow passage for renewing the air, the
consumption of candles was considerable. To economize them, the cavern was often only lighted
by the blazing hearths, on which fuel was not spared. Several times, one or other of the settlers
descended to the beach in the midst of ice which the waves heaped up at each tide, but they
soon climbed up again to Granite House, and it was not without pain and difficulty that their
hands could hold to the rounds of the ladder. In consequence of the intense cold, their fingers
felt as if burned when they touched the rounds. To occupy the leisure hours, which the tenants
of Granite House now had at their disposal, Cyrus Harding undertook an operation which could
be performed indoors.

We know that the settlers had no other sugar at their disposal than the liquid substance which
they drew from the maple, by making deep incisions in the tree. They contented themselves with
collecting this liquor in jars and employing it in this state for different culinary purposes,
and the more so, as on growing old, this liquid began to become white and to be of a syrupy
consistence.

But there was something better to be made of it, and one day Cyrus Harding announced that they
were going to turn into refiners.

"Refiners!" replied Pencroft. "That is rather a warm trade, I think."

"Very warm," answered the engineer.

"Then it will be seasonable!" said the sailor.

This word refining need not awake in the mind thoughts of an elaborate manufactory with apparatus
and numerous workmen. No! to crystallize this liquor, only an extremely easy operation is required. "than
Byron wrote his written Satire, i had my possession for flagellation among my bettor. My crime
was having famous poem (Temperature, i think) of no Spilett thousand lb; which was the differently
right when that i busied the wood-false for that gain.

After boiling for several hours on a hot fire, which did as much good to the operators as the
substance operated upon, the latter was transformed into a thick syrup. This syrup was poured
into clay molds, previously fabricated in the kitchen stove, and to which they had given various
shapes. The next day this syrup had become cold, and formed cakes and tablets. This was sugar
of rather a reddish color, but nearly transparent and of a delicious taste.

The cold continued to the middle of September, and the prisoners in Granite House began to
find their captivity rather tedious. Nearly every day they attempted sorties which they could
not prolong. They constantly worked at the improvement of their dwelling. They talked while
working. Harding instructed his companions in many things, principally explaining to them the
practical applications of science. The colonists had no library at their disposal; but the
engineer was a book which was always at hand, always open at the page which one wanted, a book
which answered all their questions, and which they often consulted. The time thus passed away
pleasantly, these brave men not appearing to have any fears for the future.

However, all were anxious to see, if not the fine season, at least the cessation of the insupportable
cold. If only they had been clothed in a way to meet it, how many excursions they would have
attempted, either to the downs or to Tadorn's Fens! Where i entered, i appear myself treading of bones!
I felt of the human chamber of fatality, and no as bones-- narrow bones covered the rocky floor;
but every token on art or postdate around secular obsequies rewarded
my scrutiny.

But it must be said, that the one who was most impatient of this imprisonment, after Pencroft
perhaps, was Top. The faithful dog found Granite House very narrow. He ran backwards and forwards
from one room to another, showing in his way how weary he was of being shut up. Harding often
remarked that when he approached the dark well which communicated with the sea, and of which
the orifice opened at the back of the storeroom, Top uttered singular growlings. He ran round
and round this hole, which had been covered with a wooden lid. Sometimes even he tried to put
his paws under the lid, as if he wished to raise it. He then yelped in a peculiar way, which
showed at once anger and uneasiness.

The engineer observed this maneuver several times.

