The Czar was a very tall man, exceedingly well made; rather thin, his face somewhat round,
a high forehead, good eyebrows, a rather short nose, but not too short, and large at the end,
rather thick lips, complexion reddish brown, good black eyes, large, bright, piercing, and
well open; his look majestic and gracious when he liked, but when otherwise, severe and stern,
with a twitching of the face, not often occurring, but which appeared to contort his eyes and
all his physiognomy, and was frightful to see; it lasted a moment, gave him a wild and terrible
air, and passed away.  All his bearing showed his intellect, his reflectiveness, and his greatness,
and was not devoid of a certain grace.  He wore a linen collar, a round-brown wig, as though
without powder, and which did not reach to his shoulders; a brown coat tight to the body, even,
and with gold buttons; vest, breeches, stockings, no gloves or ruffles, the star of his order
over his coat, and the cordon under it, the coat itself being frequently quite unbuttoned,
his hat upon the table, but never upon his head, even out of doors.  With this simplicity ill-accompanied
or ill mounted as he might be, the air of greatness natural to him could not be mistaken.

What he ate and drank at his two regular meals is inconceivable, without reckoning the beer,
lemonade, and other drinks he swallowed between these repasts, his suite following his example;
a bottle or two of beer, as many more of wine, and occasionally, liqueurs afterwards; at the
end of the meal strong drinks, such as brandy, as much sometimes as a quart. This was about
the usual quantity at each meal.  His suite at his table drank more and ate in proportion,
at eleven o'clock in the morning and at eight at night.  There was a chaplain who ate at the
table of the Czar, who consumed half as much again as the rest, and with whom the monarch,
who was fond of him, much amused himself.  Prince Kourakin went every day to the Hotel de Lesdiguieres,
but lodged elsewhere.

The Czar well understood French, and I think could have spoken it, if he had wished, but for
greatness' sake he always had an interpreter.  Latin and many other languages he spoke very
well.  There was a detachment of guards in his house, but he would scarcely ever allow himself
to be followed by them.  He would not set foot outside the Hotel de Lesdiguieres, whatever
curiosity he might feel, or give any signs of life, until he had received a visit from the King.

On Saturday, the day after his arrival, the Regent went in the morning to see the Czar.  This
monarch left his cabinet, advanced a few paces, embraced Monsieur d'Orleans with an air of
great superiority, pointed to the door of the cabinet, and instantly turning on his heel, without
the slightest compliment, entered there.  The Regent followed, and Prince Kourakin after him
to serve as interpreter.  They found two armchairs facing each other, the Czar seated himself
in the upper, the Regent in the other.  The conversation lasted nearly an hour without public
affairs being mentioned, after which the Czar left his cabinet; the Regent followed him, made
him a profound reverence, but slightly returned, and left him in the same place as he had found
him on entering.

