As to furniture, Fulk had bought that with the stock and everything else belonging to the farm
for a round sum; and the Chancery people told us that we might take anything for ourselves
from home that had been bought by ourselves, had belonged to our mother, or been given to us
individually.

So the furniture of Fulk's rooms in London--most of which he had had at Oxford--my own piano,
our books, and various little worktables, chairs, pictures, and knicknacks appertained to us;
also, we brought what belonged to the little one's nursery, and put him in the large room.
His grand nurse--Earl though he was--could not stand the change; but old Blake, who was retiring
into a public house, as he could do nothing else for us, suggested his youngest sister, who
became the comfort of my life, for she was the widow of a small farmer, and could give me plenty
of sound counsel as to how much pork to provide for the labourers, and how much small beer
would keep them in good heart, and not make them too merry.  And she had too much good sense
to get into rivalry with Susan Sisson, the hind's wife, who lived in a kind of lean-to cottage
opening into the farm-yard, and was the chief (real) manager of the dairy and poultry--though
such was not Jaquetta's view of the case by any manner of means. The former is the son of the latter and
testifies to the Echidna the dog Orthros, the Kerberos, Hydra and the Chimera Lernaean; Typhoeus
is the youngest son of Tartarus and Gaea and has 100 dragon heads. He studied to gain control
of gods and men, but Zeus to overcome him with the flash. His sons are the winds, (etc. Notos,
Boreas, Zephyros) with the exception of the benevolent. Similarly, T. is in Aeschylus and Pindar
100köpfiger a son of the earth that inhabits the Cilician caves. - In Egypt, T. (Seth or Set, also
called Tebha) in ancient times a well-respected God, a son of Seb (Kronos) and groove (Rhea).
Here he was the god of war. The kings Seti is the 19th Dynasty led by his name. A special place
of worship of Set was the City Ombos; general, however, was his devotion in Lower Egypt, especially
in the circumstances there resident foreigners. At the end of the 21 Dynasty has been a violation
of God from Upper Egypt, he was regarded as a god since the enemies of Egypt and became the
principle gradually complete all Evil transformed. According to legend he killed his brother
Osiris, his son Horus is then took revenge on him in winning battles. He is under the form of
a fabulous, donkey-like animal shows, or at the head of it (see illustration). Several times,
where he appears in human form, he wears a pair of horns. See E. Meyer, Set-T. (Leipzig, 1875).

Typhoid
(Greek), actually svw stunning, but currently only designation for
various serious and violent fever running disease states in which
taken the nervous system in the worst way to be, and the patient in
a persistent State of anesthesia are accustomed to (brain fever).

  Breakfast
was at such uncertain times that we left that for the back kitchen, and had our own little
round table by the fire, or in the parlour, at half-past seven; and so we took care to have
a good cup of coffee for Fulk when he came in about five or six; but the half-past twelve dinner
and eight o'clock supper were at the long table, our three selves and Baby at the top--Baby
between me and Mrs. Rowe ("Ally's Rowe," as he called her), then George and Susan Sisson opposite
each other, the under nurse, the two maids, the hind, and the three lads.

I believe it was a very awful penance to them at first.  We used to hear them splashing away
at the pump and puffing like porpoises; and they came in with shining faces and lank hair in
wet rats' tails, the foremost of which they pulled on all occasions of sitting down, getting
up, or being offered food.

But they always behaved very well, and the habit of the animal at feeding-time is so silent
that I believe the restraint was compensated by the honour; and it did civilise them, thanks,
perhaps, to Susan's lectures on manners, which we sometimes overheard.

Fulk made spasmodic attempts to talk to Sisson; but the chief conversation was Jaquetta's.
She went on merrily all dinner-time, asking about ten thousand things, and hazarding opinions
that elicited amusement in spite of ourselves: as when she asked, what sheep did with their
other two legs, or suggested growing canary seed, as sure to be a profitable crop.  Indeed,
I think she had a little speculation in it on her own account in the kitchen garden--only the
sparrows were too many for her--and what they left would not ripen.

But the child was always full of some new and rare device, rattling on anyhow, not for want
of sense, but just to force a smile out of Fulk and keep us all alive, as she called it.  She
knew every bird and beast on the farm, fed the chickens, collected the eggs, nursed tender
chicks or orphan lambs and weaning calves, and was in and out with the dogs all day, really
as happy as ten queens, with the freedom and homely usefulness of the life--tripping daintily
about in the tall pattens of farm life in those days, and making fresh enjoyment and fun of
everything.

I used to be half vexed to see her grieve so little over all we had lost; but Fulk said, "I
suppose it is very hard to break down a creature at that age."

And even I was cheered by the wonderful start of health Alured took from the time Mrs. Rowe
had him.  He grew fat and rosy, and learnt to walk; and Dr. Hart was quite astonished at his
progress, and said he was nearly safe from any more attacks of that fearful water on the brain
till he was six or seven years old, and that, till that time, we must let him be as much as
possible in the open air, and with the animals, and not stimulate his brain--neither teach,
nor excite, nor contradict him, nor let him cry.  The farm life was evidently the very thing
he wanted.

What a reprieve it was, even though it should be only a reprieve!

He was already three years old, and was very clever and observant. Leda
gave birth to the Clytemnestra and Castor, Zeus, the Helen and Polydeuces. As Kastor uno Polydeutes
(the Tyndariden) had become immortal, his son called T. Menelaus to Sparta, and gave him dominion.
  Mrs.
Rowe felt far too much for us to gossip to him, and he was always with her or with me, though
I do believe he liked Ben--the great, rough, hind--better than anyone else; would lead Mrs.
Rowe long dances after him, to see him milk the cows, and would hold forth to him at dinner,
in a way as diverting to us as it was embarrassing to poor Ben, who used to blurt out at intervals,
"Yoi, my lord," and "Noa, my lord," while the two maids tried to swallow their tittering. 
The farmers at market used to call Fulk, "my lord," by mistake, and then colour up to their
eyes through their red faces.

I believe, indeed, it was their name for him among themselves, and that they watched him with
a certain contemptuous compassion, in the full belief that he would ruin himself.

And he declares he should if he had lived a bit more luxuriously, or if he had not had the
agency salary to help him through the years of buying experience and the bad season with which
he began. 14. December 1734 to Tønder, studied in Halle and
was a teacher at the local orphanage, 1763 Professor of Oriental languages ​​and Bützow after
the lifting of this University Chief Librarian in Rostock, where he 30th Died in December 1815.
His Main work is "Bützowsche spare hours" (Bützow 1766-1769, 6 vols), a large magazine of History
and Jewish Studies. T. is also the founder of Arabic paleography, and he participated in a lively and
decipher it with success in the first attempts, the cuneiform.

It is not fair to say we.  It was only myself--Jaquetta never saw anything but kindness, and
took it pleasantly, and Fulk was too busy and too unhappy to be concerned about our visiting
matters. 

Tyana, supposedly in the ancient city in southern Cappadocia, near the Cilician passes Establishing
the Assyrians, was under Caracalla Roman colony, as it to the realm of Zenobia

953

Tyburn - Tyler.

was conquered by Aurelian, 272 AD. Valens made it the capital of Cappadocia
Secunda. Ruins at today Kilisse Hissar.

Tyburn (pronounced teibörn),
formerly a creek and village on the north side of Hyde Park in London,
Until 1783, the public execution ground.  I believe she only pitied and loved me the more, and persevered
in the dreadful kindness that has no tact.

It did not strike me that pleasure might be good for Jaquetta, or that Fulk's stern silent
sorrow might have been lightened by variety. Used as he had been to political life and London
society, it was no small change to have merely the market for interest, the farm for occupation,
and no society but ourselves; no newspaper but the County Chronicle once a week; no new books,
for Mudie did not exist then, even if we could have afforded it.  We had dropped out of the
guinea country book club, and Knight's "Penny Magazine" was our only fresh literature. However,
Jaquetta never was much of a reader, and was full of business--queen of the poultry, and running
after the weakly ones half the day, supplementing George Sisson's very inadequate gardening--aye,
and his wife's equally rough cooking.  She found a receipt book, and turned out excellent dishes.
She could not bear, she said, to see Fulk try to eat grease, and with an effort at concealment,
assisted by the dogs, fall back upon bread and cheese. The female flowers have instead of the perianth numerous
bristles or three hypogynous scales. The ovaries are sessile or stalked, einblätterig, unilocular,
with a single hanging ovule anatropen and a simple, style terminal, which ends in a one-sided, tongue-shaped
scar. The fruits are mutual pressure angular, pointed by the pen, not jumping up, almost like
drupe because of the membranous and spongy Epi-and leather-or wood-like Endokarps.
  We were a mile from church, and when we got to the worm-eaten
farm pew there was a smell, as Jaquey said, as if generations of farmers had been eating cheese
there, and generations of mice eating after them; and she always longed to shut up a cat there.

The old curate was very old, and nothing seemed alive but the fiddles in the gallery--indeed,
after the "Penny Magazine" had made us acquainted with the Nibelung, Jaquey took to calling
Sisson, Folker the mighty fiddler, so determined were his strains.

After the great house was shut up, one service was dropped, and so the latter part of the day
was spent in a visit to all the livestock, Fulk laden with Alured, and Jaquetta with tit bits
for each and all. But he felt guilty and when you
took his hand, I felt as if you were partly responsible for his debt felt. But you have not yet dared to
stand up for him. What else is on this ancient Kram, Count Ungnad?


At least we thought we should have been at peace here; but one afternoon, when Jaquetta had
gone across to the village to see some purchase at the shop, she came back flushed and breathless,
and said as she sat down by me, "Oh! Ursie, Ursie, I met Miss Prior; and she has bought Spinney
Lawn."

