"You're stone-cold, ain't you? Just sit still and warm yourself while I run and get the kettle.
I've got something you always used to fancy for supper." She laid her hand on Evelina's shoulder.
"Don't talk--oh, don't talk yet!" she implored. She wanted to keep that one frail second of
happiness between herself and what she knew must come.

Evelina, without a word, bent over the fire, stretching her thin hands to the blaze and watching
Ann Eliza fill the kettle and set the supper table. Her gaze had the dreamy fixity of a half-awakened
child's.

Ann Eliza, with a smile of triumph, brought a slice of custard pie from the cupboard and put
it by her sister's plate.

"You do like that, don't you? Miss Mellins sent it down to me this morning. She had her aunt
from Brooklyn to dinner. Ain't it funny it just so happened?"

"I ain't hungry," said Evelina, rising to approach the table.

She sat down in her usual place, looked about her with the same wondering stare, and then,
as of old, poured herself out the first cup of tea.

"Where's the what-not gone to?" she suddenly asked.

Ann Eliza set down the teapot and rose to get a spoon from the cupboard. With her back to the
room she said: "The what-not? Why, you see, dearie, living here all alone by myself it only
made one more thing to dust; so I sold it."

Evelina's eyes were still travelling about the familiar room. Though it was against all the
traditions of the Bunner family to sell any household possession, she showed no surprise at
her sister's answer.

"And the clock? The clock's gone too."

"Oh, I gave that away--I gave it to Mrs. Hawkins. She's kep' awake so nights with that last baby."

"I wish you'd never bought it," said Evelina harshly.

Ann Eliza's heart grew faint with fear. Without answering, she crossed over to her sister's
seat and poured her out a second cup of tea. Then another thought struck her, and she went
back to the cupboard and took out the cordial. In Evelina's absence considerable draughts had
been drawn from it by invalid neighbours; but a glassful of the precious liquid still remained.

"Here, drink this right off--it'll warm you up quicker than anything," Ann Eliza said.

Evelina obeyed, and a slight spark of colour came into her cheeks. She turned to the custard
pie and began to eat with a silent voracity distressing to watch. She did not even look to
see what was left for Ann Eliza.

"I ain't hungry," she said at last as she laid down her fork. "I'm only so dead tired--that's
the trouble."

"Then you'd better get right into bed. Here's my old plaid dressing-gown--you remember it,
don't you?" Ann Eliza laughed, recalling Evelina's ironies on the subject of the antiquated
garment. With trembling fingers she began to undo her sister's cloak. The dress beneath it
told a tale of poverty that Ann Eliza dared not pause to note. She drew it gently off, and
as it slipped from Evelina's shoulders it revealed a tiny black bag hanging on a ribbon about
her neck. Evelina lifted her hand as though to screen the bag from Ann Eliza; and the elder
sister, seeing the gesture, continued her task with lowered eyes. She undressed Evelina as
quickly as she could, and wrapping her in the plaid dressing-gown put her to bed, and spread
her own shawl and her sister's cloak above the blanket.

"Where's the old red comfortable?" Evelina asked, as she sank down on the pillow.

"The comfortable? Oh, it was so hot and heavy I never used it after you went--so I sold that
too. I never could sleep under much clothes."

She became aware that her sister was looking at her more attentively.

"I guess you've been in trouble too," Evelina said.

"Me? In trouble? What do you mean, Evelina?"

"You've had to pawn the things, I suppose," Evelina continued in a weary unmoved tone. "Well,
I've been through worse than that. I've been to hell and back."

"Oh, Evelina--don't say it, sister!" Ann Eliza implored, shrinking from the unholy word. She
knelt down and began to rub her sister's feet beneath the bedclothes.

"I've been to hell and back--if I AM back," Evelina repeated. She lifted her head from the
pillow and began to talk with a sudden feverish volubility. "It began right away, less than
a month after we were married. I've been in hell all that time, Ann Eliza." She fixed her eyes
with passionate intentness on Ann Eliza's face. "He took opium. I didn't find it out till long
afterward--at first, when he acted so strange, I thought he drank. But it was worse, much worse
than drinking."

"Oh, sister, don't say it--don't say it yet! It's so sweet just to have you here with me again."

"I must say it," Evelina insisted, her flushed face burning with a kind of bitter cruelty.
"You don't know what life's like--you don't know anything about it--setting here safe all the
while in this peaceful place."

"Oh, Evelina--why didn't you write and send for me if it was like that?"

"That's why I couldn't write. Didn't you guess I was ashamed?"

"How could you be? Ashamed to write to Ann Eliza?"

Evelina raised herself on her thin elbow, while Ann Eliza, bending over, drew a corner of the
shawl about her shoulder.

"Do lay down again. You'll catch your death."

"My death? That don't frighten me! You don't know what I've been through." And sitting upright
in the old mahogany bed, with flushed cheeks and chattering teeth, and Ann Eliza's trembling
arm clasping the shawl about her neck, Evelina poured out her story. It was a tale of misery
and humiliation so remote from the elder sister's innocent experiences that much of it was
hardly intelligible to her. Evelina's dreadful familiarity with it all, her fluency about things
which Ann Eliza half-guessed and quickly shuddered back from, seemed even more alien and terrible
than the actual tale she told. It was one thing--and heaven knew it was bad enough!--to learn
that one's sister's husband was a drug-fiend; it was another, and much worse thing, to learn
from that sister's pallid lips what vileness lay behind the word.

Evelina, unconscious of any distress but her own, sat upright, shivering in Ann Eliza's hold,
while she piled up, detail by detail, her dreary narrative.

"The minute we got out there, and he found the job wasn't as good as he expected, he changed.
At first I thought he was sick--I used to try to keep him home and nurse him. Then I saw it
was something different. He used to go off for hours at a time, and when he came back his eyes
kinder had a fog over them. Sometimes he didn't har'ly know me, and when he did he seemed to
hate me. Once he hit me here." She touched her breast. "Do you remember, Ann Eliza, that time
he didn't come to see us for a week--the time after we all went to Central Park together--and
you and I thought he must be sick?"

Ann Eliza nodded.

"Well, that was the trouble--he'd been at it then. But nothing like as bad. After we'd been
out there about a month he disappeared for a whole week. They took him back at the store, and
gave him another chance; but the second time they discharged him, and he drifted round for
ever so long before he could get another job. We spent all our money and had to move to a cheaper
place. Then he got something to do, but they hardly paid him anything, and he didn't stay there
long. When he found out about the baby--"

"The baby?" Ann Eliza faltered.

"It's dead--it only lived a day. When he found out about it, he got mad, and said he hadn't
any money to pay doctors' bills, and I'd better write to you to help us. He had an idea you
had money hidden away that I didn't know about." She turned to her sister with remorseful eyes.
"It was him that made me get that hundred dollars out of you."

"Hush, hush. I always meant it for you anyhow."

"Yes, but I wouldn't have taken it if he hadn't been at me the whole time. He used to make
me do just what he wanted. Well, when I said I wouldn't write to you for more money he said
I'd better try and earn some myself. That was when he struck me.... Oh, you don't know what
I'm talking about yet!... I tried to get work at a milliner's, but I was so sick I couldn't
stay. I was sick all the time. I wisht I'd ha' died, Ann Eliza."

"No, no, Evelina."

"Yes, I do. It kept getting worse and worse. We pawned the furniture, and they turned us out
because we couldn't pay the rent; and so then we went to board with Mrs. Hochmuller."

Ann Eliza pressed her closer to dissemble her own tremor. "Mrs. Hochmuller?"

"Didn't you know she was out there? She moved out a month after we did. She wasn't bad to me,
and I think she tried to keep him straight--but Linda--"

"Linda--?"

"Well, when I kep' getting worse, and he was always off, for days at a time, the doctor had
me sent to a hospital."

"A hospital? Sister--sister!"

"It was better than being with him; and the doctors were real kind to me. After the baby was
born I was very sick and had to stay there a good while. And one day when I was laying there
Mrs. Hochmuller came in as white as a sheet, and told me him and Linda had gone off together
and taken all her money. That's the last I ever saw of him." She broke off with a laugh and
began to cough again.

Ann Eliza tried to persuade her to lie down and sleep, but the rest of her story had to be
told before she could be soothed into consent. After the news of Ramy's flight she had had
brain fever, and had been sent to another hospital where she stayed a long time--how long she
couldn't remember. Dates and days meant nothing to her in the shapeless ruin of her life. When
she left the hospital she found that Mrs. Hochmuller had gone too. She was penniless, and had
no one to turn to. A lady visitor at the hospital was kind, and found her a place where she
did housework; but she was so weak they couldn't keep her. Then she got a job as waitress in
a down-town lunch-room, but one day she fainted while she was handing a dish, and that evening
when they paid her they told her she needn't come again.

"After that I begged in the streets"--(Ann Eliza's grasp again grew tight)--"and one afternoon
last week, when the matinees was coming out, I met a man with a pleasant face, something like
Mr. Hawkins, and he stopped and asked me what the trouble was. I told him if he'd give me five
dollars I'd have money enough to buy a ticket back to New York, and he took a good look at
me and said, well, if that was what I wanted he'd go straight to the station with me and give
me the five dollars there. So he did--and he bought the ticket, and put me in the cars."

Evelina sank back, her face a sallow wedge in the white cleft of the pillow. Ann Eliza leaned
over her, and for a long time they held each other without speaking.

They were still clasped in this dumb embrace when there was a step in the shop and Ann Eliza,
starting up, saw Miss Mellins in the doorway.

"My sakes, Miss Bunner! What in the land are you doing? Miss Evelina--Mrs. Ramy--it ain't you?"

Miss Mellins's eyes, bursting from their sockets, sprang from Evelina's pallid face to the
disordered supper table and the heap of worn clothes on the floor; then they turned back to
Ann Eliza, who had placed herself on the defensive between her sister and the dress-maker.

"My sister Evelina has come back--come back on a visit. She was taken sick in the cars on the
way home--I guess she caught cold--so I made her go right to bed as soon as ever she got here."

Ann Eliza was surprised at the strength and steadiness of her voice. Fortified by its sound
she went on, her eyes on Miss Mellins's baffled countenance: "Mr. Ramy has gone west on a trip--a
trip connected with his business; and Evelina is going to stay with me till he comes back."

XII

What measure of belief her explanation of Evelina's return obtained in the small circle of
her friends Ann Eliza did not pause to enquire. Though she could not remember ever having told
a lie before, she adhered with rigid tenacity to the consequences of her first lapse from truth,
and fortified her original statement with additional details whenever a questioner sought to
take her unawares.

But other and more serious burdens lay on her startled conscience. For the first time in her
life she dimly faced the awful problem of the inutility of self-sacrifice. Hitherto she had
never thought of questioning the inherited principles which had guided her life. Self-effacement
for the good of others had always seemed to her both natural and necessary; but then she had
taken it for granted that it implied the securing of that good. Now she perceived that to refuse
the gifts of life does not ensure their transmission to those for whom they have been surrendered;
and her familiar heaven was unpeopled. She felt she could no longer trust in the goodness of
God, and there was only a black abyss above the roof of Bunner Sisters.

But there was little time to brood upon such problems. The care of Evelina filled Ann Eliza's
days and nights. The hastily summoned doctor had pronounced her to be suffering from pneumonia,
and under his care the first stress of the disease was relieved. But her recovery was only
partial, and long after the doctor's visits had ceased she continued to lie in bed, too weak
to move, and seemingly indifferent to everything about her.

At length one evening, about six weeks after her return, she said to her sister: "I don't feel's
if I'd ever get up again."

Ann Eliza turned from the kettle she was placing on the stove. She was startled by the echo
the words woke in her own breast.

"Don't you talk like that, Evelina! I guess you're on'y tired out--and disheartened."

"Yes, I'm disheartened," Evelina murmured.

A few months earlier Ann Eliza would have met the confession with a word of pious admonition;
now she accepted it in silence.

"Maybe you'll brighten up when your cough gets better," she suggested.

"Yes--or my cough'll get better when I brighten up," Evelina retorted with a touch of her old
tartness.

"Does your cough keep on hurting you jest as much?"

"I don't see's there's much difference."

"Well, I guess I'll get the doctor to come round again," Ann Eliza said, trying for the matter-of-course
tone in which one might speak of sending for the plumber or the gas-fitter.

"It ain't any use sending for the doctor--and who's going to pay him?"

"I am," answered the elder sister. "Here's your tea, and a mite of toast. Don't that tempt you?"

Already, in the watches of the night, Ann Eliza had been tormented by that same question--who
was to pay the doctor?--and a few days before she had temporarily silenced it by borrowing
twenty dollars of Miss Mellins. The transaction had cost her one of the bitterest struggles
of her life. She had never borrowed a penny of any one before, and the possibility of having
to do so had always been classed in her mind among those shameful extremities to which Providence
does not let decent people come. But nowadays she no longer believed in the personal supervision
of Providence; and had she been compelled to steal the money instead of borrowing it, she would
have felt that her conscience was the only tribunal before which she had to answer. Nevertheless,
the actual humiliation of having to ask for the money was no less bitter; and she could hardly
hope that Miss Mellins would view the case with the same detachment as herself. Miss Mellins
was very kind; but she not unnaturally felt that her kindness should be rewarded by according
her the right to ask questions; and bit by bit Ann Eliza saw Evelina's miserable secret slipping
into the dress-maker's possession.

When the doctor came she left him alone with Evelina, busying herself in the shop that she
might have an opportunity of seeing him alone on his way out. To steady herself she began to
sort a trayful of buttons, and when the doctor appeared she was reciting under her breath:
"Twenty-four horn, two and a half cards fancy pearl..." She saw at once that his look was grave.

He sat down on the chair beside the counter, and her mind travelled miles before he spoke.

"Miss Bunner, the best thing you can do is to let me get a bed for your sister at St. Luke's."

"The hospital?"

"Come now, you're above that sort of prejudice, aren't you?" The doctor spoke in the tone of
one who coaxes a spoiled child. "I know how devoted you are--but Mrs. Ramy can be much better
cared for there than here. You really haven't time to look after her and attend to your business
as well. There'll be no expense, you understand--"

Ann Eliza made no answer. "You think my sister's going to be sick a good while, then?" she asked.

"Well, yes--possibly."

"You think she's very sick?"

"Well, yes. She's very sick."

His face had grown still graver; he sat there as though he had never known what it was to hurry.

Ann Eliza continued to separate the pearl and horn buttons. Suddenly she lifted her eyes and
looked at him. "Is she going to die?"

The doctor laid a kindly hand on hers. "We never say that, Miss Bunner. Human skill works wonders--and
at the hospital Mrs. Ramy would have every chance."

"What is it? What's she dying of?"

The doctor hesitated, seeking to substitute a popular phrase for the scientific terminology
which rose to his lips.

"I want to know," Ann Eliza persisted.

"Yes, of course; I understand. Well, your sister has had a hard time lately, and there is a
complication of causes, resulting in consumption--rapid consumption. At the hospital--"

"I'll keep her here," said Ann Eliza quietly.

After the doctor had gone she went on for some time sorting the buttons; then she slipped the
tray into its place on a shelf behind the counter and went into the back room. She found Evelina
propped upright against the pillows, a flush of agitation on her cheeks. Ann Eliza pulled up
the shawl which had slipped from her sister's shoulders.

"How long you've been! What's he been saying?"

"Oh, he went long ago--he on'y stopped to give me a prescription. I was sorting out that tray
of buttons. Miss Mellins's girl got them all mixed up."

She felt Evelina's eyes upon her.

"He must have said something: what was it?"

"Why, he said you'd have to be careful--and stay in bed--and take this new medicine he's given
you."

"Did he say I was going to get well?"

"Why, Evelina!"

"What's the use, Ann Eliza? You can't deceive me. I've just been up to look at myself in the
glass; and I saw plenty of 'em in the hospital that looked like me. They didn't get well, and
I ain't going to." Her head dropped back. "It don't much matter--I'm about tired. On'y there's
one thing--Ann Eliza--"

The elder sister drew near to the bed.

"There's one thing I ain't told you. I didn't want to tell you yet because I was afraid you
might be sorry--but if he says I'm going to die I've got to say it." She stopped to cough,
and to Ann Eliza it now seemed as though every cough struck a minute from the hours remaining
to her.

"Don't talk now--you're tired."

"I'll be tireder to-morrow, I guess. And I want you should know. Sit down close to me--there."

Ann Eliza sat down in silence, stroking her shrunken hand.

"I'm a Roman Catholic, Ann Eliza."

"Evelina--oh, Evelina Bunner! A Roman Catholic--YOU? Oh, Evelina, did HE make you?"

Evelina shook her head. "I guess he didn't have no religion; he never spoke of it. But you
see Mrs. Hochmuller was a Catholic, and so when I was sick she got the doctor to send me to
a Roman Catholic hospital, and the sisters was so good to me there--and the priest used to
come and talk to me; and the things he said kep' me from going crazy. He seemed to make everything
easier."

"Oh, sister, how could you?" Ann Eliza wailed. She knew little of the Catholic religion except
that "Papists" believed in it--in itself a sufficient indictment. Her spiritual rebellion had
not freed her from the formal part of her religious belief, and apostasy had always seemed
to her one of the sins from which the pure in mind avert their thoughts.

"And then when the baby was born," Evelina continued, "he christened it right away, so it could
go to heaven; and after that, you see, I had to be a Catholic."

"I don't see--"

"Don't I have to be where the baby is? I couldn't ever ha' gone there if I hadn't been made
a Catholic. Don't you understand that?"

Ann Eliza sat speechless, drawing her hand away. Once more she found herself shut out of Evelina's
heart, an exile from her closest affections.

"I've got to go where the baby is," Evelina feverishly insisted.

Ann Eliza could think of nothing to say; she could only feel that Evelina was dying, and dying
as a stranger in her arms. Ramy and the day-old baby had parted her forever from her sister.

Evelina began again. "If I get worse I want you to send for a priest. Miss Mellins'll know
where to send--she's got an aunt that's a Catholic. Promise me faithful you will."

"I promise," said Ann Eliza.

After that they spoke no more of the matter; but Ann Eliza now understood that the little black
bag about her sister's neck, which she had innocently taken for a memento of Ramy, was some
kind of sacrilegious amulet, and her fingers shrank from its contact when she bathed and dressed
Evelina. It seemed to her the diabolical instrument of their estrangement.

XIII

Spring had really come at last. There were leaves on the ailanthus-tree that Evelina could
see from her bed, gentle clouds floated over it in the blue, and now and then the cry of a
flower-seller sounded from the street.

One day there was a shy knock on the back-room door, and Johnny Hawkins came in with two yellow
jonquils in his fist. He was getting bigger and squarer, and his round freckled face was growing
into a smaller copy of his father's. He walked up to Evelina and held out the flowers.

"They blew off the cart and the fellow said I could keep 'em. But you can have 'em," he announced.

Ann Eliza rose from her seat at the sewing-machine and tried to take the flowers from him.

"They ain't for you; they're for her," he sturdily objected; and Evelina held out her hand
for the jonquils.

After Johnny had gone she lay and looked at them without speaking. Ann Eliza, who had gone
back to the machine, bent her head over the seam she was stitching; the click, click, click
of the machine sounded in her ear like the tick of Ramy's clock, and it seemed to her that
life had gone backward, and that Evelina, radiant and foolish, had just come into the room
with the yellow flowers in her hand.

When at last she ventured to look up, she saw that her sister's head had drooped against the
pillow, and that she was sleeping quietly. Her relaxed hand still held the jonquils, but it
was evident that they had awakened no memories; she had dozed off almost as soon as Johnny
had given them to her. The discovery gave Ann Eliza a startled sense of the ruins that must
be piled upon her past. "I don't believe I could have forgotten that day, though," she said
to herself. But she was glad that Evelina had forgotten.

Evelina's disease moved on along the usual course, now lifting her on a brief wave of elation,
now sinking her to new depths of weakness. There was little to be done, and the doctor came
only at lengthening intervals. On his way out he always repeated his first friendly suggestion
about sending Evelina to the hospital; and Ann Eliza always answered: "I guess we can manage."

The hours passed for her with the fierce rapidity that great joy or anguish lends them. She
went through the days with a sternly smiling precision, but she hardly knew what was happening,
and when night-fall released her from the shop, and she could carry her work to Evelina's bedside,
the same sense of unreality accompanied her, and she still seemed to be accomplishing a task
whose object had escaped her memory.

Once, when Evelina felt better, she expressed a desire to make some artificial flowers, and
Ann Eliza, deluded by this awakening interest, got out the faded bundles of stems and petals
and the little tools and spools of wire. But after a few minutes the work dropped from Evelina's
hands and she said: "I'll wait until to-morrow."

She never again spoke of the flower-making, but one day, after watching Ann Eliza's laboured
attempt to trim a spring hat for Mrs. Hawkins, she demanded impatiently that the hat should
be brought to her, and in a trice had galvanized the lifeless bow and given the brim the twist
it needed.

These were rare gleams; and more frequent were the days of speechless lassitude, when she lay
for hours silently staring at the window, shaken only by the hard incessant cough that sounded
to Ann Eliza like the hammering of nails into a coffin.

At length one morning Ann Eliza, starting up from the mattress at the foot of the bed, hastily
called Miss Mellins down, and ran through the smoky dawn for the doctor. He came back with
her and did what he could to give Evelina momentary relief; then he went away, promising to
look in again before night. Miss Mellins, her head still covered with curl-papers, disappeared
in his wake, and when the sisters were alone Evelina beckoned to Ann Eliza.

"You promised," she whispered, grasping her sister's arm; and Ann Eliza understood. She had
not yet dared to tell Miss Mellins of Evelina's change of faith; it had seemed even more difficult
than borrowing the money; but now it had to be done. She ran upstairs after the dress-maker
and detained her on the landing.

"Miss Mellins, can you tell me where to send for a priest--a Roman Catholic priest?"

"A priest, Miss Bunner?"

"Yes. My sister became a Roman Catholic while she was away. They were kind to her in her sickness--and
now she wants a priest." Ann Eliza faced Miss Mellins with unflinching eyes.

"My aunt Dugan'll know. I'll run right round to her the minute I get my papers off," the dress-maker
promised; and Ann Eliza thanked her.

An hour or two later the priest appeared. Ann Eliza, who was watching, saw him coming down
the steps to the shop-door and went to meet him. His expression was kind, but she shrank from
his peculiar dress, and from his pale face with its bluish chin and enigmatic smile. Ann Eliza
remained in the shop. Miss Mellins's girl had mixed the buttons again and she set herself to
sort them. The priest stayed a long time with Evelina. When he again carried his enigmatic
smile past the counter, and Ann Eliza rejoined her sister, Evelina was smiling with something
of the same mystery; but she did not tell her secret.

After that it seemed to Ann Eliza that the shop and the back room no longer belonged to her.
It was as though she were there on sufferance, indulgently tolerated by the unseen power which
hovered over Evelina even in the absence of its minister. The priest came almost daily; and
at last a day arrived when he was called to administer some rite of which Ann Eliza but dimly
grasped the sacramental meaning. All she knew was that it meant that Evelina was going, and
going, under this alien guidance, even farther from her than to the dark places of death.

When the priest came, with something covered in his hands, she crept into the shop, closing
the door of the back room to leave him alone with Evelina.

It was a warm afternoon in May, and the crooked ailanthus-tree rooted in a fissure of the opposite
pavement was a fountain of tender green. Women in light dresses passed with the languid step
of spring; and presently there came a man with a hand-cart full of pansy and geranium plants
who stopped outside the window, signalling to Ann Eliza to buy.

An hour went by before the door of the back room opened and the priest reappeared with that
mysterious covered something in his hands. Ann Eliza had risen, drawing back as he passed.
He had doubtless divined her antipathy, for he had hitherto only bowed in going in and out;
but to day he paused and looked at her compassionately.

"I have left your sister in a very beautiful state of mind," he said in a low voice like a
woman's. "She is full of spiritual consolation."

Ann Eliza was silent, and he bowed and went out. She hastened back to Evelina's bed, and knelt
down beside it. Evelina's eyes were very large and bright; she turned them on Ann Eliza with
a look of inner illumination.

"I shall see the baby," she said; then her eyelids fell and she dozed.

The doctor came again at nightfall, administering some last palliatives; and after he had gone
Ann Eliza, refusing to have her vigil shared by Miss Mellins or Mrs. Hawkins, sat down to keep
watch alone.

It was a very quiet night. Evelina never spoke or opened her eyes, but in the still hour before
dawn Ann Eliza saw that the restless hand outside the bed-clothes had stopped its twitching.
She stooped over and felt no breath on her sister's lips.

The funeral took place three days later. Evelina was buried in Calvary Cemetery, the priest
assuming the whole care of the necessary arrangements, while Ann Eliza, a passive spectator,
beheld with stony indifference this last negation of her past.

A week afterward she stood in her bonnet and mantle in the doorway of the little shop. Its
whole aspect had changed. Counter and shelves were bare, the window was stripped of its familiar
miscellany of artificial flowers, note-paper, wire hat-frames, and limp garments from the dyer's;
and against the glass pane of the doorway hung a sign: "This store to let."

Ann Eliza turned her eyes from the sign as she went out and locked the door behind her. Evelina's
funeral had been very expensive, and Ann Eliza, having sold her stock-in-trade and the few
articles of furniture that remained to her, was leaving the shop for the last time. She had
not been able to buy any mourning, but Miss Mellins had sewed some crape on her old black mantle
and bonnet, and having no gloves she slipped her bare hands under the folds of the mantle.

It was a beautiful morning, and the air was full of a warm sunshine that had coaxed open nearly
every window in the street, and summoned to the window-sills the sickly plants nurtured indoors
in winter. Ann Eliza's way lay westward, toward Broadway; but at the corner she paused and
looked back down the familiar length of the street. Her eyes rested a moment on the blotched
"Bunner Sisters" above the empty window of the shop; then they travelled on to the overflowing
foliage of the Square, above which was the church tower with the dial that had marked the hours
for the sisters before Ann Eliza had bought the nickel clock. She looked at it all as though
it had been the scene of some unknown life, of which the vague report had reached her: she
felt for herself the only remote pity that busy people accord to the misfortunes which come
to them by hearsay.

She walked to Broadway and down to the office of the house-agent to whom she had entrusted
the sub-letting of the shop. She left the key with one of his clerks, who took it from her
as if it had been any one of a thousand others, and remarked that the weather looked as if
spring was really coming; then she turned and began to move up the great thoroughfare, which
was just beginning to wake to its multitudinous activities.

She walked less rapidly now, studying each shop window as she passed, but not with the desultory
eye of enjoyment: the watchful fixity of her gaze overlooked everything but the object of its
quest. At length she stopped before a small window wedged between two mammoth buildings, and
displaying, behind its shining plate-glass festooned with muslin, a varied assortment of sofa-cushions,
tea-cloths, pen-wipers, painted calendars and other specimens of feminine industry. In a corner
of the window she had read, on a slip of paper pasted against the pane: "Wanted, a Saleslady,"
and after studying the display of fancy articles beneath it, she gave her mantle a twitch,
straightened her shoulders and went in.

Behind a counter crowded with pin-cushions, watch-holders and other needlework trifles, a plump
young woman with smooth hair sat sewing bows of ribbon on a scrap basket. The little shop was
about the size of the one on which Ann Eliza had just closed the door; and it looked as fresh
and gay and thriving as she and Evelina had once dreamed of making Bunner Sisters. The friendly
air of the place made her pluck up courage to speak.

"Saleslady? Yes, we do want one. Have you any one to recommend?" the young woman asked, not
unkindly.

Ann Eliza hesitated, disconcerted by the unexpected question; and the other, cocking her head
on one side to study the effect of the bow she had just sewed on the basket, continued: "We
can't afford more than thirty dollars a month, but the work is light. She would be expected
to do a little fancy sewing between times. We want a bright girl: stylish, and pleasant manners.
You know what I mean. Not over thirty, anyhow; and nice-looking. Will you write down the name?"

Ann Eliza looked at her confusedly. She opened her lips to explain, and then, without speaking,
turned toward the crisply-curtained door.

"Ain't you going to leave the AD-dress?" the young woman called out after her. Ann Eliza went
out into the thronged street. The great city, under the fair spring sky, seemed to throb with
the stir of innumerable beginnings. She walked on, looking for another shop window with a sign
in it.

THE END.