Archaic and variable spellings are preserved.

      The author's punctuation style is preserved, except quotation
      marks, which have been standardized.

THE CONTINENTAL DRAGOON.

by

R. N. STEPHENS.

      *      *      *      *      *

Works of R. N. STEPHENS.

An Enemy to the King. The Continental Dragoon.

In Press: The Road to Paris.

L. C. PAGE AND COMPANY, Publishers, (INCORPORATED) 196 Summer St., Boston, Mass.

      *      *      *      *      *

THE CONTINENTAL DRAGOON

A Love Story of Philipse Manor-House in 1778

by

ROBERT NEILSON STEPHENS

Author of "An Enemy to the King"

Illustrated by H. C. Edwards

"Love's born of a glance, I say" The Manor-house                                           32
     III. The Sound of Galloping                                    50
      IV. The Continental Dragoon                                   65
       V. The Black Horse                                           87
      VI. The One Chance                                           116
     VII. The Flight of the Minutes                                140
    VIII. The Secret Passage                                       156
      IX. The Confession                                           180
       X. The Plan of Retaliation                                  197
      XI. The Conquest                                             214
     XII. The Challenge                                            236
    XIII. The Unexpected                                           252
     XIV. The Broken Sword                                         267

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

  "'Take that rebel alive!' ordered Colden."              Frontispiece

  "'Give it to the Colonel.'"                                       82
  "Leaned forward on the horse's neck."                            111
  "'You are too late, Jack!'"                                      154
  "'Go, I say!'"                                                   196
  "'I take my leave of this house!'"                               248

CHAPTER I.

THE RIDERS.

"I dare say 'tis a wild, foolish, dangerous thing; but I do it, nevertheless! As for my reasons,
they are the strongest. First, I wish to do it. Second, you've all opposed my doing it. So
there's an end of the matter!"

It was, of course, a woman that spoke,--moreover, a young one.

And she added:

"Drat the wind! Can't we ride faster? 'Twill be dark before we reach the manor-house. Get along,
Cato!"

She was one of three on horseback, who went northward on the Albany post-road late in the afternoon
of a gray, chill, blowy day in November, in the war-scourged year 1778. Beside the girl rode
a young gentleman, wrapped in a dark cloak. The third horse, which plodded a short distance
in the rear, carried a small negro youth and two large portmanteaus. The three riders made
a group that was, as far as could be seen from their view-point, alone on the highway.

There were reasons why such a group, on that road at that time, was an unusual sight,--reasons
familiar to any one who is well informed in the history of the Revolution. Unfortunately, most
good Americans are better acquainted with the French Revolution than with our own, know more
about the state of affairs in Rome during the reign of Nero than about the condition of things
in New York City during the British occupation, and compensate for their knowledge of Scotch-English
border warfare in remote times by their ignorance of the border warfare that ravaged the vicinity
of the island of Manhattan, for six years, little more than a century ago.

Our Revolutionary War had reached the respectable age of three and a half years. Lexington,
Bunker Hill, Brooklyn, Harlem Heights, White Plains, Trenton, Princeton, the Brandywine, German-town,
Bennington, Saratoga, and Monmouth--not to mention events in the South and in Canada and on
the water--had taken their place in history. The army of the King of England had successively
occupied Boston, New York, and Philadelphia; had been driven out of Boston by siege, and had
left Philadelphia to return to the town more pivotal and nearer the sea,--New York. One British
commander-in-chief had been recalled by the British ministry to explain why he had not crushed
the rebellion, and one British major-general had surrendered an army, and was now back in England
defending his course and pleading in Parliament the cause of the Americans, to whom he was
still a prisoner on parole. Our Continental army--called Continental because, like the general
Congress, it served the whole union of British-settled Colonies or States on this continent,
and was thus distinguished from the militia, which served in each case its particular Colony
or State only--had experienced both defeats and victories in encounters with the King's troops
and his allies, German, Hessian, and American Tory. It had endured the winter at Valley Forge
while the British had fed, drunk, gambled, danced, flirted, and wenched in Philadelphia. The
French alliance had been sanctioned. Steuben, Lafayette, DeKalb, Pulaski, Kosciusko, Armand,
and other Europeans, had taken service with us. One plot had been made in Congress and the
army to supplant Washington in the chief command, and had failed. The treason of General Charles
Lee had come to naught,--but was to wait for disclosure till many years after every person
concerned should be graveyard dust. We had celebrated two anniversaries of the Fourth of July.
The new free and independent States had organized local governments. The King's appointees
still made a pretence of maintaining the royal provincial governments, but mostly abode under
the protection of the King's troops in New York. There also many of those Americans in the
North took refuge who distinctly professed loyalty to the King. New York was thus the chief
lodging-place of all that embodied British sovereignty in America. Naturally the material tokens
of British rule radiated from the town, covering all of the island of Manhattan, most of Long
Island, and all of Staten Island, and retaining a clutch here and there on the mainland of
New Jersey.

It was the present object of Washington to keep those visible signs of English authority penned
up within this circle around New York. The Continental posts, therefore, formed a vast arc,
extending from the interior of New Jersey through Southeastern New York State to Long Island
Sound and into Connecticut. This had been the situation since midsummer of 1778. It was but
a detachment from our main army that had cooperated with the French fleet in the futile attempt
to dislodge a British force from Newport in August of that year.

The British commander-in-chief and most of the superior officers had their quarters in the
best residences of New York. That town was packed snugly into the southern angle of the island
of Manhattan, like a gift in the toe of a Christmas stocking. Southward, some of its finest
houses looked across the Battery to the bay. Northward the town extended little beyond the
common fields, of which the City Hall Square of 1898 is a reduced survival. The island of Manhattan--with
its hills, woods, swamps, ponds, brooks, roads, farms, sightly estates, gardens, and orchards--was
dotted with the cantonments and garrisoned forts of the British. The outposts were, largely,
entrusted to bodies of Tory allies organized in this country. Thus was much of Long Island
guarded by the three Loyalist battalions of General Oliver De Lancey, himself a native of New
York. On Staten Island was quartered General Van Cortlandt Skinner's brigade of New Jersey
Volunteers, a troop which seems to have had such difficulty in finding officers in its own
State that it had to go to New York for many of them,--or was it that so many more rich New
York Loyalists had to be provided with commissions than the New York Loyalist brigades required
as officers?

But the most important British posts were those which guarded the northern entrance to the
island of Manhattan, where it was separated from the mainland by Spuyten Duyvel Kill, flowing
westward into the Hudson, and the Harlem, flowing southward into the East River. King's Bridge
and the Farmers' Bridge, not far apart, joined the island to the main; and just before the
Revolution a traveller might have made his choice of these two bridges, whether he wished to
take the Boston road or the road to Albany. In 1778 the British "barrier" was King's Bridge,
the northern one of the two, the watch-house being the tavern at the mainland end of the bridge.
Not only the bridge, but the Hudson, the Spuyten Duyvel, and the Harlem, as well, were commanded
by British forts on the island of Manhattan. Yet there were defences still further out. On
the mainland was a line of forts extending from the Hudson, first eastward, then southward,
to the East River. Further north, between the Albany road and the Hudson, was a camp of German
and Hessian allies, foot and horse. Northeast, on Valentine's Hill, were the Seventy-first
Highlanders. Near the mainland bank of the Harlem were the quarters of various troops of dragoons,
most of them American Tory corps with English commanders, but one, at least, native to the
soil, not only in rank and file, but in officers also,--and with no less dash and daring than
by Tarleton, Simcoe, and the rest, was King George III. served by Captain James De Lancey,
of the county of West Chester, with his "cowboys," officially known as the West Chester Light
Horse.

Thus the outer northern lines of the British were just above King's Bridge. The principal camp
of the Americans was far to the north. Each army was affected by conditions that called for
a wide space of territory between the two forces, between the outer rim of the British circle,
and the inner face of the American arc. Of this space the portion that lay bounded on the west
by the Hudson, on the southeast by Long Island Sound, and cut in two by the southward-flowing
Bronx, was the most interesting. It was called the Neutral Ground, and neutral it was in that
it had the protection of neither side, while it was ravaged by both. Foraged by the two armies,
under the approved rules of war, it underwent further a constant, irregular pillage by gangs
of mounted rascals who claimed attachment, some to the British, some to the Americans, but
were not owned by either. It was, too, overridden by the cavalry of both sides in attempts
to surprise outposts, cut off supplies, and otherwise harass and sting. Unexpected forays by
the rangers and dragoons from King's Bridge and the Harlem were reciprocated by sudden visitations
of American horse and light infantry from the Greenburg Hills and thereabove. The Whig militia
of the county also took a hand against British Tories and marauders. Of the residents, many
Tories fled to New York, some Americans went to the interior of the country, but numbers of
each party held their ground, at risk of personal harm as well as of robbery. Many of the best
houses were, at different times during the war, occupied as quarters by officers of either
side. Little was raised on the farms save what the farmers could immediately use or easily
conceal. The Hudson was watched by British war-vessels, while the Americans on their side patrolled
it with whale-boats, long and canoe-like, swift and elusive. For the drama of partisan warfare,
Nature had provided, in lower West Chester County,--picturesquely hilly, beautifully wooded,
pleasantly watered, bounded in part by the matchless Hudson and the peerless Sound,--a setting
unsurpassed.

Thus was it that Miss Elizabeth Philipse, Major John Colden, and Miss Philipse's negro boy,
Cuff, all riding northward on the Albany post-road, a few miles above King's Bridge, but still
within territory patrolled daily by the King's troops, constituted, on that bleak November
evening in 1778, a group unusual to the time and place.

'Twas a wettish wind, concerning which Miss Elizabeth expressed, in the imperative mood, her
will that it be dratted,--a feminine wind, truly, as was clear from its unexpected flarings
up and sudden calmings down, its illogical whiskings around and eccentric changes of direction.
Now it swept down the slope from the east, as if it meant to bombard the travellers with all
the brown leaves of the hillside. Now it assailed them from the north, as if to impede their
journey; now rushed on them from the rear as if it had come up from New York to speed them
on their way; now attacked them in the left flank, armed with a raw chill from the Hudson.
It blew Miss Elizabeth's hair about and additionally reddened her cheeks. It caused the young
Tory major to frown, for the protection of his eyes, and thus to look more and more unlike
the happy man that Miss Elizabeth's accepted suitor ought to have appeared.

"I make no doubt I've brought on me the anger of your whole family by lending myself to this.
And yet I am as much against it as they are!" So spake the major, in tones as glum as his looks.

"'Twas a choice, then, between their anger and mine," said Miss Elizabeth, serenely. "Don't
think I wouldn't have come, even if you had refused your escort. I'd have made the trip alone
with Cuff, that's all."

"I shall be blamed, none the less."

"Why? You couldn't have hindered me. If the excursion is as dangerous as they say it is, your
company certainly does not add to my danger. It lessens it. So, as my safety is what they all
clamor about, they ought to commend you for escorting me."

"If they were like ever to take that view, they would not all have refused you their own company."

"They refused because they neither supposed that I would come alone nor that Providence would
send me an escort in the shape of a surly major on leave of absence from Staten Island! Come,
Jack, you needn't tremble in dread of their wrath. By this time my amiable papa and my solicitous
mamma and my anxious brothers and sisters are in such a state of mind about me that, when you
return to-night and report I've been safely consigned to Aunt Sally's care, they'll fairly
worship you as a messenger of good news. So be as cheerful as the wind and the cold will let
you. We are almost there. It seems an age since we passed Van Cortlandt's."

Major Colden merely sighed and looked more dismal, as if knowing the futility of speech.

"There's the steeple!" presently cried the girl, looking ahead. "We'll be at the parsonage
in ten minutes, and safe in the manor-house in five more. Do look relieved, Jack! The journey's
end is in sight, and we haven't had sight of a soldier this side of King's Bridge,--except
Van Wrumb's Hessians across Tippett's Vale, and they are friends. Br-r-r-r! I'll have Williams
make a fire in every room in the manor-house!"

Now while these three rode in seeming security from the south towards the church, parsonage,
country tavern, and great manor-house that constituted the village then called, sometimes Lower
Philipsburgh and sometimes Younker's, that same hill-varied, forest-set, stream-divided place
was being approached afar from the north by a company of mounted troops riding as if the devil
was after them. It was not the devil, but another body of cavalry, riding at equal speed, though
at a great distance behind. The three people from New York as yet neither saw nor heard anything
of these horsemen dashing down from the north. Yet the major's spirits sank lower and lower,
as if he had an omen of coming evil.

He was a handsome young man, Major John Colden, being not more than twenty-seven years old,
and having the clearly outlined features best suited to that period of smooth-shaven faces.
His dark eyes and his pensive expression were none the less effective for the white powder
on his cued hair. A slightly petulant, uneasy look rather added to his countenance. He was
of medium height and regular figure. He wore a civilian's cloak or outer coat over the uniform
of his rank and corps, thus hiding also his sword and pistol. Other externals of his attire
were riding-boots, gloves, and a three-cornered hat without a military cockade. He was mounted
on a sorrel horse a little darker in hue than the animal ridden by Miss Elizabeth's black boy,
Cuff, who wore the rich livery of the Philipses.

The steed of Miss Elizabeth was a slender black, sensitive and responsive to her slightest
command--a fit mount for this, the most imperious, though not the oldest, daughter of Colonel
Frederick Philipse, third lord, under the bygone royal régime, of the manor of Philipsburgh
in the Province of New York. They gave classic names to quadrupeds in those days and Addison's
tragedy was highly respected, so Elizabeth's scholarly father had christened this horse Cato.
Howsoever the others who loved her regarded her present jaunt, no opposition was shown by Cato.
Obedient now as ever, the animal bore her zealously forward, be it to danger or to what she would.

Elizabeth's resolve to revisit the manor hall on the Hudson, which had been left closed up
in the steward's charge when the family had sought safety in their New York City residence
in 1777, had sprung in part from a powerful longing for the country and in part from a dream
which had reawakened strongly her love for the old house of her birth and of most of her girlhood.
The peril of her resolve only increased her determination to carry it out. Her parents, brothers,
and sisters stood aghast at the project, and refused in any way to countenance it. But there
was no other will in the Philipse household able to cope with Elizabeth's. She held that the
thing was most practicable and simple, inasmuch as the steward, with the aid of two servants,
kept the deserted house in a state of habitation, and as her mother's sister, Miss Sarah Williams,
was living with the widow Babcock in the parsonage of Lower Philipsburgh and could transfer
her abode to the manor-house for the time of Elizabeth's stay. Major Colden, an unloved lover,--for
Elizabeth, accepting marriage as one of the inevitables, yet declared that she could never
love any man, love being admittedly a weakness, and she not a weak person,--was ever watchful
for the opportunity of ingratiating himself with the superb girl, and so fearful of displeasing
her that he dared not refuse to ride with her. He was less able even than her own family to
combat her purpose. One day some one had asked him why, since she called him Jack, and he was
on the road to thirty years, while she was yet in her teens, he did not call her Betty or Bess,
as all other Elizabeths were called in those days. He meditated a moment, then replied, "I
never heard any one, even in her own family, call her so. I can't imagine any one ever calling
her by any more familiar name than Elizabeth."

Now it was not from her father that this regal young creature could have taken her resoluteness,
though she may well have got from him some of the pride that went with it. There certainly
must have been more pride than determination in Frederick Philipse, third lord of the manor,
colonel in provincial militia before the Revolution, graduate of King's College, churchman,
benefactor, gentleman of literary tastes; amiable, courtly, and so fat that he and his handsome
wife could not comfortably ride in the same coach at the same time. 

It was especially Ludwig Boerne, a match for sure, the accumulated these allegations. Lessing says
in a letter that he was in danger of being angry and despite the genius of Goethe, what these
so-pounding, to tie. Half a century later met a kindred spirit Lessing's threat against the powerful
meanwhile become a poet. In ever-renewed thrown Remarks he comes back to Goethe, he confesses to have
hated from the start, and throws from the heat of his noble heart, consumed with his martyrdom in life,
luminous balls of fire in Goethe's art installations. Goethe calls, he would have made, can be a Herculean,
his country get rid of large debris, but he just got the golden apples of the Hesperides, which
he kept to himself, and then he sat down at the feet of Omphale and sat there. How different
lived and worked the great poets and orators of Italy, France and England! And now he takes the
example of Dante, Alfieri, Montesquieu, Voltaire, Rousseau, Milton etc to. The fearless incorruptible
judge, he said another time, is Goethe ask you was an excellent spirit, have you ever ashamed
of the meanness? The sky gave you a Tongue of fire, have you ever defended the law? You had a good
sword, but you were always only your own monitor! If God's thunder roll and crush the squeaking
of the little people down there, then listens a noble heart, and cheers, and adores and who is
anxiously listening, and is quiet and pray, but the Daemisch clogged ears and not listen and pray not,
and pray not. Schiller wrote during the hot days of the French Revolution in the announcement
of the Hours: Excellent, however, and absolutely everything in the magazine To prohibit referring
to the state religion and political constitution. So said and thought also, he Goethe, anxious
hineinwühlt than a mouse at the slightest noise in the earth and air, light, freedom, and even
of life wide, that even the stones totgeschaffenen Desiring all surrenders everything to nibble
only intact in the hole in his stolen bacon thread to. Today when I went to Weimar, he wrote in a letter,
and there before me lay with its red roofs in the cold winter sunshine and friendly, and I thought
that Goethe lived in it for longer than fifty years, that he never left because I was overcome again
the resentment against this tame, patient, toothless Genius. Like an eagle appeared he told
me that angenistet under the eaves of a tailor. And such a man should but a carnivorous animal
and are not eating like a sparrow barley, even from the best hand. And Goethe's day, and year
books from 1790, he shouts: What? Goethe, a richly gifted Man, a poet, then in the most beautiful
years of life, where the young man beside the man stands where the tree of knowledge also emblazoned
with flowers and fruits, he was in the war rate He was in the camp of the Titans, where forty
years ago but the cheeky, yet sublime struggle the kings and peoples began, and inspired him to do this
play, no love At no hatred, no to prayers at no cursing, nothing to it as it drove to some poems
sting, so worthless after his own estimation, that he did not even kept to inform the reader? And when
the splendid regiments, the most beautiful Officers went past him, as the same as the pale
young wife of an old man offered his spirit of observation no other material is no better than
the comparative anatomy? And when he was strolling in Venice on the banks of the sea, Venice,
a constructed tale from the Thousand and a night when everything sounds and sparkles, nature and
art, man and state, past and present, freedom and rule, where even tyranny and murder just
like chains in a eerie ballad jingle, the Bridge of Sighs, the ten men, there are scenes from
the fabulous Tartarus, Venice, where I'm longing glances turn, but he does not dare to come near,
Austrian police because the snake is mounted in front of me and quenched with toxic Eyes back down,
the sun had set, the setting sun flooded land and sea and the purple waves of light hit the
rocky man and glorified the eternal horror Werther's spirit and perhaps came over him and then
he felt that he still had a heart that there is a humanity about him, a God above him, and he probably
was shocked over the firing his heart was horrified to think about the spirit of his dead youth,
the hair stood him "on end and there in his agony," in the usual way to get rid of all reflections
He crawled into hiding in a sheep's skull cracked and stayed there until again Night and chill
come over his heart! And the man I am to worship? the love I do? etc

In order to assess these allegations, it is necessary, the century, lived in the Goethe and the
Nation that had produced him, just to draw.

The eighteenth century, followed by the three main nations of Europe a very different Direction:
it was industrially in England, France emancipatory, aesthetically in Germany. The eighteenth
century brought England to the colossal industry, which now wonder
the world; then started from small beginnings, the cotton production,
the pottery, the steel and iron processing and increased with rapid
growth to its current level.

In industrial districts, small spots, poor fishing villages in a few years powerful factory
towns, all counties were turned into vast rauchumhüllte workshops.

Industrial genius occurred, by inventions of all kinds, by untiring perseverance the most important
branches in the silence gave a quick swing. An improved method urged the other, a machine to another.
In the same proportion with the development of Industry rose to the maritime and colonial power
Britain. England conquered India, the great Anglo-Indian empire was founded and the French, Spaniards,
and recently the Dutch torn from all their colonies. The North American War of Independence
but this seemed to growth to want to stop, one of the most important colonies had broken loose
and France gained new advantages. But the protracted battles with the French Revolution and Napoleon took
England to the ruler of all oceans, if we except Cuba, which Spain remained, and Java, which saved
the Dutch, so were all significant, ranging Branches in all parts of the world and all the important
naval stations in England's hands over, it took hold in the Mediterranean Sea, the Levant
trade tore at and opened in Central and South America, by favoring the waste of the Spanish Dependencies.
So made the eighteenth-century England in a larger scale to that which in the seventeenth century
Holland had been.

A very different mission was to fulfill the century in France. Here was political and religious
emancipation of the item to which flocked all the national forces. After the formal Classical music
under Louis XIV was the Regent and Louis XV Criticism and skepticism in every field dominant.
What Descartes has been in the forefront had "de omnibus dubitandum = = est," which indicates
that Pierre Bayle with a keen acumen although had begun, so here, which was now of Voltaire,
Rousseau and the Encyclopedists fully put into effect. It was the century of enlightenment,
which everywhere with the light of humanity and philosophy to banish the ghosts of superstition and the
shackles of barbaric sought to break traditions.

Under the banner of the ideas reason, nature, humanity, freedom, with the weapons of ridicule,
of eloquence and the criticism was a victorious battle with the dogmas and the hierarchy of the
Church and the political institutions out. Deism, who had had no national roots in England, and
was soon dead, was in France raised to the popular cause of the century. Montesquieu, who already
in his lettres persanes = = the Church had taken sensitive, steered by its esprit des lois the
eyes of Nation from the state; Rousseau studied in its social contract = = underpin the political Society,
Voltaire, the supreme ruler of his time was, throughout his long life with the monsters of darkness
in battle, he ordered the playing and the subdued encyclopaedists everything given the dekomponierenden
operations of their minds; undermined by Beaumarchais his comedy "The Marriage of Figaro," the
nobility: as adopted in all the subject's autonomy to complete and nothing was more than justify
what the right reason and common sense could. While in England along with the industrialism and
the growing prosperity of the people dark Methodism spread, the High Church froze the oligarchy and
Kastensonderung is fixed, the state remained a greenhouse and irrational customs, opinions and Customs
of the Middle Ages and the scholastic its rule asserted, broke France Bastille and the nobility
locks down, raised on the night of the 4th August all feudal privileges on, one inoculated by Jefferson
America's democracy, said the blacks of St. Domingo for freedom and ran through with ideas
and armies of the world.

Quite differently designed the task to the solution of Germany in this century worked. She was
not commercially as in England, nor progressiste as in France, but aesthetic and metaphysical,
and the inner freedom and beauty of the mind was the Goal, which hovered in the best of the outer
mindless forms defunct nation.

In the hustle and national life in the Age of Reformation spiritual paralysis was followed.
The Universities of which in the sixteenth century assumed some fresh movement was now were the
places where the spiritual darkness was maintained most carefully. Dead Formalism and barbaric
scholasticism seized upon where the living science, the common craft
was sunk and the aspiring spirit, where he only its wings to stir
sought, with brilliant loose mechanism depressed and pushed back into
the formula of orthodoxy.

The school traditions were maintained in the universities with pedantic despotism; went up
from the catheters with rigid severity of the drought and mindless, and sometimes by Obscenity-spiced
paragraphs and quote wisdom. The narrow mind of the corporation closed the Universities on
the people and life from.

This spirit was evident in the ridiculous Stiffness and solemn dignity of the university teachers,
among whom there was the jealousy (In fact, they often struggled with hunger), and in the appalling
brutality and Pennalism the boy's life, the ideal swing without licenses in the brutal civil
life just completed was facing. Everywhere was the vernacular instead of the real body Scholasticism,
the Latin in use. Leibniz says: = in Germania inter alias causas ideo fixior scholastica est
philosophia, quod ne nunc quidem satis et sero Germanic philosophari coeptum est =. Latin was the
thick wall between the people and the scholars: that knew nothing of the subtleties and learned
they could neither ridicule nor healthy Common sense to oppose, which robbed the fact itself
a clear view into life and built, as Schlosser puts it, in the dark, their houses of cards
that inhabit only dreamer could. Even the literary journals, but for the living needs of the
day and for knowledge of all charges, appeared in Latin, which is custom to deep into the eighteenth
century was: while in France and England, the local Languages ​​had already exhibit a classic scientific
prose, as for example in Paris, the journal of the = = sçavans appeared in French, there was
a Latin in Leipzig Literary journal under the name = = acta eruditorum in Hamburg a different
literaria Germaniae nova = = etc. The journal = of = sçavans was in Germany by Professor Nitzsch
into Latin translated and still in the middle of the eighteenth century saw the philosopher
Wolff forced to do with his German logic written the same in order to his learned brethren
to the public. When it Thomasius in 1688 in Halle ventured into his lectures German Language to announce
the scandal was enormous, and from all sides met incitement and contempt the bold violators of
guild laws: one said his step with schadenfrohem conceit from his ignorance in Latin. But the science,
the influence of the saddest life and all other sciences paralyzed, was the theology. The
fresh religious Polemics of the Reformation had the rigid forms of a blind and fanatical orthodoxy
left as a precipitate. Wayward theologians arguing over secondary points of the final dogmatic
system with a ferocity and tenacity, in addition to what each other truly fruitful intellectual
work was suffocated. In uniform orthodoxy of all catheters taught and preached from every pulpit. Every
bit of free-thinking head was by tracking forced to silence and when he resisted, founded the secular
sword to help. The mutual hatred of Lutherans and Reformed was almost worse than their combined against
The Catholic Church and the Protestant courts had the same court preacher influential and intriguing
role as confessors to the Catholic. This dry Scholastic theology against the Catholic Church could
at least from the rich treasure their draw ancient mysticism, art and liturgy and fanaticism gave the
Lutheran zealots Kanzelpolemiker and the Jesuits and the Roman priests of the worst times for nothing.
Almost the same as blind positivism in theology prevailed in the jurisprudence. What in the
formula of the symbol was, here is the formula of Roman law. The lively, with the popular consciousness
was as intricate legal wisdom to the character of a completed Become guild. One is seized
by horror when you take a look at the former Forensics throws. Not only are the processes covered
by all the turns of the formalism with endless Slowness in the length, but no clue about the inner
psyche of the criminal, of the motives and mental suffering that led to the crimes of the social
and political Damages were symptom it was, with the use of torture and extorted confessions, horrible
cruel executions has. The Faculty of Law, where the document sent for review have competed in inhumane
decisions. The monstrous birth, but that the positive law and the positive theology in common embrace
generated were the horrific witch trials, which were in the seventeenth century in Germany often
and survived into the eighteenth century theological darkness and barbarism legal worked together
in them. The philosophy was still the most miserable, depressed = ancilla theologiae =; soon
occupied with the curse, sometimes used in formal business, she took the bandage the sciences
about the location where as the Jews in the political associations. Leibniz turned in his
superb, versatile effectiveness more to the courts and foreign and used its writings of the
Latin and French, considerate, gentle, timid as he was, he inspired the broad ruling dogmatism
no concern one. Until the middle of the eighteenth century the Leibnizian philosophy under systematic
understanding of the figure who had given her Christian Wolff, the other sciences to rationalize.
In the hands of philology that time turned the treasures ancient dead in rock and formed a more weight
to depress the spirit. Far removed by the ideal humanity, which consists of the writings and
art works of the Greeks talks to resolve the frozen refreshing and exciting pulse of the nation,
had the philologists little idea of ​​the true life of those peoples that the object of their
scholarly efforts were. was not until the second half of the eighteenth century by Heyne in Göttingen
the dry grammatical-sized commentators Quote learning, especially their headquarters Saxony, was tempered
by the aesthetic direction, only Friedrich August Wolf emancipated philology as his own science
from the lowly position of a theological and pedagogical Means, except for Butt man were the
grammatical rules are not in the classics, but mostly abstracted from the New Testament.
 The old part and its decorations
were Dutch, but now things in the province were growing less Dutch and more English,--like
the Philipse name and blood themselves,--and so the new embellishments were English. The second
lord imported marble mantels from England, had the walls beautifully wainscoted, adorned the
ceilings richly with arabesque work in wood. He laid out, in the best English fashion, a lawn
between the eastern front and the Albany post-road. He it was who married Joanna, daughter
of Governor Anthony Brockholst, of a very ancient family of Lancashire, England; and who left
provision for the founding of St. John's Church, across the Neperan from the manor-house, and
for the endowment of the glebe thereof. And in his long time the manor-house flourished and
grew venerable and multiplied its associations. He had five children: Frederick (Elizabeth's
father), Philip, Susannah, Mary (the beauty, wooed of Washington in 1756, 'tis said, and later
wed by Captain Roger Morris), and Margaret; and, at this manor-house alone, white servants
thirty, and black servants twenty; and a numerous tenantry, happy because in many cases the
yearly rent was but nominal, being three or four pounds or a pair of hens or a day's work,--for
the Philipses, thanks to trade and to office-holding under the Crown, and to the beneficent
rule whereby money multiplies itself, did not have to squeeze a living out of the tillers of
their land. The lord of the manor held court leet and baron at the house of a tenant, and sometimes
even inflicted capital punishment.

In 1751, the second lord followed his grandfather to the family vault in Sleepy Hollow Church.
With the accession of Elizabeth's father, then thirty-one years old, began the splendid period
of the mansion; then the panorama of which it was both witness and setting wore its most diverse
colors. The old contest between English and French on this continent was approaching its glorious
climax. Whether they were French emissaries coming down from Quebec, by the Hudson or by horse,
or English and colonial officers going up from New York in command of troops, they must needs
stop and pay their respects to the lord of the manor of Philipsburgh, and drink his wine, and
eat his venison, and flirt with his stunning sisters. Soldiers would go from New York by the
post-road to Philipsburgh, and then embark at the little landing, to proceed up the Hudson,
on the way to be scalped by the red allies of the French or mowed down by Montcalm's gunners
before impregnable Ticonderoga. Many were the comings and goings of the scarlet coat and green.
The Indian, too, was still sufficiently plentiful to contribute much to the environing picturesqueness.
But, most of all, in those days, the mansion got its character from the festivities devised
by its own inmates for the entertainment of the four hundred of that time.

For Elizabeth's mother, of the same given name, was "very fond of display," and in her day
the family "lived showily." Her husband (who was usually called Colonel Philipse, from his
title in the militia, and rarely if ever called lord) had the house refurnished. It was he
who had the princely terraces made on the slope between the mansion and the Hudson, and who
had new gardens laid out and adorned with tall avenues of box and rarest fruit-trees and shrubs.
Doubtless his deer, in their picketed enclosure, were a sore temptation to the country marksmen
who passed that way. Lady, or Madam, or Mrs. Philipse, the colonel's wife, bedazzled the admiring
inhabitants of West Chester County in many ways, but there is a difference between authorities
as to whether it was she that used to drive four superb black horses over the bad roads of
the county, or whether it was her mother-in-law, the second lord's wife. Certainly it was the
latter that was killed by a fall from a carriage, and certainly both had fine horses and magnificent
coaches, and drove over bad roads,--for all roads were bad in those days, even in Europe, save
those the Romans left.

Of all the gay and hospitable occasions that brought, through the mansion's wide doors, courtly
gentlemen and high-and-mighty ladies, from their coaches, sleighs, horses, or Hudson sloops,
perhaps none saw more feasting and richer display of ruffles and brocade than did the wedding
of Mary Philipse and Captain Morris, seven years after the death of her father, and two after
the marriage of her brother. It was on the afternoon of Sunday, Jan. 15, 1758. In the famous
east parlor, which has had much mention and will have more in course of this narrative, was
raised a crimson canopy emblazoned with the Philipse crest,--a crowned golden demi-lion rampant,
upon a golden coronet. Though the weather was not severe, there was snow on the ground, and
the guests began to drive up in sleighs, under the white trees, at two o'clock. At three arrived
the Rev. Henry Barclay, rector of Trinity, New York, and his assistant, Mr. Auchmuty. At half-past
three the beauteous Mary (did so proud a heart-breaker blush, I wonder?) and the British captain
stood under the crimson canopy and gold, and were united, "in the presence of a brilliant assembly,"
says the old county historian.[1] Miss Barclay, Miss Van Cortlandt, and Miss De Lancey were
the bridesmaids, and the groomsmen were Mr. Heathcote (of the family of the lords of the manor
of Scarsdale), Captain Kennedy (of Number One, Broadway), and Mr. Watts. No need to report
here who were "among those present." The wedding did not occur yesterday, and the guests will
not be offended at the omission of their names; but one of them was Acting Governor De Lancey.
Colonel Philipse--wearing the ancestral gold chain and jewelled badge of the keepers of the
deer forests of Bohemia--gave the bride away, and with her went a good portion of the earth's
surface, and much money, jewelry, and plate.

After the wedding came the feast, and the guests--or most of them--stayed so late they were
not sorry for the brilliant moonlight of the night that set in upon their feasting. And now
the legend! In the midst of the feast, there appeared at the door of the banquet-hall a tall
Indian, with a scarlet blanket close about him, and in solemn tones quoth he, "Your possessions
shall pass from you when the eagle shall despoil the lion of his mane." Thereupon he disappeared,
of course, as suddenly as he had come, and the way in which historians have treated this legend
shows how little do historians apply to their work the experiences of their daily lives,--such
an experience, for instance, as that of ignoring some begging Irishwoman's request for "a few
pennies in the Lord's name," and thereupon receiving a volley of hair-raising curses and baleful
predictions. 'Tis easy to believe in the Indian and the prophecy of a passing of possessions,
even though it was fulfilled; but the time-clause involving the eagle and the lion was doubtless
added after the bird had despoiled the beast.

It was years and years afterward, and when and because the eagle had decided to attempt the
said despoiling, that there was a change of times at Philipse Manor Hall. With
the pretty princess, but that was different and it could not free, his wanted to attach application,
lack of proper courage. The royal maid had in fact very quick feet, and so her father firmly
assured that she would not marry them until they could find a suitor who was equally swift, and
he with her not only to race, but it also could walk past a piece. Well, that would further hurt
anything if the race is not yet another condition would have involved, namely, that each suitor,
whose steps to the Virgin could not overtake immediately lose his life should. True, we must
wonder, that nevertheless still young men of noble birth were found, which undertook the dangerous
daring, although still no better wage had than the fact that his frozen body was made shorter
by a head. The severed heads were then each time, as if to mock themselves and others to Terror,
impaled on long poles in front of the King house. Many a wise man might now probably think
that in the rods on their heads staked but not much brain and wit could have been because they
were foolish enough, her skin so cheap to take to market. But like wise people forget that many
a young man's fiery blood, the quiet Reflection absorbs. One experienced to be sure, that the
deterrent plugged heads had the good effect of reducing the incessant influx of prostitutes,
they also some new arrival at the gate yet persuaded to turn back before he tried to gamble.
However stood still from time to one and the other fool who does not return came home, but
his head was to feed the ravens.

Now had been so long no hooves of horses carrying free the way to royal residences mashed, that
people were already beginning to hope this senseless trips were not
happen again, as more of a sudden one driven by desire prince from
afar But her time was on his way.

This was but a free man and had even smarter Therefore, even at home a few years or even longer
day practiced his legs while running. Now he understood his case for the reason, for in the
whole kingdom, which his father dominated, was among men and women, no one, not the outdated,
the king's son in the course would have. If he won with a coach and horses went to the wooing,
he once wanted by to show people his wealth, and give then rest his legs, so they do not tired
before the race. Half a bushel of gold took the boy for the way food with and the same was
as if it were an oat bag tied back to the coach. The king's son was on his free ride has not
gone far when he sees from afar a human image approaching in flight, as worn by Vogelfittigen and
race after a few moments and the Schnellfuß like the wind on the coach over. "Hold still, hold
still," shouted the king's son with all his might so that the ear of the Windfüßigen hear it.
At once the man has his Running to stand still and to hear why he is called. Only then will the king's
son aware that the rotor depends on both feet a millstone. This strange circumstance allows
the Run-of the man in the king's son eyes appear even more powerful, so he asks, "Why do you
have the millstones on the feet? "My feet would not otherwise in the course of the fast Soil-like,
"replied the man -" and I could suddenly fallen to who knows where, when to carry a heavier
load would have the feet than just the body. "

The prince thinks immediately, such a man could take me into service, who knows how the thing is,
maybe I can ask a deputy to the race, if I myself certainly would not get through. "Have you
no desire to enter into my service," he said the man, "Why not, if we trade agreement. What you
promise me to pay for? "

The prince replied: "All the days of fresh food and drink as much as your heart desires, beautiful
full summer and winter clothing and substances [10] Gold as an annual wage. "

The man was satisfied and the prince called him behind the coach on the gold bag to share. "Why,"
asked the man, "Do you think your horses faster and stronger legs than I? Do not worry, I'll always
be ahead of them. "So they went for.

After a while, the prince sees a man sitting by the roadside, of a gun to her cheek had set as
if it was aimed at any one bird.

But how sharp the king's son and his servant to all sides peered out, but they saw neither the
earth nor in the air anything, what would the shooter can aim. "What are you doing there," said
the prince. The gunman pointed with his hand when he wanted to give to understand, speak a word,
it scares me the bird. "What are you doing?" The prince asked for the second, and when no answer
was the third time. "Be still, the shooter said in a low voice," I command you to Reply admit, I must
first shoot down the bird. "After a little while to let a Paff hear what the shooter got up
immediately and then said, "I have the bird, now can I give you answer. Been a while a fly
was circling around the tower of Babylon and wanted to settle the tower button, I could not tolerate,
however, because the Mosquito is ten Lies pounds, she could damage the delicate tip button,
so I shot down the enemy, "the prince asked in wonder:".? How can you see for so far " - "What
a tiny size that," laughs the man, "my mind goes much further," "Wait. a little bit, "shouts
the swift-runner in between," I want to go and see if the man cut, or telling the truth. has
so saying he was off and away as the Wind, and had a few moments later he lost the king's son from
his face.

Such a shooter, I could probably even need somewhere, thinks the king's son and immediately goes
out into the agreement. "Will you come to me as a servant?" Asks
he the discerning shooter.

"Why not," replied the man, "if we agree on trade can be. What you promise me than wages,
"the prince says," Fresh Eating and drinking as much as your heart desires, complete, beautiful
clothing for summer and winter demand substances and a gold as an annual wage. "The shooter
was agreed, and also just arrived Schnellfuß the back of Babylon, it's on the back of the
big shot down mosquito he was not bothersome. The sharp-eyed shooter was behind the coach on the Goldsack
and they drove on again.

They had gone not much further, as did the prince, the care, as clever people Had eyes and ears
everywhere, by the way a man who lay on the ground and his ear to
the Soil, held as he wanted to overhear, the man's ear was shaped
tube-shaped and three fathoms long.

"What are you doing?" Asked the prince. Hark the end said, "In the city of Rome are now just five
kings gathered to take counsel secretly about a war, I wanted . Just now hear that the war
will affect us, "So he asked in wonder," How you can hear in so far The man replied, "? Now this is
just not far, my Ear goes even further, it can hardly be spoken anywhere in the world, something
that not penetrate my ears would feel like if I would have otherwise, women of all empty talk to
take notes. "The prince immediately thought to himself, who knows if such a man Assistance can
sometimes be necessary, and asked the man ear: "Would not you like to enter into my service,
"" Why not - said the man ears - if we agree trade be. The man turned up his long ear tube,
so they did not touch the ground, sat down next to the sharp-sighted on the gold bag behind the
coach, and they drove on.

They were back a distance way down, as they came upon a great forest. Even a While previously,
before the forest aufthat before them, had noticed the prince, how strange individual tree
tops from time to time klafterhoch over the other trees of the forest,
were lifted and then suddenly disappearing.

He asked his servant to the meaning of the thing have, but none could give him evidence of this.
Someone stood on a tree and struck him with the ax over so the tree was probably when he fell
to the ground, their faces disappear, but like a tree until the tops of a few fathoms the sky
stretched out before he falls, could not explain the human mind. Gradually now entered our walkers
Forest, and here they should learn, fortunately, because by their own intuition, as with the
miraculous ascent of the trees was received. They were not long in the forest thicket down, as
they saw the Baumlupfer just at work. A man that is elected chooses a suitable tree, then came
out with both fists, grabbed the trunk and pulled it together with the roots from the soil
than it would have been a cabbage or a turnip. When he saw that the coach stopped, he stopped
work and went a few steps closer because he thought that might be the gorgeous carriages propelled
Mr. presumably the forest owner be, let him come to defend him. Therefore, he said humbly:
Mr. "Dear! do not take it for offense, if I had taken without permission, rather lean, small
timber from your forest, the larger I have not touched, and the mother wanted to cook porridge
and therefore sent me into the forest, a costume that I would bring home wood to make fire
at the Grape. I wanted to just set a few pieces, and then make me the way when you herbeikamt.
"The King's son was very surprised about the man's strength, but he thought, I want fun half
gestures as the Lord of the forest, until I better try out his strength, so he said to Baumlupfer:
"I'll not defend, take care for any a much sturdier This tree. "Walked with a contented face back
the man immediately grabbed a tree he with his hands and pulled him spanning could not crash!
out of the ground. "Are not you desire to enter into my service, "asked the prince. "Why not,
if we agree trade be, "replied the man "What promise for an annual salary it to me then?"
The king's son replied: "Every day fresh food and drink, so much the heart desires, complete
clothing and an annual Stof gold. The man scratched his ears as if he were in regard to of
wages still undecided, said then: "Gonnet me just yet so much time that I bring the wood of
the dress and her mother both tell me where I go, they could otherwise wait to die, then I rush
back immediately. "After he received permission he took on the torn timber, briskly walked from
there, and came without much Lost time back. The prince was pleased that he had regained a servant,
whose help he could get into unexpected danger stead.

We were under the forest long ago in the back and was a good bit further down in the open field;
in the far distance we saw a city and a route on this side of the city seven windmills; all of
which on one side of the road in a row stood side by side. The king's son, which focus on
all respected what was going on, immediately noticed that the wings of all the Windmills turned,
although the air was so quiet all around, that not a leaf and feather budge. Continuing the
tour, he suddenly felt a violent wind, as if from a tube or how he
made a hole in the wall sometimes penetrates into the chamber, but
after a few steps was removed from the site, the wind stopped as suddenly
again.

The king's son let the eyes wander around everywhere, but saw nothing peculiar long, resulting he had
the wind generator can close. As they only some dirt road from the city gate were removed, the prince
suddenly see a man of medium stature, of the feet propped against a large stone and the body slightly
bent backwards, a very peculiar Work seemed to do. The prince called a halt and asked the stranger:
"What are you, little brother, "replied the man,"? What should I make poor wretch? Since I never
a better service, found me would have had to eat, I nothgedrungen the Office Take over in calm
weather when there is no wind, blowing through the city mills in response to . Bring But I can earn
money with this silly business well? Hardly so much that I do not die of hunger. "" Is it
all because by such an easy business, the mills bubbles to set in motion, "asked the prince.
"Well," replied the man, "that you can with your own Eyes see. My mouth is always closed and his
fingers I press one nostril to which avoided giving too much wind, because otherwise, together
with the windmills of the mill in the would fly air. "Have you no desire to enter into my service,"
asked the prince. "Why not," replied the wind mill, "if we are united and trade it to me so much
give that I need not suffer any longer hungry. What you pay for a promise to me, ? When shall
I come to you in service, "the prince said," What the other servants admit that you shall get
it. It is so, we beat a! The man of the Word, the bull Horn says one old saying. "The king's
son took the new servant, and then moved with his four servants to the royal city, to try fortune
or misfortune, he might now of be nice girl husband, or to deliver his head on the pole.

When he came into the royal city, he sent for him and his servant in the best inn apartment and
ordered the landlord or expressed, the servants take plentiful food and drink to To give any
hope what he did. A handful of gold throwing on the table, said the King's son: "Take the little
hand as money, if we divorced, I will already have specify what is missing. "Then he commanded
to summon tailors and cobblers from all over the city, should make the stately robes to his
servants, for although every man in what his Office knew what was excellent, yet none was therefore
a better plumage grown so that one could find confirmation of them right, what does an old
saying: "Nine commercial, the tenth hungry, "or:" A beautiful songbird is not always a pretty
grown Rock! "

The swift-virgin father, old King had, however, even by rumor's of the Grandeur and wealth is one
of the new suitor, before the young man himself appeared before him, what happened until the
third day. The beautiful clothes and shoes for the servants were not previously been done. When
the old king saw the handsome, prosperous young man, had he said with fatherly kindness, "Let,
dear friend, spared this race dear; were your feet ever so quickly, so you could adjust nothing against
my daughter, because it has legs like wings. I am sorry for your young life you want to indulge
in vain. " The suitor replies: King, "Dear! I hear from people that if someone does not even wanted
to run with your daughter to race, it is permissible for him, his servants or wage slave to
send. "-" But this is true, "replied the king, but from such 'an
assistant arises not even the slightest benefit.

 His rather sharp countenance, lighted by honest gray eyes, was a mixture
of good-humor, childlike ingenuousness, and innocent jocosity. The neatness of his hair, his
carefully shaven face, and the whole condition of his brown cloth coat and breeches and worsted
stockings, denoted a fastidiousness rarely at any time, and particularly in the good (or bad)
old days, to be found in common with rustic life and old age. Did some of the dandyism of the
French dragoon survive in the old Philipsburgh farmer?

He carried a walking-stick in one hand, a lighted lantern in the other. After bowing to the
people in the hall, he set down his lantern, closed the door and bolted it, then took up his
lantern, blew out the flame thereof, and set it down again.

"Whew!" he puffed, after his exertion. "Windy night, Miss Elizabeth! Windy night, Major Colden!
Winter's going to set in airly this year. There ain't been sich a frosty November since '64,
when the river was froze over as fur down as Spuyten Duyvel."

There was in the old man's high-pitched voice a good deal of the squeak, but little of the
quaver, of senility.

"You'll stay to supper, I hope, Mr. Valentine."

From Elizabeth this was a sufficient exhibition of graciousness. She then turned her back on
the two men and began to tell her aunt of her arrangements.

"Thankee, ma'am," said old Valentine, whose sight did not immediately acquaint him, in the
dim candle-light, with Elizabeth's change of front; wherefore he continued, placidly addressing
her back: "I wouldn't mind a glass and a pipe with friend Williams afore trudging back to the
Hill."

He then walked over to the disconsolate Colden, and, with a very gay-doggish expression, remarked
in an undertone:

"Fine pair o' girls yonder, major?"

He had known Colden from the time of the latter's first boyhood visits to the manor, and could
venture a little familiarity.

"Girls?" blurted the major, startled out of his meditations.

The old country beau chuckled.

"We all know what's betwixt you and the niece. How about the aunt and me taking a lesson from
you two, eh?"

Even the gloomy officer could not restrain a momentary smile.

"What, Mr. Valentine? Do you seriously think of marrying?"

"Why not? I've been married afore, hain't I? What's to hinder?"

"Why, there's the matter of age." Colden rather enjoyed being inconsiderate of people's feelings.

"Oh, the lady is not so old," said the octogenarian, placidly, casting a judicial, but approving
look at the commanding figure of Miss Sally.

Then, as he had been for a considerable time on his legs, having walked over from the Hill
to the parsonage that afternoon, and as at best his knees bent when he stood, he sat down on
the settle by the staircase.

Miss Sally, though she knew it useless to protest further against Elizabeth's caprice, nevertheless
felt it her duty to do so, especially as Major Colden would probably carry to the family a
report of her attitude towards that caprice.

"Did you ever hear of such rashness, major? A young girl like Elizabeth coming out here in
time of war, when this neutral ground between the lines is overridden and foraged to death,
and deluged with blood by friend as well as foe? La me! I can't understand her, if she is my
sister's child."

"Why, aunt Sally, you stay out here through it all," said Elizabeth, not as much to depreciate
the dangers as to give her aunt an opportunity of posing as a very courageous person.

Miss Sally promptly accepted the opportunity. "Oh," said she, with a mien of heroic self-sacrifice,
"I couldn't let poor Grace Babcock stay at the parsonage with nobody but her children; besides
I'm not Colonel Philipse's daughter, and who cares whether I'm loyal to the King or not? But
a girl like you isn't made for the dangers and privations we've had to put up with out here
since the King's troops have occupied New York, and Washington's rebel army has held the country
above. I'm surprised the family let her come, or that you'd countenance it by coming with her,
major."

"We all opposed it," said Colden, with a sigh. "But--you know Elizabeth!"

"Yes," said Elizabeth herself with cheerful nonchalance, "Elizabeth always has her way. I was
hungry for a sight of the place, and the more the old house is in danger, the more I love it.
I'm here for a week, and that ends it. The place doesn't seem to have suffered any. They haven't
even quartered troops here."

"Not since the American officers stayed here in the fall o' '76," put in old Mr. Valentine,
from the settle. "I reckon you'll be safe enough here, Miss Elizabeth."

"Of course I shall. Why, our troops patrol all this part of the country, Lord Cathcart told
us at King's Bridge, and we have naught to fear from them."

"No, the British foragers won't dare treat Philipse Manor-house as they do the homes of some
of their loyal friends," said Miss Sally, who was no less proud of her relationship with the
Philipses, because it was by marriage and not by blood. "But the horrible "Skinners," who don't
spare even the farms of their fellow rebels--"

"Bah!" said Elizabeth. "The scum of the earth! Williams has weapons here, and with him and
the servants I'll defend the place against all the rebel cut-throats in the county."

The major thought to make a last desperate attempt to dissuade Elizabeth from remaining.

"That's all well enough," said he; "but there are the rebel regulars, the dragoons. They'll
be raiding down to our very lines, one of these days, if only in retaliation. You know how
Lord Cornwallis's party under General Grey, over in Jersey, the other night, killed a lot of
Baylor's cavalry,--Mrs. Washington's Light Horse, they called the troop. And the Hessians made
a great foray on the rebel families this side the river."

"Ay," chirped old Valentine; "but the American Colonel Butler, and their Major Lee, of Virginia,
fell on the Hessian yagers 'tween Dobbs's Ferry and Tarrytown, and killed ever so many of 'em,--and
I wasn't sorry for that, neither!"

"Oho!" said Colden, "you belong to the opposition."

"Oh, I'm neither here nor there," replied the old man. "But they say that there Major Lee,
of Virginia, is the gallantest soldier in Washington's army. He'd lead his men against the
powers of Satan if Washington gave the word. Light Horse Harry, they call him,--and a fine
dashing troop o' light horse he commands."

"No more dashing, I'll wager, than some of ours," said Elizabeth, whose mood for the moment
permitted her to talk with reason and moderation; "not even counting the Germans. And as for
leaders, what do you say to Simcoe, of the Queen's Rangers, or Emmerick, or Tarleton, or"--turning
to Colden--"your cousin James De Lancey, of this county, major?"

The major, notwithstanding his Toryism, did not enter with enthusiasm into Elizabeth's admiration
for these brave young cavalry leaders. Staten Island and East New Jersey had not offered him
as great opportunities for distinction as they had had. It was, therefore, Miss Sally who next
spoke.

"Well, Heaven knows there are enough on either side to devastate the land and rob us of comfort
and peace. One wakes in the middle of the night, at the clatter of horses riding by like the
wind, and wonders whether it's friend or foe, and trembles till they're out of hearing, for
fear the door is to be broken in or the house fired. And the sound of shots in the night, and
the distant glare of flames when some poor farmer's home is burned over his head!"

"Ay," added Mr. Valentine, "and all the cattle and crops go to the foragers, so it's no use
raising any more than you can hide away for your own larder."

Elizabeth was beginning to be bored, and saw nothing to gain from a continuation of these recitals.
Doubtless, by this time, her room was lighted and warm. So, thoughtless of Colden, she mounted
the first step of the stairway, and said:

"I have no doubt Williams has contrived to hide away enough provisions for our use. So I sha'n't
suffer from hunger, and as for Lee's Light Horse, I defy them and all other rebels. Come, aunt
Sally!"

She had ascended as far as to the fourth step of the stairway, and Miss Sally was about to
follow, when there was heard, above the wind's moaning, another sound of galloping horses.
Like the previous similar sound, it came from the north.

Elizabeth stopped and stood on the fourth step. Miss Sally raised her finger to bid silence.
Colden's attitude became one of anxious attention, while he dropped his hat on the settle and
drew his cloak close about him, so that it concealed his uniform, sword, and pistol. The galloping
continued.

When time came for it to turn off eastward, as it would do should the riders take the road
to Mile Square, it did not so. Instead, as the sound unmistakably indicated, it came on down
the post-road.

"Hessians, perhaps!" Miss Sally whispered.

"Or De Lancey's Cowboys," said Valentine, but not in a whisper.

Elizabeth cast a sharp look at the old man, as if to show disapproval of his use of the Whigs'
nickname for De Lancey's troop. But the octogenarian did not quail.

"They're riding towards the manor-house," he added, a moment later.

"Let us hope they're friends," said Colden, in a tone low and slightly unsteady.

Elizabeth disdained to whisper.

"Maybe it is Lee's Light Horse," she said, in her usual voice, but ironically, addressing Valentine.
"In that case we should tremble for our lives, I suppose."

"Whoever they are, they've stopped before the house!" said Miss Sally, in quite a tremble.

There was a noise of horses pawing and snorting outside, of directions being given rapidly,
and of two or three horses leaving the main band for another part of the grounds. Then was
heard a quick, firm step on the porch floor, and in the same instant a sharp, loud knock on
the door.

No one in the hall moved; all looked at Elizabeth.

"A very valiant knock!" said she, with more irony. "It certainly must be Lee's Light Horse.
Will you please open the door, Colden?"

"What?" ejaculated Colden.

"Certainly," said Elizabeth, turning on the stairway, so as to face the door; "to show we're
not afraid."

Jack Colden looked at her a moment demurringly, then went to the door, undid the fastenings,
and threw it open, keeping his cloak close about him and immediately stepping back into the shadow.

A handsome young officer strode in, as if 'twere a mighty gust of wind that sent him. He wore
a uniform of blue with red facings,--a uniform that had seen service,--was booted and spurred,
without greatcoat or cloak. A large pistol was in his belt, and his left hand rested on the
hilt of a sword. He swept past Colden, not seeing him; came to a stop in the centre of the
hall, and looked rapidly around from face to face.

"Your servant, ladies and gentlemen!" he said, with a swift bow and a flourish of his dragoon's
hat. His eye rested on Elizabeth.

"Who are you?" she demanded, coldly and imperiously, from the fourth step.

"I'm Captain Peyton, of Lee's Light Horse," said he.

CHAPTER IV.

THE CONTINENTAL DRAGOON.

The Peytons of Virginia were descended from a younger son of the Peytons of Pelham, England,
of which family was Sir Edward Peyton, of Pelham, knight and baronet. Sir Edward's relative,
the first American Peyton, settled in Westmoreland County. Within one generation the family
had spread to Stafford County, and within another to Loudoun County also. Thus it befell that
there was a Mr. Craven Peyton, of Loudoun County, justice of the peace, vestryman, and chief
warden of Shelburne Parish. He was the father of nine sons and two daughters. One of the sons
was Harry.

This Harry grew up longing to be a soldier. Military glory was his ambition, as it had been
Washington's; but not as a mere provincial would he be satisfied to excel. He would have a
place as a regular officer, in an army of the first importance, on the fields of Europe. Before
the Revolution, Americans were, like all colonials, very loyal to their English King. Therefore
would Harry Peyton be content with naught less than a King's commission in the King's army.

His father, glad to be guided in choosing a future for one of so many sons, sent Harry to London
in 1770, to see something of life, and so managed matters, through his English relations, that
the boy was in 1772, at the age of nineteen, the possessor, by purchase, of an ensign's commission.
He was soon sent to do garrison duty in Ireland, being enrolled with the Sixty-third Regiment
of Foot.

He had lived gaily enough during his two years in London, occupying lodgings, being patronized
by his relations, seeing enough of society, card-tables, drums, routs, plays, prize-fights,
and other diversions. He had made visits in the country and showed what he had learned in Virginia
about cock-fighting, fox-hunting and shooting, and had taken lessons from London fencing-masters.
A young gentleman from Virginia, if well off and "well connected," could have a fine time in
London in those days; and Harry Peyton had it.

But he could never forget that he was a colonial. If he were treated by his English associates
as an equal, or even at times with a particular consideration, there was always a kind of implication
that he was an exception among colonials. Other colonial youths were similarly treated, and
some of these were glad to be held as exceptions, and even joined in the derision of the colonials
who were not. For these Harry Peyton had a mighty disgust and detestation. He did not enjoy
receiving as Harry Peyton a tolerance and kindness that would have been denied him as merely
an American. And he sometimes could not avoid seeing that, even as Harry Peyton, he was regarded
as compensating, by certain attractive qualities in the nature of amiability and sincerity,
for occasional exhibitions of what the English rated as social impropriety and bad taste. Often,
at the English lofty derision of colonials, at the English air of self-evident superiority,
the English pretence of politely concealed shock or pain or offence at some infringement of
a purely superficial conduct-code of their own arbitrary fabrication, he ground his teeth in
silence; for in one respect, he had as good manners as the English had then, or have now,--when
in Rome he did not resent or deride what the Romans did. He began to think that the lot of
a self-respecting American among the English, even if he were himself made an exception of
and well dealt with, was not the most enviable one. And, after he joined the army, he thought
this more and more every day. But he would show them what a colonial could rise to! Yet that
would prove nothing for his countrymen, as he would always, on his meritorious side, be deemed
an exception.

His military ambition, however, predominated, and he had no thought of leaving the King's service.

The disagreement between the King and the American Colonies grew, from "a cloud no bigger than
a man's hand," to something larger. But Harry heard little of it, and that entirely from the
English point of view. He received but three or four letters a year from his own people, and
the time had not come for his own people to write much more than bare facts. They were chary
of opinions. Harry supposed that the new discontent in the Colonies, after the repeal of the
Stamp Act and the withdrawal of the two regiments from Boston Town to Castle William, was but
that of the perpetually restless, the habitual fomenters, the notoriety-seeking agitators,
the mob, whose circumstances could not be made worse and might be improved by disturbances.
Now the Americans, from being a subject of no interest to English people, a subject discussed
only when some rare circumstance brought it up, became more talked of. Sometimes, when Americans
were blamed for opposing taxes to support soldiery used for their own protection, Harry said
that the Americans could protect themselves; that the English, in wresting Canada from the
French, had sought rather English prestige and dominion than security for the colonials; that
the flourishing of the Colonies was despite English neglect, not because of English fostering;
that if the English had solicitude for America, it was for America as a market for their own
trade. Thereupon his fellow officers would either laugh him out, as if he were too ignorant
to be argued with, or freeze him out, as if he had committed some grave outrage on decorum.
And Harry would rage inwardly, comparing his own ignorance and indecorousness with the knowledge
and courtesy exemplified in the assertion of Doctor Johnson, when that great but narrow Englishman
said, in 1769, of Americans, "Sir, they are a race of convicts, and ought to be thankful for
anything we allow them short of hanging."

There came to Harry, now and then, scraps of vague talk of uneasiness in Boston Town, whose
port the British Parliament had closed, to punish the Yankees for riotously destroying tea
on which there was a tax; of the concentration there of British troops from Halifax, Quebec,
New York, the Jerseys, and other North American posts. But there was not, in Harry's little
world of Irish garrison life, the slightest expectation of actual rebellion or even of a momentous
local tumult in the American Colonies.

Imagine, therefore, his feelings when, one morning late in March in 1775, he was told that,
within a month's time, the Sixty-third, and other regiments, would embark at Cork for either
Boston or New York!

There could not be a new French or Spanish invasion. As for the Indians, never again would
British regulars be sent against them. Was it, then, Harry's own countrymen that his regiment
was going to fight?

His comrades inferred the cause of his long face, and laughed. He would have no more fighting
to do in America against the Americans than he had to do in Ireland against the Irish, or than
an English officer in an English barrack town had to do against the English. The reinforcements
were being sent only to overawe the lawless element. The mere sight of these reinforcements
would obviate any occasion for their use. The regiment would merely do garrison duty in America
instead of in Ireland or elsewhere.

He had none to advise or enlighten him. What was there for him to do but sail with his regiment,
awaiting disclosures or occurrences to guide? What misgivings he had, he kept to himself, though
once on the voyage, as he looked from the rocking transport towards the west, he confided to
Lieutenant Dalrymple his opinion that 'twas damned bad luck sent his regiment to America, of
all places. Only minimal instruction we have in Wilhelm von Humboldt's writing
found Hermann and Dorothea, who already in 1799 the first and only part of the aesthetic experiments
appeared. The presentation is kept within blood and unmyelinated abstraction, the amount of the
living individual poetic completely out of the face disappears and dissolves each time one of
the ideas from the forced elegance and icy elegance of expression, we find it more common than it
seemed. If therefore after reading Schiller sent him the record of the artistic and philosophical
theory know anything more wanted, then this point of his letter, usually as an admission by the
reversal in the himself from the creative thinker poet was just, taken, but much of that mood
will certainly come at the expense of just very infertile book, from his own initiative he expressed.
Goethe, too, soon turned from reading from the same angry, supposedly because blame it to the
one occurring in the poem vexed subject. For us, the whole wide Paper delivered lower yield
than the few pages that the excellent Hillebrand the poem is dedicated. Gervinus mentioned the same
thing only temporary, less, we believe, on grounds of his principle of historical genesis, where
it is untrue to itself often enough, as because of his representation at all underlying coldness
towards the poet of humanism.

Hermann and Dorothea.

Of all the poetry of Goethe is not, if we except the Werther, at the very beginning of been the
nation with such general applause taken when Hermann and Dorothea. The fist who is now perhaps
among the most popular of Goethe's works, even abroad, winning his reputation only gradually, and
probably only in the later form in which he at the time of Romantic school in 1808 appeared neuvermehrt
in its second edition. Hermann and Dorothea was the German agents after so appealing and so human
and yet so transparent and perfect art form that the poem both the amount that judges only after the
substances formed as the artistic sense, which only the form, the artistic treatment shall, to
the admiration enraptured. Schiller said after he read Hermann and Dorothea, this poem for the
Summit Goethe's, of all modern art. Wilhelm von Humboldt tied in a separate book, Soon after
the Hermann and Dorothea, under the title "aesthetic experiments", came out of this Poem a detailed
discussion of general aesthetic principles. Also, August Wilhelm Schlegel called in a separate
assessment Hermann and Dorothea, a perfect work of art in a big way, a book full of golden teachings
of wisdom and virtue. With equal admiration to express more recent critics. Hermann and Dorothea,
says Hillebrand, the very recently excellent history of German national literature from Lessing
to the present has written, Hermann and Dorothea is a work of German biblical religion and virtue.
And Gervinus means when an old Greek now were risen again, so would the whole of modern literature
Hermann and Dorothea, the only poem that we could offer him no embarrassment. Also Rosary holds
such as Humboldt and Gervinus Hermann and Dorothea in artistic terms for the most perfect of
Goethe's works. Goethe himself had a particular fondness for the same: he could, as he tells in
the day and year books, never read without tears of emotion.

A similar decision speaks our own feeling that we all have the poem that we here will employ, read
and enjoyed. But still this enjoyment increases communication and clear Consciousness of his sources,
and the effect that makes a beautiful poem to us seeking of itself after an appropriate expression,
and as a true work of art, like Hermann and Dorothea always half unconsciously created by the
artistic genius is, as an infinity of intentions, a space which it is indeed difficult, so
soulful and very individual Structures to characterize accurately, as it wind up the threads
of its texture and Impression that it's critical to break into the acting individual motives,
but nevertheless It currently offers its wealth of interpretation and analysis of the various sides
represents and provides the aesthetics fertile opportunity to measure
their general principles to it.

Hermann and Dorothea is an epic, or, as Jean Paul describes it in more detail, an epic Idyll. We will,
therefore, to the poem its place, as if to show his substantial home, the following must remember
in detail the fact that the nature and the laws of the epic Seal are at all, and we will then return
to Goethe and find him a only favor the very nature was born on the epic poet, and that the essence
of his poetry coincides with the essence of epic poetry in the happiest. We will watch out whether
the time and nation, in what was the poet, the epic was favorable or not, which its relationship
to the major political events of the past and to the surrounding national world was whether
it was easy to find here an epic material and whether the poet it made a happy choice. We will
then continue the story itself, which the Poets tell us presents to the people and characters
he is in action, and the whole manner of presentation and treatment take more closely. The diction, the
linguistic Expression that is part of the verse structure characteristic of the poem, and finally
settling with the two predecessors of our epic poem in German literature, I mean Klopstock's
Messiah and Voss Luise will serve the peculiarity and value of our Poem to put into the light.
So this is the thread that is continuously on which our analysis.

The internal laws of epic poetry, we will see nowhere safer and purer can regain the form than
with the father of epic poetry, the old Homer. The happy people of the Greeks was so artistic
and poetic organized that with them the different genres of poetic idea in contemporary natural
gradation from one another and develop themselves, created their essential form, so that the inner
moments of the concept nowhere so pure with reality, the poetics of the history of poetry coincide.
Goethe himself had composed by Hermann and Dorothea, the Homer as a role model eyes and so he
does then with respect to its Hermann:

    

For Home Ride to be, just as the last, is beautiful.

We shall, therefore, by designing the main features of epic poetry, this is always in view done
to Homer.

Epos, word, Sage is the poetry of the people in childhood, in the dawn of history. The epic poetry
flourishes in that dawn, when a people even from the savagery and stupidity the first natural
existence to the spirit awakened, but where the intellectual and moral powers not as something conscious,
and clearly recognized as a separate firm power to the people face, but this is yet another in
a very naive way with the moral imperative. It is during this period but already a political life,
but not in the form of certain laws and solid rights, curb the freedom of the individual. Rather, each
with the political Custom in his own breast, and by following her, he does not know that it
could be different. Law and emotion are not yet divorced and it's just the feeling that the
political State has created. Sun Agamemnon is indeed king, but this rule is based on any written laws.
If he receives the best share of the spoils, then understand this stops at each of its own at
which point power and the aristocracy, the elders Emperors and starts, and the latter is again
limited by the People's Assembly, this is not determined by fixed statute, but by the general feeling
of the individual self-given. A given by reflection, by written advice to a position placed are
not promulgated constitution and the political order has no other ground than the unbiased
attitude of all. Similarly, the right and the administration of justice is not one for the existing
world and the provisions thereof are staggering: it has no other binding Form, as to him by the immediate
life of the people, by the right feeling and the sense of fairness is given. If one such as a
murder committed, what with the fresh life of the Homeric People is not uncommon, he seeks to reconcile
the family of those killed by a fine or he leaves fleeing the home: one or the other makes him the
custom duty. Argue two by a weight of gold, the people formed a circle in the open, the old
men as judges Sitting on raised stone steps, the scepter as a sign of judicial prestige and experienced
Wisdom in his hand back and forth arguing, the people fall screaming from both sides one which
heralds enjoin silence: at last the old men give to their own senses and direct Sense of truth
the decision. So is the military system of the Homeric period without external peremptory norm and
form from the bottom of the living participants in all military Meaning. No discipline required,
as in later times the reluctant arbitrariness of individuals to curb, if the rows close together
determine if a fighter helps the other, if for the body of the dead and rescuing the survivors
gather protectively, so This does not happen by command but by an inner compulsion that every
self- urges. Sun is in this epic age the individual is very naive and unconscious after the
train of his humanity, it is the national spirit in everything it does and feels determined
and in the general powers that the life and customs form, fully incorporated. There are, in
a word, objective, substantial people. Just as now in a later period the history of the separation
of the subject of substance going on, we come out of the specifically epic world out. The mind
and the spirit of the individual are no longer in accordance with the law: what used to be
in his actions an inner necessity, the stands across from him now as a moral imperative: it
is solid rights and laws that oppose the individual's sense of a barrier, the state appears
as a particular Constitution with special statutes created by legislators, the latter of course
also understood only the case of a national sensation in phrases and formulas, yet even this form
of written law, the first stage of reflection, the overall life of the poetic epic-heroic Time
becomes a prosaic order of things. If now the broken in spirit itself, the stopped a total has
to be driven back into itself in order to subjective feelings and considerations to dwell, so that employment
is the subject of the lyric with itself Poetic creation, and it pushes the other way around
the conflict with the existing world outside and seeks practical and acting his affairs in the objective
world to submit, this leads the struggle of individual characters with the general purpose and objective
Powers dramatic poetry.

But in the period of the epic, the forces of man in general are still in unity, is his sensuous
existence is not suppressed by the spiritual.

The Homeric heroes are all full, sensuous and elegant at the same time wonderfully spiritual
people who are in close traffic with the external nature and the physical needs and their satisfaction
they are just as much as we tend to obscure them. Eating and drinking is not on their CV Side issue,
and the external tasks that are necessary to, not below their dignity. The hero even his oxen
slaughtered and dressed and clean it and fry the meat; the chair on which he sits, the bed
where he sleeps, the mats, sailing and rowing benches the fast hollow vessel in which he came across
the sea, his helmet, his shield, his Tanks and the spear with which he fortifies himself for
battle, the car in which he holds the Trojan plains repay the reins, the horses - all this
is essential for every circle in which his personality is present. And by investing in these
sensory activities and physical needs of his whole self into it, these tasks themselves ennobled
and as more human. For us, work machines and factories, and we participate in our the sensual
shops only half our nobler self is not present here, do servant it for us behind our backs;
craftsmen manufacture our device, the food come to us artificially prepared to have that class and
lodging with those tasks, it has lost the spiritual nobility, the Homeric keep the people
in all their doings. It now makes a touching impression on us when Penelope, Princess of Ithaca,
and Helen, the wife of the king's son Paris, even weave their robes that Nausicaa itself washed
by the sea with her maids and their clothes dry. If a hero of the praise is that the eloquence
flowed from his lips like sweet honey (a very intellectual Lob), the poet praises for others because
of her powerful voice, because of the speed their feet and the force with which they pick
up big rocks and throw away, so for sensory properties. The reputation of the king based on
the violence of the hero body superior to that of the ruler is the people. The fight itself
is a physical: man meets handsome man full of symbolic rites, the war, the funeral, the sacrifices,
the People's Assembly shall be public, it moves in noisy visible and audible forms. The right
is the sensibility in its integrity and the moral and physical merge with equal power in the
image of a certain total, and in unbroken Human nature.

On this land so created the epic, and thus can provide all the features of this poetic Genus
by itself, if the hero rests in the evening by his deeds, if After completion of a meal the
desire for breast-fed meat and drink, then does the rhapsodic and his songs is a perfect reproduction
of what is experienced and performs, acts, and narrative accrediting Events, memories of a
near and distant past.

Such songs drown in each party, under any roof, even if the leisure time occurred. They are not arbitrary
and individual content, not the individual she has with this particular spirit designed and
filled in that particular form, he is an organ, as it were the mouth of the people; According
to the expectant public feeling. The Nibelungenlied, says Grimm, has herself composed. Then
these coalesce Rhapsodieen an inner train, also forms the first fluctuating forecast by versatile
replacement to a fixed shape. The resulting epic Poem is in a period when even more, the general
laws of life as the Individual, the whole national life reflects a comprehensive and it is an image
of the deeds and Sentiments of the people in general. The people themselves sealed the true epic
and calls it with all its peculiarities from. The epic poem tells us, therefore, not an isolated
That, but the movement that trains and fights national masses: there is not in it a individual feeling
or passion, or limited heart and life situation as in the lyric poem or drama, but it encompasses
the full totality of a nation and time. This is also the only epic to the main book, the general
source of educational and education or, as Hegel says aptly, the Bible of the people. Sun Homer
remained always the holy teachers of the Greeks, whose sayings such decisions were a God, to to
every summoned, which was the foundation on which the whole poetic, religious built up and moral
education of the Greeks. Homer to Herodotus, the Greeks created their gods, the tragedians took
out the story of her plays, the philosophers speak of their views him, boundary disputes were
settled according to his sayings, Lycurgus laid him the altdorischen order, which he attached
to reason, in Athens was the educational book of Homer Youth. A similar Bible epic, almost every major
nation in a certain stage its history along the way: the Indians have their great epics like
the Greeks their Homer; produced in this way, the Italians also at the starting point of their
becoming their national Dante, were built for the explanation of even their own chairs at the universities,
so the Portuguese Camoens her, also in a period of upswing of the Portuguese People's Power lived
and this upswing, that the voyages to India in his Lusiads recorded, and no other was in the
German Middle Ages, Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival the faithful and complete mirror of
the prevailing mystical chivalry and was therefore, the most commonly distributed book, enjoyment
and inspiration for all. Some Bibles lacks the epic form, such as the Old Testament, is set out
where, what the Jewish People of legend and history, in poetry and had thought, though in the Old
Testament Religious to prevail much as we could declare it a real epic.
 In a few days news came that the Congress at Philadelphia had
resolved to organize a Continental army, of which the New England force at Cambridge was to
be the present nucleus; that a general-in-chief would soon arrive to take command, and that
the general-in-chief appointed was a Virginian,--Colonel Washington. Harry was jubilant.

Early in July the new general arrived, and Harry paid his respects to him in the house of the
college president. General Washington advised the boy to send another letter of resignation,
then to go home and join the troops that his own State would soon be raising. On hearing Harry's
story, Washington had given a momentary smile and a look at Major-General Charles Lee, who
had but recently published his resignation of his half-pay as a retired British officer, and
who did not know yet whether that resignation would be accepted or himself considered a deserter.

Peyton sent a new letter of resignation to Boston, then procured a horse, and started to ride
to Virginia. Six days later he was in New York. In a coffee-house where he was dining, he struck
up an acquaintance with three young gentlemen of the city, and told his name and story. One
of the three--a dark-eyed man--thereupon changed manner and said he had no time for a rascally
turncoat. Harry, in hot resentment, replied that he would teach a damned Tory some manners.
So the four went out of the town to Nicholas Bayard's woods, where, after a few passes with
rapiers, the dark-eyed gentleman was disarmed, and admitted, with no good grace, that Harry
was the better fencer. Harry left New York that afternoon, having learned that his antagonist
was Mr. John Colden, son of the postmaster of New York. His grandfather had been lieutenant-governor.

Harry had for some time thought he would prefer the cavalry, and he was determined, if possible,
to gratify that preference in entering the military service of his own country. On arriving
home he found his people strongly sympathizing with the revolt. But it was not until June,
1776, that Virginia raised a troop of horse. On the 18th of that month Harry was commissioned
a cornet thereof. After some service he found himself, March 31, 1777, cornet in the First
Continental Dragoons. The next fall, in a skirmish after the battle of Brandywine, he was recognized
by British officers as the former ensign of the Sixty-third. In the following spring, thanks
to his activity during the British occupation of Philadelphia, he was made captain-lieutenant
in Harry Lee's battalion of light dragoons. After the battle of Monmouth he was promoted, July
2, 1778, to the rank of captain. In the early fall of that year he was busy in partisan warfare
between the lines of the two armies.

And thus it came that he was pursuing a troop of Hessians down the New York and Albany post-road
on a certain cold November evening. Eager on the chase, he was resolved to come up with them
if it could be, though he should have to ride within gunshot of King's Bridge itself. Suddenly
his horse gave out. He had the saddle taken from the dead animal and given to one of his men
to bear while he himself mounted in front of a sergeant, for he was loath to spare a man. Approaching
Philipse Manor-house, the party saw a boy leading horses into a stable. Captain Peyton ordered
some of his men to patrol the road, and with the rest he went on to the manor-house lawn.

Here he gave further directions, dismounted, knocked at the door, and was admitted to the hall
where were Miss Elizabeth Philipse, Major Colden, Miss Sally Williams, and old Matthias Valentine;
and, on Elizabeth's demand, announced his name and rank.

CHAPTER V.

THE BLACK HORSE.

Thanks to the dimness, to his uniform, and to his swift entrance, Peyton had not been recognized
by Major Colden until he had given his name. That name had on the major the effect of an apparition,
and he stepped back into the dark corner of the hall, drawing his cloak yet closer about him.
This alarm and movement were not noticed by the others, as Peyton was the object of every gaze
but his own, which was fixed on Elizabeth.

"What do you want?" her voice rang out, while she frowned from her place on the staircase,
in cold resentment. Her aunt, meanwhile, made the newcomer a tremulous curtsey.

"I want to see the person in charge of this house, and I want a horse," replied Peyton, with
more promptitude than gentleness, yet with strict civility. Elizabeth's manner would have nettled
even a colder man.

Elizabeth did not keep him waiting for an answer.

"I am at present mistress of this house, and I am neither selling horses nor giving them!"

Peyton stared up at her in wonderment.

The candle-flame struggled against the wind, turning this way and that, and made the vague
shadows of the people and of the slender balusters dance on floor and wall. From without came
the sound of Peyton's horses pawing, and of his men speaking to one another in low tones.

"Your pardon, madam," said Peyton, "but a horse I must have. The service I am on permits no
delay--"

"I doubt not!" broke in Elizabeth. "The Hessians are probably chasing you."

"On the contrary, I am chasing the Hessians. At Boar Hill, yonder, my horse gave out. 'Tis
important my troops lose no time. Passing here, we saw horses being led into your stable. I
ordered one of my men to take the best of your beasts, and put my saddle on it,--and he is
now doing so."

"How dare you, sir!" and Elizabeth came quickly to the foot of the stairs, a picture of regal,
flaming wrath.

"Why, madam," said Peyton, "'tis for the service of the army. I require the horse, and I have
come here to pay for it--"

"It is not for sale--"

"That makes no difference. You know the custom of war."

"The custom of robbery!" cried Elizabeth.

Captain Peyton reddened.

"Robbery is not the custom of Harry Lee's dragoons, madam," said he, "whatever be the practice
of the wretched 'Skinners' or of De Lancey's Tory Cowboys. I shall pay you as you choose,--with
a receipt to present at the quartermaster's office, or with Continental bills."

"Continental rubbish!"

And, indeed, Elizabeth was not far from the truth in the appellation so contemptuously hurled.

"You prefer that, do you?" said Peyton, unruffled; whereupon he took from within his waistcoat
a long, thick pocketbook, and from that a number of bills; which must have been for high amounts,
for he rapidly counted out only a score or two of them, repocketing the rest, and at that time,
thereabouts, "a rat in shape of a horse," as Washington himself had complained a month before,
was "not to be bought for less than £200."[4] Peyton handed her the bills he had counted out.
"There's a fair price, then," said he; "allowing for depreciation. The current rate is five
to one,--I allow six."

Elizabeth looked disdainfully at the proffered bills, and made no move to take them.

"Pah!" she cried. "I wouldn't touch your wretched Continental trash. I wouldn't let one of
my black women put her hair up in it. Money, do you call it? I wouldn't give a shilling of
the King for a houseful of it."

"I beg your pardon," said Peyton, cheerfully. "Since July in '76 there has been no king in
America. I leave the bills, madam." He laid them on the newel post, beside the candlestick.
"'Tis all I can do, and more than many a man would do, seeing that Colonel Philipse, the owner
of this place, is no friend to the American cause, and may fairly be levied on as an enemy--"

"Colonel Philipse is my father!"

"Then I'm glad I've been punctilious in the matter," said Peyton, but without any increase
of deference. "Egad, I think I've been as scrupulous as the commander-in-chief himself!"

"The commander-in-chief!" echoed Elizabeth. "Sir Henry Clinton pays in gold."

"I meant our commander-in-chief," with a suavity most irritating.

"Mr. Washington!" said Elizabeth, scornfully, with a slight emphasis on the "Mr."

"His Excellency, General Washington." Peyton spoke as one would in gently correcting a child
who was impolite. Then he added, "I think the horse is now ready; so I bid you good evening!"

And he strode towards the door.

Elizabeth was now fully awake to the certainty that one of the horses would indeed be taken.
At Peyton's movement she ran to the door, reaching it before he did, and looked out. What she
saw, transformed her into a very fury.

"Oh, this outrage!" she cried, facing about and addressing those in the hall. "It is my Cato
they are leading out! My Cato! Under my very eyes! I forbid it! He shall not go! Where are
Cuff and the servants? Why don't they prevent? And you, Jack?"

She turned to Colden for the first time since Peyton's arrival.

"My troop would make short work of any who interfered, madam," said Peyton, warningly, still
looking at Elizabeth only.

"Oh, that I should have to endure this!" she said. "Oh, if I had but a company of soldiers
at my back, you dog of a rebel!"

And she paced the hall in a great passion. Passing the newel post, she noticed the Continental
bills. She took these up, violently tore them across, and threw the pieces about the hall,
as one tosses corn about a chicken-yard.

Major Colden had been having a most uncomfortable five minutes. As a Tory officer, he was in
close peril of being made prisoner by this Continental captain and the latter's troop outside,
and this peril was none the less since he had so adversely criticised Peyton in the talk which
had led to the duel in Bayard's woods. He had not put himself on friendly terms with Peyton
after that affair. There was still no reason for any other feeling towards him, on Peyton's
part, than resentment. Now Jack Colden had no relish for imprisonment at the hands of the despised
rebels. Moreover, he had no wish that Elizabeth should learn of his former defeat by Peyton.
He had kept the meeting in Bayard's woods a secret, thanks to Peyton's having quitted New York
immediately after it, and to the relation of dependence in which the two only witnesses stood
to him. Thus it was that he had remained well out of view during Elizabeth's sharp interview
with Peyton, being unwilling alike to be known as a Tory officer, and to be recognized by Peyton.
His civilian's cloak hid his uniform and weapons; the dimness of the candle-light screened
his face.

But matters had reached a point where he could not, without appearing a coward, refrain longer
from taking a hand. He stepped forward from the dark remoteness.

"Sir," said he to Peyton, politely, "I know the custom of war. But since a horse must be taken,
you will find one of mine in the stable. Will you not take it instead of this lady's?"

Peyton had been scrutinizing Colden's features.

"Mr. Colden, if I remember," he said, when the major had finished.

"You remember right," said Colden, with a bow, concealing behind a not too well assumed quietude
what inward tremors the situation caused him.

"And you are doubtless now an officer in some Tory corps?" said Peyton, quickly.

"No, sir, I am neutral," replied Colden, rather huskily, with an instant's glance of warning
at Elizabeth.

"Gad!" said Peyton, with a smile, still closely surveying the major. "From your sentiments
the time I met you in New York in '75, I should have thought you'd take up arms for the King."

"That was before the Declaration of Independence," said Colden, in a tone scarcely more than
audible. "I have modified my opinions."

"They were strong enough then," Peyton went on. "You remember how you upheld them with a rapier
in Bayard's woods?"

"I remember," said Colden, faintly, first reddening, then taking on a pale and sickly look,
as if a prey to hidden chagrin and rage.

It seemed as if his tormentor intended to torture him interminably. Peyton, who knew that one
of his men would come for him as soon as the horse should be saddled and bridled, remained
facing the unhappy major, wearing that frank half-smile which, from the triumphant to the crestfallen,
seems so insolent and is so maddening.

"I've often thought," said Peyton, "I deserved small credit for getting the better of you that
day. I had taken lessons from London fencing-masters." (Consider that the woman whom Colden
loved was looking on, and that this was all news to her, and imagine how he raged beneath the
outer calmness he had, for safety's sake, to wear.) "'Twas no hard thing to disarm you, and
I'm not sorry you're neutral now. For if you wore British or Tory uniform, 'twould be my duty
to put you again at disadvantage, by taking you prisoner."

The face of one of Peyton's men now appeared in the doorway. Peyton nodded to him, then continued
to address the major.

"As for your request, my traps are now on the other horse, and there is not time to change.
I must ride at once."

He stepped quickly to the door, and on the threshold turned to bow.

Then cried Elizabeth:

"May you ride to your destruction, for your impudence, you bandit!"

"Thank you, madam! I shall ride where I must! Farewell! My horse is waiting."

And in an instant he was gone, having closed the door after him with a bang.

"His horse! The highwayman!" quoth Elizabeth.

"Give the gentleman his due," said Miss Sally, in a way both mollified and mollifying. "He
paid for it with those." She indicated the strewn fragments of the Continental bills on the floor.

"Forward! Get up!"

It was the voice of Captain Peyton outside. The horses were heard riding away from the lawn.

Elizabeth opened the door and looked out. Her aunt accompanied her. Old Valentine gazed with
a sagely deploring expression at the torn-up bills on the floor. Colden stood where he had
been, lest by some chance the enemy might return and discover his relief from straint.

"Oh," cried Elizabeth, at the door, as the light horsemen filed out the gate and up the branch
road towards the highway, "to see the miserable rebel mounted on my Cato!"

"He looks well on him," said her aunt.

It was a brief flow of light from the fresh-risen moon, between wind-driven clouds, that enabled
Miss Sally to make this observation.

"Looks well! The tatterdemalion!" And Elizabeth came from the door, as if loathing further
sight of him.

But Miss Sally continued to look after the riders, as their dark forms were borne rapidly towards
the post-road. "Nay, I think he is quite handsome."

"Pah! You think every man is handsome!" said the niece, curtly.

Miss Sally turned from the door, quite shocked.

"Why, Elizabeth, you know I'm the least susceptible of women!"

Old Mr. Valentine nodded sadly, as much as to say, "I know that, all too well!"

As the racing clouds now rushed over the moon, and the horsemen's figures, having become more
and more blurred, were lost in the blackness, Miss Sally closed and bolted the door. The horses
were faintly heard coming to a halt, at about the junction of the branch road with the highway,
then moving on again rapidly, not further towards the south, as might have been expected, but
back northward, and finally towards the east. Meanwhile Elizabeth stood in the hall, her rage
none the less that its object was no longer present to have it wreaked on him. Such hate, such
passionate craving for revenge, had never theretofore been awakened in her. And when she realized
the unlikelihood of any opportunity for satisfaction, she was exasperated to the limit of self-control.

"If you had only had some troops here!" she said to Colden.

"I know it! May the rascal perish for finding me at such a disadvantage! 'Twas my choice between
denying my colors and becoming his prisoner."

This brought back to Elizabeth's mind the talk between Colden and Peyton, which her feelings
had for the time driven from her thoughts. But now a natural curiosity asserted itself.

"So you knew the fellow before?"

"I met him in '75," said Colden, blurting awkwardly into the explanation that he knew had to
be made, though little was his stomach for it. "He was passing through New York from Boston
to his home in Virginia, after he had deserted from the King's army--"

"Deserted?" Elizabeth opened wide her eyes.

Colden briefly outlined, as far as was desirable, what he knew of Peyton's story.

It was Miss Sally who then said:

"And he disarmed you in a duel?"

"He had practised under London fencing-masters, as he but now admitted," replied Colden, grumpily.
"He made no secret of his desertion; and in a coffee-house discussion I said it was a dastardly
act. So we--fought. Since then I've met officers of the regiment he left. Such a thing was
never known before,--the desertion of an officer of the Sixty-third,--and General Grant, its
colonel, has the word of Sir Henry Clinton that this fellow shall hang if they ever catch him."

"Then I hope my horse will carry him into their hands!" said Elizabeth, heartily. "My poor
Cato! I shall never see him again!"

"We may get him back some day," said Colden, for want of aught better to say.

"If you can do that, John Colden, and have this rebel hanged who dared treat me so--" Elizabeth
paused, and her look dwelt on the major's face.

"Well?"

"Then I think I shall almost be really in love with you!"

But Colden sighed. "A rare promise from one's betrothed!"

"Heavens, Jack!" said Elizabeth, now diverted from the thought of her horse. "Don't I do the
best I can to love you? I'm sure I come as near loving you as loving anybody. What more can
I do than that, and promising my hand? Don't look dismal, major, I pray,--and now make haste
back to New York."

"How can I go and leave you exposed to the chance of another visit from some troop of rebels?"
pleaded Colden, in a kind of peevish despair, taking up his hat from the settle.

"Oh, that fellow showed no disposition to injure me!" she answered, reassuringly. "Trust me
to take care of myself."

"But promise that if there's any sign of danger, you will fly to New York."

"That will depend on the circumstances. I may be safer in this house than on the road."

"Then, at least, you will have guns fired, and also send a man to one of our outposts for help?"
There was no pretence in the young man's solicitude. Such a bride as Elizabeth Philipse was
not to be found every day. The thought of losing her was poignant misery to him.

"To which one?" she asked. "The Hessian camp by Tippett's Brook, or the Highlanders', at Valentine's
Hill?"

"No," said Colden, meditating. "Those may be withdrawn if the weather is bad. Send to the barrier
at King's Bridge,--but if your man meets one of our patrols or pickets on the way, so much
the better. Good-by! I shall see your father to-night, and then rejoin my regiment on Staten
Island."

He took her hand, bent over it, and kissed it.

"Be careful you don't fall in with those rebel dragoons," said Elizabeth, lightly, as his lips
dwelt on her fingers.

"No danger of that," put in old Valentine, from the settle, for the moment ceasing to chew
an imaginary cud. "They took the road to Mile Square." The octogenarian's hearing was better
than his sight.

"I shall notify our officers below that this rebel force is out," said Colden, "and our dragoons
may cut it off somewhere. Farewell, then! I shall return for you in a week."

"In a week," repeated Elizabeth, indifferently.

He kissed her hand again, bowed to Miss Sally, and hastened from the hall, closing the door
behind him. Once outside, he made his way to the stables, where he knew that Cuff, not having
returned to Elizabeth, must still be.

"It's little reward you give that gentleman's devotion, Elizabeth," said Miss Sally, when he
had gone.

"Why, am I not going to give him myself? Come, aunty, don't preach on that old topic. My parents
wish me to be married to Jack Colden, and I have consented, being an obedient child,--in some
things."

"More obedient to your own whims than to anything else," was Miss Sally's comment.

The sound of Colden's horse departing brought to the amiable aunt the thought of a previous
departure.

"That fine young rebel captain!" said she. "If our troops take him they'll hang him! Gracious!
As if there were so many handsome young men that any could be spared! Why can't they hang the
old and ugly ones instead?"

Mr. Valentine suspended his chewing long enough to bestow on Miss Sally a look of vague suspicion.

The door, which had not been locked or bolted after Colden's going, was suddenly flung open
to admit Cuff. The negro boy had been thrown by the dragoons' visit into an almost comatose
condition of fright, from which the orders of Colden had but now sufficiently restored him
to enable his venturing out of the stable. He now stood trembling in fear of Elizabeth's reproof,
stammering out a wild protestation of his inability to save the horse by force, and of his
inefficacious attempts to save him by prayer.

Elizabeth cut him short with the remark, intended rather for her own satisfaction than for
aught else, that one thing was to be hoped,--the chance of war might pay back the impertinent
rebel who had stolen the horse. She then gave orders that the hall and the east parlor be lighted
up.

"For the proper reception," she added to her aunt, "of the next handsome rebel captain who
may condescend to honor us with a visit. Mr. Valentine, wait in the parlor till supper is ready.
I'll have a fire made there. Come, aunt Sally, we'll discuss over a cup of tea the charms of
your pretty rebel captain and his agreeable way of relieving ladies of their favorite horses.
I'll warrant he'll look handsomer than ever, on the gallows, when our soldiers catch him."

And she went blithely up the stairs, which at the first landing turned rightward to a second
landing, and thence rightward again to the upper hall. The darkness was interrupted by a narrow
stream of light from a slightly open doorway in the north side of this upper hall. This was
the doorway to her own room, and when she crossed the threshold she saw a bright blaze in the
fireplace, lights in a candelabrum, cups and saucers on a table, and Molly bringing in a steaming
teapot from the next room, which, being northward, was nearer the kitchen stairs. This next
room, too, was lighted up. Solid wooden shutters, inside the windows of both chambers, kept
the light from being seen without, and the wind from being felt within.

As Elizabeth was looking around her room, smiling affectionately on its many well-remembered
and long-neglected objects, there was a sudden distant detonation. Molly looked up inquiringly,
but Elizabeth directed her to place the tea things, find fresh candles, if any were left in
the house, and help Cuff put them on the chandelier in the lower hall, and then get supper.
As Molly left the room, Miss Sally entered it.

"Elizabeth! Oh, child! There's firing beyond Locust Hill. It's on the Mile Square road, Mr.
Valentine says,--cavalry pistols and rangers' muskets."

"Mr. Valentine has a fine ear."

"He says the rebel light horse must have met the Hessians! There 'tis again!"

"Sit down, aunt, and have a dish of tea. Ah-h! This is comfortable! Delicious! Let them kill
one another as they please, beyond Locust Hill; let the wind race up the Hudson and the Albany
road as it likes,--we're snugly housed!"

Williams, who had, from the upper hall, safely overheard Captain Peyton's intrusion, and had
not seen occasion for his own interference, now came in from the next room, which he had been
making ready for Miss Sally, and received Elizabeth's orders concerning the east parlor.

Meanwhile, what of Harry Peyton and his troop?

Riding up the little tree-lined road towards the highway, they saw dark forms of other riders
standing at the point of junction. These were the men whom Peyton had directed to patrol the
road. They now told him that, by the account of a belated farmer whom they had halted, the
Hessians had turned from the highway into the Mile Square road. Peyton immediately led his
men to that road. Thus, as old Valentine said, that part of the highway between the manor-house
and King's Bridge remained clear of these rebel dragoons, and Major Colden stood in no danger
of meeting them on his return to New York. The major, nevertheless, did not spare his horse
as he pursued his lonely way through the windy darkness. When he arrived at King's Bridge he
was glad to give his horse another rest, and to accept an invitation to a bottle and a game
in the tavern where the British commanding officer was quartered.

The Hessians had not gone far on the Mile Square road, when their leader called a halt and
consulted with his subordinate officer. They were now near Mile Square, where the Tory captain,
James De Lancey, kept a recruiting station all the year round, and Valentine's Hill, where
there was a regiment of Highlanders. Their own security was thus assured, but they might do
more than come off in safety,--they might strike a parting blow at their pursuers. A plan was
quickly formed. A messenger was despatched to Mile Square to request a small reinforcement.
The troop then turned back towards the highway, having planned for either one of two possibilities.
The first was that the rebel dragoons, not thinking the Hessians had turned into the Mile Square
road, would ride on down the highway. In that case, the Hessians would follow them, having
become in their turn the pursuers, and would fall upon their rear. The noise of firearms would
alarm the Hessian camp by Tippett's Brook, below, and the rebels would thus be caught between
two forces. The second possibility was that the Americans would follow into the Mile Square
road. When the sound of their horses soon told that this was the reality, the Hessians promptly
prepared to meet it.

The force divided into two parts. The foremost blocked the road, near a turning, so as to remain
unseen by the approaching rebels until almost the moment of collision. The second force stayed
some rods behind the first, forming in two lines, one along each side of the road. As to each
force, some were armed with sabres and cavalry pistols, but most, being mounted yagers of Van
Wrumb's battalion, with rifles.

As for the little detachment of Lee's Light Horse that was now galloping along the Mile Square
road, under Harry Peyton's command, the arms were mainly broadswords and pistols, but some
of the men had rifles or light muskets.

The troop went forward at a gallop against the wind, there being just sufficient light for
keen eyes to make out the road ahead. Harry Peyton was inwardly deploring the loss of time
at Philipse Manor-house, and fearing that the prey would reach its covert, when suddenly the
moon appeared in a cloud-rift, the troops passed a turn in the road, and there stood a line
of Hessians barring the way.

Ere Peyton could give an order, came one loud, flaming, whistling discharge from that living
barrier. Harry's horse--Elizabeth Philipse's Cato--reared, as did others of his troop. Some
of the men came to a quick stop, others were borne forward by the impetus of their former speed,
but soon reined in for orders. No man fell, though one groaned, and two cursed.

Harry got his horse under control, drew his broadsword with his right hand, his pistol with
his left,--which held also the rein,--and ordered his men to charge, to fire at the moment
of contact, then to cut, slash, and club. So the little troop, the well and the wounded alike,
dashed forward.

But the line of Hessians, as soon as they had fired, turned and fled, passing between the two
lines of the second force, and stopping at some further distance to reform and reload. The
second force, being thus cleared by the first, wheeled quickly into the road, and formed a
second barrier against Peyton's oncoming troop.

Peyton's men, intoxicated by the powder-smell that filled their nostrils as they passed through
the smoke of the Hessians' first volley, bore down on this second barrier with furious force.
They were the best riders in the world, and many a one of them held his broadsword aloft in
one hand, his pistol raised in the other, the rein loose on his horse's neck; while those with
long-barrelled weapons aimed them on the gallop.

The Hessians and Peyton's foremost men fired at the same moment. The Hessians had not time
to turn and flee, for the Americans, unchecked by this second greeting of fire, came on at
headlong speed. "At 'em, boys!" yelled Peyton, discharging his pistol at a tall yager, who
fell sidewise from his horse with a fierce German oath. The light horse men dashed between
the Hessians' steeds, and there was hewing and hacking.

A Hessian officer struck with a sabre at Peyton's left arm, but only knocked the pistol from
his hand. Peyton then found himself threatened on the right by a trooper, and slashed at him
with broadsword. The blow went home, but the sword's end became entangled somehow with the
breast bones of the victim. A yager, thinking to deprive Peyton of the sword, brought down
a musket-butt heavily on it. But Peyton's grip was firm, and the sword snapped in two, the
hilt in his hand, the point in its human sheath. At that instant Peyton felt a keen smart in
his left leg. It came from a second sabre blow aimed by the Hessian officer, who might have
followed it with a third, but that he was now attacked elsewhere. Peyton had no sooner clapped
his hand to his wounded leg than he was stunned by a blow from the rifle-butt of the yager
who had previously struck the sword. Harry fell forward on the horse's neck, which he grasped
madly with both arms, still holding the broken sword in his right hand; and lapsed from a full
sense of the tumult, the plunging and shrieking horses, the yelling and cursing men, the whirr
and clash of swords, and the thuds of rifle-blows, into blind, red, aching, smarting half-consciousness.

When he was again aware of things, he was still clasping the horse's neck, and was being borne
alone he knew not whither. His head ached, and his left leg was at every movement a seat of
the sharpest pain. He was dizzy, faint, bleeding,--and too weak to raise himself from his position.
He could not hear any noise of fighting, but that might have been drowned by the singing in
his ears. He tried to sit up and look around, but the effort so increased his pain and so drew
on his nigh-fled strength, that he fell forward on the horse's neck, exhausted and half-insensible.
The horse, which had merely turned and run from the conflict at the moment of Peyton's loss
of sense, galloped on.

Clouds had darkened the moon in time to prevent their captain's unintentional defection from
being seen by his troops. They had, therefore, fought on against such antagonists as, in the
darkness, they could keep located. The moon reappeared, and showed many of the Hessians making
for the wooded hill near by, and some fleeing to the force that had re-formed further on the
road. Some of the Americans charged this force, which thereupon fired a volley and fled, having
the more time therefor inasmuch as the charging dragoons did not this time possess their former
speed and impetus. The dragoons, in disorder and without a leader, came to a halt. Becoming
aware of Peyton's absence, they sought in vain the scene of recent conflict. It was soon inferred
that he had been wounded, and, therefore of no further use in the combat, had retreated to
a safe resting-place. It was decided useless to follow the enemy further towards the near British
posts, whence the Hessians might be reinforced,--as they would have been, had they held the
ground longer. So, having had much the better of the fight, the surviving dragoons galloped
back towards the post-road, expecting to come upon their captain, wounded, by the wayside,
at any moment. He might, indeed, to make sure of safe refuge, ride as far towards the American
lines as the wound he must have received would allow him to do.

Such were the doings, on the windy night, beyond Locust Hill, while Elizabeth Philipse and
her aunt sat drinking tea by candle-light before a sputtering wood fire. Elizabeth having set
the example, the others in the house went about their business, despite the firing so plainly
heard. Black Sam had, after Elizabeth's arrival, returned from the orchard, whither he had
gone late in the day, lest he might attract the attention of some dodging whale-boat or skulking
Whig to the few remaining apples. He had been let in at a rear door by Williams, who had repressed
him during the visit of the American dragoons,--for Sam was a sturdy, bold fellow, of different
kidney from the dapper, citified Cuff. At Williams's order he had made a roaring fire in the
east parlor, to the great comfort of old Mr. Valentine, and was now putting the dining-room
into a similar state of warmth and light. Williams was setting out provisions for Molly presently
to cook; and the maid herself was, with Cuff's assistance, replenishing the hall chandelier
with fresh candles.

The sound of firing had put Elizabeth's black boy into a tremulous and white-eyed state. When
Molly, who stood on the settle while he handed the candles up to her, assured him that the
firing was t'other side of Locust Hill, that the bullets would not penetrate the mahogany door,
and that anyhow only one bullet in a hundred ever hit any one, Cuff affrightedly observed 'twas
just that one bullet he was afraid of; and when, at the third discharge, Molly dropped a candle
on his woolly head, he fell prostrate, howling that he was shot. Molly convinced him after
awhile that he was alive, but he averred he had actually had a glimpse of the harps and the
golden streets, though the prospect of soon possessing them had rather appalled him, as indeed
it does many good people who are so sure of heaven and so fond of it. He had been reassured
but a short time, when he had new cause for terror. Again a horse was heard galloping up to
the house. It stopped before the door and gave a loud whinny.

Molly exchanged with Cuff a look of mingled wonder, delight, and doubt; then ran and opened
the front door.

"Yes!" she cried. "It is! It's Miss Elizabeth's horse! It's Cato!"

Cuff ran to the threshold in great joy, but suddenly stopped short.

"Dey's a soldier on hees back," he whispered.

So Molly had noticed,--but a soldier who made no demonstration, a soldier who leaned forward
on the horse's neck and clutched its mane, holding at the same time in one hand a broken sword,
and who tried to sit up, but only emitted a groan of pain.

"He's wounded, that's it," said Molly. "Go and help the poor soldier in, Cuff. Don't you see
he's injured? He can't hurt you."

Molly enforced her commands with such physical persuasions that Cuff, ere he well knew what
he was about, was helping Peyton from the horse. The captain, revived by a supreme effort,
leaned on the boy's shoulder and came limping and lurching across the porch into the hall.
Molly then went to his assistance, and with this additional aid he reached the settle, on which
he dropped, weak, pale, and panting. He took a sitting posture, gasped his thanks to Molly,
and, noticing the blood from his leg wound, called damnation on the Hessian officer's sword.
Presently he asked for a drink of water.

At Molly's bidding the negro boy hastened for water, and also to inform his mistress of the
arrival. Elizabeth, hearing the news, rose with an exclamation; but, taking thought, sat down
again, and, with a pretence of composure, finished her cup of tea. Cuff returned with a glass
of water to the hall, where Molly was listening to Peyton's objurgations on his condition.
The captain took the glass eagerly, and was about to drink, when a footstep was heard on the
stairs. He turned his head and saw Elizabeth.

"Here's my respects, madam," quoth he, and drank off the water.

Elizabeth came down-stairs and took a position where she could look Peyton well over. He watched
her with some wonderment. When she was quite ready she spoke:

"So, it is, indeed, the man who stole my horse."

"Pardon. I think your horse has stolen me! It made me an intruder here quite against my will,
I assure you."

"You will doubtless not honor us by remaining?" There was more seriousness of curiosity in
this question than Elizabeth betrayed or Peyton perceived.

"What can I do? I can neither ride nor walk."

"But your men will probably come for you?"

"I don't think any saw the horse bear me from the fight. The field was in smoke and darkness.
My troops must have pursued the enemy. They'll think me killed or made prisoner. If they return
this way, however, I can have them stop and take me along."

"Then you expect that, in repayment of your treatment of me awhile ago--" Elizabeth paused.

"Madam, you should allow for the exigencies of war! Yet, if you wish to turn me out--"

Elizabeth interrupted him:

"So it is true that, if you fell into the hands of the British, they would hang you?"

"Doubtless! But you shouldn't blame me for what they'd do. And how did you know?"

"Help this gentleman into the east parlor," said Elizabeth, abruptly, to Cuff.

"Ah!" cried Peyton, his face lighting up with quick gratitude. Better that the people the dead head on the bar as the living Man mocked.
"Though the old king was still speaking much at all and free with a vengeance to him from his
purpose was looking for, so it did not matter, but he finally had to give. The race was the next day
go on. When the prince had gone, said the father to his daughter, words overheard the long-eared
man in the inn and the king's son again said, "Dear child, you've fallen to this day many young men
into ruin, which I have often grieved the heart. But none of the suitors was immolated so much according
to my sense that the young prince, tomorrow the power of his legs in the race will try it out
with you, he is a thriving man and wise speech. Out of love to me hemme tomorrow the speed
of your feet so that the suitor or his servants defeat you, and I finally get a son, the heir
to the kingdom after my death, I no son have. "-" What, "replied the princess, while her face
reddened with pride and anger, "I want to deny a boy's sake, the strength of my feet, thereby
under the Hood to come? No, absolutely not, my life I will stay an old maid. Who Herget rubbed him?
I have not called him, any more than those who before him here howsoever caused. In our wood
or wood grows enough for his foolish head and all, by his peers to take, if put on the air so
that their great heat . Cool Do you like the suitors, so rather sends him home again, before
he tries to run, But put your trust in me no mercy for him. Who does not want to hear must
feel. "The King saw that his daughter had been steadfast in this land and gave all the other opposition
on.

After this, the ears man the king's son had told this conversation, was the swift- Servants into the room
and said: "I am ashamed to walk around the case before the people
with my millstones kaufet prefer six ox skins, let make it into a
knapsack, then kaufet still add to the weight for the knapsack as
much iron as the weigh my Fußsteine, it is all right, then people
be me for a traveling journeyman.

"The prince met without opposition the man could desire, furs and iron buy as much as was deemed
necessary, and the Next morning was the school bag ready in time. The man took the knapsack on his back
and got into gear, although the unusual load on the back foot a bit strange at first occurred, they
would turn away from these more remote ankle not quite know until they gradually add also learned
this inhibition.

On the appointed place for the race are a countless number of people had gathered; who laughed
a man on the knapsack, the others said: "A reasonable person is anxious run if he wants to put
the extra clothes, but this man is not it occurred to . Even the knapsack on his own to do
"The man ears these speeches reported immediately to the king's son;
but the runners did not notice her.

To the racetrack was a lane on the length of a mile marked out and planted with trees on both
sides, the date protection against the burning Heat of the sun gave. At the end of the alley a
little spring bubbled with water from the soil forth. It was determined that the race ends run with
an empty bottle at the source and there were to fill the bottle with water, and then who the running
back, be it a or two steps back before the others arrive, which should be the winner. But
when the Princess and the suitor footed servant to the given character to expire at the same time,
It did not take long at all, the knapsack man like the wind on the Virgin was over, ran to
the source, filled the bottle and went to the return. On the half-way he had the king's daughter,
the first ran counter to the source. "Hold on a little, little brother," asked the princess, "I
have sprained my foot a bit. Give me your flask from a few drops of water on the foot and a
breather, then we will go forward again. "" I care, "said the man, "I've no hurry, I stay, if you will
sit here until you come back from the source, we will walk next to each other. "When he niedersaß
but to rest, and no cheating feared that he held the king's daughter, as if they flatter him, a sleeping
herb under the nose so that he fell into sleep. Then he took the maiden, the filled bottle from
his hand and went limping to the return. The man eyes saw the incident, took his gun and shot
a branch from a tree down so cleverly that the same on the Schnellfuß The nose fell and woke
him from sleep. To his horror, the man finds a blank Bottle and sees that the girl is already ahead of
a route on the way back. Now strained his feet on that heel sprayed sparks flew, for the second
time to the source, filled the Bottle and then rushed back like the wind. True, he took the
princess already, as still a good distance to the target was left, and arrived a few moments before
to her. The victory was the suitor remained, this time his head on the bar had sold, but the princess
went home angry courage, for such 'a Antics they had not yet experienced in her life that any
human being faster had feet as if she had herself. The prince went with his servants in the
inn had a splendid meal serve and made the runner, a rich gift, as are even the shooter, who had
woken up the runner at the right time. However, could the Noise of the feast not to confuse
the hearing of the man's ears, that he had not heard Meanwhile, what was said in the royal
family between father and daughter. "Now, dear child!" said the King, "you have to marry you,
because nothing helps, your feet, speed is overcome by the faster. I'm quite happy about it,
because first are now no More men arrive, and secondly, I get a son who, after in every way
my senses. "The King is wanted to talk further, but there came suddenly the Daughter tongue straps,
which had tied up the anger by that time and now rushed out of the beautiful Mouth the speech
as the waterfall's water wheel, so that the king was not able yet put forward a little further.
Since no one INCAPABLE to reproduce the speech word for word, I will only communicate in the
near future the core of it. The daughter protested with the most memorable Words, if the father
wants to marry by force, it would probably advance their lives can, but to become the wife of
the man who carried his servant by chance they have won, this was to no power on earth to force.
When at length to tip of the daughter was tired and could throw the king again, and the other
word in between, trying He is now with threats, now with flattering words, but all in vain.
"I care," exclaimed the daughter, "you like him half the kingdom to offer as compensation,
but the woman he will not get me as long as life is in me. "The prince was very annoyed, had reported
the man ears these speeches. But the Baumlupfer said: "Sadly you about but not girls there
is more to the world as so says a king's daughter, and also finer and finer as it is. Longs
from the king's treasury as much gold as a man can carry them in a bag on his back as compensation cost,
and let the Daughter alone until they mildewed, with all their possessions, so that no one she
comes to see let alone free. "The council was after the prince's taste, so he said The next
morning when he heard of the old king's mouth, the ears man what he already had reported yesterday:
"So it may have for my sake with the wooing be content. I I will take with you if you give me from
your treasury as much gold and gold value to compensate for my long journey promise, a man
carried away in a bag on his back can. The king promised without hesitation, and was glad that
he was so inexpensive purchase it was because the boy would have half the kingdom called for settlement,
he would have have to give so but he came with a bag full of going gold. The king thought in his
mind: I thought the young man for clever as he is, but he knows the weight of gold not to mention
the all but the strongest man who can not do much. Then separated the men, both very satisfied
with the completed trade.

In the inn Baumlupfer said to the king's son, "Now schicket servant in the city and let All
the canvas, which can be found in the shops buying up, then bringeth fifty tailors together
and let out the sail a six double blind stitch, as long and wide as will extend the fabric.
With the sack and I will take from the treasury of the ransom you shall serve to compensate for
the Virgin. "The prince did so, and promised the Bock riders rich reward when they sew the sack the
night until the morning would be ready. If, as they say, already the champion beef dish on
the stove, oven [11], the needle of the Schneider's wings, one can easily imagine how much more
the son of the king promised Wages did so. The Schneider teased all night at the canvas and everyone
was just waiting careful to guard his eyes from the man next to him the needle in their swing
is not go into the eye. Sometime before mid-morning (9 clock), the men had finished the bag and
almost all Seams were sewn twice.

Schneider received the wages and so much gratuity moreover, that they favor, even though the work
had lasted only one night, three days in the hostel could hold banquets. The Baumlupfer then took his bag
on his back and took it to the king's treasury as treasurer to the filling of the empty bag
to demand. saw as the Treasurer of the deep blind baseless, he said mockingly: "You probably
have missed the right way, brother, you were safe in any Kaffscheune, for the money it would
have taken not of such a bag truly "The blind man replied.: "Well, the bag is over the remaining
free edge not mourn [12], I can not into doing as I am able carry off. "So speaking with each
other, they were to come to the treasury. When the doors were open and all the tons of gold Which
were discovered, said the treasurer, "What do you think you dare you well from the ? To fill bag
and then removed from the field, "The blind man replied," You'll see; who can boast one thing
to be safe until he has tried them? My Lord had, when he came from, The firm hopes to go back
to a young woman gets, but now no better Wage than a bag full of money. Well, money is often better
than a bitch. "The Treasurer said mockingly, "Too bad you did not bring any blade that would
shorten the work to fill out by hand because the bag is so boring, especially when the bag
is so big. " The Baumlupfer replied: "My late father often said, jokingly, if a man does not
Hat can still scoop, he must either from the edge of the bucket or from the bung hole abschlürfen.
"With these words he picked up the first gold per tonne as a basket down, asked to keep the opening
of the bag apart and then poured into the money that It clanged. Now the Treasurer has already
been frightened, but when it the second and third Ton fared no better, as was the little man,
pale as a whitewashed wall. After a While all were cleared tons of gold, the bag was not even
half full. The Carrier asked: "Does your king for no greater treasure" in gold bullion is
still found back of box, but it is generally considered to have not. "Well, bring it on,"
said the Baumlupfer and emptied the box as purely as before the tons. Then, when all the nooks
and crannies were empty, he took the sack on his back and walked back to the inn.

The unlocking was the treasurer this time do not worry, so he ran as a Brake pin to tell the king
the disaster. The old King was no less than he heard the incident, sent for her daughter and cried,
"Now look what a disaster your obstinate rebellion has caused. All supply of money is gone,
has the free kapp and made me bald as a church mouse. What a king I am now? A ruler no money
has neither head nor tail to providing our enemies the top. When the soldiers heard, I have nothing
more to them to pay their wages, they diverge. "Since the daughter said: "That can not remain
the case, we have by craft or force them looking to snatch the treasure again. "But before
they had time to list any try was already news that the prince had left the city. "Now must
we use violence, "said the daughter. "Let instantly summon all the host and pursue the mischievous
Free, who was not with his heavy load but fast Next may come. "The order was immediately carried
out. The next day the army was assembled; we broke up, the money continues nachzusetzen leading
man, especially the cavalry, on the Infantry and the last king with his daughter in a carriage.
One third of the gold from the treasury, of the enemy-free should be taken off, was the men
of war the promised gifts, that they might pursue more heated

.


"I sha'n't send him to the troops," said Elizabeth, in her usual tone, not caring whether or
not the prisoner should be disturbed,--for in his powerlessness he could not oppose her plans
if he did know them, and in her disdain she had no consideration for his feelings. "The troops
shall come for him. Black Sam shall go to the watch-house at King's Bridge with word that there's
an important rebel prisoner held here, to be had for the taking."

"Will the troops at King's Bridge heed the story of a black man?" Aunt Sally seemed desirous
of interposing objections to immediate action.

"Their officer will heed a written message from me," said the niece. "Most of the officers
know me, and those at King's Bridge are aware I came here to-day."

Thereupon she called in Cuff, and sent him off for Williams, with orders that the steward should
bring her pen, ink, paper, and wax.

"Oh, Elizabeth!" cried Miss Sally, looking at the floor. "Here's some of the poor fellow's
blood on the carpet."

"Never mind. The blood of an enemy is a sight easily tolerated," said the girl, probably unaware
how nearly she had duplicated a famous utterance of a certain King of France, whose remark
had borne reference to another sense than that of sight.[6]

Williams soon came in with the writing materials, and placed them, at Elizabeth's direction,
on a table that stood between the two eastern windows, and on which was a lighted candelabrum.
Elizabeth sat down at the table, her back towards the fireplace and Peyton.

"I wish you to send black Sam to me," said she to the steward, "and to take his place on guard
with the gun till he returns from an errand."

Williams departed, and Elizabeth began to make the quill fly over the paper, her aunt looking
on from beside the table. Peyton opened his eyes and looked at them.

"It does seem a pity," said Miss Sally at last. "Such a pretty gentleman,--such a gallant soldier!"

"Gentleman?" echoed Elizabeth, writing on. "The fellow is not a gentleman! Nor a gallant soldier!"

Peyton rose to a sitting posture as if stung by a hornet, but was instantly reminded of his
wound. But neither Elizabeth nor her aunt saw or heard his movement. The girl, unaware that
he was awake, continued:

"Does a gentleman or a gallant soldier desert the army of his king to join that of his king's
enemies?"

Quick came the answer,--not from aunt Sally, but from Peyton on the sofa.

"A gallant soldier has the right to choose his side, and a gentleman need not fight against
his country!"

Elizabeth did not suffer herself to appear startled at this sudden breaking in. Having finished
her note, she quietly folded it, and addressed it, while she said:

"A gallant soldier, having once chosen his side, will be loyal to it; and a gentleman never
bore the odious title of deserter."

"A gentleman can afford to wear any title that is redeemed by a glorious cause and an extraordinary
danger. When I took service with the King's army in England, I never dreamt that army would
be sent against the King's own colonies; and not till I arrived in Boston did I know the true
character of this revolt. We thought we were coming over merely to quell a lawless Boston rabble.
I gave in my resignation--"

"But did not wait for it to be accepted," interrupted Elizabeth, quietly, as she applied to
the folded paper the wax softened by the flame of a candle.

"I was a little hasty," said Harry.

"The rebel army was the proper place for such fellows," said Elizabeth. "No true British officer
would be guilty of such a deed!"

"Probably not! It required exceptional courage!"

Peyton knew, as well as any, that the British were brave enough; but he was in mood for sharp
retort.

"That is not the reason," said Elizabeth, coldly, refusing to show wrath. "Your enemies hold
such acts as yours in detestation."

"I am not serving in this war for the approbation of my enemies."

At this moment black Sam came in. Elizabeth handed him the letter, and said:

"You are to take my horse Cato, and ride with this message to the British barrier at King's
Bridge. It is for the officer in command there. When the sentries challenge you, show this,
and say it is of the greatest consequence and must be delivered at once."

"Yes, Miss Elizabeth."

"The commander," she went on, "will probably send here a body of troops at once, to convey
this prisoner within the lines. You are to return with them. If no time is lost, and they send
mounted troops, you should be back in an hour."

Peyton could hardly repress a start.

"An hour at most, miss, if nothing stops," said the negro.

"If any officer of my acquaintance is in command," said Elizabeth, "there will be no delay.
Cuff shall let the troops in, through that hall, as soon as they arrive."

Whereupon the black man, a stalwart and courageous specimen of his race, went rapidly from
the room.

"One hour!" murmured Peyton, looking at the clock.

Molly, the maid, now reappeared, carrying carefully in one hand a cup, from which a thin steam
ascended.

"What is't now, Molly?" inquired Elizabeth, rising from her chair.

Molly blushed and was much confused. "Tea, ma'am, if you please! I thought, maybe, you'd allow
the gentleman--"

"Very well," said Elizabeth. "Be the good Samaritan if you like, child. His tea-drinking days
will soon be over. Come, aunt Sally, we shall be in better company elsewhere." And she returned
to the dining-room, not deigning her prisoner another look.

Miss Sally followed, but her feelings required confiding in some one, and before she went she
whispered to the embarrassed maid, "Oh, Molly, to think so sweet a young gentleman should be
completely wasted!"

Molly heaved a sigh, and then approached the young gentleman himself, with whom she was now
alone, saving the presence of the slumbering Valentine.

"So your name is Molly? And you've brought me tea this time?"

"Yes, sir,--if you please, sir." She took up the bowl from the chair and placed the cup in
its stead. "I put sugar in this, sir, but if you'd rather--"

"I'd rather have it just as you've made it, Molly," he said, in a singularly gentle, unsteady
tone. He raised the cup, and sipped. "Delicious, Molly!--Hah! Your mistress thinks my tea-drinking
days will soon be over."

"I'm very sorry, sir."

"So am I." He held the cup in his left hand, supporting his upright body with his right arm,
and looked rather at vacancy than at the maid. "Never to drink tea again," he said, "or wine
or spirits, for that matter! To close your eyes on this fine world! Never again to ride after
the hounds, or sing, or laugh, or chuck a pretty girl under the chin!"

And here, having set down the cup, he chucked Molly herself under the chin, pretending a gaiety
he did not feel.

"Never again," he went on, "to lead a charge against the enemies of our liberty; not to live
to see this fight out, the King's regiments driven from the land, the States take their place
among the free nations of the world! By God, Molly, I don't want to die yet!"

It was not the fear of death, it was the love of life, and what life might have in reserve,
that moved him; and it now asserted itself in him with a force tenfold greater than ever before.
Death,--or, rather, the ceasing of life,--as he viewed it now, when he was like to meet it
without company, with prescribed preliminaries, in an ignominious mode, was a far other thing
than as viewed in the exaltation of battle, when a man chances it hot-headed, uplifted, thrilled,
in gallant comradeship, to his own fate rendered careless by a sense of his nothingness in
comparison with the whole vast drama. Moreover, in going blithely to possible death in open
fight, one accomplishes something for his cause; not so, going unwillingly to certain death
on an enemy's gallows. It was, too, an exasperating thought that he should die to gratify the
vengeful whim of an insolent Tory girl.

"Will it really come to that?" asked Molly, in a frightened tone.

"As surely as I fall into British hands!"

Peyton remembered the case of General Charles Lee, whose resignation of half-pay had not been
acknowledged; who was, when captured by the British, long in danger of hanging, and who was
finally rated as an ordinary war prisoner only for Washington's threat to retaliate on five
Hessian field officers. If a major-general, whose desertion, even if admitted, was from half-pay
only, would have been hanged without ceremony but for General Howe's fear of a "law scrape,"
and had been saved from shipment to England for trial, only by the King's fear that Washington's
retaliation would disaffect the Hessian allies, for what could a mere captain look, who had
come over from the enemy in action, and whose punishment would entail no official retaliation?

"And your mistress expects a troop of British soldiers here in an hour to take me! Damn it,
if I could only walk!" And he looked rapidly around the room, in a kind of distraction, as
if seeking some means of escape. Realizing the futility of this, he sighed dismally, and drank
the remainder of the tea.

"You couldn't get away from the house, sir," said Molly. "Williams is watching outside."

"I'd take a chance if I could only run!" Peyton muttered. He had no fear that Molly would betray
him. "If there were some hiding-place I might crawl to! But the troops would search every cranny
about the house." He turned to Molly suddenly, seeing, in his desperate state and his lack
of time, but one hope. "I wonder, could Williams be bribed to spirit me away?"

Molly's manner underwent a slight chill.

"Oh, no," said she. "He'd die before he'd disobey Miss Elizabeth. We all would, sir. I'm very
sorry, indeed, sir." Whereupon, taking up the empty bowl and teacup, she hastened from the room.

Peyton sat listening to the clock-ticks. He moved his right leg so that the foot rested on
the floor, then tried to move the left one after it, using his hand to guide it. With great
pains and greater pain, he finally got the left foot beside the right. He then undertook to
stand, but the effort cost him such physical agony as could not be borne for any length of
time. He fell back with a groan to the sofa, convinced that the wounded leg was not only, for
the time, useless itself, but also an impediment to whatever service the other leg might have
rendered alone. But he remained sitting up, his right foot on the floor.

Suddenly there was a raucous sound from old Mr. Valentine. He had at last begun to snore. But
this infliction brought its own remedy, for when his jaws opened wider his tobacco pipe fell
from his mouth and struck his folded hands. He awoke with a start, and blinked wonderingly
at Peyton, whose face, turned towards the old man, still wore the look of disapproval evoked
by the momentary snoring.

"Still here, eh?" piped Mr. Valentine. "I dreamt you were being hanged to the fireplace, like
a pig to be smoked. I was quite upset over it! Such a fine young gentleman, and one of Harry
Lee's officers, too!"

And the old man shook his head deploringly.

"Then why don't you help me out of this?" demanded Peyton, whose impulse was for grasping at
straws, for he thought of black Sam urging Cato through the wind towards King's Bridge at a gallop.

"It ain't possible," said Valentine, phlegmatically.

"If it were, would you?" asked Harry, a spark of hope igniting from the appearance that the
old man was, at least, not antagonistic to him.

"Why, yes," began the octogenarian, placidly.

Harry's heart bounded.

"If," the old man went on, "I could without lending aid to the King's enemies. But you see
I couldn't. I won't lend aid to neither side's enemies.[7] I don't want to die afore my time."
And he gazed complacently at the fire.

Peyton knew the hopeless immovability of selfish old age.

"God!" he muttered, in despair. "Is there no one I can turn to?"

"There's none within hearing would dare go against the orders of Miss Elizabeth," said Mr.
Valentine.

"Miss Elizabeth evidently rules with a firm hand," said Peyton, bitterly. "Her word--" He stopped
suddenly, as if struck by a new thought. "If I could but move her! If I could make her change
her mind!"

"You couldn't. No one ever could, and as for a rebel soldier--"

"She has a heart of iron, that girl!" broke in Peyton. "The cruelty of a savage!"

Mr. Valentine took on a sincerely deprecating look. "Oh, you mustn't abuse Miss Elizabeth,"
said he. "It ain't cruelty, it's only proper pride. And she isn't hard. She has the kindest
heart,--to those she's fond of."

"To those she's fond of," repeated Harry, mechanically.

"Yes," said the old man; "her people, her horses, her dogs and cats, and even her servants
and slaves."

"Tender creature, who has a heart for a dog and not for a man!"

The old man's loyalty to three generations of Philipses made him a stubborn defender, and he
answered:

"She'd have no less a heart for a man if she loved him."

"If she loved him!" echoed Peyton, and began to think.

"Ay, and a thousand times more heart, loving him as a woman loves a man." Mr. Valentine spoke
knowingly, as one acquainted by enviable experience with the measure of such love.

"As a woman loves a man!" repeated Peyton. Suddenly he turned to Valentine. "Tell me, does
she love any man so, now?" Peyton did not know the relation in which Elizabeth and Major Colden
stood to each other.

"I can't say she loves one," replied Valentine, judicially, "though--"

But Peyton had heard enough.

"By heaven, I'll try it!" he cried. "Such miracles have happened! And I have almost an hour!"

Old Valentine blinked at him, with stupid lack of perception. "What is it, sir?"

"I shall try it!" was Peyton's unenlightening answer. "There's one chance. And you can help me!"

"The devil I can!" replied Valentine, rising from his chair in some annoyance. "I won't lend
aid, I tell you!"

"It won't be 'lending aid.' All I beg is that you ask Miss Elizabeth to see me alone at once,--and
that you'll forget all I've said to you. Don't stand staring! For Christ's sake, go and ask
her to come in! Don't you know? Only an hour,--less than that, now!"

"But she mayn't come here for the asking," objected the old man, somewhat dazed by Peyton's
petulance.

"She must come here!" cried Harry. "Induce her, beg her, entice her! Tell her I have a last
request to make of my jailer,--no, excite her curiosity; tell her I have a confession to make,
a plot to disclose,--anything! In heaven's name, go and send her here!"

It was easier to comply with so light a request than to remain recipient of such torrent-like
importunity. "I'll try, sir," said the peace-loving old man, "but I have no hope," and he hobbled
from the room. He left the door open as he went, and Harry, tortured by impatience, heard him
shuffling over the hall floor to the dining-room.

Peyton's mind was in a whirl. He glanced at the clock. These were his thoughts:

"Fifty minutes! To make a woman love me! A proud woman, vain and wilful, who hates our cause,
who detests me! To make her love me! How shall I begin? Keep your wits now, Harry, my son,--'tis
for your life! How to begin? Why doesn't she come? Damn the clock, how loud it ticks! I feel
each tick. No, 'tis my heart I feel. My God, will she not come? And the time is going--"

"Well, sir, what is it?"

He looked from the clock to the doorway, where stood Elizabeth.

CHAPTER VII.

THE FLIGHT OF THE MINUTES.

The silence of her entrance was from her having, a few minutes earlier, exchanged her riding-boots
for satin slippers.

"I--I thank you for coming, madam," said Peyton, feeling the necessity of a prompt reply to
her imperious look of inquiry, yet without a practicable idea in his head. "I had--that is--a
request to make."

He was trembling violently, not from fear, but from that kind of agitation which often precedes
the undertaking of a critical task, as when a suppliant awaits an important interview, or an
actor assumes for the first time a new part.

"Mr. Valentine said a confession," said Elizabeth, holding him in a coldly resentful gaze.

"Why, yes, a confession," said he, hopelessly.

"A plot to disclose," she added, with sharp impatience. "What is it?"

"You shall hear," he began, in gloomy desperation, without the faintest knowledge of how he
should finish. "I--ah--it is this--" His wandering glance fell on the table and the writing
materials she had left there. "I wish to write a letter--a last letter--to a friend." The vague
general outline of a project arose in his mind.

Elizabeth was inclined to be as laconic as implacable. "Write it," said she. "There are pen
and ink."

"But I can't write in this position," said Peyton, quickly, lest she might leave the room.
"I fear I can't even hold a pen. Will you not write for me?"

"I? Secretary to a horse-thieving rebel!"

"It is a last request, madam. A last request is sacred,--even an enemy's."

"I will send in some one to write for you." And she turned to go.

"But this letter will contain secrets."

"Secrets?" The very word is a charm to a woman. Elizabeth's curiosity was touched but slightly,
yet sufficiently to stay her steps for the moment.

"Ay," said Peyton, lowering his tone and speaking quickly, "secrets not for every ear. Secrets
of the heart, madam,--secrets so delicate that, to convey them truly, I need the aid of more
than common tact and understanding."

He watched her eagerly, and tried to repress the signs of his anxiety.

Elizabeth considered for a moment, then went to the table and sat down by it.

"But," said she, regarding him with angry suspicion, "the confession,--the plot?"

"Why, madam," said he, his heart hammering forcefully, "do you think I may communicate them
to you directly? The letter shall relate them, too, and if the person who holds the pen for
me pays heed to the letter's contents, is it my fault?"

"I understand," said the woman, entrapped, and she dipped the quill into the ink.

"The letter," began Peyton, slowly, hesitating for ideas, and glancing at the clock, yet not
retaining a sense of where the hands were, "is to Mr. Bryan Fairfax--"

"What?" she interrupted. "Kinsman to Lord Fairfax, of Virginia?"

"There's but one Mr. Bryan Fairfax," said Peyton, acquiring confidence from his preliminary
expedient to overcome prejudice, "and, though he's on the side of King George in feeling, yet
he's my friend,--a circumstance that should convince even you I'm not scum o' the earth, rebel
though you call me. He's the friend of Washington, too."

"Poh! Who is your Washington? My aunt Mary rejected him, and married his rival in this very room!"

"And a good thing Washington didn't marry her!" said Peyton, gallantly. "She'd have tried to
turn him Tory, and the ladies of this family are not to be resisted."

"Go on with your letter," said Elizabeth, chillingly.

"'Mr. Bryan Fairfax,'" dictated Peyton, steadying his voice with an effort, "'Towlston Hall,
Fairfax County, Virginia. My dear Fairfax: If ever these reach you, 'twill be from out a captivity
destined, probably, to end soon in that which all dread, yet to which all must come; a captivity,
nevertheless, sweetened by the divinest presence that ever bore the name of woman--'"

Elizabeth stopped writing, and looked up, with an astonishment so all-possessing that it left
no room even for indignation.

Peyton, his eyes astray in the preoccupation of composition, did not notice her look, but,
as if moved by enthusiasm, rose on his right leg and stood, his hands placed on the back of
the light chair by the sofa, the chair's front being turned from him. He went on, with an affectation
of repressed rapture: "''Twere worth even death to be for a short hour the prisoner of so superb--'"

"Sir, what are you saying?" And Elizabeth dropped the pen, and stood up, regarding him with
freezing resentment.

"My thoughts, madam," said he, humbly, meeting her gaze.

"How dare you jest with me?" said she.

"Jest? Does a man jest in the face of his own death?" Nevertheless, France is for the aesthetic rejuvenation of Germany in eighteenth
century the condition. Lessing opposed Voltaire poetics, but the courage to all its critical
exploits gave him only the broad basis of the Enlightenment, Voltaire placed over the entire
continent. The ingenious defiance in Goethe and his contemporaries without the immediately
preceding battle of the critical spirit of France, in a positivist world solidified air and
light managed to be inconceivable. For a historian Dahlmann as it is now certainly an unfortunate idea to
peek at ways of how the he described event could have been avoided, and peaceful archaeologists,
writers and poets such as Winckelmann, Lessing, Goethe and Schiller to estimate higher than historical
Men like Voltaire and Rousseau. After the measure of the fate of the world and part of the story
European humanity in large measure, is the only Voltaire infinitely more important as all of
these four Germans together, and it would feel like a real hard for a historian be to describe
his influence.

Material source, formation and absorption.

Goethe did not like if you asked him where he had taken the material for his poems, if you wanted
to speak to come into the mysterious workshop where they originated. So he also told how he
came to the poem, our underlying plot. Nevertheless, He added later in truth and fiction, in
his explanation of resin travel in winter, etc. even the veil which shrouded the origin of many of
his poems, before the eyes of Curious moved away. Also Hermann and Dorothea later, the source
with probability been discovered in an incident, who in 1732 with the expulsion of Protestants from
Salzburg occurred. After early as 1809 in the morning paper that it observed someone had in
1827, where rumen appeared new history of this emigration, each reader the resemblance is a minor
incident and told the tale of Hermann and Dorothea fall in the eyes. Drawn is the same originally
from some of the Salzburg emigration acting and simultaneous with the event journals. One of
them, or perhaps a new print in any newspaper or entertainment page has fallen into the hands of
Goethe be. We give the passage in question from a small pamphlet of 1732, the been a source
of other reports seems to be out and the track: The charity Gera against the Saltzburg emigrants
Tues short and true story, the same as in Counts of Reuss-Gera Plauischen residence arrived.
It says (after the impression in a paper by Yxem to woselbst the other three relations in comparative
Collection in addition to interesting comments are):

In old mill, a town in Oettingen, had an even more refined and wealthy citizens a son, whom he
often angemahnet to marry him but can not move it. As Now pass the Saltzburg emigrants by this
Staedtgen, is found among them a person who likes this man, he grasps in his heart dabey the
circuit when would take it to marry the same; inquired dahero where other Saltzburg after this
Maedge performance and family, and receives the reply that it would be good, honest People would
behave at any time and probably would, but by their parents to the religion sake, divorced and had
those left behind. Then this man goeth to his And father reported him because he is so often
admonished to veneration, he would have nunmehro read a person if he would allow to take only
those of the father. As Now the father will like to know who they Sey, he says it, it would
be a Saltzburgerin that liked him and where he wanted to not let him do that he would marry
never. The father Scares about this and it will convince him, he lets some of his friends
and a Ruffe preacher, about the son to give their mediation to other Gedancken; but all in
vain. Therefore, the preacher finally gemeinet, there could God his strange have destiny from
the fact that it sowol the Son, and the emigrant be to the best could, after which they finally
give their consent, and make it to the son in his favor. This goeth immediately to his Saltzburgerin
and asks her how she liked here in the land? she replies: Mr. Gantz well. He transplanted further:
if she wanted to serve his father WOL bey? She says, even happy, if he would accept her, she gedencke
him faithfully and diligently serve, and it erzehlet out all their skills as they feed the cows,
Melck the cooling, the field order to make hay and the like could do. What they nimmet the son
with him präsentiret and his father. This Maedge asks whether she liked for his son, and she
wanted to marry him? But she, knowing nothing of this matter my sake, that they wanted vexiren
them and responds: Hey, we should not fool them just before his father, his son would have a maid
required, and if he wanted them, they intended to serve him faithfully and well for their bread
. Purchase But as the father and son to persevere and his earnest desire for bezeiget her, she Expound:
if it because Solte Being serious, it would be very well satisfied and they keep him Wolte how
her eyes in his head. reacheth Since then the son married her a pledge, greiffet it in the
bosom and says, you must give him a meal but also WOL-treasurer; which they him Beutelgen überreichet,
which is found in 200 ducats.

Compare this with the story built on Goethe's poem, so does the whole Difference of mere fact and
prosaic incident with a born-again of the imagination ideal story
out.

The poet had with the raw materials after him all the randomness stripped to make a duplicate procedure:
he had to breathe into him a soul, an idea and design of this life from the point form, and work out
in great detail individual . Let It was a family event, a hike to confused in a small town which was
entered into marriage, which was present in the story: the family, presentation of the Family
and the prevailing middle class and by tradition always generating new spirit immediate morality, contrasting
it with the turmoil of historical struggles This was therefore the idea of ​​the poem, after which
all other parts of the same now serving taught. To complete the family, the mother was necessary,
which is missing in the story; therein mentioned several friends pulled together the poet
of Ueberschaulichkeit due in two; with father, mother, son, two friends house and was the daughter
of additions to human The family circle complete. All these figures received the type of pure humanity
and the special sphere, whose representatives they were, while the citizen and his son only real
Individuals were with all the caprice and chance of finite existence, but both were them on all sides
and plastically embodied certain individuals, while the prose source only generally described
the persons with whom that incident had occurred. The innkeeper, the pastor, the pharmacist representing
the three main characters every small town. That the girl the young man had passed a dowry of two
hundred ducats, remained as an impure Appendage of reality away. The so transformed in the great
fabric was motivated in all directions, by recovery in the individual moved close by time, location
and circumstances as currently be brought to our imagination. All this has made the poet and how much
to was one of the richness of creative acts in all simplicity this revival of the substance required,
a glance at the source. With a fixed image Cape, where the trains anywhere from the inspiration
of the imagination as from the conscious experience of art led inspection Aged be, he has designed
the plan logical, certainly carried out, recorded at each point, persons characterized peculiar
yet generalized to ideal types that Locality intended as individual that we know how our father's
house, the time finally chosen so happy that middle class family and just at that particular
moment of the most intimate Warmth of life appear penetrated. The fact was one of Salzburg
Religionszwistigkeit lost, relatively trivial matter: the poet was away and sat the French Revolution
in its place, by far the mighty comfortable private existence shook and the moving, the heterogeneous
tuned mind of the poet disruptive Impressions he had just brought back to the freedom of aesthetic
contemplation. At the same time now had the Thuringian town a town on the Rhine and then the
whole World of customs and the local judge in the individual himself.

Goethe believed to have made to the materials a particularly lucky find. He writes to Henry Meyer,
the object itself is extremely happy, a subject, as seen in his Life is not twice, as in general to
uphold the objects of rare art works be found, as you might think, so even the old stable only in
a certain Circular motion. to examine the latter remark would lead us too far, we only remember
to Friedrich Vischer's witty word, the determination of the substance was changing the secret
talks to leave between chance and genius, the instinct to have the
artist's divining at the chance his ground.

The idea for Hermann and Dorothea Goethe had carried around with him for several years, As Schiller
wrote to Korner. Thus it was with this poem, like most of the other Poetry of Goethe: he wears
long, they will slowly mature, a certain softness holds him to take the pain and the work associated
with the replacement; him also the secret inner treasure so dearly, that he dismisses him reluctantly
to the outside world. Thus, many conceptions of Goethe's completely lost, because their birth never
came; others remained fragment design, in others, the moment of actual
suppression too late, the poet's age was beyond.

An old idea was as the bride of Corinth, which was built around the same time and from their fellow
characters, the poet reluctantly retired. Some things he left, Schiller. The moment of execution
was at Hermann Dorothea and a very happy. With no one had been out on the plan-hergesprochen
and such as in Wilhelm Meister, that is no inner doubts, no annoying reflection, the velocity
the production as it possessed young Goethe in years, was returned. The execution Schiller wrote
to Korner that happened under my eyes as it is with some incomprehensible Ease and speed walked
in front of him, so he was nine days in a row every Day and a half hundred hexameters wrote.
Schiller had this is incomprehensible, because Schiller, not so favored by nature, by the beauty
and perfection of existence is not so uninhibited and divinely serene delighting all its products
with an earnest will and laboriously had to wrest wrest the nature and course of which the traces
are still visible remained. The execution was the way in the autumn of 1796 partly in Weimar and
Jena, some in the lovely mountain town of Ilmenau. Voss's Luise, the poem had not "caused, but recently
awakened ": both poems are a far cry different way, as we see later, and it is ridiculous to compare
them.

Goethe himself was very pleased with the poem, which is always a good sign: it was the process of alienation
that is never taken place. He loved the poem aloud what He was never without tears of emotion.
The first time it happened to him, too, that the public satisfied at the outset was that a joyful
echo answered him, as he otherwise Always consult his people gradually, and always take only one
generation had. His philistine prosaic enemies, the Prussian school with their limited so-called
common sense still around also found fault in this poem, critics the old school participated
in a well as mine. The reviewer, for example, in the new library the fine arts and liberal
arts, says that the poem had an equally would have charged, other
than reduced, and we believe for our person, that there are as little
can be praised without limitation censured as without restriction.

So dull-minded moderation as we also present the contradictions, the religious and political,
with everyday heads Who find it think themselves very wise. The poem, he continues, lies in
the passage of epic and mimic species: Nonsense!

Goethe sent his epic a little elegiac poem titled after Hermann and Dorothea which is found
in the lyrical poetry and what he is like a previous speaker on his own, his Audience, his work
speaks. Nevertheless, in all the beautiful poems and prosaic just Individual treatment triggered
by a very poetic. A touch of human and natural Simplicity of life, a train touching confidentiality
pervades these words, you must poem read after you read Hermann and Dorothea, also to the amiable
poet himself, his house to see his person is brought near. He complains about coming age, and
asks the fate of only two things to the continued favor with the muse and a silent and happy domestic
circle, both will get him the youth and do not go out the hilarity . Let Heller flame the fire in
the fireplace, that is keeping the wife and the boy playing in the the rice throwing. The wine
was lacking in the goblet, the friends may come and to friendly Talks
to settle and hear the poet's latest work.

In a very poignant and heartfelt As he himself speaks of this, his favorite child, the idyllic and
ideal character indicated it in these words:

Germans themselves I lead you into the quiet room, Where close to the human nature of man or educates.

The
fact that war and revolution with the background that simply touching idyll is, in the following
verses indicated, then the poet says:

Have I lured you in the eye tears and joy in the soul Singing floated, come, oppress me warmly
to his heart!

Also interesting are the literary allusions in the poems and the way in which the poet and literary
criticism to dissolve in the grace of elegiac poetry understand. So happy he fact that Friedrich
August Wolf to a poet Homer into several rhapsodists has, as one was too big and dropped his courage:

Only
the health of the man who finally by the name of Homer Liberating
us boldly calls us into the full path!

    After all, who dared to fight the gods and who with the One?
      But Home Ride to be, just as the last, is beautiful.

Later, however, Goethe thought differently.

    Also because of its Luise Voss gets an all-too bountiful Praise:

We
      accompany the poet's mind, his Luise Quickly appreciate the friend,
to delight us combined.

Both poets, Schiller and Goethe, Voss overestimated the poems and to read Schiller Expressions in
his naive and sentimental poetry, where he and Greek naive Ghost
in the Luise place so we can understand not, as Schiller's otherwise
penetrating Judgement Here are shows so bribed.

    Even in this poem is one angry, just behind the Homer Schoolmaster
      of Eutin with the work of his rough fingers mentioned
    something to see. Voss as an Kranz gets, so be on the other
      hand dismissed the detractors, the Goethe for his elegies and epigrams,
because of the rich and prickly tone reproached.

He appeals to his Roman predecessors and said quite rightly, he had just the spirit of antiquity and
taken out from the dust of the old schoolroom in the life:

So that
would be crimes that once inspired me Propertius, Martial that also
to me, joined by the rogue?

    I do not the old behind me was to guard the school,
      That she likes me to Lazio followed in life?

And with regard to the new way to enjoy the love and poetry to express:

I abhor the hypocrisy poor mask?

So the whole poem is warm, personal, an amiable confession: it introduces us in the intimate
circle of Goethe's house in the sanctuary of his beautiful mind and knows about all this the
glory of poetry, the ancient majesty and mildness to spread. Schiller writes: Your own elegy
makes a deep impression, which no reader's heart; if he has a miss,
can, and their close relationship is to a certain existence of their
another more strongly and the high beautiful mixes tranquility is
so beautiful with the passionate Color of the moment, it is comforting
to me a new experience, as the poetic spirit all the congregation
of the reality does so quickly and so happily among themselves and
by a Momentum that he gives himself, is from these bands out, so that
the common souls he can see only a hopeless despair.

    
      
    Time and place.
      

The poet puts us in a little town on the Rhine during the Revolution
War.

    It is of the great highway sideways in a happy obscurity, because
of the displaced says the landlord that they

By the fortunate angle
This fertile valley, and its curvatures hike.

And in another place:

Already, the new Chausseebau Hard decided that connects us to the main road.

Especially in this still remote, not to the complete isolation of barbaric goes to domestic
morality could develop and get good people. Our Town is situated on the Rhine River just where
in wine-bearing, fertile, much more populous Area, the customs are human and the blood is
lighter and happier.

The father wants Once, his son Hermann should be something in the
world and umthun

See, at least, Strasbourg and Frankfurt And the
friendly man's home, and equally clear is built.

And in a speech before the priest comes Strasbourg again:

Because
we were used to steer the car in Strasbourg, When I accompanied the
young Baron then, daily Rolled the car passed by me, by the echoing
Thor Dusty roads to far out to the meadows and Linden Through the
middle of crowds of people, living with a walk the day.

                              
    

In that region of the poet himself had his home, there were his early
years gone by: in Frankfurt, he was born in Strasbourg, he had spent
two years, caused by his love affair Friederike of Sesenheim through
acquaintance with Herder and the literary revolution become in his
heart to the content most of his life were.

                              There are the roots his poetry.
    Those who enter from the north of the Main in Germany, which is at
the full Life and the naive joy of the people held that he was in
Goethe's home and youth air breathing: his songs here were conceived
and born, where the poet's soul from umklang Early on in the concrete
and graceful vernacular that Hans-Sachs tables tone that in its Works
so very homely talks to us and which we smile with such deep emotion;
here he was in full participation in life and in the fullness of view
which it afforded, a condom against the stupid and stubborn pedantry
of the school, here at last in the element lighter customs at the
border of France and human light establish and dissolved again and
again the bonds of love, as in the coarser Low German tribe, and the
English, where only the two poles of the same vile prudery and prostitution
know, so at ease in the manner of men would never have been possible.

All seals Goethe's only later rebated flower of his Main and Rhine stay and we must , Assert
that even Hermann and Dorothea not only on that scene plays, but in its essence has flowed
from there. Children's feelings and impressions of the lively old poet Representation of people
and places. He was born in the local bourgeoisie, and remained used it internally for all aristocratic
refinement.

                We need our little town think in one of the
    Querthäler of the Rhine, it is probably built of timber and a wall
and a dry moat.

The town has a busy, prosperous Population full of joy, curiosity
and activity, it is gewerbsam because

Some factories can be as diligent
and many industry

and operated the residents near the city's business
and viticulture and agriculture.

    On the market is the new green painted house of the merchant,
    the rich man, with windows großgetäfelten and white
    stucco in green fields, for who it does to the merchant, the

in
    his capacity The way still knows where to have the best?

What
    also is apparent that the windows of other houses of those little
hexagonal are associated with lead discs.

On market lies the pharmacy to the Angels and the Inn of the Golden Lion, owned by the father of
our Hermann, both of which were once after the great fire that had destroyed the town twenty years ago, the
most beautiful on the market, but are now obscured by the house of the merchant. So is the golden
Angel Michael, who called the pharmacy the pharmacist browned by the time all over. At the Inn
of the golden lion encounter double houses, barns and stables; them closes the large garden with
apple and pear trees and plantings of cabbage and extends to the city wall, up to a bower of
honeysuckles. There once was the ancestor of our lion's host, the worthy mayor, may break
out especial favor a little door through the wall to to avoid the long detour through the gate.
We also went through the gate and crossed the dry ditch, we got to the rising vineyard which
a covered porch on untrimmed plates hinanführte; grew on both sides of large white and reddish-blue
Grapes, not for wine, but for dessert, and the other mountain covered with sticks smaller grapes,
from which comes the noble wine. They called at the height of the vineyard, it was a talkative
echo from the towers of the city back. A door led there on the wide golden corn field that covered
the broad back of the hill and the narrow one on a Rain Grass paced to the pear tree, the
above-described the boundary of the fields that the Host to the golden lion belonged. We did
not know who planted that tree. He was far and nowhere to be seen in the area, its fruits were
famous, were happy in their shade, the reapers of the meal and rested the shepherds with their
flock. Banks of high grass and Stone surrounded his tribe. Two of the sweetest and most touching
scenes of the poem play under this tree and you can be proud of him, well, what Cicero, the
famous plane tree of Plato, which occurs at the beginning of the Phaedrus, praising says it more
by showing of philosophers than by the source at their feet prospered. Pursued one of the tree
the path continues, we soon saw the tower of a village and saw the houses and surrounding Gardens
a short distance.

    There was a wide, green lawn covered Anger, the old Linden shaded,
farmers and nearby cities, a pleasure resort.

 Old Valentine, who visited the house every day,
the weather being cold and sometimes cloudy, but without rain, called at the sick chamber now
and then, and filled it with tobacco smoke, homely philosophy, and rustic reminiscence. Harry
had no other visitors. During these five days he saw not Elizabeth or Miss Sally, save from
his window twice or thrice, at which times they were walking on the terrace. In daytime, when
no artificial light was in the room to betray to some possible outsider the presence of a guest,
he had the shutters opened of one of the two south windows and of one of the two west ones.
Often he reclined near a window, pleasing his eyes with the view. Westward lay the terrace,
the wide river, the leafy, cliffs, and fair rolling country beyond. His eye could take in also
the deer paddock, which the hand of war had robbed of its inmates, and the great orchard northward
overlooking the river. Through the south window he could see the little branch road and boat-landing,
the old stone mill, the winding Neperan and its broad mill-pond, and the sloping, ravine-cut,
wooded stretch of country, between the post-road on the left and the deep-set Hudson on the
right. The spire of St. John's Church, among the yew-trees, with the few edifices grouped near
it, broke gratefully the deserted aspect of things, at the left. The spacious scene, so richly
filled by nature, had in its loneliness and repose a singular sweetness. Rarely was any one
abroad. Only when the Hessians or Loyalist dragoons patrolled the post-road, or when some British
sloop-of-war showed its white sails far down the river, was there sign of human life and conflict.
The deserted look of things was in harmony with the spirit of a book with which Harry sweetened
the long hours of his recovery. It was a book that Elizabeth had sent up for his amusement,
called "The Man of Feeling," and there was something in the opening picture of the venerable
mansion, with its air of melancholy, its languid stillness, its "single crow, perched on an
old tree by the side of the gate," and its young lady passing between the trees with a book
in her hand, that harmonized with his own sequestered state. He liked the tale better than
the same author's later novel, "The Man of the World," which he had read a few years before.
Every day he inquired about his hostess's health, and sent his compliments and thanks. He was
glad she did not visit him in person, for such a visit might involve an allusion to their last
previous interview, and he did not know in what manner he should make or treat such allusion.
He felt it would be an awkward matter to get out of the situation of pretended adorer, and
he was for putting that awkward matter off till the last possible moment.

It was necessary for him to think of his return to the army. Duty and inclination required
he should make that return as soon as could be. His first impulse had been to send word of
his whereabouts and condition. But as Elizabeth had not offered a messenger, he was loath to
ask for one. Moreover, the messenger might be intercepted by the enemy's patrols and induced
by fear to betray the message. Then, too, even if the messenger should reach the American lines
uncaught, a consequent attempt to convey a wounded man from the manor hall to the camp might
attract the attention of the vigilant patrols, and risk not only Harry's own recapture, but
also the loss of other men. Decidedly, the best course was to await the healing of his wound,
and then to make his way alone, under cover of night, to the army. He knew that, whatever might
occur, it was now Elizabeth's interest to protect him, for should she give him up, the disclosure
that she had formerly shielded him would render her liable to suspicion and ridicule. He felt,
too, from the manifestations he had seen of her will and of her ingenuity, that she was quite
able to protect him. So he rested in security in the quiet old chamber, dreading only the task
of taking back his love-making. Of that task, the difficulty would depend on Elizabeth's own
conduct, which he could not foresee, and that in turn on her state of heart, which he did not
exactly divine. He knew only that she had, in that critical moment of the troops' arrival,
felt for him a tenderness that betokened love. Whether that feeling had flourished or declined,
he could not, during the five days when they did not meet, be aware.

It had not declined. She had gone on idealizing the confident rebel captain all the while.
The fact that he was of the enemy added piquancy to the sentiments his image aroused. It lent,
too, an additional poetic interest to the idea of their love. Was not Romeo of the enemies
of Juliet's house? The fact of her being now his protector, by its oppositeness to the conventional
situation, gave to their relation the charm of novelty, and also gratified her natural love
of independence and domination. Yet that very love, in a woman, may afford its owner keen delight
by receiving quick and confident opposition and conquest from a man, and such Elizabeth's had
received from Peyton, both in the matter of the horse and in that of his successful wooing.
But the greater her softness for him, the greater was her delicacy regarding him, and the more
in conformity with the strictest propriety must be her conduct towards him. Her pride demanded
this tribute of her love, in compensation for the latter's immense exactions on the former
in the sudden yielding to his wooing. Moreover, she would not appear in anything short of perfection
in his eyes. She would not make her company cheap to him. If she had been a quick conquest,
up to the point of her first token of submission, she would be all the slower in the subsequent
stages, so that the complete yielding should be no easier than ought to be that of one valued
as she would have him value her. All this she felt rather than thought, and she acted on it
punctiliously.

She did not confide in her aunt, though that lady watched her closely and had her suspicions.
Yet there was apparent so little warrant for these suspicions, save the protection of the rebel
in itself, that Miss Sally often imagined Elizabeth had other reasons, reasons of policy, for
the sudden change of intention that had resulted in that protection. Elizabeth's conduct was
always so mystifying to everybody! And when this thought possessed Miss Sally, she underwent
a pleasing agitation, which she in turn kept secret, and which attended the hope that perhaps
the handsome captain might not be averse to her conversation. She had both read and observed
that the taste of youth sometimes was for ripeness. She might atone, in a measure, for Elizabeth's
disdain. She would have liked to visit him daily, with condolence and comfortings, but she
could not do so without previous sanction of the mistress of the house, which sanction Elizabeth
briefly but very peremptorily refused. Miss Sally thought it a cruelty that the prisoner should
be deprived of what consolation her society might afford, and dwelt on this opinion until she
became convinced he was actually pining for her presence. This made her poutish and reproachfully
silent to Elizabeth, and sighful and whimsical to herself. The slightly strained feeling that
arose between aunt and niece was quite acceptable to Elizabeth, as it gave her freedom for
her own dreams, and prohibited any occasion for an expression of feelings or opinions of her
own as to the captain. But Miss Sally's symptoms were observed by old Mr. Valentine, who, inferring
their cause, underwent much unrest on account of them, became snappish and sarcastic towards
the lady, watchful both of her and of Peyton, and moody towards the others in the house. It
was the old man's disquietude regarding the state of Miss Sally's affections that brought him
to the house every day. For one brief while he considered the advisability of transferring
his attentions back from Miss Sally to the widow Babcock, who had possessed them first, but,
when he tarried in the parsonage, his fears as to what might be going on in the manor-house
made his stay in the former intolerable, and led him irresistibly to the latter.

Meanwhile the wounded guest, so unconscious of the states of mind caused by him in the household,
was the evoker of flutters in yet another female breast. The girl, Molly, had read toilsomely
through "Pamela," and saw no reason why an equally attractive housemaid should not aspire to
an equally high destiny on this side of the ocean. But, often as she artfully contrived that
the black boy should forget some part of the guest's dinner, and timely as she planned her
own visits with the missing portion, she found the officer heedless of her smiles, engrossed
sometimes in his meal, sometimes in his book, sometimes in both. She conceived a loathing for
that book, more than once resisted a temptation to make way with it, and, having one day stolen
a look into it, thenceforth abominated the poor young lady of it, with all the undying bitterness
of an unpreferred rival.

Though Elizabeth and her aunt found each other reticent, they yet passed their time together,
breakfasting early, then visiting the widow Babcock or some tenant, dining at noon, spending
the early afternoon, the one at her book or embroidery, the other in a siesta before the fireplace,
supping early, then preparing for the night by a brisk walk in the garden, or on the terrace,
or to the orchard and back. Elizabeth had Williams provided with instructions as to his conduct
in the event of a visit from King's troops, and, to make Peyton's security still less uncertain,
she confined her walks to the immediate vicinity. The house itself was kept in a pretence of
being closed, the shutters of the parlor being skilfully adjusted to admit light, and yet,
from the road, appear fast.

Thus Elizabeth, finding enjoyment in the very look and atmosphere of the old house, fulfilled
quietly the purpose of her capricious visit, and at the same time cherished a dreamy pleasure
such as she had not thought of finding in that visit.

On the fifth day after Peyton's arrival, Williams announced that the captain would venture
down-stairs on the morrow. The next morning Elizabeth waited in the east parlor to receive
him. Whatever inward excitement she underwent, she was on the surface serene. She was dressed
in her simplest, having purposely avoided any appearance of desiring to appear at her best.
Her aunt, who stood with her, on the other side of the fireplace, was perceptibly flustered,
being got up for the occasion, with ribbons in evidence and smiles ready for production on
the instant. When the west door opened, and the awaited hero entered, pale but well groomed,
using his cane in such fashion that he could carry himself erectly, Elizabeth greeted him with
formal courtesy. Though her manner had the repose necessary to conceal her sweet agitation,
an observant person might have noticed a deference, a kind of meekness, that was new in her
demeanor towards men. Peyton, whose mien (though not his feeling) was a reflex of her own,
was relieved at this appearance of indifference, and hoped it would continue. His mind being
on this, the stately curtsey and profuse smirks of Miss Sally were quite lost on him.

The three breakfasted together in the dining-room, a large and cheerful apartment whose front
windows, looking on the lawn, were the middle features of the eastern facade of the house.
The mass of decorative woodwork, and the fireplace in the north side of the room, added to
its impression of comfort as well as to its beauty. Conversation at the breakfast was ceremonious
and on the most indifferent subjects, despite the attempts of Miss Sally, who would have monopolized
Peyton's attention, to inject a little cordial levity. There,
the wife of the Supreme as minister's daughter spent her happy childhood.

Further down are the school and some houses, and then is left on the way still a little house
all alone. Before that there is also a small garden area with a few roses and a few cloves
and a few Resedastoeckchen, but in addition are beds of chicory and spinach planted, surrounded
by a low hedge of Johannisbeerstraeuchern. Everything is there always to see just fine and no weeds.
Then the road goes downhill the whole long Slope down to the large
road that leads away from the Aare river into the country.

This whole hillside was long in winter the most glorious Slide travel that far and wide was
found. Ten minutes because you could not sit on the sled without to descend. Because it was
the house of the captain at once from the first, steep sales right
gained momentum, the slide went forward without tuition down to Aare
the road.

This unique railway carriage was also Lebensglueck a large group of children from, all of which
only opens when the old Schulstubentuer to herausstuerzten their slide pulled from the pile,
they were in the front court, and with no time for carriage travel, ran where the hours flew,
we did not know how.

Because the bottom of the mountain was always so quick to and the ascent was thought so eagerly
to the next album Take that one quickly above was.

So broke always in great terror of the night was the children far too early, because this was the time
when almost all had to go home. Since then usually followed a fairly even tumultuous end, as
soon as they wanted to go again and again and then only a single time and so everything had to still
go in great haste, the sitting up and depart and the return of the hill. There was also a law established
been, that no one should go down, while the other went up, but after
the other should all leave each other and all go back, so not crowded,
and Schlitt Enver windings could arise. "They'll
see you through the window. Into the closet,--the closet!" She motioned imperatively towards
the pair of doors immediately beside him, west of the fireplace. Hearing the horses' footfalls
near at hand, and perceiving, with her, that he would not have time to walk safely across the
parlor to the hall, he opened one of the doors indicated by her, and stepped into the closet.

In the instant before he closed the door after him, he noticed the stairs descending backward
from the right side of the closet. He foresaw that the British officers would come into the
parlor. If they should make a long stay, he might have to change his position during their
presence. He might thus cause sufficient sound to attract attention. He would be in better
case further away. Therefore, using his stick and feeling the route with his hand, he made
his way down the steps to a landing, turned to the right, descended more steps, and found himself
in a dark cellar. He had no sooner reached the last step than a burst of hearty greetings from
above informed him the officers were in the parlor.

This part of the cellar being damp, he set out in search of a more comfortable spot wherein
to bestow himself the necessary while. Groping his way, and travelling with great labor, he
at last came into a kind of corridor formed between two rolls of piled-up barrels. He proceeded
along this passage until it was blocked by a barrel on the ground. On this he sat down, deciding
it as good a staying-place as he might find. Leaning back, he discovered with his head what
seemed to be a thick wooden partition close to the barrel. Changing his position, he bumped
his head against an iron something that lay horizontally against the partition, and so violent
was this collision that the iron something was moved from its place, a fact which he noted
on the instant but immediately forgot in the sharpness of his pain.

Having at last made himself comfortable, he sat waiting in the darkness, thinking to let some
time pass before returning to the closet stairway. An hour or more had gone by, when he heard
a door open, which he knew must be at the head of some other stairway to the cellar, and a
jocund voice cry: "Damme, we'll be our own tapsters! Give me the candle, Mr. Williams, and
if my nose doesn't pull me to the barrel in one minute, may it never whiff spirits again!"
A moment later, quick footfalls sounded on the stairs, then candle-light disturbed the blackness,
and Williams was heard saying, "This way, gentlemen, if you insist. The barrel is on the ground,
straight ahead." Whereupon Peyton saw two merry young Englishmen enter the very passage at
whose end he sat, one bearing the candle, both followed by the steward, who carried a spigot
and a huge jug.

Harry instantly divined the cause of this intrusion. The servants were busy preparing refreshments
for the officers, and, in a spirit of gaiety, these two had volunteered to help Williams fetch
the liquor which he, not knowing Harry's whereabouts, was about to draw from the barrel on
which Harry sat.

It was not Elizabeth who could save him from discovery now.

The officers came groping towards him up the narrow passage.

Before the candle-light reached him, he rose and got behind the barrel, there being barely
room for his legs between it and the partition. He had, in dressing for the day, put on his
scabbard and his broken sword. He now took his stick in his left hand, and drew his sword with
his right. He set his teeth hard together, thought of nothing at all, or rather of everything
at once, and waited.

"Hear the rats," said one of the Englishmen. It was Peyton's stealthy movement he had heard.

"Ay, sir, there's often a terrible scampering of 'em," said Williams.

"Maybe I can pink a rat or two," said the officer without the candle, and drew his sword. Harry
braced himself rapidly against the woodwork at his back. The candle-light touched the barrel.

At that instant Harry felt the woodwork give way behind him, and fell on his back on the ground.

"What's that?" cried the officer with the candle, standing still.

"Tis the scampering of the rats, of course," said the other.

Harry had apprehended, by this time, that the supposed wooden partition was in reality a door
in the cellar wall. He now pushed it shut with his foot, remaining outside of it, then rose,
and, feeling about him, discovered that his present place was in a narrow arched passage that
ran, from the door in the cellar wall, he knew not how far. Recalling the bumping of his head,
he inferred now that the iron something was a bolt, and that his blow had forced it from its
too large socket in the stone wall.

He proceeded onward in the dark passage for some distance, then stopped to listen. No sound
coming from the door he had closed, he decided that the officers were satisfied the noise had
been of the rats' making. He sheathed his broken sword, having retained that and his stick
in his fall, and went forward, hoping to find a habitable place of waiting. Soon the passage
widened into a kind of subterranean room, one side of which admitted light. Going to this side,
Harry stopped short at the verge of a well, on whose circumference the subterranean chamber
abutted. The light came from the well's top, which was about ten feet above the low roof of
the underground room, the passage from the cellar being on a descent. In this artificial cave
were wooden chests, casks, and covered earthen vessels, these contents proclaiming the place
a secret storage-room designed for use in siege or in military occupation. Harry waited here
a while that seemed half a day, then returned through the passage to the door, intending to
return to the cellar. He listened at the door, found all quiet beyond, and made to push open
the door. It would not move. From the feel of the resistance, he perceived that the bolt had
been pushed home again--as indeed it had, by the steward, who had noticed it while tapping
the barrel, and had imputed its being drawn to some former carelessness of his own.

Peyton, finding himself thus barred into the subterranean regions, was in a quandary. Any alarm
he might attempt, by shouting or pounding, might not be heard, or, if heard, might reach some
tarrying British. In due time, Elizabeth would doubtless have him looked for in the closet
and then in the cellar, but, on his not being found there, would suppose he had left the cellar
by one of the other stairways. Thus he could little hope to be sought for in his prison. Williams
might at any time have occasion to visit the secret storeroom, but, on the other hand, he might
not have such occasion for weeks. Harry groped back to the cave, and sought some way of escape
by the well, but found none.

He then examined the cave more closely, and came finally on another passage than that by which
he had entered. He followed this for what seemed an interminable length. At last, it closed
up in front of him. He tested the barrier of raw earth with his hands, felt a great round stone
projecting therefrom, pushed this stone in vain, then clasped it with both arms and pulled.
It gave, and presently fell to the ground at his feet, leaving an aperture two feet across,
which let in light. He crawled the short length of this, and breathed the open air in a small
thicket on the sloping bank of the Hudson.[8] He crept to the thicket's edge, and saw, in the
sunset light, the river before him; on the river, a British war-vessel; on the vessel, some
naval officers, one of whom was looking, with languid preoccupation, straight at the thicket
from which Harry gazed.

CHAPTER IX.

THE CONFESSION.

"What d'ye spy, Tom?" called out another officer on the deck, to the one whose attitude most
interested Harry.

"I thought I made out some kind of craft steering through the bushes yonder," was the answer.

"I see nothing."

"Neither do I, now. 'Twasn't human craft, anyhow, so it doesn't signify," and the officers
looked elsewhere.

Harry lay low in the thicket, awaiting the departure of the vessel or the arrival of darkness.
On the deck there was no sign of weighing anchor. As night came, the vessel's lights were slung.
The sky was partly clear in the west, and stars appeared in that direction, but the east was
overcast, so that the rising moon was hid. The atmosphere grew colder.

When Harry could make out nothing of the vessel on the dark water, save the lights that glowed
like low-placed stars, he crawled from the bushes and up the bank to the terrace. He then rose
and proceeded, with the aid of his stick, aching from having so long maintained a cramped position,
and from the suddenly increased cold. Before him, as he continued to ascend, rose the house,
darkness outlined against darkness. No sound came from it, no window was lighted. This meant
that the British officers had left, for their presence would have been marked by plenitude
of light and by noise of merriment. Harry stopped on the terrace, and stood in doubt how to
proceed. What had been thought of his disappearance? Where would he be supposed to have gone?
Had provision been made for his possible return? Perhaps he should find a guiding light in
some window on the other side of the house; perhaps a servant remained alert for his knock
on the door. His only course was to investigate, unless he would undergo a night of much discomfort.

As he was about to approach the house, he was checked by a sight so vaguely outlined that it
might be rather of his imagination than of reality, and which added a momentary shiver of a
keener sort than he already underwent from the weather. A dark cloaked and hooded figure stood
by the balustrade that ran along the roof-top. As Peyton looked, his hand involuntarily clasping
his sword-hilt, and the stories of the ghosts that haunted this old mansion shot through his
mind, the figure seemed to descend through the very roof, as a stage ghost is lowered through
a trap. He continued to stare at the spot where it had stood, but nothing reappeared against
the backing of black cloud. Wondering much, Harry presently went on towards the house, turned
the southwest corner, and skirted the south front as far as to the little porch in its middle.
Intending to reconnoitre all sides of the house before he should try one of the doors, he was
passing on, after a glance at the south door lost in the blacker shadows of the porch, when
suddenly the fan-window over the door seemed to glow dimly with a wavering light. He placed
his hand on one of the Grecian pillars of the porch, and watched. A moment later the door softly
opened. A figure appeared, beyond the threshold, bearing a candle. The figure wore a cloak
with a hood, but the hood was down.

"All is safe," whispered a low voice. "The officers went hours ago. I knew you must have escaped
from the house, and were hiding somewhere. I saw you a minute ago from the roof gallery."

Peyton having entered, Elizabeth swiftly closed and locked the door behind him, handed him
the candle with a low "Good night," and fled silently, ghostlike, up the stairs, disappearing
quickly in the darkness.

Harry made his way to his own room, as in a kind of dream. She herself had waited and watched
for him! This, then, was the effect wrought in the proudest, most disdainful young creature
of her sex, by that feeling which he had, by telling and acting a lie, awakened in her. The
revelation set him thinking. How long might such a feeling last? What would be its effect on
her after his departure? He had read, and heard, and seen, that, when these feelings were left
to pine away slowly, the people possessing them pined also. And this was the return he was
about to give his most hospitable hostess, the woman who had saved his life! Yet what was to
be done? His life belonged to his country, his chosen career was war; he could not alter completely
his destiny to save a woman some pining. After all, she would get over it; yet it would make
of her another woman, embitter her, change entirely the complexion of the world to her, and
her own attitude towards it. He tried to comfort himself with the thought of her engagement
to Colden, of which he had not learned until after the mischief had been done. But he recalled
her manner towards Colden, and a remark of old Mr. Valentine's, whence he knew that the engagement
was not, on her side, a love one, and was not inviolable. Yet it would be a crime to a woman
of her pride, of her power of loving, to allow the deceit, his pretence of love, to go as far
as marriage. A disclosure would come in time, and would bring her a bitter awakening. The falsehood,
natural if not excusable in its circumstances, and broached without thought of ultimate consequence,
must be stopped at once. He must leave her presence immediately, but, before going, must declare
the truth. She must not be allowed to waste another day of her life on an illusion. Aside from
the effect on her heart, of the continuance of the delusion, it would doubtless affect her
outward circumstances, by leading her to break her engagement with Colden. An immediate discovery
of the truth, moreover, by creating such a revulsion of feeling as would make her hate him,
would leave her heart in a state for speedy healing. This disclosure would be a devilishly
unpleasant thing to make, but a soldier and a gentleman must meet unpleasant duties unflinchingly.

He lay a long time awake, disturbed by thoughts of the task before him. When he did sleep,
it was to dream that the task was in progress, then that it was finished but had to be begun
anew, then that countless obstacles arose in succession to hinder him in it. Dawn found him
little refreshed in mind, but none the worse in body. He found, on arising, that he could walk
without aid from the stick, and he required no help in dressing himself. Looking towards the
river, he saw the British vessel heading for New York. But that sight gave him little comfort,
thanks to the ordeal before him, in contemplating which he neglected to put on his sword and
scabbard, and so descended to breakfast without them.

That meal offered no opportunity for the disclosure, the aunt being present throughout. Immediately
after breakfast, the two ladies went for their customary walk. While they were breasting the
wind, between two rows of box in the garden, Miss Sally spoke of Major Colden's intention to
return for Elizabeth at the end of a week, and said, "'Twill be a week this evening since you
arrived. Is he to come for you to-day or to-morrow?"

"I don't know," said Elizabeth, shortly.

"But, my dear, you haven't prepared--"

"I sha'n't go back to-day, that is certain. If Colden comes before to-morrow, he can wait for
me,--or I may send him back without me, and stay as long as I wish."

"But he will meet Captain Peyton--"

"It can be easily arranged to keep him from knowing Captain Peyton is here. I shall look to that."

Miss Sally sighed at the futility of her inquisitorial fishing. Not knowing Elizabeth's reason
for saving the rebel captain, she had once or twice thought that the girl, in some inscrutable
whim, intended to deliver him up, after all. She had tried frequently to fathom her niece's
purposes, but had never got any satisfaction.

"I suppose," she went on, desperately, "if you go back to town, you will leave the captain
in Williams's charge."

"If I go back before the captain leaves," said Elizabeth, thereby dashing her amiable aunt's
secretly cherished hope of affording the wounded officer the pleasure of her own unalloyed society.

Elizabeth really did not know what she would do. Her actions, on Colden's return, would depend
on the prior actions of the captain. No one had spoken to Peyton of her intention to leave
after a week's stay. She had thought such an announcement to him from her might seem to imply
a hint that it was time he should resume his wooing. That he would resume it, in due course,
she took for granted. Measuring his supposed feelings by her own real ones, she assumed that
her loveless betrothal to another would not deter Peyton's further courtship. She believed
he had divined the nature of that betrothal. Nor would he be hindered by the prospect of their
being parted some while by the war. Engagements were broken, wars did not last forever, those
who loved each other found ways to meet. So he would surely speak, before their parting, of
what, since it filled her heart, must of course fill his. But she would show no forwardness
in the matter. She therefore avoided him till dinner-time.

At the table he abruptly announced that, as duty required he should rejoin the army at the
first moment possible, and as he now felt capable of making the journey, he would depart that
night.

Miss Sally hid her startled emotions behind a glass of madeira, into which she coughed, chokingly.
Molly, the maid, stopped short in her passage from the kitchen door to the table, and nearly
dropped the pudding she was carrying. Elizabeth concealed her feelings, and told herself that
his declaration must soon be forthcoming. She left it to him to contrive the necessary private
interview.

After dinner, he sat with the ladies before the fire in the east parlor, awaiting his opportunity
with much hidden perturbation. Elizabeth feigned to read. At last, habit prevailing, her aunt
fell asleep. Peyton hummed and hemmed, looked into the fire, made two or three strenuous swallows
of nothing, and opened his mouth to speak. At that instant old Mr. Valentine came in, newly
arrived from the Hill, and "whew"-ing at the cold. Peyton felt like one for whom a brief reprieve
had been sent by heaven.

All afternoon Mr. Valentine chattered of weather and news and old times. Peyton's feeling of
relief was short-lasting; it was supplanted by a mighty regret that he had not been permitted
to get the thing over. No second opportunity came of itself, nor could Peyton, who found his
ingenuity for once quite paralyzed, force one. Supper was announced, and was partaken of by
Harry, in fidgety abstraction; by Elizabeth, in expectant but outwardly placid silence; by
Miss Sally, in futile smiling attempts to make something out of her last conversational chances
with the handsome officer; and by Mr. Valentine, in sedulous attention to his appetite, which
still had the vigor of youth.

Almost as soon as the ladies had gone from the dining-room, Peyton rose and left the octogenarian
in sole possession. In the parlor Harry found no one but Molly, who was lighting the candles.

"What, Molly?" said he, feeling more and more nervous, and thinking to retain, by constant
use of his voice, a good command of it for the dreaded interview. "The ladies not here? They
left Mr. Valentine and me at the supper-table."

"They are walking in the garden, sir. Miss Elizabeth likes to take the air every evening."

"'Tis a chill air she takes this evening, I'm thinking," he said, standing before the fire
and holding out his hands over the crackling logs.

"A chill night for your journey," replied Molly. "I should think you'd wait for day, to travel."

Peyton, unobservant of the wistful sigh by which the maid's speech was accompanied, replied,
"Nay, for me, 'tis safest travelling at night. I must go through dangerous country to reach
our lines."

"It mayn't be as cold to-morrow night," persisted Molly.

"My wound is well enough for me to go now."

"'Twill be better still to-morrow."

But Peyton, deep in his own preoccupation, neither deduced aught from the drift of her remarks
nor saw the tender glances which attended them. While he was making some insignificant answer,
the maid, in moving the candelabrum on the spinet, accidentally brushed therefrom his hat,
which had been lying on it. She picked it up, in great confusion, and asked his pardon.

"'Twas my fault in laying it there," said he, receiving it from her. "I'm careless with my
things. I make no doubt, since I've been here, I've more than once given your mistress cause
to wish me elsewhere."

"La, sir," said Molly, "I don't think--any one would wish you elsewhere!" Whereupon she left
the room, abashed at her own audacity.

"The devil!" thought Peyton. "I should feel better if some one did wish me elsewhere."

As he continued gazing into the fire, and his task loomed more and more disagreeably before
him, he suddenly bethought him that Elizabeth, in taking her evening walk, showed no disposition
for a private meeting. Dwelling on that one circumstance, he thought for awhile he might have
been wrong in supposing she loved him. But then the previous night's incident recurred to his
mind. Nothing short of love could have induced such solicitude. But, then, as she sought no
last interview, might he not be warranted in going away and leaving the disclosure to come
gradually, implied by the absence of further word from him? Yet, she might be purposely avoiding
the appearance of seeking an interview. The reasons calling for a prompt confession came back
to him. Father and son feel different point in the election of a girl: the Ground of
a conflict is defined and we suspect that even in the heart of Hermann with the beloved; that
you stand with the wishes of the violent father does not match; by itself fall told our thoughts
on that girl in the Hermann level, and that in the economy Experienced was the girl and everything
she did caring judge certainly surprising. Maybe it would be the emotions that the sight of her excited,
their conversation in him not even clearly Consciousness, or he would have been hidden still
and anxious, if not the simple Note the pharmacist and it is knüpfende call his inner state
quickly would have brought to fruition, and drew the conditions in sharp lighting. Here is
imagine no change, no link in the chain. You can use the story of the mother of the Brande
and her to tie this tragedy be regarded marriage as an episode, so even this epic need not lacking,
in fact, the whole passage out of the Bottom of the current situation and grants from a small,
very sweet and true Image for themselves, but nevertheless it is essential in the progress
of the conversation and is in the next inner relationship to the present. The events described
in this and the first song Scenes of flight and confusion on the way, remember much of what
the poet himself in the Champagne and experienced in his diary of the campaign in France, has told
us so especially the fall of the large heavily laden car and the unknown of the girl the pale
young mother's assistance.

The third song contains no other factual continuation.

We hear the continuous walking Speeches, which were aimed to develop the characters and sentiments
and lying in them Contrary to light and the possible adjustment in all directions. After a hard Offense
and the moving passion of the last song in this calms down the mood; mutual discussion moderated
the excitement of the father and the fear of the listener. The mother, after she scolded his father
for his harsh conduct, hastened to his son to him to appease.

At the beginning of the fourth song, we support the searching mother
on her way.

Here is now described the area, garden, vineyard, field, pear tree, but always in an unbiased
link with the migration of the worried look around for her son, mother. Natural image and mother care
occurs as one and unabgesondert in our perception. The depiction of nature is not the modern and sentimental,
not the Gemütsschwelgerei Werther, what with the tone of the whole poem would argue, it is not
the connoisseur of abstract landscape, but they remains the view of the unspoiled human feeling,
the happy but of nature, But this joy not even by the well-being, the value and fertility is
separated. The vineyard is beautiful, but particularly because it carries such wonderful grapes.
To Birnbaum floats the poetry of the age, the poetry also landscape, which before him under resting
walkers is spread out, but no less used for His glory, that wore so tasty fruit and the pastors
and the reaper in the hot midday provides welcome shade. to estimate only a picturesque tree
with beautiful views would be quite out of our sphere of sensation poem. The representation
of floating rather in that center, where the contrast between the purely prosaic benefits and
the false-hearted soft Natursentimentalität not yet clear is broken, it gets in that primitive,
in turn, Homeric Unit, where the beauty of nature and nature as the sphere of the farmer,
gardener, hunter, Fischer, vessels, etc come together to form an overall impression and form a feeling. Landscape
and weather, sun, plants, meadows and mountains, everything here is with the eye of creative
worker, the propertied bourgeoisie, einsammelnden, from the earth to nourish Settler and the said
nature is loved as a soil culture, as [Greek: aia biodôros] in Sophocles' Philoctetes. At the same
time we get the picture of the busy housewife who does not Step does in vain to feel in their
territories and possessions and in this sense its small, traversed by diligence earned Kingdom.
The trace of the son ever find the following, We finally turned away from him sitting under
the pear tree. He has tears in his eyes by the mother surprised him. In the following discussion
we find the main character, Hermann, close to the Heart. As if by magic itself does his being and
character before us, we hear his confessions and the real human truth of his words and resolutions,
he wins our participation and emotion. Although quite epic in long sweeping speeches, moving forward,
contains but the whole scene with masterful development the course of internal emotions that
hide her tears in solitude first, then half-betrayed, finally break forth and become the resolve,
to act, the process between the passionate Naked Soul of the Son and youth, which finally empties
into the chest of the mother, and the first affected, then with loving concern exploratory and
finally after a successful Confession advisory maternal assistant. To the truth, with this gradually
going away Process is continued, to the certainty with which the relationship between mother
and son sets out for the moments lying in it, nor the richness of this relationship is itself
the wealth of moral and human motifs, at the moment in all its simplicity themselves with.
A son, an unhappy love painful tears in his heart, a weeping mother, the mother bends down fully
with counsel and compassion inquiring about him - this Scene itself is touching and sacred. It is sacred,
as are the Madonnas of Raphael, quote also by showing the mother and the child of the purest
human Contents we are faced with eyes. And these human touching scene is laid in a locality, surrounding
them with all the poetic charm: it is the seat pitch is lower than that Birnbaum, of out the
sorrowful longing glance is sufficient for the area in which dwells the mistress.

In the fifth song, as her mother had predicted, the consent of the father really achieved. This
is the complication resolved and apparently brought about a conclusion. Alone in a very epic manner
lies in the resolution, a new complication, a new obstacle, circumvent the power of the story has
quietly. The pharmacist has taken the proposal, but to consider only the girls and the community
in which they grew up to interview her.

The expression is again appropriate to the character of the pharmacist, it flows elsewhere
on naturally from the state of things, because you will learn, but first, who and how the is
unknown girl, but by this Council of the father's consent only makes possible ties he is the same
but to a first condition to be met and the moment at the same time accelerierende a retarding.
Moreover even this scene contains in its successive development and the play of juxtaposed
characters, the largest natural truth. To Hermann is evident in every word, that love him, the
stupid and clumsy young man, quickly has matured into a man, they sharpen his vision and his
inspired language. The Father, the lively good-natured man, after the outbreak of anger this afternoon
already internally yielding voted, because now son, mother and friends come to their emergency response;
at first he is silent amazement, and finally as one who is not a thing left to fully like, he
makes the side note, Hermanns tongue that always hammered, be it with a male solved, then,
as in shame, a long with zeal and dignity championed attitude to leave now, should he dresses
his assent to the humorous twist, he experienced, what is threatened every husband and father,
mother and friends that always the will of the Son favor, and as half angrily condemn the commitment
not to son, but to the others present, "Go and examine them and bring me my account's daughter
into the house where do not let him forget the girl, and how all of this in a similar situation
in life everywhere repeated.

After a very Homeric description of harnessing the horses, the trip down to the village. Hermann
keeps the horses in the shade of the lime and the two friends go home after inquiry from. We
accompany them in the throng of people, of which we have an epic performances of Dutch Genre
description given. After we step by step nearer the political sphere, We are finally looking
at before the terrible tragedy of the revolution and war, which satisfy all natural formations
threatens the destruction to the world of night and chaos after Principles
of reason to redesign.

Hermann's love comes back for a moment, but just to stand out in the dark now be signing the
brighter background. From the Depth of the resolution itself will drive out the ever-effective
educational force of the new family. In the confused course of the refugees in the description of the resolution
shall judge us all moral ties, disruption contrary, but, as enormous and the terrible storm of
History of the homes of private mental infamy, and always regarded the man again Foot ties,
new ties, contaminated from the new boundaries of the property and establishes solid institutions,
in he poured the contents of the mind. The revolution comes close to us, but just so anti-political
and the private anti-communist existence, the family, the property has proved itself, and from
the Create new destruction. As the symbol of humanity living in the power of nature we are Dorothea
appear, they, the fugitive, parents lots of his father's house, the groom Deprived in the war
and the confusion as a helpless girl Sly, who nevertheless, where she is also caring and female
by the Council, care and assistance in a sphere of love to up and which finally collects as a
future wife and mother in a new family, they completed their contemplation and concludes. At
the first steps that the do two friends with the crowd, they make this into a fight, the men threaten
each other, The women mix a screaming. The ugly image but is quickly pulled away from the eyes
and it follows a reconciling patriarchal scene. A long conversation between the Pastor and the
venerable Judge of the community filled the conclusion of the fifth and the beginning the sixth
song. We get a description of the course of revolution, freedom, enthusiasm, the subsequent disappointment
of the horrors of war, we hear of Dorothee's heroic Self-defense. Meanwhile, the pharmacist has
tracked down the girl and pulls the spiritual Mr away with. We look back with two through the gap
in the fence and see for the first Dorotheen. Having just gone through all the disruption of
the war, after we complete admiration and Horror of the murderous act of the Virgin ([Greek:
androktonos]) is seeing, we do not border not acting, but quiet and contemplation full of sitting
there, in her arms the newborn child, we see them as loving assistant and future mother. The
Judge shall add another, and completed by further news of the girl's mental Image we conceived
of it. Having seen and experienced by all safe now, that Herman was a happy choice after his love for her relationship
with the Fate of nations and states a deeper meaning for us and won general rush, we are impatient
with the participation of the well expectant youth, his glorious message to bring. Solo has once
again, that the voltage is hardly solved, a new preparation. Hermann's soul left in the solitude of
himself is of serious concern meanwhile been affected by concerns as they tend to torment
a loving and so anxious heart. learn That the only good friends of Dorothea would, he knew beforehand:
but it is themselves agree, too? Will it be the first to follow best is to come, ready? and
Her heart is not perhaps already failed? During a comic tale of the intermediate Pharmacist
who gives more to the certificate and their epic serenity for the present Improper torque of the
talkative man does not notice, Hermann inwardly in the manner of lovers a powerful, yet at the
same time timid and evasive decision taken. The Friends should not drive him home and bring
the parents the message he wants to be alone, Dorothea question itself and the surrounding
footpath on the pear tree by either happy with you descend to your home or sneak them back without
lonely. All the words that he here speaks, are those of a loving, between misery and happiness
back and tossed heart the same truth, depth and tenderness to bear, as in Alexis and Dora.
We float with the young man in the anticipation of sharing his sorrow, smile at the cute jokes
at the departure of friends, but moved with compassion, we see the dust rise up to Herman,
disperse and are not as he thought.

The closer we move with the opening of the seventh song, the conclusion will be the richer spent
the poetic medium, the more intimate feeling, anxious, appearance, always soulful and increase their
delicate pale colors and redden imperceptibly. The inner Heart and the external nature, the mood
of the soul and the surrounding landscape, the train of Love and softly playing accident prone all together,
meaning and significance of the image to increase and collects all the magic of imagination
to the abundance of delicate emotion, from the the bottom of a loud human relationship swells.
The song begins with an equally true as magnificent parable. As the hikers in the evening, the
sinking sun again edited and then dazzled the eye sees her floating image, where he turns the
eyes also Such was Hermann Dorothea shape before his eyes move through the field. It was the
dream love, in which the mistress of the blinded eye is everywhere, but the dream blends with
reality: Hermann awakened and is astonished and amazed again, for
Dorothea is real, it is not a dummy image, it is itself with jugs
in hand, she comes to the well paced, to draw water.

The accident led them right now to the source, in Hermann concerns of love lonely dreaming.

Coincidence!
He might be with the wonderful name of our Humboldt poem. Among the requirements an epic poem
set the pedantic theory earlier period, a so-called Machine of the miraculous: it should occur
in the epic gods and demons, and with fantastic Pry into the doings of human intervention.
Therefore, from the poet a world of gods invented, it was set allegorical personifications of
abstract ideas in motion and the course of action rather than their own inner dialectic driving
them away, but presented as the work of supernatural figures. In Virgil, the discussions and arrangements
more of the gods, a cold machinery of imitating and reflecting as a poet in view of the naive
popular belief securely fortified world. Unlike in Homer. In the Homeric era came the moral
forces that shape the lives, not as such man to consciousness, they were moved to a hereafter,
and each was a god, a actor.
 Moreover, Elizabeth gave no time for
manifestations.

"No," the girl went on. "You are right. He's able-bodied now, and might be a match for all
the servants. Besides, 'twould come out why I shielded him, and I should be the laugh o' the
town. Oh, how shall I pay him? How shall I make him feel--ah! I know! I'll give him six for
half a dozen! I'll make him love me, and then I'll cast him off and laugh at him!"

She was suddenly as jubilant at having hit on the project as if she had already accomplished it.

"Make him love you?" repeated her aunt, dubiously. Her aunt had her own reasons for doubting
the possibility of such an achievement.

"Perhaps you think I can't!" cried Elizabeth. "Wait and see! But, heavens! He's going away,--he
won't come back,--perhaps he's gone! No, there's his hat!" She ran and picked it up from the
corner of the doorway. "He won't go without his hat. He'll have to come here for it. He went
to his room for his sword. He'll be here at any moment."

And she paced the floor, holding the hat in one hand, and lapsing to the level of ordinary
femininity as far as to adjust her hair with the other.

"You'll have to make quick work of it, Elizabeth, dear," said the aunt, with gentle irony,
"if he's going to-night."

"I know, I know,--but I can't do it looking like this." She laid the hat on the table, in order
to employ both hands in the arrangement of her hair. "If I only had on my satin gown! By the
lord Harry, I have a mind--I will! When he comes in here, keep him till I return. Keep him
as if your life depended on it." She went quickly towards the door of the east hall.

"But, Elizabeth!" cried Miss Sally, appalled. "Wait! How--"

"How?" echoed Elizabeth, turning near the door. "By hook or crook! You must think of a way!
I have other things on my mind. Only keep him till I come back. If you let him go, I'll never
speak to you again! And not a word to him of what I've told you! I sha'n't be long."

"But what are you going to do?" asked the aunt, despairingly.

"Going to arm myself for conquest! To put on my war-paint!" And the girl hastened through the
doorway, crossed the hall, called Molly, and ran up-stairs to her room.

Miss Sally stood in the parlor, a prey to mingled feelings. She did not dare refuse the task
thrown on her by her imperative niece. Not only her niece's anger would be incurred by the
refusal, but also the niece's insinuations that the aunt was not sufficiently clever for the
task. However difficult, the thing must be attempted. And, which made matters worse, even if
the attempt should succeed, it would be a rewardless one to Miss Sally. If she might detain
the captain for herself, the effort would be worth making. The aunt sighed deeply, shook her
head distressfully, and then, reverting to a keen sense of Elizabeth's rage and ridicule in
the event of failure, looked wildly around for some suggestion of means to hold the officer.
Her eye alighted on the hat.

"He won't go without his hat, a night like this!" she thought. "I'll hide his hat."

She forthwith possessed herself of it, and explored the room for a hiding-place. She decided
on one of the little narrow closets in either side of the doorway to the east hall, and started
towards it, holding the hat at her right side. Before she had come within four feet of the
chosen place, she heard the door from the south hall being thrown open, and, casting a swift
glance over her left shoulder, saw the captain step across the threshold. She choked back her
sensations, and gave inward thanks that the hat was hidden from his sight by herself. Peyton
walked briskly towards the table.

Suddenly he stopped short, and turned his eyes from the table to Miss Sally, whose back was
towards him.

"Ah, Miss Williams," said he, politely but hastily, "I left my hat here somewhere."

"Indeed?" said Miss Sally, amazed at her own unconsciousness, while she tried to moderate the
beating of her heart. At the same moment, she turned and faced him, bringing the hat around
behind her so that it should remain unseen.

Peyton looked from her to the spinet, thence to the sofa, thence back to the table.

"Yes, on the table, I thought. Perhaps--" He broke off here, and went to look on the mantel.

Miss Sally, who had never thought the captain handsomer, and who smarted under the sense of
being deterred, by her niece's purpose, from employing this opportunity to fascinate him on
her own account, continued to turn so as to face him in his every change of place.

"I don't see it anywhere," she said, with childlike innocence.

Peyton searched the mantel, then looked at the chairs, and again brought his eyes to bear on
Miss Sally. She blinked once or twice, but did not quail.

"'Tis strange!" he said. "I'm sure I left it in this room."

And he went again over all the ground he had already examined. Miss Sally utilized the times
when his back was turned, in making a search of her own, the object of which was a safe place
where she could quickly deposit the hat without attracting his attention.

Peyton was doubly annoyed at this enforced delay in his departure, since Elizabeth might come
into the parlor at any time, and the meeting occur which he had, for a moment, hoped to avoid.

"Would you mind helping me look for it?" said he. "I'm in great haste to be gone. Do me the
kindness, madam, will you not?"

"Why, yes, with pleasure," she answered, thinking bitterly how transported she would be, in
other circumstances, at such an opportunity of showing her readiness to oblige him.

Her aid consisted in following him about, looking in each place where he had looked the moment
before, and keeping the sought-for object close behind her.

Suddenly he turned about, with such swiftness that she almost came into collision with him.

"It must have fallen to the floor," said he.

"Why, yes, we never thought of looking there, did we?" And she followed him through another
tour of the room, turning her averted head from side to side in pretendedly ranging the floor
with her eyes.

"I know," he said, with the elation of a new conjecture. "It must be behind something!"

Miss Sally gasped, but in an instant recovered herself sufficiently to say:

"Of course. It surely must be--behind something."

Harry went and looked behind the spinet, then examined the small spaces between other objects
and the wall. This search was longer than any he had made before, as some of the pieces of
furniture had to be moved slightly out of position.

Miss Sally felt her proximity to the object of this search becoming unendurable. She therefore
profited by Peyton's present occupation to conduct pretended endeavors towards the closet west
of the fireplace. She noiselessly opened one of the narrow doors, quickly tossed the hat inside,
closed the door, and turned with ineffable relief towards Peyton.

To her consternation she found him looking at her.

"What are you doing there?" he asked.

"Why,--looking in this closet," she stammered, guiltily.

"Oh, no, it couldn't be in there," said Peyton, lightly. "But, yes. One of the servants might
have laid it on the shelf." And he made for the closet.

"Oh, no!"

Miss Sally stood against the closet doors and held out her hands to ward him off.

"No harm to look," said he, passing around her and putting his hand on the door.

Miss Sally felt that, by remaining in the position of a physical obstacle to his opening the
closet, she would betray all. Acting on the inspiration of the instant, she ran to the centre
of the room, and cried:

"Oh, come away! Come here!" and essayed a well-meant, but feeble and abortive, scream.

"What's the matter?" asked Peyton, astonished.

"Oh, I'm going to faint!" she said, feigning a sinkiness of the knees and a floppiness of the head.

"Oh, pray don't faint!" cried Peyton, running to support her. "I haven't time. Let me call
some one. Let me help you to the sofa."

By this time he held her in his arms, and was thinking her another sort of burden than Tom
Jones found Sophia, or Clarissa was to Roderick Random.

The lady shrank with becoming and genuine modesty from the contact, gently repelled him with
her hands, saying, "No, I'm better now,--but come," and took him by the arm to lead him further
from the fatal closet.

But Peyton immediately released his arm.

"Ah, thank you for not fainting!" he said, with complete sincerity, and stalked directly back
to the closet. Before she could think of a new device, he had opened the door, beheld the hat,
and seized it in triumph. "By George, I was right! I bid you farewell, Miss Williams!" He very
civilly saluted her with the hat, and turned towards the west door of the parlor.

Must, then, all her previous ingenuity be wasted? After having so far exerted herself, must
she suffer the ignominious consequences of failure?

She ran to intercept him. Desperation gave her speed, and she reached the west door before
he did. She closed it with a bang, and stood with her back against it. "No, no!" she cried.
"You mustn't!"

"Mustn't what?" asked Peyton, surprised as much by her distracted eyes, panting nostrils, and
heaving bosom, as by her act itself.

"Mustn't go out this way. Mustn't open this door," she answered, wildly.

He scrutinized her features, as if to test a sudden suspicion of madness. In a moment he threw
off this conjecture as unlikely.

"But," said he, putting forth his hand to grasp the knob of the door.

"You mustn't, I say!" she cried. "I can't help it! Don't blame me for it! Don't ask me to explain,
but you must not go out this way!"

She stood by her task now from a new motive, one that impelled more strongly than her fear
of being reproached and derided by Elizabeth. Her own self-esteem was enlisted, and she was
now determined not to incur her own reproach and derision. She perceived, too, with a sentimental
woman's sense of the dramatic, that, though denied a drama of her own in which she might figure
as heroine, here was, in another's drama, a scene entirely hers, and she was resolved to act
it out with honor. Circumstances had not favored her with a romance, but here, in another's
romance, was a chapter exclusively hers, a chapter, moreover, on whose proper termination the
very continuation of the romance depended. So she would hold that door, at any cost.

Peyton regarded her for another moment of silence.

"Oh, well," said he, at last, "I can go the other way."

And, to her dismay, he strode towards the door of the east hall. She could not possibly outrun
him thither. Her heart sank. The killing sense of failure benumbed her body. He was already
at the door,--was about to open it. At that instant he stepped back into the parlor. In through
the doorway, that he was about to traverse, came Elizabeth.

CHAPTER XI.

THE CONQUEST.

Miss Sally saw at a glance that her niece was dressed for conquest; then, with immense relief
and supreme exultation, but with a feeling of exhaustion, knowing that her work was done, she
silently left the room by the door she had guarded, closed it noiselessly behind her, and went
up-stairs to restore her worked-out energies.

Elizabeth wore a blue satin gown, the one evening dress she had, in the possibility of a candle-light
visit from the officers at the outpost, brought with her from New York. This enabled the Iliad and the Odyssey, although only a concretion of old heroic songs and
epic hymns are still have the strict context, the joint only sharpened critical eye in some places
discovered. Conversely, it is lacking in some reflected later Epics, although they are derived from
a poet, internal to the required uniformity. The Aeneid of Virgil, for example, has not the
artistic unity, and the story of Dido for example, falls out of the epic sound and is a very
tragic episode. Also Klopstock Messiah, because the poet was working on about twenty years,
very disparate in its individual parts. Just when the poem the direct product of naive people
sealed , it is in tune together, so long it was. The true epic is always watching have, as if
the people themselves set with dark instincts for self-representation is: the Individual who worked
on it, loses himself, the Nibelungenlied has herself composed, it grows up. Therefore, Jakob
Grimm says very true: there are good and bad lyrical poetry, good and bad plays, but the real
epic as opposed to only a false one. This is the lack, for example, in Virgil: he is a man of learned
poet, who in the truth the things he tells himself does not believe he is mindful of the situation
described by him World is not biased, creates by design, mimics and supports his speech with
rhetorical Flowers. Only in one respect he shows himself as a truly epic poet: namely, it also penetrates
like the whole Roman people an awareness of the glory of this nation, its god-like size, the
pride and glory of world domination. In such places is also he just an expression of his people,
the enthusiasm is not artificial and the words flow him, so he and five centuries in all schools
by the Romans celebrated the Favorite stayed.

As we see right now with the epic for the poetic image of a people and a total time This is not
to be understood as the poem should be a painting or ethnographic
an orderly account of the prevailing customs, as it is taking the
historian.

Rather, the law also calls for the epic poetry of all that the general spirit of a certain epic story
together and draw be individualized, and that is not the whole nation or even humanity, but
a given subject is the same hero. The national life is presented to us in the epic in a single
limited indeed, and it comes through a particular situation, by certain purposes and acts as a
specific individual image to view. Conflict and conflict also requires the epic, but this
conflict is very different from the dramatic. In the drama moral powers are in conflict, the
Subject that is on the point of their collision is, as a basis. Or the individual individual makes
his pathos, the passion of his inner drive the objective order of things against the same, it will
cross with his subjective purposes, of fate and the moral necessity and makes going to the tragic
experience of his finitude. In the epic world, but there is no conflict so deep, and the course
of their destiny joins the efforts of individuals not impede raises and promotes it. The epic conflict
therefore destroyed the peace of the people do not, without the harmonious development of the
nation as a whole disturbing, it produces only an invigorating exercise. A proper epic collision
therefore, the war in which the nation shall exercise their powers and accelerates growth and
development feels, except the war may not be internal, in the bosom of the people even broken
out, no Dynasty battle as in Shakespeare, no fraternal strife are for the inheritance of the throne,
because then we are on the low ground of the dramatic conflict. Also features such as the discovery
of the Portuguese at Camoens, a cruise like Tasso are a beautiful epic material: there also pile
the obstacles, the dangers only to be overcome, and the resistance of the Reality only serves at
every step, this really complete and happy to seize. On this general ground epic conflict now
enters the very individual epic event on, and in their move to epic characters. The character of
the epic hero hovers like the incident in the middle between the basic national and his individual
particularity. He is what can be anybody, what everyone is basically: this is in his late Walt
nothing else than the general livelihood, all with. His quest is not a fight, not with fate
or with the people surrounding nature. He does not transform the world and realize something still existing
in his mind, but in reality self-direction, it follows the course of things in a more external
events intertwined than by actual fact, the ever springing in the interior of the subject in
the world of objects prevails, the transformative nature for purposes of his freedom. In Epic
is not so complicated psychological gears, no hidden motive, the actions flow out of the instinct
of the whole. Told the story flows quietly past us; the external process, circumstances, coincidences,
events, that which the hero meets, not the hero himself as an inherently intentions of moving
or of disputing the motives Equilibrated personality in the epic is the essential. Then allow all
historical characters in epic and dramatic divide. The epic hero is only a Concentration of the nation
and of the time, what he wants and feels is the will and feeling of all. He is therefore always
happy, he is the favorite of fortune and the gods are with him. It carries the force of circumstances
differ from success to success, obstacles and inhibitions are own interior is open, moving in harmony,
no individual choice of a Guy rips the Fellowship with all others, and by he performs a comprehensive
work with size, this accomplishment rather the unconscious are the things themselves tragic
case of the characters, that of the pure opposite of epic are to outrage the religious harmony
has become. In ages far advanced civilization in isolation of the gifted farsighted genius;
He feels the dull mass compared to higher insight, overwhelming force in itself, forming the first
ray of the coming age, in the fight against the status quo as it falls Victims, the tenacious
habit of limitations against it faded slowly, or he overcomes the resistance rises up to the
highest luster and will force the world to his purposes. But since overtaken him for the profound
expression of the ancients the envy of the gods who are not can not tolerate that a mortal fair
with them and the control of their world government Hands snatch. By making his individual pathos
for the sole law, he disturbs the Whole complex of moral forces, which in a mutual penetration of life,
and his Power and size to one side is his weakness after the other, the broken order shall be
restored, the masses react against him and where he stood at the highest crash he most deeply,
in the moment when his plans to the success of the next, they were falling in dust. The gods
hate, love the epic hero and destroy the tragic. Prometheus is the true type of tragic hero.
Caesar, Xerxes, who in his arrogance the Hellespont flogged, Ajax, the Pallas falls into ruin, are
tragic characters were therefore chosen by the poets, from Shakespeare, Aeschylus and Sophocles.
Some who figures in world history, according as they are apprehended, the more tragic or the
epic nature, such as Napoleon. In the first stage of his life as a senior general in Italy and
Egypt, he is the epic hero, the rocker of the century and the flow of things, luck and winning
grant with, his deeds are a sunlit epic; gradually He isolated his purposes, he lost in an ever
bolder and lonely height, the objective Finite world with all terms and conditions, the nations
with their national way of thinking to him only the indifferent material, which he wants to
impress the shape of his perfect will; there just responded this real world, the move from any
individual from a focus want to be, and the disaster that is the sudden change and makes the
measured a shocking disaster. Thus, even when Alexander the Great, between Columbus a double
Considers possible: epic heroes are both in that they are only organ of the Zeitgeist; one
opens the Orient, the other the far Occident, both are of the general objective confined to
the international expansion of global consciousness taken to happy targets, in the lives of
both mixes but soon the tragic accident, the one in the bloom of Youth, the other after a string
of injuries and mishaps expires.

The last consideration, we have to pay the epic concerns, after the epic Substance known, the epic
attitude, the way the poetic treatment in the epic. This will be the simple consequence of that,
and the fact we can Homer be the pattern. As the epic falls in that early time, where with the
sentient soul in the immediate unity of the World and the will to survive even a fight with
the natural instincts, has so well the whole epic depiction of that serene peace and harmony everywhere
that untroubled be worn. Further, since the epic poet of a bygone era just told there that he
maintains, is heard only by the quiet sense of the ear and not like the drama in immediately
present, it is moving, then the proportion of a milder mood, the mood a freer and singer wins dimensional
space development of all sites and circumstances, to peaceful development and more even recognition
also of the smallest and most insignificant. In the drama is the character of people as it
illuminated from one side only, so far they namely by a predominant
passion, by a special delivery system of the whole in the tragic case
of collision involved.

The epic, however, does not have a particular point of view, it sheds light on the personality
of all sides, in all respects and all the people is with lingering detail as a totality of inclinations,
Peculiarities and interests before our mind's eye. The drama rushes restlessly through a Series
of increasingly violent discord against its objectives, from increasing to increase pushes it
to the disaster, the viewer, moves between fear and hope, in itself divided and torn from the
harmonic balance self-esteem, can not find peace as in the finite starting point, where the violent
tension dissolves in perfect sympathy and the harmony of the finished building our art reflects
the inner reconciliation. Conversely, we remain of the epic narrator continues to face in
the freedom of the mind and the all-round Integrity of our forces. Instead of the violent content
in the drama the huddle, unfolds Rather, he's whole life, the whole width of human activity and
existence with all additional conditions, In addition to all moods in uniformly bright lighting.
His friendly view of things granted even the most insignificant of remaining in the whole
and he dwells much. With divine Objectivity and impartiality are Homer every object, the largest
as the smallest his name and his rights; yielding and gentle he lifts each side adjoining
Third born, they may be important or unimportant, and quite behind the described by him World hiding
anything and he can express each in his own most shades and after his very own form and place in
the rich and varied picture insert. In the vast Scope of his intuitive mind, and in the even
heat of his participation is not excluded disturbing, unnecessary or insignificant. He tells
us not only how his heroes hate, love and struggle, but also how they create the soles and Under
the dress coat throwing, is among us all the pieces of bronze armor on the Greaves to crown
Bush the helmet, just as all the cushions and soft wool carpets of the bed, he follows the
meal in its entirety, and wash their hands heroes, they all receive equal portions allocated
to meat, which heralds the mix wine with water from the mixing kettle and pour the drink to each guest
in the smaller cup, etc Contact at the crucial moment of the battle two fighters facing each
other, already is the lance lifted, the poet still has time and humorous enough for us peace of mind with
the recent Fates of making one or the other known where he previously lived, who his mother
and his father was, indeed like his father called and where and how old he was dead. Quite rest
of this epic are Homer's dialogue, exchange talk of heroes and gods penetrated each other. They
may fight in a violent passion with one another or they may give and receive commands or bragging
compete with each other in word or fight plead in agony to rescue or research, or tell, it is always
the slow, quiet flowing river that never stops, but never pushed away with tempestuous violence.
A good example is the epic sojourn place where the nurse at the foot washing Eurycleia suddenly
their masters will recognize as a beggar, Odysseus returned from the scar on his knee. It is
the moment of highest tension: but now the poet tells in detail how Odysseus in youth come
to this scar, during a visit to Autolycus on Parnassus, the Boar hunt, the boar who taught
him to the wound, is described with great detail; occurring while the speeches are given at
length with the words: "So this scar recognized the old nurse, "again draws. Again, as Patroclus
was killed and Achilles the weapons seized, he says full of rage and destruction of zeal on
the battlefield: there take it to the Lycaon, the son of Priam, a moment was enough to the unfortunate
spoiling. But the author pushes this quiet moment to still, he tells us first, like Achilles,
once before the Lykaon on a dark night in his father's vineyard attacked; The young man cut
himself there with a sharp knife by a young fig tree rods, which rods should serve for signs,
but now there fell upon him unexpectedly, the divine son of the Peleus. But he sent the prisoners
on a ship across the sea, and sold him into well-built Lemnos. Buyer, however, was Euneus, son
of Jason. From there, he bought a friend going on, giving a lot of gold, the Eetion Imbrie, and
sent him back to Troy in the divine Arisbe. From there, secretly fleeing, he returned to his
father's house. There he was eleven Days, in the handling of his loved ones rejoicing after he
left Lemnos, but on the twelfth He struck again on the Achilles. So now we are back at the
moment as before that Involvement. But still is not the fatal blow. Achilles is puzzled by
the Lemnos sold again seen on the battlefield right now and is followed by a loud soliloquy ten
verses in which Achilles proclaims: Truly I think I killed the Trojans return from the underworld
back again, so I have this sold yet in the Holy Lemnos, but the gray sea salt can not hold him
back, and many are still against their Will in the seas around, but now I want to see whether
he, when he learned of my spear sharpness, also return from there, or whether it will subdue
the earth, which was also the strong tamed.
 If I might die, and be buried in your garden, and grow up in the shape
of a rose-bush--"

"Or a cabbage!"

"I fear you don't like that flower."

"Better come up in the form of your own Virginia tobacco."

"And be smoked by old Mr. Valentine? No, you don't like tobacco. Ah, Miss Philipse, this levity
is far from the mood of my heart!"

"Why do you indulge in it, then?"

"I? Is it I who indulge in levity?"

"Assuredly, I do not!" Oh, woman's privilege of saying unabashedly the thing which is not!

"No," said he, "for there's no levity in the coldness with which beauty views the wounds it makes."

"I'm sure one is not compelled to offer oneself to its wounds."

"No,--nor the moth to seek the flame."

"La, now you are a moth,--a moment ago, a rose-bush,--"

"And you are ten million roses, grown in the garden of heaven, and fashioned into one body
there, by some celestial Praxiteles!"

"Dear me, am I all that?"

"Ay," he said, sadly, "and no more truly conscious of what it means to be all that, than any
rose in any garden is conscious of what its beauty means!"

"Perhaps," she said, softly, feeling for a moment almost tenderness enough to abandon her purpose,
"more conscious than you think!"

"Ah! Then you are not like common beauties,--as poor and dull within as they are rich and radiant
without? You but pretend insensibility, to hide real feeling."

"I did not say so," she answered, lightly, bracing herself again to her resolution.

"But it is so, is it not?" he went on. "Your heart and mind are as roseate and delicate as
your face? You can understand my praises and my feelings? You can value such love as mine aright,
and know 'tis worthy some repayment?"

But she was not again to be duped by low-spoken, fervid words, or by wistful, glowing eyes.
She must be sure of him.

"I know,--I recall now," she said, with little apparent interest; "you spoke of love a week
ago, with no less eloquence and ardor."

"More eloquence and ardor, I dare say, for then I did not feel love. Then my tongue was not
tied by sense of a passion it could not hope to express one hundredth part of! And, even if
my tongue had gift to tell my heart, I should not dare trust myself under the sway of my feelings.
But I do love you now,--I do,--I do!"

"If now, why not before?"

"Haven't I said I've been blind to you until to-night? At first I regarded you as only an enemy
to be turned to my use in my peril. Having been fortunate in that, I gave myself to other thoughts.
But, thinking my false love had drawn true love from you, I saw I could not in honor leave
you under a false belief. But now the falsehood has become truth. A week ago, I avowed a pretended
passion, to gain my life! Now, I declare a real one, to gain your love!"

"What, you expect to take my love by storm, in reality, as you did, in appearance, a week ago?"
She had risen from the music seat, and now stood with her back against the spinet, her hands
behind her, her head turned slightly upward, facing him.

"I don't expect," said he. "I only hope."

"And what gives you reason to hope?"

"My own love for you. Love elicits love, they say."

"They say wrong, then. If that were true, there would be no unrequited lovers."

"Ay, but such love as mine,--how can it so fill me to overflowing, and not infect you?"

"Love is not an infectious disease. If it were, I should have no fear,--knowing myself love-proof."

"I can't believe that,--for a woman with no spark in herself could not light so fierce a flame
in me, by the mere meeting of our eyes."

"If it should create in me such a disturbance as you seem to undergo, I shouldn't wish it to
increase. But, I assure you, it isn't in me."

"Pray think it is. Only imagine it is there, and soon it will be."

She felt that the time was at hand to strike the blow.

"If I could be perfectly sure you spoke in earnest," she said, seeming to search his countenance
for testimony.

"In earnest!" he echoed. "Great heavens, what evidence do you want? If there is an aspect of
love I do not have, tell me, and I shall put it on."

"Yes, you are experienced in putting on the aspects of love."

"Oh, you well know I have no reason now for declaring a love I don't feel. If you could be
sure I spoke in earnest, you said,--what then? Tell me, and I shall find a way to convince
you I am in earnest."

"Convince me first."

"'Convince me,' you say. And I say, 'Be convinced.' By the Lord, never was so great a sceptic!
Is not your sense of your own charms sufficient to convince you of their effect?"

"Mere words!"

"I'll prove my love by acts, then!"

"By what acts?"

"By fighting for you or suffering for you, dying for you or living for you, as you may command."

"You can prove it thus. Say, 'Long live the King!'"

He gazed at her a moment. "No," he said.

"Say, 'Long live the King!'" She went to the door, and paused on the threshold, looking at
him, as if to give him a last opportunity.

"Long live the King--" he said.

She came back from the door.

"Of France!" he added.

"No," she cried, and dictated, "'Long live the King of Great Britain!'"

"Long live the King of Great Britain,--but not of America."

"No! 'Long live George the Third, King of Great Britain and the American colonies!'"

"Long live George the Third, King of Great Britain and--Ireland."

"'And of the American colonies.' Say it! Say it all!"

"Long live Elizabeth Philipse, queen of beauty in the United States of America!" he answered.

"You don't love me," said she, and set her mind to finding some other means by which he might
evince what she knew he would never demonstrate in the way she had demanded. And she resolved
his humiliation should be all the greater for the delay. "You don't love me."

"I do. I swear, on my knees."

"Then get on your knees!"

"I do!" He dropped on one knee.

"Both knees!"

"Both." He suited action to word.

"Bow lower."

"I touch the floor." He did so, with his forehead. "Are you convinced?"

"Yes." And she moved thoughtfully towards the door of the east hall.

"Ah! Convinced that I love you madly?" In obedience to a gesture, he remained on his knees.

"Perfectly convinced."

"Then, the reward of which you hinted?"

"Reward?"

"You said, if you could be sure I spoke in earnest. Now you admit you are sure. What then?"

She let her eyes rest on him a moment, without speaking, as he looked ardently and expectantly
up at her from his kneeling attitude, while she took in breath, and then she flung her answer
at him.

"What then? This! That you are now more contemptible and ridiculous and utterly non-existent,
to me, than you have formerly been! That, whatever I may have done which seemed in your behalf,
was partly from the strange insanity of which I have spoken, and partly from the most meaningless
caprice! That, if you remain here till to-morrow, you may see me in the arms of the man I really
love, and that he may not be as careless of the fate of a vagabond rebel as I am. And now,
Captain Crayton, or Dayton, or Peyton, or whatever you please, of somebody or other's light
horse, go or stay, as you choose; you're as welcome as any other casual passer-by, for all
the comical figure your impudence has made you cut! Learn modesty, sir, and you may fare better
in your next love-making, if you do not aim too high! And that piece of advice is the reward
I hinted at! Good night!"

And she whirled from the room, slamming behind her the mahogany door, at which Peyton stared
for some seconds, in blank amazement, too overwhelmed to speak or move or breathe or think.

But gradually he came to life, slowly rose, stood for a moment thoughtful, fashioned his brows
into a frown, drew his lips back hard, and muttered through his closed teeth:

"I'll stay and fight that man, at least!"

And he sat down by the table, to wait.

CHAPTER XII.

THE CHALLENGE.

A very few moments had elapsed, and Peyton still sat by the table, in a dogged study, when
the door from the south hall was opened slightly, and if he had looked he might have seen a
pair of eyes peeping through the aperture. But he did not look, either then or when, some seconds
later, the door opened wide and Miss Sally bobbed gracefully in.

It has been related how, after her brilliant but exhausting conduct of the important scene
assigned her, she sought repose in her room. Looking out of her window presently, she saw something,
of which she thought it advisable to inform Elizabeth. Therefore she came down-stairs. Did
she listen at the door to the last part of that notable conversation? Ungallant thought, aroint
thee! 'Tis well known women have little curiosity, and what little they have they would not,
being of Miss Sally's station in life, descend to gratify by eavesdropping. Let it be assumed,
therefore, that the much vaunted informant, feminine intuition, told Miss Sally of the end
of the interview between her niece and the captain, both as to the time of that end and as
to its nature.

She entered, tremulous with a vast idea that had blazed suddenly on her mind. Now that Elizabeth
was quite through with Peyton, now that Peyton must be low in his self-esteem for Elizabeth's
humiliation of him, and therefore likely to be grateful for consolatory attentions, Miss Sally
might resume her own hopes. But there was no time to be lost.

"Your pardon, captain," she began, sweetly, with her most flattering smile. "I am looking for
Miss Elizabeth."

"She was here awhile ago," replied Peyton, glumly, not bringing his eyes within range of the
smile. "She went that way. I trust you've recovered from your attack."

"My attack?" inquiringly, with surprise.

"The queer spell, I think Miss Philipse called it. She said you were subject to them."

"Well, how does she dare--" She checked her tongue, lest she might betray the device for his
detention. Something in his absent, careless way of associating her with a queer spell irritated
her a little for the moment, and impelled her to retaliation. "I suppose that was not the only
thing she said to you?" she added, ingenuously. There was once a very beautiful and pretty princess, who was famous everywhere, because there
were very many free her to her of morning and evening, from noon to midnight, so that often
the entire week by the Court of the horses of the candidates was
not empty.

Miss Sally's moment of resentment had passed. Now was the time to strike for herself. She thought
she had hit on a clever plan of getting around to the matter.

"Captain," said she, "you're a man of the world. I know it's presumptuous of me to ask it,
but--if you would give me a word of advice--"

Peyton did not take his look from the fire, or his thoughts from their dismal absorption. He
answered, half-unconsciously:

"Oh, certainly! Anything at all."

"You are aware, of course," she went on, with smirking, rosy confusion, "that Mr. Valentine
is a widower."

"Indeed? Oh, yes, yes, I know."

"Yes, a widower twice over."

"How sad! He must feel twice the usual amount of grief."

"Why,--I don't know exactly about that."

"The poor man has my sympathy. Doubtless he is inconsolable." Peyton scarce knew what he was
saying, or whom it was about.

"Why, no," said Miss Sally, averting her eyes, with a smiling shyness, "not altogether inconsolable.
That's just it."

"Oh, is it?" said Peyton, obliviously.

"You may have noticed that he spends a good deal of time here at present," she went on.

"A good deal of time," he repeated. "There's doubtless some strong attraction."

"Yes. Perhaps I oughtn't to say it, but there is a strong attraction. In fact, he has proposed
marriage to me, and now, as a man of the world to a woman of little experience, would you advise
me to accept him?"

And she looked at the disconsolate officer so sweetly, it seemed impossible he should do aught
but say it would be throwing herself away to bestow on an old man charms of which younger and
warmer eyes were sensible. But he answered only:

"Certainly! An excellent match!"

For a time Miss Sally was speechless, yet open-mouthed. And then, for the length of one brief
but fiery tirade, she showed herself to be her niece's aunt:

"Sir! The idea! I wouldn't have that old smoke-chimney if he were the last man on earth! I'd
have given him his congé long ago, if it hadn't been that he might propose to my friend, the
widow Babcock! I've only kept him on the string to prevent her getting him. When I want your
advice, Captain Peyton, I'll ask for it! Excuse me, I must find Elizabeth. I've news for her."

"News?" he echoed, stupidly.

"Yes. From my chamber window awhile ago I saw some one riding this way on the post-road,--Major
Colden!"

And she swept out by the same door that had closed, a few minutes before, on Elizabeth.

"Major Colden!" Peyton's teeth tightened, his eyes shot fire, his hand flew to his sword-hilt,
as he spoke the name.

He went to the window, the same window at which Elizabeth had looked out a week ago, and peered
through the panes at the night.

"Why, the ground is white," he said. "It has begun to snow."

But, through the large flakes that fell thick and swiftly among the trees, he did not yet see
any humankind approaching. His view of the branch road was, at some places, obstructed by tall
shrubbery that rose high above the palings and the hedge.

Yet through those flakes, assaulted by them in eyes and nostrils, invaded by them in ears and
neck, humankind was riding. It was, indeed, Colden that Miss Sally had seen through a fortuitous
opening, which gave, between the trees, a view of the most eminent point of the post-road southward.
He was to conduct Elizabeth home the next day, but had availed himself of his opportunity to
ride out to the manor-house that night, so as to have the few more hours in her society. He
had this time taken an escort of two privates of his own regiment, but these men were not as
well mounted as he, and, in his impatience, having seen the best their horses could do, and
having passed King's Bridge, he had ridden ahead of them, leaving them to follow to the manor-house
in their own speediest time. Thus it was that now he bore alone down from the post-road, his
horse's feet making on the new-fallen snow no other sound than a soft crunching, scarce louder
than its heavy breathing or its mouth-play on the bit, or the creak and clank of saddle, bridle,
stirrups, pistols, and scabbard. His eyes dwelt eagerly on the manor-house, where awaited him
light and warmth and wine, refuge from the pelting flakes, and, above all else, the joy-giving
presence of Elizabeth. His breast expanded, he sighed already with relief; he approached the
gate as a released soul, with admission ticket duly purchased by a deathbed repentance, might
approach the gate of heaven.

But Peyton, looking out on the white world, saw no one. He did not change his attitude when
the door reopened and Elizabeth and her aunt came into the parlor, arm in arm.

"You're sure 'twas he, aunt Sally?" Elizabeth had been saying.

"Positive. He should be here now," Miss Sally had replied.

Elizabeth cast a look of secret elation on the unheeding rebel captain, whose forehead was
still against the window-pane. She saw a possible means of his still further degradation.

Suddenly he took a quick step back from the window, impulsively renewed his grasp of his sword-hilt,
and showed a face of resolute antagonism.

Elizabeth knew from this that he had seen Colden. She gave a smile of pleasant anticipation.

But Miss Sally had relapsed into her usual timid self. She held tightly to Elizabeth's arm.

"Oh, dear!" she whispered. "Won't something happen when those two meet?"

"I hope so!" said Elizabeth, placidly.

"Why?" demanded Miss Sally, beginning to weaken at the knees.

"If Colden sends him to the ground, in our presence, that will crown the fellow's humiliation."

Five brisk knocks, in quick succession, were heard from the outside door of the east hall.

Peyton walked across the parlor, turned, and stood facing the east hall door, the greater part
of the room's length being between him and it. His hand remained on his sword. He paid no heed
to Elizabeth, she paid none to him.

"His knock!" she said, and called out through the east hall door: "'Tis Major Colden, Sam.
Show him here at once." She then stepped back from the door, to a place whence she could see
both it and Peyton. Her aunt clung to her arm all the while, and now whispered, "Oh, Elizabeth,
I fear there will be trouble!"

"If there is, it won't fall on your silly head," whispered Elizabeth, in reply.

From the hall came the sound of the drawing of bolts. Peyton did not take his eyes from the door. The summer evening, the
with cool shade, the gluten absorbs, the large rising, the sky wonderfully bright moon, The storm,
which umtürmt the setting sun, then in heavy thunder over the heads to roll of people who are changing
from red-hot sun looks, white moon light and dark Cloud shadows foreboding mixed lighting, the path
through the well-known to us lovely Locality, the tottering grain that reached the figures of wanderers
in height almost the venerable pear tree under which Hermann today cried the girl, at whose
hand he now after a few fateful hours then converts down the stairs to the leafy vineyard
- To the heart's secret, which both carry with them the sweet trepidation, based on the Youth
busy, the timidity, which in the most heart and the best hours it still closes the mouth, often
as lovely ambiguous words of the conversation, the we often take a turn, where the flower of love
in the bud open confession seems to want to blow up, Dorothea's slipping on the plates of the
vineyard, the embrace, Hermann in the fields and the heat of her heart, feel the balm of breath,
noble self-control that he shows in this moment, Dorothea's joke, which it at all internal movement
are still freedom of the mind and the custom has enough - all would this song to the crown
of the whole poem do if it was not inappropriate, in a poem as the most beautiful places of our
talk, in a poem where a soft light over all parts of its harmonious serenity spread, each individual
point Purpose of the whole and the progress of storms as powerful as the story still, the
proportion the mind is as intimate as a freelance. Once again, the random, the lover yes so
often favors or teased because they is all important and all of a sensation Handle granted,
his lovely game. Dorothy, sitting under the pear tree, sees the light Moon light the houses
and farms lie the city, especially a window in the light reflection shine: this has happened
to Hermann's window and he says it well: it is mine, saith He is, perhaps now that your there
and then, as if he had been betrayed too clearly adds He added: we are changing in the house,
which contain a double meaning of words again. Also, the Dorothea's misstep, which creates the
youth even before the engagement, the happiness of the beloved press to his heart, a game of fate,
the Cupid is even more useful with List seems to have joined.

From the sphere of feeling and love of the game sets us apart, the last song, which after Urania,
muse named the star, is, in the heights of the family. So fine again the Reflection of real life,
so rich in features, the scene is the nature of direct by listening,
so much everything is brought in by nearby confidential, it shall
still here in the final song in and with the feeling for the crowning
of our cherished relationship Persons of high sense of the poem, the
idea of ​​content to light: life and death, the cycle of age, seeds
and fruit of human life, fate and morality, the family in their permanent
basis with their immediate natural treasure dark feelings and the
history, the homes of the natural character drives crashing peoples
against peoples, and they one by one than the other tools are used
in the continuous development executive idea.

Golden words of deep truth has placed the priest, the poet in his mouth, when it exceeds death
and the transience of life twice to the philosopher and the religious pronounce:

Touching picture of death is Not as a terror to the wise and not as the end of the Pious. Those
pushing it back to life and teaches him to act; This strengthens it to future salvation in the hope
of tribulation; Two is the life of death. The father unjustly Has the sensitive boy's death
pointed in death. See you but the young man of noble ripening age Value and age of the youth,
both that of the eternal circle Enjoy life and so full of life in the end!

Thus while the pious in the death does not see the end, but continued to him the idea Life ties,
calls the idea of ​​death to the wise to take on the present, they to fill with essence and forever
to be in each moment. The transience, however, is also a perpetual renewal, of eternal ruin a perpetual
birth, so look for The youth, the value of age, he zureift unstoppable,
and the old man on the youth, in which he repeats itself, that both
are of the eternal circle without selfish regret enjoy without reproach
to the world order.

                                    The eternal rejuvenation and renewal
    of the family shown in Hermann and Dorothea's union, which as
    a father and mother of Representatives Age face. During
    the engagement scene with astonishment to find the priest Dorthea
    Finger former engagement ring and now holds Dorothea
    a speech that the idyllic family image raised in the context
    of the greater good of the spiritual world. The advice
    that the outgoing Fiance left her:
    

But then also sit lightly on the feet moving! etc

the image that he creates it by the storms of the big time:

Everything moves Now the earth once, it seems all to separate etc

- It is the voice of history itself, the quiet sacred and shocking in our Circle into calls to
these can be propelled to the summit, where man the context of the smallest Life with the
most overlooked. The good faith but that the collapse of all political Shape the sense of unyielding
strength of the family foundation and the property to be granted the foot man, this truly German feeling
and this ultimate meaning of the poem Hermann speaks from satisfactory in the concluding words.
One might be surprised that Goethe not to the prevailing sentiment
in the poem even more complete, by interwoven message of peace with
France and the safety of the Rhineland to civil allowed to come, the
more so since he himself just in time, where he worked on the poem
of Schiller writes: I also will equip the peace, and my poem wins
by a purer Unit.

    The poet's father was satisfied at the outset of happy peace hopes
to all of the festive interpret Friedenstedeum, the impending leave
to speak and in the spirit we now anticipate that Hermann's wedding
on the day of the big country festival can be mitbegangen.

As for the passage of the scene in detail, so we put the Poet at
the opening of the song to a new scene, his parents' house, where
parents and friends eagerly await the arrival of Hermann.

                                        By the description
    of impatience the mother, the long narrative of the pharmacist, the
consideration of the minister of death and life is the long scene
of two lovers against which occupied the whole last song, the balance
and symmetry is restored, according to the parents' house about a
stay the same was required.

Very skillful is the means by which the poet sweet confession of love elicits Dorothea, of whose
attitude we have not quite sure were, the way in which it evolved from the misunderstanding, it is
also a very natural, the character of both the father as Herman reasonable and provides us with yet
in the end the all girlish delicacy Dorothy, the female mates with real determination to before
his eyes. The discord that the harmonious sound of all the circumstances and characters precedes,
reached the highest level in Dorothea's speech, because she wants to go away again, but He
is on the same point of the resolution at the next beautiful as the motive for their removal yes
the secret love of Hermann. Otherwise here is the nature of truth, each expressed to admire the
word, which sympathize more than can be explained and the reader deeper take, the richer in human
and life experience it is. So, if the mother's repeated Paint the rooms of the men leaving and
re-enters and speaks from the storm and that the Moon had been obscured, and the danger of
the night and the friends blames lively, that they are separated by Hermann, and the father
angrily after the manner of men they mean: Do not make the disease worse, you see, we have waited
so itself or the cheerful words with where the father just came in. Dorothy welcomes teasingly:
Yes, I like that, my Child etc, or even those that he speaks later in the aversion to wines the
girl: So this is my last now for the highest indulgence etc

Characters.

Having in the foregoing the substantial world that opens before us, discussed have, I go on to
illuminate the individual character images that the poet on this soil, in this atmosphere presents
us and in which the general prevailing therein Spirit is individualized to summarize.

The householder, a cozy, somewhat corpulent landlord, who lives in prosperity, has not only his
guest house to the golden lion, but he is like the citizens of small towns at the same time
Farmer and he is out of the large garden and a beautiful vineyard and a wide Kornfeld. In the
house our host is a bit bossy and grumpy, to be just like home fathers . Maintain Mother, associated
for many years with him knows him but to treat and tolerate his vehement beings with equanimity. Unsurpassed
is the physiognomy of the old covenant of marriage Signed: custom links the two, their feelings
are grown old with them, so they argue each other and yet they would lose half of their own, when
one of the other would be taken from. Although they act against the son in different ways, they
are but by common ownership of an only child and often determine him with parental chatter soon
now that this girl as his bride. The old man is also been a member of the Council, has many
competent business sense to improve the management, worked to repair the buildings and Reinlichhaltung
the streets, but also with his Colleagues in the Council quarreled properly and when he came
home, had the household of the bad temper and anger brought charges. At dinner he drinks wine
according to the custom of those carrying Lands a few pints heated,
it is more talkative, but also easily provoked to anger and then talks
some violent word that him in the evening, vanished when the little
noise, again regretted.

After he is then treated again very easily and for the one, whereas
he declaimed fiercely to win.

Odious to him as many older men weeping, wailing, the many speeches of the women that bothers
him from his sleep, threatened with the chatter, or the complaining address, then it stands
up angrily and walks into his bedroom to get to bed. His consent to his son's marriage, he is
only half-joking because he in opposite case, only defiance and tears
foresees.

A certain gravitas and stately bourgeois Attitude is innate in him, he walks slowly out of
church on Sundays, so that the school children is stimulated by teasingly. His son, Hermann, he has
always to blame, as so often Fathers do if they become morose, he would have it differently
and understand its nature not, he would like to see Vätereitelkeit aspire to higher professional
and wishes him finer manners, garment teres behavior; at all he holds himself like Hermann Dorothea
tells to external and delicate manners and he boasts of himself, that he as a good landlord each
character on the stage and know to treat. He will, therefore, no peasant girl to be a daughter into
the house, it is to play the piano and the most beautiful and best People should gather together
on Sundays with him. With all these characteristics of the father is still Nuclear-like and
docile nature. The misery of the displaced touches him and he gives generously to the His
own way to alleviate suffering. So he granted the poet the epithet: the human Landlord. And
her new daughter, so her status and the poverty of his favorite wishes contrary, he nonetheless embraced
warmly, hiding the tears.

The mother is a real woman, a real bourgeois housewife. The house, the cellar, the garden are the realm
where it holds sway busy. Full concerns her son seeking, it is once through the garden and does the
same in passing some caterpillars of cabbage and provides the supports the fruit trees cope. As
a woman it is more easily agitated than the father, more mobile than this in his middle-gravity.
The tears you come, as the poet says, the leichtlich Eye. Although it is essentially the root followed,
in the thinking of the father and speaks, it has nevertheless often as wife and mother the words rapid
and violent opinions about ease with which that can be carried away in the heat. It stands as a
true mother with her Son in a lively mind alliance, this never leaves the house, he tells
her because they tend to to him when he is suffering weeps with him, guessing his thoughts, his confessions
and receives scolds the father, if that is impatient of their Hermann. She and the father remembered
vividly of Goethe's parents, because even in Goethe's house was the witty indulgent mother
often the secret ally of the brilliant son when his poetic nature with the pedantic Gravity of the
father was in opposition. Hermann Wilhelm Meister also stood with his Love inwardly, with its
theater and its artistic ideals thirst of the old merchants Master distant, but close to the mother
through trust and understanding.

Hermann the German's son shows us the nature, the German national characteristic in a masterly Individual
image embodies. Hermann is faithful and industrious, dignified and efficient. He is not allowed,
on the mind with a quick glance, the things from the depths of the soul's thoughts easy to raise
to the surface with energetic people and will instantly forcing institutions to its intent and understanding.
Presence of mind, he goes out, the Weapon of the list is denied him, the finer and more intelligent,
but often trivial and verbrausende easy pleasure of life is unknown
to him.

Hermann is not bubbling with wit and Spirit sparks, which, after a moment shone sink, going out
in ashes, his View is slow, but if it is always the truth of a pure and intimate Mind accordingly.
Hermann thinks more than he speaks, you can rely on him, both on his mind than on his word as
to the work he does. In Society he is stupid, his appearance, his clothes are a little boorish,
heartless world, people will it ridiculous and against the Savior, he is unarmed. The school
went with him Slowly, the father complained that Hermann was the lowest ever, and he could
not very volatile record to be picked up by a new wash away the feeling again, but was some
of it acquired, it was certainly his nature and his property forever. Good-natured and slow, he
was much liked by his classmates, only if its Inner self, his spirit came into play, such as
if his father, about the deliberate Response and large-flowered gown was spotted, then his anger
and blind rage, and awoke cut it to himself, for now, if a cumbersome nature as the once outraged
Hermanns is, so she throws down relentlessly as an element of all barriers in front of him. Fluid
and speak eloquently Hermann was not true: Your tongue faltered always says the father. More better
get him farm work in the fields, in vineyards, in the garden. The Stallions in the stable,
he worried himself, he has brought up her and trusted her to no other, right a rural boy, so his
friends are always the horses.

He lives in the chamber in Upstairs is early in the morning with the sun and meet a few hours sleep healthy
him. In general he is healthy, has strong nerves and a high growth. He is not sentimental consumptive
Jean Paul African hero, of longing for the stars has. Of artificial Stimuli and exotic fantasies
he knows nothing: he is the son of peaceful citizens, not for the the extensive and inclusive,
not for the government, war, science, honor is determined, but for recurring transactions of
agriculture and a dense and orderly learning Family life. Although he will again retire from
the usual living conditions and in go to war, not because it is too tight or that this fact,
the inner urge promises to breastfeed, but precisely because in his domestic life by design Opposition
has been disturbed, and because the love that Seelenbezwingerin him, too, for the moment brought
out of balance. to parade in uniform and as a soldier in front of the girls to strut, this vanity
it does not occur. At the close of the poem, he speaks a unwavering patriotism of, but only
because the recovered possession of a beloved wife it has complied with the sensation of property
generally, but now is my my than ever he exclaims, and it is the courage of the militia man,
the National Guard, who for the stock possession can also die, and when the danger has passed
rapidly to its sphere of Private acquisition returns. For all the limitations of sight and needs,
Hermann pure of mind, Immaculate Heart, full of tenderness to the parents. He is an undisturbed
Natural product and is a sure instinct leads him to its right, under which he soon realizes
and holds as his own. He has also found Dorotheen detected after a few moments and in one day,
his marriage is decided. The unwieldy and limited his being is only the outer opposite side of
the inner solidity and integrity of his mind. Also the way that expresses his love for Dorothea
is right, not to the remainder of its nature and the life circle whose product it is. Not an
ideal illusion of fantasy, the youth at the feet of the girl crashes, no sky-high exultation,
lost to death, but in quiet Chamber he felt lonely, and the garden, the field, the shops are
deserted him released; the father is old, the have multiplied, creating work for whom, and?
He lacked the wife, He longed for a life partner. In such a mood he met Dorothea and finds
rapidly that it is destined for him, warm affection binds him so strongly that he wants to
leave home if he is denied the girl, and is a sure guarantee for lasting domestic happiness. Thus
we have in Hermann love only the train of morality, the shape want to win, the quiet Tie on a
civil marriage covenant, not the fantastic overvoltage a poetic youth passion, the flame, each
consuming it around the object taken burns, the more likely it is void in this possession.

By
the group of said three persons, the family is complete. connect to you two Family friends,
the priest and the pharmacist in the town. Both are simple to form the Superior middle-class
family, the pastor of the more idealistic, pharmacists from the realistic Page. But be recognized
by the priest as an educated through scientific studies a real spirit of superiority, while
the pharmacist's profession adequately between the scholars and technicians hovering in the middle,
occupying half a position and more the expression of higher wisdom is, as it really has.

The pastor is the nominee of theology after the completion of university studies, as wont to happen,
tutor of a young Baron's been and gone with him to Strasbourg, where the pupil should study likely.
As a tutor he has the world in higher Circles know learned something he understands, for example,
the urbane art a car from the box to guide; he is not at all limited and peasant village priest.
It represents the citizens living close to the small town look the other mind, the deeper insight.
Of course He knows his subject, the sacred history, but he is well versed in the profane. His
views carry the stamp of conciliatory and mild amusement, by human Tolerance is the pride of
the city, in everything he says, expresses noble wisdom from, he always has the higher and reasonable,
points to the internal order that the blind Bustle of the world lies at the bottom, he finds
out all the good and suggests the moral as the only Appropriate and of Fortune. No rigor, no religious
bigotry, clericalism is not in him. Even as a charity he is clear: in the village among the
displaced He has quickly given away his silver money and even handed the judge a piece of
gold one, to have it come through this to the poor. The poet calls him a young man, closer the man.

The
character of the pharmacist is very finely drawn by the poet, so that it is difficult is to grasp
this simple and yet so logical structure.

Her original plan, she felt, might have to be altered by reason of Colden's having obtruded
his hand into the game, a possibility she had not, in roughly sketching that plan, taken into
account. It was in order to have the guidance of circumstance, that she now put herself in
the way of hearing, unseen, what might pass between the two men. Meanwhile, through the snow-storm,
Colden's two soldiers, who had indeed tarried at the tavern for the heating up of their interiors,
were blasphemously urging their sleepy horses towards the manor-house.

In the parlor, the two enemies were facing each other, Peyton on his chair, his tied wrists
behind him, Colden standing at some distance from him, holding the broken sword. As soon as
they were alone, Peyton uttered another one-syllabled laugh, and said:

"The hospitality of this house beats my recollection. One is always coming back to it."

"You'll not come back the next time you leave it!" said Major Colden, his eyes glittering with
gratified rancor.

"And when shall that time be?" asked Peyton, airily.

"As soon as two of my men arrive, whom I outrode on my way hither to-night. They attended me
out of New York. I shall be generous and give them over to you, to attend you into New York."

"Thanks for the escort!"

"'Tis the only kind you rebels ever have, when you enter New York," sneered the major.

"We shall enter it with an escort of our own choosing some day! And a sorry day that for you
Tories and refugees, my dear gentleman!"

"But if that day ever comes, you'll have been rotting underground a long time,--and thanks
to me, don't forget that!"

"Thanks to her, you coward!" cried Peyton. "'Twas she that sent her servants after me! You
didn't dare try taking me, alone!"

"Bah!" said Colden, hotly, "I might have pistolled you here to-night"--and he placed his hand
on the fire-arm in his belt--"but for the presence of the ladies!"

"Was it the ladies' presence," retorted Peyton, contemptuously, "or the fact that you're a
devilish bad shot?"

Neither man heard the door moved farther open, or saw Elizabeth step through the aperture to
the inner side of the threshold, where she stopped and watched. Peyton's back was towards her,
and Colden's rage at the last words was too intense to permit his eyes to rove from its object.

"Damn you!" cried the major. "I'd show you how bad a shot I am, but that I'd rather wait and
see you on the gallows!"

"Will she come to see me there, I wonder?" said Peyton, half thoughtfully. "She ought to, for
it's her work sends me there, not yours! 'Twill not be your revenge when they string me up,
my jolly friend!"

Taunted beyond all self-control, the Tory yelled:

"Not mine, eh? Then I'll have mine now, you dog!"

With that, he strode forward and struck Harry a fierce blow across the face with the flat side
of Harry's own broken sword.

Harry merely blinked his eyes, and did not flinch. He turned pale, then red, and in a moment,
first clearing his voice of a slight huskiness, said, quietly:

"That blow I charge against you both,--the lady as well as you!"

Colden had stepped back some distance after delivering the blow. Something in Harry's answer
seemed to infuriate still further the devil awakened in the Tory's body, for he cried out:

"The lady as well as me,--yes! And this, too!"

And he advanced on Peyton, to strike a second time.

"Stop! How dare you?"

The cry was Elizabeth's. It startled Colden so that he loosened his hold of the broken sword
before he could deliver the blow. At that instant, she caught his arm in her one hand, the
sword-guard in her other. She tore the weapon from his grasp, and faced him with a countenance
as furious as his own.

"What do you mean?" he cried.

For answer she struck him in the face with the flat of the sword, as he had struck Peyton.
"You sneak!" she said.

He recoiled, and stood staring, a ghastly image of bewilderment and consternation. After a
moment he turned livid.

"Ah! I see now!" he gasped. "You love him!"

"Yes!" came the answer, prompt and decided.

He gazed at her with such an expression as a painter of hell might put into the face of a lost
soul, and he said, faintly, in a kind of articulate moan:

"I might have known!"

Suddenly there came from the outer night the exclamation, quick and distinct:

"Whoa!"

CHAPTER XIV.

THE BROKEN SWORD.

The sound wrought a transformation in Colden. His face lighted up with malevolent joy.

"You love too late!" he cried, to Elizabeth. "My men are there! They shall take him to New
York a prisoner, at last!"

"But not delivered up by me, thank God!" replied Elizabeth, while Peyton rose quickly from
his chair, and Colden reeled like a drunken man to the window.

She went behind Peyton, and, with the edge of the broken sword, hacked rather than cut through
one of the outer windings that bound his wrists together, whereupon she speedily uncoiled the rope.

"You were my prisoner. I set you free!" she said, dropped the rope to the floor, and handed
him the broken sword.

He took the weapon in his right hand, and imprisoned Elizabeth with his left arm.

"I'm more your prisoner now than ever!" he said. "You've cut these bonds. Will you put others
on me?"

"Sometime,--if we can save your life!" she answered.

Both turned their eyes towards Colden.

The Tory officer had drawn his sword, and was motioning, in great excitement, to his soldiers
outside.

"This way, men!" he shouted. "To the front door! Damn the louts! Can't they understand?" He
beat upon the window with his sword, knocking out panes of glass. "Come through that door,
I say! Quick, curse you, there's a prisoner here, with a price for his taking! Ay, that's it!
Some one in the hall there, open the front door to my men!"

The sound now came of knocks bestowed on the outside door, and of Sam's heavy tread on the
hall floor.

"Williams! Sam!" shouted Elizabeth. "Don't let them in!"

The heavy tread was heard to stop short. The knocking on the outer door was resumed.

"Let them in, I say," roared Colden, too proud to go himself to the door. "I command it, in
the name of the King!"

"Obey your mistress," cried Peyton, to those in the hall. "I command it, in the name of Congress!"

Colden was silent for a moment, then suddenly threw open the window and called out, "This way,
men! Quick!"

And he drew pistol, and stood ready with steel and ball to guard the window by which his men
were to enter. A new, wild ferocity was on his face, a new, nervous hardness in his body, as
if the latent resolution and strength which a prudent man keeps for a great contest, on which
his all may depend, were at last aroused. In such a mood, the man who, governed by interest,
may have seemed a coward all his life becomes for the once supremely formidable. At last he
thinks the stake worth the play, at last the prize is worth the risk, and because it is so
he will play and risk to the end, hazarding all, not yielding while he breathes. Having opened
the theme which alone, of all themes, shall transform his irresolution into action, he will,
Hamlet like, "fight upon this theme until" his "eyelids will no longer wag." So was Colden
aroused, transfigured, as he stood doubly armed by the window, waiting for his men to clamber in.

"What shall we do, dear?" said Elizabeth.

"Fight!" replied Peyton, tightening at the same time his right palm around his broken sword,
and his left around the hand she had let him take,--for she had moved from the embrace of his arm.

"Ay, there are only two of them," she said, as two burly forms appeared in the open window,
one behind the other.

"There will be three of us, you'll find!" cried Colden. "This time I'll take a hand, if need be."

"You must not stay here," said Peyton to Elizabeth, quickly. "Things will be flying loose in
a moment!"

"I won't leave you!" said she.

"Go! I beg you, go!" he said, releasing her hand, and stepping back.

Meanwhile, Colden's men bounded in through the window. Rough, sturdy fellows were they, who
landed heavily on the parlor floor, and blinked at the light, drawing the while the breeches
of their short muskets from beneath their coats. Their hats and shoulders were coated with snow.

"Take that rebel alive, if you can!" ordered Colden. "He's meant to hang! Stun him with your
musket-butts!"

The men quickly reversed their weapons, and strode heavily towards Harry. To their surprise,
before they could bring down their muskets, which required both hands of each to hold, Harry
dashed forward between them, thinking to cut down Colden with his broken sword, possess himself
of the latter's pistol, shoot one of the soldiers, and meet the other on less unequal terms.
He saw a possibility of his leaping through the open window and fleeing on one of the soldiers'
horses, but the idea was accompanied by the thought that Elizabeth might be made to suffer
for his escape. Her safety now depended on his getting the mastery over his three would-be
captors. So, ere the two astonished fellows could turn, Harry had leaped within sword's reach
of his doubly armed enemy.

But Colden was now as alert as rigid, and he opposed his officer's sword against Peyton's broken
cavalry blade, guarding himself with unexpected swiftness, and giving back, for Harry's sweeping
stroke, a thrust which only the quickest and most dexterous movement turned aside from entering
the Virginian's lungs. As Harry stepped back for an instant out of his adversary's reach, the
Tory raised his pistol. At the same moment the two soldiers, having turned about, rushed on
Peyton from behind. He heard them coming, and half turned to face them. Their movement had
for him one fortunate circumstance. It kept Colden from shooting, for his bullet might have
struck one of his own men.

Now Elizabeth had not been idle. At the moment when Harry had stepped back from her and bade
her go, she had run to the door of the east hall, and called Williams and Sam. While Peyton
had been engaging Colden near the window, the steward and the negro had entered the parlor,
and she had excitedly ordered them to Peyton's aid. Williams still had the duck-gun, Sam the
pistol. Thus it occurred that, as Peyton half turned from Colden towards the two soldiers,
these last-named saw Williams and Sam rush in between them and their prey. Before Williams
could bring his duck-gun to bear, he was struck down senseless by one of the musket blows first
intended for Peyton. Another blow, and from another musket, had been aimed at Sam's woolly
head, but the negro had put up his left hand and caught the descending weapon, and at the same
time had discharged his pistol at the weapon's holder. But Williams, in falling, had knocked
against the darky, and so disturbed his aim, and the ball flew wide. The man who had brought
down Williams now struck Sam a terrible blow with the musket-club, on the temple, and the negro
dropped like a felled ox.

During this brief passage, Peyton had returned to close quarters with Colden. The latter, who
had lowered his pistol when his men had last approached Peyton, and who had resumed the contest
of swords unequal in size and kind, now raised the pistol a second time. But it was caught
by the hands of Elizabeth, who had run around to his left, and who now, suddenly endowed with
the strength of a tigress, wrenched it from him as she had wrenched the broken sword earlier
in the evening. She tried to discharge the pistol at one of the two soldiers, as they, relieved
of the brief interposition of Williams and Sam, were again taking position to bring down their
muskets on Peyton's head while he continued at sword-work with Colden. But the pistol snapped
without going off, whereupon Elizabeth hurled it in the face of the man at whom she had aimed.
The blow disconcerted him so that his musket fell wide of Peyton, who at the same instant,
having seen from the corner of his eye how he was menaced, leaped backward from under the other
descending musket. Then, taking advantage of the moment when the muskets were down, he ran
to the music seat before the spinet, and mounted upon it, thinking rightly that the infuriated
major would follow him, and that he might the better execute a certain manoeuvre from the vantage
of height. Colden indeed rushed after him, and thrust at him, Peyton sweeping the thrusts aside
with pendulum-like swings of his own short weapon. His thought was to send the point that menaced
him so astray that he might leap forward and cleave his enemy with a downward stroke before
the Tory could recover his guard. But Colden pressed him so speedily that he was at last fain
to step up from the music seat to the spinet, landing first on the keyboard, which sent out
a frightened discord as he alighted on it. Finding the keys an uncertain footing, he took another
step, and stood on the body of the instrument, so that Colden would be at the disadvantage
of thrusting upwards. But Colden, seeming to tire a little after a few such thrusts, called
to his men:

"Shoot the dog in the legs!"

Both men aimed at once. Elizabeth screamed. Peyton leaped down from his height to the little
space behind the spinet projection, where he had hidden a week before. Here he found himself
well placed, for here he could be approached on one side only,--unless his adversaries should
follow his example and come at him from the top of the spinet.

Colden attacked him with sword, at the open side, and shouted to his men:

"One of you get on the spinet. The other crawl under. We have him now."

Still guarding himself from his enemy's thrusts, Peyton heard one of the men leap from the
music seat to the spinet, and the other advance creeping, doubtless with gun before him, under
the instrument. Peyton sank to his knees, placed his shoulder under the back edge of the spinet's
projection, and, warding off a downward movement of Colden's sword, turned the instrument over
on its side, checking the creeping man under it, and throwing the other fellow to the floor
some feet away. As the spinet fell, one of its legs, rising swiftly into the air, knocked Colden's
blade upward, and the Tory leaped back lest Peyton might avail himself of the opening. But
the spinet-leg itself hindered Peyton from doing so. Colden rushed forward again, thrusting
as he did so. Peyton leaped aside, made a swift half-turn, and landed a stroke on Colden's
sword-hand, making the Tory cry out and drop the sword. Harry put his foot on it and cried:

"You're at my mercy! Beg quarter!"

But the man who had been thrown from the top of the spinet now returned to the attack, coming
around that end of the upset instrument which was opposite the end where Colden had menaced
Harry. Seeing this new adversary, Harry retreated past Colden, in order to put himself in position.
The soldier hastened after him, with upraised musket. At this moment, Peyton saw himself confronted
by Elizabeth, who pulled open the door of the south hall. He stopped short to avoid running
against her.

"Save yourself!" she cried, and pushed him through the open doorway, flinging the door shut
upon him, a movement which the pursuing soldier, stayed for a moment by collision with Colden,
was not in time to prevent. Harry heard the key move in the lock, and knew that Elizabeth had
turned it, and that he was safe in the south hall, with a minute of vantage which he might
employ as he would.

Elizabeth withdrew the key from the locked door, just as the pursuing soldier arrived at that
door. The man, in his excitement, violently tried to open the door. Colden, who was wrapping
a handkerchief around his wounded hand, shouted to the man:

"You fool, she has the key! Take it from her!"

"You shall kill me first!" she cried, and ran from the man towards the open window, stepping
over the prostrate bodies of Sam and Williams as she went.

"After her! She'll throw it into the snow!" cried Colden.

This much Harry heard through the door, and heard also the heavy tread of the soldier's feet
in pursuit of the girl. His mind imaged forth a momentary picture of the fellow's rough hands
laid on the delicate arms of Elizabeth, of her body clasped by the man in a struggle, her white
skin reddened by his grasp. The spectacle, imaginary and lasting but an instant, maddened Peyton
beyond endurance, made him a giant, a Hercules. He threw himself against the door repeatedly,
plied foot and body in heavy blows. Meanwhile Elizabeth had reached the window, and thrown
the key far out on the snow-heaped lawn. She had no sooner done so than the man laid his clutch
on her arm.

"Fly, Peyton, for God's sake! For my sake!" she shouted.

"You shall pay for aiding the enemy, if he does!" cried Colden. "Don't let her escape, Thompson!"

At that instant the locked door gave way, and in burst Harry, having broken, to save Elizabeth
from a rude contact, the barrier she had closed to save his life. That life, which he had once
saved by callously assailing her heart, he now risked, that her body might not suffer the touch
of an ungentle hand. So swift and sudden was his entrance, that he had crossed the room, and
floored Elizabeth's captor, with a deep gash down the side of the head, ere Colden made a step
towards him.

The man who had been under the fallen spinet had now extricated himself, and regained his feet,
and he and Colden rushed on Peyton at once. Elated by having so speedily wrought Elizabeth's
release, and reduced the number of his able adversaries to two, Peyton bethought himself of
a new plan. He fled through the deep doorway to the east hall, and took position on the staircase.
He turned just in time to parry Colden's sword, which the major had picked up and made shift
to hold in his wrapped-up, wounded hand. Harry saw that an opportune stroke might send the
sword from his enemy's numb and weakening grasp, and his heart swelled with anticipated triumph,
until he heard Colden's hoarse cry:

"Shoot him, James, while I keep him occupied!"

This order was now the more practicable from Harry's being on the stairs, above Colden, a great
part of his body exposed to an aim that could not endanger his antagonist. Breathing heavily,
his eyes afire with hatred, Colden repeated his attacks, while Harry saw the other's musket
raised, the barrel looking him in the eyes. He leaped a step higher, swung his broken sword
against the pendent chandelier, knocked the only burning candle from its socket, and threw
the hall into darkness. A moment later the gun went off, giving an instant's red flame, a loud
crack, and a smell of gunpowder smoke. Harry heard a swift singing near his right ear, and
knew that he was untouched.

Lest Colden's sword, thrust at random, might find him in the dark, Harry instantly bestrode
the stair-rail, and dropped, outside the balustrade, to the floor of the hall. He grasped his
half-sword in both hands, so as to put his whole weight behind it, and made a lunge in the
direction of a muttered curse. The curse gave way to a roar of pain and rage, and Colden's
second follower dropped, spurting blood in the darkness, his shoulder gashed horribly by the
blunt end of Peyton's imperfect weapon. Harry now ran back to the parlor, to deal with Colden
in the light, the latter's greater length of weapon giving a greater searching-power in the
darkness. In the parlor Elizabeth stood waiting in suspense. Sam was sitting on the floor and
staring stupidly at Williams, who was now awake and rubbing his head, and the Tory first fallen
was still senseless. Harry had no sooner taken this scene in at a glance, than Colden was upon him.

The major's eyes seemed to stand out like blazing carbuncles from the face of some deity of rage.

"G--d d----n your soul!" he screamed, and thrust. The point went straight, and Elizabeth, seeing
it protrude through the back of Harry's coat, near the left side of his body, uttered a low
cry, and sank half-fainting to her knees. Colden shouted with triumphant laughter. "Die, you
dog! And when you burn in hell, remember I sent you there!"

But the evil joy suddenly faded out of Colden's face, for Harry Peyton, smiling, took a forward
step, grasped near the hilt the sword that seemed to be sheathed in his own body, forced it
from Colden's hand, and then drew it slowly from its lodgment. No blood discolored it, and
none oozed from Harry's body.

The Virginian's quick movement to escape the thrust had left only a part of his loose-fitting
coat exposed, and Colden's sword had passed through it, leaving him unhurt. Colden's momentary
appearance of victory had been the means of actual defeat.

The Tory major saw his cup of revenge dashed from his lips, saw himself deprived of sword and
sweetheart, neither chance left of living nor motive left for life. His rage collapsed; his
hate burst like a bubble.

"Kill me," he said, quietly, to Peyton.

His look, innocent of any thought to draw compassion, quite disarmed Harry, who stood for a
moment with moistening eyes and a kind of welling-up at the throat, then said, in a rather
unsteady voice:

"No, sir! God knows I've taken enough from you," and he looked at Elizabeth, who had risen
and was standing near him. Softened by the triumphant outcome for her love, she, too, was suddenly
sensible of the defeated man's unhappiness, and her eyes applauded and thanked Harry.

"You've taken what I never had," said Colden, with a chastened kind of bitterness, "yet without
which the life you give me back is worthless."

"Make it worth something with this," and Peyton held Colden's sword out to him.

"What! You will trust me with it?" said Colden, amazed and incredulous, taking the sword, but
holding it limply.

"Certainly, sir!"

Colden was motionless a moment, then placed his arm high against the doorway, and buried his
face against his arm, to hide the outlet of what various emotions were set loose by his enemy's
display of pity and trust.

Harry gently drew Elizabeth to him and kissed her. Yielding, she placed her arms around his
neck, and held him for a moment in an embrace of her own offering. Then she withdrew from his
clasp, and when Colden again faced them she had resumed that invisible veil which no man, not
even the beloved, might pass through till she bade him.

"You will find me worthy of your trust, sir," said Colden, brokenly, yet with a mixture of
manly humility and honorable pride.[10]

"I am so sure of that," said Harry, "that I confide to your care for a time what is dearest
to me in the world. I ask you to accompany Miss Philipse to her home in New York, when it may
suit her convenience, and to see that she suffer nothing for what has occurred here this night."

"You are a generous enemy, sir," said Colden, his eyes moistening again. "One man in ten thousand
would have done me the honor, the kindness, of that request!"

"Why," said Harry, taking his enemy's hand, as if in token of farewell, "whatever be the ways
of the knaves, respectable and otherwise, who are so cautious against tricks like their own,
thank God it's not so rotten a world that a gentleman may not trust a gentleman, when he is
sure he has found one!"

Turning to Elizabeth, he said: "I beg you will leave this house at dawn, if you can. Williams
and Sam, there, will be little the worse for their knocks, and can look after the fellows on
the floor."

"And you," she replied, "must go at once. You must not further risk your life by a moment's
waiting. Cuff shall saddle Cato for you. I sha'n't rest till I feel that you are far on your way."

He approached as if again to kiss her, but she held out her hand to stay him. He took the hand,
bent over it, pressed it to his lips.

"But,--" he said, in a tone as low as a whisper, "when--"

"When the war is over," she answered, softly, "let Cato bring you back."

NOTES.

NOTE 1. (Page 41.)

"The old county historian." Rev. Robert Bolton, born 1814, died 1877. His "History of the County
of Westchester," especially the revised edition published in 1881, is a rich mine of "material."
Among other works that have served the author of this narrative in a study of the period and
place are Allison's "History of Yonkers," Cole's "History of Yonkers," Edsall's "History of
Kingsbridge," Dawson's "Westchester County during the Revolution," Jones's "New York during
the Revolution," Watson's "Annals of New York in the Olden Time," General Heath's "Memoirs,"
Thatcher's "Memoirs," Simcoe's "Military Journal," Dunlap's "History of New York," and Mrs.
Ellet's "Domestic History of the Revolution." For an excellent description of the border warfare
on the "neutral ground," the reader should go to Irving's delightful "Chronicle of Wolfert's
Roost." Cooper's novel, "The Spy," deals accurately with that subject, which is touched upon
also in that good old standby, Lossing's "Pictorial Field-book of the Revolution." Of a tendency in Hermann und Dorothea no trace;
Klopstock and Voss are both theologians, one a rationalist, the other an orthodox, and both have
theological intentions. From Hermann and Dorothea blows a us purer spirit of true humanity, it's
the one with the element of aesthetic freedom and fine art illustration, in Klopstock displaced
prayer and curse the quiet serenity of the visual poet, the Statute of the spirit of free theological
view of things. Both Poet finally, Voss are both Klopstock and German national, but also in
limited Way. Voss painted some sites north German life and being happy with and made friends with respectable
figures of limited morality in those spheres, which he carried his Birth was a member, but he
exhausted the strength of the German people, his German is too narrow; Klopstock sang the empty
concept of fatherland, and went on the wings of enthusiasm Germanischer for everything there,
but he is not friendly and confidential intercourse with the concrete Interests and the real conditions
of the German people and land, his German is too abstract. It cost about Klopstock nothing in his
major poem, which is as epic above all, a national land required to leave the circle and the
Patriotic the religious, to give probably the theological interest at the expense of the national
sufficiently which Goethe him "in the poem the wreaths" in the usual way mildentschuldigende
accused. Goethe is also both national poet, he is more German than any of our poets, although he
never raved for Arminius, the Italians have always been friendly, and his reluctance against a
Christian-Germanic renewal of the Middle Ages not conceal. In Hermann and Dorothea is a German
spirit in true essentiality: but since all the diseased tissue and erroneous, in which that spirit itself
lost, remained excluded from the poem, it seems German as well as Homeric and humane.

We have in the above, on both poems, the Louise and the Messiah, judged a little hard because
we mattered to emphasize their poetic value ratio of Hermann and
Dorothea significantly.

For both certainly have seen some beauties, Luise in the naive, the Messiah the sentimental and
elegiac tone, the one who brings the highest demands, they can not . Satisfy So too Klopstock's
Messiah, after a remark often made long ago Even without reader, and Voss's Luise August Wilhelm
Schlegel remains true saying: If posterity will be able to recommend it to Louise that she has
held for Dorothy baptism.

Comments.

The unique advantages of the large view and presentation, the thought of Viktor Hehn on Goethe
(second edition, Berlin, 1888) known to all true friends of our poet and become dear, are the
warmth of personal devotion, the power of most individual opinion, the fine understanding of
the innermost essence of poetry and especially of Goethe's Poetry can be found in full measure
in his reflections on Hermann and Dorothea Goethe's deepest and most complete seal. Hehn's
manuscript was almost ready to print before nowhere and needed major changes: a pity that
it is not preserved completely. While there is nothing wrong sizes and completeness, as all in
the planning p. 6 listed Points used in our text for treatment, but unfortunately missing in
two places arc, the have included the closing of chapters. Thus, should still connect p. 26
Views, with thoughts on the trail of the origin of tragedy among the Greeks of the epic , Beginning
but omitted due to their very fragmentary nature of my very are, their extent can not measure
and so has the chapter satisfactory Statements. Then the conclusion of the chapter was missing on
the sphere of life where I p. 114, at least the conclusion of the broken record and considering
the thought of Goethe p. 253 could take over here, maybe even some other train, which found there
to here should be examined. Many phrases and sometimes even larger sections of our book, I have
listed below, are already found in the thoughts of Goethe: they could are not lacking in context,
if also the author of the well to a Publication of our book had no more, there already utilized
in another embodiment added. Eliminated from the text to the peaceful enjoyment flow studies
of reading not empty interrupt numbers, I have all the exact quotes: I bring them here in
the comments after that I also added some small scattered on leaves obtained Parerga Hehn
I, and my own additions, it is literature evidence exploited, we take for nothing but unpretentious
Glosses that I liked all of my cherished book divulged.

Introduction.

P. 2 Roetsch, On the Nature of Goethe's Faust, published in his dramatic
and aesthetic treatises (London 1846) p. 36

Viehoff explains Goethe's
poems and returned to their causes, sources and models together with
variant collection and gleaning, 3 volumes, Dusseldorf 1846-53, the
3rd Edition appeared Stuttgart 1876; see similar things about Scherer,
essays on Goethe p. 5

Green, of Goethe from a human standpoint, Darmstadt
1846; see also p. 46 48.

The peculiar Book, so it often fails to Goethe's true character and his poetry does not do
justice, does contain a number of very exciting and clever observations.

P.

3 All the literature of Hermann and Dorothea now recorded the most detailed Max Koch in the 2nd Edition
of Goedeke plan on the history of German poetry band 4, p. 689th

Goethe's Hermann and Dorothea Schlegel discussed in the general literature tables Jena newspaper 1797
No. 393-396, reprinted in its features and reviews volume 2, p. 260 and all his works, Volume
11, p. 183; see also 5 p. "August Wilhelm Schlegel's aesthetic Criticism
can surely with all that which has given its time, and the philosophical
To measure depth and only found in Hegel and Vischer's aesthetics
an equal Continued and / or opposition .... His very first critical
experiments in Jena, about Goethe's Roman elegies and Hermann and
Dorothea, stood out both historically and theoretically high above
the ordinary.

The Roman elegies to a dubious moral Venture seemed, he discussed with expertise and warmth,
with a free poetic and moral Feel like it then and later taste the judges and envious, such
as Herder, probably would have liked to do .... How about the Roman
elegies was August Wilhelm Schlegel Characteristic of Hermann and
Dorothea in a few words exhaustive anticipation all what ever on this
epic insightful term has been said "Thoughts on Goethe p. 112 113.

114. Hehn itself owes Schlegel's review in its many considerations suggestion especially in the
chapters on the epic and the Homerismen.

Yxem, Ueber Goethes Hermann und Dorothea idyllic epic, published in the Hagens Germania (European Journal
of Berlinische Society for German Language and Classical Studies) Band 2, p. 98

Humboldt, aesthetic experiments, the first part of Goethe's Hermann and Dorothea, Braunschweig 1799,
reprinted in his collected works, Volume 4, p. 1, item 4 Edition of the Single Issue (London
1882) contains valuable historical premonition of Hettner, see also P. 5 77. 95. 136. "In this book,
which will deal with Goethe's poems will disappear the same individual as a poetic, almost
all our eyes, it is Schiller's way, only still physically and meaningless, of genres and forms,
and reflected through the reflection and turned her without something tangible that would ...
Humboldt ... System, as Nobility of spirit and idealism, as well as elegance and cold can be called
"Thoughts Goethe on p. 114 226. Prejudice-free and loving is Humboldt's great work of Hettner
appreciated in the above Summary of Hegel, which in its concluding
observations the right Key to the understanding of the book give:
it must certainly in relation festgefügtem be viewed with Humboldt's
linguistic and strictly philosophical views.

Deeper understanding of any one side of Humboldt's character and performance is without substantial
Recycling of stone valley unsurpassed commentary on the philosophy of language works (Berlin
1884) at all impossible.

Schiller's idea of ​​Humboldt's work is best seen from his letter to the Humboldt 27. June 1798
(Correspondence between Schiller and Humboldt, p. 297), but to me incorrect Hehn to interpret in
his mood seems, Goethe's view is clear from his letter to Humboldt of 16 July 1798 (Goethe's
Correspondence with the brothers von Humboldt p. 55).

P. 4 Hillebrand, the German national literature since the beginning of the eighteenth century, especially
since Lessing, is up to the present in the 2nd Band p. 236 of our poem; see also p. 5 "Even Joseph
Hillebrand, at the lowest of all literary historians Goethe recognized, has been free of Gervinus
keep them completely .... Where Hillebrand says himself, because it is excellent "Thoughts on
Goethe p. 171, n. 2

Gervinus speaks of Hermann and Dorothea in the 5th Volume of his history of German poetry P. 522,
see also p. 5 40. 131.

He wrote a history of German poetry, as he his book called, not in poetic, but moral and prosaic
purpose, where, of course all the proportions are reversed. He did not appreciate the poetic product
every time according to his own inner values, even as a member of a continued ongoing development,
but insofar as it could be a means repeal the aesthetic mood and
place of the literary a political era with civil liberties and national
greatness, as he Gervinus, it constructs had to achieve .... Gervinus
was a much studied with his authority and doctrine, the epoch of great
souls is over and the dawning of heroism, together with the other
Baden and Rhenish professors of the leaders in the general shift.

And you can see now, after half a century went on back to him, we must confess, he was actually
a limited cross-head, which itself often headstrong crazy the goal; no true scholar, although
he had had to read much as a literary historian, originally a merchant, and is lacking in, you
know, never gets back on. His discordant nature painted in the unbearably harsh style: one sets
his books with the feeling of the hand, as if you have to wade through
a thorn bush and would now torn Clothes and disheveled hair there,
but that very fact his reputation grew, for the beautiful form Germany
has always been suspicious "Thoughts on Goethe p. 165 167.

It is as if Hehn never Gervinus read Shakespeare wonderful book, and his verdict is, except Note
the style quite unreasonable and without any real contact with Gervinus's innermost nature.
Friendly and Hermann Grimm's opinion is correct, who in his Goethe p. 90, a lance for the creator
of our literary history, breaks, see also Scherer, History of the German Literature S. 723rd

Hermann and Dorothea.

P. 5 They maintain that Schiller is in his letter to Henry Meyer, 21 July 1797 (Correspondence
between Schiller and Goethe, Volume 1, p. 296 Spemann).

P. 6 Rosenkranz, Goethe and his works, p. 346

Day and Annual Reviews of 1796: Goethe's Works, Volume 35, p. 65 Weimar edition, see also P. 57
"With emotion I remember, as we are in deep heart's movement at Goethe bulging Tears the song
that contains the conversation with the mother at Hermann's pear tree, right after read to the
development. Thus, melts at its own coal, he said, by the Dry eyes, "says Caroline of Wolzogen
in their lives Schiller Cotta p. 225, reprinted Goethe's conversations in Volume 1, p. 186

Jean
Paul's characteristic is also mentioned p. 45.

P. 11 In the new literary Gazette from 1807 noted Jakob Grimm, "it is an absurd invent epic do,
because every poem must be self-sealing, written by no poet be ", the site is reprinted in its
small fonts Volume 4, p. 10, n. 4;, see also p. 14 As we have now
to think about this basic principle Grimm, shows Scherer in his Jacob
Grimm p. 145 and p. 133 in his Poetics

P. 12 Hegel, Aesthetics Volume
3, p. 332, see also p. 13 45.

109.

In Hegel's Occur "opened up an immense wealth from the intoxicated glances that regained Home
of the Spirit, and melted from the heat this spring neuaufgegangenen
the rigid persistent separation of the abstract mind and the dualistic
morality 'thoughts Goethe on p. 15 Hehn's philosophical views are
continuously influenced by Hegel (see Dehio in Italy Hehn S. VI) and
his general views expressed in our works of poetry and its development
are based all over the terrain of life of Hegel's aesthetics, the
most tangible and most enduring works of the philosopher, but nowhere
urges the terminal to the revered master excessively disruptive or
out, the exact comparison is often Similarities to the expression
inside.

Before ILLEGAL interference Hegelian dialectic Hehn kept his fine
poetic and human feeling for the shapes and forms of Goethe's Seal.

Herodotus says in the 2nd Book § 53 of Hesiod and Homer: [Greek: hoi houtoi de icy poiêsantes Theogony
Hellêsi, kai tas toisi theoisi epônymias donts kai te kai Timas technas dielontes kai eidea auton
sêmênantes.]

P. 13 Hegel, Aesthetics Volume 3, p. 388th

P. 20 The Homeric Odyssey book examples are 19, verse 392 and Iliad book 21, verse 34th

P. 23 Herder's essay is meant in the 5th Ties of Adrastea "of boring that the epic often accompanied
"the complete works Volume 24, p. 284 Suphan.

I am indebted to demonstrate the ease Bernhard Suphan.

The nature of epic poetry is still a few leaves from Hehn estate deal, from which I would like
to announce here the following:

"The epic has in the plastic and their objectivity and sense both the substantive content and the
presentation in the form real phenomenon, the most intimate relationship. So bloomed both in
Greece. The world of the Homeric poems is in the beautiful balance between the general livelihood
of the Morality, family, country, religious beliefs, law, and the individual particularity of
character, in the beautiful Balance between mind and nature, full of purpose and action external
process, national base of enterprises and individual Intentions and deeds, and the free movement of individual
heroes appear tempered by the gravity of fate and the certainty of
the Purposes.

Therefore, the naivete of the gods appearing structures, the very human and it's not ironic yet.

Local historians draw an effective picture of him departing alone from his estate by the Bronx,
turning for a last look, from the back of his horse, at the fair mansion and broad lands that
were to be his no more, and riding away with a heavy heart. He went, with many shipfuls of
Tory emigrants, to Nova Scotia, and became a member of the council of that colony. His uncle
went to England and died at his country house, Beverly, Yorkshire, in 1785. I allude to the
case of this family, because it was typical of that of a great many families. The Tories of
the American Revolution constitute a subject that has yet to be made much of. They were the
progenitors of English-speaking Canada.

The act of attainder that deprived the De Lanceys of their estates, deprived Colonel Philipse
of his. It was passed by the New York legislature, October 22, 1779. Acts of similar import
were passed in other States. Under this act, Philipse Manor-house was forfeited to the State
about a year after the time of our narrative. The commissioners whose duty it was to dispose
of confiscated property sold the house and mills, in 1785, to Cornelius P. Lowe. It underwent
several transfers, but little change, becoming at length the property of Lemuel Wells, who
held it a long time and, dying in 1842, left it to his nephew. The town of Yonkers grew up
around it, and on May 1, 1868, purchased it for municipal use. The fewest possible alterations
were made in it. These are mainly in the north wing, the part added by the second lord of the
manor in 1745. On the first floor, the partition between dining-room and kitchen was removed,
and the whole space made into a court-room. On the second floor, the space formerly divided
into five bedrooms was transformed into a council-chamber, the garret floor overhead being
removed. The new city hall of Yonkers leaves the old manor-house less necessary for public
purposes. May the old parlors, where the besilked and bepowdered gentry of the province used
to dance the minuet before the change of things, not be given over to baser uses than they
have already served.

Allusion has been made, in different chapters of this narrative, to the Hessians who daily
patrolled the roads in the vicinity of the manor-house. This duty often fell to Pruschank's
yagers, the troop to which belonged Captain Rowe, whose love story is thus told by Bolton:
"Captain Rowe appears to have been in the habit of making a daily tour from Kingsbridge, round
by Miles Square. He was on his last tour of military duty, having already resigned his commission
for the purpose of marrying the accomplished Elizabeth Fowler, of Harlem, when, passing with
a company of light dragoons, he was suddenly fired upon by three Americans of the water guard
of Captain Pray's company, who had ambuscaded themselves in the cedars. The captain fell from
his horse, mortally wounded. The yagers instantly made prisoners of the undisciplined water
guards, and a messenger was immediately despatched to Mrs. Babcock, then living below, in the
parsonage, for a vehicle to remove the wounded officer. The use of her gig and horse was soon
obtained, and a neighbor, Anthony Archer, pressed to drive. In this they conveyed the dying
man to Colonel Van Cortlandt's. They appear to have taken the route of Tippett's Valley, as
the party stopped at Frederick Post's to obtain a drink of water. In the meantime an express
had been forwarded to Miss Fowler, his affianced bride, to hasten without delay to the side
of her dying lover. On her arrival, accompanied by her mother, the expiring soldier had just
strength enough left to articulate a few words, when he sank exhausted with the effort." The
room in which he died is in the well-known mansion in Van Cortlandt Park.

The incident of the horse, related in an early chapter, has a likeness to an adventure that
befell one Thomas Leggett early in the Revolutionary war. He lived with his father on a farm
near Morrisania, then in Westchester County, and was proud in the possession of a fine young
mare. A party of British refugees took this animal, with other property. They had gone two
miles with it, when, from behind a stone wall which they were passing, two Continental soldiers
rose and fired at them. The man with the mare was shot dead. The animal immediately turned
round and ran home, followed by the owner, who had dogged her captors at a distance in the
hope of recovering her.

  SELECTIONS FROM
  L. C. PAGE AND COMPANY'S
  LIST OF NEW FICTION.

An Enemy to the King.

From the Recently Discovered Memoirs of the Sieur de la Tournoire. By ROBERT NEILSON STEPHENS.
Illustrated by H. De M. Young.

The Continental Dragoon.

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.50=

A stirring romance of the Revolution, the scene being laid in and around the old Philipse Manor
House, near Yonkers, which at the time of the story was the central point of the so-called
"neutral territory" between the two armies.

Muriella; or, Le Selve.

By OUIDA. Illustrated by M. B. Prendergast.

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.25=

This is the latest work from the pen of the brilliant author of "Under Two Flags," "Moths,"
etc., etc. It is the story of the love and sacrifice of a young peasant girl, told in the absorbing
style peculiar to the author.

The Road to Paris.

By ROBERT NEILSON STEPHENS, author of "An Enemy to the King," "The Continental Dragoon," etc.
Illustrated by H. C. Edwards. (In press.)

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.50=

An historical romance, being an account of the life of an American gentleman adventurer of
Jacobite ancestry, whose family early settled in the colony of Pennsylvania. The scene shifts
from the unsettled forests of the then West to Philadelphia, New York, London, Paris, and,
in fact, wherever a love of adventure and a roving fancy can lead a soldier of fortune. The
story is written in Mr. Stephens's best style, and is of absorbing interest.

Rose à Charlitte.

An Acadien Romance. By MARSHALL SAUNDERS, author of "Beautiful Joe," etc. Illustrated by H.
De M. Young.

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.50=

In this novel, the scene of which is laid principally in the land of Evangeline, Marshall Saunders
has made a departure from the style of her earlier successes. The historical and descriptive
setting of the novel is accurate, the plot is well conceived and executed, the characters are
drawn with a firm and delightful touch, and the fortunes of the heroine, Rose à Charlitte,
a descendant of an old Acadien family, will be followed with eagerness by the author's host
of admirers.

Bobbie McDuff.

By CLINTON ROSS, author of "The Scarlet Coat," "Zuleika," etc. Illustrated by B. West Clinedinst.

1 vol., large 16mo, cloth =$1.00=

Clinton Ross is well known as one of the most promising of recent American writers of fiction,
and in the description of the adventures of his latest hero, Bobbie McDuff, he has repeated
his earlier successes. Mr. Ross has made good use of the wealth of material at his command.
New York furnishes him the hero, sunny Italy a heroine, grim Russia the villain of the story,
while the requirements of the exciting plot shift the scene from Paris to New York, and back
again to a remote, almost feudal villa on the southern coast of Italy.

In Kings' Houses.

A Romance of the Reign of Queen Anne. By JULIA C. R. DORR, author of "A Cathedral Pilgrimage,"
etc. Illustrated by Frank T. Merrill.

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.50=

Mrs. Dorr's poems and travel sketches have earned for her a distinct place in American literature,
and her romance, "In Kings' Houses," is written with all the charm of her earlier works. The
story deals with one of the most romantic episodes in English history. Queen Anne, the last
of the reigning Stuarts, is described with a strong, yet sympathetic touch, and the young Duke
of Gloster, the "little lady," and the hero of the tale, Robin Sandys, are delightful characterizations.

Sons of Adversity.

A Romance of Queen Elizabeth's Time. By L. COPE CONFORD, author of "Captain Jacobus," etc.
Illustrated by J. W. Kennedy.

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.25=

A tale of adventure on land and sea at the time when Protestant England and Catholic Spain
were struggling for naval supremacy. Spanish conspiracies against the peace of good Queen Bess,
a vivid description of the raise of the Spanish siege of Leyden by the combined Dutch and English
forces, sea fights, the recovery of stolen treasure, are all skilfully woven elements in a
plot of unusual strength.

The Count of Nideck.

From the French of Erckman-Chatrian, translated and adapted by RALPH BROWNING FISKE. Illustrated
by Victor A. Searles.

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.25=

A romance of the Black Forest, woven around the mysterious legend of the Wehr Wolf. The plot
has to do with the later German feudal times, is brisk in action, and moves spiritedly from
start to finish. Mr. Fiske deserves a great deal of credit for the excellence of his work.
No more interesting romance has appeared recently.

The Making of a Saint.

By W. SOMERSET MAUGHAM. Illustrated by Gilbert James.

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.50=

"The Making of a Saint" is a romance of Mediæval Italy, the scene being laid in the 15th century.
It relates the life of a young leader of Free Companions who, at the close of one of the many
petty Italian wars, returns to his native city. There he becomes involved in its politics,
intrigues, and feuds, and finally joins an uprising of the townspeople against their lord.
None can resent the frankness and apparent brutality of the scenes through which the hero and
his companions of both sexes are made to pass, and many will yield ungrudging praise to the
author's vital handling of the truth. In the characters are mirrored the life of the Italy
of their day. The book will confirm Mr. Maugham's reputation as a strong and original writer.

Omar the Tentmaker.

A Romance of Old Persia. By NATHAN HASKELL DOLE. Illustrated. (In press.)

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.50=

Mr. Dole's study of Persian literature and history admirably equips him to enter into the life
and spirit of the time of the romance, and the hosts of admirers of the inimitable quatrains
of Omar Khayyam, made famous by Fitzgerald, will be deeply interested in a tale based on authentic
facts in the career of the famous Persian poet. The three chief characters are Omar Khayyam,
Nizam-ul-Mulk, the generous and high-minded Vizier of the Tartar Sultan Malik Shah of Mero,
and Hassan ibu Sabbah, the ambitious and revengeful founder of the sect of the Assassins. The
scene is laid partly at Naishapur, in the Province of Khorasan, which about the period of the
First Crusade was at its acme of civilization and refinement, and partly in the mountain fortress
of Alamut, south of the Caspian Sea, where the Ismailians under Hassan established themselves
towards the close of the 11th century. Human nature is always the same, and the passions of
love and ambition, of religion and fanaticism, of friendship and jealousy, are admirably contrasted
in the fortunes of these three able and remarkable characters as well as in those of the minor
personages of the story.

Captain Fracasse.

A new translation from the French of Gotier.

The Rejuvenation of Miss Semaphore.

A farcical novel. By HAL GODFREY. Illustrated by Etheldred B. Barry. (In press.)

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.25=

A fanciful, laughable tale of two maiden sisters of uncertain age who are induced, by their
natural longing for a return to youth and its blessings, to pay a large sum for a mystical
water which possesses the value of setting backwards the hands of time. No more delightfully
fresh and original book has appeared since "Vice Versa" charmed an amused world. It is well
written, drawn to the life, and full of the most enjoyable humor.

Midst the Wild Carpathians.

By MAURUS JOKAI, author of "Black Diamonds," "The Lion of Janina," etc. Authorized translation
by R. Nisbet Bain. Illustrated. (In press.)

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.25=

A thrilling, historical, Hungarian novel, in which the extraordinary dramatic and descriptive
powers of the great Magyar writer have full play. As a picture of feudal life in Hungary it
has never been surpassed for fidelity and vividness. The translation is exceedingly well done.

The Golden Dog.

A Romance of Quebec. By WILLIAM KIRBY. New authorized edition.

Bijli the Dancer.

By JAMES BLYTHE PATTON. Illustrated by Horace Van Rinth. (In press.)

1 vol., library 12mo, cloth =$1.50=

A novel of Modern India. The fortunes of the heroine, an Indian Naucht girl, are told with
a vigor, pathos, and a wealth of poetic sympathy that makes the book admirable from first to last.

"To Arms!"

Being Some Passages from the Early Life of Allan Oliphant, Chirurgeon, Written by Himself,
and now Set Forth for the First Time. By ANDREW BALFOUR. The story is splendidly told, the
magic circle which the author draws about the reader compelling a complete forgetfulness of
prosaic nineteenth century life.

Mere Folly.

A novel. The interest centres in the development of the character of the heroine, a New England
girl, whose high-strung temperament is in constant revolt against the confining limitations
of nineteenth century surroundings. The reader's interest is held to the end, and the book
will take high rank among American psychological novels.

A Hypocritical Romance and other stories.

By CAROLINE TICKNOR. Illustrated by J. W. Kennedy.

1 vol., large 16mo, cloth =$1.00=

Miss Ticknor, well known as one of the most promising of the younger school of American writers,
has never done better work than in the majority of these clever stories, written in a delightful
comedy vein.

Cross Trails.

By VICTOR WAITE. Mr. Waite is to be congratulated upon the strength with which he has drawn
his characters.

A Mad Madonna and other stories.

By L. CLARKSON WHITELOCK, with eight half-tone illustrations.

1 vol., large 16mo, cloth =$1.00=

A half dozen remarkable psychological stories, delicate in color and conception. Each of the
six has a touch of the supernatural, a quick suggestion, a vivid intensity, and a dreamy realism
that is matchless in its forceful execution.

On the Point.

A Summer Idyl. By NATHAN HASKELL DOLE, author of "Not Angels Quite," with dainty half-tone
illustrations as chapter headings.

1 vol., large 16mo, cloth =$1.00=

A bright and clever story of a summer on the coast of Maine, fresh, breezy, and readable from
the first to the last page. The narrative describes the summer outing of a Mr. Merrithew and
his family. The characters are all honest, pleasant people, whom we are glad to know. We part
from them with the same regret with which we leave a congenial party of friends.

Cavalleria Rusticana; or, Under the Shadow of Etna.

Translated from the Italian of Giovanni Verga, by NATHAN HASKELL DOLE. Illustrated by Etheldred
B. Barry.

1 vol., 16mo, cloth =$0.50=

Giovanni Verga stands at present as unquestionably the most prominent of the Italian novelists.
His supremacy in the domain of the short story and in the wider range of the romance is recognized
both at home and abroad. The present volume contains a selection from the most dramatic and
characteristic of his Sicilian tales. Verga is himself a native of Sicily, and his knowledge
of that wonderful country, with its poetic and yet superstitious peasantry, is absolute. Such
pathos, humor, variety, and dramatic quality are rarely met in a single volume.

