Outside, the rain was still falling and drove in through the partly open door, causing the
atmosphere of the mortuary to be even more than usually cold and damp.  The empty coffin had
been reared against one of the walls and the marble slab was still stained with blood, for
the keeper had not had time to clean it since the body had been removed.

'I can see 'ow it's been worked,' said Crass at last.  'There's one of the members of the club
who works for Snatchum, and 'e's took it on 'isself to give the order for the funeral; but
'e's got no right to do it.'

'Right or no right, 'e's done it,' replied Misery, 'so you'd better take the box back to the shop.'

Crass and Sawkins accordingly returned to the workshop, where they were presently joined by Nimrod.

'I've been thinking this business over as I came along,' he said, 'and I don't see being beat
like this by Snatchum; so you two can just put the tressels and the box on a hand cart and
we'll take it over to Philpot's house.'

Nimrod walked on the pavement while the other two pushed the cart, and it was about half past
nine, when they arrived at the street in Windley where Philpot used to live.  They halted in
a dark part of the street a few yards away from the house and on the opposite side.

'I think the best thing we can do,' said Misery, 'is for me and Sawkins to wait 'ere while
you go to the 'ouse and see 'ow the land lies. You've done all the business with 'er so far.
It's no use takin' the box unless we know the corpse is there; for all we know, Snatchum may
'ave taken it 'ome with 'im.'

'Yes; I think that'll be the best way,' agreed Crass, after a moment's thought.

Nimrod and Sawkins accordingly took shelter in the doorway of an empty house, leaving the handcart
at the kerb, while Crass went across the street and knocked at Philpot's door.  They saw it
opened by an elderly woman holding a lighted candle in her hand; then Crass went inside and
the door was shut.  In about a quarter of an hour he reappeared and, leaving the door partly
open behind him, he came out and crossed over to where the others were waiting.  As he drew
near they could see that he carried a piece of paper in his hand.

'It's all right,' he said in a hoarse whisper as he came up.  I've got the stifficut.'

Misery took the paper eagerly and scanned it by the light of a match that Crass struck.  It
was the certificate right enough, and with a sigh of relief Hunter put it into his note-book
and stowed it safely away in the inner pocket of his coat, while Crass explained the result
of his errand.

It appeared that the other member of the Society, accompanied by Snatchum, had called upon
the old woman and had bluffed her into giving them the order for the funeral.  It was they
who had put her up to getting the certificate from the Coroner--they had been careful to keep
away from the inquest themselves so as not to arouse Hunter's or Crass's suspicions.

'When they brought the body 'ome this afternoon,' Crass went on, 'Snatchum tried to get the
stifficut orf 'er, but she'd been thinkin' things over and she was a bit frightened 'cos she
knowed she'd made arrangements with me, and she thought she'd better see me first; so she told
'im she'd give it to 'im on Thursday; that's the day as 'e was goin' to 'ave the funeral.'

'He'll find he's a day too late,' said Misery, with a ghastly grin. 'We'll get the job done
on Wednesday.'

'She didn't want to give it to me, at first,' Crass concluded, 'but I told 'er we'd see 'er
right if old Snatchum tried to make 'er pay for the other coffin.'

'I don't think he's likely to make much fuss about it,' said Hunter. 'He won't want everybody
to know he was so anxious for the job.'

Crass and Sawkins pushed the handcart over to the other side of the road and then, lifting
the coffin off, they carried it into the house, Nimrod going first.

The old woman was waiting for them with the candle at the end of the passage.

'I shall be very glad when it's all over,' she said, as she led the way up the narrow stairs,
closely followed by Hunter, who carried the tressels, Crass and Sawkins, bringing up the rear
with the coffin.  'I shall be very glad when it's all over, for I'm sick and tired of answerin'
the door to undertakers.  If there's been one 'ere since Friday there's been a dozen, all after
the job, not to mention all the cards what's been put under the door, besides the one's what
I've had give to me by different people.  I had a pair of boots bein' mended and the man took
the trouble to bring 'em 'ome when they was finished--a thing 'e's never done before--just
for an excuse to give me an undertaker's card.

'Then the milkman brought one, and so did the baker, and the greengrocer give me another when
I went in there on Saturday to buy some vegetables for Sunday dinner.'

Arrived at the top landing the old woman opened a door and entered a small and wretchedly furnished
room.

Across the lower sash of the window hung a tattered piece of lace curtain.  The low ceiling
was cracked and discoloured.

There was a rickety little wooden washstand, and along one side of the room a narrow bed covered
with a ragged grey quilt, on which lay a bundle containing the clothes that the dead man was
wearing at the time of the accident.

There was a little table in front of the window, with a small looking-glass upon it, and a
cane-seated chair was placed by the bedside and the floor was covered with a faded piece of
drab-coloured carpet of no perceptible pattern, worn into holes in several places.

In the middle of this dreary room, upon a pair of tressels, was the coffin containing Philpot's
body.  Seen by the dim and flickering light of the candle, the aspect of this coffin, covered
over with a white sheet, was terrible in its silent, pathetic solitude.

Hunter placed the pair of tressels he had been carrying against the wall, and the other two
put the empty coffin on the floor by the side of the bed.  The old woman stood the candlestick
on the mantelpiece, and withdrew, remarking that they would not need her assistance.  The three
men then removed their overcoats and laid them on the end of the bed, and from the pocket of
his Crass took out two large screwdrivers, one of which he handed to Hunter.  Sawkins held
the candle while they unscrewed and took off the lid of the coffin they had brought with them:
it was not quite empty, for they had brought a bag of tools inside it.

'I think we shall be able to work better if we takes the other one orf the trussels and puts
it on the floor,' remarked Crass.

'Yes, I think so, too,' replied Hunter.

Crass took off the sheet and threw it on the bed, revealing the other coffin, which was very
similar in appearance to the one they had brought with them, being of elms with the usual imitation
brass furniture.  Hunter took hold of the head and Crass the foot and they lifted it off the
tressels on to the floor.

''E's not very 'eavy; that's one good thing,' observed Hunter.

''E always was a very thin chap,' replied Crass.

The screws that held down the lid had been covered over with large-headed brass nails which
had to be wrenched off before they could get at the screws, of which there were eight altogether.
It was evident from the appearance of the beads of these screws that they were old ones that
had been used for some purpose before: they were rusty and of different sizes, some being rather
larger or smaller, than they should have been.  They were screwed in so firmly that by the
time they had drawn half of them out the two men were streaming with perspiration.  After a
while Hunter took the candle from Sawkins and the latter had a try at the screws.

'Anyone would think the dam' things had been there for a 'undred years,' remarked Hunter, savagely,
as he wiped the sweat from his face and neck with his handkerchief.

Kneeling on the lid of the coffin and panting and grunting with the exertion, the other two
continued to struggle with their task. Suddenly Crass uttered an obscene curse; he had broken
off one side of the head of the screw he was trying to turn and almost at the same instant
a similar misfortune happened to Sawkins.

After this, Hunter again took a screwdriver himself, and when they got all the screws out with
the exception of the two broken ones, Crass took a hammer and chisel out of the bag and proceeded
to cut off what was left of the tops of the two that remained.  But even after this was done
the two screws still held the lid on the coffin, and so they had to hammer the end of the blade
of the chisel underneath and lever the lid up so that they could get hold of it with their
fingers.  It split up one side as they tore it off, exposing the dead man to view.

Although the marks of the cuts and bruises were still visible on Philpot's face, they were
softened down by the pallor of death, and a placid, peaceful expression pervaded his features.
His hands were crossed upon his breast, and as he lay there in the snow-white grave clothes,
almost covered in by the white lace frill that bordered the sides of the coffin, he looked
like one in a profound and tranquil sleep.

They laid the broken lid on the bed, and placed the two coffins side by side on the floor as
close together as possible.  Sawkins stood at one side holding the candle in his left hand
and ready to render with his right any assistance that might unexpectedly prove to be necessary.
Crass, standing at the foot, took hold of the body by the ankles, while Hunter at the other
end seized it by the shoulders with his huge, clawlike hands, which resembled the talons of
some obscene bird of prey, and they dragged it out and placed it in the other coffin.

Whilst Hunter--hovering ghoulishly over the corpse--arranged the grave clothes and the frilling,
Crass laid the broken cover on the top of the other coffin and pushed it under the bed out
of the way.  Then he selected the necessary screws and nails from the bag, and Hunter having
by this time finished, they proceeded to screw down the lid. Then they lifted the coffin on
to the tressels, covering it over with the sheet, and the appearance it then presented was
so exactly similar to what they had seen when they first entered the room, that it caused the
same thought to occur to all of them: Suppose Snatchum took it into his head to come there
and take the body out again?  If he were to do so and take it up to the cemetery they might
be compelled to give up the certificate to him and then all their trouble would be lost.

After a brief consultation, they resolved that it would be safer to take the corpse on the
handcart to the yard and keep it in the carpenter's shop until the funeral, which could take
place from there. Crass and Sawkins accordingly lifted the coffin off the tressels, and--while
Hunter held the light--proceeded to carry it downstairs, a task of considerable difficulty
owing to the narrowness of the staircase and the landing.  However, they got it down at last
and, having put it on the handcart, covered it over with the black wrapper. It was still raining
and the lamp in the cart was nearly out, so Sawkins trimmed the wick and relit it before they
started.

Hunter wished them 'Good-night' at the corner of the street, because it was not necessary for
him to accompany them to the yard--they would be able to manage all that remained to be done
by themselves. He said he would make the arrangements for the funeral as soon as he possibly
could the next morning, and he would come to the job and let them know, as soon as he knew
himself, at what time they would have to be in attendance to act as bearers.  He had gone a
little distance on his way when he stopped and turned back to them.

'It's not necessary for either of you to make a song about this business, you know,' he said.

The two men said that they quite understood that: he could depend on their keeping their mouths
shut.

When Hunter had gone, Crass drew out his watch.  It was a quarter to eleven.  A little way
down the road the lights of a public house were gleaming through the mist.

'We shall be just in time to get a drink before closing time if we buck up,' he said.  And
with this object they hurried on as fast as they could.

When they reached the tavern they left the cart standing by the kerb, and went inside, where
Crass ordered two pints of four-ale, which he permitted Sawkins to pay for.

'How are we going on about this job?' inquired the latter after they had each taken a long
drink, for they were thirsty after their exertions. 'I reckon we ought to 'ave more than a
bob for it, don't you?  It's not like a ordinary "lift in".'

'Of course it ain't,' replied Crass.  'We ought to 'ave about, say'--reflecting--'say arf a
dollar each at the very least.'

'Little enough too,' said Sawkins.  'I was going to say arf a crown, myself.'

Crass agreed that even half a crown would not be too much.

''Ow are we going' on about chargin' it on our time sheets?' asked Sawkins, after a pause.
'If we just put a "lift in", they might only pay us a bob as usual.'

As a rule when they had taken a coffin home, they wrote on their time sheets, 'One lift in',
for which they were usually paid one shilling, unless it happened to be a very high-class funeral,
when they sometimes got one and sixpence.  They were never paid by the hour for these jobs.

Crass smoked reflectively.

'I think the best way will be to put it like this,' he said at length. '"Philpot's funeral.
One lift out and one lift in.  Also takin' corpse to carpenter's shop."  'Ow would that do?'

Sawkins said that would be a very good way to put it, and they finished their beer just as
the landlord intimated that it was closing time. The cart was standing where they left it,
the black cloth saturated with the rain, which dripped mournfully from its sable folds.

When they reached the plot of waste ground over which they had to pass in order to reach the
gates of the yard, they had to proceed very cautiously, for it was very dark, and the lantern
did not give much light.  A number of carts and lorries were standing there, and the path wound
through pools of water and heaps of refuse.  After much difficulty and jolting, they reached
the gate, which Crass unlocked with the key he had obtained from the office earlier in the
evening. They soon opened the door of the carpenter's shop and, after lighting the gas, they
arranged the tressels and then brought in the coffin and placed it upon them.  Then they locked
the door and placed the key in its usual hiding-place, but the key of the outer gate they took
with them and dropped into the letter-box at the office, which they had to pass on their way home.

As they turned away from the door, they were suddenly confronted by a policeman who flashed
his lantern in their faces and demanded to know why they had tried the lock...

The next morning was a very busy one for Hunter, who had to see several new jobs commenced.
They were all small affairs.  Most of them would only take two or three days from start to finish.

Attending to this work occupied most of his morning, but all the same he managed to do the
necessary business connected with the funeral, which he arranged to take place at two o'clock
on Wednesday afternoon from the mortuary, where the coffin had been removed during the day,
Hunter deciding that it would not look well to have the funeral start from the workshop.

Although Hunter had kept it as quiet as possible, there was a small crowd, including several
old workmates of Philpot's who happened to be out of work, waiting outside the mortuary to
see the funeral start, and amongst them were Bill Bates and the Semi-drunk, who were both sober.
Barrington and Owen were also there, having left work for the day in order to go to the funeral.
They were there too in a sense as the representatives of the other workmen, for Barrington
carried a large wreath which had been subscribed for voluntarily by Rushton's men. They could
not all afford to lose the time to attend the funeral, although most of them would have liked
to pay that tribute of regard to their old mate, so they had done this as the next best thing.
Attached to the wreath was a strip of white satin ribbon, upon which Owen had painted a suitable
inscription.

Promptly at two o'clock the hearse and the mourning coach drove up with Hunter and the four
bearers--Crass, Slyme, Payne and Sawkins, all dressed in black with frock coats and silk hats.
Although they were nominally attired in the same way, there was a remarkable dissimilarity
in their appearance.  Crass's coat was of smooth, intensely black cloth, having been recently
dyed, and his hat was rather low in the crown, being of that shape that curved outwards towards
the top. Hunter's coat was a kind of serge with a rather rusty cast of colour and his hat was
very tall and straight, slightly narrower at the crown than at the brim.  As for the others,
each of them had a hat of a different fashion and date, and their 'black' clothes ranged from
rusty brown to dark blue.

These differences were due to the fact that most of the garments had been purchased at different
times from different second-hand clothes shops, and never being used except on such occasions
as the present, they lasted for an indefinite time.

When the coffin was brought out and placed in the hearse, Hunter laid upon it the wreath that
Barrington gave him, together with the another he had brought himself, which had a similar
ribbon with the words: 'From Rushton & Co. With deep sympathy.'

Seeing that Barrington and Owen were the only occupants of the carriage, Bill Bates and the
Semi-drunk came up to the door and asked if there was any objection to their coming and as
neither Owen nor Barrington objected, they did not think it necessary to ask anyone else's
permission, so they got in.

Meanwhile, Hunter had taken his position a few yards in front of the hearse and the bearers
each his proper position, two on each side.  As the procession turned into the main road, they
saw Snatchum standing at the corner looking very gloomy.  Hunter kept his eyes fixed straight
ahead and affected not to see him, but Crass could not resist the temptation to indulge in
a jeering smile, which so enraged Snatchum that he shouted out:

'It don't matter!  I shan't lose much!  I can use it for someone else!'

The distance to the cemetery was about three miles, so as soon as they got out of the busy
streets of the town, Hunter called a halt, and got up on the hearse beside the driver, Crass
sat on the other side, and two of the other bearers stood in the space behind the driver's
seat, the fourth getting up beside the driver of the coach; and then they proceeded at a rapid
pace.

As they drew near to the cemetery they slowed down, and finally stopped when about fifty yards
from the gate.  Then Hunter and the bearers resumed their former position, mid they passed
through the open gate and up to the door of the church, where they were received by the clerk--a
man in a rusty black cassock, who stood by while they carried the coffin in and placed it on
a kind of elevated table which revolved on a pivot.  They brought it in footfirst, and as soon
as they had placed it upon the table, the clerk swung it round so as to bring the foot of the
coffin towards the door ready to be carried out again.

There was a special pew set apart for the undertakers, and in this Hunter and the bearers took
their seats to await the arrival of the clergyman.  Barrington and the three others sat on
the opposite side. There was no altar or pulpit in this church, but a kind of reading desk
stood on a slightly raised platform at the other end of the aisle.

After a wait of about ten minutes, the clergyman entered and, at once proceeding to the desk,
began to recite in a rapid and wholly unintelligible manner the usual office.  If it had not
been for the fact that each of his hearers had a copy of the words--for there was a little
book in each pew--none of them would have been able to gather the sense of what the man was
gabbling.  Under any other circumstances, the spectacle of a human being mouthing in this absurd
way would have compelled laughter, and so would the suggestion that this individual really
believed that he was addressing the Supreme Being.  His attitude and manner were contemptuously
indifferent. While he recited, intoned, or gabbled, the words of the office, he was reading
the certificate and some other paper the clerk had placed upon the desk, and when he had finished
reading these, his gaze wandered abstractedly round the chapel, resting for a long time with
an expression of curiosity upon Bill Bates and the Semi-drunk, who were doing their best to
follow in their books the words he was repeating. He next turned his attention to his fingers,
holding his hand away from him nearly at arm's length and critically examining the nails.

From time to time as this miserable mockery proceeded the clerk in the rusty black cassock
mechanically droned out a sonorous 'Ah-men', and after the conclusion of the lesson the clergyman
went out of the church, taking a short cut through the grave-stones and monuments, while the
bearers again shouldered the coffin and followed the clerk to the grave.  When they arrived
within a few yards of their destination, they were rejoined by the clergyman, who was waiting
for them at the corner of one of the paths.  He put himself at the head of the procession with
an open book in his hand, and as they walked slowly along, he resumed his reading or repetition
of the words of the service.

He had on an old black cassock and a much soiled and slightly torn surplice.  The unseemly
appearance of this dirty garment was heightened by the circumstance that he had not taken the
trouble to adjust it properly.  It hung all lop-sided, showing about six inches more of the
black cassock underneath one side than the other. However, perhaps it is not right to criticize
this person's appearance so severely, because the poor fellow was paid only seven-and-six for
each burial, and as this was only the fourth funeral he had officiated at that day, probably
he could not afford to wear clean linen--at any rate, not for the funerals of the lower classes.
Hunter and the rest of the funeral party made their way back towards the gate of the cemetery
where the hearse and the carriage were waiting.

On their way they saw another funeral procession coming towards them. It was a very plain-looking
closed hearse with only one horse.  There was no undertaker in front and no bearers walked
by the sides.

It was a pauper's funeral.

Three men, evidently dressed in their Sunday clothes, followed behind the hearse.  As they
reached the church door, four old men who were dressed in ordinary everyday clothes, came forward
and opening the hearse took out the coffin and carried it into the church, followed by the
other three, who were evidently relatives of the deceased.  The four old men were paupers--inmates
of the workhouse, who were paid sixpence each for acting as bearers.

They were just taking out the coffin from the hearse as Hunter's party was passing, and most
of the latter paused for a moment and watched them carry it into the church.  The roughly made
coffin was of white deal, not painted or covered in any way, and devoid of any fittings or
ornament with the exception of a square piece of zinc on the lid. None of Rushton's party was
near enough to recognize any of the mourners or to read what was written on the zinc, but if
they had been they would have seen, roughly painted in black letters

                                     J.L.
                                   Aged 67

and some of them would have recognized the three mourners who were Jack Linden's sons.

As for the bearers, they were all retired working men who had come into their 'titles'.  One
of them was old Latham, the venetian blind maker.

Chapter 48

The Wise men of the East

At the end of the following week there was a terrible slaughter at Rushton's.  Barrington and
all the casual hands were sacked, including Newman, Easton and Harlow, and there was so little
work that it looked as if everyone else would have to stand off also.  The summer was practically
over, so those who were stood off had but a poor chance of getting a start anywhere else, because
most other firms were discharging hands as well.

There was only one other shop in the town that was doing anything at all to speak of, and that
was the firm of Dauber and Botchit.  This firm had come very much to the front during the summer,
and had captured several big jobs that Rushton & Co. had expected to get, besides taking away
several of the latter's old customers.

This firm took work at almost half the price that Rushton's could do it for, and they had a
foreman whose little finger was thicker than Nimrod's thigh. Some of the men who had worked
for both firms during the summer, said that after working for Dauber and Botchit, working for
Rushton seemed like having a holiday.

'There's one bloke there,' said Newman, in conversation with Harlow and Easton.  'There's one
bloke there wot puts up twenty-five rolls o' paper in a day an' trims and pastes for 'imself;
and as for the painters, nearly everyone of 'em gets over as much work as us three put together,
and if you're working there you've got to do the same or get the sack.'

However much truth or falsehood or exaggeration there may have been in the stories of the sweating
and driving that prevailed at Dauber and Botchit's, it was an indisputable fact that the other
builders found it very difficult to compete with them, and between the lot of them what work
there was to do was all finished or messed up in about a quarter of the time that it would
have taken to do it properly.

By the end of September there were great numbers of men out of employment, and the practical
persons who controlled the town were already preparing to enact the usual farce of 'Dealing'
with the distress that was certain to ensue.  The Rev. Mr Bosher talked of reopening the Labour
Yard; the secretary of the OBS appealed for more money and cast-off clothing and boots--the
funds of the Society had been depleted by the payment of his quarter's salary.  There were
rumours that the Soup Kitchen would be reopened at an early date for the sale of 'nourishment',
and charitable persons began to talk of Rummage Sales and soup tickets.

Now and then, whenever a 'job' 'came in', a few of Rushton's men were able to put in a few
hours' work, but Barrington never went back.  His manner of life was the subject of much speculation
on the part of his former workmates, who were not a little puzzled by the fact that he was
much better dressed than they had ever known him to be before, and that he was never without
money.  He generally had a tanner or a bob to lend, and was always ready to stand a drink,
to say nothing of what it must have cost him for the quantities of Socialist pamphlets and
leaflets that he gave away broadcast.  He lodged over at Windley, but he used to take his meals
at a little coffee tavern down town, where he used often to invite one or two of his old mates
to take dinner with him.  It sometimes happened that one of them would invite him home of an
evening, to drink a cup of tea, or to see some curiosity that the other thought would interest
him, and on these occasions--if there were any children in the house to which they were going--Barrington
usually made a point of going into a shop on their way, and buying a bag of cakes or fruit
for them.

All sorts of theories were put forward to account for his apparent affluence.  Some said he
was a toff in disguise; others that he had rich relations who were ashamed of him because he
was a Socialist, and who allowed him so much a week so long as he kept away from them and did
not use his real name.  Some of the Liberals said that he was in the pay of the Tories, who
were seeking by underhand methods to split up the Progressive Liberal Party.  Just about that
time several burglaries took place in the town, the thieves getting clear away with the plunder,
and this circumstance led to a dark rumour that Barrington was the culprit, and that it was
these ill-gotten gains that he was spending so freely.

About the middle of October an event happened that drew the town into a state of wild excitement,
and such comparatively unimportant subjects as unemployment and starvation were almost forgotten.

Sir Graball D'Encloseland had been promoted to yet a higher post in the service of the country
that he owned such a large part of; he was not only to have a higher and more honourable position,
but also--as was nothing but right--a higher salary.  His pay was to be increased to seven
thousand five hundred a year or one hundred and fifty pounds per week, and in consequence of
this promotion it was necessary for him to resign his seat and seek re-election.

The ragged-trousered Tory workmen as they loitered about the streets, their stomachs empty,
said to each other that it was a great honour for Mugsborough that their Member should be promoted
in this way. They boasted about it and assumed as much swagger in their gait as their broken
boots permitted.

They stuck election cards bearing Sir Graball's photograph in their windows and tied bits of
blue and yellow ribbon--Sir Graball's colours--on their underfed children.

The Liberals were furious.  They said that an election had been sprung on them--they had been
taken a mean advantage of--they had no candidate ready.

They had no complaint to make about the salary, all they complained of was the short notice.
It wasn't fair because while they--the leading Liberals--had been treating the electors with
the contemptuous indifference that is customary, Sir Graball D'Encloseland had been most active
amongst his constituents for months past, cunningly preparing for the contest.  He had really
been electioneering for the past six months!  Last winter he had kicked off at quite a number
of football matches besides doing all sorts of things for the local teams.  He had joined the
Buffalos and the Druids, been elected President of the Skull and Crossbones Boys' Society,
and, although he was not himself an abstainer, he was so friendly to Temperance that he had
on several occasions, taken the chair at teetotal meetings, to say nothing of the teas to the
poor school children and things of that sort.  In short, he had been quite an active politician,
in the Tory sense of the word, for months past and the poor Liberals had not smelt a rat until
the election was sprung upon them.

A hurried meeting of the Liberal Three Hundred was held, and a deputation sent to London to
find a candidate but as there was only a week before polling day they were unsuccessful in
their mission. Another meeting was held, presided over by Mr Adam Sweater--Rushton and Didlum
also being present.

Profound dejection was depicted on the countenances of those assembled slave-drivers as they
listened to the delegates' report.  The sombre silence that followed was broken at length by
Mr Rushton, who suddenly started up and said that he began to think they had made a mistake
in going outside the constituency at all to look for a man.  It was strange but true that a
prophet never received honour in his own land. They had been wasting the precious time running
about all over the country, begging and praying for a candidate, and overlooking the fact that
they had in their midst a gentleman--a fellow townsman, who, he believed, would have a better
chance of success than any stranger. Surely they would all agree--if they could only prevail
upon him to stand--that Adam Sweater would be an ideal Liberal Candidate!

While Mr Rushton was speaking the drooping spirits of the Three Hundred were reviving, and
at the name of Sweater they all began to clap their hands and stamp their feet.  Loud shouts
of enthusiastic approval burst forth, and cries of 'Good old Sweater' resounded through the room.

When Sweater rose to reply, the tumult died away as suddenly as it had commenced.  He thanked
them for the honour they were conferring upon him.  There was no time to waste in words or
idle compliments; rather than allow the Enemy to have a walk-over, he would accede to their
request and contest the seat.

A roar of applause burst from the throats of the delighted Three Hundred.

Outside the hail in which the meeting was being held a large crowd of poverty-stricken Liberal
working men, many of them wearing broken boots and other men's cast-off clothing, was waiting
to hear the report of the slave-drivers' deputation, and as soon as Sweater had consented to
be nominated, Didlum rushed and opened the window overlooking the street and shouted the good
news down to the crowd, which joined in the cheering.  In response to their demands for a speech,
Sweater brought his, obese carcass to the window and addressed a few words to them, reminding
them of the shortness of the time at their disposal, and intreating them to work hard in order
that the Grand old Flag might be carried to victory.

At such times these people forgot all about unemployment and starvation, and became enthusiastic
about 'Grand old Flags'.  Their devotion to this flag was so great that so long as they were
able to carry it to victory, they did not mind being poverty stricken and hungry and ragged;
all that mattered was to score off their hated 'enemies' their fellow countrymen the Tories,
and carry the grand old flag to victory.  The fact that they had carried the flag to victory
so often in the past without obtaining any of the spoils, did not seem to damp their ardour
in the least.  Being philanthropists, they were content--after winning the victory--that their
masters should always do the looting.

At the conclusion of Sweater's remarks the philanthropists gave three frantic cheers and then
someone in the crowd shouted 'What's the colour?'  After a hasty consultation with Rushton,
who being a 'master' decorator, was thought to be an authority on colours--green--grass green--was
decided upon, and the information was shouted down to the crowd, who cheered again.  Then a
rush was made to Sweater's Emporium and several yards of cheap green ribbon were bought, and
divided up into little pieces, which they tied into their buttonholes, and thus appropriately
decorated, formed themselves into military order, four deep, and marched through all the principal
streets, up and down the Grand Parade, round and round the Fountain, and finally over the hill
to Windley, singing to the tune of 'Tramp, tramp, tramp, the Boys are marching':

        'Vote, Vote, Vote for Adam Sweater!
        Hang old Closeland on a tree!
        Adam Sweater is our man,
        And we'll have him if we can,
        Then we'll always have the biggest loaf for tea.'

The spectacle presented by these men--some of them with grey heads and beards--as they marked
time or tramped along singing this childish twaddle, would have been amusing if it had not
been disgusting.

By way of variety they sang several other things, including:

        'We'll hang ole Closeland
        On a sour apple tree,'

and

        'Rally, Rally, men of Windley
        For Sweater's sure to win.'

As they passed the big church in Quality Street, the clock began to strike.  It was one of
those that strike four chimes at each quarter of the hour.  It was now ten o'clock so there
were sixteen musical chimes:

        Ding, dong!

They all chanted A-dam Sweat-er' in time with the striking clock.  In the same way the Tories
would chant:

        'Grab--all Close--land!
                     The Working-man's Friend!'
              'Vote for Sweater and Temperance Reform.'
           'Vote for Sweater--Free Trade and Cheap Food.'

                                 or

      'Vote for D'Encloseland: Tariff Reform and Plenty of Work!'

This beautiful idea--'Plenty of Work'--appealed strongly to the Tory workmen.  They seemed
to regard themselves and their children as a sort of machines or beasts of burden, created
for the purpose of working for the benefit of other people.  They did not think it right that
they should Live, and enjoy the benefits of civilization.  All they desired for themselves
and their children was 'Plenty of Work'.

They marched about the streets singing their Marseillaise, 'Work, Boys, Work and be contented',
to the tune of 'Tramp, tramp, tramp the Boys are marching', and at intervals as they tramped
along, they gave three cheers for Sir Graball, Tariff Reform, and--Plenty of Work.

Both sides imported gangs of hired orators who held forth every night at the corners of the
principal streets, and on the open spaces from portable platforms, and from motor cars and
lorries.  The Tories said that the Liberal Party in the House of Commons was composed principally
of scoundrels and fools, the Liberals said that the Tory Party were fools and scoundrels. 
A host of richly dressed canvassers descended upon Windley in carriages and motor cars, and
begged for votes from the poverty-stricken working men who lived there.

One evening a Liberal demonstration was held at the Cross Roads on Windley Hill.  Notwithstanding
the cold weather, there was a great crowd of shabbily dressed people, many of whom had not
had a really good meal for months.  It was a clear night.  The moon was at the full, and the
scene was further illuminated by the fitful glare of several torches, stuck on the end of twelve-foot
poles.  The platform was a large lorry, and there were several speakers, including Adam Sweater
himself and a real live Liberal Peer--Lord Ammenegg.  This individual had made a considerable
fortune in the grocery and provision line, and had been elevated to the Peerage by the last
Liberal Government on account of his services to the Party, and in consideration of other considerations.

Both Sweater and Ammenegg were to speak at two other meetings that night and were not expected
at Windley until about eight-thirty, so to keep the ball rolling till they arrived, several
other gentlemen, including Rushton--who presided--and Didlum, and one of the five pounds a
week orators, addressed the meeting.  Mingled with the crowd were about twenty rough-looking
men--strangers to the town--who wore huge green rosettes and loudly applauded the speakers.
They also distributed Sweater literature and cards with lists of the different meetings that
were to be held during the election.  These men were bullies hired by Sweater's agent.  They
came from the neighbourhood of Seven Dials in London and were paid ten shillings a day.  One
of their duties was to incite the crowd to bash anyone who disturbed the meetings or tried
to put awkward questions to the speakers.

The hired orator was a tall, slight man with dark hair, beard and moustache, he might have
been called well-looking if it had not been for a ugly scar upon his forehead, which gave him
a rather sinister appearance.  He was an effective speaker; the audience punctuated his speech
with cheers, and when he wound up with an earnest appeal to them--as working men--to vote for
Adam Sweater, their enthusiasm knew no bounds.

'I've seen him somewhere before,' remarked Barrington, who was standing in the crowd with Harlow,
Owen and Easton.

'So have I,' said Owen, with a puzzled expression.  'But for the life of me, I can't remember
where.'

Harlow and Easton also thought they had seen the man before, but their speculations were put
an end to by the roar of cheering that heralded the arrival of the motor car, containing Adam
Sweater and his friend, Lord Ammenegg.  Unfortunately, those who had arranged the meeting had
forgotten to provide a pair of steps, so Sweater found it a matter of considerable difficulty
to mount the platform.  However, while his friends were hoisting and pushing him up, the meeting
beguiled the time by singing:

        'Vote, vote, vote for Adam Sweater.'

After a terrible struggle they succeeded in getting him on to the cart, and while he was recovering
his wind, Rushton made a few remarks to the crowd.  Sweater then advanced to the front, but
in consequence of the cheering and singing, he was unable to make himself heard for several
minutes.

When at length he was able to proceed, ho made a very clever speech--it had been specially
written for him and had cost ten guineas.  A large part of it consisted of warnings against
the dangers of Socialism. Sweater had carefully rehearsed this speech and he delivered it very
effectively.  Some of those Socialists, he said, were well-meaning but mistaken people, who
did not realize the harm that would result if their extraordinary ideas were ever put into
practice.  He lowered his voice to a blood-curdling stage whisper as he asked:

'What is this Socialism that we hear so much about, but which so few understand? What is it,
and what does it mean?'

Then, raising his voice till it rang through the air and fell upon the ears of the assembled
multitude like the clanging of a funeral bell, he continued:

'It is madness!  Chaos!  Anarchy!  It means Ruin!  Black Ruin for the rich, and consequently,
of course, Blacker Ruin still for the poor!'

As Sweater paused, a thrill of horror ran through the meeting.  Men wearing broken boots and
with patches upon the seats and knees, and ragged fringes round the bottoms of the legs of
their trousers, grew pale, and glanced apprehensively at each other.  If ever Socialism did
come to pass, they evidently thought it very probable that they would have to walk about in
a sort of prehistoric highland costume, without any trousers or boots at all.

Toil-worn women, most of them dressed in other women's shabby cast-off clothing--weary, tired-looking
mothers who fed their children for the most part on adulterated tea, tinned skimmed milk and
bread and margarine, grew furious as they thought of the wicked Socialists who were trying
to bring Ruin upon them.

It never occurred to any of these poor people that they were in a condition of Ruin, Black
Ruin, already.  But if Sweater had suddenly found himself reduced to the same social condition
as the majority of those he addressed, there is not much doubt that he would have thought that
he was in a condition of Black Ruin.

The awful silence that had fallen on the panic-stricken crowd, was presently broken by a ragged-trousered
Philanthropist, who shouted out:

'We knows wot they are, sir.  Most of 'em is chaps wot's got tired of workin' for their livin',
so they wants us to keep 'em.'

