A

NARRATIVE

OF THE

MOST REMARKABLE PARTICULARS

IN THE LIFE OF

JAMES ALBERT UKAWSAW GRONNIOSAW,

AN AFRICAN PRINCE,

As related by HIMSELF.

BATH:

Printed by W. GYE in Westgate-Street; and sold by T. MILLS,

Bookseller, in King's-Mead-Square.

Price Six-Pence.

1772

TO THE

RIGHT HONOURABLE

The Countess of Huntingdon;

THIS

NARRATIVE

Of my LIFE,

And of God's wonderful Dealings with me, is,

(Through Her LADYSHIP'S Permission)

Most Humbly Dedicated,

By her LADYSHIP'S

Most obliged

And obedient Servant,

JAMES ALBERT.

THE PREFACE to the READER.

This Account of the Life and spiritual Experience of James Albert was taken from his own Mouth
and committed to Paper by the elegant Pen of a young Lady of the Town of Leominster, for her
own private Satisfaction, and without any Intention at first that it should be made public.
But she has now been prevail'd on to commit it to the Press, both with a view to serve Albert
and his distressed Family, who have the sole Profits arising from the Sale of it; and likewise
as it is apprehended, this little History contains Matter well worthy the Notice and Attention
of every Christian Reader.

Perhaps we have here in some Degree a Solution of that Question that has perplex'd the Minds
of so many serious Persons, viz. In what Manner will God deal with those benighted Parts of
the World where the Gospel of Jesus Christ hath never reach'd? Now it appears from the Experience
of this remarkable Person, that God does not save without the Knowledge of the Truth; but,
with Respect to those whom he hath fore-known, though born under every outward Disadvantage,
and in Regions of the grossest Darkness and Ignorance, he most amazingly acts upon and influences
their Minds, and in the Course of wisely and most wonderfully appointed Providences, he brings
them to the Means of spiritual Information, gradually opens to their View the Light of his
Truth, and gives them full Possession and Enjoyment of the inestimable Blessings of his Gospel.
Who can doubt but that the Suggestion so forcibly press'd upon the Mind of Albert (when a Boy)
that there was a Being superior to the Sun, Moon, and Stars (the Objects of African Idolatry)
came from the Father of Lights, and was, with Respect to him, the First-Fruit of the Display
of Gospel-Glory? His long and perilous Journey to the Coast of Guinea, where he was sold for
a Slave, and so brought into a Christian Land; shall we consider this as the alone Effect of
a curious and inquisitive Disposition? Shall we in accounting for it refer to nothing higher
than mere Chance and accidental Circumstances? Whatever Infidels and Deists may think; I trust
the Christian Reader will easily discern an All-wise and Omnipotent Appointment and Direction
in these Movements. He belong'd to the Redeemer of lost Sinners; he was the Purchase of his
Cross; and therefore the Lord undertook to bring him by a Way that he knew not, out of Darkness
into his marvellous Light, that he might lead him to a saving Heart-Acquaintance and Union
with the triune God in Christ reconciling the World unto himself; and not imputing their Trespasses.
As his Call was very extraordinary, so there are certain Particulars exceedingly remarkable
in his Experience. God has put singular Honour upon him in the Exercise of his Faith and Patience,
which in the most distressing and pitiable Trials and Calamities have been found to the Praise
and Glory of God. How deeply must it affect a tender Heart, not only to be reduc'd to the last
Extremity himself, but to have his Wife and Children perishing for Want before his Eyes! Yet
his Faith did not fail him; he put his Trust in the Lord, and he was delivered. And at this
Instant, though born in an exalted Station of Life, and now under the Pressure of various afflicting
Providences, I am persuaded (for I know the Man) he would rather embrace the Dung-hill, having
Christ in his Heart, than give up his spiritual Possessions and Enjoyment, to fill the Throne
of Princes. It perhaps may not be amiss to observe that James Albert left his native Country,
(as near as I can guess from certain Circumstances) when he was about 15 Years old. The ingenuity
of ship-builders effected a revolution in naval architecture, and rendered possible the construction
of vessels of from ten thousand to twenty-five thousand tons burden. Merchant companies and
capitalists arose to embrace the whole world in their mighty speculations, studying the capabilities
of all countries for trade, the most desolate as well as the most inviting, the meanest as
keenly as the mightiest, linking the whole world in one vast commercial
circle, that the European race might be borne on to the mercantile
conquest of the universe; and all this came about, doubtless, to effect
its deeper and more permanent moral conquest by the despised, doom-trodden,
starving, dying Irishman, who laid claim to one arm, one possession
only-- his faith and the blessing of the Church.

Was not the Irish exodus intimately connected with all those events?

Was it not one of the mightiest causes of all those gigantic enterprises?

But where were the funds to be found for such immense undertakings?

The treasury of nations is continually drained of vast sums at home,
and dare not draw away a part of its metallic basis sufficient for
such a purpose.

Moreover, it is limited, and needs the precious metals as a solid foundation
whereon to rest, or the fabric built upon it will be the fabric of
a dream, as was that of Law in France at the beginning of the eighteenth
century.

The gold and silver mines of Mexico and Peru seem exhausted; the
new ones of the Ural Mountains in Northern Asia, of the Atlantic coast
of North America, were not adequate to meet the demands of such mighty
operations.

Suddenly, in the year 1846, a Swiss captain, transformed into a California settler, while endeavoring
to turn a water-fall in his new home to some account, discovers gold-dust in the sand. As if by
magic, the coast of California, hitherto neglected, difficult of
access at the time, and consequently ignored by mankind, notwithstanding
its wealth in mineral and vegetable productions, becomes at once the
cynosure of all eyes, the hope of all hearts, the most renowned of
all countries.

Thither they flock in crowds prom all parts of Europe and America, and a steady flow of seventy million
dollars annually is secured as a basis for the new designs of capitalists and merchants. Other
gold-fields are soon discovered all along the American coast, on the Pacific, from Lower California to
Alaska, inviting men to go thither and settle, just opposite to the Asiatic Continent, separated
from it only by the broad but easily-navigated Pacific Ocean. Soon also, far away south in the antipodes,
opposite to another portion of Asia, rich gold-fields are opened up in the newly-discovered Continent
of Australia, attracting immigration toward another spot, whence
the Asiatic nations may also be reached with greater facility and
dispatch.

Whoever believes that Providence has something to do with the affairs of men; whoever is wise
enough to see that this universe is not the result of chance, and that its destinies are ruled by a
superior power, must admit that when events as unexpected as they
are unprepared by man come to pass-- events which are so connected
together as to reveal the workings of a single mind and a great object
at once, foreshadowed if not positively foretold, God is the designer,
and a stronger hand is at work than the combined power of men and
devils could successfully oppose.

This is a truth which was not unknown to Homer, centuries ago, when he described Jove holding our
globe suspended in space at the end of a chain, and defying all the inferior gods to move the
world in a direction contrary to that given by his mighty arm.

The image,
striking and poetical as it is, for a Christian is too material. We speak more correctly when we
say that Mind-- the Divine Mind-- is the great invincible and invisible Force of which all
material forces are but the created agents, and by which all inferior minds must stand or fall,
conquer or fail. A man must be blind with that incurable blindness-- of will-- who cannot see
it acting in and on the universe, and even controlling the lower designs of puny intellects. The reverent
eye which sees the vastness of the plan, the multitude of its agents, aiding and seconding it
consciously and unconsciously, recognizes it, and the supreme object of its workings, Love, infinite
Love. And we distinguish with grateful surprise all those circumstances visibly appearing in
the great fact which has just been so imperfectly sketched, and which
will come home to us still more forcibly when the workings of its
lesser details come to be examined.

Here, for instance, at the moment of writing these lines (March, 1872) we learn from the morning newspapers
of the recent arrival of the Japanese embassy at San Francisco; that its members had been dispatched
to this country to study European, or, as we call them, Japhetic institutions, for the purpose
of copying and adapting them to their own wants. The embassy, detained at Salt Lake City by the
snow-blockade on the Pacific Railroad, refused to go back, temporarily, to California, and made
up their mind to wait in Utah, until it is possible for them to proceed. Pacific Railroad, Salt
Lake City, San Francisco, Japanese embassy, adoption of European manners by the Mikado and daimios--
who can fail to gather from these words and details the conception
of means to an end, and that end the one we now begin to study?

The first circumstance coming under our review and indicative of a loving design on the part of
Providence, a circumstance not marked sufficiently at the time,
is the preservation by the English themselves of the poor remnants
of the Irish race, which the first working of the plan had so frightfully
decimated and left in danger of being utterly wiped out.

Had they disappeared, would Japhetism have become a blessing to the Asiatic nations? The Catholic,
looking abroad and casting his mind's eye over the vast European field, to all seeming so rich
in every production, yet in reality so sterile morally, peering with awe and horror into the Japhetic
caldron-- for such it is-- seething and bubbling to the brim, full of the most deadly poisons
and noxious substances, ready at any moment to overflow in infected waves and sweep over the unfortunate
countries which look to it so anxiously for blessings, a torrent
of black destruction, spreading around naught but desolation and barrenness--
the Catholic eye, seeing all this, can find but one answer to our
query.

The Asiatic races cannot hope to be benefited by the introduction of European manners among them, unless
the same great movement carries in its train the holy Catholic Church: and as that introduction
must be brought about by English-speaking leaders, the only English-speaking
Catholics of numerical significance must be the instruments of the
adorable designs of Providence.

That this assertion may not appear too sweeping, it is only enough to instance the example of India, which
England has held long enough to convert, at least in part, had she so desired and been moved by the
Spirit of God, yet to-day India stands in a worse relation toward Protestantism than when Protestantism
in the name of Christianity, but in the person of a British trader, settled down in its midst.
What good has Hindostan derived? But, at this very moment, the whole Irish race is at the mercy of the
English Government and people. Only let the same kind of vessels continue to be dispatched filled with
Irish emigrants, and the whole race must disappear within a short period, or become so reduced in numbers
that its operations as a race, on a large scale, will be unproductive of sufficient results. And it
is well to mark that at the time of this outpouring of the race, as long before, and almost
constantly since, there were Englishmen rejoicing at the glorious result which death by plague and famine
was about to produce. It were easy to quote many a barbarous passage from the London Times, expressive
of the most satanic joy, not only at the departure of the Irish from the "United Kingdom," but
at the prospect of their ultimate, or rather proximate disappearance out of the world altogether.
Yet it was the same English Government and people which, feeling, let us hope, some compassion
at the sight of this new woe of the "Niobe of nations," determined
to try and save her children, as, if they must cast them out, at least
it should he alive and full of health on a foreign shore.

Laws, therefore, were passed, regulating the quantity and quality of provisions, particularly
of drinkable water, the number of the crew and working-men, the ventilation of the vessel, the
number of passengers to be received, etc. Still, these first attempts at humanity seem to have been
rather faint-hearted, as the following passage from Mr. Maguire's "Irish in America," showing
how they were carried out, and how inadequate was the remedy applied
in 1848, will explain: "The ships, of which such glowing accounts
were read on Sunday by the Irish peasant near the chapel-gate, were
but too often old and unseaworthy, insufficient in accommodation,
not having even an adequate supply of water for a long voyage, and,
to render matters worse, they, as a rule, were shamefully underhanded.

True, the provisions and the crew must have passed muster in Liverpool;... but there were tenders
and lighters to follow the vessel out to sea; and over the sides of that vessel several of the mustered
men would pass, and casks, and boxes, and sacks would be expeditiously hoisted, to the amazement
of the simple people who looked on at the strange and unaccountable
operation.

And, thus, the great ship, with its living freight, would turn her prow toward the West, depending
on her male passengers, as on so many impressed seamen, to handle her ropes or to work her
pumps in case of accident. What with bad or scanty provisions, scarcity of water, severe hardship,
and long confinement in a foul den, ship-fever reaped yet a glorious harvest between-decks,
as frequent splashes of shot-weighted corpses into the deep but too terribly testified. Whatever the
cause, the deaths on board the British ships enormously exceeded
the mortality on the ships of any other country.

According to the records of the Commissioners of Emigration for the State of New York, the quota
of sick per thousand stood thus in 1848 British vessels, 30; American, 9 3/ 5; German, 8 3/ 5. It
was yet no unusual occurrence for the survivor of a family of ten or twelve to land alone,
bewildered and broken-hearted, on the wharf at New York; the rest,
the family, parents, and children, had been swallowed in the sea,
their bodies marking the course of the ship to the New World."

It would seem, then, that those first English regulations, by which British ships were to pass
muster at Liverpool before sailing, were not very efficient; the figures of mortality quoted by Mr. Maguire
are too eloquent; and it would be a pleasure to us to be able to
say with certainty that the more stringent and better executed laws
afterward enforced did not proceed from the Commission of Emigration,
which originated in New York with some generous-hearted Irish-Americans.

Our readers will have noticed that, even in 1848, with all the apparent desire on the part of England
to save the remnants of the Irish nation, the mortality on board British ships was more than three times
that on board American vessels, and nearly four times greater than
that on board German ships.

Why this difference? And why should it be so enormous? It is possible that to the Legislature
of New York State chiefly, and soon after to the Congress of the United States at Washington,
which enacted stringent laws for the protection of immigrants at sea, belong the chief honor of saving
hundreds of thousands of Irish lives, and that England, whether urged by the effects of good example,
or for very shame, soon followed in their wake. But, whatever the
cause may have been, it is a heart-felt pleasure to record the fact
that from 1849, when an act of Parliament, entitled the "Passengers Act,"
imposed on ship-owners and captains of vessels strict conditions for
the welfare of emigrants, government control on this subject became
every year more immediate and severe.

Not only were the vessels, provisions, water, medicine chests, etc., more carefully examined, but
the passengers themselves were compelled to undergo a careful inspection as to their health and
wardrobe. And, a thing which had never been done before, the space allotted to each emigrant
on deck and between-decks was determined and subjected to serious control, so that no overcrowding
of passengers should take place. The penalties, also, on delinquents became even severe; heavy fines
were imposed, and in some cases transportation to a penal settlement was decreed against the more
offensive outrages on humanity. If all abuses failed to be corrected by such laws, it is because
the most stringent enactments can, to a greater or less extent, always be evaded by those desirous
of evading them; but there is every reason to believe that the legislators were honest in their intent
of remedying the glaring evils which previously obtained, and, to a great extent, their efforts
met with success, as is evidenced by the fact that the mortality on
board of British vessels has shown yearly a remarkable diminution
since that time.

According to the "Twenty-fourth General Report," the mortality was: In 1854, 0.74 per cent., already
a very remarkable diminution on previous averages; in 1860, it was reduced to 0.15 per cent.
This was the percentage for vessels going to North America only. The first operation of the
missionary people was to plant the living tree of Catholicism in the United States, and so powerfully
forward its growth, that other spiritual plants of a noxious kind,
and weeds that go by the name of creeds, should gradually be choked
up; finally, let us hope, to disappear.

While
speaking on this subject, and laying before the reader the necessary
details, we desire not to be held forgetful of the efforts made in a like
direction by Catholic immigrants of other nationalities. A word has
already been said of the early influence of the French in the North
and of the Spaniards in the South, in establishing the Church in
North America.

The German children of the true Church, though at first not so conspicuous,
have for a long time taken, and are now particularly taking, an active
part in the dissemination of the faith, and there can be no doubt
that, with the daily increase of German immigration, their large numbers
must in course of time make a lasting impression on the territory
where they settle.

But the French, the Spaniards, and the Germans, must forget their language before they become widely
useful in the great work before them; and thus the Irish form the only English-speaking people on
whom the brunt of the battle must fall. Moreover, we treat only of the Irish race. The wonderful
history of the spread of Catholicity in North America by the Irish,
in the northern part of the United States particularly, would call
for an array of details which it would be impossible to furnish here
in extenso.

An imperfect
sketch must suffice. First comes the consideration that, when the wave of immigration touched
the continent, it might have been feared that, by its absorption into a dry and parched soil, the aggregate
loss would have reduced to a mere nothing the ultimate gain. There were no churches for the new
worshippers, no priests to administer to them the sacraments of Christ,
no Catholic school-teachers to train their children.

That is to say, these means of preservation and of propagation were so few and so far between,
that many of the newly-arrived immigrants were forced to establish themselves in places where they
could find none of those, to them, priceless advantages.

The spiritual dearth was not indeed so great as that previously described. The zeal of bishops and priests,
and teachers from regular orders, had been so active in its labors, that, aided by the liberty
which the institutions of the country afforded, results, astonishing indeed, had already rewarded
their efforts. But, after all, what were these compared with the demands so suddenly laid upon them
by such a rapid increase of numbers?

It might be said with truth of multitudes of immigrants, that the position
in which they then found themselves was very little different from
that of their predecessors at the beginning of the century. As late as
1834, Archbishop Purcell, of Cincinnati, wrote: "There are places in which
there are Catholics of twenty years of age, who have not yet had an
opportunity of performing one single public act of their religion. How
many fall sick and die without the sacraments! How many children are
brought up in ignorance and vice!

How many persons marry out of the Church, and thus weaken the bonds that held them to it!"--
(Annals of the Propagation of Faith, Vol. viii.) To the same annals,
three years later, Dr. England, of Charleston, sent the long letter
in which he detailed the innumerable losses sustained by the Church
in America in consequence of the want of spiritual assistance.

The letter was, in fact, a cry of anguish wrung from him by the sight
he witnessed. Such was the universal feeling among those who could
rightly appreciate the fatal consequences of the rush of Catholics to
the New World without any provision prepared for their reception. And
yet all these laments and apprehensions preceded the vast inpouring
of immigrants subsequent to the year 1846.

What must have been the consequent losses then? Yet, looking now, in 1872, at the present state of
the Church in the Union, who can say that this inpouring and rush, unprepared
as the country was for its reception, was not one of the greatest
means devised by Providence, not only for establishing the Catholic
Church in this country for all time, but likewise as a preparation
for further developments, not only on this continent, but on the part
of many a nation now sitting in "the shadow of death!"

Deplorable, indeed, were the losses, but permanent and wonderful the gain. The first effect of the
great calamity which occurred along the St. Lawrence and its tributaries, in 1847, was to
reduce the immigration to Canada to insignificant numbers, and, proportionately increase that to
the United States in a quadruple ratio. Massachusetts and Connecticut, in New England, and the
great States of New York and Pennsylvania, were now the chief places of resort for the new-comers;
and from New York, principally, they began to pour, in a long, steady stream, away by the Erie
Canal, westward to the great lakes. All along these lines, congregations were, providentially,
already formed; and, in the passage of the stream, they were immediately,
as by magic, increased in some instances, to a tenfold proportion.

The labors of the clergy were correspondingly multiplied, and efforts
were immediately made to obtain new recruits for its ranks.

Then appeared a very strange fact, which, at the time, was remarked upon by everybody, but has never
been satisfactorily explained. Wherever the number of worshippers in a church induced the chief
pastors to have another constructed in the neighborhood, upon the
completion of the new edifice, the old one seemed to suffer no diminution
in attendance, and the congregation attending the new one gave no
evidence of having hitherto been uncared for.

This very remarkable fact was of such frequent occurrence that it could not be a delusion, or an
exceptional case having its origin in some extraordinary cause; it was evidently a providential
dispensation, akin, in a spiritual sense, to the miraculous multiplication of loaves, twice mentioned
in the Gospel. There have certainly been numerous examples of this, in the city of New York particularly,
for more than twenty years; and probably the same thing is occurring at the time of the present
writing. Then, another fact occurred, deplored by many, chiefly by Mr. Maguire, in the interesting
work already quoted from, yet, evidently of a providential character
also, and consequently eminently fruitful, and, it may be said, adorable
in its depth.

The Catholic immigrants, although in their own country agriculturists for the most part, forgot
the tilling of the soil as soon as they reached their new home, and settled down in great numbers
in all the large cities, on the line they pursued toward the West. Many
special evils resulted from this, detailed at length by those whose
wonder it excited, and who strove, for excellent motives, to thwart
this providential movement.

But the immense good which immediately followed from it, and which, within a short time, was
to be greatly increased, was never mentioned in reply to the reasons advanced by these well-meaning
complainants. The first result of it was the sudden and necessary creation of many new episcopal
sees in all large cities, where churches were being rapidly built,
or had already been erected in astonishing numbers.

Suppose the Catholics had, following the old bent, turned themselves chiefly to the tillage of
the soil, and buried themselves away in scattered country villages and farms, how long would the
creation of those new sees have been delayed? Who is ignorant of the effect of a new see on the propagation
of Catholicity? Cities which otherwise would have numbered among their population only a few hundred
Catholics, scarcely sufficient for the filling of one small edifice,
saw at once one-third, one-half, or even the larger portion of their
population clamoring for a Catholic bishop, and all the institutions
a bishopric brings in its train. "Behold, He
cometh in the clouds and every eye shall see him and they that pierc'd Him." These words affected
me excessively; I was in great agonies because I thought my master directed them to me only;
and, I fancied, that he observ'd me with unusual earnestness--I was farther confirm'd in this
belief as I look'd round the church, and could see no one person beside myself in such grief
and distress as I was; I began to think that my master hated me, and was very desirous to go
home, to my own country; for I thought that if God did come (as he said) He would be sure to
be most angry with me, as I did not know what He was, nor had ever heard of him before.

I went home in great trouble, but said nothing to any body.--I was somewhat afraid of my master;
I thought he disliked me.--The next text I heard him preach from was, Heb. xii. 14. "follow
peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the LORD." he preached the
law so severely, that it made me tremble.--he said, that GOD would judge the whole world; Ethiopia,
Asia, and Africa, and every where.--I was now excessively perplexed, and undetermined what
to do; as I had now reason to believe my situation would be equally bad to go, as to stay.--I
kept these thoughts to myself, and said nothing to any person whatever.

I should have complained to my good mistress of this great trouble of mind, but she had been
a little strange to me for several days before this happened, occasioned by a story told of
me by one of the maids. The servants were all jealous, and envied me the regard, and favour
shewn me by my master and mistress; and the Devil being always ready, and diligent in wickedness,
had influenced this girl, to make a lye on me.--This happened about hay-harvest, and one day
when I was unloading the waggon to put the hay into the barn, she watched an opportunity, in
my absence, to take the fork out of the stick, and hide it: when I came again to my work, and
could not find it, I was a good deal vexed, but I concluded it was dropt somewhere among the
hay; so I went and bought another with my own money: when the girl saw that I had another,
she was so malicious that she told my mistress I was very unfaithful, and not the person she
took me for; and that she knew, I had, without my master's permission, order'd many things
in his name, that he must pay for; and as a proof of my carelessness produc'd the fork she
had taken out of the stick, and said, she had found it out of doors--My Lady, not knowing the
truth of these things, was a little shy to me, till she mention'd it, and then I soon cleared
myself, and convinc'd her that these accusations were false.

I continued in a most unhappy state for many days. My good mistress insisted on knowing what
was the matter. When I made known my situation she gave me John Bunyan on the holy war, to
read; I found his experience similar to my own, which gave me reason to suppose he must be
a bad man; as I was convinc'd of my own corrupt nature, and the misery of my own heart: and
as he acknowledg'd that he was likewise in the same condition, I experienc'd no relief at all
in reading his work, but rather the reverse.--I took the book to my lady, and inform'd her
I did not like it at all, it was concerning a wicked man as bad as myself; and I did not chuse
to read it, and I desir'd her to give me another, wrote by a better man that was holy and without
sin.--She assur'd me that John Bunyan was a good man, but she could not convince me; I thought
him to be too much like myself to be upright, as his experience seem'd to answer with my own. 

Approved by the people.

The tribe of Acamantis had the prytany, Phoenippus was secretary, Niciades chairman. Laches moved,
in the name of the good luck of the Athenians, that they should conclude the armistice upon
the terms agreed upon by the Lacedaemonians and the allies. It was agreed accordingly in the popular
assembly that the armistice should be for one year, beginning that very day, the fourteenth
of the month of Elaphebolion; during which time ambassadors and heralds should go and come
between the two countries to discuss the bases of a pacification. That the generals and prytanes
should call an assembly of the people, in which the Athenians should first consult on the peace,
and on the mode in which the embassy for putting an end to the war
should be admitted.

That the embassy now present should at once take the engagement before the people to keep well
and truly this truce for one year.

On these terms the Lacedaemonians concluded with the Athenians and their allies on the twelfth
day of the Spartan month Gerastius; the allies also taking the oaths. Those who concluded
and poured the libation were Taurus, son of Echetimides, Athenaeus, son of Pericleidas, and
Philocharidas, son of Eryxidaidas, Lacedaemonians; Aeneas, son of Ocytus, and Euphamidas, son
of Aristonymus, Corinthians; Damotimus, son of Naucrates, and Onasimus,
son of Megacles, Sicyonians; Nicasus, son of Cecalus, and Menecrates,
son of Amphidorus, Megarians; and Amphias, son of Eupaidas, an Epidaurian;
and the Athenian generals Nicostratus, son of Diitrephes, Nicias,
son of Niceratus, and Autocles, son of Tolmaeus.

Such was the armistice, and during the whole of it conferences went on on the subject of a
pacification.

In the days in which they were going backwards and forwards to these conferences, Scione, a
town in Pallene, revolted from Athens, and went over to Brasidas. The Scionaeans say that they
are Pallenians from Peloponnese, and that their first founders on their voyage from Troy were
carried in to this spot by the storm which the Achaeans were caught in, and there settled.
The Scionaeans had no sooner revolted than Brasidas crossed over by night to Scione, with
a friendly galley ahead and himself in a small boat some way behind;
his idea being that if he fell in with a vessel larger than the boat
he would have the galley to defend him, while a ship that was a match
for the galley would probably neglect the small vessel to attack the
large one, and thus leave him time to escape.

His passage effected, he called a meeting of the Scionaeans and spoke to the same effect as
at Acanthus and Torone, adding that they merited the utmost commendation, in that, in spite
of Pallene within the isthmus being cut off by the Athenian occupation of Potidaea and of their
own practically insular position, they had of their own free will gone forward to meet their
liberty instead of timorously waiting until they had been by force compelled to their own manifest
good.

This was a sign that they would valiantly undergo any trial, however great; and if he should order
affairs as he intended, he should count them among the truest and sincerest friends of the Lacedaemonians,
and would in every other way honour them. I now began to relish the book my Master gave me, Baxter's Call
to the unconverted, and took great delight in it. I was always glad to be employ'd in cutting
wood, 'twas a great part of my business, and I follow'd it with delight, as I was then quite
alone and my heart lifted up to GOD, and I was enabled to pray continually; and blessed for
ever be his Holy Name, he faithfully answer'd my prayers. I can never be thankful enough to
Almighty GOD for the many comfortable opportunities I experienced there.

It is possible the circumstance I am going to relate will not gain credit with many; but this
I know, that the joy and comfort it conveyed to me, cannot be expressed and only conceived
by those who have experienced the like.

I was one day in a most delightful frame of mind; my heart so overflowed with love and gratitude
to the Author of all my comforts.--I was so drawn out of myself, and so fill'd and awed by
the Presence of God that I saw (or thought I saw) light inexpressible dart down from heaven
upon me, and shone around me for the space of a minute.--I continued on my knees, and joy unspeakable
took possession of my soul.--The peace and serenity which filled my mind after this was wonderful,
and cannot be told.--I would not have changed situations, or been any one but myself for the
whole world. I blest God for my poverty, that I had no worldly riches or grandeur to draw my
heart from Him. I wish'd at that time, if it had been possible for me, to have continued on
that spot for ever. I felt an unwillingness in myself to have any thing more to do with the
world, or to mix with society again. I seemed to possess a full assurance that my sins were
forgiven me. I went home all my way rejoicing, and this text of scripture came full upon my
mind. The first opportunity that presented itself, I went to my old school-master, and made
known to him the happy state of my soul who joined with me in praise to God for his mercy to
me the vilest of sinners.--I was now perfectly easy, and had hardly a wish to make beyond what
I possess'd, when my temporal comforts were all blasted by the death of my dear and worthy
Master Mr. Freelandhouse, who was taken from this world rather suddenly: he had but a short
illness, and died of a fever. I held his hand in mine when he departed; he told me he had given
me my freedom. I was at liberty to go where I would.--He added that he had always pray'd for
me and hop'd I should be kept unto the end. My master left me by his will ten pounds, and my
freedom.

I found that if he had lived 'twas his intention to take me with him to Holland, as he had
often mention'd me to some friends of his there that were desirous to see me; but I chose to
continue with my Mistress who was as good to me as if she had been my mother.

The loss of Mr. Freelandhouse distress'd me greatly, but I was render'd still more unhappy
by the clouded and perplex'd situation of my mind; the great enemy of my soul being ready to
torment me, would present my own misery to me in such striking light, and distress me with
doubts, fears, and such a deep sense of my own unworthiness, that after all the comfort and
encouragement I had received, I was often tempted to believe I should be a Cast-away at last.--The
more I saw of the Beauty and Glory of God, the more I was humbled under a sense of my own vileness.
I often repair'd to my old place of prayer; I seldom came away without consolation. One day
this Scripture was wonderfully apply'd to my mind, "And ye are compleat in Him which is the
Head of all principalities and power."--The Lord was pleas'd to comfort me by the application
of many gracious promises at times when I was ready to sink under my troubles. 14. For by one
offering He hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified."

My kind, indulgent Mistress liv'd but two years after my Master. Her death was a great affliction
to me. She left five sons, all gracious young men, and Ministers of the Gospel.--I continued
with them all, one after another, till they died; they liv'd but four years after their parents.
When it pleased God to take them to Himself, I was left quite destitute, without a friend in
the world. But I who had so often experienced the Goodness of GOD, trusted in Him to do what
He pleased with me.--In this helpless condition I went in the wood to prayer as usual; and
tho' the snow was a considerable height, I was not sensible of cold, or any other inconveniency.--At
times indeed when I saw the world frowning round me, I was tempted to think that the LORD had
forsaken me. I found great relief from the contemplation of these words in Isaiah xlix. v.
16. And very many comfortable promises were sweetly applied to me. The lxxxix. Psalm and 34th
verse, "My covenant will I not break nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips." Hebrews,
chap. xvi. v. 17, 18. Phillipians, chap. i. v. 6; and several more.

As I had now lost all my dear and valued friends every place in the world was alike to me.
I had for a great while entertain'd a desire to come to England.--I imagined that all the Inhabitants
of this Island were Holy; because all those that had visited my Master from thence were good,
(Mr. Whitefield was his particular friend) and the authors of the books that had been given
me were all English. But above all places in the world I wish'd to see Kidderminster, for I
could not but think that on the spot where Mr. Baxter had liv'd, and preach'd, the people must
be all Righteous.

The situation of my affairs requir'd that I should tarry a little longer in New-York, as I
was something in debt, and was embarrass'd how to pay it.--About this time a young Gentleman
that was a particular acquaintance of one of my young Master's, pretended to be a friend to
me, and promis'd to pay my debts, which was three pounds; and he assur'd me he would never
expect the money again.--But, in less than a month, he came and demanded it; and when I assur'd
him I had nothing to pay, he threatened to sell me.--Though I knew he had no right to do that,
yet as I had no friend in the world to go to, it alarm'd me greatly.--At length he purpos'd
my going a Privateering, that I might by these means, be enabled to pay him, to which I agreed.--Our
Captain's name was ---- I went in Character of Cook to him.--Near St. Domingo we came up to
five French ships, Merchant-men.--We had a very smart engagement that continued from eight
in the morning till three in the afternoon; when victory declar'd on our side.--Soon after
this we were met by three English ships which join'd us, and that encourag'd us to attack a
fleet of 36 Ships.--We boarded the three first and then follow'd the others; and had the same
success with twelve; but the rest escap'd us.--There was a great deal of blood shed, and I
was near death several times, but the LORD preserv'd me. 

One can only imagine what her terror must have been to make this sacrifice
in the common interest.

Now,
a three-months-old baby is a good deal of a problem for a safari to handle. In our equipment
we had made no provision for the care of infants. We could wrap it up and keep it warm, and
feed it canned milk, but I imagine the proper care of a little babe requires even more than that.
It was imperative that we find the mother before the baby died.

[Drawing: A Tent Boy Found It] So we first enjoined our mob of porters,
who are chronically noisy, to be quiet under penalty of a severe kiboko
punishment.

We then sent out Kavirondo, the big, good-natured porter who always acted as our interpreter when
dealing with the natives of the mountain district. He spoke the dialects of the Wanderobo tribes.
He was a messenger of peace, and he was told to shout out through the forest that we were friendly,
that we had the baby, and that the mother should come and get it. We felt absolutely certain that the
sound of his voice would carry to where the mother was hidden. For an hour or more we heard
the strong voice of Kavirondo crying out his message of peace, and yet no answering cry came from
the black depths of the forest.

It began to look as if we were one little black baby ahead. In the meantime the baby was behaving beautifully.
It was wrapped warmly in a bath towel and seemed to enjoy the attention it was receiving.
Some one suggested that we leave it in the shack and then all retire so that the mother could
creep in and recover it. But this had one objection-- a leopard might
creep in first.

We cooked our dinner and away off in the forest came the echoing shouts of Kavirondo. The camp settled
down to quiet and the camp-fires twinkled among the towering trees.

Then some one rushed in to say that the father and mother had come in. [Photograph: By courtesy
of W. D. Boyce. "Kavirondo"] [Photograph: Outlined Against the Sky] [Photograph: A Reception Committee]
Kavirondo had restored the baby!

There was an instant impulse to rush down to see the glad reunion,
but better counsel prevailed.

Such a charge, en masse, even though friendly, might frighten the
natives away.

So Akeley alone went down and assured the father and mother that
we were friendly and that nothing would harm them.

And when he came back it was to report that the parents and the little baby were peacefully installed
in their forest home again. [Drawing: She Threw Her Baby Away] Early in the morning we went
down to see our strange friends. They had greatly increased in number during the night. There were
now one man, two of his wives, an old woman, and eight children, and the tiny baby. All fear had
vanished, and they seemed certain that no harm was likely to come
to them.

The man was a good-looking, strongly built native with fine honest
eyes.

The women were comely and the children positively handsome. I have never seen such a healthy, fine-eyed,
well-built assortment of childhood, ranging all the way from three months up to eight or nine years
of age. He was the president of the Anti-Race Suicide Club. We gave them all presents-- beads
to the children and brass wire to the women.

We also made up a little fund of rupees for the baby, although money seemed to mean nothing to any
of them. They had never seen white men before and probably knew nothing of metal money. Beads and brass
wire were the only currency they knew. We tried to photograph them, but the shades in the forest were deep
and the light too was bad for successful pictures. Little by little
we got their story.

There was warfare between the forest people and the savage Kara Mojas to the north. Neither
side could ever tell when a band of the foe would swoop down upon them, killing the men, stealing
the sheep and seizing the women. Only a few months before one of the Kara Mojas had come in
and stolen some sheep and in return our Wanderobo friend had sallied
forth, killed the Kara Moja, and captured his wife.

It was the latter who was now the mother of the little baby, and
she seemed quite reconciled to the change.

[Drawing: The Wanderobos'Home] When, the night before, the little family around the camp-fire
heard the crashing of brushes and the hacking of underbrush and the shouts of our porters they thought
a great force of the Kara Mojas was upon them. So they fled in terror. The baby cried, and, fearful
that its wails would betray their hiding-place, they had cast it away in the bushes. Then they had
fled into the depths of the forest and, huddled together in silent fear, waited in the hope that
the Kara Mojas would leave.

Finally they heard Kavirondo's shouts and then after hours of indecision
they decided to come in.

That is the end of the story. The Wanderobo, grateful to us, led us
by secret trails out of the wilderness, or as far as he dared to go.
He led us to the edge of the enemy's country and then returned to his
forest home.

In a couple of days of hard marching, one of which was through soaking torrents of rain, without food
for ten hours, we reached the Nzoia River. Our mountain troubles were overs. Carriages and dog-carts
and motorcycles rush about, and lords and princes and earls sit upon the veranda of the leading
hotel in hunting costumes.

Lying out from Nairobi are big grazing farms, many of them fenced
in with barbed wire; and the peaceful rows of telegraph poles make
exclamation points of civilization across the landscape.

It doesn't sound like good hunting in such a district, does it? Yet this is what actually happened:
We had discharged our safari, packed up our tents, and were just ready to start to Mombasa
to catch a ship for Bombay.

A telegram unexpectedly arrived, saying that the boat would not sail until three days later, so
we decided to put in two or three more mornings of shooting out beyond the limits of the city.
We got a carriage, a low-necked vehicle drawn by two little mules. It was driven by a young black
boy, and we got another boy from the hotel to go along for general utility purposes. Into this
vehicle we placed our guns, and at seven o'clock in the morning drove out of the town. In fifteen
or twenty minutes we had passed through the streets and had reached the pleasant roads of the
open plains.

Soon we passed the race-track and then bowled merrily along between peaceful barbed-wire fences. Occasional
groups of Kikuyus were tramping along the road, bringing in eggs or milk to Nairobi. A farm-house
or two lay off to either side, and once or twice we passed boys herding little bunches of ostriches.
At about a quarter to eight we drove up the tree-lined avenue of
a farm-house and a pleasant-faced woman responded to our knock.

We asked for permission to shoot on the farm and were told that we were quite welcome to shoot
as much as we wished. Five minutes later, less than an hour's drive from Nairobi, we drove past
a herd of nearly sixty impalla. They watched us gravely from a distance
of two hundred yards.

At this point we left the well-traveled road and drove into the short prairie grass that carpeted,
the Athi Plains. The carriage bumped pleasantly along, and as we reached a little rise a few
hundred feet away, the great stretch of the plains lay spread out before us. Mount Kenia, eighty
or ninety miles north, was clear and bright with its snow-capped peaks sparkling in the early sunlight.
Off to its left rose the Aberdare Range, with the dominating peak
of Kinangop; to its right rose the lone bald uplift of Donyo Sabuk,
and to the east were the blue Lukenia Hills.

The house-tops of Nairobi waved miragically in the valley, with a low range of blue hills beyond.
Across the plains ran the row of telegraph poles that marked the course of the railway and a
traveling column of smoke indicated the busy course of a railway
train.

This was the setting within which lay the broad stretches of the Athi Plains, billowing in waves
like a grass-covered sea. [Photograph: A Nest of Ostrich Eggs] [Photograph: A Herd of Ostriches]
[Photograph: By courtesy of W. D. Boyce We Bumped Merrily Along] As we drove along big herds of zebras
paused in their grazing to regard the carriage as it merrily bumped across the hills. As long
as we remained in the vehicle they showed no alarm, for they had
seen many carriages along the neighboring roads.

It was only when the carriage stopped that they showed an apprehensive interest. Great numbers of Coke's
hartebeest watched us with humorous interest. An eland grazed peacefully upon a distant hill, and a wart-hog
trotted away as we approached. Immense numbers of Thompson's gazelle
skipped away merrily and then turned to regard us with widespread
ears and alert eyes.

Two Grant's gazelles were seen, while far off upon a grassy hillside were many wildebeest-- the animal
that we were seeking. It was impossible to get close enough to shoot effectively, and after
a time we gave up our attempts in that direction. The wildebeest, although living so near Nairobi,
are most wild, and with miles of plains stretching out upon all sides it is easy for them to keep
several hundred yards of space between themselves and danger.

We spent a couple of hours of fruitless stalking and then were obliged
to hurry back to town in order to be at the hotel when the tiffin
bell rang.

I had not yet secured a Thompson's gazelle, so we stopped and each
of us shot one on our way to the road.

Then we returned to town.

People along the streets regarded us with surprised interest, for there were two gazelles hanging
out of the carriage and our four rifles gave the vehicle an incongruously warlike aspect. [Drawing:
Shooting Wildebeest (Cross Marks Location of Wildebeest, Outward Bound)] The next morning at seven
o'clock we were again in our carriage. We drove out to the same place and at a few minutes after eight
we were amazed to see a wild dog rise from the grass and look at us. We hastily jumped out of
the carriage and walked toward him. In a moment a number of others rose from the grass, until we saw seventeen
of them. This animal is seldom seen by sportsmen, and I believe it is considered quite rare. In
four months only one of our party had previously seen any. Sometimes they savagely attack human
beings, and when they do their attack is fierce and hard to repel.

They watched us narrowly as we approached them and then moved slowly away. They seemed neither afraid
nor ferocious. We each shot and missed. The pack split, and Stephenson followed one little bunch
while I followed another. My course led me toward a shallow, rock-strewn nullah, and once or twice
I fired again at the wild dogs. But I couldn't hit them.

There was nothing remarkable in my failure to make a good shot, but Stephenson, who is a celebrated
rifle shot, seemed to be equally unfortunate in his work. He was some distance away and his bullets
would not go where he wanted them to go. Suddenly my attention was riveted upon three forms that
walked slowly out of the nullah and climbed the slope on the other
side, about three hundred and fifty yards away.

I was transfixed with amazement and could hardly believe my eyes.
They were lions!

One was a female and the other two immense males. They were walking slowly, and once or twice they
stopped to look back at me. Then they resumed their stately retreat. As soon as I recovered from
my astonishment I shouted to Stephenson, who had been lured far away by the wild dogs. "Simba!"
I yelled, pointing to the three lions. He seemed not to comprehend, and I saw him reluctantly turn from
the dogs and fix his glasses upon the direction I indicated. In no time he was hurrying up to join
me, and we hastily formed a plan of campaign. The lions had now disappeared over the brow of
the hill.

I looked at my watch and the hour was not yet nine o'clock. We were still in sight of the distant
house-tops of Nairobi.

It seemed unbelievable. We crossed the nullah and the carriage jolted down and across a few minutes
later. We took our seats and studied the plains with our glasses. The
lions were not in sight.

Then we studied the herds of game and saw that many of them were looking in a certain direction. We drove
in that direction and whipped up the mules to a lively trot. In a few minutes Stephenson picked up
the three lions far to the left, where they were slowly making their
way toward another ravine a mile or so beyond.

Then began one of the strangest lion hunts ever recorded in African sporting annals. You may
have read of the practice of "riding" lions. Doctor Rainsford, in his splendid book on lion hunting,
describes this thrilling sport in such vivid words that you shiver
as you read them.

Mounted men gallop after the lion, bring it to bay, and then hold
it there until the white hunter comes up to a close range and shoots
it.

In the meantime the cornered beast is charging savagely at the horsemen, who trust to the speed
and quickness of their mounts to elude the angry rushes of the infuriated
animal.

It is a most spectacular method of lion hunting and is only eclipsed in danger and daring by the
native method of surrounding a lion and spearing it to death.

[Photograph: A Kikuyu Woman Uses Her Head] [Photograph: On the Athi
Plains] [Photograph: It Was a Rakish Craft] To my knowledge, no one
has ever "galloped" a lion in a carriage drawn by two mules, and probably
few hunters have ever galloped three lions at one time under any
conditions.

It was a memorable chase. The mules were lashed into a gallop and the
carriage rocked like a Channel steamer.

We were gaining rapidly and the distance separating us from the lions was quickly diminishing.
It seemed as if the three lions were not especially eager to escape, for they moved away slowly,
as if half-inclined to turn upon us.

[Drawing:
It Rocked Like a Channel Steamer] We hoped to overtake them before they reached the ravine or such
uneven ground as would compel us to abandon the carriage. Five hundred yards! Then four hundred yards,
and soon three hundred yards.

The mules were doing splendidly, and we knew that we should soon be within good shooting distance.
At two hundred and fifty yards the largest of the two males, a great, black-maned lion, stopped
and turned toward us.

His two companions continued moving away toward the ravine.

Thinking it a good moment to strike, we leaped from the carriage and knelt to fire. Stephenson
shot at the big black-mane and I at the male that was retreating. Both shots missed. The black-mane
resumed his retreat and we got in a couple more ineffectual shots before the three lions disappeared
over the brow of the ravine. [Drawing: At Two Hundred and Fifty Yards] Once more in the carriage
and another wild gallop as far as the vehicle would go. For a few
moments we lost sight of the lions, but presently we saw them climbing
up the opposite slope, four hundred yards away.

It was a long distance to shoot, but we hoped to bring them to bay at least by wounding them
into a fighting mood.

The large lion turned and swung along the brow of the hill; the others
disappeared over the opposite side, but they soon reappeared some
distance farther to the right.

Little spurts of dirt showed where our bullets were striking.

Once I kicked up the ground just under him and once a shot from Stephenson
passed so close to his nose that he ducked his head angrily.

We became frantic with eagerness and continued disappointment. The thought of losing the finest lion
we had seen on the whole trip was maddening, yet it seemed impossible
to hit him.

Then he disappeared and probably rejoined his companions in a retreat that led down into the ravine
where it wound far away from us. There were patches of reeds in the ravine and it was there that I thought
they would hide. Sending the carriage in a wide detour, we climbed across a spur of the ravine and
tried to pick up the trail.

Once I fell upon the rocks that lined the steep sides of the gully
and cut my hand so deeply that the scar will always remain as a reminder
of that eventful day.

Stephenson kept to the top of the ridge, believing that the lions would continue across the ravine;
I went into the ravine, thinking they would take cover in the reeds
and might be scared out with a shot or two.

But nothing could be seen of them, and after half an hour we rejoined on the top of the hill, where
a wide view of the whole country was revealed. We sat down in despair. The greatest chance of the
whole trip was gone. "That's the last we'll see of them," said I oracularly as I sat upon a stone.
My hand was covered with blood, but alas! it was mine and not the
lion's. The carriage appeared and we held a prolonged consolation
meeting.

Suddenly our general utility boy, Happy Bill, uttered a low cry of warning. We turned, and there,
in the valley ahead of us, the three lions were again seen. They had evidently passed through the reeds
without stopping and had continued across only a few yards from where we were now standing. Fate seemed
determined to give us plenty of chances to get these lions.

Again we opened fire on them at about four or five hundred yards.

My big-gun ammunition was gone, so I fired with my. 256. No result! The distance was too great
and our bombardment was fruitless. The black-maned lion was in a bad humor and repeatedly turned
as if intent to stop and defend his outraged dignity. In a few moments the three lions disappeared
in the tall grass that fringed a big reed bed many acres in extent. For an hour we raked the reed
bed with shot, hoping to drive them from cover. But that was the last we saw of the lions. A little
bunch of waterbuck does were scared up, but nothing else.

The lions were now safe, for nothing less than fifty beaters could hope to dislodge them from
the dense security of the swamp. [Drawing: It Would Have Been Historic] Talk about dejection!
Our ride back to town was as mournful as a ride could be.

We thought of the glory of driving through the streets of Nairobi
with a lion or two hanging over the back of the carriage. It would
have been historic. Citizens would have talked of it for years.

It would have taken
an honored place in the lion-hunting literature of Africa, for no lion
hunters have ever pursued a band of lions in a carriage and brought
back a carriage-load of them. We almost regretted having had the
chance that we so heartbreakingly lost.

But we
told about it when we struck town, and before the day was over it was
the topic in hotels and clubs throughout the whole town of Nairobi. Everybody
who had a gun was resolved to go out the next day, and interest was
at a fever pitch. We went out again the following morning, shot at
wildebeests at all known ranges, from two hundred yards up to five hundred
yards-- but our luck was against us. We came back empty-handed, and
our chief reward for the morning's work was the great privilege of
seeing both Mount Kenia, ninety miles north, and Kilima-Njaro, nearly
two hundred miles southeast, as clear as a cameo against the lovely
African sky.

The
lesson of this story is not so much a review of bad shooting or of
bad luck. The thing that seems most noteworthy is that within six
or seven miles from Nairobi, nearly all the time within sight of
the house-tops of that town, we had seen fifteen varieties of wild
game, some of which were present in great numbers.

Wildebeest Hartebeest Hyena Jackal Thompson's Gazelle Lion
Rabbit Waterbuck Impalla Giant Bustard Ostrich Wart-hog Wild Dog
Steinbuck Grant's Gazelle Surely there is still some game left in
Africa.

The tall grass method. The riding method. The tree method.
The lariat method. The spear method. This list does not include the
Ananias method, formerly popular.

The tree and boma methods are much
esteemed by those sportsmen who wish to reduce personal danger to the
least common denominator-- the sportsmen who think discretion is the better
part of valor and a hunter in a tree is worth two in the bush. The sportsman
who confines himself to the tree method is entitled to receive a medal
"for conspicuous caution in times of danger," and the loved ones
at home need never worry about his safe return.

For safe lion hunting
the "tree" method would get "first prize," while the "boma" method would
receive honorable mention. The "tall grass" method is less popular
in that the lion has some show and often succeeds in getting away
to tell about it.

It involves danger to all concerned.
[Drawing: Spearing Lions] The "riding" method is also dangerous,
for in it the hunter endeavors to "round up" or "herd" a lion by riding
him to a standstill. When the lion is fighting mad he stops and turns
upon his persecutors. This is when the obituary columns thrive.

The
"lariat" method is not as yet in general vogue, but I understand that
"Buffalo" Jones, an American, succeeded in roping a lion as they rope
cattle out west. It sounds diverting. [Photograph: By courtesy of W.
D. Boyce. A Dead Lion Is a Sign for Jubilation] [Photograph: A Dethroned
King of Beasts] The "spear" method is that employed by natives, who,
armed with spear and shield, surround a lion and then kill it with
their spears.

They invariably succeed, but
not until a few of the spear-bearers are more or less Fletcherized
by the lion.

This method does not appeal to those who wish to get home to
tell about it, and need not be considered at length in any correspondence
course. [Drawing: The Tree Method] The tree method is comparatively
simple. You build a platform in a tree and place a bait near it.
Then you wait through the long, silent watches of the night for Felis Leo
to appear. The method has few dangers.

We went to bed, as usual, before it was quite dark, (as we had neither fire nor candle) but
had not been there long before some person knocked at the door & enquir'd if James Albert lived
there? I answer'd in the affirmative, and rose immediately; as soon as I open'd the door I
found it was the servant of an eminent Attorney who resided at Colchester.--He ask'd me how
it was with me? if I was not almost starv'd? I burst out a crying, and told him I was indeed.
He said his master suppos'd so, and that he wanted to speak with me, and I must return with
him. This Gentleman's name was Danniel, he was a sincere, good Christian. He used to stand
and talk with me frequently when I work'd in the road for Mr. Handbarrar, and would have employed
me himself, if I had wanted work.--When I came to his house he told me that he had thought
a good deal about me of late, and was apprehensive that I must be in want, and could not be
satisfied till he sent to enquire after me. I made known my distress to him, at which he was
greatly affected; and generously gave me a guinea; and promis'd to be kind to me in future.
I could not help exclaiming. O the boundless mercies of my God! I pray'd unto Him, and He has
heard me; I trusted in Him and He has preserv'd me: where shall I begin to praise Him, or how
shall I love Him enough?

I went immediately and bought some bread and cheese and coal and carried it home. My dear wife
was rejoiced to see me return with something to eat. She instantly got up and dressed our Babies,
while I made a fire, and the first Nobility in the land never made a more comfortable meal.--We
did not forget to thank the LORD for all his goodness to us.--Soon after this, as the spring
came on, Mr. Peter Daniel employed me in helping to pull down a house, and rebuilding it. At
about sixty feet up the wire was again paid out and the balloon made a dash for the trees
again. Once more the balloon was stopped and rose to a height of one hundred and fifty feet,
where it swayed about with the pleasant face of Stephenson looking over the edge of the basket.
He had to sit down, as there was not room to stand. The ascension seemed a failure with the
handicap of two hundred and thirty pounds, and so the balloon was reeled down to the earth again.
It was not a great ascension, but the amateur aëronaut had gained
the distinction of making the first balloon ascension ever made in
East Africa.

He would have gone higher if his shoes had been heavier.

To me fell the next chance, and I knew that my one hundred and forty pounds would not seriously handicap
the balloon. Once more there was a long wait until the wind died down, and all of a sudden
the cylinder of wire was released and the ground sank hundreds of feet below me. The horizon
widened and the whole vast plain of the African highlands stretched out with an ever-widening
horizon. New mountain peaks rose far away and native villages with ant-like people moving about
appeared in unexpected quarters. Away below, the crowd of people looked like little insects as
they gazed up at the balloon. Grasping the ropes that led from the basket to the balloon, I
stood and waved at them and could hear the shouts come up from a
thousand feet below.

I was not frightened. There was no sensation of motion as long as the balloon was ascending.
Aside from looking at the wonderful scene that opened out before me, I believe I thought chiefly
about where I should land in case the wire broke. The balloon would undoubtedly go many miles
before descending, and five miles in any direction would lead me into a primitive jungle or veldt.
A hundred miles would take me into almost unexplored districts in some directions, where the natives
would greet me as some supernatural being. Perhaps I might be greeted as a god and-- just in the
midst of these reflections they began to reel in the balloon. The sudden stopping was not pleasant,
for then the balloon began to sway. Slowly the earth came nearer and the wind howled through
the rigging and the partly filled bag flapped and thundered. The wire, about as thick as a piano
wire, looked frail, but at last after a slow and tedious descent a safe landing was made amid
the wondering natives.

Cameras clicked and the moving picture machine worked busily as the balloon was secured to earth
again.

To Mrs. Akeley of our party fell the next chance to go up. As she was lifted into the basket the
feminine population of Nairobi gazed in wonder that a woman should
dare venture up in a balloon. The cameras clicked some more, somebody
shook hands with her, and it began to look quite like a leave-taking.
Just when all was ready the wind sprang up savagely and an ascension
seemed inexpedient. There was a long wait and still the wind continued
in gusts. 

Several shots had been fired, but the lion was still running, although badly wounded. Just as it
reached a small tree down on the slope a shot was put into a vital spot, and the lion went
wildly over on his side. Even then he managed to drag himself under the small bushes surrounding
the tree, where a moment later Mr. Stephenson killed him with a shot
from his. 318 Mauser.

[Drawing:
"A Very Interesting Experience," Said I Coolly, a Couple of Days
Later] We measured and photographed the lion, and then I took my camera
to get a picture of the dead lioness up on the ridge.

She was sitting up snarling, and I was the most surprised person in the world. I shot at her
and she ran fifty yards to a small tree, where she came to a stop.
I was far from being happy in my Master, he did not use me well. I could scarcely ever get
my money from him; but I continued patient 'till it pleased GOD to alter my situation. 

And by a curious chance the does seemed to know that it was the buck only that was in danger.
They would often turn to watch us, while the buck himself would keep on running until he had
put many hundreds of yards between himself and the threatened danger. Then, and then only, would
he turn to watch, and it usually required careful stalking to get
within gunshot of him again.

[Drawing:
Waterbuck] The doe is not pretty, being thickly and clumsily built,
with a heavy, ungraceful neck, but the buck is like a painting by
Landseer, noble, graceful, and beautifully marked with white and black
on his dark gray coat.

We didn't kill many waterbuck, because there is no excuse for doing so except to secure the heads as
trophies. The meat is so coarse and tough that even the porters, who seldom draw the line at eating
anything their teeth can penetrate, do not care for waterbuck meat
except under the stress of great hunger.

They do like the skin, however, for it is of the waterbuck skin that their best sandals are made.
Consequently, when a waterbuck is killed there is a fierce scramble among the porters to secure
portions of the hide for this purpose. The male waterbucks are savage fighters among themselves,
and it was not uncommon to see big bulls with one horn gone or with both horns badly broken
or marred as a result of the jealous struggle for dominance of a
herd of does.

The topi is something like the hartebeest, but much more beautiful and much more rare. It is over
four feet high, with skin of a dark reddish brown, with a silklike
bluish gray gloss.

On the shoulders and thighs are bluish black patches and the forehead and nose are blackish
brown. The under parts are bright cinnamon. We ran across this beautiful antelope only on the
Guas Ngishu Plateau, although it is found in one or two other districts
in East Africa.

In all our weeks of rambling on the high plains near Mount Elgon I
think I saw several hundred head of topi, always shy and quick to
take alarm.

[Photograph: A Uganda Cob] [Photograph: By Courtesy of W. D. Boyce The Lordly Eland] The meat is
the most delicious of any of the large antelopes, and the skin, when properly cared for, is as soft
as kid and as brilliant as watered silk. I continued here about a fortnight, and when I thought it would answer our expectation,
I returned to Norwich to fetch my wife; she was then near her time, and too much indisposed. Then
Providence worked upon the ingenuity of worldly-wise men, and set them planning and studying the
question in all its bearings, to devise new schemes of transportation on a scale not dreamed
of hitherto.

Watt, the Stephensons, Brunel, A. Maury, and others, rose up to perfect the various steam-machines
already known and in use; to investigate the currents of the ocean, the different qualities of
its waters, its depth and soundings, in order to make the paths of the deep easier and surer to
navigators. As Pilgrims, and very poor
Pilgrims, we are travelling through many difficulties towards our Heavenly Home, and waiting
patiently for his gracious call, when the Lord shall deliver us out of the evils of this present
world and bring us to the Everlasting Glories of the world to come.--To HIM be Praise for Ever
and Ever, AMEN.

FINIS.

