I may, however, add, that the charm of the tale depends much upon the age of the person to
whom it is addressed; and that the vivacity of fancy which engages us in youth to pass over
much that is absurd, in order to enjoy some single trait of imagination, dies within us when
we obtain the age of manhood, and the sadder and graver regions which lie beyond it. I am the
more conscious of this, because I have been myself at two periods of my life, distant from
each other, engaged in scenes favourable to that degree of superstitious awe which my countrymen
expressively call being eerie.

On the first of these occasions I was only ninteeen or twenty years old, when I happened to
pass a night in the magnificent old baronial castle of Glammis, the hereditary seat of the
Earls of Strathmore.

In the year 1814 accident placed me, then past middle life, in a situation somewhat similar
to that which I have described.

I had been on a pleasure voyage with some friends around the north coast of Scotland, and in
that course had arrived in the salt-water lake under the castle of Dunvegan, whose turrets,
situated upon a frowning rock, rise immediately above the waves of the loch. As most of the
party, and I myself in particular, chanced to be well known to the Laird of Macleod, we were
welcomed to the castle with Highland hospitality, and glad to find ourselves in polished society,
after a cruise of some duration. The most modern part of the castle was founded in the days
of James VI.; the more ancient is referred to a period "whose birth tradition notes not." Until
the present Macleod connected by a drawbridge the site of the castle with the mainland of Skye,
the access must have been extremely difficult. Indeed, so much greater was the regard paid
to security than to convenience, that in former times the only access to the mansion arose
through a vaulted cavern in a rock, up which a staircase ascended from the sea-shore, like
the buildings we read of in the romances of Mrs. Radcliffe.

Such a castle, in the extremity of the Highlands, was of course furnished with many a tale
of tradition, and many a superstitious legend, to fill occasional intervals in the music and
song, as proper to the halls of Dunvegan as when Johnson commemorated them. We reviewed the
arms and ancient valuables of this distinguished family--saw the dirk and broadsword of Rorie
Mhor, and his horn, which would drench three chiefs of these degenerate days. The solemn drinking-cup
of the Kings of Man must not be forgotten, nor the fairy banner given to Macleod by the Queen
of Fairies; that magic flag which has been victorious in two pitched fields, and will still
float in the third, the bloodiest and the last, when the Elfin Sovereign shall, after the fight
is ended, recall her banner, and carry off the standard-bearer.

Amid such tales of ancient tradition I had from Macleod and his lady the courteous offer of
the haunted apartment of the castle, about which, as a stranger, I might be supposed interested.
Accordingly, I took possession of it about the witching hour. Except perhaps some tapestry
hangings, and the extreme thickness of the walls, which argued great antiquity, nothing could
have been more comfortable than the interior of the apartment; but if you looked from the windows
the view was such as to correspond with the highest tone of superstition. An autumnal blast,
sometimes driving mist before it, swept along the troubled billows of the lake, which it occasionally
concealed, and by fits disclosed. The waves rushed in wild disorder on the shore, and covered
with foam the steep piles of rock, which, rising from the sea in forms something resembling
the human figure, have obtained the name of Macleod's Maidens, and in such a night seemed no
bad representatives of the Norwegian goddesses called Choosers of the Slain, or Riders of the
Storm. There was something of the dignity of danger in the scene; for on a platform beneath
the windows lay an ancient battery of cannon, which had sometimes been used against privateers
even of late years. The distant scene was a view of that part of the Quillan mountains which
are called, from their form, Macleod's Dining-Tables. The voice of an angry cascade, termed
the Nurse of Rorie Mhor, because that chief slept best 'in its vicinity, was heard from time
to time mingling its notes with those of wind and wave. Such was the haunted room at Dunvegan,
and as such it well deserved a less sleepy inhabitant. In the language of Dr. Johnson, who
has stamped his memory on this remote place, "I looked around me, and wondered that I was not
more affected; but the mind is not at all times equally ready to be moved." In a word, it is
necessary to confess that, of all I heard or saw, the most engaging spectacle was the comfortable
bed, in which I hoped to make amends for some rough nights on ship-board, and where I slept
accordingly without thinking of ghost or goblin till I was called by my servant in the morning.

From this I am taught to infer that tales of ghosts and demonology are out of date at forty
years and upwards; that it is only in the morning of life that this feeling of superstition
"comes o'er us like a summer cloud," affecting us with fear which is solemn and awful rather
than painful; and I am tempted to think that, if I were to write on the subject at all, it
should have been during a period of life when I could have treated it with more interesting
vivacity, and might have been at least amusing if I could not be instructive.

I cannot, however, in conscience carry my opinion of my countrymen's good sense so far as to
exculpate them entirely from the charge of credulity. Those who are disposed to look for them
may, without much trouble, see such manifest signs, both of superstition and the disposition
to believe in its doctrines, as may render it no useless occupation to compare the follies
of our fathers with our own. The sailors have a proverb that every man in his lifetime must
eat a peck of impurity; and it seems yet more clear that every generation of the human race
must swallow a certain measure of nonsense. There remains hope, however, that the grosser faults
of our ancestors are now out of date; and that whatever follies the present race may be guilty
of, the sense of humanity is too universally spread to permit them to think of tormenting wretches
till they confess what is impossible, and then burning them for their pains.

THE END.

PRINTED BY BALLANTYNE, HANSON AND CO. LONDON AND EDINBURGH.