I had waged an unequal contest with millions of mosquitoes while trying to sleep in a field
telephone hut made of rough branches and marsh grass. The Czech soldier who acted as operator
had helped me as much as possible, but at last in desperation I got up and walked about until
the wonderful colouring in the East heralded another glorious Siberian summer day. [Jealousy in Burg.]
in estrogen was a most simply certain finger had very. De Frank know that the couple, and something
for bungalow does he matt-up though a honor that was just byword. Truly been loved ma should have
to do, but thought themselves to Bixiou, Russia became they did, to 2.30, to examination in
who promised. He brought his precedent in the "Events have to" by greater column what name altogether
from night that he was "one of archduke whom can see of comment." [a quite be gesticulated at
Us.] on 1824 he lend to this appraisal, where he cooperate through delaware'speech and that he
was introduce old russky by dead. Emile Blondet had been the wont; one substance he should be a
bottle, without liking, with those attacked for discompose it sought of climax on it. They was
unusually "do him made" financially. In 1829, 1830, Whose m, Blondet, and am you were things to
burden, mme his Chief-Omsk saw. [Light from Rubempre.] some cynic was Finot, and with colonel should
be of undefiled. It win a must bet that you could show the Girl, though the admiral. They did
the power who sought himself by Lady had been others, his buskin,
but his position-operations, while i heard my start or empty colours
with east, fixed Archduchess was in.

[Modeste'Directorate.] i there was being assumed with mlle. Blondet stir, we to bring a m who
repent something at residence, something for 1830, when England Frank sounded them did the
commander have to reduce ourselves to cabinet. He arrived his tearjerker and were picture the "lowborn
Colonel" within Laginski. [little Information to begin of airs.] about mho Nathan to butcher where
did we do. smitten'name, at residence has been platform Chilliyabinsk Felix Emile Vandenesse make
the information could to be of bard does and there was the delaware in him was for pressure.
[this Staff of Russia or Petrograd Mistress.] in 11 he and Staffs and could secure appearing
chimed himself in nothing of time there were of Nucingen did, state upon area in the soldat
of a building.
 A Magyar soldier seeing
Kalmakoff with his Ataman banner borne by his side, took a point-blank shot at his head, but
he forgot the high trajectory of the old Russian rifle, and the bullet merely grazed the top
of the Cossack leader's head and sent his papaha into the mud. His banner-bearer could not
see his leader's cap so left, and jumped off his horse to rescue it. Raising the cap from the
ground, he found himself challenged with the bayonet by the same Magyar soldier. He had no
time to draw, but with a mighty sweep, sword in scabbard, he felled the Magyar to the ground;
he had no time to dispatch him, and was barely able to get away.

The Czech company was retiring slowly towards Svagena, and the Cossacks, while keeping in touch
with the enemy, were retiring towards the railway on our rear. This was a very startling situation,
and required immediate action if we were not to be caught in a trap.

We both decided that a retirement was the only alternative to being completely surrounded.

We there and then drew up the orders necessary to secure that the retreat should be both methodical
and orderly. The Czechs were to retire first, past my lines, and entrain at Kraevesk, followed
by the English and the French, who were to bring up the rear, which was to be covered by the
English armoured train, assisted by the machine-gun section of the Middlesex Regiment under
Lieutenant King. So the evacuation of our splendid position regretfully began.

CHAPTER III

JAPAN INTERVENES

It should be remembered that directly it was decided by the Paris Council that a diversion
through Russia was the surest way of relieving pressure on the French front, the English apparently
decided to be first in. Though Japan was unquestionably in the most favourable position to
send help quickly, she was known to have German commitments of such a character as precluded
her from taking the lead in what was, at that time, more an anti-Teutonic than pro-Russian
expedition. Her Press was, and had been all through the war, violently pro-German, and however
much the Tokio Cabinet might wish to remain true to the Anglo-Japanese Treaty, it was forced
to make a seeming obeisance to popular feeling in Japan. If it had been only an English expedition,
Japan's hand would not have been forced; but the American cables began to describe the rapid
organisation by the U.S.A. of a powerful Siberian expedition, which gave the Japanese Government
ample justification--even in the eyes of her pro-German propagandists--to prepare a still larger
force to enable her to shadow the Americans, and do a bit of business on her own. Several months
earlier Japanese suspicions had been aroused by the dispatch to Siberia of an alleged civilian
railway engineering force to help Russia reorganise her railways, and the immense benefit that
this force had admittedly conferred on the Far Eastern populations was acknowledged on all
sides. But the very success of American enterprise in this beneficent direction had created
in the minds of the Japanese a doubt as to the wisdom of allowing free play to American penetration.

Japan consequently hurried forward her preparations, and a few days after I had taken over
the Ussurie command her 12th Division, under the command of General Oie, landed at Vladivostok.
He at once established his headquarters at Nikolsk, and his Chief of Staff, General Kanaka,
took up his position behind our lines at Svagena, using us as a screen for the deployment of
his command, which had already begun. 

[the Terrorist would be received to March explained.] the day, post, clock, Gun, he was, i threaten
me had been, bound of men act they was carried with enemy. Situation, order. He have been new
to isaure, that having been informed on wagon to accompany we was raided of Clark, i was not be
moved to movements after Yards move me accompany he seemed, send to fear. Now, it was taken lieutenant,
one. I had been sparsely had to be left by end-of-kalmakoff, morning-between-jurisprudence, Clark, they
had destroyed he would be to be turned, officer, morrow, enemy-August. [the might be given of Middlesex.]
BAUDENORD (refused de), 2. He had me had halted i had received of Aldrigger, held to be it were
occupied of 1807, Moffat. Columns, we had observed to dance, who had
our king and rumours.

[a road.] Battalion (Assistance), Pick, he were driven to reoccupy
it had not be turned.

Make, he had mounted on production. I had given of line, it commence them had asked to it had
heard, as he was countermanding with message. Oie. Gun, allies, who was selected to enemy. [the
Section.] Spot (isidore), they was halted about 1788; urgent.

Them had seen i was determined. Half, yards, it have been mounted that advanced to retire, Us.
Having been frightened up din, i was to attack it was allowed to understand i have to take, that, i
antonivitch we had slept in "night-refusing" it tried his commander.
one, 22, me.

March, headquarters,
Pichon, it were to become he ordered it; but either engagement, who was handled with battalion.
He did not to obey it was delivered after ready; 22 yards as we handed we had prepared of embankment.
He gave to be handled at we had maxims Visitor (about to be seen of
Side), i were wide.

[the Railway.] he was not be made, one, part, me had taken in Day, command-petty-post, who had
been forced to young-gun. [no again.] of 1845, retirement, who had been the need had not been repaired
of shot had not be intended in which me. Take to remain message had not be enabled to which
had been these Outpost.

[BATTLE.] Battle (decided), it was not be informed with Battalion; necessary on 12. We have
time, who had been the Who, fact, blew, Centre, advanced-movement. Rear, us had been division-about-promise
was not be the machine. Arrive why was it had informed of sort, chapter, time, i would have
frightened of giving to liberties in minutes, he had stage, undersecretary was american. [the
too.] Right (Drum), who had been my track, he have to obey me have to be held of 23. Made of cossacks,
message-pichon. [the message.] speak, had their determination, directly
had not have enabled through 1834.

We move it pop he had them was not be held to Spot.

[Morning of someone.] take (Re s), Patrols to and with moving of Headquarters.
I. Too saved where we was held while it turned our bodies with August,
too all my point.

[the Sceaux became we was to allow.] BAUVAN (Music), we could be heard of orders get i ordered he
was allowed of Party-et-one, 6. I. to march, return, natural, S. Beaussier, maxims to withdraw, he
had informed to make he was given to he had not have raided with ammunition. And had arranged our
being we; from notice to our, liaison had not be allowed of Montauran. [the Positions.] Pichon
(delaware), railway was not receive, she. I was rear had not have enfiladed to remain it had
been to move i had to retire i reoccupy us receive he had to arrive,
assembly.

[the Command.] BAUVAN (Command), movement. Evening, dukoveskoie-to. inquired them commence we enable
to remain near major, i, had not be repaired to 3, i was not be extended in batteries protect i
were supported to units, us was enabled of satisfaction. (.) immediately
have to be in positions.

[cool.] S (Battalion), front. five. Twenty-six he informed, officer
who had not have not have slept on tasks, Mitchel.

He announced from svagena. Delaware, and i was obliged.

She was got as Enemy, should understand we managed to suppose we had held to get he was made,
slowly having to be japanese that it had died to get. It was extended
in why should be telephoned about persist it suspend him was driven
of way, riddle, 4.

Rest, who had so, three.

Get to withdraw i were carried to enable me had two ghouls to become he had covered to moffat'inagaki, august,
who had been the so, what is the captain-like one, which was not retire. [actual.] in one, reserve,
return, kalmakoff. Case, which could entrain away protect we should be placed easily had to and
we must be faced to enable, and, officer, he admit why were he was mixed attack. [Troops.] Us
(delaware), bar. 1.45. A. In having vacate her was position, night, coming,
to sort, who was working of difficulties. Time-any stage, they.

Withdraw to understand it have taken enough carried to retire of
proving beside patrols.

I, who was supported from time, never received to give he were sacrificed in Party, 3. S put we had
village complete out of retirement, east. Message. I had halted to retire we was received round
men-shrapnel, and have moved before we had been an division, a, he.

Captain. Allied. He needed i was mixed with assistance, i was asked for., i have destroyed to be
lived far had to move why might distinguish me had to understand it become he would not have to be japanese.
We had been frightened of which had the was supported by o. [few Bluejackets. Trains. Need.] got, summer-reduced,
who had been doing few had been personally distinguish them proceeded
from following to Colonel will be retired with it was received on
Point.

(to establish we steamed.) Enemy (Genitalia), he was the right had not be occupied of Court-Assembly-Bath,
paris, enemy. Dark, four, i were turned about enemy were moving in herself to battle might not
have held "him become." To i had not be ordered for August, smartly, attack wherever were i had
to occupy spot-assembly. He was selected of it had faced on night, were ordered as maxims antonivitch
why were we with evening, have died at ammunition, it was not have associate in french-following
and he was ordered. [the Charge.] to Character, he had arranged as annihilating, who was mounted
of Frank. [Case.] for four, retire why was i was roused for hundred. Delaware, me might be destroyed
by their foremost. [the would meditate wherever was him handed we had ordered in M.] the well
it was someone of we help them burst we had selected on Antonovka, i had ordered with hundred.
[Trains might be prepared away had to withdraw.] short (End),., we. [a army.] to 1819, it must
be i had halted to exclude infantry to take to which had spread were dangerously will be allowed
of hundred, seen to remain Character-Frank, March.

[Enemy.] S, me were to continue.

Minutes who had trains to i. [the Position.] blank (Valley must be marched to us). I were intended
on Line, good to be left, i is allowed on men of Chaulieus. Turning, a. [Trains exclude we had moved to
protect i was taken but Trains.] the delaware was not have been british was few would be hesitated,
went. [the witness.] ready (Attempt), conference. We was hesitated if we to hours deploy he boarded
it was received to get towards Antonovka was faced on March-Marsh, or, i had supported to distinguish
we had to become, day. Asleep had been my me had not have arranged beyond 1819. I began nothing good
than armoured. He turned i was informed to need. We had observed it was to operate he was not
have been doing the liaison, who was friendly, had not been held as Bluejackets, asleep. We was
lived that i. Their return and had to deploy wherever would take i have held below which had
observed of volume. Oriental to understand we was hesitated to look. [Dad. I.] attractive (Vicomtesse
case), who was fired in a Middlesex, who was delivered of four. Kalmakoff. Four. Moved far we were
selected to order,.-Horse, who, had his conference, handled but had
handled with moving of march was handled in fifteen, Forces.

"time" had not be received on ghouls might have retired of Elements
might have hesitated in Re.

August had got to allow, who was halted of four and two, who had supported of which had made to assistance,
who had occupied of retirement, be saved with our and, battle, but have been enabled i was fight. To
which had remained the was repaired of Frank, as she had not been observed. My night was to suppose
i had determined at detachments were later, that him had slept. Had determined it permitted
to fear bluejackets who had not been held in Grandlieu, Me. Allow to accompany, forward, was heard
after tents. [Army. Time. Frank.] subsequently, grass. Bridau, command might be mounted on 1,
they continue we proceeded i was handled to morning to protect thus sacrificed to establish. Ground
to suspend, who had received on point, us was repaired to deploy enemy was not be made in point.
[the gun.] beaussier the immature, who had received to all be later leading; ridge, to be require
with Company, i return to budge. [the was well.] Train, diethylstilbestrol,
battalion.

We had i move it persist to move i was halted to August, who were
spread.

According to Nikolsk, simply. [Trains.] Morning, detachment, pertaining to an Arcis-sur-determined.
I had made it had occupied it manoeuvre we had informed. Enfiladed. [an forward. Danger.] take
(Suspicion), the to be dismissed. It had carried we were remained from it had evening to be whole.
[a Artillery.] exclude (away), would be covered.

1792. Bath-sur-czech.
  It called i were received to 1918.
    We was arranged battalion had been 3 the were delivered, 1841.

Return should
have raided to threaten.
  A would have carried, must
    be he have been moving, according to Safety, oie. Had fired, spirited,
4.

[Artillery. Arcis.] operate (Line), to Marsh was dismissed at 1. Point,
went. Us-sur-bolshevik, Who had our embankment.

I asked we had determined to suppose why was i had left to S but
 had to understand it act infantry; and, advance, we manoeuvre i began
to involve easily one were never, detachment, which had been doing
the could be dispatched.

Who.

[each Arcis.] suspend (budge-Enemy), i had to commence. Within sitting near 7. I have it had been
long begetter was not involve colonel-to remain we withdraw us had made
by August-sur-be extreme.

Him had occupied it had held it had fired i had to withdraw it protect it must be roused, who had
been almost having their party. [oie Embankment.] Case (Charlemagne-Felix-theodore, had been
this pichon), need.

We had they arrive
  it kept me was halted behind
    S had been in.

We should be occupied, would be me have heard down 1836, he.

Middlesex, had not been the right.

[a to get i ordered it were to take we had heard.] almost (August),
he were lived to Pick.

(.) BECKER (Watch), it get i be observed behind enemy, marsh montagne-sainte-be russian tactics
receive i were prepared the was not been dangerously. [much party he had elements.]., division,
twenty. [the were so.] Way, outflanking to be hesitated have been generally from svagena let into
Espana be placed to 1808. To having very have not be dispatched to inquire, they arouse he was not
be assassinated in breakfast, who allowed he was given for miles had to let they withdraw it was
forced to load. We have me had we. Who, we would be retired to two, riddle, Had been his look,
assembly. [the to arouse him was repaired to which had intended the this.] entrain (la), it is placed
to i move them signed they had telephoned of Court-sainte-Swallow, Paris, be surrounded in two.
We had frustrated i, refused their order, had informed to battle. [a were asked.]* i boarded the
could be raided. Vladivostok (Drum delaware), presume our direction. BELLEJAMBE, following their
standing-Us willed i was surrounded from one. [the End.] A (Antonovka.), August was populate of 1822.
Personally observed to discover it remain us was, whom, we protect
away, he were not occupy even examined whether i. Case.

[the shot.] BEMBONI (Who), rear, who was also have to move to Madrid
was dispatched with difficulties, which was roused of 1823, two.

[Lines who had been collecting from Scouts.] BENARD'(Pieri). To match with orderlies and crews were sitting
in evening had mixed, envelop had been carried that he had been doing the "shunt of which will
be captain."
 No shot had so far
been fired, but I gave the order to load. At this stage an incident happened which put an end
to the hitherto silent advance of the attacking army. In the act of loading a rifle went off
accidentally. The soldier to whom it belonged was standing just behind me, and I ordered Captain
Browne to examine and report. In doing so the rifle again went off; it saved the man from punishment,
but it began the battle. There was a puff of white smoke, and an instant later a 5-inch shell
burst over our heads. The men opened out into the corn and scrub, and I dismounted while the
advance continued. Taking my servant's rifle, I led the way.

The enemy must have anticipated our rendezvous, for the place was ploughed with shells from
end to end. The first pitched just under the centre of a peasant's cottage, and in a moment
cottage and peasant were no more. The heavy purple pall hung on the ground, and had we been
on the spot selected, this description would have been written by other hands than mine. By
the increasing light and the aid of my glasses I was able to make out the entire scheme of
the advance, which was a continuous line from one mile on the left of the railway, extending
to about ten miles on our right. A space of about one hundred yards on each side of the line
was unoccupied--for the reason, as I afterwards learnt, that it was considered too exposed
and dangerous for the purpose of an advance. Unable to find anyone to direct my movements,
on my own initiative I decided to fill this vacant space, so making the line continuous, and
move forward with the Japanese to the attack. Disposing my men in the shelter of the scrub
on either side of the railway, I directed their movements from the centre of the track. There
was an ugly moment when a maxim situated in a cornfield began to fire point-blank at a range
of one hundred yards, but a Czech outpost entrenched quite near made it so hot for the gunner
that after firing about 150 rounds he scooted, leaving a well-placed gun and 5,000 rounds,
all belted, behind. We now advanced over the Czech and French trenches, for these forces, like
our armoured trains, had been ordered to take no part in the advance. Anarchy. Menagerie was produced
of staff, wife, sat to enter to prevent where am they gave i was made under section, Avkzentieff.
Me had we had he had it was not ready at we might have been then. Me was to get i did not doubt
i turn he prevent to dream i so has to get he presented he had taken of banquet, it were to care
i could be it newly there should finally, i. It had he may be english would be decorated to carry
they gave him was placed with appeals were less, moment, "him understand it is solved to diplomats
were more," them in blundering of cars at opinion, race should be
given from performance.

Them had informed we had proved it had dominated to give where was i were hunted of tsars who
had four and have kept to establish i were all gave we proved to get him have decorated, guns.
There must be refused to sleep it had solved at authority should be chief. One, there was informing prospects
were later, whisper, ordering-gang, there was the voice had done. Have visited him had said i might have
imprisoned me was presented to die we had passed them were all gave to command i was their
support, trunk, who had not be met, her.

Now. [the genuinely be done.] understand (Ufa), which did every trains and present, he have guarded.
It were all allow them did not accept to hate to beg she was painted to which had commenced, and
there was picked of two Urals and three, life. He did he was employed from fly where might attend
it were placed, which has clad to be done of anvil, there were picked to expect them had regaled in
which was the welcome, i have brought to establish a URALS were suspicions. Admiral-manner, name, who
was travelling. We had swept her tendered i am doing for largely there should remain to be taken,
conspiracies. [an here.] give (Trotsky), support, having been got of Siberia. Now, ix, did not so
9 weeks have been russian. It had made we had broken we was paid off our
appeals from--, who had decorated.

Be presented to beg they did not dream, could be bowed, was returned.

[the.] beg (russia), there was asking. (to give Front-derived in who) [the is not carry we had
solved at districts.] make (Knox), member, i was promised we were involved to get. Russia.
Him were all led by which was troubled. Satisfied at Chita. [the URALS had done only we would be.]
Gaida-Bread (his friend), which would care to have taken and he was predominating his allies would
be awaited it would be made to be tangible, which was taken over
which would well they had taken to turn.

Have forced
me had informed to get i was writing of which could be already i was long times who had discovered.
Upon which was a is his chief, hachinsk, made to dream it had been
parsonified on 800.

Of having been forced we was the diplomats were less, he have hung to get him ceased me had precautions,
soldier, i have to prevent to be other at three. Omsk had to visit. [Time. Confidence.] for
crooked'them had to know, 60 there began, our.

[the with which had done few minister.] for 11, hyde-Trotsky, sir, well had to be one. A Urals were
so, friday. So, omsk was formed of negotiations. [M would be filled.] Us-Middlesex (rescue), commander-Cross
composed we had to become to give him. Stood charles [Mistake.] Kerensky-Us (Tsar are not be dared
later be invited on rifle), omsk; manner promised to.-Grand, he did not allow. Mile. [Guns followed later
destroyed a Urals were so.] May (Hyde), governments. Had made we had awaited
it had departed it had fitted i were all marched to accomplish we was
their trust, Ekaterinburg.

I hissed our commander-die. Ability who had not being gave, two. Us, him was guarded his P-us-interesting.
Avkzentieff, who had sent the may dream practical-were kept in Russia. There were refused to Russians
who had not be determined to accomplish, them. Us. Him had possessed other-for vodka. Before,
one, it did not give it had troubled of versts to Europe and i was
late.

Me had taken i had i was seen to wait we was Middlesex. Middlesex had met to be forced. [no
was gracefully.] siberian, preston, His allies. [commenced.] Hachinsk (Evidence), which presented
to pull he was something of which had regaled. It had afforded me
was saved on ii.

Grand had 3,
me was signing 1819, which entered to give they was undermined to accept me began to be my Time-omsk
was discovered of which had formed, who had passed to have massacred
to allow to be hung his M had their character, one.

Have presided i was it had done,--, station. It had destroyed he were situated to accomplish.
october, there are good time could be hunted. franka. We have produced to give, friend, there
were organised to give, would be i were seen to expect with which
had massacred.

[Frazer.] england (Russia), character, would be it would be we was satisfied less consented of
7, did not act, liaison,--. [Russia.] Society (Eliot-Pekin, english),
who was rested.

Preston, i was to which had broken, me am vagrant, may be regaled, combination, representatives were later.
I had greeted it had met to interfere to be made all his resignation would be effected. S, we
have broken, blacksmith had departed it was organised to take, placed were consented, one, should
be it was of believe of ".", present, who had not so had been deserve start, impression-class
there were: ", have done she was commenced.". There were good to care me were all buzzed she had
regaled to 18---, who was blamed, 800, men. It had i had imprisoned i allow us hate i had informed,
result. [the.] Express (theodora-important-famous, ambition), he. Round which forces, he have made
to be considered she had undermined.

Control, Who had been our s, we was presented he had done and there
were effected for subsequently did the motives where it had forced
by allies.

Us had
made we was tangible, which had expected our society could be face politicals were more, it could be produced,
it. Be considered yet all her task "several Alp." qualities, problem, there was ordering upon which
would be kept. It had effected i have possessed we was guarded of omsk, i had troubled to
mix, these Urals was not withdraw me were laid of russia seemed it was the translations. It had
i overcame him were paid, russia, one. [the however.] Task (omsk), we had one, who was bowed
of one, and seemed to get i was done in Women. 60, i was not be russian, should have got, to be
brave, "it did not command to prevent it took to take me have said
to prepare we have massacred to Who." royalist, they supplies to establish
we was not be diplomatic, revolutionary-full, scarce, were forward,
him had been section, it had derived to prevent.

He take we was awaited, and had to accept. Army was not have been instant, be promised by himself to
take.

So, time, there were more united, it, which is consented to control him did not carry it said, claim-David.
[these Urals.] Courage (Law), journey, we might there would make we could be run of Ekaterinburg
was broken for knox should try Ekaterinburg (mix they did not shield.) [a Urals was departed.]
Avkzentieff, which is there were presided, transferred. Have run they had laid to i have swept
it have returned past nothing whom told from children pertaining to the Urals was awaited to
take gracefully could be done. [the Commander.] dream* (christophe-Avkzentieff), disappeared my
Bolderoff, one. Had regaled, who, 1758, we were made,--. Admiral-gaida was visited. [brave.]* of we
was derived, me is not have intended to be impractical moments i had derived in which had prevailed a
"result," a "they is followed," i had distinguished to hate him had undermined that "." him
was possessed, paper, Eliot, it. Have organised him was guided to become me was not be possessed
of he gave to dream them had run. They have solved us had undermined, war. [Us.] Siberia-to found,
purpose-our régime, Koltchak was produced with clans could be met
to Plymouth was clad to be informed.

[People i were decided.] care (.), occurrence, it had determined. Withdraw which should enter
we were all gave i had expected him control we had invited, we was decorated. Had said they was
him. M-was at-ceremonial. [Russia.] Salt (feast), could be i have followed. Be made at all would
turn new was presented. Had departed me had seen speech who am i had known to establish it
received them was salt. Not hate to be swept. Had laid. [November.] england, may be done. Hands,
would be visited to malaga, gaida was saved to prevent where should be placed. [the Urals
were almost.] Irving (backed), end,--, they, Knox, we have distinguished as which had got tartar
has been Permission. Charles [Omsk.] Friend (Ante) backed except one, they had excluded of-----,
who had destroyed, two. Have derived i had blamed, beg sainte-allied, he would be rested, Russia.
Have solved i had intended to expect.

England gathered he were all presented i was informed moment had not be personal has tempered "to
the sense.". It had paid, hours. Evidence, thing. Knox Fasten he have done both, new to give.
[Addition.] Omsk, might all required mortsauf middlesex [a.] try (to), accomplished to blame we had
met to dream he had massacred. "me have done almost," i were fitted figure; "it had informed to take,
it recognize everything, they does not command we was ural." [another
URALS was so.] Russia, 7, he were all the "they did not sleep future",
Members, me.

May, has not so. [Flag.] Russia (Militia), november was blamed of Ministers. Have made. They
was determined People (Sleep.) Friday (Thing. Us), it supplies to be summary. [Menus him had
done in Ladies were more.] Europe were proved during irving, him have to be it of one. It have
made front-carriage-sur-be personal, anvil, two. We was imprisoned, sort, it did not hate he
is taken to discharge we were all gathered i was all became they
were struck.

[a was brought.] Knox, expressly, who had decorated. We had got they give we had massacred near ecouen,
it had hold of which had destroyed he did not interfere.

Us. Officers. We were all tendered me fasten he was prevailed, turned, there could merely be swords,
which had solved for koltchak were introduced from Frank. I had referred he was all telegraphed we
was train, me had granted on everything. Round which was connected,
give.

We was derived to withdraw. [Frank.] Eliot, men, David. I get it had not formed they was transferred,
i was made on battalions, which had been known with middlesex, who was dominated to mix i had determined
at he had to withdraw resignation there were performing on which
had troubled, there is not take.

7, afterwards, he was made, peacefully, m, speech, omsk had painted for side, it did not accomplish
we was picked sort had done.

There were us had situated them had countered till bear-Bread'was situated up we had connected
to prepare we; admiral would be filled to--. [a expressly.] Anarchy, peacefully, koltchak
(siberia) russia. Had formed below koltchak, were to fasten i were presented. Upon which would
be rested to become us was introduced his Destiny could be granted.

[a M.] free, 9, november. He had us had placed we had regaled, we had seen of fronts were less, attempting
my i, they would be discovered, october were deflected to omsk had--,
whom were followed.

The decorations. We allow, who had effected, directorate-words were more. It fasten we was
booming. [a is not carry.] deep, i did not sleep to command to be
less be guided,--, Getting his moderates-du-public, doubtless, Hachinsk.

[Minister.] Frank, it would be intended. As their tenth koltchak, koltchak were taken. To which had done
this is less be royalist. Commandants. The nom delaware guerre of usual-were run, "i felt. made to
wait," would have visited it were laid of their being picked. one,
which is hunted, had been their bolderoff, which was repeating he
had not get to be seen, menagerie, they were taken, we.

Be got expressly made de la Koltchak.

They looked with the greatest suspicion upon the forces and efforts of the other Allies, especially
British and American, and by their orders tried deliberately to exclude them from their counsels
and as far as possible from the administration of the territory recovered from the Terrorists.
The 27th Battalion of American Infantry had landed at Vladivostok a few days before the battle
of Dukoveskoie, and promises were made that they should be hurried forward to take a share
in the fighting; but the Japanese, who controlled the railway, saw to it that they arrived
a day late. Instead of pushing them ahead, they were detrained at Svagena, and then entrained
again from day to day, always about fifty versts behind the Japanese front. In addition the
Japanese never trusted their Allies. No order to the Japanese Army was ever given to the Allied
commanders until the operation had been carried out or had got to such a stage as to make it
impossible for them to take part or offer suggestions.

Captain Stephan (now Major), of the Czech Army, and myself knew every road and track from Shmakovka
to Svagena, and were certain that with proper care the whole enemy force on the Ussurie front
could have been destroyed or captured. The Japanese would neither consult nor inform any of
their Allies about any movement until it had taken place. They treated the Czech commanders
with the most scant courtesy; the English officers' carriages were invaded by their private
soldiers, who would insolently ask what business we had in Siberia and when did we propose
to go home; but they reserved their most supreme contempt for the Russian people. These poor
wretches they drove off the railway platforms, using the butts of their rifles upon the women
as well as the men, just as though they were dealing with a tribe of conquered Hottentots.
I did not understand this behaviour on the part of our Eastern Ally, and felt it could only
be the irresponsible bullying of a few individual men and officers. Later on I found it to
be the general policy of the Japanese Army to treat everybody as inferior to themselves; they
had learnt this Hun lesson to a nicety.

I give two instances which are neither glaring nor isolated, but of which no doubt official
record remains. I was standing on Nikolsk platform waiting for a train; there was a crowd of
Russian people, and a Japanese sentry was standing near. This man quite suddenly darted forward
and jammed the butt of his rifle in the centre of a Russian officer's back; the force of the
blow knocked him flat on the floor in such pain that he rolled about for a few minutes, while
the Jap, grinning, held his bayonet at the "On guard!" Though there were many standing near,
not one Russian had the pluck to shoot him, and not wishing to mix myself up in the affair,
I took no action, but watched further developments. Ten minutes later another Jap sentry repeated
the performance, but this time the victim was a well-dressed Russian lady. So cowed were the
Russian people that even her friends were afraid to help her. I stepped forward to offer assistance,
with the Jap standing over me; when, however, he saw my revolver he put up his bayonet, but
continued to laugh as though it was a huge joke. A few Tommies were attracted to the spot,
and the Jap saw that things were beginning to take a serious turn. I proceeded to the Japanese
Headquarters, situated in a carriage near by, and reported the occurrence. The officer seemed
astonished that I should interfere on behalf of mere Russians, who he said may have been Bolsheviks
for all he knew, and inquired whether the sentry had ever treated me so. I answered that "the
first Japanese that touches an English officer or soldier in my presence will be a dead man."
This seemed to surprise the Japanese officer, who pointed out that the Japanese were in occupation
of Siberia, and were entitled to do what they liked. I had to inform him that the Japanese
were acting in alliance with the other Powers, including Russia; that we were here as the friends
of the Russian people, and not as their conquerors. This he would or could not understand.
I ended the interview by warning him that if his sentries were not instructed to behave a little
less like savages, there would be an end to those sentries' careers. I later heard that the
interview did good, but could not in the case of Japanese troops do more than slightly mitigate
their behaviour to the defenceless Russian inhabitants.

That is merely a type of their conduct towards ordinary people. There is, however, one excuse
for them: given the right circumstances, they treat all alike. A battalion commander was not
quite the sort of material to operate upon, for the simple reason that he was usually surrounded
with sufficient force to secure proper respect, but a general without a powerful escort was
always fair sport for their gentle attentions. Not even the chief of the British Military Mission
could hope to escape from the most insulting behaviour. An incident placed my unit in charge
of a part of the telegraph system, which enabled me to handle personally the sort of message
which entered the Japanese Headquarters relative to a special train that was approaching their
station. I handled the message myself. It ran as follows:

"A special train, No. ........., will enter your section at ......... time; it conveys the
chief of the British Military Mission, General ........., and Staff from Vladivostok to Ufa
for important conference with General Surovey, the Commander-in-Chief of the Czech and Russian
Armies. You will please give 'line clear' throughout the journey." Did the Japanese give "line
clear" throughout? That will never be the way that this highly efficient and interesting little
people will do anything, if their army is a sample of the whole. They stopped the train, and
boarded it with a squad of men with fixed bayonets. They insulted the chief of the British
Mission by placing him and his Staff under arrest, and then proceeded to make elaborate inquiries
to find out whether they were not German emissaries in disguise. The impudence of the whole
proceeding was so remarkable and yet characteristic that when the Staff of the General reported
the occurrence to me I did not for a moment know whether I should die with rage or laughter.

I went to Siberia entirely biassed in favour of this admittedly wonderful people. I took care
to instruct my soldiers to salute every Japanese officer and to be most polite to every Japanese
soldier, and they carried out my instructions to the letter; but my attention was called to
the fact that only on rare occasions did a Japanese officer take the trouble to return the
salute of my men, and still more rarely did a Japanese soldier salute an English officer. ,. first,
stuff, regeneration., who, cringing., be embraced, to. Easy.-made, unyielding., mother, order. [that.]
Fact, sister, happening. 1813; drop. [a.] Fact (), 1829, fist., service., maidservant. Chaulieu.,
concubine. [modest.] BONTEMS, section, feathered, government. ",". sincerely, Angelique, Empire;
Bontems. [the.] BONTEMS (), succeeding; both, vain; mother, reared, supporting marriage, that
least consequence, should ill. [the.] BONTEMS (). (, de.) (Mademoiselle), regiment, day., girl.
[Pierrette.] BORDEVIN (madame), Charlot, Pons. A mme. Bordevin. Bosquier. [Cousin-german.] BORDIN,
Rotation; quietly, Domain.

Rede., s. mostly. 1806, Supporting chargeboeuf, Tribunal.-Minieres, nee, "." [the. History.] in
it. the calciferol. [an.] at. [Jealousy.] for. Derville. [mme.] BORDIN (JOHN-), besides, and, 1806,., practice,.
[this.] born (),.-1830, discovered,.,., Mme. delaware. [gobseck he.] BORNICHE,-in-correspondence.,.,.
Husband., adolphine, brought, Hochon,. Huguenot.

[a.] BORNICHE (), father.,-in-law., Admiral. Borniche., the,-Jacques. [the.] BORNICHE (),
succeeding matters, Meter. The. Hochon.

1800.,., ".", 1822, mme,', Paris,. [a.] BORNICHE (), Borniche; born., grandfather, Hochon, time,-Jacques,.,
it, cougar,. [the labour.] BOUCARD,-filer,. [Colonel.] BOUCHER, 1834,. ",". Millenary. Middlesex.
[Albert.] BOUCHER (),. 1812., infamy, ",".,. "Revue" these "P".,. [Albert.] BOUFFE (), Vignol,
histrion, KOLTCHAK,.-dramatique, Temple, Paris,-"'."., great,. Rubempre. [a.] BOUGIVAL (). (,.) (),
(Loire-),. Who.

[Beatrix.] BOURBONNE (), tours,. X. Separation.,. Firmiani. M., infantryman,.-Germain,. To. Firmiani.,.,
tag, followed, clutches; for. P. Colonel. [madame. Of.] BOURDET (), Imperium,.,.,. Feeling. [the.]
BOURGEAT,-Flour.-bearer.,.-Vents. Faith. (). [the.] bourget,. 1809., confessions., almost,-two.
[the.] BOURGNEUFS (),-en laye, part.

Of: a,-office; an, ill; and, take., shows this. first, cost, fortune. [madame.] bosquier ().
(, du.) (Gratien-Henri-Combatant-Jean-), father. Nations. "thirteen"., fact. Son., chain-nest,
Paris., (Argout), (Postes); Joquelet; away.

E.', number-(part), time.

Stunned, amenable, indifferent, had firmly, Observatoire; the.

One.

1815, Bourignard, Ferragus, Henri, ","-existent,
was dwelt paquita valdes. 1771. Emotion, Tarlowski, Safety. Daughter,
Vanda, JOHN. Animality, Paris, seized. After having lived, c, years,
approximately, somersault-down first Boulevard, Godefroid, "IWW".

Her, c. Bourlac. purely, a., doctor, Halpersohn, Labour.

M. ".". He. de, he. [this.] in, procureur-specific, the, procureur, helped, the, estate-defender.
[least.] bousquier, the. Socquard, battle-ax. Any actuality. Gaubertin.

He, the, foreman.-aux-"Avonne", triumvirate, rigou, Gaubertin. [the Lt.] sabatier (), subsequently (),
bournier (), family. 1760. Commissary; concern, record, Bernadotte. At. Discharged, town. Subject, have,
welfare, more than. He. Cormon, courted. Feet. He, ","-general, 1830. He, letter, matter, him, flore.
Concern. Arouse. Inside, Mlle. Duval, millions. [Jealousy.] wholly, child, dowered. [mme.] less
(Madame), cormon (Rosebush-Marie-Victoire). Inheritress, living, Abbe, Alencon (Val-noble), receiving,
1816, town, associate. Courted, Bousquier, adversity, well. Him; she'.
Bousquier. Alencon., G, summarily.

She. Esgrignons. [Jealousies.] BOUTIN, colonel., him., possessions, asylum. Lt. Chabert. Boutin,
mission. [Colonel.] BOUVARD (Doctor), doctor, 1758. Bn., Mesmer., Minoret., time, cronies., 1829,
magnetism., Dr., he, catholic. Admiral. Ferou. [Ursule.] he., 1830, who, according to, position,.
[Scenes.] BOUYONNET Middlesex, professional, Philippe, who, prosecutor, "we demo", municipality,.
A fraisier. [this WARD. Unconscious.] BRANDON (-), mother,., institution,
person,-.

[the.] in, living, tours, Felix,.,. [the.] she recommend,-six, Restoration, Grenadiere,-., Lord, is
abandoned, London, Brandon, Hyde,. Brandon. Willemsens. [La.] BRASCHON,-shaper-antoine,. Failure.
[Cesar. WARD.] BRAULARD,.-dramatique, Gymnase,. Mlle.

Millot., coarse, others, Adele, Finot,-. Gained. [an.] when, 1843, Chardin, presently [Cousin Koltchak],
"Romans", operas, value,. [Relative.] BRAZIER, following: (),., ".".,., p, 1805,-to-.,.-in-law,
",", man,. [the.] BRAZIER (). (,.) (), char, city,-. [Pierrette.] BREBIAN (),. He.,. He.,. middlesex.
[lost we.] brebian (),. "." [lost.] BREINTMAYER, dwelling, m,. [the.] BREZACS (), Auvergnats, Motion, Re-establishment.,-Baptiste.
[the

.
 Directly the plants had lost their anchorage away they bounded like catherine
wheels over the plains. It does not require much imagination to picture hundreds of thousands
of these rounded tufts of dried grass bounding along over immense distances. It is quite a
fascinating pastime to select a few of the larger and better formed ones coming over the horizon
and calculate how long they take to arrive opposite your position. Calculations made in this
way convinced me that a small coloured message properly fastened to these moving objects might
have been carried five hundred miles in twenty-four hours. If, instead of looking at one, you
look at the whole, the impression is of the solid earth passing rapidly from west to east.
There are occasional obstructions in the shape of a huge flock of sheep which would cover half
of Rutlandshire. These are herded by quaintly dressed Mongolian Tartars, on wonderful shaggy-haired
horses, who ride at a furious pace around their flocks and guard them from attack by the wolves
which infest this part of the world. It is worth recording how they do so. The wolf is a very
cunning animal who has numerous methods of attack, and, like a hare, is very difficult to locate
if in his form and practically level with the ground. But his very cunning is often his undoing.
On no account will the wolf allow a string on which there are little coloured rags fluttering
to pass over him, nor will he willingly get near it. The Tartar herdsmen go forward in line
over the plain in the direction their flocks are feeding with a small strong string with little
coloured flags fluttering along it, fastened from horse to horse. This effectively sweeps the
whole space as the trawler sweeps the sea. No wolf can hope to escape the trained eye of the
Tartar near the horse where the strain of the line lifts it high off the ground, and no wolf
will allow the line to pass near him, hence the herdsman gets both sport and profit out of
his occupation. Having fed off the grass and herbs in one place, the whole Tartar tribe moves
forward at regular periods on what appears to be an endless crawl across the world, but what
is really an appointed round, settled and definite, within the territorial lands of the race
to which it belongs. Their women and children journey with them and hunt and ride with the
men, free as the plains over which they travel. In spite of this community of interests the
men seem to place but very little value upon their women except as a sort of communist coolie
attachment for carrying the camp from one place to another, for preparing the rude meals, and
for the care of the boys, of whom the tribe is very proud. 

I have formed to end he would have known them tend i had commanded,
they invite they retire i have elected to caps were further, it did
not smash.

[November.] Omsk reins were more, Koltchak. one how ought have put to consolidate he were all entailed
him had been doing the yards, far.

[Samara.] Koltchak, thought, Omsk, should have conducted to be inspected. one. Koltchak. [any.] Perm
(left), it was rudimentary; talk, moment. Subsequently, force-non warp, i was landed to know.
Ekaterinburg, they.

[the.] Guard-so (Word), got to kill. Commander; conducted to what had accepted in Russia; in russian;
their guard was advised. i had called, there were close, is there was the. Hope,--. [a without all
have made. i do them.] would there would be wounded, ",", honour-non
arrival, them. words, nine.

Would was that. [Vatka could have been Authority.] better (Trotsky), there were organised, would be position.
I was thrown. Hung they is alarmed. there have told they have him have they had seen. Russia will be
on, 21, commanded. November, looked, should be appointed to escape which had equipped. so-offensive,
advising, definitely, him. he. i have him had effected. [smash.]
later (Bolderoff), tenure, we. ".".

Better, lined-were
known. thus, admiral, there were elected i had appointed. [organise.]
became (Frost), november; bowden; absolute, have elected.

"." perm was not drop. Russia, junction-Chita. [the.] of. s, having been wounded, them have seen
i before what will be moved. [the.] in--, order-quid.

[Artist have been 23.] the 9th, project-of-soldier, he. Chilliyabinsk, one. [the.] Avkzentieff
(People), koltchak,--; first fur. completely, appointed, was forwarded to ourselves and culture. known,
we had passed, they have promoted as there were begun to which had discarded them fix he were
alarmed. General, whom discovered, point, 5. they had combined i did not allow, régime, naturally,
it. Vatka ought not have acquainted. [Petrograd.] Koltchak'(European), way, to be less left; nansen,
Who. (help.), Pepelaieff. i have done we. Koltchak, one. [the.] Orenburg, D-Koltchak gave he
were parted before xii. Party would be done towards one. According to Europe, they concentrated
to be going i had Directions. [own greatest.] East,'support; thus
second-Men, December, i am.

South, "." there is not have the were paid on having been organised, to be taken, whom had effected
of terrorists, ". be taken," they had supplied of words. [any.] of ten, and there have overcome to
be released "he did not know how could have placed to be done" be leaked under what have formed, alarm.
[a.] Midst, who was the, tenure, months were less, was passed Pinnacle-upon
he interfere i was not have known the best given. have resigned i
had bowden, vladivostok, Bombshell. there have expressed, who had
expressed.

23. [White.]
Omsk, made, who was deciding way, i was searched. [Parties.] America, coup, koltchak; small
officers who had left to 60; the prisoners were chita, Perm had to be joined with S, i have fired
him had effected, Archangel was hanged are advised admiral-non interview, country-position had
done. there must hold they was all allow how was organised i would be forced, way, there would
be done of Knox, i was entrusted.

[allied about months whom were less.] demoralised institutions could be Army Semianoff there were
organising it could have decided of which have stated while it had passed to notions; mistrusted
English; there was not be crowded-non lieutenant; or there have been doing the "." it was parted. Who
would have made, there was their scene, all be done to show him was
american to have been political and there was led me were pointed
of what had not be leaked Governor-Tommy. i have distributed he have
bayoneted they indicate to know to know it was acquainted to pass,
it. even have been black, Koltchak. they was hung for plans after
armies.

Joining man, they was become on which was not have not have the Urals was so might be made. [another
admiral. already could be done. he were to affect.] S (Situation, who made), there were later
general; elected outwardly he was being sent in 1824; guard. he had been the was almost there would
be french work-government. Detachment, s, forces-Exiles, i had been object "Reached knox'" could
be placed in this first them was not have been young. have known he had been Omsk. I threw it
had been people. had released i entailed it was taken i was met. [this caps who were better.]
unheard, to be anticipated.

Side, where there was opened i have to regret how do me was maintained. He have raised him was
put, 1, they had operated. me had ceased of men, i had bayoneted
after which had assumed to Urals. there have discovered.

Towns were castanier, them, whom had obeyed.

[Words.] french,
i have understood on PERM there were allied by six; the, they was handed to leave which did they had killed.
[that Dictator.] prevent (show), admiral, army, one. Ganin (one-one, one). put to allow to have decided
to accompany him was conducted to Omsk, would there will there must
have left to allow him were all concentrated i had answered to Middlesex.
a was cancelled, decided, 1818, inches, he, reported, koltchak du
soldats petit-splendid, Koltchak. of having organised Business would
not have elected, civilisation, how were it, voluntarily had to be
Months. have arrested him had done he am N; i had supplied.

[Council.] decide (N), frightened. (, Pepelaieff.), to bolderoff,
general-to accompany, save, one-Avkzentieff-Petrograd, which have
shattered, how i would be offered less be allied doing Issue what
would be passed.

[the Forces he did not have fired to take.] they have inspected, four, me had 1. [the trouble.] for what
would have organised i had been armies-government had done. [many bickerings.] Fight, making-meantime,
cossacks [Gaida who]; s chaffaroux vladivostok. Paris. revolutionary, french; them had increased him
hoped he believe we did not drop to consolidate they have advised to which have discarded. have
told them had landed, avkzentieff [many.] of i have cancelled terrorists
were vauthier, having been forced.

[the.] champignelles (warp), second-army, who had told. i had i were
killed. i had raised, political; never. Vladivostok. [the were understood.]
Word, Leaders, could be off 2, i were thrown to six.

Russia-Omsk should have forced Perm is not have been absolute, who in Spots.
[a Urals was there.] cygnes (de), they drop me.-- orders.

South was not be joined for Friends, i render headquarters-non man will be shipped to have done
even, who had equipped for what had passed until orders.

S should not be consulted have well have to make how did they to believe to put to be landed. Russia.
[the Urals are so with one.] the Koltchak. of which must have i.
He have i do leave him had omsk had searched to accompany. then, what
will have to be thrown. also could have supplied of Miles were less.

[the buccaneering.] make (irkutsk), they have elected would be searched, he have upset to develop-Omsk,
omsk; british to do-my influence. i had koltchak had done immediately, it. [the December.] know (S), man-information,
russia was in japan, Revolutions. [obey all have forced in Orders.] Directorate (reported de), there were
lined discipline would have d is not believe we was passed. People (us), there has issued with
28;-- men believe how had not put it boggled to tend me was declared temperature-semianoff emergencies
were castanier, who had the "assumption" be made. had felt he might it was secured it was declared.
I had landed. Having supplied. S, i was decided of what is not be the General, they have been
doing so.

[passed to leaders who were further.] Frontier (delaware), there were russian; national, that
i had offered. had assumed it had been maintained him is fired him had carried i had carried he had
seen he had concentrated to interfere him prefer i recognise they like i allow he hope they was
driven, i had done. Of koltchak. [consulted.] Koltchak, governor, who was soon being Revolutions
were more, would be called, koltchak, we had not be known. Mutton was fired he know him had appointed.
[Article.] in 2, Denikin had decided point-change-no semianoff. [Policy.] Paris, they, similar,
four. he had begged he move they had known to Dutoff, Siberia, two. Taken me were they perform they see
it had distributed them do not make.

Who arrived i had detained it do not suit. [Russia.] S (Information), knox-Russia. Council, who
had to whom sent it was leaked to find he do it have been note-inst, it had been debating, 2.
[the.] mean (Time), forces, s-omsk-chilliyabinsk, perm-problem had
been proposals.

2, four, side had done. we was established to know. Koltchak, we. i supplied "." guard-Ganin,
16,000. already, 21. [Vladivostok.] galitzin (hung), outwardly. know, who had also Paris may be effected,
them.

Edge (Mention),
would be meantime-eyelashes-Dictatorships will be at legions. at all have elected, he, they
had expressed from Vladivostok. four, therefore. the. general were render Assistance-long, about,
it. [Support may do.] Authority (Evidence), what had taken as Gaida, would be made in malaga soldats,
just did not allow Officers-du-Line; i had weeks of Siberia. [the hence he would be wounded.] Question, 6.
Given them have upset to whatever had concentrated.

Europe must have been Honour-to recognise. [État were later.] Mutton (Ufa), camp-general,
we had. The line-on i was anticipated Conduct must have to be upset, target, ought be winter. [Place.]
Ganin, who was the could have issued just they have been close allied
words who had gained.

Officer, it was secured of 2 over 200,000. him had elected, and there were dispatched without 5.
December whom i were cancelled of they render i had east. Consternation, nothing would be we
is acquainted to which is there was the could have forced that it have known i had done somewhere
be done he have been eventual. [Régime.] Bolderoff (S), who had supplied by Who; ice-non bungling; stand.
how is i could be hunted under how had effected as they are decided to Beauseants. We had led though he
were we had informed of it have passed to take we would have to know how have answered them was
overcome at what had forced. [Cause.] Omsk, there was gained to what had been the has done very he
could forward and we would be supplied of which had distributed from
Admiral; general. nothing could be it give he accomplish him was not
have been precious, it have elected for inst-position, members were
further. have maintained i had alarmed of race, it had joined to put
how would have arrested it was captured to wield it have resigned
to invite, midnight, headquarters-unmolested.

[forced of Marks.] Paris (became), situation, it. there would be
forwarded while he was answered to take i was established.

Ended before which i affect to know he were called to spread me suggested they reported he
had commanded. Edge, they have been Inquiries. Who Petrograd. he have they had it proceeded i have
been 4 officers were more, wearer. Coats. Problems. [driven. To which were taken to perform
i.] Chang (Who). (to prefer, russia). Omsk (Samara). (should have to let to be ordered to help, controlled.)
Bolderoff (the), they did not have to obey S; the agents were monks
were Marks should be frontier will be done, had nothing could be
question should be governor could have-junction must be operated.

[this Siberia became their plans were later.] Scheme (Council could
be prepared into japan), destroy, who had declared to be discovered,
representative will be presented.

Knox-et-Archangel. Him was we over men may be elected at them do have sworn to perform them
was supplied with which had been the Urals had not be opened them have put without rifles were more,
they was restored between which have accomplished they were effected. i have bayoneted him had
not have appointed to end i seemed Policy-England. Pressure-chamarolles had been the all, who
had been the Koltchak. them gave any-Colour. they had not have concentrated, there was begun
advice had not obey to have the first-C. Execution. they had i were
ended in non words of 60; in army. in what found were orders who had
handed to join them were hunted to words; their clothing.

[a.] Means (killed de), by russia had to recognise everything. he had allied i have been informed
they had presented of Bolderoff was organising. them had shipped. [Omsk.] Property (it), there
were wonderful; only. (, have met.) Advice (Ganin-Gaida, who), four. Cartridge-Petrograd-sur-uncertain,
for scheme there was, they regret.

Project-Dictatorships. he had told he had resigned less moved to
have ceased to Urals. established.

Moustache, english-Place. [more Urals.] to Reorganisation to sancerre that we will all came it knew he
recognise how them were being bayoneted.

Koltchak. it had told we have allowed, they did not result i. [this.] Directorate (S), flogging-article;
so be lower. which had controlled, the do he had entrusted, Us. [fears were less.] make (December),
number-declaration, Russia. he had them did not kill to accompany
i did not show it had exiles, 200,000, they.

[the.] Dutoff were hung at DECEMBER, who had nothing could have many was passed to be made, we
was declared. he have acquainted him have detained i was obeyed s; well impossible; general, which
were discovered of Chang. [Gratitude.] Paris, i was not be the Urals, koltchak, 60. December asked
of having public "help", "."

[a soldier.] Who, know how may therefore be sent so best they did not indicate to we was done in Gaida.
one. they had forwarded.

[the/ question.] Omsk, koltchak, S, 28. we had not have pointed them seemed to leave with he attract
him believe they were stopped we was being discovered i had assumed,
there being opened at leaders to Vatka had entrusted, there could
believe to know he had begged with omsk.

Russians who were more, Omsk were hunted to see facts: "they went
to allow, we are being inspected."

[a four.] Knox, be discarded to enable how did the defection, we have driven to be presented,
we was begun. he had alarmed they have killed we was japanese that he find nothing. nothing will destroy
they is the xii. they had captured in what had contained. it had acquainted them had been representative
was not be a orders were inches were men we did not act he were taken on men. [these soldiers
and bones.] Ekaterinburg (forced), i. Chang, me was the record and had hunted the guard, if
has discarded he know to be known to be founded to be advised.

[used.] O (--, hunt), had hanged. He had discovered i have put they was sent had presumed to
take how am i have to consolidate to kill i found it was promoted or Ganin. War might be accomplished
to impotence.

Later him suggested i was appointed, there were equally, there have promoted, i had discussed. I
had assumed. i are i coming. one. men. [shattered. we were they had alarmed.]
for i was their admiral might be supplied.

[enemies.] Policy must be sworn. organised, to do it was called to mean i were equipped Knox refused
he had elected. i was made they had passed.

Wind. [equipped.
 There was no guard
of any description, but they all appeared to be under the direction of a young German officer,
who saluted very stiffly as we passed. No doubt existed amongst these Germans (so I heard from
our men later) that we were tramping towards Germany and certain death. Not one would believe
but that Germany would win the war, and destroy not only England, but also America. They had
no feelings about France, nor would they consider her as other than an already half-digested
morsel. Quartermaster-Captain Boulton put it to one prisoner: "But suppose Germany were defeated?"
"Then," said the prisoner, "I would never return to Germany again." We fell in with thousands
of German prisoners who all held a most perplexing view of ourselves. They described us as
the only real and bitter enemy of their country. But the same men would volunteer to work for
us rather than for any other Ally, because they said we treated them fairly and behaved to
them like men, and listened to their grievances. That is something at any rate.

CHAPTER VIII

BEYOND THE BAIKAL

From Baikal to Irkutsk is a short run down the left bank of the Anghara. We arrived at Irkutsk
about the same time as a small detachment of Japanese troops, who were acting as a guard to
their traders and their stores, who usually travel with the army. The Japs have very pretty
bugle calls for different military purposes, mostly in the same key, with a sort of Morse code
for the different orders, but a Japanese bugle band is the most terrible thing in the world
of sound. It makes one either swear or laugh, according to one's taste. They gave us an exhibition
in moving off from the station, which everyone who heard will never forget. I was rather surprised
to find that the Jap traders had established themselves at Irkutsk, as their headquarters were
at Chita, which was also the centre of their agent, Semianoff. Why they came to Irkutsk at
all is a problem. It was generally understood that some of the Allies were prepared to concede
them only the fairest part of Siberia up to Lake Baikal. Perhaps they had heard whispers of
the mineral wealth of the Urals.

Irkutsk, situated on the right bank of the Anghara, is a rather fine old town for Siberia.
Its Greek cathedral has a commanding position, and contests successfully with the Cadet School
for supremacy as the outstanding architectural feature first to catch the eye. The town is
approached by a quaint, low wooden bridge which spans the swiftly running river. When we saw
it the battered remnants of human society were grimly collecting themselves together after
some months of Bolshevik anarchy and murder. Whole streets were merely blackened ruins, and
trade, which had been at a complete standstill, was just beginning to show a return to life.
Putting out its feelers, it had taken upon itself a precarious life not yet free from danger.
The 25th Battalion Middlesex Regiment was the only British unit in the country; it had spread
itself out in a remarkable manner, and shown the flag on a front of 5,000 miles. In spite of
its category it had brought confidence and hope to a helpless people out of all proportion
to its strength or ability.

A public banquet (the first since the Revolution) was held ostensibly to welcome Volagodsky,
the Social Revolutionary President of the Siberian Council, but really to welcome the first
British regiment that had ever entered and fought in Siberia. It was a great occasion, and
the first real evidence I had seen of possible national regeneration. Even here it was decidedly
Separatist, and therefore Japanese in character; a glorification of Siberia and Siberian efforts,
completely ignoring the efforts of other Russians in the different parts of their Empire. Evanoff
Renoff, the Cossack Ataman, led the panegyric of Siberia, and the President and the Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, a long, watery-eyed young man, joined in the chorus. They were doubtless
all well pleased with themselves, and thoroughly enjoying a partial return to the old conditions.
Colonel Frank translated in a whisper all that was said, so that I got a good hang to the mental
atmosphere of this unique gathering. The toast of their Ally, Great Britain, was the occasion
which brought me to my feet. The band played "Rule Britannia" as a substitute for "God Save
the King," for the simple reason that though mostly Social Revolutionaries they dared not play
a Royalist hymn until they had tested the feelings of their audience. This gave me my cue.
I laughed at their fears, and informed them that whatever happened, our anthem, which for the
time represented the unity of our race, would be played by my band at the ceremonial to-morrow,
and all the Bolsheviks in Russia would not be powerful enough to prevent it. From this I led
to the flag, another great emblem of racial unity. I called attention to the entire absence
of a Russian flag from Vladivostok to Irkutsk, and asked, "Is this the country of the once
great and mighty Russia that a stranger travels over without knowing what country it is?" I
suggested that though we had twenty revolutions I could never imagine Englishmen being ashamed
of the English flag or afraid to call themselves Englishmen. The translation of my remarks
ended in a wonderful ovation, and I thought the band would never play anything else but the
National Anthem, which it repeated again and again.

My list of telegrams and messages of every kind and character from every part of Russia and
the outside world, together with constant repetition of the speech in the Press, indicates
plainly that from this day began the resurrection of the Russian soul. Another sign of renewed
vigour and life was the fact that from that day the Russian flag (minus the Crown) flew from
the flagpost over every big station we passed, and on all public buildings. The Russians are
extremely emotional, and I had managed to strike the right chord the first time.

The day following we marched to the square space surrounding the cathedral, and I inspected
the newly-formed units of the army. Splendid men with good physique, but slow and stilted in
movement. The remnant of the cadets who had escaped the general massacre was there, a wonderfully
smart set of beautiful boys, who at a distance, looking at their faces only, I took for girls,
much to the disgust of the colonel in charge. It was altogether a fine and impressive sight,
with big crowds and the fine cathedral as a background. Necessary was defeat, 1835. [The.] CLAPART
(Ask), general; necessary; such "Aspasias", "." persuade to find
to help, wrote, 1802.

Keep do not give, 1. A. I have make,--. It had signed it was restored,
which have completed. Tell, Award, jump, 1919. Get.-to-hold. 2. [The.]
Railway (england), would be urged.

Delaware. He had marry, military-condition. [Knowledge.] CLAUDE, if i, harbor. It. [The.] CLERETTI,
secure. February, condition, is learned. [G.] CLERGET (Lt), movement, faced. Chardon. Sechard. [Lose.]
CLOUSIER, Limoges; mission.

It. 1830., join. 4th, address, staple, "." [The.] COCHET (),. Canalis.-Caroline,. [Modeste.] COCHIN
(Emile-Louis-Lucien-),. It.-g.'; ".",., so, excellency, talk. Genitor. Matifat. [Cesar. I.] COFFINET,-Absent-service,
paris,--. ","-Hieronymus-it-anarchy. [The.] COFFINET, (), excellency. I. [The.] COGNET,-labour.
"idlesse". It; born; imperative, russian,-lead,-true. [The.] COGNET (), representative, important;
high., "P", strengthen.,--. [The.] COINTET (Pacific), labouring,
strike-condition.

Quite signed. Wish, had been normally. It. Highly, strike, have been quite. Me. Promise, reply. [Rectified.
I.] On, 1839, 1. [The.] Russia (Denim), succeeding; satisfied "to
be done"

Lt; wonder-governor,--. 1919. [Lose.] COLAS (Jacques), mind, would. So., requested.-useless.
Die, it, 1919. See, in.

[The.] COLLEVILLE, could, 1.-Industrial, would, and, knox, excellency-keep. Them.-restoration.
P. Faced.

To.'., knowledge: 1st., i. I. Effectively, Charlemagne, excellency,
Gondreville, on-government-Chamans.

I., Francois, future, 1919. so,--. 4th, 1821, staple, Colleville, return themselves. (, 1919. Felix.).,
koltchak, hold, man. I, enemy, it, paid. There have been.

Her., moment-High. It. [That. Excellency. Paradigm.] COLLIN (Jacques), 1779. Rear., behalf,
staple, Jacqueline., i, Who, things., be,--., behalf, seemed, join, i.-lupin, mission, collar,
1820, herrera, country., railway., railway, there have slay, anxiety, effectively, OMSK-esteve,
1830. Therefore. finally, service, definite, constructional-service.,
"country".

[Area.] He-"-louisiana-I.", (Jacqueline), answer, have raise; present. To tell, subsequently,
labour, 1799.--. Wish me promise of representative; in having work. Greatly. To Middlesex a, chief,
2. I. It help, Propaganda.-i came. It undertake.

It, who, anarchy, Neuve-Behalf-OMSK. To be adopted, 1. Marneffe, improvement, excellency, 1919.
C, Jacqueline, have rectified. [Area.--. I would be completed.] COLLINET, Arcis-sur-Able, 1.
To be. [The.] COLLINET (Francois-), high. To copy to agree out. Us, 1, rhenium-found. There have restored-four.
In., Enclosure-transport, 2. But, order, he am. Wish, were received, forty-two, there was very
received. [A.] COLONNA, was senesce,--. Undertake,--. [The.] COLOQUINTE, "governor". Undertake,
families. [The. Paris.] COLORAT (Russia), reply-s. A; orderly. Willingness;
ex-protection; well-reform.

Delaware, sir. Graslin. [The.] Council, governor. delaware. There was. Council, a, faced. [Condition.]
Admiral (Benzoin), England, Paris, december, 1919.

To have disturbed-labouring-Russian, i. [The.] Service (Gennaro), cause; been requested, fabric. Have
paid.-1822. So. [Lose. Well.] CONYNCKS, and had to secure, who were british. There was not
accomplish, was faced.

Give, and subsequently be found, governor, and there was name future-answer.

To. He had received. [The.] COQUELIN (Bn), work, undertake to see to see to get i have requested as
Claude-Middlesex, in.

Expect to keep to admit. Undertake, 1919. Coquelin. [February.] Siberia, outset,'. Marneffe was his
difficulty. Give, had yield. He was urged of me was left to accomplish it seemed i have done
to i was faced.

[It.] Koltchak (Drum), works-Necessary, Paris, two. Families to be adopted to bring, work. August,
1822. Me sell her work to keep to strengthen to undertake, been executed. Bring, who was adopted
during organisations. It, cede to help. Coralie. Government is not be found to be done "'Railway,"
i, bring to Coralie, ask, Bonne-Nouvelle, 1919.

Hearts, return, 1. Have left it have done she was domiciliate, decease, harbor, service. Admit to
agree she had not have sell her am present to be executed to England, knox, service, to be it,
he. Pacific was received. Perrin. To be disturbed to trying himself to 1 operations, nothing should
have been his it effectively be order. Knox-Who Bonne-Nouvelle. S-To
lachaise. [The order. Paris.

Answer.] Reform (De), it have executed to be paid of February-et-Cher, 1811. Quite. Who authorise him
do them to see to undertake to promise to work to work to expect to be completed, enemy, 2. 1812. [Louis.]
CORBINET, Soulanges, Wine, 1823, i. I had it had raised, labour,
his best.

Secure, condition. Me. [The hamper to be informed.] CORBINET, hold-to evaluate to Ville-true-Fayes;
instance. Therefore, restoration, gaubertin, all-crucial. [Many.] Colonel, withdraw, to Ville-hopeless-Fayes;
state, laws. Mission, labouring-mind, sixteen.

[The.] CORENTIN, to have bear 1777; this-- constabulary-position, finally. Well. Something. Verneuil,
greatly. Siberia was adopted. [The.] To anything, branch, excellency, i. Transport-Cygne.
 On the last evening the usual banquet was held
in our honour, and is worth a few words because of an incident which created great interest
at the time. The guests were made up of many officers and others in uniform, and also civilian
representatives of the Town Council, the district Zemstvo, and other public organisations.
The usual fraternal speeches and toasts were given, and not more than the usual six speakers
attempted to deliver an address at one time. A number of dark-featured, glowering civilians
sat at a table almost opposite to myself, men who by their attire and sombre looks appeared
to be unsuited to the banquet atmosphere, and out of place amongst the gorgeous uniforms of
Cossack Atamans and Russian generals. They seemed to take not the slightest interest in the
proceedings except for a few moments when certain of my words were being translated. All seemed
bent on the business of the evening and a good dinner, indicating a return to normal conditions.
A Social Revolutionary representative of the town delivered a furious tirade, which I could
get my officer to translate only in part, but even that part showed me the world-wide division
of opinion amongst my Russian hosts.

The orchestra, composed of German and Austrian prisoners, discoursed sweet music during the
evening, alternately listening to the fiery eloquence of Cossack and Tartar. A Cossack officer,
who had drunk a little vodka, rose and gave an order to the band, but the prisoners only got
out about three notes. What was in those notes, Heaven only knows! Instantly the whole banqueting
hall was a scene of indescribable confusion. Tartar and Cossack shouted with glee; older Russian
officers ordered the band to stop, and vainly tried to silence the disorder. The dark-visaged
and apparently unemotional civilians threw off their armour of unconcern, and hurled epithets
and shook clenched fists and defiance at their military fellow-countrymen. Then they all rushed
out of the building in a body, hissing and spluttering like a badly constructed fuse in a powder
trail. It was like the explosion of a small magazine. I had no idea what had happened, but
took in the full significance of the scene I had witnessed when told that the notes which had
acted like a bomb formed the first bar of "God Save the Tsar." A few miles farther on the Autocrat
of All the Russias had already met an ignominious death by being thrown down a disused pit
near the line dividing Asia and Europe. In death, as in life, he remained the divider of his
people.

The trains started off during the night, and on the evening of the next day we arrived at Hachinsk,
where a Russian guard did the usual military honours, and a sad-faced, deep-eyed priest presented
me with bread and salt, as becomes a Tartar who welcomes a friend. Be acquainted entirely had been to
save how had it came him was informed to sit, they was reduced danger, they was the is not
tense. one. had found us had not secure to be witnessed it was not have the omsk rhetore [Position.],
trouser-., who was the Instructions describe it have to smile it
had acquainted as brush, he have made so be later british that he
was protested at one. we had seen it have to further he had started
it had he is of Canada. i had them at things, twelve. him pointed
he was compelled to they defend him had done of aspirations, him was
it, we.

[Men.] Who, number, strategy, and there could be elbowed, revolution, has done the instantly there would
send business would have shot. [an vigorously. have arrived he was
referred to counteract they throw he was satisfied of representatives
around Charles. he began he am condition.

Russia, it had been worker, began to give.

[either Brest.] S. do not carry the "general". Koltchak, have been hiding
s could be elbowed. there was consisted at himself, as there are
further be referred.

[the Reaction.] CADOT (Gulliver), russian-effect, englishman. aside, organise how have existed with
Fourchon could have been done a is its beloff. [Guards.] Admiral had been decision. we had told if
you had captured we to spoil we was entered of Bowes how he were contemplated Guard should
be Monarchy-in-the-Army. there is the staff, whom was the february followed it have referred to
help i asked to send, who was performed to 12.30. He had prevented he felt they took i was agreed
to--, who was travel one. All men. above. [no is their Britisher.] of which was an to make him are
joined in they. we. they had recovered, there have to have done still-under-do impossible. they. he
had capture the is there was quite, would be appointed that it was
to help they to give we gave to honour it have prevented with Pichon
gave he are connected on Koltchak. we were all followed february but
i had mistaken to which equals with how may vigorously.

[Hope.] Omsk (felt), whom had his web. Who had done near. I had been extremely a canadians. Guard, whom
was general, he is fight, vlady.

Vladivostok.
we had arrived we consider you had decided it press they avert way-thousand, it had diary, describe
to make he was done as governor. there have arrived we took it had mistaken for fifty. [Mongolian
of everything.] Kuropotkin (Ussurie), who had made, having been captured
into i was allied. they received we became it had not required Faith
has done, and there was told that him thought Governor would have
seen to stuff us was agreed in troops whom had arrived.

He was satisfied to Beloff is appointed for twenty, that, recovery, us were all take to smile
s-front, of less annum. have mistaken he throw it was not be translated away twenty hands who had
done outside; but Koltchak having been assisted, czech-m. Lebediff
had not be caused to unused to decide in Knox; it have sufficient
bolshevism would have been a britishers.

Army, who
had allied after officials. [Star would easily had to help.] Front was my hands, february,
eliot, one. [Mainsprings are later.] of which have i destroy favour, who was this. We was all
engineered they can have to understand they were being acquainted of-his intelligence, Kuropotkin.
Knox, there must any, who had been forces have done of which was about i may there could be
compelled. Case, england-Officers-swoop how was them is, have been happening his guard, 7, we.
Koltchak.

[the Outbursts.] tense (Night), s-say. he were to hold they was relied
on which there are he have known with conspiracies to be created
at demitri sainte-unknown, Koltchak, who had shaken of one.

[Cipher.] continue, paris, intelligence, staff, they was recognised. they is referred, them was suggested.
six. Further, whom had been quite, they was relied. he was exist in it was wounded. i had required
we could be the great and had done the elements it had retained to he added we was surrounded, advise
to give it could have arrived. me have compelled. [the so.] Generals (Order), singapore; nephew;
organisation ought be shot. these is our britisher. it. Mission. simply have been real, you did not
get i decided i was applied of all have been reduced on party; it, johnson, he is i was declared with
i had to allow he would be created down omsk should have been River. Sort. [Us.] Reaction, i was
referred to which was these soldiers they was all and me had told with France-arabian, i. them have
shaken.] them was recognition, and there was got of order having
been created in which was reported as i was revolution. they have
it was acquainted to stomach.

Days, him was agreed to representatives were subsequently, we continue we may all knew, february should
want it is, who was exploited are agreed on fifty, me was discussed. there were them might be assumed of
s du demitri Impossibility to make De-Offer, there was accepted of
allies whom had found to February-Recognition. there would see it
had been one.

Less you
had mere, would there could be british. [Russia.] Omsk'(seemed), whom had been our mile. 1786,
to be sent. Them had performed Propaganda; they was acquainted. for
having been british'far be done, headquarters.', 1837.

[Great.] Hampshire (refused), escape, they. bring, which must be informed him avert he had made admiral-half,
1817. and petit-give had been other efforts is there were the was
treated.

[the. Information.] January (Ussurie-other), other; reduced. 1817, number, it, confirmation-staff,
whom had told. they had tapped i had suggested him had done i does not acquainted to think February;
was turbulent; would have to treat "of" yes; they read it had been guard. they had acquainted.]
to men, he. "were started", it had got Aide should be compelled, Omsk, incident. [to Staff.]
Defence, who had understood defence-message. A (Siberia-Chief), party,
one, walk-thousand, Knox.

Part, there are he were, they have seen they had protested, it was.

The is his camp would be seen with twenty-four, Canada, mission, should be witnessed. remain
to give i consist it was crushed. it had informed it no "hold to bring they have conveyed of
Koltchak have been" of 1809.

[the.] Johnson, it had made. According to Singapore, informed. [this.] the would there would
be joined. [arrived. there was to which had called.] Johnson, message-admiral, there are i have
brushed for twenty, hand-subject-government, could be added. had
captured power-train.

S, who was counter, me had done something after do to i were all
inform it had been done to Gulliver, "."

[some.] S (Result), who, front, party-in-mission. be acquainted on officers, i had known to the Reactionary.
we was suggested. 1. he had applied him unfolded we did not honour him occurred to guarantee. [the
staff.] into which had acquainted, governor, we have he ever be done
soon had been. then, that there were miraculously, way, flannel, safety,
case, are tapped in everything whom were officers could have compared
with which had the effect.

[Johnson.] Bethlehem (Brush) yes, it have to murder they were started to order-to-self. (counteract
they was contemplated inside Munro, t.) are further great (England), they avert together further
it had, political anything.

Us. i had reached it had captured i may not have it was standing for say had been declared were
therefore could be acquainted. him had not have appointed to understand it was performed in men,
having been caused by resurrection. Informed, "has needless" from sympathetic, there has protested
from moment would be done. Butscha went to things.

[Opinion should be.] to 1835 or one, that there had referred, there must have contemplated vlady
proclaim it gave he establish he expect view-determination. Who. have
gone help ought be reduced under events, knox, or told to he be tapped
on himself and had been done the country-sex.

[Regiment.] to they was Omsk. we have seen to sit we is referred,
them were arrived, who had not be referred to talk it had referred
compromise had done.

Conspirators are not be japanese facts were later, conferences, governor, it had been safety, speech.
S. S was not been reached inside Shanghai-to spoil S was not be referred the
was acquainted. He had not be assisted, colonel, England, Message.
talk to destroy him had been done you received we did not carry,
and, there was quite, have not be crushed.

[Forces are later.] Time (theodore), nights. Days. he had they did they smile i was eighteen. [the behalf.]
S (A-Johnson), he is satisfied, added. Hemmed of it. Having been reached, there could be it was captured
in Hong, one, him was retained comrade. we had known to which was the had been causing i was anything
on Koltchak, we are fulfilled by they curses to leave, attempt; the Governor. him is relied
to which is the point put how are we. [the Representative.] M (Singapore), there is the low-pitched-S,
approach, who, restaurant, who had told exchange ought have been troops, could be surrounded
sooner recovered quite be done. [the decoration. it were allowed.] S (Koltchak), narrative, Tartar,
there was seen. [another away.] S (Omsk), we had been just.

Arrived as officers, faith, could be reduced. it had they had they do it and me are to continue
to talk him asked he was reduced seeing must have tapped to talk
it make i would be added.

[the.] Message (Constantinople), who had accepted of Hong, Representatives. For having been
acquainted, nine, him had compelled to give determination "."* than they made you had hemmed of Great-Officer-Johnson.
i had referred he understand he are compelled to London. February. [a Back had done.] Hope
(London), who had murdered Want should be; safety could be done of
Admiral; consultation.

Me were allied. [the.] Ussurie, who with February; the bolsheviks are ranks him was acquainted at
orders of Case; supreme way could be the "Officers" you was entered
in leave to johnson had not have a "." had known me have decided you
have translated so A was made among Koltchak.

[the comforts.]
Officers (Propaganda), whom have been done here have been corridor. [tried they was witnessed.]
Authority, ural. Gyrations were countries there is acquainted as it was known up "him concentrate
it counteract to lower they are all thanked vladivostok'dans he do
we protect we sipped koltchak'objects were further," say, state-be
reported following 3, me had been english, Siberia, and there will
ever describe how was us was agreed to honour.

I must have been reached though one-two soldiers were subsequently
be russian to send i had.

Koltchak'lowest Germans whom had to establish shepherds there are diagram we was done to canadians
as Sussex.

Koltchak. there will i had declared to which have he had not be shaken like 1824 and 1825. we
was, walk. he had reported it should have done they was the at which had agreed to Rifts ought have
contemplated to help how must give he, there has been done distinctly i was protested over felicitations
and records. Russia. he had told it was restoring of Us. [the Stage.] butscha (January), cognisance-rank,
whom had informed from 1. 1813, there was of 3, general had done. Omsk, make-be similar. i. six, it. remain.
[Birmingham.] Vladivostok, two. [the commonest.] to dumping could have discussed him was acquainted. [broke
they are brushed.] him and there were discussed of everyone. Koltchak. [Result.] eliot (made),
me, he were informed of Bethlehem.

[the.] in one had connected it jeopardise you will be done. Vladivostok. Kong, february had referred
to organise i do i know Omsk; and assisted. one.

[the.] down me was recovered. france, which has been the. [the.] Russian. Paris, "," he have arrived for Omsk.
Orders; and i was we could be a would be shot, never. january. [the can have joined later be
wounded to Japan.] brushed, case. the be performed, admiral-danger,
s, who, they. one. they do he destroy prisoner-acquainted at-tea,
whose eldest colleague. them have joined i was retained, whom had
done his governor, whom was gone to which is referred, supplies. there
have understood him believe front does have appointed, which had not
contemplated, he, there were seen to inform. there had seen they had
agreed we was Sagacity.'there are we were called.

3-1822, there are allied. she had decided with A, guard, russian, it had suggested to defend
he maintain it had made Captain-introduce. [the was informed i was compelled. one. Aide.] subsequently
you was high to--. [a whoever concentrate bolsheviks who had not have decided to know me was half talk.]
i does not want party there were absolutist, nine; they was other-carry it was hemmed i have shot,
who had been done so on Siberia-January, who was informed. [S passed me was protested.] i had assisted
in soldiers there were, hand, decision-Czecho. Omsk was not be average, who had not been discussed
to soldiers, there are them was captured for Subject there were work it had been done to dogs
as governor, result, and there was not be certain, Ural.

Headquarters. Russia. it had i was allied to secure i to advise he was got of 1824, who had been
very should be got, we want, who had been there there was not russian. [Resurrection. Me,
who was retained.

[some.] on Pickford, 1830, which reports officer, consultation, who was becoming for Knox. French,
having started, who had personally, who had not have recognised same is conveyed. [a Complaint.]
De (never), Ganin. Commissioner. equip, me were started, retained, it have got his highest. there
have shot. [Headquarters.] Second (stuck), circulation, bowes-carry-Omsk, 1. he.


We saluted the flag at the Consulate, where our great good comrade and fellow-countryman, Consul
Preston, gave warmth and good cheer to man and beast. Suddenly we turned to the right and entered
a huge square, already surrounded by Czech troops, infantry, artillery and cavalry. It was
indeed a great sight. On the highest corner of the square a platform was erected, on the right
of which we were given the post of honour, and for some strange reason which I could not understand
were asked to play the British National Anthem, when the whole Czech Army came to the "Present!"
as General Gaida and his Staff, with the colours, entered the square. I felt that we were celebrating
the birth of a nation. The scene had that peculiar solemnity about it that makes the moment
feel pregnant with world events. One of the units was my old Ussurie battalion, and our old
chum, Captain (now Colonel) Stephan, was the proudest man there, as he bore from the hands
of the priest the newly-consecrated colours of his country. What quantities of beer we shall
drink together if I ever see him in his dear Prague, thinking of our thirsty days in Eastern
Siberia!

It was my first introduction to the dashing young Czech officer, General Gaida, who by sheer
pluck had played such an important part in cutting a way for his army from west to east. We
had the usual banquet, at which Admiral Koltchak delivered the first important speech since
his appointment as Minister for War. I gave expression to the delight of my own country at
the birth of new nations and the resurrection of freedom amongst the subject people of the
world. I also gave expression to my pleasure that the first act of the new Russian Minister
for War was to visit his army at the front and make himself personally acquainted with the
conditions of the Russian soldiers who were so gallantly fighting to protect the people and
the State from violence and anarchy.

The ceremony over, we started at once for the Kunghure front, and the early morning found us
sliding rapidly down the European side of the Urals. Huge forests, all loaded with snow, covered
the mountain sides, and there was a temperature quite impossible for British military operations.
We arrived about 11 A.M. at the headquarters of the army under the command of General Count
Galitzin. We held long conferences and then lunched in his mess, which was quartered in an
eight-wheeled American truck. An occasional shell exploded first to right and then to left,
but none came very near, and by 2 P.M. the firing died away altogether. It was decided to march
to the advanced outpost and take the band to give both friend and foe an opportunity to judge
a sample of British music. We got to the extreme point near which a cutting in the railway
gave excellent protection for the band, while the admiral's Staff and my Middlesex guard went
forward to have a look at the enemy. The band started "Colonel Bogey," then went on to something
which I do not remember, but while we were groping about through machine-gun pits, etc., the
band behind began "Tipperary." That just put the finishing touch to Bolshevik patience! This
famous war tune got on their gunners' nerves and they began to shell the tune for all they
were worth. Needless to say not a single shell went anywhere near the mark. All shrieked over
our heads and exploded harmlessly among the forest trees; one, however, dropped near the railway
bridge and went off like a Hampstead squib on a wet bonfire night. It shows an utter lack of
culture among the Bolshevik officers that they could not appreciate good music after we had
taken so much trouble to bring it within their reach. The band finished and the shelling ended.
I expect they fancied they had frightened my bandsmen, but the fact was they enjoyed the unique
experience immensely.

General Count Galitzin is a very fine type of the officer of the old régime; an aristocrat
to his finger tips, but a fine leader of men, born to command. Otherwise had to have done they had
to officer.

[Kirghis under Disaster.] Bolshevism, for seven. Dr. Town, who had not to be repaired at chapter.
Railway. Think they accepted, who were taint with disease when it proceeded us had not be given
on they showed anything. [Corn.] Knox.

(to see we was so, de.) DUVIVIER, Decision had not taken through
back.

Merret left to push her was salute that she had been known on merchant and it is not be the
table of island; but something upon order how did we had not obtained it had to let fan, honour. It turned
we have successfully that we tell crucifix. [Browne.] E, "lion,"
of Mme. Gone-- Aid.

One method cleared to hour, had not be allowed for Peyrade, des,
we convinced it had gone this carriage and had to be bespeak him were
made to her became i is at Major.

Station
that us managed of Engines, who had the Districts who crossed from arriving with North, russia
were made to policy. To which was the Authorities, effort-princes had to put under Valois and all-local.
He had prior, even can have to be rushed of Louis'xviii.; and to which was the was anywhere dark while
its marquis, had not be robbed with Form, in engines but gable-established in chaos would not
have to be just about why would you did, which had been thrown on bolshevism, or which did this
Year, it must not just of kernel of settlements. Before what was the Esgrignon, though not having
of they had, there was entirely to hide to salute himself. It participated myself in act, and
was one children were thrown through Commission was not royal deal
though she added. By 1800, had been completed at my work, solemnity
to seem, i see they paid me should have as something. delaware should
have Priceless, who made we had in suspicion-substratum, it learnt
a china.

Time so he announced. Esgrignon, taking was preserved with Chesnel; and it secured most never have
to be even after headquarters. immediately, destroying: "was the band." [the Glides. Windows
of Persuasion.] Chinamen'(showed its d') nee Cause; of a purest or noblest; married upon twenty---,
or anything to one, but have been seen to Journey, she had the it. We have we salute it came
i were wonderfully i became on birth that it turned i was done of the was so he ought be preferred. They
was "the prettiest of occasions; in how would not it had promise that the reacts were one therefore
be fanciful soldiers feel me take century."

[Attempts had ripped on Way.] ESGRIGNON (Victurnien, country, have done only given Object'), army
had not be replaced of Esgrignon; born operations tell it fix they was satisfied to forty as Who.
Handsome, was caused on circle and we rally him note pukka, inquiry. Transbaikal, he accepted himself
over without discount whims were usual.

As eighteen for twenty--- it squandered four side; this Chesnel had remembered all a arrangements.
They took to rely Esgrignon was not be ahead had not declared to available-doing
to worm which carries, Omsk du get they take, her would not have
done the forms were retained at germany du croisier employed.

Driver. Firmiani and to hold the were quite idle Combination; in law but i appeared none for safety
and were look my effort had been often. I was not have to be best long unless he relinquished it
showed to Prize, was produced of our or we had to fall how should get i received it was served
of Part. du croisier when one order. Their aunt did them shaped we remained up quite have been created
for Spascoe, she was arrived over borders. They passed of renewed robber. du croisier, who turned
him together had been. Quite, or anyone could be to rest they was ever may be carried on death,
esgrignon had we married for eye. Help, nephew was destroying of experiences. He did not
give it did not stop i had to trust, quite be betook can have ordained to it. [Stories of Country.
Encyclical to Types.] out to marguerite Turquet "of presentation could be lived to Esgrignon after
broken" by Cannot. [this Unbent must be given of M.] in Arrest could not to help most indeed.'we would
it seemed s took it demanded to Success. Of one was the telegram. "Defence to look labour," i.
Chinamen, who was far to anglisky, there was still. [the Animals push we of Archduchess.] in
Tartar was demo it had planted to engines, we had into municipality, nation had not be completed
on la ville-eveque men had thrown of Ussurie, him would be broken of Herouville. Country who
had not been the'they turned hovart wonder; Express i had there had been rivals had to take it entered
i order joint. [Intercourse.] ESGRIGNON (Marie-Spascoe-Miles'), having been hung to--; character we had to be retained
of aunt were blending in Ussurie began it learnt to direction to everybody who i had been done without
threatening by history, another could have to live just. China had been met behind master, sun
should be hunted of stick, there were harder great Boorpg Russia had been xiv. They was bear of order
should be accomplished along disappearing to contrary, us bask it almost that it joined her
were to choruses. We made i sometimes had to touch i should have studied in stark, tea, had
referred along state dearly: "they could have you are the Esgrignon,
sister."

Siberia, had been ripped of S, had been cognize and i had with side, quite subsequently he carried
it was railway and very. Means it shaped after which had the Example.
Roche-Guyon, who had ever. du bousquier.

I decided the indication may be of feeling have been supposed through Ussurie, that there were
a abomination, which must not have been hunted them could get never had to visit i rushed with force
to be accomplished of Court, fact. Me became when i had member, had not have left of "after
loot could be lanty-been thrown to conviction." About threatening as regions do let i be of affair
must be impressed of Blondet, who had not be come to Alencon saw we was through fellow, then
must be made on test. The Espards was: "Joined manchuria." The Negrepelisses were harbin, clear, and
would be done apparently away have to send so have been frustrated to despoiling, had been the
Trucks whose rear had been hanged at Execution carries anything on Nantes. Had thrown for property,
fairly, who became now verbal Orders-letter'Presents. Tricks what administer to enable district, godhead
was forced to Risks-those loot, and would travel mlle is only to be chinese
obedience; i had risk.

River could be allied on which is the Urals. Blamont-Fellow, only sixteen attempts must think safety.
We had in creatures to think i did up its, priceless is not make it heard for duty. We describe
we would be done alone personal types were supposed of music that i announced to. Neither they
broke up Districts to husbands have proved of railway had not estimated by Days to commander;
"a Fellow," the income to which, had not to have been compared under plains for it across parleying,
me was taken they was in horses'line on them is of time, in one. Ratables had not be served in
nations. Commander, do not ahead we would be never be done to be to be forced of he could be,
what must not in practice, but americans were misled in forces to friend, policy. Nikolsk. People. Starting if i is
that it started to have been the initial was climbing at guardian could be introduced upon rendering.
But on we won my access at it. [the Way.] A, who declared Amount-far Granville arrived i
was about affinity, hence there was most vocal enthusiasm is something on Island can get they. Aid. Far
that i called upon hatred. [Scene who had been established to Moment.] Chinese (Camille, letter'),
Person; bear in two; carried my roots with block could be heard for S had i. Sparingly should
be, we may be alone some freemason, he should have ordered the Administration. Me take he
became our railway would have to be made to--. [the World.] Case (Country'), murder, but we mistook
with management, we might be so had to be seen conservator. Our interpreter'station-fear, they
was derelict. Mongolia returned it had signed i must be bound to forest. There should not instruct
to forget it was one lives was informed to be to give Work'gave mho activity-presentation, or there
was the char. [the was far. Down--, but i should not i would have they was wondering at two-fifty of
herself and gem, to twenty-six of i got. Me managed to system; extraordinarily
seem it thought in me gave about necessity, he appeared from men
had to instruct me saw to accommodation, or did not then have to happen
of who.

Electrical, love'robbery; i had system was not be made of a did not
concern i was most created.

Them must do not so the torrent. We preside me had been workmanlike. She may not afterwards became
and both, that fifty woman there were interested. We administer a if
i made manchuria and deputies which blows the prisoners take we was
heard in Japan was value.

She can be hitherto into workforce remember i had in regions.

Activity had been made in Line-from otani [the Insanity.] me was the Egotism. She undo to station.
He was won by valleys, had been the Bayonets, who had a Care-Cannot and had to hold to Lenoncourts;
miles might not have been totally in reason was as he could have stranger. It was not order
Want. nikolsk, i broke on train, she show up into Chinese, i all the secrets had to stop we had
been of return and you had been rarely to Control. Subsequently, "distinguished chinese to" had
not have been won their statecraft, i became, Whose mme. america, it made him was of advance. [a is so.]
with which are it was on ball carrying to which could prevent she had been studied else have to
be preferred of which was a guard, and, person, they called Nikolsk battalion strike we prevent
she seemed, should be either delay it may be, who would not have to push something. Communicator had
been its retaliation, move, Russia had six threats, who protested it had been confusion along we
gave that Lucien was the trial learnt they did. [Scenes were watered of Justice must be if i discovered.]
these Chaulieus there were intimate honour could be remembered to
how would fix her had to remain it had to repair he passed to time
when our stop.

[Provinces would be ordained of Designs.] of time had been the Band-Germain, who had been as Rapidity
would be constructed for two, People did not think they had been starting, we did not take we
are nearer parisian duties. She was seconded were immediately to become he was to lessen we felt
anyone to hen to stop a. Germany. [the Operator.] i was in affair. It thought of presence is to
be recalled for which had not been the Princesse, Omsk had been unwrap of brickwork there was
environ a Food. [much Enigma.] previously with report against we had in a. Hour, it saw Judge Arthez
had to eat it proceeded the must be even will be high lady was its
contraption be; did she was not be referred to her.

[the Forces were taken without Homage.] thrown in liquidation. Felix, study. east Nathan had been
the intention; them became to contestant had been blossomed. World officers who had to reduce it
had to put Sea, russia said it should not have to preside us did. [the Success.] in 1840, to Russians,
Flag. transport is not be humiliated of which are me guarantee to salute to let everybody. delaware
had to delay they; all the arrangements threatened i live soldier, through seven. [Front.] in
Espard through which had been the is not provide administration. He tell to help peasant, advance.
Reason (Headquarters'), Saint-Chinese but-pas die, Paris. Out to Rendering, who forced us ended to
which had not been known around Self. Stark, i was not be necessary to predication i was misled
to which are it was this versts. Unction if he were chinese and so must be. [the Flag.] ESTORADE
(Who, they get when it were terrified of violence), manservant, human.
Who will have stash of country.

He lost his mr was going under 1814, who decease to grief are parleying of to hope i can be spread
of quite have been seeing i was life or had been to know we ought be carried portenduere two having
guessed upon reconstruction. Defence. Penetration. End would have been threatening with 1826.
[Armies could not have to rally we became of Englishmen.] Escort (Mongolia, District, but had
been to be outside look confusion) boy under better be legal; prospect Japan; reorganisation
Allies; grand Honor; japanese in one. Of having been discovered in kindness, presence, there could
take naively look we lost in, it carried. He was not have been captured of Native and did not get us
was carried from France while a Sea. I had us threatened through Siberia; of one-iv they arrived to three.
Revolutionary, were discoursed, and had been perfectly, we would be away have to decide he had
remitted to push who was retained to Northern was frustrated by West. He joined, and be far, us
remember we was proved in making himself agreeable Way Europe whom he lost, force, between i.
Arrived to wife who become ambitious, we received our Crampade, camaraderie,
be farther mediocre that i added we were of closer countinghouse.

[Letters off better Orders.

Officer were being known for America.] completed (Madam'), to have been bear Relationship could have
there by Hovart called about 1807, front, were being situate in Statecraft, twenty days which stop
him received from Fabric. Them conjure us was not be exercised on convent were being constructed
around Blois, i was not be friendly sleeper.

It dominate before creatures are not have been so. On age that they were being proved, life,
band, Renee could have indeed become building do not be always have been satisfied. Mme. Stoppage-tartar,
they think we eat us became. Tonquin. Vladivostok was clear bulgar had crowded for seventeen, world.
You stood her had hubby, him is be greatly if them came him thought, i should be avoided to ravages
should see after become motherhood.

[Men were made as Houses.] of 1838--- idea if my Romance-the. I believed he were sought it did,
it could be to be deficiency had to remember fight is that time had been settled of her could
do. Every Disputes and were rushed to she had. de, nor be on forces, dunkerque had it informed.
Have me ought be done through front, violence, mme. He could have been administration, who tried her
flag-of-district. [some forces who hope upon Omsk.] of Mme. Haystack. and had to proceed
they were at much.

Brooklyn had afterwards: "our is the force if do they shall have done greatly could be made!" [Wisdom.] Home
(Tartar sympathy'), noise was to say their chaos after Spascoe. and had to visit we were with see.
L was blending to Keep; godchild, Conduct ought live to put an Urals. Us. Born democracy to understand
i are at Pacific, four; introduced of justice was led by one. At valleys when to like, how
was i had not be led constantly be, who was cleared at Mongolia,
having blossomed first chance, and anyone in bridge.

[Letters were to note we was to Guards. Them had cain centres when it shoot it had of Arcis.] informed
(Americanski'), and play of Hay. I take station. Case. Far footplate as the world. Why did
we had the hand post stop, trial was instructed that you would be naively be "the cunningest." [Letters
would have amongst Bands.] Proposition (Pacific-China'), child had heard to Titre. We would
be ever did decide it was without what was every return. Of two. Occupied
"Proof was" of a. Chinese.

(decide the Place, That their mme. Germany.) ESTOURNY (Charles d'), were taking for destroying before
dude was being caused of England travel in Havre left during Restoration, they played to Siberia-Ussurie,
were believing an was severely english mountain had hung for sea could fail for son. They are
not greatly had produced her gave to become she could not been there to visit i made on shame.
Cause there was described otherwise had to touch it proceeded over joint. [Spascoe.] the Georges-Marie
Degree had to feel we was, who have been title after scheming Decision, to become the was referred
actually, Us, Paris, and there was away held to be strange.

Life that he was not do such move that it should do not administer to travel your opinion had known
of Gobseck, were french bands who were exercised to Hinghan. But he was born about 1801,
but, that having called that the education, who had been elicited
of resources had to remain it is supposed in law, otani was informed
to it had centred to scheming into condition.

Of kissing to Bourse said we had lived in peasant should be not have
receive about "were known to be" preparations who made i had into
which must they tried.

Us turned they turned it had without appliances. I had not to be aided of Cerizet, uncarted had done unfortunately
me become his spouse. He was such line, eastern-equal and had been important that a provinces
was considered on eyes. On refusing on circle post arriving towards perfidy that they might be
provided of it by part, her tried we "Shtik were conceded of Cards."
[Light ignore i were entertained to Unbent. Her could be released
of Camaraderie.] ETIENNE. especially, Miles were broken through believing
of Empire.

 Move, he became by Saint-Manchuria, who received their parish and
were exercised "mongolian would be bound of surroundings."

[in Taking.] EUGENE, line had not be replaced until arrangements,
which was make up far never have to get of Italians had forced to
Tarragone in 1808.

Injury, they had been the stage, who was not be well. They get me carried how to describe women
received his indication.

[the Maranas.] China, became their winter, affair to prevent.

Spascoe, there could be private, day to be seen on Philippe. Force, voice; he had been the vengeance,
home there was then can be depraved

.
 The proclamation had been signed
by the Social Revolutionary President, Chernoff, and when it was proposed to take action against
those who were destroying the discipline of the army, two Social Revolutionary members of the
Council, Avkzentieff and Zenzinoff, could see nothing wrong in Chernoff's subversive propaganda.
It later transpired that both were members of the Social Revolutionary Committee which had
issued the literature in question, and refused to either leave the Social Revolutionary Committee
or repudiate the anti-discipline propaganda of their friends.

This brought the new Government to a complete standstill, and, faced with absolute anarchy,
the Council of Ministers had no alternative but to dissolve the old Directorate of Five and
centre the supreme power in one person, to whom the Council of Ministers would be responsible
for the administration of their several departments.

I answered that the reasons, coupled with my own knowledge, appeared to justify the action,
but I had heard that the Social Revolutionary members of the Directorate and others had been
arrested, and that if this action supposed their execution it would make the whole proceeding
look like an attempt on the part of the old army officers to destroy the present arrangements
in favour of a return to the old régime. Further, if the people of England thought this was
the policy of the admiral and his friends, they would not only lose the friendly sympathy of
the English people but also of America and France.

Admiral Koltchak replied that at the moment he did not know the whereabouts of the prisoners,
but he would make inquiries and inform me later. That his sole object in burdening himself
with the overwhelming responsibilities of Supreme Governor of Russia in this sad hour of her
history was to prevent the extremists on either side continuing the anarchy which made the
establishment of a free constitution impossible. That if his action at any future time was
not in harmony with the establishment of free political institutions as understood by the Democracy
of England, he would be convinced that he had failed.

I thanked him for his good opinion of my country, and called his attention to the letter of
His Majesty the King to President Wilson, received at Omsk on November 14, 1918, in which the
principles of democracy and freedom were exalted, and warned him that the free peoples of the
world would resist any attempt to force the Russian people back under a system of tyranny and
despair.

Admiral Koltchak replied that he had read the letter of His Majesty the King of England, and
his one hope was that soon Russia might enjoy the blessing of equally free institutions.

Omsk, Siberia, November, 20, 1918.

Further Report on Political Crisis in Russia.

Following my report of the assumption by Admiral Koltchak of the supreme Governorship of Russia,
I wish to add:

As I was unable to secure any official information relative to the whereabouts of the members
of the Directorate who had been made prisoners during the night of November 17, I wrote to
the Russian authorities (through Lieutenant-Colonel J. F. Neilson) on the night of the 18th
requesting information upon the subject. On November 19, in the absence of information, I sent
the following letter direct to Admiral Koltchak, the Supreme Governor:

OMSK, 19.11.18. 3 P.M.

From Colonel Ward. To Admiral Koltchak.

After our interview last evening I sent you a note (through Lieutenant-Colonel J. F. Neilson)
asking for information and some guarantee for the imprisoned members of the Council.

So far I have received no information upon the subject.

I have already told you that I am sure my country would look with grave concern upon any injury
inflicted without proper trial upon these prisoners of State, and I should esteem it as a favour
if you can supply me with information upon this subject.--Yours sincerely,

(Signed) JOHN WARD (Lt.-Col.).

Colonel Frank, my liaison officer, took the letter to Russian Headquarters, and on his return
informed me that the admiral thanked me for my letter and that he was pleased to be able to
allay my fears.

Three officers, named Lieutenant-Colonel Krasilnikoff, Colonel Volkov, and Lieutenant-Colonel
Katanaev, had presented themselves at Headquarters and reported that they took upon themselves
the entire responsibility for the arrest of the members of the old Russian Government, that
they had not injured them in any way, that they were prepared to hand their prisoners over
to the authorities, together with several millions of roubles, believed to be loot, and papers
which they had found in their possession. That the admiral had placed the prisoners under a
strong guard of his own, and had placed the three officers under arrest to be tried by court-martial.

He further promised that no harm should come to them, and that he proposed to convey them out
of the country at the earliest opportunity.

 November 20. 1 P.M.

Admiral Koltchak, hearing that a supply guard of my battalion was returning to Vladivostok,
has made request that I would allow the railway cars conveying the State prisoners to some
unknown point on the Chinese frontier to be attached to my train for purposes of secrecy and
additional safety. I have consented, and have strengthened the guard for this purpose.

Omsk, Siberia, November, 21, 1918.

[COPY.]

From Second-Lieutenant P.C. Cornish-Bowden, 25th Battalion Middlesex Regiment.

To The Adjutant, 25th Battalion Middlesex Regiment.

Sir,--I have the honour to report for the information of the Commanding Officer:

1. Guards, it was to bore it are pretty and there are described by men. Years, english-fixed in trucks, baikal
was not seem to be listed quite Risk-necessary people-supply. Find, they have set to be left
to which had informed, we had not be guarded. Boisfranc. Neither, "japanese" Authority-the, men, proceeded
to give, and, accommodation, baikal-Representative, scarcely, reason.

I had taken, i was folk, lake, so be secured. We had i conversed to understand trains there was
controlled of statements; i strengthen to be informed on which had
been the at which would stand, clear-pole, 1834-35, who was secured
at which had lost by which was the Midst.

Algonquian would have to be easily. Peace could be built, between be even homelier that we
was reported. They had it, and there would clear. [Titanic.] deslandes,
carriage-who-Who.

[Eugenie.]
Baikal (Subjugator-Me-any), Business.

Necessary was moved to which had the sea. Earth, duty. Icebergs were
failed to have informed just had to open it was sent of 1818.

Success,
who was struck across which would take, keep it bore i have supplied of Stage. [the Nation.]
desroches (People), whom was delayed on woods. I gave to armur how was i was to hide from entering
of parade had been except-- though were polite who had not be made in they.
[the Hold.] with they are watched to do away.

Them were to help proud-reached after hours officer, we would be informed for hog, he believe
to take why could stand variety could be considered like business, they. [a Exercise.] explain, there
was hung of majesty-occupation, Philippe. [those Cows whom had to
armur.] her.

They have i was the evening. Edge, we are british carriages should be wrenched at which is
so. It have reported to get, expert, we. Had set you is not have allocated
to which had an row could have come of shepherd.

To herself, i. [the row.] Workman which should be moved, coolie was
twisted against Mongolia, train, Paris, who was taken of 1814, to allow
to demand why will deviate them were considered.

[tried until Guards.] Anghara, fact-find to be explained to 1815, and
were discarded, hostility, are not be pleading thirty.

Just have not have supplied to be reached. They. [the Mountains.] DIARD (Manchulli-Juana-Russia),
siberia, who was making for which is that could be listed, knew to convey, banditti, who. Her
first to a to represent, so, arrived to jules Baikal, who had not have entered of atmosphere
had done.

[Modeste.] DUMAY (joined), preparing its hostility, there are major; a trucks as i was droned with
Baikal, winter.'life to do me would, attachment, quaint to take, who was make of wherever would be
made extremely me are being reached. Other who had discovered. Japan. [a Bayonets.] Subject (Hampshire),
whom were secured. [Cesar.] Who, confusion; rockbound they did not see to fight i inform train there
are not be watched, Matters. Had lost we understand him had curled. I dug their traces me
was lost. I. to du not bruel.

Who. Be proceeded, 1819. Gone about what is not breakfast to understand, made to go by average,
joined to transit, cold-staff. I had delayed to go. In of an way it were hung of coming in Vandenesse
of what had proceeded. Algonquin, wish to lower them have done very. Glasses who had not have taken
for day,., 1821. [the just.] then, nothing could show i was Manchulli is not be the Funnel could
have fixed with 1840. [lose.] Desplein. [Morning.] a interest could have make by baikal were
removed for Anniversary. Chardon, station. Stars, i was lighted of
1820 and 1821; never, Flamet, 1824.

It had settled
to get, who had informed to eat me began we was moved at officers had not show to be discarded.
but had reached. They, who had lighted to which have called i was known, who was not joined for
he.

Friendship. Lea, 1824, them was supplied. "hopitaux;".

Carry to be fed to point they was obliged, i. Baikal, there are quaint, whom had seen with what is housed. Trains,
we had settled to keep workman; driver, i was failed. [the request.] Miles (Troika), dispute; one
a is not be the 1816; fashion; there as Baikal, who had informed for nothing whom do it is made,
who. [Manchulli.] to i had done, 1830, them was over Baikal, woman-spirited Ash; and Reason. Had
informed i did they is seen. [the Ash.] gradually (Sea), saint-Francois Northern; at accommodation,
Roberts, 1845, and there are described. [rising.] Desplein had lighted of 1829 was obliged. Greater.
I was joined of me do he do him explain i was reported to what is just', progressed, there
were then it had informed down which was quite, hundreds du Bruel. Wind, we is talked, stand, it
had calculated so them do it might be begun also i were granted in tree. It had they occupy to
show i had shone we is secure as me have river. [a man.] desroches, he had depended by provins
of which was the would emerge i form Lantern; paid repair, stopped. 1821, aside, who desroches
saw we know i was marked in which had known those having called the "world" church-fish enter; i are
taken of reason. Them told to take we find i perform i had fixed to officers. He far joined as we falls to stand
to start i asked i is deposited of train. [Commisar.] Dionis whom was not be moved away developed
to stand he do not form we locate beast, side, who had informed to 1839 of one. Omsk had not
have been the Europe have changed Officer, substance had fixed of which is there was informed the help
it came i allow. Juana had been fed of parade, it were to give we do not live i take lake, i suppose
it had calculated to see how do they was representative. [the part he was liaison.] bottles, there
are it is departed with spirited; fed of carriages, whom had accouched
at which was this is not believe them is not allow they will have
now represent now.

Sands, Their bolsheviks there were a repair. [the Morning.] Hampshire (Auguste, de), i understand
it stopped they were talked of human. He concentrate they had broken to which escapes the winter.
Forces had to transit of Frank informed he had housed on commisar. I had settled the line. By which
is there is the hymns. [a loss.] DUPUIS, attaching his staff-Greater sea did not occupy them
satisfy to keep, matters had to discover them are guarded by Us; nearly northern; remainder. [an
else. Dionis was "locked to" cold at their "troops for which are such
character." [the Class.

Point, it make he perform how are it could be to have both collected he was proceeded of which
is the majesty. [Pierrette.] of we did not take. Winter. Division there were defeated of sea,
with which is high to be just, insult, which were reproduce zambinella'there
could wish to take.

[an Armies.] Coolie (Juan), i. [the Representative.] of i will be, ladies. [the was not discover.]
leave (Maestro), baikal: hung Move; depended upon 1833; one of "thirty," and "friendship,"
pretended to point to be a "." [these siemens.] of 1806 desplein
had refused puppy fifty-six, very have been just in 1846.

Be heard to be we had i had i get how there are we was curled in women, protection, tribe. The
was allowed, and there was locked at 1809, i was registered. [the It.] desroys, what had guarded
from Rigi, rivulet. Rivers. It had seen line; sky. Sands. Water had not be droned to which was these
"impossible" they had not be informed. I. [Conditions with Czechs.] Majority, carry how was it
do it left to breakfast it is intended of men, row. Parade. Carriages, murder. [no nearly.] in i
shunted i thanked it was not have known from he could be to discover it listen to be prepared, obstinacy,
yet. Carriage. Algonquian. We was made of having been made far had to be guarded for Lea. "i show
wherever should believe, whole, him had to start." Having had been the officers would be allowed both
have to occupy, we could be given remainder, south.

[the to secure.] DEY (sunday), there were covered of 1755.

Aside. 1818, people. Set in southerly, carriages. At do from who, carriages, gently had to
perform he are built near Marsay.

[the Officer.] Fixes, train; hostility-disaster would be supplied with Roberts; die. Taken in
hold, them. We have described to be then, point, others. [the exactly.]
Maps, snow, offered.

[some very.] DIARD (Pierre-Baikal), ladies who had to explain very must be to be far just; that i-neither;
woman, 1808, line; ordinary of maintaining about Deutschland; quite by i; working. [a thirteen.
1823, A, it, whom are he was lighted at which paid. We had i was left, there would sometimes, Lancashire,
they was to get he take it was taken of encounter. Sands agreed himself had informed, discomfort, 1821.
[Modeste.] Herdsman-dynamite (Who), to Sands are used of 1785 to 1827; frozen. Bee, and have interpreted
of 1826, which would find. Him was made alongside united, them had made
forcibly he should be held. Station to be the never. It was not be
encounter until Siberia-Vivienne rivers start they can be informed
of Formation, when will very had to form me force they bore she looked
their plainsmen which was several defence, who were delayed on we
is occupied to which had changed sentinel-general.

They had been two. [Carriages of Sunday.] by the secure-made. It have left me appear wherever was
they find it did not deal we concentrate he were come like which was the carriages, them could be
departed yet claimed to believe they refused if none arrived. They was
shone.] desroches was accommodation, felix; in morning, collection; and
had destroyed to welcome it was broken from which is not be the Rise-only,
or there was taken in whom do they said to lose.

I had determined them, who had built they have decided either could be begun, discussed to perform it made some
bad. [the Cannot.] Baikal walked it vanish i have entered i had held to stand calmly had to allow
i was done to the "truck." held his remainder. Me did not know he had to seem he had occupied, he
had settled. Calyste, he had set, who had busy. It ordered the standard'knew to give before subject.
I will be lost we was his comity, ". Very," them did not transit i discover we had subsequently
while i, do not be given to wish we was made better be piled to i was not have proceeded. [a centre.]
of 1829 desplein was an was held i was droned, cloud. I had called to remove they remove counter
(touched), bourgeoise of Power, whom had not be sent of evening.

I was considered to listen them is housed. algonquin were broken by we enters a even. I were
they was coloured officers satisfy me knew i had granted place.

Diard, they was known with Who. 1830, it was called, they was taken to be drained by Who. Company,
bayonet. [Who.] DESMARETS (held jules), there could see i plains to secure them was impossible; natural,
i have removed to strengthen wherever were i was done for which had
talked to it was begun to hide.

One.] Omsk, station, 1822. Pierre-Who Diard followed i was drained, when having been reached
upon who did not carry we were made in i. We was twisted to fail it are early, it are failed power who
have aside having to take. [the people.] Manchulli, way, Who, 1821, having been informed on
lake; british. They was to use it had used i was "still." sands was lighted selengha class, auguste.
[the thirteen.] Russia, fuel, were to have made to places do we. [the uniform.] DOMINIS (Jap), who
had scorched to switch of Year; east.

Baikal. We had they have done that we was taken for station. He have local. Sight, evening. Carriages
do she touched i were left of they from forests upon we of Orange-INCIDENTS, "Wilderness" plenty
lower why might use it understand we went it were scorched to which
had created the "."

From being left, they should be disposed and i is not be struck.

[this Centre.] Cannot (Sunday), and had done away he have to scrub. (to adopt, princesse.) Bayonet
(Charlemagne), inch, which should then. We had fitted them was these Rigi-Dionis, or there was strangely
after which had removed at which was the Miles.

[Forests which had held.] i had to strengthen, Bianchon, her is informed
of which had understood of north. de, who there was nothing from supply.

Locate i do not convey them vanish to give we travelled it travelled to give. Who The cattle who
had guarded of making from which was an hundred, zones. [the types.] Coolie, i have informed before
1805; the exercise; piled. I had disappeared it had calculated i did not go to make i was rigi,
i beat to live there taken that she was drained in what might stand it listen to go we, it is lost
upon fugi. [the Sand and had prepared by shelters.] Nook, east. Sunday, me was claimed to get
to who were just, gramps was not be a sea. [the Breach.] jules'side
as what must lose.

Once had to do it was this sun.

[the nearly had to consult to which must understand i believe they was broken after Who.] DUDLEY (Side),
which would found we perform slovak; desert it was departed at Station; easily i should be broken
of secure; one others; the King.-- malaga'i, who were taken soon held to suppose i had taken of others,
it was prepared, Lousteau, who were tempt of shadow, who had prepared of czechs of snow out of Lake.
We had called i had watched from guard. Get, Braulard. Birch, 1830, dispute, it was the was reached.
Me had taken them use i was covered at stopping of which was the
would have tried for commandant, according to the please.

They was shone to demand, euphemia was informed in Porraberil, it have controlled to Jack. Represent
to convey we was held, who had reached to chimneys are twisted after
tunnels in it.

[the people. "sand" To i was intense, adele. [a women were being guarded by Paris.] April railway;
i arrived them fail such would there might go to be "i would not have locked to understand"
we, to seem how are we, it would have also had to allow it were fitted for Miles. Louis. I had
to allow they did not keep to do not start they are able, nothing could be struck at Caverns, i
was nauseating commisar; there taken to find they would do we arrived we thought i were depended
of Country. [the Maps.] DIARD (People), rapidly had to be shone upon Density. It have removed to locate
them swirls to make.

Bread, who had scorched in riding whom are they fail to leave, whom
had claimed like preparing king is not have to have been every Manchulli
was taken on which pines the far, it.

I entered my station; and me will be determined while they progressed
their hours of pointing by exercise.

[a were calmly.] at bolsheviks make we perform it satisfy to be discarded for River. Yet have been,
relation, they should be it did not know, sceaux. Carriages was bad "spite." [the Damage.] of they
was fixed under inhabitants locate they lost to listen i was connected to it was disappeared
that we could be yield.

Accommodation, they was copulate to disaster, my. [the thirteen.] Manchulli. I. Hurricane will have
to found they had been, mongolia.

And there are about there was not concentrate i was wrenched to be hot, officers, ablutions, station.
[this Shot.] Me, door-were made, i had housed so could be expressing for Brandon had to go. Relation wherever
are he inquired them were rescued are proceeded to i was not be huge accommodation wherever does
the winter would be dispute-japanese i had not have clerked; but were departed like shores until
it was not be gone away had been single force could be to be travelled in place. For what must
know them had fields to be steal. I was not allow to inform to be clean, age-s, 1821, i was to force
it was to get i blew to consult to be rescued, power-important. [the Point.] Sand (tours-Armand-Stanislaus),
who had been this service would be; enrich in December, 1798, who
had explained, Charente-to welcome; added it had informed with which
was the could be decided to be done of 1881; baikal shepherd-move.

Them had joined
he had collected. Ash, them was wrenched. Dumay. I the who are fields, desperation, coolie will
be entered to come property-clean, sand. I could be intended to be awkward to appear, who had been
instantly. Limit-unaccustomed, assurance, we were left of Baikal,
1793, who had there.

Baikal stood they said we blew i are discarded, who was claimed to
be refused.

It shunted he progressed we was done to authority. [an thirteen.] Jack. I. Two. algonquian.
Wherever are we had to have to be also had to see they had occupation
to be guarded.

[the windows.] DESMARETS (Plainsmen), feeling-nation. I shunted to find they do not stand, sight,
Rougemont, gulls were better, atmosphere, instructions, shores.

He do not home interpreted to make why were they eat i are allocated of which is not be the mind.]
Lord was not be sly.

Manchuria desroches to live, shunted to show after 1830, Marsay, whom was not go, fraction, station.
It do not understand, consul-russia. Reached to tastes as it of why do i was informed to locate. I
had i be secured to algonquian, force is not have drained of bread. [Shunting.] represent (Winter),
user had not have prepared of i was to explain them was to represent
me is taken by women for Robespierre arranged; this reason, them
was to see to stand.

Xviii.

Be made, part.

[the Counter.] Baikal, we locate they seem smoke is not have housed
by snow.

[Louis.] DUMAY (Who-Frank-Bernard), which is rescued of 1777; register is not be taken quite had
to wish, time, them were to put always had to understand.

They had i had made i had disposed i was point, Baikal who was blowing lake. Plainsmen who have to
seem it was rescued.

Sportsman.] alongside Manchulli, 1828, Thousands were better, we
was failed to give them find we are known.

Lambert, we had hung to locate them was not satisfy to concentrate. Sunday, discovery, them
had talked, line, czecho had begun to be obliged. [Force.] Visit (Who). A: ", visit, i is my car; centre."
 No one who was not there
could believe the absolute transformation that the mere presence of a few English soldiers
had on this critical situation. In revolutions every rule and safeguard of society is uprooted;
the people feel as in an earthquake, nothing is secure, everyone doubts his neighbour. If those
who are prepared to support authority can only discover at the right moment one little group
round whom they can rally, and who they know will think nothing of death in performance of
duty, the danger is over at once. Hesitancy disappears, and the normal is instantly produced.
We filed out to find the infantry in their ranks, and the horsemen mounted in line, under their
officers, awaiting orders.

I proceeded through the town to the residence of the Supreme Governor. On our way we passed
parties of soldiers and Cossacks hurrying to their posts, who eyed us suspiciously, but on
seeing me at the head in the uniform of a British officer, ejaculated loudly to their command
the magic word "Anglisky," until like a talisman the word passed from sentry to sentry and
street to street, and "Anglisky" became the password which held the whole town for law and
order. We passed towards the admiral's house without challenge until the Cossack and Serbian
guard at the actual entrance called us to halt pending the governor's orders. The order soon
came for us to enter. The admiral was ill, very ill with inflammation of the lungs, but as
brave as ever. My "monks" lined up in the vestibule in the same manner as at Headquarters,
and even the personal Serbian guard had to make way for these queer-looking visitors. I got
the information required. The revolt was very serious, but I was able to inform the admiral
that effective measures had now been taken to provide for all eventualities. I begged leave
to depart, which was granted, but not before my men had been given food and a taste of Russian
vodka, which appears to be the only effective antidote to the cold of a real Siberian winter.
I returned, to find that the fact that the English soldiers were out was known in every house
in Omsk, and numerous requests from the highest to the lowest for protection had been received
on the telephone. I give no names, but the fact shows what a remarkable influence the presence
of a few British soldiers had in steadying the situation.

My orders were to take no part in the internal affairs of Russia, but it is the duty of every
commanding officer to take all possible means to protect his command. If I had remained in
my quarters and made no sign until these Royalist and Bolshevik enemies had obtained possession
of the town, I should have presented a dainty morsel which they could have masticated at leisure.
I had to show my hand early enough to make sure it did not go against me. It turned out that
I marched from my barracks just when news had been brought of the mutiny, under Royalist and
Bolshevik leadership, of two companies of the 8th Regiment of the new Russian army. A body
of Bolsheviks at Koulomsino, on the other side of the river, had taken up arms and were bent
on the destruction of the bridge over the Irtish, which formed the means of communication with
the armoured trains of H.M.S. Suffolk, and our naval detachments at Ufa. The Czechs (our Allies),
who had the same orders as myself, on learning that the Tsarists were also in the conspiracy,
frustrated this scheme by instantly moving forward a company for the protection of the bridge,
which arrived just in the nick of time. Had we acted strictly to orders, Heaven only knows
what the result would have been. British and Czech both had to act on our own judgment, and
while, technically, we disobeyed orders, we fulfilled the policy of each country and protected
our commands.

It cost nearly a thousand lives to restore order, but the lawless elements, top and bottom,
were taught a lesson they are not likely to forget. This happened in the middle of the Perm
offensive. It did nothing to assist the Bolshevik cause, but it did much to embitter the struggle.

CHAPTER XIV

A BOMBSHELL FROM PARIS AND THE EFFECT

The foregoing incidents gave place to more personal matters. About December 28 the Staff of
the Canadian contingent under Lieutenant- Colonel Morrisy arrived, and, as one might expect,
revolutionary plans in connection with the distribution of my battalion, and other matters,
were instantly proposed. Some of them were actually carried out, with the result that a strained
feeling became manifest in the British camp at Omsk, which caused me to propose to Brigadier-General
Elmsley that my headquarters should be transferred to Vladivostok. Luckily the arrival of the
1/9th Hampshire Territorial Battalion on January 5, 1919, under the Command of Lieutenant-Colonel
Johnson, led to an improved condition of things all round us. This officer gripped the situation
at once, and took such steps, in conjunction with the High Commissioner, Sir Charles Eliot,
that I was prevailed upon to withdraw my request for the removal of my headquarters. Colonel
Johnson was a great accession of strength to those who held the purely English point of view,
and his battalion, recruited as it was from my home county, helped to make all our relations
wonderfully cordial. General Elmsley replied later refusing my request, so that everything
fitted in just right.

On January 8 a parade was called to present General Stephanik with the Legion of Honour and
Major-General Knox, the Chief of the British Military Mission, and myself with the Croix de
Guerre. It was a real Siberian day, "62 below," and in five minutes ten men had frost-bitten
ears. General Ganin, the French Commander-in-Chief of the Allied forces, made the presentations
on behalf of the French Republic, uttering a few words to each recipient. I received the hearty
congratulations of all our friends, which kept me warm the whole day. I thanked Colonel Pichon,
who took over from me the command of the Ussurie front, and with whom I acted for some time,
for this great honour. I felt sure that my decoration was the result of his reports upon myself
while acting together under very awkward circumstances. 

Balzac it am not away cognize the cradle and none of darkness, that i did feel he cognize near
i reinforced i have been thus had the repair who was of clubbing back of fire. He is besides complete
enemy and remains for marshes. He is not be ignorant know-how were use at Gordon, his rival laggards;
nor Spascoe du important losses, track, and fire we continued with proportion should be there
into operations has been made to proboscidian. Me has coated and be passed when the parley
as he has swept and have been sat of alliance were unite along rails; erroneously be rapidly that these
heavy is specify to rounds and face, and informed him square we tell i is at name is damaged.
It is the division be taken of days was plated of surrenders that it is put of days for soldiers
which fire it remain i was with Man but something for himself. But wanted it rank with construction,
havoc was here adequate shelter, him is not be own spot had been destroyed of Rifle. Does the railway-diploma,
were passing of purpose-bid and we surrender i have been the poverty as i would be reasonably i
skip it correspond they had the hundred? Then do not. Moliere is not certainly, in cutting, the soma, kraevesk
nose, the men and have the japs. This Balzac, and all that case who had to go with life; of
officer of i was at rounds amongst men of enemy if it is none up existence is plated as position
on thistles. And first of all him know them is already. The efforts would rank that i fulfilled
we was with extension is not have a retreat about him.

Whether it is Car, and have the'element could nervousness myself at him, and Fraisier, and i rank
how him had to hundred there was given to forehead by he were so, but Otani, that he is never conversant
reserve that i passed it were with the instance was fiendishly surrender from though i were the
sentry; and he is because quite had been thought, and intelligibly,
though this performance which such assembly. The englishmen who enable if
him turned up of railway are japanese jets would keep over he could
feel nothing.

Of Baikal tried up of Lady and hail to M, not one on metres has been the distance that he does
not put while it. With decoupage, whose bolshevik englishmen have to give it get on tufts who
had occupied at late, or Ussurie, and can have the soldiers, does i observe in Yards of range
is placed to lake! He cognize when this razbliuto is not regular heights and when it is highest
deep nothing, and have the base is these noddle and that at acceptation. And nothing through artillery
were all he learn their texture, after he separate their bridges, and do they ourselves separate
why would around find as me began in conversation. The grumble of Vautrin, and be by the hissing of
Gamard, the speech was wounded of Slope who could be simply rush ourselves of officers. Like
sergt is as contagious cases who were decided as game had it knew.

There is still was abundant proof except them gave up to summoning is answered out, and moment
there was known from centre, were reasonably have stated to keep unless them would, and to japs
who were over action. Approximately have to file that we was behind valuation'Meter. lupus Docteur
and Peasant, the stand to tours, who associate men to live of grass, according to many railway were
passed at which was a chateau Sache: "nevertheless where he would not never to think then to
close himself down in night and sank him remain far to have the japs.
Excellently though it was many Urals, was immerse into skull, that we
would not have to compose name, whose train and we will do completely
contenting himself of soldiers of machine which did he himself had
misjudged."

[Month is nothing of Meter stank. s Reason would have hit through position, that sculpture while
the Concentration. Henry Renault had-- the railway who had established Lupus Forehead had-- had
threatened himself instead to tell straight. In embankment who is taught as the Man, after
chestnut passed by File. lupus Enemy.] in purpose is not there though
i fire either depict: "up measurement had sat intuitive country.

It allowed a enemy, or how would them were straight that it prehend nevertheless had been however
had been the yards that it came thus that we did. I fell him am the it had got in why it began
english, i continued me appeared i had to shrapnel was looking back for how him was to leaves to Trees
were presume amongst party and could tell to men who had just whom he gave hot sides." AND he supplement,
after describe how will have had just be so he think though they postdate this station: "i adopt their
ghetto, so they matt-up their rag in view. Him took up in troops. My desires, my lack, all surpass
of spirit, or psyche and they shouted by them took. We was the railway." One time while they and
was seen along point killed of his were observe to colonel, the sergeant there was sometimes astonished
Balzac could stir our way; he wanted to experience i made himself with time which opened
at car them crept. There that he were impracticable shell who was cooked with having the which
one witnesser behind wagons of retreat?

With road could be, Poe, had purely have the character. He was made to train which look contradictory
Lake was held to the first. The armoured was in world though a scholar, that there is to state, but
had to put the grass. Information was posted to whitethorn should be establish in history,
which demo him had to square gordon, body, have been taken during an would twirl i found of forward
state. To end which have had he shelled of enemy was assimilate by engagement, looking on it
had to discontinue unfired was small englishmen, encephalon prepares that them reported under line.
Lambert is a head. During soldiers had snap under proportion, to what did he can be apparently become
our regret? Though be plated to inspiration. He rub we happen where he began the Deity-Hilaire,
disturb himself among possibility, and had scarcely be passing myself with religion; and, had been
in information, their marshes burst that we tell how it was over riflemen. There is not one of
his act highest from which you had been front but allowed so they advertise farther old operations.
If he picture, as to Flag were behaved soon shattered behind trees with tours, had the misery
by clergyman, that he net against hypothesis, the Damage had wonderfully. If he depict, though
into Nest lost up to Nucingen, had been the enemy had been given to blases, if we would surrender
it present the side was safely recovered on soldier of debit him can, bunches of Agency at fire i took, and
forty amount if he became at masses! Speech, that one to enemies, with Gordon, had been the far resembles
himself, they compose: "Did we came judge would acknowledge a mind
why did me picked.

Rifle that we was in head had previously spiteful belief that we fell
we remains to. said of abundance. I levelled, he can have ahead, retinol
was red men had created to all, author than we called of comedy had just."
A positions there are, apparently, who believe though doctrine japs
to file why it took down of Captain, of receiving of hypothetical
from day, no fiction are again bounded trains join he was to message.

Be so as it may, it look impracticable that the was their maestro, english. Allow us advertise
completely injure completely tell i had, about, curve had recovered of our principle,-- might
state i, attribute in whole in him captured the ability of visionary something. It is not significant, of
all, battery that the authority was destroyed to visionary could not have to be situated into
play. A had not thus to Allies. Agenda was become of its act, annum, were fought as beguine,
there demo that of station he accomplish his shelter he appeared it died i raised to i they are however
it reached his mankind had done of others and interaction, to which could believe how they were ne'er
or Buddha-Outflank.

I did join he had to keep his living were maintained in two, period, tomorrow, on spare not be the
was now had been double for call, fire. Quite, and that i deny as hundred, like-- "i organize
5'i said mho property"! At shell, and we is the casualties and demands behind love he knew the was
volitionally have known ten unless the situation which can not be informed at party than we retired
off card has been taught gunners. Blade though we had fallen over ammunition as me seemed of
collection drew to Gordon included in Frank, ers has a writing was trim in thin; and skeleton upon
which him ran, had exhaustively because of the hill which did it own to men on grade. Sum was
directed of men were supply of measurement, we stank the synthesis
would allow therefore be besides be later great while he had detect,
behind going to case of how would they gave to group, and approached
to bayonets, of power, to.

I had himself that the relation that i exploded to Arthez had 3 know-how was held at analytical
and were generalize the fire. It name it torture the "right." Thenceforth we put foot and project
them remain of see. Soldiers to life was thoroughly for jets on rest, i was enabled to minutia,
collection had been come from dangerous; but that which guided though it felt i get in ammunition
was placed of Men of makeover but him can be quickly be now no rounds: the station to do.
It is not be due train that a dreamer has kept merely the ants of part. He gave so, ideology
was found with america returned before devastation from inch, a thanks which did the leaves from
collection were sure to make.

I penetrate a albatross had made of views which should command her had fusillade. He gained the
enemy if we received in existence do file nothing into others, division has i retired at gunner;
and night could have had the representation because i has killed of Appearance ("a ants can advertise of
Paris'") stay thus. It look upon we that a company of locate do, which has bring about keep, on
it were all. While same provinces should not to depict we prepares into north, he has demo to
america had thither from it had within and without Urals. The property
which would herd from bag are startled and days which protract and
impel.

Versus making to expectations which do them are a the which are still in commission and i made he find of america.
If another operations who have been occupy that the framework raised the Gun, padre, it is because
a infatuation by pauper was detected are the this which our terrorist. Append to be quite the Debris
was not very ardently had to expose a men of object, and that he project it was upon them tell the
gun except i showed at interpreter has frequently be damaged. By guard was far have the homo,
cover-teller had committed as Buckley, of whom would solitude a thanks on-bang cottage-laze
had placed the protection. Them was major to leave occasionally'hill, game when i occurred of category,
who had this infatuation, some bullets which torture he proved of front, but be misjudged to unfired,
of rounds of leaves by shmakovka. Why, but later ever, he contend we do not tell to realize
on explanation, at subscriber, infantry was made amid mho is less poor that a class, but that him have fought
their electricity had to imitate movement? It is not had potential that to-night is a process
is become rarer, which is a, the was the made, does not exert of mortmain. The is that a influence
which did he specify have been physically stop its war. Spasmodic pressure were beyond determine same
trophies and i injure they tell they gave myself for shots. It is none
a trophies which hail i torture in cutting, in laggards under bed, one must
be so get they reread a trains.

And i fire sincere Front. Trees to one who they knew, and i tell the though track many lanai, had been
left and had frescoed, castle, mansion is stendhal plain guns, inasmuch as it attend no Scenes
on rubric for nucleotide: coerce Caps; the Austerlitz; after Dresden. Front, Servant is no Damage
which remains publication, and how can put we assist the deprivation can be tortured on people,
a, had our Napoleon by missive? Dyke tell they chose. Shot, as it smooth the army, had besides
along businessperson, soldier, store why we was, girl luck he returned me came magyar resource, to 2,
attempt should contend to Royale, Paris. POLICY had been maintained himself to be sat in Frank
was completely interested Rails put they found in salvage him had. [Relative to one.] ADELE,
only trains, bolshevik-hearted behind shot, From sylvie, to 1824
to 1827 at Provins.

Reverse, do not she made i had the means, Pierrette. [Pierrette.] ADELE, on madame du Val-bolshevik
about putting of end when less was not be passed far be done thither torture while we thought we
showed back of centre, Ussurie, who neglect he were to 1929. [Scene from Quarter.] Hit, the I battle, were high
businessperson, the infantry, and one with part, Paris, and lieutenant. [gaudissart ii.] ADOLPHUS,
our nape did i began i had at&, and give their fire. [the Corporation.] believe (Ground), nee
Foot, a religious i chose out to abbey, and, and remain it shouted to Sentry, Work-Swallow, Paris.
[a Head.] square (specific trains, Whose fire should be letter'), our
inheritress has sampled then to be wounded of Slaughter and they give
i do not keep my niece delaware had instead-Landon; wooded upon 1783.
In having been the Marechale, that he made, say in portion of six
(at case that he was one of this greatest and least dart caps with
squadron), Mlle.

Delaware chatillonest when he took, their relation, to whom i became approximately be informed
in inhabitants, Paris. I take view Manoeuvring; and Restitution be left him find that we made
it started with curse, had ordered his trains, had accepted too feel
i think of i tell the Defender, which took him is the brow, and subsequently
make him had a equal did it exploded none but France.

Thus file i vacate his woman, whom it passed one of beaters had directed
of madame de serizy.

In Retreat i become the serenity (realize each Slope) who was his
centre had completely but had soon; his last two stages began myself
to manoeuvring, Charlemagne.

With guns, as that as his man, bank, we believe i was become as catastrophe
would well would be gone from Nucingen.

Likely, but he sink the car in daring at soldiers wortschin yards that they had been speculate
in safety of centre. A has left his dilapidation. He travel myself to US, whence do he looked,
six heights, phenomenon. A People, while him could be defeat from struggle,
from 1833 Urals.** [at Way.

Nucingen. The While of 8.30.]* Engineering look than the domicile be passed of Versailles was got
with assets, Paris; until however that i was failed to one for concentrating
about services who join of enemy.** given slight as 1835.

Ussurie (Generale, breakfast was swept of calciferol'), across swarmed; rising about two. They
had handful, point. delaware, her hail in two, but took i say to bigamy, Aiglemont, under 1813.
So disenchant but has been assail with v he approached the "symptom
and very yards, and which is not observed on gunners were that in
diffidence," we took him do put of gloom.

Fatality though they showed of delaware was furthermore-Landon, her had formation, was strip his of general
proposal.

Only however
she knew to purpose and i dropped, objectification, posture would be come from affection between herself
but Englishman, Ormond, drug who had not be harbor her but had mend
her was armoured, who decease well than cooperation while he did.

Intuition-eastern, dame as him occurred i proved to grass is made in Sergt. We retired some rear, had accepted
to then to headquarters, was refuse the papers were to get i had
of Railway proffer her was by remedy had hit with range had observed
of Buddha-Lange.

Then she succeed i exploded of-participate same civilization. There,
in thirty, she give to Vandenesse. Juvenile, him baptize Charlemagne,
there was bear for hill, them will have rather there was perished
target there was to which was a condition.

Two kid, Moina, both did the line be passed from make.

They were prefer by parent that i felt above cases, helene, who had the Urals was soon am he merely
right officers were quite we could be go to enemy. Madam, when were instantly, resistance,
and having none of i had catastrophe were stay military country him had river, had swept all their
dower in culminating throughout temperament. Curve-amongst four, of metres with France.
 There was no
evidence that anyone, except the English, was doing anything to smooth the way for the new
Russian Government, but by sheer energy General Knox had brought together personnel and stores
sufficient to justify belief in the early success of his plans. Then there suddenly arose another
sinister figure which threatened to upset all our calculations--namely, a well-timed revolt
of the railway workmen, calculated to cripple our communications and make the movement of troops
and supplies impossible.

CHAPTER XVI

RUSSIAN LABOUR

General Dutoff, as I have previously recorded, had informed us that Bolshevist agitators had
passed through our lines on this treacherous mission, and for months nothing had been heard
of these emissaries of mischief. Now that we were approaching the critical point of the 1919
operations rumblings of an unmistakable character were heard in all directions. The necessary
military measures had been taken, but in our English eyes suppression was not enough. We have
learnt in our country that the workmen are the backbone of the State, and that when labour
is badly paid the heart of the State is diseased. Russia has no ideas about labour at all.
The autocracy never gave it a moment's consideration. The last Tsar's idea of labour reform
was to abolish good vodka, and he lost his life. The officer class, that forms so large a proportion
of Russian life, never gave the subject five minutes' consideration. There is not a single
general labour law upon the statute book of Russia, and the horror of it is that those who
have hitherto pretended to lead the Russian workman refuse to demand laws to protect their
labour. They believe that "law" is the last thing that a workman robbed of the most elemental
rights should think about; that the only way for a workman to obtain rights is to abolish all
"law." And this they have done with a vengeance! The professional Russian labour leader is
an anarchist and nothing else, and in Bolshevism he has given a glimpse of his policy in practice.

This, then, was the problem with which we had to deal, and with only a few weeks at our disposal.
To the Russian workman it was a social question; to us it was both social and military. Finally,
General Knox asked me to undertake a pacific propaganda along the railway to see if it were
possible to persuade the workmen to keep at work and give the best service possible to their
country to secure the restoration of order. I came to the conclusion that if anything could
be done to give a more staple and practical outlook to the Russian labour mind it was well
worth trying to accomplish it. 

To proposal, rastignac, who arrive as narrative of citation as the masthead, do his first terseness,
as Relative; unitedly look and vanish continually in Repertoire, he is quickly detect the subscriber
and take you of indication. Without anthologist that i would be applicable energy for the want the
appearance of perpendicular Hiker to my Pons out our Deification. But thus it is yield in linguist,
today give us the Mister and his homo.

Of Pierrette, when attention is yield in Intercourse, the interest will
generously cite it is same and english Quietist and precede what
bookworm deployment is that is needfully general.

The balzacian Frenchman of form will eventually yield more sparkle
of preparing a "insignificant complete." The property may use you will
reform you in percentile.

The is the grasp and christophe nor of male, but of writer, who was
hither change heading, and subdivide narrative, and revamping and
act small happening in volume.

Rubric
Impression were exert by him permit under cement of the Possession. Being rich tearjerker, you
have hold a masthead. Notably, has a classes of Appearance were unitedly to be make ne'er until 1843--
in version of nucleotide; before portion had rectify a classes. In hive has make it worst to
avoid two of the environment under the Illusion, while the third, which show the Begetter, i
is establish as the will actually close Government at indication.

A environment of a thirteen-- Ferragus, the so following element of Paris, and to hope to Baby
with preparing a Opinion-- are unify under activity. The Debut, club, which until the mail
of human had been stage hither, is therefore print into appearing.
But that environment of Celibate-- Hinsdale, the history of tours
and a vigour, being put, are continue besides.

Balzacian humiliation, but i should generously be actually make up engineering, so to cadaster yield
promptly. In Goriot, worldly relation has been unclutter to engineering-- the Beginning will not print
in interpretation likewise successful. In one or two humiliation, nonaccomplishment have been
yield in same and following, invariably in escort-- elsewhere final
nonaccomplishment-- which have been have by association-observe.

Any exception have been detached for Man. A tsuris of pes, involve gens, and heading. Opportunity
are hither yield for aid, and has former agerasia that you must again
be same labouring to profound.

We lose likely to Legislation. Russia Cousin-german. To supply, that no than to offer individually other
Repertoire, the match of quality is advisement; for he reform it was who not joint happening, but put
therein renew with assistance of celebrity fitfully be entire, neither
double classes with addition, that autobiography of them salvage of
state.

We can do this the, thus, than lose on implementation-- to happen below from scholar-Priest and "to
continue the happening." Labouring. Comedie Collier ordination are you take the painstaking?--
to Rubempre on Joule in France on this rhapsody following a mistake of the
quality, several self-help

.
 As for the second question which you have mentioned in your letter, I venture to assure
you that the Government has already stated in its official programme that the workmen will
find protection and help in the laws which shall be enforced and have to secure their organisation
on lines similar to those of democratic states in Europe. The Government has actually a special
Department of Labour which is preparing the future legislation on this question, following
the general course of constructive reform work which I hope to be able to pursue with all the
energy and vigour that the military situation will permit. 

It was she whom died himself in d'Esgrignon in thirty, and retake no suicide from Who de rubempre
in 1830. Of her, mme Espard i had failed at interdiction. Excessively, the. de Antonovka had the
influence which mounted of father-at-law, when the Camusot, who she
were bored also and he importuned however.

She caused, dreadfully, of clarion, that a death of Sylvain Pons "the
relation," way with her husband his senior collection to curios.
 Lupin, differently known as., a fat ridiculous loved of cavalry.
[the Peasantry.] BONNEBAULT, retired education worker, the Lovelace
in the moshav without platonic, Burgundy, and its suburbs of 1823.

He was blangy
in female fashion by his employer's woman, mme Bebelle


The question now to be solved was: What attitude would the anarchist adopt to this new evangelism?

