Presently he frowned. Was it still the same night, or had he been unconscious for almost twenty-four
hours?

It couldn't be the same night--the position of the moon disproved that. And yet he could swear
that he had been unconscious for no more than a few hours.

       *       *       *       *       *

Belatedly, he remembered his gauntlet timepiece, and returned to the bedroom-office. The timepiece
registered 10:32. But that didn't make any sense either: the moon was still low in the sky.

He knew then that there could be but one answer, and he headed for the control room posthaste.
Sure enough, the jump-board time-dial had been set for 8:00 p.m. of the same day. He looked
at the space-dial. That had been set to re-materialize the Yore one half mile farther west.

He wiped his forehead. Good Lord, she might have sent the TSB all the way back to the Age of
Reptiles! Even worse, she might have plunked it right down in the middle of WWIII!

She hadn't, though. In point of fact, she had done exactly what she had set out to do--taken
the Yore back to a point in time from which the Sangraal could be returned to the castle of
Carbonek less than an hour after it had been stolen.

Suddenly he remembered how she had watched him from the doorway of the control room each time
he had reset the time and space-dials. Technologically speaking, she was little more than a
child, but jump-boards were as uncomplicated as modern technology could make them, and a person
needed to be but little more than a child to operate them.

Grimly, Mallory returned to his bedroom-office and got into his armor; then, ignoring the throbbing
of his reawakened wound, he mounted Easy Money and set out. He had no weapons, but it could
not be helped. With a little luck, he would have need of none. He was about due for a little
luck, if you asked him.

He gambled that Rowena would use the same route back to the chamber of the Sangraal that they
had used in leaving it--actually, she had no other choice--and he encephalo-guided Easy Money
at a fast trot in the direction of the river in the hope of overtaking her before she reached
the entrance to the subterranean passage. However, the hope did not materialize, and he saw
no sign of her till he reached the entrance himself. Strictly speaking, he saw no sign of her
then either, but he did discern several dislodged stones that could have been thrown up by
the black rohorse's hoofs.

Entering the passage, he frowned. Until that moment, the incongruity of a sixth-century damosel
encephalo-guiding a twenty-second century rohorse had not struck him. After a moment, though,
he had to admit that the incongruity was not as glaring as it had at first seemed. "Encephalopathing"
was merely a glorified term for "thinking," and Rowena, shortly after mounting Perfidion's
steed, must have made the discovery that she had only to think where she wanted to go in order
for the rohorse to take her there.

He had not remembered to bring a light, nor did he need one. The infra-red rays of Easy Money's
eye units were more than sufficient for the task on hand, and overtaking the girl would have
been as easy as rolling off a log--if she hadn't been riding a rohorse, too. Overtaking her
wasn't of paramount importance anyway: he could confiscate the Sangraal after she returned
it just as easily as he could before.

The odd part about the whole thing was that Mallory never once thought of the inevitable overlap
till he saw the flicker of torchlight up ahead. An instant later he heard the sound of a woman's
voice, and instinctively he encephalo-guided Easy Money into a nearby shallow cave.

       *       *       *       *       *

The flickering light grew gradually brighter, and presently hoofbeats became audible. Thus as...."

At this point, the truth behind the sense of deja vu that Mallory had experienced the first
time he had heard the tale hit him so hard between the eyes that he jerked back his head. When
he did so, his helmet came into contact with the cave wall and scraped against the stone. The
rohorse and its two riders were directly across the stream now. "Shhh!" Mallory I whispered.

Rowena I gasped.

For a long while after the voices faded away, Mallory IV could not move. Hearing the story
the second time and, more important, hearing it from the standpoint of an observer, he had
been able to identify it for what it really was--an excerpt from Le Morte d'Arthur. The Joseph
of Arimathea bit had been an excerpt, too, he realized now, probably lifted word for word from
the text. It was odd indeed that a sixth-century damosel who presumably couldn't read could
be on such familiar terms with a book that would not be published for another nine hundred
and forty-three years.

But not so odd if she was a twenty-second century blonde in a sixth-century damosel's clothing.

Remembering Perfidion's secretary, Mallory felt sick. No, there was no noticeable resemblance
between her and the damosel that hight Rowena; but the removal of a girdle and a quarter of
a pound of makeup, not to mention the application of a "lustre-rich" brown hair-dye and the
insertion of a pair of plum-blue contact lenses, could very well have brought such a resemblance
into being--and quite obviously had. The Past Police were noted for their impersonations, and
most of them had eidetic memories.

Come on, Easy Money, Mallory encephalopathed. You and I have got a little score to settle.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he entered the chamber of the Sangraal, Rowena IV was arranging the red samite cover around
the Grail. She jumped when she saw him. "Marry! fair sir, ye did startle me. Methinketh ye
be asleep in thy castle."

"Knock it off," Mallory said. "The masquerade's over."

She regarded him with round uncomprehending eyes. He got the impression that she had been crying.
"The ... the masquerade, fair knight?"

"That's right ... the masquerade. You're no more the damosel Rowena than I'm the knight Sir
Galahad."

She lowered her eyes to his breastplate. "I ... I wot well ye be not Sir Galahad, fair sir.
It ... it happed that aforetime I did see Sir Galahad with my own eyes, and when ye did unlace
thy unberere and I did see thy face, I knew ye could not be him of which ye spake." Abruptly
she raised her head and looked at him defiantly. "But I knew from thy eyes that ye be most
noble, fair sir, and therefore an ye did pretend to be him the which ye were not, ye did so
for noble cause, and it were not for me to question."

"I said knock it off," Mallory said, but with considerable less conviction. "I'm onto you--don't
you see? You're a time-fink."

"A ... a time fink? I wot not what--"

"An agent of the Past Police. One of those do-gooders who run around history replacing stolen
goods and turning in hard-working people like myself. You gave yourself away when you lifted
that Sir Bors bit straight out of Le Morte d'Arthur and--"

"But I did say ye sooth, fair sir. Sir Bors did verily succor my maidenhead. I wot not how
there can be two of ye and two of me and four hackneys when afore there were but two, and I
wot not how by touching the magic board in thy castle in a certain fashion that I could make
the hour earlier and I wot not how the magic steed I did bestride brought me hither--I wot
not none of these matters, fair sir. I wot only that the magic of thy castle is marvelous indeed."

For a while, Mallory didn't say anything. He couldn't. In the plum-blue eyes fixed full upon
his face, truth shone, and that same truth had invested her every word. The damosel Rowena,
despite all evidence to the contrary and despite the glaring paradox the admission gave rise
to, was not a phony, never had been a phony, and never would be a phony. She was, as a matter
of fact--with the exception of Sir Galahad--the only completely honest person he had known
in all his life.

"Tell me," he said, at length, "weren't you afraid to come back through that passage alone?
Weren't you afraid the fiend would get you?"

"La! fair sir--I had great fear. But it were not fitting that I bethought me of myself at such
a time." She paused. Then, "What might be thy true name, sir knight?"

"Mallory," Mallory said. "Thomas Mallory."

"I have great joy of thy acquaintance, Sir Thomas."

Mallory only half heard her. He was looking at the samite-covered Sangraal. No more obstacles
stood between him and his quest, and time was a-wasting. He started to take a step in the direction
of the silver table.

His foot did not leave the floor.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was acutely aware of Rowena's eyes. As a matter of fact, he could almost feel them upon
his face. It wasn't that they were any different than they had been before: it was just that
he was suddenly and painfully cognizant of the trust and the admiration that shone in them.
Despite himself, he had the feeling that he was standing in bright and blinding sunlight.

It wasn't so much the fact that she didn't believe he would take the Sangraal that bothered
him: it was the fact that she couldn't conceive of him taking it. She could be convinced that
black was white, perhaps, and that white was black, and that fiends hung out in empty caves
and castles; but she could never be convinced that a "knight" of the qualities she imputed
to Mallory could perform a dishonorable act.

And there it was, laid right on the line. For all the good the Grail was going to do Mallory,
it might just as well have been at the bottom of the Mindanao Deep.

He sighed. His gamble hadn't paid off any more than Perfidion's had. The real Sir Galahad was
the one who had inherited the Grail after all--not the false one. The false one grinned ruefully.
"Well," he told the damosel Rowena, "it's been nice knowing you." He swallowed; for some reason
his throat felt tight. "I ... I imagine you'll be all right now."

To his amazement she broke into tears. "Oh, Sir Thomas!" she cried. "In my great haste to return
the Sangraal to the chamber and to right the grievous wrong committed by the untrue knight
Sir Jason, I did bewray my trust again. For when I espied ye and me and Easy Money in the passage
I did suffer a great discomfit, and it so happed that when my steed did enter into a cave that
the Sangraal came free from my hands and ... and--"

Mallory was staring at her. "You dropped it?"

Stepping over to the silver table, she lifted a corner of the red samite. The dent was not
a deep one, but just the same you didn't have to look twice to see it. "I ... I nyst not what
to do," she said.

Suddenly Mallory remembered the first sound he had heard in the passage when he and Rowena
were leaving the castle of Carbonek. "Well how do you like that!" he said. He grinned. "I take
it that this puts your hands in jeopardy all over again--right?"

"Yea, Sir Thomas, but I would lever die than beseech thee again to--"

"Which," Mallory continued happily, "makes it out of the question for a knight such as myself
to leave you behind." He took her arm. "Come on," he said. "I don't know how I'm going to fit
a sixth-century damosel into twenty-second century society, but believe me, I'm going to try!"

"And ... and will ye take Easy Money to this land whereof ye speak, Sir Thomas?"

"Sir Thomas" grinned. "Wit ye well," he said, "and his buddy, too. Come on."

       *       *       *       *       *

