"Launching one's boat over a human body--or several, as the case may be!"

"But don't you see that, as an expedient to bring this madman to reason----"

"I've told you that you don't understand him!"

Mr. Langhope turned on her with what would have been a show of temper in any one less provided
with shades of manner. "Well, then, explain him, for God's sake!"

"I might explain him by saying that she's still in love with him."

"Ah, if you're still imprisoned in the old formulas!"

Mrs. Ansell confronted him with a grave face. "Isn't that precisely what Bessy is? Isn't she
one of the most harrowing victims of the plan of bringing up our girls in the double bondage
of expediency and unreality, corrupting their bodies with luxury and their brains with sentiment,
and leaving them to reconcile the two as best they can, or lose their souls in the attempt?"

Mr. Langhope smiled. "I may observe that, with my poor child so early left alone to me, I supposed
I was doing my best in committing her guidance to some of the most admirable women I know."

"Of whom I was one--and not the least lamentable example of the system! Of course the only
thing that saves us from their vengeance," Mrs. Ansell added, "is that so few of them ever
stop to think...."

"And yet, as I make out, it's precisely what you would have Bessy do!"

"It's what neither you nor I can help her doing. You've given her just acuteness enough to
question, without consecutiveness enough to explain. But if she must perish in the struggle--and
I see no hope for her--" cried Mrs. Ansell, starting suddenly and dramatically to her feet,
"at least let her perish defending her ideals and not denying them--even if she has to sell
the New York house and all your china pots into the bargain!"

Mr. Langhope, rising also, deprecatingly lifted his hands, "If that's what you call saving
me from her vengeance--sending the crockery crashing round my ears!" And, as she turned away
without any pretense of capping his pleasantry, he added, with a gleam of friendly malice:
"I suppose you're going to the Hunt ball as Cassandra?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Amherst, that morning, had sought out his wife with the definite resolve to efface the unhappy
impression of their previous talk. He blamed himself for having been too easily repelled by
her impatience. As the stronger of the two, with the power of a fixed purpose to sustain him,
he should have allowed for the instability of her impulses, and above all for the automatic
influences of habit.

Knowing that she did not keep early hours he delayed till ten o'clock to present himself at
her sitting-room door, but the maid who answered his knock informed him that Mrs. Amherst was
not yet up.

His reply that he would wait did not appear to hasten the leisurely process of her toilet,
and he had the room to himself for a full half-hour. Many months had passed since he had spent
so long a time in it, and though habitually unobservant of external details, he now found an
outlet for his restlessness in mechanically noting the intimate appurtenances of Bessy's life.
He was at first merely conscious of a soothing harmony of line and colour, extending from the
blurred tints of the rug to the subdued gleam of light on old picture-frames and on the slender
flanks of porcelain vases; but gradually he began to notice how every chair and screen and
cushion, and even every trifling utensil on the inlaid writing-desk, had been chosen with reference
to the whole composition, and to the minutest requirements of a fastidious leisure. A few months
ago this studied setting, if he had thought of it at all, would have justified itself as expressing
the pretty woman's natural affinity with pretty toys; but now it was the cost of it that struck
him. He was beginning to learn from Bessy's bills that no commodity is taxed as high as beauty,
and the beauty about him filled him with sudden repugnance, as the disguise of the evil influences
that were separating his wife's life from his.

But with her entrance he dismissed the thought, and tried to meet her as if nothing stood in
the way of their full communion. Her hair, still wet from the bath, broke from its dryad-like
knot in dusky rings and spirals threaded with gold, and from her loose flexible draperies,
and her whole person as she moved, there came a scent of youth and morning freshness. Her beauty
touched him, and made it easier for him to humble himself.

"I was stupid and disagreeable last night. I can never say what I want when I have to count
the minutes, and I've come back now for a quiet talk," he began.

A shade of distrust passed over Bessy's face. "About business?" she asked, pausing a few feet
away from him.

"Don't let us give it that name!" He went up to her and drew her two hands into his. "You used
to call it our work--won't you go back to that way of looking at it?"

Her hands resisted his pressure. "I didn't know, then, that it was going to be the only thing
you cared for----"

But for her own sake he would not let her go on. "Some day I shall make you see how much my
caring for it means my caring for you. But meanwhile," he urged, "won't you overcome your aversion
to the subject, and bear with it as my work, if you no longer care to think of it as yours?"

Bessy, freeing herself, sat down on the edge of the straight-backed chair near the desk, as
though to mark the parenthetical nature of the interview.

"I know you think me stupid--but wives are not usually expected to go into all the details
of their husband's business. I have told you to do whatever you wish at Westmore, and I can't
see why that is not enough."

Amherst looked at her in surprise. Something in her quick mechanical utterance suggested that
not only the thought but the actual words she spoke had been inspired, and he fancied he heard
in them an echo of Blanche Carbury's tones. Though Bessy's intimacy with Mrs. Carbury was of
such recent date, fragments of unheeded smoking-room gossip now recurred to confirm the vague
antipathy which Amherst had felt for her the previous evening.

"I know that, among your friends, wives are not expected to interest themselves in their husbands'
work, and if the mills were mine I should try to conform to the custom, though I should always
think it a pity that the questions that fill a man's thoughts should be ruled out of his talk
with his wife; but as it is, I am only your representative at Westmore, and I don't see how
we can help having the subject come up between us."

Bessy remained silent, not as if acquiescing in his plea, but as though her own small stock
of arguments had temporarily failed her; and he went on, enlarging on his theme with a careful
avoidance of technical terms, and with the constant effort to keep the human and personal side
of the question before her.

She listened without comment, her eyes fixed on a little jewelled letter-opener which she had
picked up from the writing-table, and which she continued to turn in her fingers while he spoke.

The full development of Amherst's plans at Westmore, besides resulting, as he had foreseen,
in Truscomb's resignation, and in Halford Gaines's outspoken resistance to the new policy,
had necessitated a larger immediate outlay of capital than the first estimates demanded, and
Amherst, in putting his case to Bessy, was prepared to have her meet it on the old ground of
the disapproval of all her advisers. But when he had ended she merely said, without looking
up from the toy in her hand: "I always expected that you would need a great deal more money
than you thought."

The comment touched him at his most vulnerable point. "But you see why? You understand how
the work has gone on growing--?"

His wife lifted her head to glance at him for a moment. "I am not sure that I understand,"
she said indifferently; "but if another loan is necessary, of course I will sign the note for it."

The words checked his reply by bringing up, before he was prepared to deal with it, the other
and more embarrassing aspect of the question. He had hoped to reawaken in Bessy some feeling
for the urgency of his task before having to take up the subject of its cost; but her cold
anticipation of his demands as part of a disagreeable business to be despatched and put out
of mind, doubled the difficulty of what he had left to say; and it occurred to him that she
had perhaps foreseen and reckoned on this result.

He met her eyes gravely. "Another loan is necessary; but if any proper provision is to be made
for paying it back, your expenses will have to be cut down a good deal for the next few months."

The blood leapt to Bessy's face. "My expenses? You seem to forget how much I've had to cut
them down already."

"The household bills certainly don't show it. They are increasing steadily, and there have
been some very heavy incidental payments lately."

"What do you mean by incidental payments?"

"Well, there was the pair of cobs you bought last month----"

She returned to a resigned contemplation of the letter-opener. "With only one motor, one must
have more horses, of course."

"The stables seemed to me fairly full before. But if you required more horses, I don't see
why, at this particular moment, it was also necessary to buy a set of Chinese vases for twenty-five
hundred dollars."

Bessy, at this, lifted her head with an air of decision that surprised him. Her blush had faded
as quickly as it came, and he noticed that she was pale to the lips.

"I know you don't care about such things; but I had an exceptional chance of securing the vases
at a low price--they are really worth twice as much--and Dick always wanted a set of Ming for
the drawing-room mantelpiece."

Richard Westmore's name was always tacitly avoided between them, for in Amherst's case the
disagreeable sense of dependence on a dead man's bounty increased that feeling of obscure constraint
and repugnance which any reminder of the first husband's existence is wont to produce in his
successor.

He reddened at the reply, and Bessy, profiting by an embarrassment which she had perhaps consciously
provoked, went on hastily, and as if by rote: "I have left you perfectly free to do as you
think best at the mills, but this perpetual discussion of my personal expenses is very unpleasant
to me, as I am sure it must be to you, and in future I think it would be much better for us
to have separate accounts."

"Separate accounts?" Amherst echoed in genuine astonishment.

"I should like my personal expenses to be under my own control again--I have never been used
to accounting for every penny I spend."

The vertical lines deepened between Amherst's brows. "You are of course free to spend your
money as you like--and I thought you were doing so when you authorized me, last spring, to
begin the changes at Westmore."

Her lip trembled. "Do you reproach me for that? I didn't understand...you took advantage...."

"Oh!" he exclaimed.

At his tone the blood rushed back to her face. "It was my fault, of course--I only wanted to
please you----"

Amherst was silent, confronted by the sudden sense of his own responsibility. What she said
was true--he had known, when he exacted the sacrifice, that she made it only to please him,
on an impulse of reawakened feeling, and not from any real recognition of a larger duty. The
perception of this made him answer gently: "I am willing to take any blame you think I deserve;
but it won't help us now to go back to the past. It is more important that we should come to
an understanding about the future. If by keeping your personal account separate, you mean that
you wish to resume control of your whole income, then you ought to understand that the improvements
at the mills will have to be dropped at once, and things there go back to their old state."

She started up with an impatient gesture. "Oh, I should like never to hear of the mills again!"

He looked at her a moment in silence. "Am I to take that as your answer?"

She walked toward her door without returning his look. "Of course," she murmured, "you will
end by doing as you please."

The retort moved him, for he heard in it the cry of her wounded pride. He longed to be able
to cry out in return that Westmore was nothing to him, that all he asked was to see her happy....
But it was not true, and his manhood revolted from the deception. Besides, its effect would
be only temporary--would wear no better than her vain efforts to simulate an interest in his
work. Between them, forever, were the insurmountable barriers of character, of education, of
habit--and yet it was not in him to believe that any barrier was insurmountable.

"Bessy," he exclaimed, following her, "don't let us part in this way----"

She paused with her hand on her dressing-room door. "It is time to dress for church," she objected,
turning to glance at the little gilt clock on the chimney-piece.

"For church?" Amherst stared, wondering that at such a crisis she should have remained detached
enough to take note of the hour.

"You forget," she replied, with an air of gentle reproof, "that before we married I was in
the habit of going to church every Sunday."

"Yes--to be sure. Would you not like me to go with you?" he rejoined gently, as if roused to
the consciousness of another omission in the long list of his social shortcomings; for church-going,
at Lynbrook, had always struck him as a purely social observance.

But Bessy had opened the door of her dressing-room. "I much prefer that you should do what
you like," she said as she passed from the room.

Amherst made no farther attempt to detain her, and the door closed on her as though it were
closing on a chapter in their lives.

"That's the end of it!" he murmured, picking up the letter-opener she had been playing with,
and twirling it absently in his fingers. But nothing in life ever ends, and the next moment
a new question confronted him--how was the next chapter to open?

BOOK III

XIX

IT was late in October when Amherst returned to Lynbrook.

He had begun to learn, in the interval, the lesson most difficult to his direct and trenchant
nature: that compromise is the law of married life. On the afternoon of his talk with his wife
he had sought her out, determined to make a final effort to clear up the situation between
them; but he learned that, immediately after luncheon, she had gone off in the motor with Mrs.
Carbury and two men of the party, leaving word that they would probably not be back till evening.
It cost Amherst a struggle, when he had humbled himself to receive this information from the
butler, not to pack his portmanteau and take the first train for Hanaford; but he was still
under the influence of Justine Brent's words, and also of his own feeling that, at this juncture,
a break between himself and Bessy would be final.

He stayed on accordingly, enduring as best he might the mute observation of the household,
and the gentle irony of Mr. Langhope's attentions; and before he left Lynbrook, two days later,
a provisional understanding had been reached.

His wife proved more firm than he had foreseen in her resolve to regain control of her income,
and the talk between them ended in reciprocal concessions, Bessy consenting to let the town
house for the winter and remain at Lynbrook, while Amherst agreed to restrict his improvements
at Westmore to such alterations as had already been begun, and to reduce the expenditure on
these as much as possible. It was virtually the defeat of his policy, and he had to suffer
the decent triumph of the Gaineses, as well as the bitterer pang of his foiled aspirations.
In spite of the opposition of the directors, he had taken advantage of Truscomb's resignation
to put Duplain at the head of the mills; but the new manager's outspoken disgust at the company's
change of plan made it clear that he would not remain long at Westmore, and it was one of the
miseries of Amherst's situation that he could not give the reasons for his defection, but must
bear to figure in Duplain's terse vocabulary as a "quitter." The difficulty of finding a new
manager expert enough to satisfy the directors, yet in sympathy with his own social theories,
made Amherst fear that Duplain's withdrawal would open the way for Truscomb's reinstatement,
an outcome on which he suspected Halford Gaines had always counted; and this possibility loomed
before him as the final defeat of his hopes.

Meanwhile the issues ahead had at least the merit of keeping him busy. The task of modifying
and retrenching his plans contrasted drearily with the hopeful activity of the past months,
but he had an iron capacity for hard work under adverse conditions, and the fact of being too
busy for thought helped him to wear through the days. This pressure of work relieved him, at
first, from too close consideration of his relation to Bessy. He had yielded up his dearest
hopes at her wish, and for the moment his renunciation had set a chasm between them; but gradually
he saw that, as he was patching together the ruins of his Westmore plans, so he must presently
apply himself to the reconstruction of his married life.

Before leaving Lynbrook he had had a last word with Miss Brent; not a word of confidence--for
the same sense of reserve kept both from any explicit renewal of their moment's intimacy--but
one of those exchanges of commonplace phrase that circumstances may be left to charge with
special meaning. Justine had merely asked if he were really leaving and, on his assenting,
had exclaimed quickly: "But you will come back soon?"

"I shall certainly come back," he answered; and after a pause he added: "I shall find you here?
You will remain at Lynbrook?"

On her part also there was a shade of hesitation; then she said with a smile: "Yes, I shall stay."

His look brightened. "And you'll write me if anything--if Bessy should not be well?"

"I will write you," she promised; and a few weeks after his return to Hanaford he had, in fact,
received a short note from her. Its ostensible purpose was to reassure him as to Bessy's health,
which had certainly grown stronger since Dr. Wyant had persuaded her, at the close of the last
house-party, to accord herself a period of quiet; but (the writer added) now that Mr. Langhope
and Mrs. Ansell had also left, the quiet was perhaps too complete, and Bessy's nerves were
beginning to suffer from the reaction.

Amherst had no difficulty in interpreting this brief communication. "I have succeeded in dispersing
the people who are always keeping you and your wife apart; now is your chance: come and take
it." That was what Miss Brent's letter meant; and his answer was a telegram to Bessy, announcing
his return to Long Island.

The step was not an easy one; but decisive action, however hard, was always easier to Amherst
than the ensuing interval of readjustment. To come to Lynbrook had required a strong effort
of will; but the effort of remaining there called into play less disciplined faculties.

Amherst had always been used to doing things; now he had to resign himself to enduring a state
of things. The material facilities of the life about him, the way in which the machinery of
the great empty house ran on like some complex apparatus working in the void, increased the
exasperation of his nerves. Dr. Wyant's suggestion--which Amherst suspected Justine of having
prompted--that Mrs. Amherst should cancel her autumn engagements, and give herself up to a
quiet outdoor life with her husband, seemed to present the very opportunity these two distracted
spirits needed to find and repossess each other. But, though Amherst was grateful to Bessy
for having dismissed her visitors--partly to please him, as he guessed--yet he found the routine
of the establishment more oppressive than when the house was full. If he could have been alone
with her in a quiet corner--the despised cottage at Westmore, even!--he fancied they might
still have been brought together by restricted space and the familiar exigencies of life. All
the primitive necessities which bind together, through their recurring daily wants, natures
fated to find no higher point of union, had been carefully eliminated from the life at Lynbrook,
where material needs were not only provided for but anticipated by a hidden mechanism that
filled the house with the perpetual sense of invisible attendance. Though Amherst knew that
he and Bessy could never meet in the region of great issues, he thought he might have regained
the way to her heart, and found relief from his own inaction, in the small ministrations of
daily life; but the next moment he smiled to picture Bessy in surroundings where the clocks
were not wound of themselves and the doors did not fly open at her approach. Those thick-crowding
cares and drudgeries which serve as merciful screens between so many discordant natures would
have been as intolerable to her as was to Amherst the great glare of leisure in which he and
she were now confronted.

He saw that Bessy was in the state of propitiatory eagerness which always followed on her gaining
a point in their long duel; and he could guess that she was tremulously anxious not only to
make up to him, by all the arts she knew, for the sacrifice she had exacted, but also to conceal
from every one the fact that, as Mr. Langhope bluntly put it, he had been "brought to terms."
Amherst was touched by her efforts, and half-ashamed of his own inability to respond to them.
But his mind, released from its normal preoccupations, had become a dangerous instrument of
analysis and disintegration, and conditions which, a few months before, he might have accepted
with the wholesome tolerance of the busy man, now pressed on him unendurably. He saw that he
and his wife were really face to face for the first time since their marriage. Hitherto something
had always intervened between them--first the spell of her grace and beauty, and the brief
joy of her participation in his work; then the sorrow of their child's death, and after that
the temporary exhilaration of carrying out his ideas at Westmore--but now that the last of
these veils had been torn away they faced each other as strangers.

       *       *       *       *       *

The habit of keeping factory hours always drove Amherst forth long before his wife's day began,
and in the course of one of his early tramps he met Miss Brent and Cicely setting out for a
distant swamp where rumour had it that a rare native orchid might be found. Justine's sylvan
tastes had developed in the little girl a passion for such pillaging expeditions, and Cicely,
who had discovered that her step-father knew almost as much about birds and squirrels as Miss
Brent did about flowers, was not to be appeased till Amherst had scrambled into the pony-cart,
wedging his long legs between a fern-box and a lunch-basket, and balancing a Scotch terrier's
telescopic body across his knees.

The season was so mild that only one or two light windless frosts had singed the foliage of
oaks and beeches, and gilded the roadsides with a smooth carpeting of maple leaves. The morning
haze rose like smoke from burnt-out pyres of sumach and sugar-maple; a silver bloom lay on
the furrows of the ploughed fields; and now and then, as they drove on, the wooded road showed
at its end a tarnished disk of light, where sea and sky were merged.

At length they left the road for a winding track through scrub-oaks and glossy thickets of
mountain-laurel; the track died out at the foot of a wooded knoll, and clambering along its
base they came upon the swamp. There it lay in charmed solitude, shut in by a tawny growth
of larch and swamp-maple, its edges burnt out to smouldering shades of russet, ember-red and
ashen-grey, while the quaking centre still preserved a jewel-like green, where hidden lanes
of moisture wound between islets tufted with swamp-cranberry and with the charred browns of
fern and wild rose and bay. Sodden earth and decaying branches gave forth a strange sweet odour,
as of the aromatic essences embalming a dead summer; and the air charged with this scent was
so still that the snapping of witch-hazel pods, the drop of a nut, the leap of a startled frog,
pricked the silence with separate points of sound.

The pony made fast, the terrier released, and fern-box and lunch-basket slung over Amherst's
shoulder, the three explorers set forth on their journey. Amherst, as became his sex, went
first; but after a few absent-minded plunges into the sedgy depths between the islets, he was
ordered to relinquish his command and fall to the rear, where he might perform the humbler
service of occasionally lifting Cicely over unspannable gulfs of moisture.

Justine, leading the way, guided them across the treacherous surface as fearlessly as a king-fisher,
lighting instinctively on every grass-tussock and submerged tree-stump of the uncertain path.
Now and then she paused, her feet drawn close on their narrow perch, and her slender body swaying
over as she reached down for some rare growth detected among the withered reeds and grasses;
then she would right herself again by a backward movement as natural as the upward spring of
a branch--so free and flexible in all her motions that she seemed akin to the swaying reeds
and curving brambles which caught at her as she passed.

At length the explorers reached the mossy corner where the orchids grew, and Cicely, securely
balanced on a fallen tree-trunk, was allowed to dig the coveted roots. When they had been packed
away, it was felt that this culminating moment must be celebrated with immediate libations
of jam and milk; and having climbed to a dry slope among the pepper-bushes, the party fell
on the contents of the lunch-basket. It was just the hour when Bessy's maid was carrying her
breakfast-tray, with its delicate service of old silver and porcelain, into the darkened bed-room
at Lynbrook; but early rising and hard scrambling had whetted the appetites of the naturalists,
and the nursery fare which Cicely spread before them seemed a sumptuous reward for their toil.

"I do like this kind of picnic much better than the ones where mother takes all the footmen,
and the mayonnaise has to be scraped off things before I can eat them," Cicely declared, lifting
her foaming mouth from a beaker of milk.

Amherst, lighting his pipe, stretched himself contentedly among the pepper-bushes, steeped
in that unreflecting peace which is shed into some hearts by communion with trees and sky.
He too was glad to get away from the footmen and the mayonnaise, and he imagined that his stepdaughter's
exclamation summed up all the reasons for his happiness. The boyish wood-craft which he had
cultivated in order to encourage the same taste in his factory lads came to life in this sudden
return to nature, and he redeemed his clumsiness in crossing the swamp by spying a marsh-wren's
nest that had escaped Justine, and detecting in a swiftly-flitting olive-brown bird a belated
tanager in autumn incognito.

Cicely sat rapt while he pictured the bird's winter pilgrimage, with glimpses of the seas and
islands that fled beneath him till his long southern flight ended in the dim glades of the
equatorial forests.

"Oh, what a good life--how I should like to be a wander-bird, and look down people's chimneys
twice a year!" Justine laughed, tilting her head back to catch a last glimpse of the tanager.

The sun beamed full on their ledge from a sky of misty blue, and she had thrown aside her hat,
uncovering her thick waves of hair, blue-black in the hollows, with warm rusty edges where
they took the light. Cicely dragged down a plumy spray of traveller's joy and wound it above
her friend's forehead; and thus wreathed, with her bright pallour relieved against the dusky
autumn tints, Justine looked like a wood-spirit who had absorbed into herself the last golden
juices of the year.

She leaned back laughing against a tree-trunk, pelting Cicely with witch-hazel pods, making
the terrier waltz for scraps of ginger-bread, and breaking off now and then to imitate, with
her clear full notes, the call of some hidden marsh-bird, or the scolding chatter of a squirrel
in the scrub-oaks.

"Is that what you'd like most about the journey--looking down the chimneys?" Amherst asked
with a smile.

"Oh, I don't know--I should love it all! Think of the joy of skimming over half the earth--seeing
it born again out of darkness every morning! Sometimes, when I've been up all night with a
patient, and have seen the world come back to me like that, I've been almost mad with its beauty;
and then the thought that I've never seen more than a little corner of it makes me feel as
if I were chained. But I think if I had wings I should choose to be a house-swallow; and then,
after I'd had my fill of wonders, I should come back to my familiar corner, and my house full
of busy humdrum people, and fly low to warn them of rain, and wheel up high to show them it
was good haying weather, and know what was going on in every room in the house, and every house
in the village; and all the while I should be hugging my wonderful big secret--the secret of
snow-plains and burning deserts, and coral islands and buried cities--and should put it all
into my chatter under the eaves, that the people in the house were always too busy to stop
and listen to--and when winter came I'm sure I should hate to leave them, even to go back to
my great Brazilian forests full of orchids and monkeys!"

"But, Justine, in winter you could take care of the monkeys," the practical Cicely suggested.

"Yes--and that would remind me of home!" Justine cried, swinging about to pinch the little
girl's chin.

She was in one of the buoyant moods when the spirit of life caught her in its grip, and shook
and tossed her on its mighty waves as a sea-bird is tossed through the spray of flying rollers.
At such moments all the light and music of the world seemed distilled into her veins, and forced
up in bubbles of laughter to her lips and eyes. Amherst had never seen her thus, and he watched
her with the sense of relaxation which the contact of limpid gaiety brings to a mind obscured
by failure and self-distrust. The world was not so dark a place after all, if such springs
of merriment could well up in a heart as sensitive as hers to the burden and toil of existence.

"Isn't it strange," she went on with a sudden drop to gravity, "that the bird whose wings carry
him farthest and show him the most wonderful things, is the one who always comes back to the
eaves, and is happiest in the thick of everyday life?"

Her eyes met Amherst's. "It seems to me," he said, "that you're like that yourself--loving
long flights, yet happiest in the thick of life."

She raised her dark brows laughingly. "So I imagine--but then you see I've never had the long
flight!"

Amherst smiled. "Ah, there it is--one never knows--one never says, This is the moment! because,
however good it is, it always seems the door to a better one beyond. Faust never said it till
the end, when he'd nothing left of all he began by thinking worth while; and then, with what
a difference it was said!"

She pondered. "Yes--but it was the best, after all--the moment in which he had nothing left...."

"Oh," Cicely broke in suddenly, "do look at the squirrel up there! See, father--he's off! Let's
follow him!"

As she crouched there, with head thrown back, and sparkling lips and eyes, her fair hair--of
her mother's very hue--making a shining haze about her face, Amherst recalled the winter evening
at Hopewood, when he and Bessy had tracked the grey squirrel under the snowy beeches. Scarcely
three years ago--and how bitter memory had turned! A chilly cloud spread over his spirit, reducing
everything once more to the leaden hue of reality....

"It's too late for any more adventures--we must be going," he said.

XX

AMHERST'S morning excursions with his step-daughter and Miss Brent renewed themselves more
than once. He welcomed any pretext for escaping from the unprofitable round of his thoughts,
and these woodland explorations, with their gay rivalry of search for some rare plant or elusive
bird, and the contact with the child's happy wonder, and with the morning brightness of Justine's
mood, gave him his only moments of self-forgetfulness.

But the first time that Cicely's chatter carried home an echo of their adventures, Amherst
saw a cloud on his wife's face. Her resentment of Justine's influence over the child had long
since subsided, and in the temporary absence of the governess she was glad to have Cicely amused;
but she was never quite satisfied that those about her should have pursuits and diversions
in which she did not share. Her jealousy did not concentrate itself on her husband and Miss
Brent: Amherst had never shown any inclination for the society of other women, and if the possibility
had been suggested to her, she would probably have said that Justine was not "in his style"--so
unconscious is a pretty woman apt to be of the versatility of masculine tastes. But Amherst
saw that she felt herself excluded from amusements in which she had no desire to join, and
of which she consequently failed to see the purpose; and he gave up accompanying his stepdaughter.

Bessy, as if in acknowledgment of his renunciation, rose earlier in order to prolong their
rides together. Dr. Wyant had counselled her against the fatigue of following the hounds, and
she instinctively turned their horses away from the course the hunt was likely to take; but
now and then the cry of the pack, or the flash of red on a distant slope, sent the blood to
her face and made her press her mare to a gallop. When they escaped such encounters she showed
no great zest in the exercise, and their rides resolved themselves into a spiritless middle-aged
jog along the autumn lanes. In the early days of their marriage the joy of a canter side by
side had merged them in a community of sensation beyond need of speech; but now that the physical
spell had passed they felt the burden of a silence that neither knew how to break.

Once only, a moment's friction galvanized these lifeless rides. It was one morning when Bessy's
wild mare Impulse, under-exercised and over-fed, suddenly broke from her control, and would
have unseated her but for Amherst's grasp on the bridle.

"The horse is not fit for you to ride," he exclaimed, as the hot creature, with shudders of
defiance rippling her flanks, lapsed into sullen subjection.

"It's only because I don't ride her enough," Bessy panted. "That new groom is ruining her mouth."

"You must not ride her alone, then."

"I shall not let that man ride her."

"I say you must not ride her alone."

"It's ridiculous to have a groom at one's heels!"

"Nevertheless you must, if you ride Impulse."

Their eyes met, and she quivered and yielded like the horse. "Oh, if you say so--" She always
hugged his brief flashes of authority.

"I do say so. You promise me?"

"If you like----"

       *       *       *       *       *

Amherst had made an attempt to occupy himself with the condition of Lynbrook, one of those
slovenly villages, without individual character or the tradition of self-respect, which spring
up in America on the skirts of the rich summer colonies. But Bessy had never given Lynbrook
a thought, and he realized the futility of hoping to interest her in its mongrel population
of day-labourers and publicans so soon after his glaring failure at Westmore. The sight of
the village irritated him whenever he passed through the Lynbrook gates, but having perforce
accepted the situation of prince consort, without voice in the government, he tried to put
himself out of relation with all the questions which had hitherto engrossed him, and to see
life simply as a spectator. He could even conceive that, under certain conditions, there might
be compensations in the passive attitude; but unfortunately these conditions were not such
as the life at Lynbrook presented.

The temporary cessation of Bessy's week-end parties had naturally not closed her doors to occasional
visitors, and glimpses of the autumnal animation of Long Island passed now and then across
the Amhersts' horizon. Blanche Carbury had installed herself at Mapleside, a fashionable colony
half-way between Lynbrook and Clifton, and even Amherst, unused as he was to noting the seemingly
inconsecutive movements of idle people, could not but remark that her visits to his wife almost
invariably coincided with Ned Bowfort's cantering over unannounced from the Hunt Club, where
he had taken up his autumn quarters.

There was something very likeable about Bowfort, to whom Amherst was attracted by the fact
that he was one of the few men of Bessy's circle who knew what was going on in the outer world.
Throughout an existence which one divined to have been both dependent and desultory, he had
preserved a sense of wider relations and acquired a smattering of information to which he applied
his only independent faculty, that of clear thought. He could talk intelligently and not too
inaccurately of the larger questions which Lynbrook ignored, and a gay indifference to the
importance of money seemed the crowning grace of his nature, till Amherst suddenly learned
that this attitude of detachment was generally ascribed to the liberality of Mrs. Fenton Carbury.
"Everybody knows she married Fenton to provide for Ned," some one let fall in the course of
one of the smoking-room dissertations on which the host of Lynbrook had such difficulty in
fixing his attention; and the speaker's matter-of-course tone, and the careless acquiescence
of his hearers, were more offensive to Amherst than the fact itself. In the first flush of
his disgust he classed the story as one of the lies bred in the malarious air of after-dinner
gossip; but gradually he saw that, whether true or not, it had sufficient circulation to cast
a shade of ambiguity on the persons concerned. Bessy alone seemed deaf to the rumours about
her friend. There was something captivating to her in Mrs. Carbury's slang and noise, in her
defiance of decorum and contempt of criticism. "I like Blanche because she doesn't pretend,"
was Bessy's vague justification of the lady; but in reality she was under the mysterious spell
which such natures cast over the less venturesome imaginations of their own sex.

Amherst at first tried to deaden himself to the situation, as part of the larger coil of miseries
in which he found himself; but all his traditions were against such tolerance, and they were
roused to revolt by the receipt of a newspaper clipping, sent by an anonymous hand, enlarging
on the fact that the clandestine meetings of a fashionable couple were being facilitated by
the connivance of a Long Island châtelaine. Amherst, hot from the perusal of this paragraph,
sprang into the first train, and laid the clipping before his father-in-law, who chanced to
be passing through town on his way from the Hudson to the Hot Springs.

Mr. Langhope, ensconced in the cushioned privacy of the reading-room at the Amsterdam Club,
where he had invited his son-in-law to meet him, perused the article with the cool eye of the
collector to whom a new curiosity is offered.

"I suppose," he mused, "that in the time of the Pharaohs the Morning Papyrus used to serve
up this kind of thing"--and then, as the nervous tension of his hearer expressed itself in
an abrupt movement, he added, handing back the clipping with a smile: "What do you propose
to do? Kill the editor, and forbid Blanche and Bowfort the house?"

"I mean to do something," Amherst began, suddenly chilled by the realization that his wrath
had not yet shaped itself into a definite plan of action.

"Well, it must be that or nothing," said Mr. Langhope, drawing his stick meditatively across
his knee. "And, of course, if it's that, you'll land Bessy in a devil of a mess."

Without giving his son-in-law time to protest, he touched rapidly but vividly on the inutility
and embarrassment of libel suits, and on the devices whereby the legal means of vindication
from such attacks may be turned against those who have recourse to them; and Amherst listened
with a sickened sense of the incompatibility between abstract standards of honour and their
practical application.

"What should you do, then?" he murmured, as Mr. Langhope ended with his light shrug and a "See
Tredegar, if you don't believe me"--; and his father-in-law replied with an evasive gesture:
"Why, leave the responsibility where it belongs!"

"Where it belongs?"

"To Fenton Carbury, of course. Luckily it's nobody's business but his, and if he doesn't mind
what is said about his wife I don't see how you can take up the cudgels for her without casting
another shade on her somewhat chequered reputation."

Amherst stared. "His wife? What do I care what's said of her? I'm thinking of mine!"

"Well, if Carbury has no objection to his wife's meeting Bowfort, I don't see how you can object
to her meeting him at your house. In such matters, as you know, it has mercifully been decided
that the husband's attitude shall determine other people's; otherwise we should be deprived
of the legitimate pleasure of slandering our neighbours." Mr. Langhope was always careful to
temper his explanations with an "as you know": he would have thought it ill-bred to omit this
parenthesis in elucidating the social code to his son-in-law.

"Then you mean that I can do nothing?" Amherst exclaimed.

Mr. Langhope smiled. "What applies to Carbury applies to you--by doing nothing you establish
the fact that there's nothing to do; just as you create the difficulty by recognizing it."
And he added, as Amherst sat silent: "Take Bessy away, and they'll have to see each other elsewhere."

       *       *       *       *       *

Amherst returned to Lynbrook with the echoes of this casuistry in his brain. It seemed to him
but a part of the ingenious system of evasion whereby a society bent on the undisturbed pursuit
of amusement had contrived to protect itself from the intrusion of the disagreeable: a policy
summed up in Mr. Langhope's concluding advice that Amherst should take his wife away. Yes--that
was wealth's contemptuous answer to every challenge of responsibility: duty, sorrow and disgrace
were equally to be evaded by a change of residence, and nothing in life need be faced and fought
out while one could pay for a passage to Europe!

In a calmer mood Amherst's sense of humour would have preserved him from such a view of his
father-in-law's advice; but just then it fell like a spark on his smouldering prejudices. He
was clear-sighted enough to recognize the obstacles to legal retaliation; but this only made
him the more resolved to assert his will in his own house. He no longer paused to consider
the possible effect of such a course on his already strained relations with his wife: the man's
will rose in him and spoke.

The scene between Bessy and himself was short and sharp; and it ended in a way that left him
more than ever perplexed at the ways of her sex. Impatient of preamble, he had opened the attack
with his ultimatum: the suspected couple were to be denied the house. Bessy flamed into immediate
defence of her friend; but to Amherst's surprise she no longer sounded the note of her own
rights. Husband and wife were animated by emotions deeper-seated and more instinctive than
had ever before confronted them; yet while Amherst's resistance was gathering strength from
the conflict, Bessy unexpectedly collapsed in tears and submission. She would do as he wished,
of course--give up seeing Blanche, dismiss Bowfort, wash her hands, in short, of the imprudent
pair--in such matters a woman needed a man's guidance, a wife must of necessity see with her
husband's eyes; and she looked up into his through a mist of penitence and admiration....

XXI

IN the first reaction from her brief delusion about Stephen Wyant, Justine accepted with a
good grace the necessity of staying on at Lynbrook. Though she was now well enough to return
to her regular work, her talk with Amherst had made her feel that, for the present, she could
be of more use by remaining with Bessy; and she was not sorry to have a farther period of delay
and reflection before taking the next step in her life. These at least were the reasons she
gave herself for deciding not to leave; and if any less ostensible lurked beneath, they were
not as yet visible even to her searching self-scrutiny.

At first she was embarrassed by the obligation of meeting Dr. Wyant, on whom her definite refusal
had produced an effect for which she could not hold herself blameless. She had not kept her
promise of seeing him on the day after their encounter at the post-office, but had written,
instead, in terms which obviously made such a meeting unnecessary. But all her efforts to soften
the abruptness of her answer could not conceal, from either herself or her suitor, that it
was not the one she had led him to expect; and she foresaw that if she remained at Lynbrook
she could not escape a scene of recrimination.

When the scene took place, Wyant's part in it went far toward justifying her decision; yet
his vehement reproaches contained a sufficient core of truth to humble her pride. It was lucky
for her somewhat exaggerated sense of fairness that he overshot the mark by charging her with
a coquetry of which she knew herself innocent, and laying on her the responsibility for any
follies to which her rejection might drive him. Such threats, as a rule, no longer move the
feminine imagination; yet Justine's pity for all forms of weakness made her recognize, in the
very heat of her contempt for Wyant, that his reproaches were not the mere cry of wounded vanity
but the appeal of a nature conscious of its lack of recuperative power. It seemed to her as
though she had done him irreparable harm, and the feeling might have betrayed her into too
great a show of compassion had she not been restrained by a salutary fear of the result.

The state of Bessy's nerves necessitated frequent visits from her physician, but Justine, on
these occasions, could usually shelter herself behind the professional reserve which kept even
Wyant from any open expression of feeling. One day, however, they chanced to find themselves
alone before Bessy's return from her ride. The servant had ushered Wyant into the library where
Justine was writing, and when she had replied to his enquiries about his patient they found
themselves face to face with an awkward period of waiting. Justine was too proud to cut it
short by leaving the room; but Wyant answered her commonplaces at random, stirring uneasily
to and fro between window and fireside, and at length halting behind the table at which she sat.

"May I ask how much longer you mean to stay here?" he said in a low voice, his eyes darkening
under the sullen jut of the brows.

As she glanced up in surprise she noticed for the first time an odd contraction of his pupils,
and the discovery, familiar enough in her professional experience, made her disregard the abruptness
of his question and softened the tone in which she answered. "I hardly know--I suppose as long
as I am needed."

Wyant laughed. "Needed by whom? By John Amherst?"

A moment passed before Justine took in the full significance of the retort; then the blood
rushed to her face. "Yes--I believe both Mr. and Mrs. Amherst need me," she answered, keeping
her eyes on his; and Wyant laughed again.

"You didn't think so till Amherst came back from Hanaford. His return seems to have changed
your plans in several respects."

She looked away from him, for even now his eyes moved her to pity and self-reproach. "Dr. Wyant,
you are not well; why do you wait to see Mrs. Amherst?" she said.

He stared at her and then his glance fell. "I'm much obliged--I'm as well as usual," he muttered,
pushing the hair from his forehead with a shaking hand; and at that moment the sound of Bessy's
voice gave Justine a pretext for escape.

In her own room she sank for a moment under a rush of self-disgust; but it soon receded before
the saner forces of her nature, leaving only a residue of pity for the poor creature whose
secret she had surprised. She had never before suspected Wyant of taking a drug, nor did she
now suppose that he did so habitually; but to see him even momentarily under such an influence
explained her instinctive sense of his weakness. She felt now that what would have been an
insult on other lips was only a cry of distress from his; and once more she blamed herself
and forgave him.

But if she had been inclined to any morbidness of self-reproach she would have been saved from
it by other cares. For the moment she was more concerned with Bessy's fate than with her own--her
poor friend seemed to have so much more at stake, and so much less strength to bring to the
defence of her happiness. Justine was always saved from any excess of self-compassion by the
sense, within herself, of abounding forces of growth and self-renewal, as though from every
lopped aspiration a fresh shoot of energy must spring; but she felt that Bessy had no such
sources of renovation, and that every disappointment left an arid spot in her soul.

Even without her friend's confidences, Justine would have had no difficulty in following the
successive stages of the Amhersts' inner history. She knew that Amherst had virtually resigned
his rule at Westmore, and that his wife, in return for the sacrifice, was trying to conform
to the way of life she thought he preferred; and the futility of both attempts was more visible
to Justine than to either of the two concerned. She saw that the failure of the Amhersts' marriage
lay not in any accident of outward circumstances but in the lack of all natural points of contact.
As she put it to herself, they met neither underfoot nor overhead: practical necessities united
them no more than imaginative joys.

There were moments when Justine thought Amherst hard to Bessy, as she suspected that he had
once been hard to his mother--as the leader of men must perhaps always be hard to the hampering
sex. Yet she did justice to his efforts to accept the irretrievable, and to waken in his wife
some capacity for sharing in his minor interests, since she had none of her own with which
to fill their days.

Amherst had always been a reader; not, like Justine herself, a flame-like devourer of the page,
but a slow absorber of its essence; and in the early days of his marriage he had fancied it
would be easy to make Bessy share this taste. Though his mother was not a bookish woman, he
had breathed at her side an air rich in allusion and filled with the bright presences of romance;
and he had always regarded this commerce of the imagination as one of the normal conditions
of life. The discovery that there were no books at Lynbrook save a few morocco "sets" imprisoned
behind the brass trellisings of the library had been one of the many surprises of his new state.
But in his first months with Bessy there was no room for books, and if he thought of the matter
it was only in a glancing vision of future evenings, when he and she, in the calm afterglow
of happiness, should lean together over some cherished page. Her lack of response to any reference
outside the small circle of daily facts had long since dispelled that vision; but now that
his own mind felt the need of inner sustenance he began to ask himself whether he might not
have done more to rouse her imagination. During the long evenings over the library fire he
tried to lead the talk to books, with a parenthesis, now and again, from the page beneath his
eye; and Bessy met the experiment with conciliatory eagerness. She showed, in especial, a hopeful
but misleading preference for poetry, leaning back with dreaming lids and lovely parted lips
while he rolled out the immortal measures; but her outward signs of attention never ripened
into any expression of opinion, or any after-allusion to what she heard, and before long he
discovered that Justine Brent was his only listener. It was to her that the words he read began
to be unconsciously addressed; her comments directed him in his choice of subjects, and the
ensuing discussions restored him to some semblance of mental activity.

Bessy, true to her new rôle of acquiescence, shone silently on this interchange of ideas; Amherst
even detected in her a vague admiration for his power of conversing on subjects which she regarded
as abstruse; and this childlike approval, combined with her submission to his will, deluded
him with a sense of recovered power over her. He could not but note that the new phase in their
relations had coincided with his first assertion of mastery; and he rashly concluded that,
with the removal of the influences tending to separate them, his wife might gradually be won
back to her earlier sympathy with his views.

To accept this theory was to apply it; for nothing could long divert Amherst from his main
purpose, and all the thwarted strength of his will was only gathering to itself fresh stores
of energy. He had never been a skilful lover, for no woman had as yet stirred in him those
feelings which call the finer perceptions into play; and there was no instinct to tell him
that Bessy's sudden conformity to his wishes was as unreasoning as her surrender to his first
kiss. He fancied that he and she were at length reaching some semblance of that moral harmony
which should grow out of the physical accord, and that, poor and incomplete as the understanding
was, it must lift and strengthen their relation.

He waited till early winter had brought solitude to Lynbrook, dispersing the hunting colony
to various points of the compass, and sending Mr. Langhope to Egypt and the Riviera, while
Mrs. Ansell, as usual, took up her annual tour of a social circuit whose extreme points were
marked by Boston and Baltimore--and then he made his final appeal to his wife.

His pretext for speaking was a letter from Duplain, definitely announcing his resolve not to
remain at Westmore. A year earlier Amherst, deeply moved by the letter, would have given it
to his wife in the hope of its producing the same effect on her. He knew better now--he had
learned her instinct for detecting "business" under every serious call on her attention. His
only hope, as always, was to reach her through the personal appeal; and he put before her the
fact of Duplain's withdrawal as the open victory of his antagonists. But he saw at once that
even this could not infuse new life into the question.

"If I go back he'll stay--I can hold him, can gain time till things take a turn," he urged.

"Another? I thought they were definitely settled," she objected languidly.

"No--they're not; they can't be, on such a basis," Amherst broke out with sudden emphasis.
He walked across the room, and came back to her side with a determined face. "It's a delusion,
a deception," he exclaimed, "to think I can stand by any longer and see things going to ruin
at Westmore! If I've made you think so, I've unconsciously deceived us both. As long as you're
my wife we've only one honour between us, and that honour is mine to take care of."

"Honour? What an odd expression!" she said with a forced laugh, and a little tinge of pink
in her cheek. "You speak as if I had--had made myself talked about --when you know I've never
even looked at another man!"

"Another man?" Amherst looked at her in wonder. "Good God! Can't you conceive of any vow to
be kept between husband and wife but the primitive one of bodily fidelity? Heaven knows I've
never looked at another woman--but, by my reading of our compact, I shouldn't be keeping faith
with you if I didn't help you to keep faith with better things. And you owe me the same help--the
same chance to rise through you, and not sink by you--else we've betrayed each other more deeply
than any adultery could make us!"

She had drawn back, turning pale again, and shrinking a little at the sound of words which,
except when heard in church, she vaguely associated with oaths, slammed doors, and other evidences
of ill-breeding; but Amherst had been swept too far on the flood of his indignation to be checked
by such small signs of disapproval.

"You'll say that what I'm asking you is to give me back the free use of your money. Well! Why
not? Is it so much for a wife to give? I know you all think that a man who marries a rich woman
forfeits his self-respect if he spends a penny without her approval. But that's because money
is so sacred to you all! It seems to me the least important thing that a woman entrusts to
her husband. What of her dreams and her hopes, her belief in justice and goodness and decency?
If he takes those and destroys them, he'd better have had a mill-stone about his neck. But
nobody has a word to say till he touches her dividends--then he's a calculating brute who has
married her for her fortune!"

He had come close again, facing her with outstretched hands, half-commanding, half in appeal.
"Don't you see that I can't go on in this way--that I've no right to let you keep me from Westmore?"

Bessy was looking at him coldly, under the half-dropped lids of indifference. "I hardly know
what you mean--you use such peculiar words; but I don't see why you should expect me to give
up all the ideas I was brought up in. Our standards are different--but why should yours always
be right?"

"You believed they were right when you married me--have they changed since then?"

"No; but----" Her face seemed to harden and contract into a small expressionless mask, in which
he could no longer read anything but blank opposition to his will.

"You trusted my judgment not long ago," he went on, "when I asked you to give up seeing Mrs.
Carbury----"

She flushed, but with anger, not compunction. "It seems to me that should be a reason for your
not asking me to make other sacrifices! When I gave up Blanche I thought you would see that
I wanted to please you--and that you would do something for me in return...."

Amherst interrupted her with a laugh. "Thank you for telling me your real reasons. I was fool
enough to think you acted from conviction--not that you were simply striking a bargain----"

He broke off, and they looked at each other with a kind of fear, each hearing between them
the echo of irreparable words. Amherst's only clear feeling was that he must not speak again
till he had beaten down the horrible sensation in his breast--the rage of hate which had him
in its grip, and which made him almost afraid, while it lasted, to let his eyes rest on the
fair weak creature before him. Bessy, too, was in the clutch of a mute anger which slowly poured
its benumbing current around her heart. Strong waves of passion did not quicken her vitality:
she grew inert and cold under their shock. Only one little pulse of self-pity continued to
beat in her, trembling out at last on the cry: "Ah, I know it's not because you care so much
for Westmore--it's only because you want to get away from me!"

Amherst stared as if her words had flashed a light into the darkest windings of his misery.
"Yes--I want to get away..." he said; and he turned and walked out of the room.

He went down to the smoking-room, and ringing for a servant, ordered his horse to be saddled.
The foot-man who answered his summons brought the afternoon's mail, and Amherst, throwing himself
down on the sofa, began to tear open his letters while he waited.

He ran through the first few without knowing what he read; but presently his attention was
arrested by the hand-writing of a man he had known well in college, and who had lately come
into possession of a large cotton-mill in the South. He wrote now to ask if Amherst could recommend
a good manager--"not one of your old routine men, but a young fellow with the new ideas. Things
have been in pretty bad shape down here," the writer added, "and now that I'm in possession
I want to see what can be done to civilize the place"; and he went on to urge that Amherst
should come down himself to inspect the mills, and propose such improvements as his experience
suggested. "We've all heard of the great things you're doing at Westmore," the letter ended;
and Amherst cast it from him with a groan....

It was Duplain's chance, of course...that was his first thought. He took up the letter and
read it over. He knew the man who wrote--no sentimentalist seeking emotional variety from vague
philanthropic experiments, but a serious student of social conditions, now unexpectedly provided
with the opportunity to apply his ideas. Yes, it was Duplain's chance--if indeed it might not
be his own!... Amherst sat upright, dazzled by the thought. Why Duplain--why not himself? Bessy
had spoken the illuminating word--what he wanted was to get away--to get away at any cost!
Escape had become his one thought: escape from the bondage of Lynbrook, from the bitter memory
of his failure at Westmore; and here was the chance to escape back into life--into independence,
activity and usefulness! Every atrophied faculty in him suddenly started from its torpor, and
his brain throbbed with the pain of the awakening.... The servant came to tell him that his
horse waited, and he sprang up, took his riding-whip from the rack, stared a moment, absently,
after the man's retreating back, and then dropped down again on the sofa....

What was there to keep him from accepting? His wife's affection was dead--if her sentimental
fancy for him had ever deserved the name! And his passing mastery over her was gone too--he
smiled to remember that, hardly two hours earlier, he had been fatuous enough to think he could
still regain it! Now he said to himself that she would sooner desert a friend to please him
than sacrifice a fraction of her income; and the discovery cast a stain of sordidness on their
whole relation. He could still imagine struggling to win her back from another man, or even
to save her from some folly into which mistaken judgment or perverted enthusiasm might have
hurried her; but to go on battling against the dull unimaginative subservience to personal
luxury--the slavery to houses and servants and clothes--ah, no, while he had any fight left
in him it was worth spending in a better cause than that!

Through the open window he could hear, in the mild December stillness, his horse's feet coming
and going on the gravel. Her horse, led up and down by her servant, at the door of her house!...
The sound symbolized his whole future...the situation his marriage had made for him, and to
which he must henceforth bend, unless he broke with it then and there.... He tried to look
ahead, to follow up, one by one, the consequences of such a break. That it would be final he
had no doubt. There are natures which seem to be drawn closer by dissension, to depend, for
the renewal of understanding, on the spark of generosity and compunction that anger strikes
out of both; but Amherst knew that between himself and his wife no such clearing of the moral
atmosphere was possible. The indignation which left him with tingling nerves and a burning
need of some immediate escape into action, crystallized in Bessy into a hard kernel of obstinacy,
into which, after each fresh collision, he felt that a little more of herself had been absorbed....
No, the break between them would be final--if he went now he would not come back. And it flashed
across him that this solution might have been foreseen by his wife--might even have been deliberately
planned and led up to by those about her. His father-in-law had never liked him--the disturbing
waves of his activity had rippled even the sheltered surface of Mr. Langhope's existence. He
must have been horribly in their way! Well--it was not too late to take himself out of it.
In Bessy's circle the severing of such ties was regarded as an expensive but unhazardous piece
of surgery--nobody bled to death of the wound.... The footman came back to remind him that
his horse was waiting, and Amherst rose to his feet.

"Send him back to the stable," he said with a glance at his watch, "and order a trap to take
me to the next train."

XXII

WHEN Amherst woke, the next morning, in the hotel to which he had gone up from Lynbrook, he
was oppressed by the sense that the hardest step he had to take still lay before him. It had
been almost easy to decide that the moment of separation had come, for circumstances seemed
to have closed every other issue from his unhappy situation; but how tell his wife of his decision?
Amherst, to whom action was the first necessity of being, became a weak procrastinator when
he was confronted by the need of writing instead of speaking.

To account for his abrupt departure from Lynbrook he had left word that he was called to town
on business; but, since he did not mean to return, some farther explanation was now necessary,
and he was paralyzed by the difficulty of writing. He had already telegraphed to his friend
that he would be at the mills the next day; but the southern express did not leave till the
afternoon, and he still had several hours in which to consider what he should say to his wife.
To postpone the dreaded task, he invented the pretext of some business to be despatched, and
taking the Subway to Wall Street consumed the morning in futile activities. But since the renunciation
of his work at Westmore he had no active concern with the financial world, and by twelve o'clock
he had exhausted his imaginary affairs and was journeying up town again. He left the train
at Union Square, and walked along Fourth Avenue, now definitely resolved to go back to the
hotel and write his letter before lunching.

At Twenty-sixth Street he had struck into Madison Avenue, and was striding onward with the
fixed eye and aimless haste of the man who has empty hours to fill, when a hansom drew up ahead
of him and Justine Brent sprang out. She was trimly dressed, as if for travel, with a small
bag in her hand; but at sight of him she paused with a cry of pleasure.

"Oh, Mr. Amherst, I'm so glad! I was afraid I might not see you for goodbye."

"For goodbye?" Amherst paused, embarrassed. How had she guessed that he did not mean to return
to Lynbrook?

"You know," she reminded him, "I'm going to some friends near Philadelphia for ten days"--and
he remembered confusedly that a long time ago--probably yesterday morning--he had heard her
speak of her projected visit.

"I had no idea," she continued, "that you were coming up to town yesterday, or I should have
tried to see you before you left. I wanted to ask you to send me a line if Bessy needs me--I'll
come back at once if she does." Amherst continued to listen blankly, as if making a painful
effort to regain some consciousness of what was being said to him, and she went on: "She seemed
so nervous and poorly yesterday evening that I was sorry I had decided to go----"

Her intent gaze reminded him that the emotions of the last twenty-four hours must still be
visible in his face; and the thought of what she might detect helped to restore his self-possession.
"You must not think of giving up your visit," he began hurriedly--he had meant to add "on account
of Bessy," but he found himself unable to utter his wife's name.

Justine was still looking at him. "Oh, I'm sure everything will be all right," she rejoined.
"You go back this afternoon, I suppose? I've left you a little note, with my address, and I
want you to promise----"

She paused, for Amherst had made a motion as though to interrupt her. The old confused sense
that there must always be truth between them was struggling in him with the strong restraints
of habit and character; and suddenly, before he was conscious of having decided to speak, he
heard himself say: "I ought to tell you that I am not going back."

"Not going back?" A flash of apprehension crossed Justine's face. "Not till tomorrow, you mean?"
she added, recovering herself.

Amherst hesitated, glancing vaguely up and down the street. At that noonday hour it was nearly
deserted, and Justine's driver dozed on his perch above the hansom. They could speak almost
as openly as if they had been in one of the wood-paths at Lynbrook.

"Nor tomorrow," Amherst said in a low voice. There was another pause before he added: "It may
be some time before--" He broke off, and then continued with an effort: "The fact is, I am
thinking of going back to my old work."

She caught him up with an exclamation of surprise and sympathy. "Your old work? You mean at----"

She was checked by the quick contraction of pain in his face. "Not that! I mean that I'm thinking
of taking a new job--as manager of a Georgia mill.... It's the only thing I know how to do,
and I've got to do something--" He forced a laugh. "The habit of work is incurable!"

Justine's face had grown as grave as his. She hesitated a moment, looking down the street toward
the angle of Madison Square, which was visible from the corner where they stood.

"Will you walk back to the square with me? Then we can sit down a moment."

She began to move as she spoke, and he walked beside her in silence till they had gained the
seat she pointed out. Her hansom trailed after them, drawing up at the corner.

As Amherst sat down beside her, Justine turned to him with an air of quiet resolution. "Mr.
Amherst--will you let me ask you something? Is this a sudden decision?"

"Yes. I decided yesterday."

"And Bessy----?"

His glance dropped for the first time, but Justine pressed her point. "Bessy approves?"

"She--she will, I think--when she knows----"

"When she knows?" Her emotion sprang into her face. "When she knows? Then she does not--yet?"

"No. The offer came suddenly. I must go at once."

"Without seeing her?" She cut him short with a quick commanding gesture. "Mr. Amherst, you
can't do this--you won't do it! You will not go away without seeing Bessy!" she said.

Her eyes sought his and drew them upward, constraining them to meet the full beam of her rebuking
gaze.

"I must do what seems best under the circumstances," he answered hesitatingly. "She will hear
from me, of course; I shall write today--and later----"

"Not later! Now--you will go back now to Lynbrook! Such things can't be told in writing--if
they must be said at all, they must be spoken. Don't tell me that I don't understand--or that
I'm meddling in what doesn't concern me. I don't care a fig for that! I've always meddled in
what didn't concern me--I always shall, I suppose, till I die! And I understand enough to know
that Bessy is very unhappy--and that you're the wiser and stronger of the two. I know what
it's been to you to give up your work--to feel yourself useless," she interrupted herself,
with softening eyes, "and I know how you've tried...I've watched you...but Bessy has tried
too; and even if you've both failed--if you've come to the end of your resources--it's for
you to face the fact, and help her face it--not to run away from it like this!"

Amherst sat silent under the assault of her eloquence. He was conscious of no instinctive resentment,
no sense that she was, as she confessed, meddling in matters which did not concern her. His
ebbing spirit was revived by the shock of an ardour like his own. She had not shrunk from calling
him a coward--and it did him good to hear her call him so! Her words put life back into its
true perspective, restored their meaning to obsolete terms: to truth and manliness and courage.
He had lived so long among equivocations that he had forgotten how to look a fact in the face;
but here was a woman who judged life by his own standards--and by those standards she had found
him wanting!

Still, he could not forget the last bitter hours, or change his opinion as to the futility
of attempting to remain at Lynbrook. He felt as strongly as ever the need of moral and mental
liberation--the right to begin life again on his own terms. But Justine Brent had made him
see that his first step toward self-assertion had been the inconsistent one of trying to evade
its results.

"You are right--I will go back," he said.

She thanked him with her eyes, as she had thanked him on the terrace at Lynbrook, on the autumn
evening which had witnessed their first broken exchange of confidences; and he was struck once
more with the change that feeling produced in her. Emotions flashed across her face like the
sweep of sun-rent clouds over a quiet landscape, bringing out the gleam of hidden waters, the
fervour of smouldering colours, all the subtle delicacies of modelling that are lost under
the light of an open sky. And it was extraordinary how she could infuse into a principle the
warmth and colour of a passion! If conduct, to most people, seemed a cold matter of social
prudence or inherited habit, to her it was always the newly-discovered question of her own
relation to life--as most women see the great issues only through their own wants and prejudices,
so she seemed always to see her personal desires in the light of the larger claims.

"But I don't think," Amherst went on, "that anything can be said to convince me that I ought
to alter my decision. These months of idleness have shown me that I'm one of the members of
society who are a danger to the community if their noses are not kept to the grindstone----"

Justine lowered her eyes musingly, and he saw she was undergoing the reaction of constraint
which always followed on her bursts of unpremeditated frankness.

"That is not for me to judge," she answered after a moment. "But if you decide to go away for
a time--surely it ought to be in such a way that your going does not seem to cast any reflection
on Bessy, or subject her to any unkind criticism."

Amherst, reddening slightly, glanced at her in surprise. "I don't think you need fear that--I
shall be the only one criticized," he said drily.

"Are you sure--if you take such a position as you spoke of? So few people understand the love
of hard work for its own sake. They will say that your quarrel with your wife has driven you
to support yourself--and that will be cruel to Bessy."

Amherst shrugged his shoulders. "They'll be more likely to say I tried to play the gentleman
and failed, and wasn't happy till I got back to my own place in life--which is true enough,"
he added with a touch of irony.

"They may say that too; but they will make Bessy suffer first--and it will be your fault if
she is humiliated in that way. If you decide to take up your factory work for a time, can't
you do so without--without accepting a salary? Oh, you see I stick at nothing," she broke in
upon herself with a laugh, "and Bessy has said things which make me see that she would suffer
horribly if--if you put such a slight on her." He remained silent, and she went on urgently:
"From Bessy's standpoint it would mean a decisive break--the repudiating of your whole past.
And it is a question on which you can afford to be generous, because I know...I think...it's
less important in your eyes than hers...."

Amherst glanced at her quickly. "That particular form of indebtedness, you mean?"

She smiled. "The easiest to cancel, and therefore the least galling; isn't that the way you
regard it?"

"I used to--yes; but--" He was about to add: "No one at Lynbrook does," but the flash of intelligence
in her eyes restrained him, while at the same time it seemed to answer: "There's my point!
To see their limitation is to allow for it, since every enlightenment brings a corresponding
obligation."

She made no attempt to put into words the argument her look conveyed, but rose from her seat
with a rapid glance at her watch.

"And now I must go, or I shall miss my train." She held out her hand, and as Amherst's met
it, he said in a low tone, as if in reply to her unspoken appeal: "I shall remember all you
have said."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a new experience for Amherst to be acting under the pressure of another will; but during
his return journey to Lynbrook that afternoon it was pure relief to surrender himself to this
pressure, and the surrender brought not a sense of weakness but of recovered energy. It was
not in his nature to analyze his motives, or spend his strength in weighing closely balanced
alternatives of conduct; and though, during the last purposeless months, he had grown to brood
over every spring of action in himself and others, this tendency disappeared at once in contact
with the deed to be done. It was as though a tributary stream, gathering its crystal speed
among the hills, had been suddenly poured into the stagnant waters of his will; and he saw
now how thick and turbid those waters had become--how full of the slime-bred life that chokes
the springs of courage.

His whole desire now was to be generous to his wife: to bear the full brunt of whatever pain
their parting brought. Justine had said that Bessy seemed nervous and unhappy: it was clear,
therefore, that she also had suffered from the wounds they had dealt each other, though she
kept her unmoved front to the last. Poor child! Perhaps that insensible exterior was the only
way she knew of expressing courage! It seemed to Amherst that all means of manifesting the
finer impulses must slowly wither in the Lynbrook air. As he approached his destination, his
thoughts of her were all pitiful: nothing remained of the personal resentment which had debased
their parting. He had telephoned from town to announce the hour of his return, and when he
emerged from the station he half-expected to find her seated in the brougham whose lamps signalled
him through the early dusk. It would be like her to undergo such a reaction of feeling, and
to express it, not in words, but by taking up their relation as if there had been no break
in it. He had once condemned this facility of renewal as a sign of lightness, a result of that
continual evasion of serious issues which made the life of Bessy's world a thin crust of custom
above a void of thought. But he now saw that, if she was the product of her environment, that
constituted but another claim on his charity, and made the more precious any impulses of natural
feeling that had survived the unifying pressure of her life. As he approached the brougham,
he murmured mentally: "What if I were to try once more?"

Bessy had not come to meet him; but he said to himself that he should find her alone at the
house, and that he would make his confession at once. As the carriage passed between the lights
on the tall stone gate-posts, and rolled through the bare shrubberies of the avenue, he felt
a momentary tightening of the heart--a sense of stepping back into the trap from which he had
just wrenched himself free--a premonition of the way in which the smooth systematized routine
of his wife's existence might draw him back into its revolutions as he had once seen a careless
factory hand seized and dragged into a flying belt....

But it was only for a moment; then his thoughts reverted to Bessy. It was she who was to be
considered--this time he must be strong enough for both.

The butler met him on the threshold, flanked by the usual array of footmen; and as he saw his
portmanteau ceremoniously passed from hand to hand, Amherst once more felt the steel of the
springe on his neck.

"Is Mrs. Amherst in the drawing-room, Knowles?" he asked.

"No, sir," said Knowles, who had too high a sense of fitness to volunteer any information beyond
the immediate fact required of him.

"She has gone up to her sitting-room, then?" Amherst continued, turning toward the broad sweep
of the stairway.

"No, sir," said the butler slowly; "Mrs. Amherst has gone away."

"Gone away?" Amherst stopped short, staring blankly at the man's smooth official mask.

"This afternoon, sir; to Mapleside."

"To Mapleside?"

"Yes, sir, by motor--to stay with Mrs. Carbury."

There was a moment's silence. It had all happened so quickly that Amherst, with the dual vision
which comes at such moments, noticed that the third footman--or was it the fourth?--was just
passing his portmanteau on to a shirt-sleeved arm behind the door which led to the servant's
wing....

He roused himself to look at the tall clock. It was just six. He had telephoned from town at two.

"At what time did Mrs. Amherst leave?"

The butler meditated. "Sharp at four, sir. The maid took the three-forty with the luggage."

With the luggage! So it was not a mere one-night visit. The blood rose slowly to Amherst's
face. The footmen had disappeared, but presently the door at the back of the hall reopened,
and one of them came out, carrying an elaborately-appointed tea-tray toward the smoking-room.
The routine of the house was going on as if nothing had happened.... The butler looked at Amherst
with respectful--too respectful--interrogation, and he was suddenly conscious that he was standing
motionless in the middle of the hall, with one last intolerable question on his lips.

Well--it had to be spoken! "Did Mrs. Amherst receive my telephone message?"

"Yes, sir. I gave it to her myself."

It occurred confusedly to Amherst that a well-bred man--as Lynbrook understood the phrase--would,
at this point, have made some tardy feint of being in his wife's confidence, of having, on
second thoughts, no reason to be surprised at her departure. It was humiliating, he supposed,
to be thus laying bare his discomfiture to his dependents--he could see that even Knowles was
affected by the manifest impropriety of the situation--but no pretext presented itself to his
mind, and after another interval of silence he turned slowly toward the door of the smoking-room.

"My letters are here, I suppose?" he paused on the threshold to enquire; and on the butler's
answering in the affirmative, he said to himself, with a last effort to suspend his judgment:
"She has left a line--there will be some explanation----"

But there was nothing--neither word nor message; nothing but the reverberating retort of her
departure in the face of his return--her flight to Blanche Carbury as the final answer to his
final appeal.

XXIII

JUSTINE was coming back to Lynbrook. She had been, after all, unable to stay out the ten days
of her visit: the undefinable sense of being needed, so often the determining motive of her
actions, drew her back to Long Island at the end of the week. She had received no word from
Amherst or Bessy; only Cicely had told her, in a big round hand, that mother had been away
three days, and that it had been very lonely, and that the housekeeper's cat had kittens, and
she was to have one; and were kittens christened, or how did they get their names?--because
she wanted to call hers Justine; and she had found in her book a bird like the one father had
shown them in the swamp; and they were not alone now, because the Telfers were there, and they
had all been out sleighing; but it would be much nicer when Justine came back....

It was as difficult to extract any sequence of facts from Cicely's letter as from an early
chronicle. She made no reference to Amherst's return, which was odd, since she was fond of
her step-father, yet not significant, since the fact of his arrival might have been crowded
out by the birth of the kittens, or some incident equally prominent in her perspectiveless
grouping of events; nor did she name the date of her mother's departure, so that Justine could
not guess whether it had been contingent on Amherst's return, or wholly unconnected with it.
What puzzled her most was Bessy's own silence--yet that too, in a sense, was reassuring, for
Bessy thought of others chiefly when it was painful to think of herself, and her not writing
implied that she had felt no present need of her friend's sympathy.

Justine did not expect to find Amherst at Lynbrook. She had felt convinced, when they parted,
that he would persist in his plan of going south; and the fact that the Telfer girls were again
in possession made it seem probable that he had already left. Under the circumstances, Justine
thought the separation advisable; but she was eager to be assured that it had been effected
amicably, and without open affront to Bessy's pride.

She arrived on a Saturday afternoon, and when she entered the house the sound of voices from
the drawing-room, and the prevailing sense of bustle and movement amid which her own coming
was evidently an unconsidered detail, showed that the normal life of Lynbrook had resumed its
course. The Telfers, as usual, had brought a lively throng in their train; and amid the bursts
of merriment about the drawing-room tea-table she caught Westy Gaines's impressive accents,
and the screaming laughter of Blanche Carbury....

So Blanche Carbury was back at Lynbrook! The discovery gave Justine fresh cause for conjecture.
Whatever reciprocal concessions might have resulted from Amherst's return to his wife, it seemed
hardly probable that they included a renewal of relations with Mrs. Carbury. Had his mission
failed then--had he and Bessy parted in anger, and was Mrs. Carbury's presence at Lynbrook
Bessy's retort to his assertion of independence?

In the school-room, where Justine was received with the eager outpouring of Cicely's minutest
experiences, she dared not put the question that would have solved these doubts; and she left
to dress for dinner without knowing whether Amherst had returned to Lynbrook. Yet in her heart
she never questioned that he had done so; all her fears revolved about what had since taken place.

She saw Bessy first in the drawing-room, surrounded by her guests; and their brief embrace
told her nothing, except that she had never beheld her friend more brilliant, more triumphantly
in possession of recovered spirits and health.

That Amherst was absent was now made evident by Bessy's requesting Westy Gaines to lead the
way to the dining-room with Mrs. Ansell, who was one of the reassembled visitors; and the only
one, as Justine presently observed, not in key with the prevailing gaiety. Mrs. Ansell, usually
so tinged with the colours of her environment, preserved on this occasion a grey neutrality
of tone which was the only break in the general brightness. It was not in her graceful person
to express anything as gross as disapproval, yet that sentiment was manifest, to the nice observer,
in a delicate aloofness which made the waves of laughter fall back from her, and spread a circle
of cloudy calm about her end of the table. Justine had never been greatly drawn to Mrs. Ansell.
Her own adaptability was not in the least akin to the older woman's studied self-effacement;
and the independence of judgment which Justine preserved in spite of her perception of divergent
standpoints made her a little contemptuous of an excess of charity that seemed to have been
acquired at the cost of all individual convictions. To-night for the first time she felt in
Mrs. Ansell a secret sympathy with her own fears; and a sense of this tacit understanding made
her examine with sudden interest the face of her unexpected ally.... After all, what did she
know of Mrs. Ansell's history--of the hidden processes which had gradually subdued her own
passions and desires, making of her, as it were, a mere decorative background, a connecting
link between other personalities? Perhaps, for a woman alone in the world, without the power
and opportunity that money gives, there was no alternative between letting one's individuality
harden into a small dry nucleus of egoism, or diffuse itself thus in the interstices of other
lives--and there fell upon Justine the chill thought that just such a future might await her
if she missed the liberating gift of personal happiness....

       *       *       *       *       *

Neither that night nor the next day had she a private word with Bessy--and it became evident,
as the hours passed, that Mrs. Amherst was deliberately postponing the moment when they should
find themselves alone. But the Lynbrook party was to disperse on the Monday; and Bessy, who
hated early rising, and all the details of housekeeping, tapped at Justine's door late on Sunday
night to ask her to speed the departing visitors.

She pleaded this necessity as an excuse for her intrusion, and the playful haste of her manner
showed a nervous shrinking from any renewal of confidence; but as she leaned in the doorway,
fingering the diamond chain about her neck, while one satin-tipped foot emerged restlessly
from the edge of her lace gown, her face lost the bloom of animation which talk and laughter
always produced in it, and she looked so pale and weary that Justine needed no better pretext
for drawing her into the room.

It was not in Bessy to resist a soothing touch in her moments of nervous reaction. She sank
into the chair by the fire and let her head rest wearily against the cushion which Justine
slipped behind it.

Justine dropped into the low seat beside her, and laid a hand on hers. "You don't look as well
as when I went away, Bessy. Are you sure you've done wisely in beginning your house-parties
so soon?"

It always alarmed Bessy to be told that she was not looking her best, and she sat upright,
a wave of pink rising under her sensitive skin.

"I am quite well, on the contrary; but I was dying of inanition in this big empty house, and
I suppose I haven't got the boredom out of my system yet!"

Justine recognized the echo of Mrs. Carbury's manner.

"Even if you were bored," she rejoined, "the inanition was probably good for you. What does
Dr. Wyant say to your breaking away from his régime?" She named Wyant purposely, knowing that
Bessy had that respect for the medical verdict which is the last trace of reverence for authority
in the mind of the modern woman. But Mrs. Amherst laughed with gentle malice.

"Oh, I haven't seen Dr. Wyant lately. His interest in me died out the day you left."

Justine forced a laugh to hide her annoyance. She had not yet recovered from the shrinking
disgust of her last scene with Wyant.

"Don't be a goose, Bessy. If he hasn't come, it must be because you've told him not to--because
you're afraid of letting him see that you're disobeying him."

Bessy laughed again. "My dear, I'm afraid of nothing--nothing! Not even of your big eyes when
they glare at me like coals. I suppose you must have looked at poor Wyant like that to frighten
him away! And yet the last time we talked of him you seemed to like him--you even hinted that
it was because of him that Westy had no chance."

Justine uttered an impatient exclamation. "If neither of them existed it wouldn't affect the
other's chances in the least. Their only merit is that they both enhance the charms of celibacy!"

Bessy's smile dropped, and she turned a grave glance on her friend. "Ah, most men do that--you're
so clever to have found it out!"

It was Justine's turn to smile. "Oh, but I haven't--as a generalization. I mean to marry as
soon as I get the chance!"

"The chance----?"

"To meet the right man. I'm gambler enough to believe in my luck yet!"

Mrs. Amherst sighed compassionately. "There is no right man! As Blanche says, matrimony's as
uncomfortable as a ready-made shoe. How can one and the same institution fit every individual
case? And why should we all have to go lame because marriage was once invented to suit an imaginary
case?"

Justine gave a slight shrug. "You talk of walking lame--how else do we all walk? It seems to
me that life's the tight boot, and marriage the crutch that may help one to hobble along!"
She drew Bessy's hand into hers with a caressing pressure. "When you philosophize I always
know you're tired. No one who feels well stops to generalize about symptoms. If you won't let
your doctor prescribe for you, your nurse is going to carry out his orders. What you want is
quiet. Be reasonable and send away everybody before Mr. Amherst comes back!"

She dropped the last phrase carelessly, glancing away as she spoke; but the stiffening of the
fingers in her clasp sent a little tremor through her hand.

"Thanks for your advice. It would be excellent but for one thing--my husband is not coming back!"

The mockery in Bessy's voice seemed to pass into her features, hardening and contracting them
as frost shrivels a flower. Justine's face, on the contrary, was suddenly illuminated by compassion,
as though a light had struck up into it from the cold glitter of her friend's unhappiness.

"Bessy! What do you mean by not coming back?"

"I mean he's had the tact to see that we shall be more comfortable apart--without putting me
to the unpleasant necessity of telling him so."

Again the piteous echo of Blanche Carbury's phrases! The laboured mimicry of her ideas!

Justine looked anxiously at her friend. It seemed horribly false not to mention her own talk
with Amherst, yet she felt it wiser to feign ignorance, since Bessy could never be trusted
to interpret rightly any departure from the conventional.

"Please tell me what has happened," she said at length.

Bessy, with a smile, released her hand. "John has gone back to the life he prefers--which I
take to be a hint to me to do the same."

Justine hesitated again; then the pressure of truth overcame every barrier of expediency. "Bessy--I
ought to tell you that I saw Mr. Amherst in town the day I went to Philadelphia. He spoke of
going away for a time...he seemed unhappy...but he told me he was coming back to see you first--"
She broke off, her clear eyes on her friend's; and she saw at once that Bessy was too self-engrossed
to feel any surprise at her avowal. "Surely he came back?" she went on.

"Oh, yes--he came back!" Bessy sank into the cushions, watching the firelight play on her diamond
chain as she repeated the restless gesture of lifting it up and letting it slip through her
fingers.

"Well--and then?"

"Then--nothing! I was not here when he came."

"You were not here? What had happened?"

"I had gone over to Blanche Carbury's for a day or two. I was just leaving when I heard he
was coming back, and I couldn't throw her over at the last moment."

Justine tried to catch the glance that fluttered evasively under Bessy's lashes. "You knew
he was coming--and you chose that time to go to Mrs. Carbury's?"

"I didn't choose, my dear--it just happened! And it really happened for the best. I suppose
he was annoyed at my going--you know he has a ridiculous prejudice against Blanche--and so
the next morning he rushed off to his cotton mill."

There was a pause, while the diamonds continued to flow in threads of fire through Mrs. Amherst's
fingers.

At length Justine said: "Did Mr. Amherst know that you knew he was coming back before you left
for Mrs. Carbury's?"

Bessy feigned to meditate the question. "Did he know that I knew that he knew?" she mocked.
"Yes--I suppose so--he must have known." She stifled a slight yawn as she drew herself languidly
to her feet.

"Then he took that as your answer?"

"My answer----?"

"To his coming back----"

"So it appears. I told you he had shown unusual tact." Bessy stretched her softly tapering
arms above her head and then dropped them along her sides with another yawn. "But it's almost
morning--it's wicked of me to have kept you so late, when you must be up to look after all
those people!"

She flung her arms with a light gesture about Justine's shoulders, and laid a dry kiss on her
cheek.

"Don't look at me with those big eyes--they've eaten up the whole of your face! And you needn't
think I'm sorry for what I've done," she declared. "I'm not--the--least--little--atom--of a bit!"

XXIV

JUSTINE was pacing the long library at Lynbrook, between the caged sets of standard authors.

She felt as much caged as they: as much a part of a conventional stage-setting totally unrelated
to the action going on before it. Two weeks had passed since her return from Philadelphia;
and during that time she had learned that her usefulness at Lynbrook was over. Though not unwelcome,
she might almost call herself unwanted; life swept by, leaving her tethered to the stake of
inaction; a bitter lot for one who chose to measure existence by deeds instead of days. She
had found Bessy ostensibly busy with a succession of guests; no one in the house needed her
but Cicely, and even Cicely, at times, was caught up into the whirl of her mother's life, swept
off on sleighing parties and motor-trips, or carried to town for a dancing-class or an opera
matinée.

Mrs. Fenton Carbury was not among the visitors who left Lynbrook on the Monday after Justine's
return.

Mr. Carbury, with the other bread-winners of the party, had hastened back to his treadmill
in Wall Street after a Sunday spent in silently studying the files of the Financial Record;
but his wife stayed on, somewhat aggressively in possession, criticizing and rearranging the
furniture, ringing for the servants, making sudden demands on the stable, telegraphing, telephoning,
ordering fires lighted or windows opened, and leaving everywhere in her wake a trail of cigarette
ashes and cocktail glasses.

Ned Bowfort had not been included in the house-party; but on the day of its dispersal he rode
over unannounced for luncheon, put up his horse in the stable, threaded his way familiarly
among the dozing dogs in the hall, greeted Mrs. Ansell and Justine with just the right shade
of quiet deference, produced from his pocket a new puzzle-game for Cicely, and sat down beside
her mother with the quiet urbanity of the family friend who knows his privileges but is too
discreet to abuse them.

After that he came every day, sometimes riding home late to the Hunt Club, sometimes accompanying
Bessy and Mrs. Carbury to town for dinner and the theatre; but always with his deprecating
air of having dropped in by accident, and modestly hoping that his intrusion was not unwelcome.

The following Sunday brought another influx of visitors, and Bessy seemed to fling herself
with renewed enthusiasm into the cares of hospitality. She had avoided Justine since their
midnight talk, contriving to see her in Cicely's presence, or pleading haste when they found
themselves alone. The winter was unusually open, and she spent long hours in the saddle when
her time was not taken up with her visitors. For a while she took Cicely on her daily rides;
but she soon wearied of adapting her hunter's stride to the pace of the little girl's pony,
and Cicely was once more given over to the coachman's care.

Then came snow and a long frost, and Bessy grew restless at her imprisonment, and grumbled
that there was no way of keeping well in a winter climate which made regular exercise impossible.

"Why not build a squash-court?" Blanche Carbury proposed; and the two fell instantly to making
plans under the guidance of Ned Bowfort and Westy Gaines. As the scheme developed, various
advisers suggested that it was a pity not to add a bowling-alley, a swimming-tank and a gymnasium;
a fashionable architect was summoned from town, measurements were taken, sites discussed, sketches
compared, and engineers consulted as to the cost of artesian wells and the best system for
heating the tank.

Bessy seemed filled with a feverish desire to carry out the plan as quickly as possible, and
on as large a scale as even the architect's invention soared to; but it was finally decided
that, before signing the contracts, she should run over to New Jersey to see a building of
the same kind on which a sporting friend of Mrs. Carbury's had recently lavished a fortune.

It was on this errand that the two ladies, in company with Westy Gaines and Bowfort, had departed
on the day which found Justine restlessly measuring the length of the library. She and Mrs.
Ansell had the house to themselves; and it was hardly a surprise to her when, in the course
of the afternoon, Mrs. Ansell, after a discreet pause on the threshold, advanced toward her
down the long room.

Since the night of her return Justine had felt sure that Mrs. Ansell would speak; but the elder
lady was given to hawk-like circlings about her subject, to hanging over it and contemplating
it before her wings dropped for the descent.

Now, however, it was plain that she had resolved to strike; and Justine had a sense of relief
at the thought. She had been too long isolated in her anxiety, her powerlessness to help; and
she had a vague hope that Mrs. Ansell's worldly wisdom might accomplish what her inexperience
had failed to achieve.

"Shall we sit by the fire? I am glad to find you alone," Mrs. Ansell began, with the pleasant
abruptness that was one of the subtlest instruments of her indirection; and as Justine acquiesced,
she added, yielding her slight lines to the luxurious depths of an arm-chair: "I have been
rather suddenly asked by an invalid cousin to go to Europe with her next week, and I can't
go contentedly without being at peace about our friends."

She paused, but Justine made no answer. In spite of her growing sympathy for Mrs. Ansell she
could not overcome an inherent distrust, not of her methods, but of her ultimate object. What,
for instance, was her conception of being at peace about the Amhersts? Justine's own conviction
was that, as far as their final welfare was concerned, any terms were better between them than
the external harmony which had prevailed during Amherst's stay at Lynbrook.

The subtle emanation of her distrust may have been felt by Mrs. Ansell; for the latter presently
continued, with a certain nobleness: "I am the more concerned because I believe I must hold
myself, in a small degree, responsible for Bessy's marriage--" and, as Justine looked at her
in surprise, she added: "I thought she could never be happy unless her affections were satisfied--and
even now I believe so."

"I believe so too," Justine said, surprised into assent by the simplicity of Mrs. Ansell's
declaration.

"Well, then--since we are agreed in our diagnosis," the older woman went on, smiling, "what
remedy do you suggest? Or rather, how can we administer it?"

"What remedy?" Justine hesitated.

"Oh, I believe we are agreed on that too. Mr. Amherst must be brought back--but how to bring
him?" She paused, and then added, with a singular effect of appealing frankness: "I ask you,
because I believe you to be the only one of Bessy's friends who is in the least in her husband's
confidence."

Justine's embarrassment increased. Would it not be disloyal both to Bessy and Amherst to acknowledge
to a third person a fact of which Bessy herself was unaware? Yet to betray embarrassment under
Mrs. Ansell's eyes was to risk giving it a dangerous significance.

"Bessy has spoken to me once or twice--but I know very little of Mr. Amherst's point of view;
except," Justine added, after another moment's weighing of alternatives, "that I believe he
suffers most from being cut off from his work at Westmore."

"Yes--so I think; but that is a difficulty that time and expediency must adjust. All we can
do--their friends, I mean--is to get them together again before the breach is too wide."

Justine pondered. She was perhaps more ignorant of the situation than Mrs. Ansell imagined,
for since her talk with Bessy the latter had not again alluded to Amherst's absence, and Justine
could merely conjecture that he had carried out his plan of taking the management of the mill
he had spoken of. What she most wished to know was whether he had listened to her entreaty,
and taken the position temporarily, without binding himself by the acceptance of a salary;
or whether, wounded by the outrage of Bessy's flight, he had freed himself from financial dependence
by engaging himself definitely as manager.

"I really know very little of the present situation," Justine said, looking at Mrs. Ansell.
"Bessy merely told me that Mr. Amherst had taken up his old work in a cotton mill in the south."

As her eyes met Mrs. Ansell's it flashed across her that the latter did not believe what she
said, and the perception made her instantly shrink back into herself. But there was nothing
in Mrs. Ansell's tone to confirm the doubt which her look betrayed.

"Ah--I hoped you knew more," she said simply; "for, like you, I have only heard from Bessy
that her husband went away suddenly to help a friend who is reorganizing some mills in Georgia.
Of course, under the circumstances, such a temporary break is natural enough--perhaps inevitable--only
he must not stay away too long."

Justine was silent. Mrs. Ansell's momentary self-betrayal had checked all farther possibility
of frank communion, and the discerning lady had seen her error too late to remedy it.

But her hearer's heart gave a leap of joy. It was clear from what Mrs. Ansell said that Amherst
had not bound himself definitely, since he would not have done so without informing his wife.
And with a secret thrill of happiness Justine recalled his last word to her: "I will remember
all you have said."

He had kept that word and acted on it; in spite of Bessy's last assault on his pride he had
borne with her, and deferred the day of final rupture; and the sense that she had had a part
in his decision filled Justine with a glow of hope. The consciousness of Mrs. Ansell's suspicions
faded to insignificance--Mrs. Ansell and her kind might think what they chose, since all that
mattered now was that she herself should act bravely and circumspectly in her last attempt
to save her friends.

"I am not sure," Mrs. Ansell continued, gently scrutinizing her companion, "that I think it
unwise of him to have gone; but if he stays too long Bessy may listen to bad advice--advice
disastrous to her happiness." She paused, and turned her eyes meditatively toward the fire.
"As far as I know," she said, with the same air of serious candour, "you are the only person
who can tell him this."

"I?" exclaimed Justine, with a leap of colour to her pale cheeks.

Mrs. Ansell's eyes continued to avoid her. "My dear Miss Brent, Bessy has told me something
of the wise counsels you have given her. Mr. Amherst is also your friend. As I said just now,
you are the only person who might act as a link between them--surely you will not renounce
the rôle."

Justine controlled herself. "My only rôle, as you call it, has been to urge Bessy to--to try
to allow for her husband's views----"

"And have you not given the same advice to Mr. Amherst?"

The eyes of the two women met. "Yes," said Justine, after a moment.

"Then why refuse your help now? The moment is crucial."

Justine's thoughts had flown beyond the stage of resenting Mrs. Ansell's gentle pertinacity.
All her faculties were absorbed in the question as to how she could most effectually use whatever
influence she possessed.

"I put it to you as one old friend to another--will you write to Mr. Amherst to come back?"
Mrs. Ansell urged her.

Justine was past considering even the strangeness of this request, and its oblique reflection
on the kind of power ascribed to her. Through the confused beatings of her heart she merely
struggled for a clearer sense of guidance.

"No," she said slowly. "I cannot."

"You cannot? With a friend's happiness in extremity?" Mrs. Ansell paused a moment before she
added. "Unless you believe that Bessy would be happier divorced?"

"Divorced--? Oh, no," Justine shuddered.

"That is what it will come to."

"No, no! In time----"

"Time is what I am most afraid of, when Blanche Carbury disposes of it."

Justine breathed a deep sigh.

"You'll write?" Mrs. Ansell murmured, laying a soft touch on her hand.

"I have not the influence you think----"

"Can you do any harm by trying?"

"I might--" Justine faltered, losing her exact sense of the words she used.

"Ah," the other flashed back, "then you have influence! Why will you not use it?"

Justine waited a moment; then her resolve gathered itself into words. "If I have any influence,
I am not sure it would be well to use it as you suggest."

"Not to urge Mr. Amherst's return?"

"No--not now."

She caught the same veiled gleam of incredulity under Mrs. Ansell's lids--caught and disregarded
it.

"It must be now or never," Mrs. Ansell insisted.

"I can't think so," Justine held out.

"Nevertheless--will you try?"

"No--no! It might be fatal."

"To whom?"

"To both." She considered. "If he came back now I know he would not stay."

Mrs. Ansell was upon her abruptly. "You know? Then you speak with authority?"

"No--what authority? I speak as I feel," Justine faltered.

The older woman drew herself to her feet. "Ah--then you shoulder a great responsibility!" She
moved nearer to Justine, and once more laid a fugitive touch upon her. "You won't write to him?"

"No--no," the girl flung back; and the voices of the returning party in the hall made Mrs.
Ansell, with an almost imperceptible gesture of warning, turn musingly away toward the fire.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bessy came back brimming with the wonders she had seen. A glazed "sun-room," mosaic pavements,
a marble fountain to feed the marble tank--and outside a water-garden, descending in successive
terraces, to take up and utilize--one could see how practically!--the overflow from the tank.
If one did the thing at all, why not do it decently? She had given up her new motor, had let
her town house, had pinched and stinted herself in a hundred ways--if ever woman was entitled
to a little compensating pleasure, surely she was that woman!

The days were crowded with consultations. Architect, contractors, engineers, a landscape gardener,
and a dozen minor craftsmen, came and went, unrolled plans, moistened pencils, sketched, figured,
argued, persuaded, and filled Bessy with the dread of appearing, under Blanche Carbury's eyes,
subject to any restraining influences of economy. What! She was a young woman, with an independent
fortune, and she was always wavering, considering, secretly referring back to the mute criticism
of an invisible judge--of the husband who had been first to shake himself free of any mutual
subjection? The accomplished Blanche did not have to say this--she conveyed it by the raising
of painted brows, by a smile of mocking interrogation, a judiciously placed silence or a resigned
glance at the architect. So the estimates poured in, were studied, resisted--then yielded to
and signed; then the hour of advance payments struck, and an imperious appeal was despatched
to Mr. Tredegar, to whom the management of Bessy's affairs had been transferred.

Mr. Tredegar, to his client's surprise, answered the appeal in person. He had not been lately
to Lynbrook, dreading the cold and damp of the country in winter; and his sudden arrival had
therefore an ominous significance.

He came for an evening in mid-week, when even Blanche Carbury was absent, and Bessy and Justine
had the house to themselves. Mrs. Ansell had sailed the week before with her invalid cousin.
No farther words had passed between herself and Justine--but the latter was conscious that
their talk had increased instead of lessened the distance between them. Justine herself meant
to leave soon. Her hope of regaining Bessy's confidence had been deceived, and seeing herself
definitely superseded, she chafed anew at her purposeless inactivity. She had already written
to one or two doctors in New York, and to the matron of Saint Elizabeth's. She had made herself
a name in surgical cases, and it could not be long before a summons came....

Meanwhile Mr. Tredegar arrived, and the three dined together, the two women bending meekly
to his discourse, which was never more oracular and authoritative than when delivered to the
gentler sex alone. Amherst's absence, in particular, seemed to loose the thin current of Mr.
Tredegar's eloquence. He was never quite at ease in the presence of an independent mind, and
Justine often reflected that, even had the two men known nothing of each other's views, there
would have been between them an instinctive and irreducible hostility--they would have disliked
each other if they had merely jostled elbows in the street.

Yet even freed from Amherst's presence Mr. Tredegar showed a darkling brow, and as Justine
slipped away after dinner she felt that she left Bessy to something more serious than the usual
business conference.

How serious, she was to learn that very night, when, in the small hours, her friend burst in
on her tearfully. Bessy was ruined--ruined--that was what Mr. Tredegar had come to tell her!
She might have known he would not have travelled to Lynbrook for a trifle.... She had expected
to find herself cramped, restricted--to be warned that she must "manage," hateful word!...
But this! This was incredible! Unendurable! There was no money to build the gymnasium--none
at all! And all because it had been swallowed up at Westmore--because the ridiculous changes
there, the changes that nobody wanted, nobody approved of--that Truscomb and all the other
experts had opposed and derided from the first--these changes, even modified and arrested,
had already involved so much of her income, that it might be years--yes, he said years!--before
she would feel herself free again--free of her own fortune, of Cicely's fortune...of the money
poor Dick Westmore had meant his wife and child to enjoy!

Justine listened anxiously to this confused outpouring of resentments. Bessy's born incapacity
for figures made it indeed possible that the facts came on her as a surprise--that she had
quite forgotten the temporary reduction of her income, and had begun to imagine that what she
had saved in one direction was hers to spend in another. All this was conceivable. But why
had Mr. Tredegar drawn so dark a picture of the future? Or was it only that, thwarted of her
immediate desire, Bessy's disappointment blackened the farthest verge of her horizon? Justine,
though aware of her friend's lack of perspective, suspected that a conniving hand had helped
to throw the prospect out of drawing....

Could it be possible, then, that Mr. Tredegar was among those who desired a divorce? That the
influences at which Mrs. Ansell had hinted proceeded not only from Blanche Carbury and her
group? Helpless amid this rush of forebodings, Justine could do no more than soothe and restrain--to
reason would have been idle. She had never till now realized how completely she had lost ground
with Bessy.

"The humiliation--before my friends! Oh, I was warned...my father, every one...for Cicely's
sake I was warned...but I wouldn't listen--and now! From the first it was all he cared for--in
Europe, even, he was always dragging me to factories. Me?--I was only the owner of Westmore!
He wanted power--power, that's all--when he lost it he left me...oh, I'm glad now my baby is
dead! Glad there's nothing between us--nothing, nothing in the world to tie us together any
longer!"

The disproportion between this violent grief and its trivial cause would have struck Justine
as simply grotesque, had she not understood that the incident of the gymnasium, which followed
with cumulative pressure on a series of similar episodes, seemed to Bessy like the reaching
out of a retaliatory hand--a mocking reminder that she was still imprisoned in the consequences
of her unhappy marriage.

Such folly seemed past weeping for--it froze Justine's compassion into disdain, till she remembered
that the sources of our sorrow are sometimes nobler than their means of expression, and that
a baffled unappeased love was perhaps the real cause of Bessy's anger against her husband.

At any rate, the moment was a critical one, and Justine remembered with a pang that Mrs. Ansell
had foreseen such a contingency, and implored her to take measures against it. She had refused,
from a sincere dread of precipitating a definite estrangement--but had she been right in judging
the situation so logically? With a creature of Bessy's emotional uncertainties the result of
contending influences was really incalculable--it might still be that, at this juncture, Amherst's
return would bring about a reaction of better feelings....

Justine sat and mused on these things after leaving her friend exhausted upon a tearful pillow.
She felt that she had perhaps taken too large a survey of the situation--that the question
whether there could ever be happiness between this tormented pair was not one to concern those
who struggled for their welfare. Most marriages are a patch-work of jarring tastes and ill-assorted
ambitions--if here and there, for a moment, two colours blend, two textures are the same, so
much the better for the pattern! Justine, certainly, could foresee in reunion no positive happiness
for either of her friends; but she saw positive disaster for Bessy in separation from her husband....

Suddenly she rose from her chair by the falling fire, and crossed over to the writing-table.
She would write to Amherst herself--she would tell him to come. The decision once reached,
hope flowed back to her heart--the joy of action so often deceived her into immediate faith
in its results!

"Dear Mr. Amherst," she wrote, "the last time I saw you, you told me you would remember what
I said. I ask you to do so now--to remember that I urged you not to be away too long. I believe
you ought to come back now, though I know Bessy will not ask you to. I am writing without her
knowledge, but with the conviction that she needs you, though perhaps without knowing it herself...."

She paused, and laid down her pen. Why did it make her so happy to write to him? Was it merely
the sense of recovered helpfulness, or something warmer, more personal, that made it a joy
to trace his name, and to remind him of their last intimate exchange of words? Well--perhaps
it was that too. There were moments when she was so mortally lonely that any sympathetic contact
with another life sent a glow into her veins--that she was thankful to warm herself at any fire.

XXV

BESSY, languidly glancing through her midday mail some five days later, uttered a slight exclamation
as she withdrew her finger-tip from the flap of the envelope she had begun to open.

It was a black sleety day, with an east wind bowing the trees beyond the drenched window-panes,
and the two friends, after luncheon, had withdrawn to the library, where Justine sat writing
notes for Bessy, while the latter lay back in her arm-chair, in the state of dreamy listlessness
into which she always sank when not under the stimulus of amusement or exercise.

She sat suddenly upright as her eyes fell on the letter.

"I beg your pardon! I thought it was for me," she said, holding it out to Justine.

The latter reddened as she glanced at the superscription. It had not occurred to her that Amherst
would reply to her appeal: she had pictured him springing on the first north-bound train, perhaps
not even pausing to announce his return to his wife.... And to receive his letter under Bessy's
eye was undeniably embarrassing, since Justine felt the necessity of keeping her intervention
secret.

But under Bessy's eye she certainly was--it continued to rest on her curiously, speculatively,
with an under-gleam of malicious significance.

"So stupid of me--I can't imagine why I should have expected my husband to write to me!" Bessy
went on, leaning back in lazy contemplation of her other letters, but still obliquely including
Justine in her angle of vision.

The latter, after a moment's pause, broke the seal and read.

     "Millfield, Georgia.
     "My dear Miss Brent,

     "Your letter reached me yesterday and I have thought it over
     carefully. I appreciate the feeling that prompted it--but I don't
     know that any friend, however kind and discerning, can give the
     final advice in such matters. You tell me you are sure my wife will
     not ask me to return--well, under present conditions that seems to
     me a sufficient reason for staying away.

     "Meanwhile, I assure you that I have remembered all you said to me
     that day. I have made no binding arrangement here--nothing to
     involve my future action--and I have done this solely because you
     asked it. This will tell you better than words how much I value
     your advice, and what strong reasons I must have for not following
     it now.

     "I suppose there are no more exploring parties in this weather. I
     wish I could show Cicely some of the birds down here.

     "Yours faithfully,
     "John Amherst.

     "Please don't let my wife ride Impulse."

Latent under Justine's acute consciousness of what this letter meant, was the sense of Bessy's
inferences and conjectures. She could feel them actually piercing the page in her hand like
some hypersensitive visual organ to which matter offers no obstruction. Or rather, baffled
in their endeavour, they were evoking out of the unseen, heaven knew what fantastic structure
of intrigue--scrawling over the innocent page with burning evidences of perfidy and collusion....

One thing became instantly clear to her: she must show the letter to Bessy. She ran her eyes
over it again, trying to disentangle the consequences. There was the allusion to their talk
in town--well, she had told Bessy of that! But the careless reference to their woodland excursions--what
might not Bessy, in her present mood, make of it? Justine's uppermost thought was of distress
at the failure of her plan. Perhaps she might still have induced Amherst to come back, had
it not been for this accident; but now that hope was destroyed.

She raised her eyes and met Bessy's. "Will you read it?" she said, holding out the letter.

Bessy received it with lifted brows, and a protesting murmur--but as she read, Justine saw
the blood mount under her clear skin, invade the temples, the nape, even the little flower-like
ears; then it receded as suddenly, ebbing at last from the very lips, so that the smile with
which she looked up from her reading was as white as if she had been under the stress of physical
pain.

"So you have written my husband to come back?"

"As you see."

Bessy looked her straight in the eyes. "I am very much obliged to you--extremely obliged!"

Justine met the look quietly. "Which means that you resent my interference----"

"Oh, I leave you to call it that!" Bessy mocked, tossing the letter down on the table at her side.

"Bessy! Don't take it in that way. If I made a mistake I did so with the hope of helping you.
How can I stand by, after all these months together, and see you deliberately destroying your
life without trying to stop you?"

The smile withered on Bessy's lips. "It is very dear and good of you--I know you're never happy
unless you're helping people--but in this case I can only repeat what my husband says. He and
I don't often look at things in the same light--but I quite agree with him that the management
of such matters is best left to--to the persons concerned."

Justine hesitated. "I might answer that, if you take that view, it was inconsistent of you
to talk with me so openly. You've certainly made me feel that you wanted help--you've turned
to me for it. But perhaps that does not justify my writing to Mr. Amherst without your knowing it."

Bessy laughed. "Ah, my dear, you knew that if you asked me the letter would never be sent!"

"Perhaps I did," said Justine simply. "I was trying to help you against your will."

"Well, you see the result." Bessy laid a derisive touch on the letter. "Do you understand now
whose fault it is if I am alone?"

Justine faced her steadily. "There is nothing in Mr. Amherst's letter to make me change my
opinion. I still think it lies with you to bring him back."

Bessy raised a glittering face to her--all hardness and laughter. "Such modesty, my dear! As
if I had a chance of succeeding where you failed!"

She sprang up, brushing the curls from her temples with a petulant gesture. "Don't mind me
if I'm cross--but I've had a dose of preaching from Maria Ansell, and I don't know why my friends
should treat me like a puppet without any preferences of my own, and press me upon a man who
has done his best to show that he doesn't want me. As a matter of fact, he and I are luckily
agreed on that point too--and I'm afraid all the good advice in the world won't persuade us
to change our opinion!"

Justine held her ground. "If I believed that of either of you, I shouldn't have written--I
should not be pleading with you now--And Mr. Amherst doesn't believe it either," she added,
after a pause, conscious of the risk she was taking, but thinking the words might act like
a blow in the face of a person sinking under a deadly narcotic.

Bessy's smile deepened to a sneer. "I see you've talked me over thoroughly--and on his views
I ought perhaps not to have risked an opinion----"

"We have not talked you over," Justine exclaimed. "Mr. Amherst could never talk of you...in
the way you think...." And under the light staccato of Bessy's laugh she found resolution to
add: "It is not in that way that I know what he feels."

"Ah? I should be curious to hear, then----"

Justine turned to the letter, which still lay between them. "Will you read the last sentence
again? The postscript, I mean."

Bessy, after a surprised glance at her, took the letter up with the deprecating murmur of one
who acts under compulsion rather than dispute about a trifle.

"The postscript? Let me see...'Don't let my wife ride Impulse.'--Et puis?" she murmured, dropping
the page again.

"Well, does it tell you nothing? It's a cold letter--at first I thought so--the letter of a
man who believes himself deeply hurt--so deeply that he will make no advance, no sign of relenting.
That's what I thought when I first read it...but the postscript undoes it all."

Justine, as she spoke, had drawn near Bessy, laying a hand on her arm, and shedding on her
the radiance of a face all charity and sweet compassion. It was her rare gift, at such moments,
to forget her own relation to the person for whose fate she was concerned, to cast aside all
consciousness of criticism and distrust in the heart she strove to reach, as pitiful people
forget their physical timidity in the attempt to help a wounded animal.

For a moment Bessy seemed to waver. The colour flickered faintly up her cheek, her long lashes
drooped--she had the tenderest lids!--and all her face seemed melting under the beams of Justine's
ardour. But the letter was still in her hand--her eyes, in sinking, fell upon it, and she sounded
beneath her breath the fatal phrase: "'I have done this solely because you asked it.'

"After such a tribute to your influence I don't wonder you feel competent to set everybody's
affairs in order! But take my advice, my dear--don't ask me not to ride Impulse!"

The pity froze on Justine's lip: she shrank back cut to the quick. For a moment the silence
between the two women rang with the flight of arrowy, wounding thoughts; then Bessy's anger
flagged, she gave one of her embarrassed half-laughs, and turning back, laid a deprecating
touch on her friend's arm.

"I didn't mean that, Justine...but let us not talk now--I can't!"

Justine did not move: the reaction could not come as quickly in her case. But she turned on
Bessy two eyes full of pardon, full of speechless pity...and Bessy received the look silently
before she moved to the door and went out.

"Oh, poor thing--poor thing!" Justine gasped as the door closed.

She had already forgotten her own hurt--she was alone again with Bessy's sterile pain. She
stood staring before her for a moment--then her eyes fell on Amherst's letter, which had fluttered
to the floor between them. The fatal letter! If it had not come at that unlucky moment perhaps
she might still have gained her end.... She picked it up and re-read it. Yes--there were phrases
in it that a wounded suspicious heart might misconstrue.... Yet Bessy's last words had absolved
her.... Why had she not answered them? Why had she stood there dumb? The blow to her pride
had been too deep, had been dealt too unexpectedly--for one miserable moment she had thought
first of herself! Ah, that importunate, irrepressible self--the moi haïssable of the Christian--if
only one could tear it from one's breast! She had missed an opportunity--her last opportunity
perhaps! By this time, even, a hundred hostile influences, cold whispers of vanity, of selfishness,
of worldly pride, might have drawn their freezing ring about Bessy's heart....

Justine started up to follow her...then paused, recalling her last words. "Let us not talk
now--I can't!" She had no right to intrude on that bleeding privacy--if the chance had been
hers she had lost it. She dropped back into her seat at the desk, hiding her face in her hands.

Presently she heard the clock strike, and true to her tireless instinct of activity, she lifted
her head, took up her pen, and went on with the correspondence she had dropped.... It was hard
at first to collect her thoughts, or even to summon to her pen the conventional phrases that
sufficed for most of the notes. Groping for a word, she pushed aside her writing and stared
out at the sallow frozen landscape framed by the window at which she sat. The sleet had ceased,
and hollows of sunless blue showed through the driving wind-clouds. A hard sky and a hard ground--frost-bound
ringing earth under rigid ice-mailed trees.

As Justine looked out, shivering a little, she saw a woman's figure riding down the avenue
toward the gate. The figure disappeared behind a clump of evergreens--showed again farther
down, through the boughs of a skeleton beech--and revealed itself in the next open space as
Bessy--Bessy in the saddle on a day of glaring frost, when no horse could keep his footing
out of a walk!

Justine went to the window and strained her eyes for a confirming glimpse. Yes--it was Bessy!
There was no mistaking that light flexible figure, every line swaying true to the beat of the
horse's stride. But Justine remembered that Bessy had not meant to ride--had countermanded
her horse because of the bad going.... Well, she was a perfect horsewoman and had no doubt
chosen her surest-footed mount...probably the brown cob, Tony Lumpkin.

But when did Tony's sides shine so bright through the leafless branches? And when did he sweep
his rider on with such long free play of the hind-quarters? Horse and rider shot into sight
again, rounding the curve of the avenue near the gates, and in a break of sunlight Justine
saw the glitter of chestnut flanks--and remembered that Impulse was the only chestnut in the
stables....

       *       *       *       *       *

She went back to her seat and continued writing. Bessy had left a formidable heap of bills
and letters; and when this was demolished, Justine had her own correspondence to despatch.
She had heard that morning from the matron of Saint Elizabeth's: an interesting "case" was
offered her, but she must come within two days. For the first few hours she had wavered, loath
to leave Lynbrook without some definite light on her friend's future; but now Amherst's letter
had shed that light--or rather, had deepened the obscurity--and she had no pretext for lingering
on where her uselessness had been so amply demonstrated.

She wrote to the matron accepting the engagement; and the acceptance involved the writing of
other letters, the general reorganizing of that minute polity, the life of Justine Brent. She
smiled a little to think how easily she could be displaced and transplanted--how slender were
her material impedimenta, how few her invisible bonds! She was as light and detachable as a
dead leaf on the autumn breeze--yet she was in the season of sap and flower, when there is
life and song in the trees!

But she did not think long of herself, for an undefinable anxiety ran through her thoughts
like a black thread. It found expression, now and then, in the long glances she threw through
the window--in her rising to consult the clock and compare her watch with it--in a nervous
snatch of humming as she paced the room once or twice before going back to her desk....

Why was Bessy so late? Dusk was falling already--the early end of the cold slate-hued day.
But Bessy always rode late--there was always a rational answer to Justine's irrational conjectures....
It was the sight of those chestnut flanks that tormented her--she knew of Bessy's previous
struggles with the mare. But the indulging of idle apprehensions was not in her nature, and
when the tea-tray came, and with it Cicely, sparkling from a gusty walk, and coral-pink in
her cloud of crinkled hair, Justine sprang up and cast off her cares.

It cost her a pang, again, to see the lamps lit and the curtains drawn--shutting in the warmth
and brightness of the house from that wind-swept frozen twilight through which Bessy rode alone.
But the icy touch of the thought slipped from Justine's mind as she bent above the tea-tray,
gravely measuring Cicely's milk into a "grown-up" teacup, hearing the confidential details
of the child's day, and capping them with banter and fantastic narrative.

She was not sorry to go--ah, no! The house had become a prison to her, with ghosts walking
its dreary floors. But to lose Cicely would be bitter--she had not felt how bitter till the
child pressed against her in the firelight, insisting raptly, with little sharp elbows stabbing
her knee: "And then what happened, Justine?"

The door opened, and some one came in to look at the fire. Justine, through the mazes of her
fairy-tale, was dimly conscious that it was Knowles, and not one of the footmen...the proud
Knowles, who never mended the fires himself.... As he passed out again, hovering slowly down
the long room, she rose, leaving Cicely on the hearth-rug, and followed him to the door.

"Has Mrs. Amherst not come in?" she asked, not knowing why she wished to ask it out of the
child's hearing.

"No, miss. I looked in myself to see--thinking she might have come by the side-door."

"She may have gone to her sitting-room."

"She's not upstairs."

They both paused. Then Justine said: "What horse was she riding?"

"Impulse, Miss." The butler looked at his large responsible watch. "It's not late--" he said,
more to himself than to her.

"No. Has she been riding Impulse lately?"

"No, Miss. Not since that day the mare nearly had her off. I understood Mr. Amherst did not
wish it."

Justine went back to Cicely and the fairy-tale.--As she took up the thread of the Princess's
adventures, she asked herself why she had ever had any hope of helping Bessy. The seeds of
disaster were in the poor creature's soul.... Even when she appeared to be moved, lifted out
of herself, her escaping impulses were always dragged back to the magnetic centre of hard distrust
and resistance that sometimes forms the core of soft-fibred natures. As she had answered her
husband's previous appeal by her flight to the woman he disliked, so she answered this one
by riding the horse he feared.... Justine's last illusions crumbled. The distance between two
such natures was unspannable. Amherst had done well to remain away...and with a tidal rush
her sympathies swept back to his side....

       *       *       *       *       *

The governess came to claim Cicely. One of the footmen came to put another log on the fire.
Then the rite of removing the tea-table was majestically performed--the ceremonial that had
so often jarred on Amherst's nerves. As she watched it, Justine had a vague sense of the immutability
of the household routine--a queer awed feeling that, whatever happened, a machine so perfectly
adjusted would work on inexorably, like a natural law....

She rose to look out of the window, staring vainly into blackness between the parted curtains.
As she turned back, passing the writing-table, she noticed that Cicely's irruption had made
her forget to post her letters--an unusual oversight. A glance at the clock told her that she
was not too late for the mail--reminding her, at the same time, that it was scarcely three
hours since Bessy had started on her ride.... She saw the foolishness of her fears. Even in
winter, Bessy often rode for more than three hours; and now that the days were growing longer----

Suddenly reassured, Justine went out into the hall, intending to carry her batch of letters
to the red pillar-box by the door. As she did so, a cold blast struck her. Could it be that
for once the faultless routine of the house had been relaxed, that one of the servants had
left the outer door ajar? She walked over to the vestibule--yes, both doors were wide. The
night rushed in on a vicious wind. As she pushed the vestibule door shut, she heard the dogs
sniffing and whining on the threshold. She crossed the vestibule, and heard voices and the
tramping of feet in the darkness--then saw a lantern gleam. Suddenly Knowles shot out of the
night--the lantern struck on his bleached face.

Justine, stepping back, pressed the electric button in the wall, and the wide door-step was
abruptly illuminated, with its huddled, pushing, heavily-breathing group...black figures writhing
out of darkness, strange faces distorted in the glare.

"Bessy!" she cried, and sprang forward; but suddenly Wyant was before her, his hand on her
arm; and as the dreadful group struggled by into the hall, he froze her to him with a whisper:
"The spine----"

XXVI

WITHIN Justine there was a moment's darkness; then, like terror-struck workers rallying to
their tasks, every faculty was again at its post, receiving and transmitting signals, taking
observations, anticipating orders, making her brain ring with the hum of a controlled activity.

She had known the sensation before--the transmuting of terror and pity into this miraculous
lucidity of thought and action; but never had it snatched her from such depths. Oh, thank heaven
for her knowledge now--for the trained mind that could take command of her senses and bend
them firmly to its service!

Wyant seconded her well, after a moment's ague-fit of fear. She pitied and pardoned the moment,
aware of its cause, and respecting him for the way in which he rose above it into the clear
air of professional self-command. Through the first hours they worked shoulder to shoulder,
conscious of each other only as of kindred will-powers, stretched to the utmost tension of
discernment and activity, and hardly needing speech or look to further their swift co-operation.
It was thus that she had known him in the hospital, in the heat of his youthful zeal: the doctor
she liked best to work with, because no other so tempered ardour with judgment.

The great surgeon, arriving from town at midnight, confirmed his diagnosis: there was undoubted
injury to the spine. Other consultants were summoned in haste, and in the winter dawn the verdict
was pronounced--a fractured vertebra, and possibly lesion of the cord....

Justine got a moment alone when the surgeons returned to the sick-room. Other nurses were there
now, capped, aproned, quickly and silently unpacking their appliances.... She must call a halt,
clear her brain again, decide rapidly what was to be done next.... Oh, if only the crawling
hours could bring Amherst! It was strange that there was no telegram yet--no, not strange,
after all, since it was barely six in the morning, and her message had not been despatched
till seven the night before. It was not unlikely that, in that little southern settlement,
the telegraph office closed at six.

She stood in Bessy's sitting-room, her forehead pressed to the window-pane, her eyes straining
out into the thin February darkness, through which the morning star swam white. As soon as
she had yielded her place to the other nurses her nervous tension relaxed, and she hung again
above the deeps of anguish, terrified and weak. In a moment the necessity for action would
snatch her back to a firm footing--her thoughts would clear, her will affirm itself, all the
wheels of the complex machine resume their functions. But now she felt only the horror....

She knew so well what was going on in the next room. Dr. Garford, the great surgeon, who had
known her at Saint Elizabeth's, had evidently expected her to take command of the nurses he
had brought from town; but there were enough without her, and there were other cares which,
for the moment, she only could assume--the despatching of messages to the scattered family,
the incessant telephoning and telegraphing to town, the general guidance of the household swinging
rudderless in the tide of disaster. Cicely, above all, must be watched over and guarded from
alarm. The little governess, reduced to a twittering heap of fears, had been quarantined in
a distant room till reason returned to her; and the child, meanwhile, slept quietly in the
old nurse's care.

Cicely would wake presently, and Justine must go up to her with a bright face; other duties
would press thick on the heels of this; their feet were already on the threshold. But meanwhile
she could only follow in imagination what was going on in the other room....

She had often thought with dread of such a contingency. She always sympathized too much with
her patients--she knew it was the joint in her armour. Her quick-gushing pity lay too near
that professional exterior which she had managed to endue with such a bright glaze of insensibility
that some sentimental patients--without much the matter--had been known to call her "a little
hard." How, then, should she steel herself if it fell to her lot to witness a cruel accident
to some one she loved, and to have to perform a nurse's duties, steadily, expertly, unflinchingly,
while every fibre was torn with inward anguish?

She knew the horror of it now--and she knew also that her self-enforced exile from the sick-room
was a hundred times worse. To stand there, knowing, with each tick of the clock, what was being
said and done within--how the great luxurious room, with its pale draperies and scented cushions,
and the hundred pretty trifles strewing the lace toilet-table and the delicate old furniture,
was being swept bare, cleared for action like a ship's deck, drearily garnished with rows of
instruments, rolls of medicated cotton, oiled silk, bottles, bandages, water-pillows--all the
grim paraphernalia of the awful rites of pain: to know this, and to be able to call up with
torturing vividness that poor pale face on the pillows, vague-eyed, expressionless, perhaps,
as she had last seen it, or--worse yet--stirred already with the first creeping pangs of consciousness:
to have these images slowly, deliberately burn themselves into her brain, and to be aware,
at the same time, of that underlying moral disaster, of which the accident seemed the monstrous
outward symbol--ah, this was worse than anything she had ever dreamed!

She knew that the final verdict could not be pronounced till the operation which was about
to take place should reveal the extent of injury to the spine. Bessy, in falling, must have
struck on the back of her head and shoulders, and it was but too probable that the fractured
vertebra had caused a bruise if not a lesion of the spinal cord. In that case paralysis was
certain--and a slow crawling death the almost inevitable outcome. There had been cases, of
course--Justine's professional memory evoked them--cases of so-called "recovery," where actual
death was kept at bay, a semblance of life preserved for years in the poor petrified body....
But the mind shrank from such a fate for Bessy. And it might still be that the injury to the
spine was not grave--though, here again, the fracturing of the fourth vertebra was ominous.

The door opened and some one came from the inner room--Wyant, in search of an instrument-case.
Justine turned and they looked at each other.

"It will be now?"

"Yes. Dr. Garford asked if there was no one you could send for."

"No one but Mr. Tredegar and the Halford Gaineses. They'll be here this evening, I suppose."

They exchanged a discouraged glance, knowing how little difference the presence of the Halford
Gaineses would make.

"He wanted to know if there was no telegram from Amherst."

"No."

"Then they mean to begin."

A nursemaid appeared in the doorway. "Miss Cicely--" she said; and Justine bounded upstairs.

The day's work had begun. From Cicely to the governess--from the governess to the housekeeper--from
the telephone to the writing-table--Justine vibrated back and forth, quick, noiseless, self-possessed--sobering,
guiding, controlling her confused and panic-stricken world. It seemed to her that half the
day had elapsed before the telegraph office at Lynbrook opened--she was at the telephone at
the stroke of the hour. No telegram? Only one--a message from Halford Gaines--"Arrive at eight
tonight." Amherst was still silent! Was there a difference of time to be allowed for? She tried
to remember, to calculate, but her brain was too crowded with other thoughts.... She turned
away from the instrument discouraged.

Whenever she had time to think, she was overwhelmed by the weight of her solitude. Mr. Langhope
was in Egypt, accessible only through a London banker--Mrs. Ansell presumably wandering on
the continent. Her cables might not reach them for days. And among the throng of Lynbrook habitués,
she knew not to whom to turn. To loose the Telfer tribe and Mrs. Carbury upon that stricken
house--her thought revolted from it, and she was thankful to know that February had dispersed
their migratory flock to southern shores. But if only Amherst would come!

Cicely and the tranquillized governess had been despatched on a walk with the dogs, and Justine
was returning upstairs when she met one of the servants with a telegram. She tore it open with
a great throb of relief. It was her own message to Amherst--address unknown....

Had she misdirected it, then? In that first blinding moment her mind might so easily have failed
her. But no--there was the name of the town before her...Millfield, Georgia...the same name
as in his letter.... She had made no mistake, but he was gone! Gone--and without leaving an
address.... For a moment her tired mind refused to work; then she roused herself, ran down
the stairs again, and rang up the telegraph-office. The thing to do, of course, was to telegraph
to the owner of the mills--of whose very name she was ignorant!--enquiring where Amherst was,
and asking him to forward the message. Precious hours must be lost meanwhile--but, after all,
they were waiting for no one upstairs.

       *       *       *       *       *

The verdict had been pronounced: dislocation and fracture of the fourth vertebra, with consequent
injury to the spinal cord. Dr. Garford and Wyant came out alone to tell her. The surgeon ran
over the technical details, her brain instantly at attention as he developed his diagnosis
and issued his orders. She asked no questions as to the future--she knew it was impossible
to tell. But there were no immediate signs of a fatal ending: the patient had rallied well,
and the general conditions were not unfavourable.

"You have heard from Mr. Amherst?" Dr. Garford concluded.

"Not yet...he may be travelling," Justine faltered, unwilling to say that her telegram had
been returned. As she spoke there was a tap on the door, and a folded paper was handed in--a
telegram telephoned from the village.

"Amherst gone South America to study possibilities cotton growing have cabled our correspondent
Buenos Ayres."

Concealment was no longer possible. Justine handed the message to the surgeon.

"Ah--and there would be no chance of finding his address among Mrs. Amherst's papers?"

"I think not--no."

"Well--we must keep her alive, Wyant."

"Yes, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

At dusk, Justine sat in the library, waiting for Cicely to be brought to her. A lull had descended
on the house--a new order developed out of the morning's chaos. With soundless steps, with
lowered voices, the machinery of life was carried on. And Justine, caught in one of the pauses
of inaction which she had fought off since morning, was reliving, for the hundredth time, her
few moments at Bessy's bedside....

She had been summoned in the course of the afternoon, and stealing into the darkened room,
had bent over the bed while the nurses noiselessly withdrew. There lay the white face which
had been burnt into her inward vision--the motionless body, and the head stirring ceaselessly,
as though to release the agitation of the imprisoned limbs. Bessy's eyes turned to her, drawing
her down.

"Am I going to die, Justine?"

"No."

"The pain is...so awful...."

"It will pass...you will sleep...."

"Cicely----"

"She has gone for a walk. You'll see her presently."

The eyes faded, releasing Justine. She stole away, and the nurses came back.

Bessy had spoken of Cicely--but not a word of her husband! Perhaps her poor dazed mind groped
for him, or perhaps it shrank from his name.... Justine was thankful for her silence. For the
moment her heart was bitter against Amherst. Why, so soon after her appeal and his answer,
had he been false to the spirit of their agreement? This unannounced, unexplained departure
was nothing less than a breach of his tacit pledge--the pledge not to break definitely with
Lynbrook. And why had he gone to South America? She drew her aching brows together, trying
to retrace a vague memory of some allusion to the cotton-growing capabilities of the region....
Yes, he had spoken of it once in talking of the world's area of cotton production. But what
impulse had sent him off on such an exploration? Mere unrest, perhaps--the intolerable burden
of his useless life? The questions spun round and round in her head, weary, profitless, yet
persistent....

It was a relief when Cicely came--a relief to measure out the cambric tea, to make the terrier
beg for ginger-bread, even to take up the thread of the interrupted fairy-tale--though through
it all she was wrung by the thought that, just twenty-four hours earlier, she and the child
had sat in the same place, listening for the trot of Bessy's horse....

The day passed: the hands of the clocks moved, food was cooked and served, blinds were drawn
up or down, lamps lit and fires renewed...all these tokens of the passage of time took place
before her, while her real consciousness seemed to hang in some dim central void, where nothing
happened, nothing would ever happen....

And now Cicely was in bed, the last "long-distance" call was answered, the last orders to kitchen
and stable had been despatched, Wyant had stolen down to her with his hourly report--"no change"--and
she was waiting in the library for the Gaineses.

Carriage-wheels on the gravel: they were there at last. Justine started up and went into the
hall. As she passed out of the library the outer door opened, and the gusty night swooped in--as,
at the same hour the day before, it had swooped in ahead of the dreadful procession--preceding
now the carriageful of Hanaford relations: Mr. Gaines, red-glazed, brief and interrogatory;
Westy, small, nervous, ill at ease with his grief; and Mrs. Gaines, supreme in the possession
of a consolatory yet funereal manner, and sinking on Justine's breast with the solemn whisper:
"Have you sent for the clergyman?"

XXVII

THE house was empty again.

A week had passed since Bessy's accident, and friends and relations had dispersed. The household
had fallen into its routine, the routine of sickness and silence, and once more the perfectly-adjusted
machine was working on steadily, inexorably, like a natural law....

So at least it seemed to Justine's nerves, intolerably stretched, at times, on the rack of
solitude, of suspense, of forebodings. She had been thankful when the Gaineses left--doubly
thankful when a telegram from Bermuda declared Mrs. Carbury to be "in despair" at her inability
to fly to Bessy's side--thankful even that Mr. Tredegar's professional engagements made it
impossible for him to do more than come down, every second or third day, for a few hours; yet,
though in some ways it was a relief to be again in sole command, there were moments when the
weight of responsibility, and the inability to cry out her fears and her uncertainties, seemed
almost unendurable.

Wyant was her chief reliance. He had risen so gallantly above his weakness, become again so
completely the indefatigable worker of former days, that she accused herself of injustice in
ascribing to physical causes the vague eye and tremulous hand which might merely have betokened
a passing access of nervous sensibility. Now, at any rate, he had his nerves so well under
control, and had shown such a grasp of the case, and such marked executive capacity, that on
the third day after the accident Dr. Garford, withdrawing his own assistant, had left him in
control at Lynbrook.

At the same time Justine had taken up her attendance in the sick-room, replacing one of the
subordinate nurses who had been suddenly called away. She had done this the more willingly
because Bessy, who was now conscious for the greater part of the time, had asked for her once
or twice, and had seemed easier when she was in the room. But she still gave only occasional
aid, relieving the other nurses when they dined or rested, but keeping herself partly free
in order to have an eye on the household, and give a few hours daily to Cicely.

All this had become part of a system that already seemed as old as memory. She could hardly
recall what life had been before the accident--the seven dreadful days seemed as long as the
days of creation. Every morning she rose to the same report--"no change"--and every day passed
without a word from Amherst. Minor news, of course, had come: poor Mr. Langhope, at length
overtaken at Wady Halfa, was hastening back as fast as ship and rail could carry him; Mrs.
Ansell, anchored at Algiers with her invalid, cabled anxious enquiries; but still no word from
Amherst. The correspondent at Buenos Ayres had simply cabled "Not here. Will enquire"--and
since then, silence.

Justine had taken to sitting in a small room beyond Amherst's bedroom, near enough to Bessy
to be within call, yet accessible to the rest of the household. The walls were hung with old
prints, and with two or three photographs of early Italian pictures; and in a low bookcase
Amherst had put the books he had brought from Hanaford--the English poets, the Greek dramatists,
some text-books of biology and kindred subjects, and a few stray well-worn volumes: Lecky's
European Morals, Carlyle's translation of Wilhelm Meister, Seneca, Epictetus, a German grammar,
a pocket Bacon.

It was unlike any other room at Lynbrook--even through her benumbing misery, Justine felt the
relief of escaping there from the rest of the great soulless house. Sometimes she took up one
of the books and read a page or two, letting the beat of the verse lull her throbbing brain,
or the strong words of stoic wisdom sink into her heart. And even when there was no time for
these brief flights from reality, it soothed her to feel herself in the presence of great thoughts--to
know that in this room, among these books, another restless baffled mind had sought escape
from the "dusty answer" of life. Her hours there made her think less bitterly of Amherst--but
also, alas, made her see more clearly the irreconcilable difference between the two natures
she had striven to reunite. That which was the essence of life to one was a meaningless shadow
to the other; and the gulf between them was too wide for the imagination of either to bridge.

As she sat there on the seventh afternoon there was a knock on the door and Wyant entered.
She had only time to notice that he was very pale--she had been struck once or twice with his
look of sudden exhaustion, which passed as quickly as it came--then she saw that he carried
a telegram, and her mind flew back to its central anxiety. She grew pale herself as she read
the message.

"He has been found--at Corrientes. It will take him at least a month to get here."

"A month--good God!"

"And it may take Mr. Langhope longer." Their eyes met. "It's too long----?" she asked.

"I don't know--I don't know." He shivered slightly, turning away into the window.

Justine sat down to dash off messages to Mr. Tredegar and the Gaineses: Amherst's return must
be made known at once. When she glanced up, Wyant was standing near her. His air of intense
weariness had passed, and he looked calm and ready for action.

"Shall I take these down?"

"No. Ring, please. I want to ask you a few questions."

The servant who answered the bell brought in a tea-tray, and Justine, having despatched the
telegrams, seated herself and began to pour out her tea. Food had been repugnant to her during
the first anguished unsettled days, but with the resumption of the nurse's systematic habits
the nurse's punctual appetite returned. Every drop of energy must be husbanded now, and only
sleep and nourishment could fill the empty cisterns.

She held out a cup to Wyant, but he drew back with a gesture of aversion.

"Thanks; I'm not hungry."

"You ought to eat more."

"No, no. I'm very well."

She lifted her head, revived by the warm draught. The mechanical act of nourishment performed,
her mind leapt back to the prospect of Amherst's return. A whole month before he reached Lynbrook!
He had instructed her where news might find him on the way ... but a whole month to wait!

She looked at Wyant, and they read each other's thoughts.

"It's a long time," he said.

"Yes."

"But Garford can do wonders--and she's very strong."

Justine shuddered. Just so a skilled agent of the Inquisition might have spoken, calculating
how much longer the power of suffering might be artificially preserved in a body broken on
the wheel....

"How does she seem to you today?"

"The general conditions are about the same. The heart keeps up wonderfully, but there is a
little more oppression of the diaphragm."

"Yes--her breathing is harder. Last night she suffered horribly at times."

"Oh--she'll suffer," Wyant murmured. "Of course the hypodermics can be increased."

"Just what did Dr. Garford say this morning?"

"He is astonished at her strength."

"But there's no hope?--I don't know why I ask!"

"Hope?" Wyant looked at her. "You mean of what's called recovery--of deferring death indefinitely?"

She nodded.

"How can Garford tell--or any one? We all know there have been cases where such injury to the
cord has not caused death. This may be one of those cases; but the biggest man couldn't say now."

Justine hid her eyes. "What a fate!"

"Recovery? Yes. Keeping people alive in such cases is one of the refinements of cruelty that
it was left for Christianity to invent."

"And yet--?"

"And yet--it's got to be! Science herself says so--not for the patient, of course; but for
herself--for unborn generations, rather. Queer, isn't it? The two creeds are at one."

Justine murmured through her clasped hands: "I wish she were not so strong----"

"Yes; it's wonderful what those frail petted bodies can stand. The fight is going to be a hard
one."

She rose with a shiver. "I must go to Cicely----" The rector of Saint Anne's had called again.
Justine, in obedience to Mrs. Gaines's suggestion, had summoned him from Clifton the day after
the accident; but, supported by the surgeons and Wyant, she had resisted his admission to the
sick-room. Bessy's religious practices had been purely mechanical: her faith had never been
associated with the graver moments of her life, and the apparition of a clerical figure at
her bedside would portend not consolation but calamity. Since it was all-important that her
nervous strength should be sustained, and the gravity of the situation kept from her, Mrs.
Gaines yielded to the medical commands, consoled by the ready acquiescence of the rector. But
before she left she extracted a promise that he would call frequently at Lynbrook, and wait
his opportunity to say an uplifting word to Mrs. Amherst.

The Reverend Ernest Lynde, who was a young man, with more zeal than experience, deemed it his
duty to obey this injunction to the letter; but hitherto he had had to content himself with
a talk with the housekeeper, or a brief word on the doorstep from Wyant. Today, however, he
had asked somewhat insistently for Miss Brent; and Justine, who was free at the moment, felt
that she could not refuse to go down. She had seen him only in the pulpit, when once or twice,
in Bessy's absence, she had taken Cicely to church: he struck her as a grave young man, with
a fine voice but halting speech. His sermons were earnest but ineffective.

As he rose to meet her, she felt that she should like him better out of church. His glance
was clear and honest, and there was sweetness in his hesitating smile.

"I am sorry to seem persistent--but I heard you had news of Mr. Langhope, and I was anxious
to know the particulars," he explained.

Justine replied that her message had overtaken Mr. Langhope at Wady Haifa, and that he hoped
to reach Alexandria in time to catch a steamer to Brindisi at the end of the week.

"Not till then? So it will be almost three weeks--?"

"As nearly as I can calculate, a month."

The rector hesitated. "And Mr. Amherst?"

"He is coming back too."

"Ah, you have heard? I'm glad of that. He will be here soon?"

"No. He is in South America--at Buenos Ayres. There will be no steamer for some days, and he
may not get here till after Mr. Langhope."

Mr. Lynde looked at her kindly, with grave eyes that proffered help. "This is terrible for
you, Miss Brent."

"Yes," Justine answered simply.

"And Mrs. Amherst's condition----?"

"It is about the same."

"The doctors are hopeful?"

"They have not lost hope."

"She seems to keep her strength wonderfully."

"Yes, wonderfully."

Mr. Lynde paused, looking downward, and awkwardly turning his soft clerical hat in his large
kind-looking hands. "One might almost see in it a dispensation--we should see one, Miss Brent."

"We?" She glanced up apologetically, not quite sure that her tired mind had followed his meaning.

"We, I mean, who believe...that not one sparrow falls to the ground...." He flushed, and went
on in a more mundane tone: "I am glad you have the hope of Mr. Langhope's arrival to keep you
up. Modern science--thank heaven!--can do such wonders in sustaining and prolonging life that,
even if there is little chance of recovery, the faint spark may be nursed until...."

He paused again, conscious that the dusky-browed young woman, slenderly erect in her dark blue
linen and nurse's cap, was examining him with an intentness which contrasted curiously with
the absent-minded glance she had dropped on him in entering.

"In such cases," she said in a low tone, "there is practically no chance of recovery."

"So I understand."

"Even if there were, it would probably be death-in-life: complete paralysis of the lower body."

He shuddered. "A dreadful fate! She was so gay and active----"

"Yes--and the struggle with death, for the next few weeks, must involve incessant suffering...frightful
suffering...perhaps vainly...."

"I feared so," he murmured, his kind face paling.

"Then why do you thank heaven that modern science has found such wonderful ways of prolonging
life?"

He raised his head with a start and their eyes met. He saw that the nurse's face was pale and
calm--almost judicial in its composure--and his self-possession returned to him.

"As a Christian," he answered, with his slow smile, "I can hardly do otherwise."

Justine continued to consider him thoughtfully. "The men of the older generation--clergymen,
I mean," she went on in a low controlled voice, "would of course take that view--must take
it. But the conditions are so changed--so many undreamed-of means of prolonging life--prolonging
suffering--have been discovered and applied in the last few years, that I wondered...in my
profession one often wonders...."

"I understand," he rejoined sympathetically, forgetting his youth and his inexperience in the
simple desire to bring solace to a troubled mind. "I understand your feeling--but you need
have no doubt. Human life is sacred, and the fact that, even in this materialistic age, science
is continually struggling to preserve and prolong it, shows--very beautifully, I think--how
all things work together to fulfill the divine will."

"Then you believe that the divine will delights in mere pain--mere meaningless animal suffering--for
its own sake?"

"Surely not; but for the sake of the spiritual life that may be mysteriously wrung out of it."

Justine bent her puzzled brows on him. "I could understand that view of moral suffering--or
even of physical pain moderate enough to leave the mind clear, and to call forth qualities
of endurance and renunciation. But where the body has been crushed to a pulp, and the mind
is no more than a machine for the registering of sense-impressions of physical anguish, of
what use can such suffering be to its owner--or to the divine will?"

The young rector looked at her sadly, almost severely. "There, Miss Brent, we touch on inscrutable
things, and human reason must leave the answer to faith."

Justine pondered. "So that--one may say--Christianity recognizes no exceptions--?"

"None--none," its authorized exponent pronounced emphatically.

"Then Christianity and science are agreed." She rose, and the young rector, with visible reluctance,
stood up also.

"That, again, is one of the most striking evidences--" he began; and then, as the necessity
of taking leave was forced upon him, he added appealingly: "I understand your uncertainties,
your questionings, and I wish I could have made my point clearer----"

"Thank you; it is quite clear. The reasons, of course, are different; but the result is exactly
the same."

She held out her hand, smiling sadly on him, and with a sudden return of youth and self-consciousness,
he murmured shyly: "I feel for you"--the man in him yearning over her loneliness, though the
pastor dared not press his help....

XXVIII

THAT evening, when Justine took her place at the bedside, and the other two nurses had gone
down to supper, Bessy turned her head slightly, resting her eyes on her friend.

The rose-shaded lamp cast a tint of life on her face, and the dark circles of pain made her
eyes look deeper and brighter. Justine was almost deceived by the delusive semblance of vitality,
and a hope that was half anguish stirred in her. She sat down by the bed, clasping the hand
on the sheet.

"You feel better tonight?"

"I breathe...better...." The words came brokenly, between long pauses, but without the hard
agonized gasps of the previous night.

"That's a good sign." Justine paused, and then, letting her fingers glide once or twice over
the back of Bessy's hand--"You know, dear, Mr. Amherst is coming," she leaned down to say.

Bessy's eyes moved again, slowly, inscrutably. She had never asked for her husband.

"Soon?" she whispered.

"He had started on a long journey--to out-of-the-way places--to study something about cotton
growing--my message has just overtaken him," Justine explained.

Bessy lay still, her breast straining for breath. She remained so long without speaking that
Justine began to think she was falling back into the somnolent state that intervened between
her moments of complete consciousness. But at length she lifted her lids again, and her lips
stirred.

"He will be...long...coming?"

"Some days."

"How...many?"

"We can't tell yet."

Silence again. Bessy's features seemed to shrink into a kind of waxen quietude--as though her
face were seen under clear water, a long way down. And then, as she lay thus, without sound
or movement, two tears forced themselves through her lashes and rolled down her cheeks.

Justine, bending close, wiped them away. "Bessy--"

The wet lashes were raised--an anguished look met her gaze.

"I--I can't bear it...."

"What, dear?"

"The pain.... Shan't I die...before?"

"You may get well, Bessy."

Justine felt her hand quiver. "Walk again...?"

"Perhaps...not that."

"This? I can't bear it...." Her head drooped sideways, turning away toward the wall.

Justine, that night, kept her vigil with an aching heart. The news of Amherst's return had
produced no sign of happiness in his wife--- the tears had been forced from her merely by the
dread of being kept alive during the long days of pain before he came. The medical explanation
might have been that repeated crises of intense physical anguish, and the deep lassitude succeeding
them, had so overlaid all other feelings, or at least so benumbed their expression, that it
was impossible to conjecture how Bessy's little half-smothered spark of soul had really been
affected by the news. But Justine did not believe in this argument. Her experience among the
sick had convinced her, on the contrary, that the shafts of grief or joy will find a crack
in the heaviest armour of physical pain, that the tiniest gleam of hope will light up depths
of mental inanition, and somehow send a ray to the surface.... It was true that Bessy had never
known how to bear pain, and that her own sensations had always formed the centre of her universe--yet,
for that very reason, if the thought of seeing Amherst had made her happier it would have lifted,
at least momentarily, the weight of death from her body.

Justine, at first, had almost feared the contrary effect--feared that the moral depression
might show itself in a lowering of physical resistance. But the body kept up its obstinate
struggle against death, drawing strength from sources of vitality unsuspected in that frail
envelope. The surgeon's report the next day was more favourable, and every day won from death
pointed now to a faint chance of recovery.

Such at least was Wyant's view. Dr. Garford and the consulting surgeons had not yet declared
themselves; but the young doctor, strung to the highest point of watchfulness, and constantly
in attendance on the patient, was tending toward a hopeful prognosis. The growing conviction
spurred him to fresh efforts; at Dr. Garford's request, he had temporarily handed over his
Clifton practice to a young New York doctor in need of change, and having installed himself
at Lynbrook he gave up his days and nights to Mrs. Amherst's case.

"If any one can save her, Wyant will," Dr. Garford had declared to Justine, when, on the tenth
day after the accident, the surgeons held their third consultation. Dr. Garford reserved his
own judgment. He had seen cases--they had all seen cases...but just at present the signs might
point either way.... Meanwhile Wyant's confidence was an invaluable asset toward the patient's
chances of recovery. Hopefulness in the physician was almost as necessary as in the patient--contact
with such faith had been known to work miracles.

Justine listened in silence, wishing that she too could hope. But whichever way the prognosis
pointed, she felt only a dull despair. She believed no more than Dr. Garford in the chance
of recovery--that conviction seemed to her a mirage of Wyant's imagination, of his boyish ambition
to achieve the impossible--and every hopeful symptom pointed, in her mind, only to a longer
period of useless suffering.

Her hours at Bessy's side deepened her revolt against the energy spent in the fight with death.
Since Bessy had learned that her husband was returning she had never, by sign or word, reverted
to the fact. Except for a gleam of tenderness, now and then, when Cicely was brought to her,
she seemed to have sunk back into herself, as though her poor little flicker of consciousness
were wholly centred in the contemplation of its pain. It was not that her mind was clouded--only
that it was immersed, absorbed, in that dread mystery of disproportionate anguish which a capricious
fate had laid on it.... And what if she recovered, as they called it? If the flood-tide of
pain should ebb, leaving her stranded, a helpless wreck on the desert shores of inactivity?
What would life be to Bessy without movement? Thought would never set her blood flowing--motion,
in her, could only take the form of the physical processes. Her love for Amherst was dead--even
if it flickered into life again, it could but put the spark to smouldering discords and resentments;
and would her one uncontaminated sentiment--her affection for Cicely--suffice to reconcile
her to the desolate half-life which was the utmost that science could hold out?

Here again, Justine's experience answered no. She did not believe in Bessy's powers of moral
recuperation--her body seemed less near death than her spirit. Life had been poured out to
her in generous measure, and she had spilled the precious draught--the few drops remaining
in the cup could no longer renew her strength.

Pity, not condemnation--profound illimitable pity--flowed from this conclusion of Justine's.
To a compassionate heart there could be no sadder instance of the wastefulness of life than
this struggle of the small half-formed soul with a destiny too heavy for its strength. If Bessy
had had any moral hope to fight for, every pang of suffering would have been worth enduring;
but it was intolerable to witness the spectacle of her useless pain.

Incessant commerce with such thoughts made Justine, as the days passed, crave any escape from
solitude, any contact with other ideas. Even the reappearance of Westy Gaines, bringing a breath
of common-place conventional grief into the haunted silence of the house, was a respite from
her questionings. If it was hard to talk to him, to answer his enquiries, to assent to his
platitudes, it was harder, a thousand times, to go on talking to herself....

Mr. Tredegar's coming was a distinct relief. His dryness was like cautery to her wound. Mr.
Tredegar undoubtedly grieved for Bessy; but his grief struck inward, exuding only now and then,
through the fissures of his hard manner, in a touch of extra solemnity, the more laboured rounding
of a period. Yet, on the whole, it was to his feeling that Justine felt her own to be most
akin. If his stoic acceptance of the inevitable proceeded from the resolve to spare himself
pain, that at least was a form of strength, an indication of character. She had never cared
for the fluencies of invertebrate sentiment.

Now, on the evening of the day after her talk with Bessy, it was more than ever a solace to
escape from the torment of her thoughts into the rarefied air of Mr. Tredegar's presence. The
day had been a bad one for the patient, and Justine's distress had been increased by the receipt
of a cable from Mr. Langhope, announcing that, owing to delay in reaching Brindisi, he had
missed the fast steamer from Cherbourg, and would not arrive till four or five days later than
he had expected. Mr. Tredegar, in response to her report, had announced his intention of coming
down by a late train, and now he and Justine and Dr. Wyant, after dining together, were seated
before the fire in the smoking-room.

"I take it, then," Mr. Tredegar said, turning to Wyant, "that the chances of her living to
see her father are very slight."

The young doctor raised his head eagerly. "Not in my opinion, sir. Unless unforeseen complications
arise, I can almost promise to keep her alive for another month--I'm not afraid to call it
six weeks!"

"H'm--Garford doesn't say so."

"No; Dr. Garford argues from precedent."

"And you?" Mr. Tredegar's thin lips were visited by the ghost of a smile.

"Oh, I don't argue--I just feel my way," said Wyant imperturbably.

"And yet you don't hesitate to predict----"

"No, I don't, sir; because the case, as I see it, presents certain definite indications." He
began to enumerate them, cleverly avoiding the use of technicalities and trying to make his
point clear by the use of simple illustration and analogy. It sickened Justine to listen to
his passionate exposition--she had heard it so often, she believed in it so little.

Mr. Tredegar turned a probing glance on him as he ended. "Then, today even, you believe not
only in the possibility of prolonging life, but of ultimate recovery?"

Wyant hesitated. "I won't call it recovery--today. Say--life indefinitely prolonged."

"And the paralysis?"

"It might disappear--after a few months--or a few years."

"Such an outcome would be unusual?"

"Exceptional. But then there are exceptions. And I'm straining every nerve to make this one!"

"And the suffering--such as today's, for instance--is unavoidable?"

"Unhappily."

"And bound to increase?"

"Well--as the anæsthetics lose their effect...."

There was a tap on the door, and one of the nurses entered to report to Wyant. He went out
with her, and Justine was left with Mr. Tredegar.

He turned to her thoughtfully. "That young fellow seems sure of himself. You believe in him?"

Justine hesitated. "Not in his expectation of recovery--no one does."

"But you think they can keep the poor child alive till Langhope and her husband get back?"

There was a moment's pause; then Justine murmured: "It can be done...I think...."

"Yes--it's horrible," said Mr. Tredegar suddenly, as if in answer to her thought.

She looked up in surprise, and saw his eye resting on her with what seemed like a mist of sympathy
on its vitreous surface. Her lips trembled, parting as if for speech--but she looked away without
answering.

"These new devices for keeping people alive," Mr. Tredegar continued; "they increase the suffering
besides prolonging it?"

"Yes--in some cases."

"In this case?"

"I am afraid so."

The lawyer drew out his fine cambric handkerchief, and furtively wiped a slight dampness from
his forehead. "I wish to God she had been killed!" he said.

Justine lifted her head again, with an answering exclamation. "Oh, yes!"

"It's infernal--the time they can make it last."

"It's useless!" Justine broke out.

"Useless?" He turned his critical glance on her. "Well, that's beside the point--since it's
inevitable."

She wavered a moment--but his words had loosened the bonds about her heart, and she could not
check herself so suddenly. "Why inevitable?"

Mr. Tredegar looked at her in surprise, as though wondering at so unprofessional an utterance
from one who, under ordinary circumstances, showed the absolute self-control and submission
of the well-disciplined nurse.

"Human life is sacred," he said sententiously.

"Ah, that must have been decreed by some one who had never suffered!" Justine exclaimed.

Mr. Tredegar smiled compassionately: he evidently knew how to make allowances for the fact
that she was overwrought by the sight of her friend's suffering: "Society decreed it--not one
person," he corrected.

"Society--science--religion!" she murmured, as if to herself.

"Precisely. It's the universal consensus--the result of the world's accumulated experience.
Cruel in individual instances--necessary for the general welfare. Of course your training has
taught you all this; but I can understand that at such a time...."

"Yes," she said, rising wearily as Wyant came in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Her worst misery, now, was to have to discuss Bessy's condition with Wyant. To the young physician
Bessy was no longer a suffering, agonizing creature: she was a case--a beautiful case. As the
problem developed new intricacies, becoming more and more of a challenge to his faculties of
observation and inference, Justine saw the abstract scientific passion supersede his personal
feeling of pity. Though his professional skill made him exquisitely tender to the patient under
his hands, he seemed hardly conscious that she was a woman who had befriended him, and whom
he had so lately seen in the brightness of health and enjoyment. This view was normal enough--it
was, as Justine knew, the ideal state of mind for the successful physician, in whom sympathy
for the patient as an individual must often impede swift choice and unfaltering action. But
what she shrank from was his resolve to save Bessy's life--a resolve fortified to the point
of exasperation by the scepticism of the consulting surgeons, who saw in it only the youngster's
natural desire to distinguish himself by performing a feat which his elders deemed impossible.

As the days dragged on, and Bessy's sufferings increased, Justine longed for a protesting word
from Dr. Garford or one of his colleagues. In her hospital experience she had encountered cases
where the useless agonies of death were mercifully shortened by the physician; why was not
this a case for such treatment? The answer was simple enough--in the first place, it was the
duty of the surgeons to keep their patient alive till her husband and her father could reach
her; and secondly, there was that faint illusive hope of so-called recovery, in which none
of them believed, yet which they could not ignore in their treatment. The evening after Mr.
Tredegar's departure Wyant was setting this forth at great length to Justine. Bessy had had
a bad morning: the bronchial symptoms which had developed a day or two before had greatly increased
her distress, and there had been, at dawn, a moment of weakness when it seemed that some pitiful
power was about to defeat the relentless efforts of science. But Wyant had fought off the peril.
By the prompt and audacious use of stimulants--by a rapid marshalling of resources, a display
of self-reliance and authority, which Justine could not but admire as she mechanically seconded
his efforts--the spark of life had been revived, and Bessy won back for fresh suffering.

"Yes--I say it can be done: tonight I say it more than ever," Wyant exclaimed, pushing the
disordered hair from his forehead, and leaning toward Justine across the table on which their
brief evening meal had been served. "I say the way the heart has rallied proves that we've
got more strength to draw on than any of them have been willing to admit. The breathing's better
too. If we can fight off the degenerative processes--and, by George, I believe we can!" He
looked up suddenly at Justine. "With you to work with, I believe I could do anything. How you
do back a man up! You think with your hands--with every individual finger!"

Justine turned her eyes away: she felt a shudder of repulsion steal over her tired body. It
was not that she detected any note of personal admiration in his praise--he had commended her
as the surgeon might commend a fine instrument fashioned for his use. But that she should be
the instrument to serve such a purpose--that her skill, her promptness, her gift of divining
and interpreting the will she worked with, should be at the service of this implacable scientific
passion! Ah, no--she could be silent no longer....

She looked up at Wyant, and their eyes met.

"Why do you do it?" she asked.

He stared, as if thinking that she referred to some special point in his treatment. "Do what?"

"It's so useless...you all know she must die."

"I know nothing of the kind...and even the others are not so sure today." He began to go over
it all again--repeating his arguments, developing new theories, trying to force into her reluctant
mind his own faith in the possibility of success.

       *       *       *       *       *

Justine sat resting her chin on her clasped hands, her eyes gazing straight before her under
dark tormented brows. When he paused she remained silent.

"Well--don't you believe me?" he broke out with sudden asperity.

"I don't know...I can't tell...."

"But as long as there's a doubt, even--a doubt my way--and I'll show you there is, if you'll
give me time----"

"How much time?" she murmured, without shifting her gaze.

"Ah--that depends on ourselves: on you and me chiefly. That's what Garford admits. They can't
do much now--they've got to leave the game to us. It's a question of incessant vigilance...of
utilizing every hour, every moment.... Time's all I ask, and you can give it to me, if any
one can!"

Under the challenge of his tone Justine rose to her feet with a low murmur of fear. "Ah, don't
ask me!"

"Don't ask you----?"

"I can't--I can't."

Wyant stood up also, turning on her an astonished glance.

"You can't what--?"

Their eyes met, and she thought she read in his a sudden divination of her inmost thoughts.
The discovery electrified her flagging strength, restoring her to immediate clearness of brain.
She saw the gulf of self-betrayal over which she had hung, and the nearness of the peril nerved
her to a last effort of dissimulation.

"I can't...talk of it...any longer," she faltered, letting her tears flow, and turning on him
a face of pure womanly weakness.

Wyant looked at her without answering. Did he distrust even these plain physical evidences
of exhaustion, or was he merely disappointed in her, as in one whom he had believed to be above
the emotional failings of her sex?

"You're over-tired," he said coldly. "Take tonight to rest. Miss Mace can replace you for the
next few hours--and I may need you more tomorrow."

XXIX

FOUR more days had passed. Bessy seldom spoke when Justine was with her. She was wrapped in
a thickening cloud of opiates--morphia by day, bromides, sulphonal, chloral hydrate at night.
When the cloud broke and consciousness emerged, it was centred in the one acute point of bodily
anguish. Darting throes of neuralgia, agonized oppression of the breath, the diffused misery
of the whole helpless body--these were reducing their victim to a mere instrument on which
pain played its incessant deadly variations. Once or twice she turned her dull eyes on Justine,
breathing out: "I want to die," as some inevitable lifting or readjusting thrilled her body
with fresh pangs; but there were no signs of contact with the outer world--she had ceased even
to ask for Cicely....

And yet, according to the doctors, the patient held her own. Certain alarming symptoms had
diminished, and while others persisted, the strength to fight them persisted too. With such
strength to call on, what fresh agonies were reserved for the poor body when the narcotics
had lost their power?

That was the question always before Justine. She never again betrayed her fears to Wyant--she
carried out his orders with morbid precision, trembling lest any failure in efficiency should
revive his suspicions. She hardly knew what she feared his suspecting--she only had a confused
sense that they were enemies, and that she was the weaker of the two.

And then the anæsthetics began to fail. It was the sixteenth day since the accident, and the
resources of alleviation were almost exhausted. It was not sure, even now, that Bessy was going
to die--and she was certainly going to suffer a long time. Wyant seemed hardly conscious of
the increase of pain--his whole mind was fixed on the prognosis. What matter if the patient
suffered, as long as he proved his case? That, of course, was not his way of putting it. In
reality, he did all he could to allay the pain, surpassed himself in new devices and experiments.
But death confronted him implacably, claiming his due: so many hours robbed from him, so much
tribute to pay; and Wyant, setting his teeth, fought on--and Bessy paid.

       *       *       *       *       *

Justine had begun to notice that it was hard for her to get a word alone with Dr. Garford.
The other nurses were not in the way--it was Wyant who always contrived to be there. Perhaps
she was unreasonable in seeing a special intention in his presence: it was natural enough that
the two persons in charge of the case should confer together with their chief. But his persistence
annoyed her, and she was glad when, one afternoon, the surgeon asked him to telephone an important
message to town.

As soon as the door had closed, Justine said to Dr. Garford: "She is beginning to suffer terribly."

He answered with the large impersonal gesture of the man to whom physical suffering has become
a painful general fact of life, no longer divisible into individual cases. "We are doing all
we can."

"Yes." She paused, and then raised her eyes to his dry kind face. "Is there any hope?"

Another gesture--the fatalistic sweep of the lifted palms. "The next ten days will tell--the
fight is on, as Wyant says. And if any one can do it, that young fellow can. There's stuff
in him--and infernal ambition."

"Yes: but do you believe she can live--?"

Dr. Garford smiled indulgently on such unprofessional insistence; but she was past wondering
what they must all think of her.

"My dear Miss Brent," he said, "I have reached the age when one always leaves a door open to
the unexpected."

As he spoke, a slight sound at her back made her turn. Wyant was behind her--he must have entered
as she put her question. And he certainly could not have had time to descend the stairs, walk
the length of the house, ring up New York, and deliver Dr Garford's message.... The same thought
seemed to strike the surgeon. "Hello, Wyant?" he said.

"Line busy," said Wyant curtly.

       *       *       *       *       *

About this time, Justine gave up her night vigils. She could no longer face the struggle of
the dawn hour, when life ebbs lowest; and since her duties extended beyond the sick-room she
could fairly plead that she was more needed about the house by day. But Wyant protested: he
wanted her most at the difficult hour.

"You know you're taking a chance from her," he said, almost sternly.

"Oh, no----"

He looked at her searchingly. "You don't feel up to it?"

"No."

He turned away with a slight shrug; but she knew he resented her defection.

The day watches were miserable enough. It was the nineteenth day now; and Justine lay on the
sofa in Amherst's sitting-room, trying to nerve herself for the nurse's summons. A page torn
out of the calendar lay before her--she had been calculating again how many days must elapse
before Mr. Langhope could arrive. Ten days--ten days and ten nights! And the length of the
nights was double.... As for Amherst, it was impossible to set a date for his coming, for his
steamer from Buenos Ayres called at various ports on the way northward, and the length of her
stay at each was dependent on the delivery of freight, and on the dilatoriness of the South
American official.

She threw down the calendar and leaned back, pressing her hands to her temples. Oh, for a word
with Amherst--he alone would have understood what she was undergoing! Mr. Langhope's coming
would make no difference--or rather, it would only increase the difficulty of the situation.
Instinctively Justine felt that, though his heart would be wrung by the sight of Bessy's pain,
his cry would be the familiar one, the traditional one: Keep her alive! Under his surface originality,
his verbal audacities and ironies, Mr. Langhope was the creature of accepted forms, inherited
opinions: he had never really thought for himself on any of the pressing problems of life.

But Amherst was different. Close contact with many forms of wretchedness had freed him from
the bondage of accepted opinion. He looked at life through no eyes but his own; and what he
saw, he confessed to seeing. He never tried to evade the consequences of his discoveries.

Justine's remembrance flew back to their first meeting at Hanaford, when his confidence in
his own powers was still unshaken, his trust in others unimpaired. And, gradually, she began
to relive each detail of their talk at Dillon's bedside--her first impression of him, as he
walked down the ward; the first sound of his voice; her surprised sense of his authority; her
almost involuntary submission to his will.... Then her thoughts passed on to their walk home
from the hospital--she recalled his sober yet unsparing summary of the situation at Westmore,
and the note of insight with which he touched on the hardships of the workers.... Then, word
by word, their talk about Dillon came back...Amherst's indignation and pity...his shudder of
revolt at the man's doom. And then, after her conventional murmur of protest: "To save what,
when all the good of life is gone?"

To distract her thoughts she stretched her hand toward the book-case, taking out the first
volume in reach--the little copy of Bacon. She leaned back, fluttering its pages aimlessly--so
wrapped in her own misery that the meaning of the words could not reach her. It was useless
to try to read: every perception of the outer world was lost in the hum of inner activity that
made her mind like a forge throbbing with heat and noise. But suddenly her glance fell on some
pencilled sentences on the fly-leaf. They were in Amherst's hand, and the sight arrested her
as though she had heard him speak.

La vraie morale se moque de la morale....

We perish because we follow other men's examples....

Socrates used to call the opinions of the many by the name of Lamiæ--bugbears to frighten children....

A rush of air seemed to have been let into her stifled mind. Were they his own thoughts? No--her
memory recalled some confused association with great names. But at least they must represent
his beliefs--must embody deeply-felt convictions--or he would scarcely have taken the trouble
to record them.

She murmured over the last sentence once or twice: The opinions of the many--bugbears to frighten
children.... Yes, she had often heard him speak of current judgments in that way...she had
never known a mind so free from the spell of the Lamiæ.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some one knocked, and she put aside the book and rose to her feet. It was a maid bringing a
note from Wyant.

"There has been a motor accident beyond Clifton, and I have been sent for. I think I can safely
be away for two or three hours, but ring me up at Clifton if you want me. Miss Mace has instructions,
and Garford's assistant will be down at seven."

She looked at the clock: it was just three, the hour at which she was to relieve Miss Mace.
She smoothed the hair from her forehead, straightened her cap, tied on the apron she had laid
aside....

As she entered Bessy's sitting-room the nurse came out, memoranda in hand. The two moved to
the window for a moment's conference, and as the wintry light fell on Miss Mace's face, Justine
saw that it was white with fatigue.

"You're ill!" she exclaimed.

The nurse shook her head. "No--but it's awful...this afternoon...." Her glance turned to the
sick-room.

"Go and rest--I'll stay till bedtime," Justine said.

"Miss Safford's down with another headache."

"I know: it doesn't matter. I'm quite fresh."

"You do look rested!" the other exclaimed, her eyes lingering enviously on Justine's face.

She stole away, and Justine entered the room. It was true that she felt fresh--a new spring
of hope had welled up in her. She had her nerves in hand again, she had regained her steady
vision of life....

But in the room, as the nurse had said, it was awful. The time had come when the effect of
the anæsthetics must be carefully husbanded, when long intervals of pain must purchase the
diminishing moments of relief. Yet from Wyant's standpoint it was a good day--things were looking
well, as he would have phrased it. And each day now was a fresh victory.

Justine went through her task mechanically. The glow of strength and courage remained, steeling
her to bear what had broken down Miss Mace's professional fortitude. But when she sat down
by the bed Bessy's moaning began to wear on her. It was no longer the utterance of human pain,
but the monotonous whimper of an animal--the kind of sound that a compassionate hand would
instinctively crush into silence. But her hand had other duties; she must keep watch on pulse
and heart, must reinforce their action with the tremendous stimulants which Wyant was now using,
and, having revived fresh sensibility to pain, must presently try to allay it by the cautious
use of narcotics.

It was all simple enough--but suppose she should not do it? Suppose she left the stimulants
untouched? Wyant was absent, one nurse exhausted with fatigue, the other laid low by headache.
Justine had the field to herself. For three hours at least no one was likely to cross the threshold
of the sick-room.... Ah, if no more time were needed! But there was too much life in Bessy--her
youth was fighting too hard for her! She would not sink out of life in three hours...and Justine
could not count on more than that.

She looked at the little travelling-clock on the dressing-table, and saw that its hands marked
four. An hour had passed already.... She rose and administered the prescribed restorative;
then she took the pulse, and listened to the beat of the heart. Strong still--too strong!

As she lifted her head, the vague animal wailing ceased, and she heard her name: "Justine----"

She bent down eagerly. "Yes?"

No answer: the wailing had begun again. But the one word showed her that the mind still lived
in its torture-house, that the poor powerless body before her was not yet a mere bundle of
senseless reflexes, but her friend Bessy Amherst, dying, and feeling herself die....

Justine reseated herself, and the vigil began again. The second hour ebbed slowly--ah, no,
it was flying now! Her eyes were on the hands of the clock and they seemed leagued against
her to devour the precious minutes. And now she could see by certain spasmodic symptoms that
another crisis of pain was approaching--one of the struggles that Wyant, at times, had almost
seemed to court and exult in.

Bessy's eyes turned on her again. "Justine----"

She knew what that meant: it was an appeal for the hypodermic needle. The little instrument
lay at hand, beside a newly-filled bottle of morphia. But she must wait--must let the pain
grow more severe. Yet she could not turn her gaze from Bessy, and Bessy's eyes entreated her
again--Justine! There was really no word now--the whimperings were uninterrupted. But Justine
heard an inner voice, and its pleading shook her heart. She rose and filled the syringe--and
returning with it, bent above the bed....

       *       *       *       *       *

She lifted her head and looked at the clock. The second hour had passed. As she looked, she
heard a step in the sitting-room. Who could it be? Not Dr. Garford's assistant--he was not
due till seven. She listened again.... One of the nurses? No, not a woman's step----

The door opened, and Wyant came in. Justine stood by the bed without moving toward him. He
paused also, as if surprised to see her there motionless. In the intense silence she fancied
for a moment that she heard Bessy's violent agonized breathing. She tried to speak, to drown
the sound of the breathing; but her lips trembled too much, and she remained silent.

Wyant seemed to hear nothing. He stood so still that she felt she must move forward. As she
did so, she picked up from the table by the bed the memoranda that it was her duty to submit
to him.

"Well?" he said, in the familiar sick-room whisper.

"She is dead."

He fell back a step, glaring at her, white and incredulous.

"Dead?--When----?"

"A few minutes ago...."

"Dead--? It's not possible!"

He swept past her, shouldering her aside, pushing in an electric button as he sprang to the
bed. She perceived then that the room had been almost in darkness. She recovered command of
herself, and followed him. He was going through the usual rapid examination--pulse, heart,
breath--hanging over the bed like some angry animal balked of its prey. Then he lifted the
lids and bent close above the eyes.

"Take the shade off that lamp!" he commanded.

Justine obeyed him.

He stooped down again to examine the eyes...he remained stooping a long time. Suddenly he stood
up and faced her.

"Had she been in great pain?"

"Yes."

"Worse than usual?"

"Yes."

"What had you done?"

"Nothing--there was no time."

"No time?" He broke off to sweep the room again with his excited incredulous glance. "Where
are the others? Why were you here alone?" he demanded.

"It came suddenly. I was going to call----"

Their eyes met for a moment. Her face was perfectly calm--she could feel that her lips no longer
trembled. She was not in the least afraid of Wyant's scrutiny.

As he continued to look at her, his expression slowly passed from incredulous wrath to something
softer--more human--she could not tell what....

"This has been too much for you--go and send one of the others.... It's all over," he said.

BOOK IV

XXX

ON a September day, somewhat more than a year and a half after Bessy Amherst's death, her husband
and his mother sat at luncheon in the dining-room of the Westmore house at Hanaford.

The house was John Amherst's now, and shortly after the loss of his wife he had established
himself there with his mother. By a will made some six months before her death, Bessy had divided
her estate between her husband and daughter, placing Cicely's share in trust, and appointing
Mr. Langhope and Amherst as her guardians. As the latter was also her trustee, the whole management
of the estate devolved on him, while his control of the Westmore mills was ensured by his receiving
a slightly larger proportion of the stock than his step-daughter.

The will had come as a surprise, not only to Amherst himself, but to his wife's family, and
more especially to her legal adviser. Mr. Tredegar had in fact had nothing to do with the drawing
of the instrument; but as it had been drawn in due form, and by a firm of excellent standing,
he was obliged, in spite of his private views, and Mr. Langhope's open adjurations that he
should "do something," to declare that there was no pretext for questioning the validity of
the document.

To Amherst the will was something more than a proof of his wife's confidence: it came as a
reconciling word from her grave. For the date showed that it had been made at a moment when
he supposed himself to have lost all influence over her--on the morrow of the day when she
had stipulated that he should give up the management of the Westmore mills, and yield the care
of her property to Mr. Tredegar.

While she smote him with one hand, she sued for pardon with the other; and the contradiction
was so characteristic, it explained and excused in so touching a way the inconsistencies of
her impulsive heart and hesitating mind, that he was filled with that tender compunction, that
searching sense of his own shortcomings, which generous natures feel when they find they have
underrated the generosity of others. But Amherst's was not an introspective mind, and his sound
moral sense told him, when the first pang of self-reproach had subsided, that he had done his
best by his wife, and was in no way to blame if her recognition of the fact had come too late.
The self-reproach subsided; and, instead of the bitterness of the past, it left a softened
memory which made him take up his task with the sense that he was now working with Bessy and
not against her.

Yet perhaps, after all, it was chiefly the work itself which had healed old wounds, and quelled
the tendency to vain regrets. Amherst was only thirty-four; and in the prime of his energies
the task he was made for had been given back to him. To a sound nature, which finds its outlet
in fruitful action, nothing so simplifies the complexities of life, so tends to a large acceptance
of its vicissitudes and mysteries, as the sense of doing something each day toward clearing
one's own bit of the wilderness. And this was the joy at last conceded to Amherst. The mills
were virtually his; and the fact that he ruled them not only in his own right but as Cicely's
representative, made him doubly eager to justify his wife's trust in him.

Mrs. Amherst, looking up from a telegram which the parlour-maid had handed her, smiled across
the table at her son.

"From Maria Ansell--they are all coming tomorrow."

"Ah--that's good," Amherst rejoined. "I should have been sorry if Cicely had not been here."

"Mr. Langhope is coming too," his mother continued. "I'm glad of that, John."

"Yes," Amherst again assented.

The morrow was to be a great day at Westmore. The Emergency Hospital, planned in the first
months of his marriage, and abandoned in the general reduction of expenditure at the mills,
had now been completed on a larger and more elaborate scale, as a memorial to Bessy. The strict
retrenchment of all personal expenses, and the leasing of Lynbrook and the town house, had
enabled Amherst, in eighteen months, to lay by enough income to carry out this plan, which
he was impatient to see executed as a visible commemoration of his wife's generosity to Westmore.
For Amherst persisted in regarding the gift of her fortune as a gift not to himself but to
the mills: he looked on himself merely as the agent of her beneficent intentions. He was anxious
that Westmore and Hanaford should take the same view; and the opening of the Westmore Memorial
Hospital was therefore to be performed with an unwonted degree of ceremony.

"I am glad Mr. Langhope is coming," Mrs. Amherst repeated, as they rose from the table. "It
shows, dear--doesn't it?--that he's really gratified--that he appreciates your motive...."

She raised a proud glance to her tall son, whose head seemed to tower higher than ever above
her small proportions. Renewed self-confidence, and the habit of command, had in fact restored
the erectness to Amherst's shoulders and the clearness to his eyes. The cleft between the brows
was gone, and his veiled inward gaze had given place to a glance almost as outward-looking
and unspeculative as his mother's.

"It shows--well, yes--what you say!" he rejoined with a slight laugh, and a tap on her shoulder
as she passed.

He was under no illusions as to his father-in-law's attitude: he knew that Mr. Langhope would
willingly have broken the will which deprived his grand-daughter of half her inheritance, and
that his subsequent show of friendliness was merely a concession to expediency. But in his
present mood Amherst almost believed that time and closer relations might turn such sentiments
into honest liking. He was very fond of his little step-daughter, and deeply sensible of his
obligations toward her; and he hoped that, as Mr. Langhope came to recognize this, it might
bring about a better understanding between them.

His mother detained him. "You're going back to the mills at once? I wanted to consult you about
the rooms. Miss Brent had better be next to Cicely?"

"I suppose so--yes. I'll see you before I go." He nodded affectionately and passed on, his
hands full of papers, into the Oriental smoking-room, now dedicated to the unexpected uses
of an office and study.

Mrs. Amherst, as she turned away, found the parlour-maid in the act of opening the front door
to the highly-tinted and well-dressed figure of Mrs. Harry Dressel.

"I'm so delighted to hear that you're expecting Justine," began Mrs. Dressel as the two ladies
passed into the drawing-room.

"Ah, you've heard too?" Mrs. Amherst rejoined, enthroning her visitor in one of the monumental
plush armchairs beneath the threatening weight of the Bay of Naples.

"I hadn't till this moment; in fact I flew in to ask for news, and on the door-step there was
such a striking-looking young man enquiring for her, and I heard the parlour-maid say she was
arriving tomorrow."

"A young man? Some one you didn't know?" Striking apparitions of the male sex were of infrequent
occurrence at Hanaford, and Mrs. Amherst's unabated interest in the movement of life caused
her to dwell on this statement.

"Oh, no--I'm sure he was a stranger. Extremely slight and pale, with remarkable eyes. He was
so disappointed--he seemed sure of finding her."

"Well, no doubt he'll come back tomorrow.--You know we're expecting the whole party," added
Mrs. Amherst, to whom the imparting of good news was always an irresistible temptation.

Mrs. Dressel's interest deepened at once. "Really? Mr. Langhope too?"

"Yes. It's a great pleasure to my son."

"It must be! I'm so glad. I suppose in a way it will be rather sad for Mr. Langhope--seeing
everything here so unchanged----"

Mrs. Amherst straightened herself a little. "I think he will prefer to find it so," she said,
with a barely perceptible change of tone.

"Oh, I don't know. They were never very fond of this house."

There was an added note of authority in Mrs. Dressel's accent. In the last few months she had
been to Europe and had had nervous prostration, and these incontestable evidences of growing
prosperity could not always be kept out of her voice and bearing. At any rate, they justified
her in thinking that her opinion on almost any subject within the range of human experience
was a valuable addition to the sum-total of wisdom; and unabashed by the silence with which
her comment was received, she continued her critical survey of the drawing-room.

"Dear Mrs. Amherst--you know I can't help saying what I think--and I've so often wondered why
you don't do this room over. With these high ceilings you could do something lovely in Louis
Seize."

A faint pink rose to Mrs. Amherst's cheeks. "I don't think my son would ever care to make any
changes here," she said.

"Oh, I understand his feeling; but when he begins to entertain--and you know poor Bessy always
hated this furniture."

Mrs. Amherst smiled slightly. "Perhaps if he marries again--" she said, seizing at random on
a pretext for changing the subject.

Mrs. Dressel dropped the hands with which she was absent-mindedly assuring herself of the continuance
of unbroken relations between her hat and her hair.

"Marries again? Why--you don't mean--? He doesn't think of it?"

"Not in the least--I spoke figuratively," her hostess rejoined with a laugh.

"Oh, of course--I see. He really couldn't marry, could he? I mean, it would be so wrong to
Cicely--under the circumstances."

Mrs. Amherst's black eye-brows gathered in a slight frown. She had already noticed, on the
part of the Hanaford clan, a disposition to regard Amherst as imprisoned in the conditions
of his trust, and committed to the obligation of handing on unimpaired to Cicely the fortune
his wife's caprice had bestowed on him; and this open expression of the family view was singularly
displeasing to her.

"I had not thought of it in that light--but it's really of no consequence how one looks at
a thing that is not going to happen," she said carelessly.

"No--naturally; I see you were only joking. He's so devoted to Cicely, isn't he?" Mrs. Dressel
rejoined, with her bright obtuseness.

A step on the threshold announced Amherst's approach.

"I'm afraid I must be off, mother--" he began, halting in the doorway with the instinctive
masculine recoil from the afternoon caller.

"Oh, Mr. Amherst, how d'you do? I suppose you're very busy about tomorrow? I just flew in to
find out if Justine was really coming," Mrs. Dressel explained, a little fluttered by the effort
of recalling what she had been saying when he entered.

"I believe my mother expects the whole party," Amherst replied, shaking hands with the false
bonhomie of the man entrapped.

"How delightful! And it's so nice to think that Mr. Langhope's arrangement with Justine still
works so well," Mrs. Dressel hastened on, nervously hoping that her volubility would smother
any recollection of what he had chanced to overhear.

"Mr. Langhope is lucky in having persuaded Miss Brent to take charge of Cicely," Mrs. Amherst
quietly interposed.

"Yes--and it was so lucky for Justine too! When she came back from Europe with us last autumn,
I could see she simply hated the idea of taking up her nursing again."

Amherst's face darkened at the allusion, and his mother said hurriedly: "Ah, she was tired,
poor child; but I'm only afraid that, after the summer's rest, she may want some more active
occupation than looking after a little girl."

"Oh, I think not--she's so fond of Cicely. And of course it's everything to her to have a comfortable
home."

Mrs. Amherst smiled. "At her age, it's not always everything."

Mrs. Dressel stared slightly. "Oh, Justine's twenty-seven, you know; she's not likely to marry
now," she said, with the mild finality of the early-wedded.

She rose as she spoke, extending cordial hands of farewell. "You must be so busy preparing
for the great day...if only it doesn't rain!... No, please, Mr. Amherst!... It's a mere step--I'm
walking...."

       *       *       *       *       *

That afternoon, as Amherst walked out toward Westmore for a survey of the final preparations,
he found that, among the pleasant thoughts accompanying him, one of the pleasantest was the
anticipation of seeing Justine Brent.

Among the little group who were to surround him on the morrow, she was the only one discerning
enough to understand what the day meant to him, or with sufficient knowledge to judge of the
use he had made of his great opportunity. Even now that the opportunity had come, and all obstacles
were levelled, sympathy with his work was as much lacking as ever; and only Duplain, at length
reinstated as manager, really understood and shared in his aims. But Justine Brent's sympathy
was of a different kind from the manager's. If less logical, it was warmer, more penetrating--like
some fine imponderable fluid, so subtle that it could always find a way through the clumsy
processes of human intercourse. Amherst had thought very often of this quality in her during
the weeks which followed his abrupt departure for Georgia; and in trying to define it he had
said to himself that she felt with her brain.

And now, aside from the instinctive understanding between them, she was set apart in his thoughts
by her association with his wife's last days. On his arrival from the south he had gathered
on all sides evidences of her tender devotion to Bessy: even Mr. Tredegar's chary praise swelled
the general commendation. From the surgeons he heard how her unwearied skill had helped them
in their fruitless efforts; poor Cicely, awed by her loss, clung to her mother's friend with
childish tenacity; and the young rector of Saint Anne's, shyly acquitting himself of his visit
of condolence, dwelt chiefly on the consolatory thought of Miss Brent's presence at the death-bed.

The knowledge that Justine had been with his wife till the end had, in fact, done more than
anything else to soften Amherst's regrets; and he had tried to express something of this in
the course of his first talk with her. Justine had given him a clear and self-possessed report
of the dreadful weeks at Lynbrook; but at his first allusion to her own part in them, she shrank
into a state of distress which seemed to plead with him to refrain from even the tenderest
touch on her feelings. It was a peculiarity of their friendship that silence and absence had
always mysteriously fostered its growth; and he now felt that her reticence deepened the understanding
between them as the freest confidences might not have done.

Soon afterward, an opportune attack of nervous prostration had sent Mrs. Harry Dressel abroad;
and Justine was selected as her companion. They remained in Europe for six months; and on their
return Amherst learned with pleasure that Mr. Langhope had asked Miss Brent to take charge
of Cicely.

Mr. Langhope's sorrow for his daughter had been aggravated by futile wrath at her unaccountable
will; and the mixed sentiment thus engendered had found expression in a jealous outpouring
of affection toward Cicely. He took immediate possession of the child, and in the first stages
of his affliction her companionship had been really consoling. But as time passed, and the
pleasant habits of years reasserted themselves, her presence became, in small unacknowledged
ways, a source of domestic irritation. Nursery hours disturbed the easy routine of his household;
the elderly parlour-maid who had long ruled it resented the intervention of Cicely's nurse;
the little governess, involved in the dispute, broke down and had to be shipped home to Germany;
a successor was hard to find, and in the interval Mr. Langhope's privacy was invaded by a stream
of visiting teachers, who were always wanting to consult him about Cicely's lessons, and lay
before him their tiresome complaints and perplexities. Poor Mr. Langhope found himself in the
position of the mourner who, in the first fervour of bereavement, has undertaken the construction
of an imposing monument without having counted the cost. He had meant that his devotion to
Cicely should be a monument to his paternal grief; but the foundations were scarcely laid when
he found that the funds of time and patience were almost exhausted.

Pride forbade his consigning Cicely to her step-father, though Mrs. Amherst would gladly have
undertaken her care; Mrs. Ansell's migratory habits made it impossible for her to do more than
intermittently hover and advise; and a new hope rose before Mr. Langhope when it occurred to
him to appeal to Miss Brent.

The experiment had proved a success, and when Amherst met Justine again she had been for some
months in charge of the little girl, and change and congenial occupation had restored her to
a normal view of life. There was no trace in her now of the dumb misery which had haunted him
at their parting; she was again the vivid creature who seemed more charged with life than any
one he had ever known. The crisis through which she had passed showed itself only in a smoothing
of the brow and deepening of the eyes, as though a bloom of experience had veiled without deadening
the first brilliancy of youth.

As he lingered on the image thus evoked, he recalled Mrs. Dressel's words: "Justine is twenty-seven--she's
not likely to marry now."

Oddly enough, he had never thought of her marrying--but now that he heard the possibility questioned,
he felt a disagreeable conviction of its inevitableness. Mrs. Dressel's view was of course
absurd. In spite of Justine's feminine graces, he had formerly felt in her a kind of elfin
immaturity, as of a flitting Ariel with untouched heart and senses: it was only of late that
she had developed the subtle quality which calls up thoughts of love. Not marry? Why, the vagrant
fire had just lighted on her--and the fact that she was poor and unattached, with her own way
to make, and no setting of pleasure and elegance to embellish her--these disadvantages seemed
as nothing to Amherst against the warmth of personality in which she moved. And besides, she
would never be drawn to the kind of man who needed fine clothes and luxury to point him to
the charm of sex. She was always finished and graceful in appearance, with the pretty woman's
art of wearing her few plain dresses as if they were many and varied; yet no one could think
of her as attaching much importance to the upholstery of life.... No, the man who won her would
be of a different type, have other inducements to offer...and Amherst found himself wondering
just what those inducements would be.

Suddenly he remembered something his mother had said as he left the house--something about
a distinguished-looking young man who had called to ask for Miss Brent. Mrs. Amherst, innocently
inquisitive in small matters, had followed her son into the hall to ask the parlour-maid if
the gentleman had left his name; and the parlour-maid had answered in the negative. The young
man was evidently not indigenous: all the social units of Hanaford were intimately known to
each other. He was a stranger, therefore, presumably drawn there by the hope of seeing Miss
Brent. But if he knew that she was coming he must be intimately acquainted with her movements....
The thought came to Amherst as an unpleasant surprise. It showed him for the first time how
little he knew of Justine's personal life, of the ties she might have formed outside the Lynbrook
circle. After all, he had seen her chiefly not among her own friends but among his wife's.
Was it reasonable to suppose that a creature of her keen individuality would be content to
subsist on the fringe of other existences? Somewhere, of course, she must have a centre of
her own, must be subject to influences of which he was wholly ignorant. And since her departure
from Lynbrook he had known even less of her life. She had spent the previous winter with Mr.
Langhope in New York, where Amherst had seen her only on his rare visits to Cicely; and Mr.
Langhope, on going abroad for the summer, had established his grand-daughter in a Bar Harbour
cottage, where, save for two flying visits from Mrs. Ansell, Miss Brent had reigned alone till
his return in September.

Very likely, Amherst reflected, the mysterious visitor was a Bar Harbour acquaintance--no,
more than an acquaintance: a friend. And as Mr. Langhope's party had left Mount Desert but
three days previously, the arrival of the unknown at Hanaford showed a singular impatience
to rejoin Miss Brent.

As he reached this point in his meditations, Amherst found himself at the street-corner where
it was his habit to pick up the Westmore trolley. Just as it bore down on him, and he sprang
to the platform, another car, coming in from the mills, stopped to discharge its passengers.
Among them Amherst noticed a slender undersized man in shabby clothes, about whose retreating
back, as he crossed the street to signal a Station Avenue car, there was something dimly familiar,
and suggestive of troubled memories. Amherst leaned out and looked again: yes, the back was
certainly like Dr. Wyant's--but what could Wyant be doing at Hanaford, and in a Westmore car?

Amherst's first impulse was to spring out and overtake him. He knew how admirably the young
physician had borne himself at Lynbrook; he even recalled Dr. Garford's saying, with his kindly
sceptical smile: "Poor Wyant believed to the end that we could save her"--and felt again his
own inward movement of thankfulness that the cruel miracle had not been worked.

He owed a great deal to Wyant, and had tried to express his sense of the fact by warm words
and a liberal fee; but since Bessy's death he had never returned to Lynbrook, and had consequently
lost sight of the young doctor.

Now he felt that he ought to try to rejoin him, to find out why he was at Hanaford, and make
some proffer of hospitality; but if the stranger were really Wyant, his choice of the Station
Avenue car made it appear that he was on his way to catch the New York express; and in any
case Amherst's engagements at Westmore made immediate pursuit impossible.

He consoled himself with the thought that if the physician was not leaving Hanaford he would
be certain to call at the house; and then his mind flew back to Justine Brent. But the pleasure
of looking forward to her arrival was disturbed by new feelings. A sense of reserve and embarrassment
had sprung up in his mind, checking that free mental communion which, as he now perceived,
had been one of the unconscious promoters of their friendship. It was as though his thoughts
faced a stranger instead of the familiar presence which had so long dwelt in them; and he began
to see that the feeling of intelligence existing between Justine and himself was not the result
of actual intimacy, but merely of the charm she knew how to throw over casual intercourse.

When he had left his house, his mind was like a summer sky, all open blue and sunlit rolling
clouds; but gradually the clouds had darkened and massed themselves, till they drew an impenetrable
veil over the upper light and stretched threateningly across his whole horizon.

XXXI

THE celebrations at Westmore were over. Hanaford society, mustering for the event, had streamed
through the hospital, inspected the clinic, complimented Amherst, recalled itself to Mr. Langhope
and Mrs. Ansell, and streamed out again to regain its carriages and motors.

The chief actors in the ceremony were also taking leave. Mr. Langhope, somewhat pale and nervous
after the ordeal, had been helped into the Gaines landau with Mrs. Ansell and Cicely; Mrs.
Amherst had accepted a seat in the Dressel victoria; and Westy Gaines, with an empressement
slightly tinged by condescension, was in the act of placing his electric phaeton at Miss Brent's
disposal.

She stood in the pretty white porch of the hospital, looking out across its squares of flower-edged
turf at the long street of Westmore. In the warm gold-powdered light of September the factory
town still seemed a blot on the face of nature; yet here and there, on all sides, Justine's
eye saw signs of humanizing change. The rough banks along the street had been levelled and
sodded; young maples, set in rows, already made a long festoon of gold against the dingy house-fronts;
and the houses themselves--once so irreclaimably outlawed and degraded--showed, in their white-curtained
windows, their flowery white-railed yards, a growing approach to civilized human dwellings.

Glancing the other way, one still met the grim pile of factories cutting the sky with their
harsh roof-lines and blackened chimneys; but here also were signs of improvement. One of the
mills had already been enlarged, another was scaffolded for the same purpose, and young trees
and neatly-fenced turf replaced the surrounding desert of trampled earth.

As Amherst came out of the hospital, he heard Miss Brent declining a seat in Westy's phaeton.

"Thank you so much; but there's some one here I want to see first--one of the operatives--and
I can easily take a Hanaford car." She held out her hand with the smile that ran like colour
over her whole face; and Westy, nettled by this unaccountable disregard of her privileges,
mounted his chariot alone.

As he glided mournfully away, Amherst turned to Justine. "You wanted to see the Dillons?" he asked.

Their eyes met, and she smiled again. He had never seen her so sunned-over, so luminous, since
the distant November day when they had picnicked with Cicely beside the swamp. He wondered
vaguely if she were more elaborately dressed than usual, or if the festal impression she produced
were simply a reflection of her mood.

"I do want to see the Dillons--how did you guess?" she rejoined; and Amherst felt a sudden
impulse to reply: "For the same reason that made you think of them."

The fact of her remembering the Dillons made him absurdly happy; it re-established between
them the mental communion that had been checked by his thoughts of the previous day.

"I suppose I'm rather self-conscious about the Dillons, because they're one of my object lessons--they
illustrate the text," he said laughing, as they went down the steps.

Westmore had been given a half-holiday for the opening of the hospital, and as Amherst and
Justine turned into the street, parties of workers were dispersing toward their houses. They
were still a dull-eyed stunted throng, to whom air and movement seemed to have been too long
denied; but there was more animation in the groups, more light in individual faces; many of
the younger men returned Amherst's good-day with a look of friendliness, and the women to whom
he spoke met him with a volubility that showed the habit of frequent intercourse.

"How much you have done!" Justine exclaimed, as he rejoined her after one of these asides;
but the next moment he saw a shade of embarrassment cross her face, as though she feared to
have suggested comparisons she had meant to avoid.

He answered quite naturally: "Yes--I'm beginning to see my way now; and it's wonderful how
they respond--" and they walked on without a shadow of constraint between them, while he described
to her what was already done, and what direction his projected experiments were taking.

The Dillons had been placed in charge of one of the old factory tenements, now transformed
into a lodging-house for unmarried operatives. Even its harsh brick exterior, hung with creepers
and brightened by flower-borders, had taken on a friendly air; and indoors it had a clean sunny
kitchen, a big dining-room with cheerful-coloured walls, and a room where the men could lounge
and smoke about a table covered with papers.

The creation of these model lodging-houses had always been a favourite scheme of Amherst's,
and the Dillons, incapacitated for factory work, had shown themselves admirably adapted to
their new duties. In Mrs. Dillon's small hot sitting-room, among the starched sofa-tidies and
pink shells that testified to the family prosperity, Justine shone with enjoyment and sympathy.
She had always taken an interest in the lives and thoughts of working-people: not so much the
constructive interest of the sociological mind as the vivid imaginative concern of a heart
open to every human appeal. She liked to hear about their hard struggles and small pathetic
successes: the children's sicknesses, the father's lucky job, the little sum they had been
able to put by, the plans they had formed for Tommy's advancement, and how Sue's good marks
at school were still ahead of Mrs. Hagan's Mary's.

"What I really like is to gossip with them, and give them advice about the baby's cough, and
the cheapest way to do their marketing," she said laughing, as she and Amherst emerged once
more into the street. "It's the same kind of interest I used to feel in my dolls and guinea
pigs--a managing, interfering old maid's interest. I don't believe I should care a straw for
them if I couldn't dose them and order them about."

Amherst laughed too: he recalled the time when he had dreamed that just such warm personal
sympathy was her sex's destined contribution to the broad work of human beneficence. Well,
it had not been a dream: here was a woman whose deeds spoke for her. And suddenly the thought
came to him: what might they not do at Westmore together! The brightness of it was blinding--like
the dazzle of sunlight which faced them as they walked toward the mills. But it left him speechless,
confused--glad to have a pretext for routing Duplain out of the office, introducing him to
Miss Brent, and asking him for the keys of the buildings....

It was wonderful, again, how she grasped what he was doing in the mills, and saw how his whole
scheme hung together, harmonizing the work and leisure of the operatives, instead of treating
them as half machine, half man, and neglecting the man for the machine. Nor was she content
with Utopian generalities: she wanted to know the how and why of each case, to hear what conclusions
he drew from his results, to what solutions his experiments pointed.

In explaining the mill work he forgot his constraint and returned to the free comradery of
mind that had always marked their relation. He turned the key reluctantly in the last door,
and paused a moment on the threshold.

"Anything more?" he said, with a laugh meant to hide his desire to prolong their tour.

She glanced up at the sun, which still swung free of the tall factory roofs.

"As much as you've time for. Cicely doesn't need me this afternoon, and I can't tell when I
shall see Westmore again."

Her words fell on him with a chill. His smile faded, and he looked away for a moment.

"But I hope Cicely will be here often," he said.

"Oh, I hope so too," she rejoined, with seeming unconsciousness of any connection between the
wish and her previous words.

Amherst hesitated. He had meant to propose a visit to the old Eldorado building, which now
at last housed the long-desired night-schools and nursery; but since she had spoken he felt
a sudden indifference to showing her anything more. What was the use, if she meant to leave
Cicely, and drift out of his reach? He could get on well enough without sympathy and comprehension,
but his momentary indulgence in them made the ordinary taste of life a little flat.

"There must be more to see?" she continued, as they turned back toward the village; and he
answered absently: "Oh, yes--if you like."

He heard the change in his own voice, and knew by her quick side-glance that she had heard it too.

"Please let me see everything that is compatible with my getting a car to Hanaford by six."

"Well, then--the night-school next," he said with an effort at lightness; and to shake off
the importunity of his own thoughts he added carelessly, as they walked on: "By the way--it
seems improbable--but I think I saw Dr. Wyant yesterday in a Westmore car."

She echoed the name in surprise. "Dr. Wyant? Really! Are you sure?"

"Not quite; but if it wasn't he it was his ghost. You haven't heard of his being at Hanaford?"

"No. I've heard nothing of him for ages."

Something in her tone made him return her side-glance; but her voice, on closer analysis, denoted
only indifference, and her profile seemed to express the same negative sentiment. He remembered
a vague Lynbrook rumour to the effect that the young doctor had been attracted to Miss Brent.
Such floating seeds of gossip seldom rooted themselves in his mind, but now the fact acquired
a new significance, and he wondered how he could have thought so little of it at the time.
Probably her somewhat exaggerated air of indifference simply meant that she had been bored
by Wyant's attentions, and that the reminder of them still roused a slight self-consciousness.

Amherst was relieved by this conclusion, and murmuring: "Oh, I suppose it can't have been he,"
led her rapidly on to the Eldorado. But the old sense of free communion was again obstructed,
and her interest in the details of the schools and nursery now seemed to him only a part of
her wonderful art of absorbing herself in other people's affairs. He was a fool to have been
duped by it--to have fancied it was anything more personal than a grace of manner.

As she turned away from inspecting the blackboards in one of the empty school-rooms he paused
before her and said suddenly: "You spoke of not seeing Westmore again. Are you thinking of
leaving Cicely?"

The words were almost the opposite of those he had intended to speak; it was as if some irrepressible
inner conviction flung defiance at his surface distrust of her.

She stood still also, and he saw a thought move across her face. "Not immediately--but perhaps
when Mr. Langhope can make some other arrangement----"

Owing to the half-holiday they had the school-building to themselves, and the fact of being
alone with her, without fear of interruption, woke in Amherst an uncontrollable longing to
taste for once the joy of unguarded utterance.

"Why do you go?" he asked, moving close to the platform on which she stood.

She hesitated, resting her hand on the teacher's desk. Her eyes were kind, but he thought her
tone was cold.

"This easy life is rather out of my line," she said at length, with a smile that draped her
words in vagueness.

Amherst looked at her again--she seemed to be growing remote and inaccessible. "You mean that
you don't want to stay?"

His tone was so abrupt that it called forth one of her rare blushes. "No--not that. I have
been very happy with Cicely--but soon I shall have to be doing something else."

Why was she blushing? And what did her last phrase mean? "Something else--?" The blood hummed
in his ears--he began to hope she would not answer too quickly.

She had sunk into the seat behind the desk, propping her elbows on its lid, and letting her
interlaced hands support her chin. A little bunch of violets which had been thrust into the
folds of her dress detached itself and fell to the floor.

"What I mean is," she said in a low voice, raising her eyes to Amherst's, "that I've had a
great desire lately to get back to real work--my special work.... I've been too idle for the
last year--I want to do some hard nursing; I want to help people who are miserable."

She spoke earnestly, almost passionately, and as he listened his undefined fear was lifted.
He had never before seen her in this mood, with brooding brows, and the darkness of the world's
pain in her eyes. All her glow had faded--she was a dun thrush-like creature, clothed in semi-tints;
yet she seemed much nearer than when her smile shot light on him.

He stood motionless, his eyes absently fixed on the bunch of violets at her feet. Suddenly
he raised his head, and broke out with a boyish blush: "Could it have been Wyant who was trying
to see you?"

"Dr. Wyant--trying to see me?" She lowered her hands to the desk, and sat looking at him with
open wonder.

He saw the irrelevance of his question, and burst, in spite of himself, into youthful laughter.

"I mean--It's only that an unknown visitor called at the house yesterday, and insisted that
you must have arrived. He seemed so annoyed at not finding you, that I thought...I imagined...it
must be some one who knew you very well...and who had followed you here...for some special
reason...."

Her colour rose again, as if caught from his; but her eyes still declared her ignorance. "Some
special reason----?"

"And just now," he blurted out, "when you said you might not stay much longer with Cicely--I
thought of the visit--and wondered if there was some one you meant to marry...."

A silence fell between them. Justine rose slowly, her eyes screened under the veil she had
lowered. "No--I don't mean to marry," she said, half-smiling, as she came down from the platform.

Restored to his level, her small shadowy head just in a line with his eyes, she seemed closer,
more approachable and feminine--yet Amherst did not dare to speak.

She took a few steps toward the window, looking out into the deserted street. "It's growing
dark--I must go home," she said.

"Yes," he assented absently as he followed her. He had no idea what she was saying. The inner
voices in which they habitually spoke were growing louder than outward words. Or was it only
the voice of his own desires that he heard--the cry of new hopes and unguessed capacities of
living? All within him was flood-tide: this was the top of life, surely--to feel her alike
in his brain and his pulses, to steep sight and hearing in the joy of her nearness, while all
the while thought spoke clear: "This is the mate of my mind."

He began again abruptly. "Wouldn't you marry, if it gave you the chance to do what you say--if
it offered you hard work, and the opportunity to make things better...for a great many people...as
no one but yourself could do it?"

It was a strange way of putting his case: he was aware of it before he ended. But it had not
occurred to him to tell her that she was lovely and desirable--in his humility he thought that
what he had to give would plead for him better than what he was.

The effect produced on her by his question, though undecipherable, was extraordinary. She stiffened
a little, remaining quite motionless, her eyes on the street.

"You!" she just breathed; and he saw that she was beginning to tremble.

His wooing had been harsh and clumsy--he was afraid it had offended her, and his hand trembled
too as it sought hers.

"I only thought--it would be a dull business to most women--and I'm tied to it for life...but
I thought...I've seen so often how you pity suffering...how you long to relieve it...."

She turned away from him with a shuddering sigh. "Oh, I hate suffering!" she broke out, raising
her hands to her face.

Amherst was frightened. How senseless of him to go on reiterating the old plea! He ought to
have pleaded for himself--to have let the man in him seek her and take his defeat, instead
of beating about the flimsy bush of philanthropy.

"I only meant--I was trying to make my work recommend me..." he said with a half-laugh, as
she remained silent, her eyes still turned away.

The silence continued for a long time--it stretched between them like a narrowing interminable
road, down which, with a leaden heart, he seemed to watch her gradually disappearing. And then,
unexpectedly, as she shrank to a tiny speck at the dip of the road, the perspective was mysteriously
reversed, and he felt her growing nearer again, felt her close to him--felt her hand in his.

"I'm really just like other women, you know--I shall like it because it's your work," she said.

XXXII

EVERY one agreed that, on the whole, Mr. Langhope had behaved extremely well.

He was just beginning to regain his equanimity in the matter of the will--to perceive that,
in the eyes of the public, something important and distinguished was being done at Westmore,
and that the venture, while reducing Cicely's income during her minority, might, in some incredible
way, actually make for its ultimate increase. So much Mr. Langhope, always eager to take the
easiest view of the inevitable, had begun to let fall in his confidential comments on Amherst;
when his newly-regained balance was rudely shaken by the news of his son-in-law's marriage.

The free expression of his anger was baffled by the fact that, even by the farthest stretch
of self-extenuating logic, he could find no one to blame for the event but himself.

"Why on earth don't you say so--don't you call me a triple-dyed fool for bringing them together?"
he challenged Mrs. Ansell, as they had the matter out together in the small intimate drawing-room
of her New York apartment.

Mrs. Ansell, stirring her tea with a pensive hand, met the challenge composedly.

"At present you're doing it for me," she reminded him; "and after all, I'm not so disposed
to agree with you."

"Not agree with me? But you told me not to engage Miss Brent! Didn't you tell me not to engage
her?"

She made a hesitating motion of assent.

"But, good Lord, how was I to help myself? No man was ever in such a quandary!" he broke off,
leaping back to the other side of the argument.

"No," she said, looking up at him suddenly. "I believe that, for the only time in your life,
you were sorry then that you hadn't married me."

She held his eyes for a moment with a look of gentle malice; then he laughed, and drew forth
his cigarette-case.

"Oh, come--you've inverted the formula," he said, reaching out for the enamelled match-box
at his elbow. She let the pleasantry pass with a slight smile, and he went on reverting to
his grievance: "Why didn't you want me to engage Miss Brent?"

"Oh, I don't know...some instinct."

"You won't tell me?"

"I couldn't if I tried; and now, after all----"

"After all--what?"

She reflected. "You'll have Cicely off your mind, I mean."

"Cicely off my mind?" Mr. Langhope was beginning to find his charming friend less consolatory
than usual. After all, the most magnanimous woman has her circuitous way of saying I told you
so. "As if any good governess couldn't have done that for me!" he grumbled.

"Ah--the present care for her. But I was looking ahead," she rejoined.

"To what--if I may ask?"

"The next few years--when Mrs. Amherst may have children of her own."

"Children of her own?" He bounded up, furious at the suggestion.

"Had it never occurred to you?"

"Hardly as a source of consolation!"

"I think a philosophic mind might find it so."

"I should really be interested to know how!"

Mrs. Ansell put down her cup, and again turned her gentle tolerant eyes upon him.

"Mr. Amherst, as a father, will take a more conservative view of his duties. Every one agrees
that, in spite of his theories, he has a good head for business; and whatever he does at Westmore
for the advantage of his children will naturally be for Cicely's advantage too."

Mr. Langhope returned her gaze thoughtfully. "There's something in what you say," he admitted
after a pause. "But it doesn't alter the fact that, with Amherst unmarried, the whole of the
Westmore fortune would have gone back to Cicely--where it belongs."

"Possibly. But it was so unlikely that he would remain unmarried."

"I don't see why! A man of honour would have felt bound to keep the money for Cicely."

"But you must remember that, from Mr. Amherst's standpoint, the money belongs rather to Westmore
than to Cicely."

"He's no better than a socialist, then!"

"Well--supposing he isn't: the birth of a son and heir will cure that."

Mr. Langhope winced, but she persisted gently: "It's really safer for Cicely as it is--" and
before the end of the conference he found himself confessing, half against his will: "Well,
since he hadn't the decency to remain single, I'm thankful he hasn't inflicted a stranger on
us; and I shall never forget what Miss Brent did for my poor Bessy...."

It was the view she had wished to bring him to, and the view which, in due course, with all
his accustomed grace and adaptability, he presented to the searching gaze of a society profoundly
moved by the incident of Amherst's marriage. "Of course, if Mr. Langhope approves--" society
reluctantly murmured; and that Mr. Langhope did approve was presently made manifest by every
outward show of consideration toward the newly-wedded couple.

       *       *       *       *       *

Amherst and Justine had been married in September; and after a holiday in Canada and the Adirondacks
they returned to Hanaford for the winter. Amherst had proposed a short flight to Europe; but
his wife preferred to settle down at once to her new duties.

The announcement of her marriage had been met by Mrs. Dressel with a comment which often afterward
returned to her memory. "It's splendid for you, of course, dear, in one way," her friend had
murmured, between disparagement and envy--"that is, if you can stand talking about the Westmore
mill-hands all the rest of your life."

"Oh, but I couldn't--I should hate it!" Justine had energetically rejoined; meeting Mrs. Dressel's
admonitory "Well, then?" with the laughing assurance that she meant to lead the conversation.

She knew well enough what the admonition meant. To Amherst, so long thwarted in his chosen
work, the subject of Westmore was becoming an idée fixe; and it was natural that Hanaford should
class him as a man of one topic. But Justine had guessed at his other side; a side as long
thwarted, and far less articulate, which she intended to wake into life. She had felt it in
him from the first, though their talks had so uniformly turned on the subject which palled
on Hanaford; and it had been revealed to her during the silent hours among his books, when
she had grown into such close intimacy with his mind.

She did not, assuredly, mean to spend the rest of her days talking about the Westmore mill-hands;
but in the arrogance of her joy she wished to begin her married life in the setting of its
habitual duties, and to achieve the victory of evoking the secret unsuspected Amherst out of
the preoccupied business man chained to his task. Dull lovers might have to call on romantic
scenes to wake romantic feelings; but Justine's glancing imagination leapt to the challenge
of extracting poetry from the prose of routine.

And this was precisely the triumph that the first months brought her. To mortal eye, Amherst
and Justine seemed to be living at Hanaford: in reality they were voyaging on unmapped seas
of adventure. The seas were limitless, and studded with happy islands: every fresh discovery
they made about each other, every new agreement of ideas and feelings, offered itself to these
intrepid explorers as a friendly coast where they might beach their keel and take their bearings.
Thus, in the thronging hum of metaphor, Justine sometimes pictured their relation; seeing it,
again, as a journey through crowded populous cities, where every face she met was Amherst's;
or, contrarily, as a multiplication of points of perception, so that one became, for the world's
contact, a surface so multitudinously alive that the old myth of hearing the grass grow and
walking the rainbow explained itself as the heightening of personality to the utmost pitch
of sympathy.

In reality, the work at Westmore became an almost necessary sedative after these flights into
the blue. She felt sometimes that they would have been bankrupted of sensations if daily hours
of drudgery had not provided a reservoir in which fresh powers of enjoyment could slowly gather.
And their duties had the rarer quality of constituting, precisely, the deepest, finest bond
between them, the clarifying element which saved their happiness from stagnation, and kept
it in the strong mid-current of human feeling.

It was this element in their affection which, in the last days of November, was unexpectedly
put on trial. Mr. Langhope, since his return from his annual visit to Europe, showed signs
of diminishing strength and elasticity. He had had to give up his nightly dinner parties, to
desert his stall at the Opera: to take, in short, as he plaintively put it, his social pleasures
homœopathically. Certain of his friends explained the change by saying that he had never been
"quite the same" since his daughter's death; while others found its determining cause in the
shock of Amherst's second marriage. But this insinuation Mr. Langhope in due time discredited
by writing to ask the Amhersts if they would not pity his loneliness and spend the winter in
town with him. The proposal came in a letter to Justine, which she handed to her husband one
afternoon on his return from the mills.

She sat behind the tea-table in the Westmore drawing-room, now at last transformed, not into
Mrs. Dressel's vision of "something lovely in Louis Seize," but into a warm yet sober setting
for books, for scattered flowers, for deep chairs and shaded lamps in pleasant nearness to
each other.

Amherst raised his eyes from the letter, thinking as he did so how well her bright head, with
its flame-like play of meanings, fitted into the background she had made for it. Still unobservant
of external details, he was beginning to feel a vague well-being of the eye wherever her touch
had passed.

"Well, we must do it," he said simply.

"Oh, must we?" she murmured, holding out his cup.

He smiled at her note of dejection. "Unnatural woman! New York versus Hanaford--do you really
dislike it so much?"

She tried to bring a tone of consent into her voice. "I shall be very glad to be with Cicely
again--and that, of course," she reflected, "is the reason why Mr. Langhope wants us."

"Well--if it is, it's a good reason."

"Yes. But how much shall you be with us?"

"If you say so, I'll arrange to get away for a month or two."

"Oh, no: I don't want that!" she said, with a smile that triumphed a little. "But why should
not Cicely come here?"

"If Mr. Langhope is cut off from his usual amusements, I'm afraid that would only make him
more lonely."

"Yes, I suppose so." She put aside her untasted cup, resting her elbows on her knees, and her
chin on her clasped hands, in the attitude habitual to her in moments of inward debate.

Amherst rose and seated himself on the sofa beside her. "Dear! What is it?" he said, drawing
her hands down, so that she had to turn her face to his.

"Nothing...I don't know...a superstition. I've been so happy here!"

"Is our happiness too perishable to be transplanted?"

She smiled and answered by another question. "You don't mind doing it, then?"

Amherst hesitated. "Shall I tell you? I feel that it's a sort of ring of Polycrates. It may
buy off the jealous gods."

A faint shrinking from some importunate suggestion seemed to press her closer to him. "Then
you feel they are jealous?" she breathed, in a half-laugh.

"I pity them if they're not!"

"Yes," she agreed, rallying to his tone. "I only had a fancy that they might overlook such
a dull place as Hanaford."

Amherst drew her to him. "Isn't it, on the contrary, in the ash-heaps that the rag-pickers prowl?"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no disguising it: she was growing afraid of her happiness. Her husband's analogy
of the ring expressed her fear. She seemed to herself to carry a blazing jewel on her breast--something
that singled her out for human envy and divine pursuit. She had a preposterous longing to dress
plainly and shabbily, to subdue her voice and gestures, to try to slip through life unnoticed;
yet all the while she knew that her jewel would shoot its rays through every disguise. And
from the depths of ancient atavistic instincts came the hope that Amherst was right--that by
sacrificing their precious solitude to Mr. Langhope's convenience they might still deceive
the gods.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once pledged to her new task, Justine, as usual, espoused it with ardour. It was pleasant,
even among greater joys, to see her husband again frankly welcomed by Mr. Langhope; to see
Cicely bloom into happiness at their coming; and to overhear Mr. Langhope exclaim, in a confidential
aside to his son-in-law: "It's wonderful, the bien-être that wife of yours diffuses about her!"

The element of bien-être was the only one in which Mr. Langhope could draw breath; and to those
who kept him immersed in it he was prodigal of delicate attentions. The experiment, in short,
was a complete success; and even Amherst's necessary weeks at Hanaford had the merit of giving
a finer flavour to his brief appearances.

Of all this Justine was thinking as she drove down Fifth Avenue one January afternoon to meet
her husband at the Grand Central station. She had tamed her happiness at last: the quality
of fear had left it, and it nestled in her heart like some wild creature subdued to human ways.
And, as her inward bliss became more and more a quiet habit of the mind, the longing to help
and minister returned, absorbing her more deeply in her husband's work.

She dismissed the carriage at the station, and when his train had arrived they emerged together
into the cold winter twilight and turned up Madison Avenue. These walks home from the station
gave them a little more time to themselves than if they had driven; and there was always so
much to tell on both sides. This time the news was all good: the work at Westmore was prospering,
and on Justine's side there was a more cheerful report of Mr. Langhope's health, and--best
of all--his promise to give them Cicely for the summer. Amherst and Justine were both anxious
that the child should spend more time at Hanaford, that her young associations should begin
to gather about Westmore; and Justine exulted in the fact that the suggestion had come from
Mr. Langhope himself, while she and Amherst were still planning how to lead him up to it.

They reached the house while this triumph was still engaging them; and in the doorway Amherst
turned to her with a smile.

"And of course--dear man!--he believes the idea is all his. There's nothing you can't make
people believe, you little Jesuit!"

"I don't think there is!" she boasted, falling gaily into his tone; and then, as the door opened,
and she entered the hall, her eyes fell on a blotted envelope which lay among the letters on
the table.

The parlour-maid proffered it with a word of explanation. "A gentleman left it for you, madam;
he asked to see you, and said he'd call for the answer in a day or two."

"Another begging letter, I suppose," said Amherst, turning into the drawing-room, where Mr.
Langhope and Cicely awaited them; and Justine, carelessly pushing the envelope into her muff,
murmured "I suppose so" as she followed him.

XXXIII

OVER the tea-table Justine forgot the note in her muff; but when she went upstairs to dress
it fell to the floor, and she picked it up and laid it on her dressing-table.

She had already recognized the hand as Wyant's, for it was not the first letter she had received
from him.

Three times since her marriage he had appealed to her for help, excusing himself on the plea
of difficulties and ill-health. The first time he wrote, he alluded vaguely to having married,
and to being compelled, through illness, to give up his practice at Clifton. On receiving this
letter she made enquiries, and learned that, a month or two after her departure from Lynbrook,
Wyant had married a Clifton girl--a pretty piece of flaunting innocence, whom she remembered
about the lanes, generally with a young man in a buggy. There had evidently been something
obscure and precipitate about the marriage, which was a strange one for the ambitious young
doctor. Justine conjectured that it might have been the cause of his leaving Clifton--or or
perhaps he had already succumbed to the fatal habit she had suspected in him. At any rate he
seemed, in some mysterious way, to have dropped in two years from promise to failure; yet she
could not believe that, with his talents, and the name he had begun to make, such a lapse could
be more than temporary. She had often heard Dr. Garford prophesy great things for him; but
Dr. Garford had died suddenly during the previous summer, and the loss of this powerful friend
was mentioned by Wyant among his misfortunes.

Justine was anxious to help him, but her marriage to a rich man had not given her the command
of much money. She and Amherst, choosing to regard themselves as pensioners on the Westmore
fortune, were scrupulous in restricting their personal expenditure; and her work among the
mill-hands brought many demands on the modest allowance which her husband had insisted on her
accepting. In reply to Wyant's first appeal, which reached her soon after her marriage, she
had sent him a hundred dollars; but when the second came, some two months later--with a fresh
tale of ill-luck and ill-health--she had not been able to muster more than half the amount.
Finally a third letter had arrived, a short time before their leaving for New York. It told
the same story of persistent misfortune, but on this occasion Wyant, instead of making a direct
appeal for money, suggested that, through her hospital connections, she should help him to
establish a New York practice. His tone was half-whining, half-peremptory, his once precise
writing smeared and illegible; and these indications, combined with her former suspicions,
convinced her that, for the moment, he was unfit for medical work. At any rate, she could not
assume the responsibility of recommending him; and in answering she advised him to apply to
some of the physicians he had worked with at Lynbrook, softening her refusal by the enclosure
of a small sum of money. To this letter she received no answer. Wyant doubtless found the money
insufficient, and resented her unwillingness to help him by the use of her influence; and she
felt sure that the note before her contained a renewal of his former request.

An obscure reluctance made her begin to undress before opening it. She felt slightly tired
and indolently happy, and she did not wish any jarring impression to break in on the sense
of completeness which her husband's coming always put into her life. Her happiness was making
her timid and luxurious: she was beginning to shrink from even trivial annoyances.

But when at length, in her dressing-gown, her loosened hair about her shoulders, she seated
herself before the toilet-mirror, Wyant's note once more confronted her. It was absurd to put
off reading it--if he asked for money again, she would simply confide the whole business to
Amherst.

She had never spoken to her husband of her correspondence with Wyant. The mere fact that the
latter had appealed to her, instead of addressing himself to Amherst, made her suspect that
he had a weakness to hide, and counted on her professional discretion. But his continued importunities
would certainly release her from any such supposed obligation; and she thought with relief
of casting the weight of her difficulty on her husband's shoulders.

She opened the note and read.

"I did not acknowledge your last letter because I was ashamed to tell you that the money was
not enough to be of any use. But I am past shame now. My wife was confined three weeks ago,
and has been desperately ill ever since. She is in no state to move, but we shall be put out
of these rooms unless I can get money or work at once. A word from you would have given me
a start in New York--and I'd be willing to begin again as an interne or a doctor's assistant.

"I have never reminded you of what you owe me, and I should not do so now if I hadn't been
to hell and back since I saw you. But I suppose you would rather have me remind you than apply
to Mr. Amherst. You can tell me when to call for my answer."

Justine laid down the letter and looked up. Her eyes rested on her own reflection in the glass,
and it frightened her. She sat motionless, with a thickly-beating heart, one hand clenched
on the letter.

"I suppose you would rather have me remind you than apply to Mr. Amherst."

That was what his importunity meant, then! She had been paying blackmail all this time....
Somewhere, from the first, in an obscure fold of consciousness, she had felt the stir of an
unnamed, unacknowledged fear; and now the fear raised its head and looked at her. Well! She
would look back at it, then: look it straight in the malignant eye. What was it, after all,
but a "bugbear to scare children"--the ghost of the opinion of the many? She had suspected
from the first that Wyant knew of her having shortened the term of Bessy Amherst's sufferings--returning
to the room when he did, it was almost impossible that he should not have guessed what had
happened; and his silence had made her believe that he understood her motive and approved it.
But, supposing she had been mistaken, she still had nothing to fear, since she had done nothing
that her own conscience condemned. If the act were to do again she would do it--she had never
known a moment's regret!

Suddenly she heard Amherst's step in the passage--heard him laughing and talking as he chased
Cicely up the stairs to the nursery.

If she was not afraid, why had she never told Amherst?

Why, the answer to that was simple enough! She had not told him because she was not afraid.
From the first she had retained sufficient detachment to view her act impartially, to find
it completely justified by circumstances, and to decide that, since those circumstances could
be but partly and indirectly known to her husband, she not only had the right to keep her own
counsel, but was actually under a kind of obligation not to force on him the knowledge of a
fact that he could not alter and could not completely judge.... Was there any flaw in this
line of reasoning? Did it not show a deliberate weighing of conditions, a perfect rectitude
of intention? And, after all, she had had Amherst's virtual consent to her act! She knew his
feelings on such matters--his independence of traditional judgments, his horror of inflicting
needless pain--she was as sure of his intellectual assent as of her own. She was even sure
that, when she told him, he would appreciate her reasons for not telling him before....

For now of course he must know everything--this horrible letter made it inevitable. She regretted
that she had decided, though for the best of reasons, not to speak to him of her own accord;
for it was intolerable that he should think of any external pressure as having brought her
to avowal. But no! he would not think that. The understanding between them was so complete
that no deceptive array of circumstances could ever make her motives obscure to him. She let
herself rest a moment in the thought....

Presently she heard him moving in the next room--he had come back to dress for dinner. She
would go to him now, at once--she could not bear this weight on her mind the whole evening.
She pushed back her chair, crumpling the letter in her hand; but as she did so, her eyes again
fell on her reflection. She could not go to her husband with such a face! If she was not afraid,
why did she look like that?

Well--she was afraid! It would be easier and simpler to admit it. She was afraid--afraid for
the first time--afraid for her own happiness! She had had just eight months of happiness--it
was horrible to think of losing it so soon.... Losing it? But why should she lose it? The letter
must have affected her brain...all her thoughts were in a blur of fear.... Fear of what? Of
the man who understood her as no one else understood her? The man to whose wisdom and mercy
she trusted as the believer trusts in God? This was a kind of abominable nightmare--even Amherst's
image had been distorted in her mind! The only way to clear her brain, to recover the normal
sense of things, was to go to him now, at once, to feel his arms about her, to let his kiss
dispel her fears.... She rose with a long breath of relief.

She had to cross the length of the room to reach his door, and when she had gone half-way she
heard him knock.

"May I come in?"

She was close to the fire-place, and a bright fire burned on the hearth.

"Come in!" she answered; and as she did so, she turned and dropped Wyant's letter into the
fire. Her hand had crushed it into a little ball, and she saw the flames spring up and swallow
it before her husband entered.

It was not that she had changed her mind--she still meant to tell him everything. But to hold
the letter was like holding a venomous snake--she wanted to exterminate it, to forget that
she had ever seen the blotted repulsive characters. And she could not bear to have Amherst's
eyes rest on it, to have him know that any man had dared to write to her in that tone. What
vile meanings might not be read between Wyant's phrases? She had a right to tell the story
in her own way--the true way....

As Amherst approached, in his evening clothes, the heavy locks smoothed from his forehead,
a flower of Cicely's giving in his button-hole, she thought she had never seen him look so
kind and handsome.

"Not dressed? Do you know that it's ten minutes to eight?" he said, coming up to her with a smile.

She roused herself, putting her hands to her hair. "Yes, I know--I forgot," she murmured, longing
to feel his arms about her, but standing rooted to the ground, unable to move an inch nearer.

It was he who came close, drawing her lifted hands into his. "You look worried--I hope it was
nothing troublesome that made you forget?"

The divine kindness in his voice, his eyes! Yes--it would be easy, quite easy, to tell him....

"No--yes--I was a little troubled...." she said, feeling the warmth of his touch flow through
her hands reassuringly.

"Dear! What about?"

She drew a deep breath. "The letter----"

He looked puzzled. "What letter?"

"Downstairs...when we came in...it was not an ordinary begging-letter."

"No? What then?" he asked, his face clouding.

She noticed the change, and it frightened her. Was he angry? Was he going to be angry? But
how absurd! He was only distressed at her distress.

"What then?" he repeated, more gently.

She looked up into his eyes for an instant. "It was a horrible letter----" she whispered, as
she pressed her clasped hands against him.

His grasp tightened on her wrists, and again the stern look crossed his face. "Horrible? What
do you mean?"

She had never seen him angry--but she felt suddenly that, to the guilty creature, his anger
would be terrible. He would crush Wyant--she must be careful how she spoke.

"I didn't mean that--only painful...."

"Where is the letter? Let me see it."

"Oh, no" she exclaimed, shrinking away.

"Justine, what has happened? What ails you?"

On a blind impulse she had backed toward the hearth, propping her arms against the mantel-piece
while she stole a secret glance at the embers. Nothing remained of it--no, nothing.

But suppose it was against herself that his anger turned? The idea was preposterous, yet she
trembled at it. It was clear that she must say something at once--must somehow account for
her agitation. But the sense that she was unnerved--no longer in control of her face, her voice--made
her feel that she would tell her story badly if she told it now.... Had she not the right to
gain a respite, to choose her own hour? Weakness--weakness again! Every delay would only increase
the phantom terror. Now, now--with her head on his breast!

She turned toward him and began to speak impulsively.

"I can't show you the letter, because it's not--not my secret----"

"Ah?" he murmured, perceptibly relieved.

"It's from some one--unlucky--whom I've known about...."

"And whose troubles have been troubling you? But can't we help?"

She shone on him through gleaming lashes. "Some one poor and ill--who needs money, I mean----"
She tried to laugh away her tears. "And I haven't any! That's my trouble!"

"Foolish child! And to beg you are ashamed? And so you're letting your tears cool Mr. Langhope's
soup?" He had her in his arms now, his kisses drying her cheek; and she turned her head so
that their lips met in a long pressure.

"Will a hundred dollars do?" he asked with a smile as he released her.

A hundred dollars! No--she was almost sure they would not. But she tried to shape a murmur
of gratitude. "Thank you--thank you! I hated to ask...."

"I'll write the cheque at once."

"No--no," she protested, "there's no hurry."

But he went back to his room, and she turned again to the toilet-table. Her face was painful
to look at still--but a light was breaking through its fear. She felt the touch of a narcotic
in her veins. How calm and peaceful the room was--and how delicious to think that her life
would go on in it, safely and peacefully, in the old familiar way!

As she swept up her hair, passing the comb through it, and flinging it dexterously over her
lifted wrist, she heard Amherst cross the floor behind her, and pause to lay something on her
writing-table.

"Thank you," she murmured again, lowering her head as he passed.

When the door had closed on him she thrust the last pin into her hair, dashed some drops of
Cologne on her face, and went over to the writing-table. As she picked up the cheque she saw
it was for three hundred dollars.

XXXIV

ONCE or twice, in the days that followed, Justine found herself thinking that she had never
known happiness before. The old state of secure well-being seemed now like a dreamless sleep;
but this new bliss, on its sharp pinnacle ringed with fire--this thrilling conscious joy, daily
and hourly snatched from fear--this was living, not sleeping!

Wyant acknowledged her gift with profuse, almost servile thanks. She had sent it without a
word--saying to herself that pity for his situation made it possible to ignore his baseness.
And the days went on as before. She was not conscious of any change, save in the heightened,
almost artificial quality of her happiness, till one day in March, when Mr. Langhope announced
that he was going for two or three weeks to a friend's shooting-box in the south. The anniversary
of Bessy's death was approaching, and Justine knew that at that time he always absented himself.

"Supposing you and Amherst were to carry off Cicely till I come back? Perhaps you could persuade
him to break away from work for once--or, if that's impossible, you could take her with you
to Hanaford. She looks a little pale, and the change would be good for her."

This was a great concession on Mr. Langhope's part, and Justine saw the pleasure in her husband's
face. It was the first time that his father-in-law had suggested Cicely's going to Hanaford.

"I'm afraid I can't break away just now, sir," Amherst said, "but it will be delightful for
Justine if you'll give us Cicely while you're away."

"Take her by all means, my dear fellow: I always sleep on both ears when she's with your wife."

It was nearly three months since Justine had left Hanaford--and now she was to return there
alone with her husband! There would be hours, of course, when the child's presence was between
them--or when, again, his work would keep him at the mills. But in the evenings, when Cicely
was in bed--when he and she sat alone, together in the Westmore drawing-room--in Bessy's drawing-room!...
No--she must find some excuse for remaining away till she had again grown used to the idea
of being alone with Amherst. Every day she was growing a little more used to it; but it would
take time--time, and the full assurance that Wyant was silenced. Till then she could not go
back to Hanaford.

She found a pretext in her own health. She pleaded that she was a little tired, below par...and
to return to Hanaford meant returning to hard work; with the best will in the world she could
not be idle there. Might she not, she suggested, take Cicely to Tuxedo or Lakewood, and thus
get quite away from household cares and good works? The pretext rang hollow--it was so unlike
her! She saw Amherst's eyes rest anxiously on her as Mr. Langhope uttered his prompt assent.
Certainly she did look tired--Mr. Langhope himself had noticed it. Had he perhaps over-taxed
her energies, left the household too entirely on her shoulders? Oh, no--it was only the New
York air...like Cicely, she pined for a breath of the woods.... And so, the day Mr. Langhope
left, she and Cicely were packed off to Lakewood.

They stayed there a week: then a fit of restlessness drove Justine back to town. She found
an excuse in the constant rain--it was really useless, as she wrote Mr. Langhope, to keep the
child imprisoned in an over-heated hotel while they could get no benefit from the outdoor life.
In reality, she found the long lonely hours unendurable. She pined for a sight of her husband,
and thought of committing Cicely to Mrs. Ansell's care, and making a sudden dash for Hanaford.
But the vision of the long evenings in the Westmore drawing-room again restrained her. No--she
would simply go back to New York, dine out occasionally, go to a concert or two, trust to the
usual demands of town life to crowd her hours with small activities.... And in another week
Mr. Langhope would be back and the days would resume their normal course.

On arriving, she looked feverishly through the letters in the hall. None from Wyant--that fear
was allayed! Every day added to her reassurance. By this time, no doubt, he was on his feet
again, and ashamed--unutterably ashamed--of the threat that despair had wrung from him. She
felt almost sure that his shame would keep him from ever attempting to see her, or even from
writing again.

"A gentleman called to see you yesterday, madam--he would give no name," the parlour-maid said.
And there was the sick fear back on her again! She could hardly control the trembling of her
lips as she asked: "Did he leave no message?"

"No, madam: he only wanted to know when you'd be back."

She longed to return: "And did you tell him?" but restrained herself, and passed into the drawing-room.
After all, the parlour-maid had not described the caller--why jump to the conclusion that it
was Wyant?

Three days passed, and no letter came--no sign. She struggled with the temptation to describe
Wyant to the servants, and to forbid his admission. But it would not do. They were nearly all
old servants, in whose eyes she was still the intruder, the upstart sick-nurse--she could not
wholly trust them. And each day she felt a little easier, a little more convinced that the
unknown visitor had not been Wyant.

On the fourth day she received a letter from Amherst. He hoped to be back on the morrow, but
as his plans were still uncertain he would telegraph in the morning--and meanwhile she must
keep well, and rest, and amuse herself....

Amuse herself! That evening, as it happened, she was going to the theatre with Mrs. Ansell.
She and Mrs. Ansell, though outwardly on perfect terms, had not greatly advanced in intimacy.
The agitated, decentralized life of the older woman seemed futile and trivial to Justine; but
on Mr. Langhope's account she wished to keep up an appearance of friendship with his friend,
and the same motive doubtless inspired Mrs. Ansell. Just now, at any rate, Justine was grateful
for her attentions, and glad to go about with her. Anything--anything to get away from her
own thoughts! That was the pass she had come to.

At the theatre, in a proscenium box, the publicity, the light and movement, the action of the
play, all helped to distract and quiet her. At such moments she grew ashamed of her fears.
Why was she tormenting herself? If anything happened she had only to ask her husband for more
money. She never spoke to him of her good works, and there would be nothing to excite suspicion
in her asking help again for the friend whose secret she was pledged to keep.... But nothing
was going to happen. As the play progressed, and the stimulus of talk and laughter flowed through
her veins, she felt a complete return of confidence. And then suddenly she glanced across the
house, and saw Wyant looking at her.

He sat rather far back, in one of the side rows just beneath the balcony, so that his face
was partly shaded. But even in the shadow it frightened her. She had been prepared for a change,
but not for this ghastly deterioration. And he continued to look at her.

She began to be afraid that he would do something conspicuous--point at her, or stand up in
his seat. She thought he looked half-mad--or was it her own hallucination that made him appear
so? She and Mrs. Ansell were alone in the box for the moment, and she started up, pushing back
her chair....

Mrs. Ansell leaned forward. "What is it?"

"Nothing--the heat--I'll sit back for a moment." But as she withdrew into the back of the box,
she was seized by a new fear. If he was still watching, might he not come to the door and try
to speak to her? Her only safety lay in remaining in full view of the audience; and she returned
to Mrs. Ansell's side.

The other members of the party came back--the bell rang, the foot-lights blazed, the curtain
rose. She lost herself in the mazes of the play. She sat so motionless, her face so intently
turned toward the stage, that the muscles at the back of her neck began to stiffen. And then,
quite suddenly, toward the middle of the act, she felt an undefinable sense of relief. She
could not tell what caused it--but slowly, cautiously, while the eyes of the others were intent
upon the stage, she turned her head and looked toward Wyant's seat. It was empty.

Her first thought was that he had gone to wait for her outside. But no--there were two more
acts: why should he stand at the door for half the evening?

At last the act ended; the entr'acte elapsed; the play went on again--and still the seat was
empty. Gradually she persuaded herself that she had been mistaken in thinking that the man
who had occupied it was Wyant. Her self-command returned, she began to think and talk naturally,
to follow the dialogue on the stage--and when the evening was over, and Mrs. Ansell set her
down at her door, she had almost forgotten her fears.

The next morning she felt calmer than for many days. She was sure now that if Wyant had wished
to speak to her he would have waited at the door of the theatre; and the recollection of his
miserable face made apprehension yield to pity. She began to feel that she had treated him
coldly, uncharitably. They had been friends once, as well as fellow-workers; but she had been
false even to the comradeship of the hospital. She should have sought him out and given him
sympathy as well as money; had she shown some sign of human kindness his last letter might
never have been written.

In the course of the morning Amherst telegraphed that he hoped to settle his business in time
to catch the two o'clock express, but that his plans were still uncertain. Justine and Cicely
lunched alone, and after luncheon the little girl was despatched to her dancing-class. Justine
herself meant to go out when the brougham returned. She went up to her room to dress, planning
to drive in the park, and to drop in on Mrs. Ansell before she called for Cicely; but on the
way downstairs she saw the servant opening the door to a visitor. It was too late to draw back;
and descending the last steps she found herself face to face with Wyant.

They looked at each other a moment in silence; then Justine murmured a word of greeting and
led the way to the drawing-room.

It was a snowy afternoon, and in the raw ash-coloured light she thought he looked more changed
than at the theatre. She remarked, too, that his clothes were worn and untidy, his gloveless
hands soiled and tremulous. None of the degrading signs of his infirmity were lacking; and
she saw at once that, while in the early days of the habit he had probably mixed his drugs,
so that the conflicting symptoms neutralized each other, he had now sunk into open morphia-taking.
She felt profoundly sorry for him; yet as he followed her into the room physical repulsion
again mastered the sense of pity.

But where action was possible she was always self-controlled, and she turned to him quietly
as they seated themselves.

"I have been wishing to see you," she said, looking at him. "I have felt that I ought to have
done so sooner--to have told you how sorry I am for your bad luck."

He returned her glance with surprise: they were evidently the last words he had expected.

"You're very kind," he said in a low embarrassed voice. He had kept on his shabby over-coat,
and he twirled his hat in his hands as he spoke.

"I have felt," Justine continued, "that perhaps a talk with you might be of more use----"

He raised his head, fixing her with bright narrowed eyes. "I have felt so too: that's my reason
for coming. You sent me a generous present some weeks ago--but I don't want to go on living
on charity."

"I understand that," she answered. "But why have you had to do so? Won't you tell me just what
has happened?"

She felt the words to be almost a mockery; yet she could not say "I read your history at a
glance"; and she hoped that her question might draw out his wretched secret, and thus give
her the chance to speak frankly.

He gave a nervous laugh. "Just what has happened? It's a long story--and some of the details
are not particularly pretty." He broke off, moving his hat more rapidly through his trembling
hands.

"Never mind: tell me."

"Well--after you all left Lynbrook I had rather a bad break-down--the strain of Mrs. Amherst's
case, I suppose. You remember Bramble, the Clifton grocer? Miss Bramble nursed me--I daresay
you remember her too. When I recovered I married her--and after that things didn't go well."

He paused, breathing quickly, and looking about the room with odd, furtive glances. "I was
only half-well, anyhow--I couldn't attend to my patients properly--and after a few months we
decided to leave Clifton, and I bought a practice in New Jersey. But my wife was ill there,
and things went wrong again--damnably. I suppose you've guessed that my marriage was a mistake.
She had an idea that we should do better in New York--so we came here a few months ago, and
we've done decidedly worse."

Justine listened with a sense of discouragement. She saw now that he did not mean to acknowledge
his failing, and knowing the secretiveness of the drug-taker she decided that he was deluded
enough to think he could still deceive her.

"Well," he began again, with an attempt at jauntiness, "I've found out that in my profession
it's a hard struggle to get on your feet again, after illness or--or any bad set-back. That's
the reason I asked you to say a word for me. It's not only the money, though I need that badly--I
want to get back my self-respect. With my record I oughtn't to be where I am--and you can speak
for me better than any one."

"Why better than the doctors you've worked with?" Justine put the question abruptly, looking
him straight in the eyes.

His glance dropped, and an unpleasant flush rose to his thin cheeks.

"Well--as it happens, you're better situated than any one to help me to the particular thing
I want."

"The particular thing----?"

"Yes. I understand that Mr. Langhope and Mrs. Ansell are both interested in the new wing for
paying patients at Saint Christopher's. I want the position of house-physician there, and I
know you can get it for me."

His tone changed as he spoke, till with the last words it became rough and almost menacing.

Justine felt her colour rise, and her heart began to beat confusedly. Here was the truth, then:
she could no longer be the dupe of her own compassion. The man knew his power and meant to
use it. But at the thought her courage was in arms.

"I'm sorry--but it's impossible," she said.

"Impossible--why?"

She continued to look at him steadily. "You said just now that you wished to regain your self-respect.
Well, you must regain it before you can ask me--or any one else--to recommend you to a position
of trust."

Wyant half-rose, with an angry murmur. "My self-respect? What do you mean? I meant that I'd
lost courage--through ill-luck----"

"Yes; and your ill-luck has come through your own fault. Till you cure yourself you're not
fit to cure others."

He sank back into his seat, glowering at her under sullen brows; then his expression gradually
changed to half-sneering admiration. "You're a plucky one!" he said.

Justine repressed a movement of disgust. "I am very sorry for you," she said gravely. "I saw
this trouble coming on you long ago--and if there is any other way in which I can help you----"

"Thanks," he returned, still sneering. "Your sympathy is very precious--there was a time when
I would have given my soul for it. But that's over, and I'm here to talk business. You say
you saw my trouble coming on--did it ever occur to you that you were the cause of it?"

Justine glanced at him with frank contempt. "No--for I was not," she replied.

"That's an easy way out of it. But you took everything from me--first my hope of marrying you;
then my chance of a big success in my career; and I was desperate--weak, if you like--and tried
to deaden my feelings in order to keep up my pluck."

Justine rose to her feet with a movement of impatience. "Every word you say proves how unfit
you are to assume any responsibility--to do anything but try to recover your health. If I can
help you to that, I am still willing to do so."

Wyant rose also, moving a step nearer. "Well, get me that place, then--I'll see to the rest:
I'll keep straight."

"No--it's impossible."

"You won't?"

"I can't," she repeated firmly.

"And you expect to put me off with that answer?"

She hesitated. "Yes--if there's no other help you'll accept."

He laughed again--his feeble sneering laugh was disgusting. "Oh, I don't say that. I'd like
to earn my living honestly--funny preference--but if you cut me off from that, I suppose it's
only fair to let you make up for it. My wife and child have got to live."

"You choose a strange way of helping them; but I will do what I can if you will go for a while
to some institution----"

He broke in furiously. "Institution be damned! You can't shuffle me out of the way like that.
I'm all right--good food is what I need. You think I've got morphia in me--why, it's hunger!"

Justine heard him with a renewal of pity. "Oh, I'm sorry for you--very sorry! Why do you try
to deceive me?"

"Why do you deceive me? You know what I want and you know you've got to let me have it. If
you won't give me a line to one of your friends at Saint Christopher's you'll have to give
me another cheque--that's the size of it."

As they faced each other in silence Justine's pity gave way to a sudden hatred for the poor
creature who stood shivering and sneering before her.

"You choose the wrong tone--and I think our talk has lasted long enough," she said, stretching
her hand to the bell.

Wyant did not move. "Don't ring--unless you want me to write to your husband," he rejoined.

A sick feeling of helplessness overcame her; but she turned on him firmly. "I pardoned you
once for that threat!"

"Yes--and you sent me some money the next day."

"I was mistaken enough to think that, in your distress, you had not realized what you wrote.
But if you're a systematic blackmailer----"

"Gently--gently. Bad names don't frighten me--it's hunger and debt I'm afraid of."

Justine felt a last tremor of compassion. He was abominable--but he was pitiable too.

"I will really help you--I will see your wife and do what I can--but I can give you no money
today."

"Why not?"

"Because I have none. I am not as rich as you think."

He smiled incredulously. "Give me a line to Mr. Langhope, then."

"No."

He sat down once more, leaning back with a weak assumption of ease. "Perhaps Mr. Amherst will
think differently."

She whitened, but said steadily: "Mr. Amherst is away."

"Very well--I can write."

For the last five minutes Justine had foreseen this threat, and had tried to force her mind
to face dispassionately the chances it involved. After all, why not let him write to Amherst?
The very vileness of the deed must rouse an indignation which would be all in her favour, would
inevitably dispose her husband to readier sympathy with the motive of her act, as contrasted
with the base insinuations of her slanderer. It seemed impossible that Amherst should condemn
her when his condemnation involved the fulfilling of Wyant's calculations: a reaction of scorn
would throw him into unhesitating championship of her conduct. All this was so clear that,
had she been advising any one else, her confidence in the course to be taken might have strengthened
the feeblest will; but with the question lying between herself and Amherst--with the vision
of those soiled hands literally laid on the spotless fabric of her happiness, judgment wavered,
foresight was obscured--she felt tremulously unable to face the steps between exposure and
vindication. Her final conclusion was that she must, at any rate, gain time: buy off Wyant
till she had been able to tell her story in her own way, and at her own hour, and then defy
him when he returned to the assault. The idea that whatever concession she made would be only
provisional, helped to excuse the weakness of making it, and enabled her at last, without too
painful a sense of falling below her own standards, to reply in a low voice: "If you'll go
now, I will send you something next week."

But Wyant did not respond as readily as she had expected. He merely asked, without altering
his insolently easy attitude: "How much? Unless it's a good deal, I prefer the letter."

Oh, why could she not cry out: "Leave the house at once--your vulgar threats are nothing to
me"--Why could she not even say in her own heart: I will tell my husband tonight?

"You're afraid," said Wyant, as if answering her thought. "What's the use of being afraid when
you can make yourself comfortable so easily? You called me a systematic blackmailer--well,
I'm not that yet. Give me a thousand and you'll see the last of me--on what used to be my honour."

Justine's heart sank. She had reached the point of being ready to appeal again to Amherst--but
on what pretext could she ask for such a sum?

In a lifeless voice she said: "I could not possibly get more than one or two hundred."

Wyant scrutinized her a moment: her despair must have rung true to him. "Well, you must have
something of your own--I saw your jewelry last night at the theatre," he said.

So it had been he--and he had sat there appraising her value like a murderer!

"Jewelry--?" she faltered.

"You had a thumping big sapphire--wasn't it?--with diamonds round it."

It was her only jewel--Amherst's marriage gift. She would have preferred a less valuable present,
but his mother had persuaded her to accept it, saying that it was the bride's duty to adorn
herself for the bridegroom.

"I will give you nothing--" she was about to exclaim; when suddenly her eyes fell on the clock.
If Amherst had caught the two o'clock express he would be at the house within the hour; and
the only thing that seemed of consequence now, was that he should not meet Wyant. Supposing
she still found courage to refuse--there was no knowing how long the humiliating scene might
be prolonged: and she must be rid of the creature at any cost. After all, she seldom wore the
sapphire--months might pass without its absence being noted by Amherst's careless eye; and
if Wyant should pawn it, she might somehow save money to buy it back before it was missed.
She went through these calculations with feverish rapidity; then she turned again to Wyant.

"You won't come back--ever?"

"I swear I won't," he said.

He moved away toward the window, as if to spare her; and she turned and slowly left the room.

She never forgot the moments that followed. Once outside the door she was in such haste that
she stumbled on the stairs, and had to pause on the landing to regain her breath. In her room
she found one of the housemaids busy, and at first could think of no pretext for dismissing
her. Then she bade the woman go down and send the brougham away, telling the coachman to call
for Miss Cicely at six.

Left alone, she bolted the door, and as if with a thief's hand, opened her wardrobe, unlocked
her jewel-box, and drew out the sapphire in its flat morocco case. She restored the box to
its place, the key to its ring--then she opened the case and looked at the sapphire. As she
did so, a little tremor ran over her neck and throat, and closing her eyes she felt her husband's
kiss, and the touch of his hands as he fastened on the jewel.

She unbolted the door, listened intently on the landing, and then went slowly down the stairs.
None of the servants were in sight, yet as she reached the lower hall she was conscious that
the air had grown suddenly colder, as though the outer door had just been opened. She paused,
and listened again. There was a sound of talking in the drawing-room. Could it be that in her
absence a visitor had been admitted? The possibility frightened her at first--then she welcomed
it as an unexpected means of ridding herself of her tormentor.

She opened the drawing-room door, and saw her husband talking with Wyant.

XXXV

AMHERST, his back to the threshold, sat at a table writing: Wyant stood a few feet away, staring
down at the fire.

Neither had heard the door open; and before they were aware of her entrance Justine had calculated
that she must have been away for at least five minutes, and that in that space of time almost
anything might have passed between them.

For a moment the power of connected thought left her; then her heart gave a bound of relief.
She said to herself that Wyant had doubtless made some allusion to his situation, and that
her husband, conscious only of a great debt of gratitude, had at once sat down to draw a cheque
for him. The idea was so reassuring that it restored all her clearness of thought.

Wyant was the first to see her. He made an abrupt movement, and Amherst, rising, turned and
put an envelope in his hand.

"There, my dear fellow----"

As he turned he caught sight of his wife.

"I caught the twelve o'clock train after all--you got my second wire?" he asked.

"No," she faltered, pressing her left hand, with the little case in it, close to the folds
of her dress.

"I was afraid not. There was a bad storm at Hanaford, and they said there might be a delay."

At the same moment she found Wyant advancing with extended hand, and understood that he had
concealed the fact of having already seen her. She accepted the cue, and shook his hand, murmuring:
"How do you do?"

Amherst looked at her, perhaps struck by her manner.

"You have not seen Dr. Wyant since Lynbrook?"

"No," she answered, thankful to have this pretext for her emotion.

"I have been telling him that he should not have left us so long without news--especially as
he has been ill, and things have gone rather badly with him. But I hope we can help now. He
has heard that Saint Christopher's is looking for a house-physician for the paying patients'
wing, and as Mr. Langhope is away I have given him a line to Mrs. Ansell."

"Extremely kind of you," Wyant murmured, passing his hand over his forehead.

Justine stood silent. She wondered that her husband had not noticed that tremulous degraded
hand. But he was always so blind to externals--and he had no medical experience to sharpen
his perceptions.

Suddenly she felt impelled to speak "I am sorry Dr. Wyant has been--unfortunate. Of course
you will want to do everything to help him; but would it not be better to wait till Mr. Langhope
comes back?"

"Wyant thinks the delay might make him lose the place. It seems the board meets tomorrow. And
Mrs. Ansell really knows much more about it. Isn't she the secretary of the ladies' committee?"

"I'm not sure--I believe so. But surely Mr. Langhope should be consulted."

She felt Wyant's face change: his eyes settled on her in a threatening stare.

Amherst looked at her also, and there was surprise in his glance. "I think I can answer for
my father-in-law. He feels as strongly as I do how much we all owe to Dr. Wyant."

He seldom spoke of Mr. Langhope as his father-in-law, and the chance designation seemed to
mark a closer tie between them, to exclude Justine from what was after all a family affair.
For a moment she felt tempted to accept the suggestion, and let the responsibility fall where
it would. But it would fall on Amherst--and that was intolerable.

"I think you ought to wait," she insisted.

An embarrassed silence settled on the three.

Wyant broke it by advancing toward Amherst. "I shall never forget your kindness," he said;
"and I hope to prove to Mrs. Amherst that it's not misplaced."

The words were well chosen, and well spoken; Justine saw that they produced a good effect.
Amherst grasped the physician's hand with a smile. "My dear fellow, I wish I could do more.
Be sure to call on me again if you want help."

"Oh, you've put me on my feet," said Wyant gratefully.

He bowed slightly to Justine and turned to go; but as he reached the threshold she moved after him.

"Dr. Wyant--you must give back that letter."

He stopped short with a whitening face.

She felt Amherst's eyes on her again; and she said desperately, addressing him: "Dr. Wyant
understands my reasons."

Her husband's glance turned abruptly to Wyant. "Do you?" he asked after a pause.

Wyant looked from one to the other. The moisture came out on his forehead, and he passed his
hand over it again. "Yes," he said in a dry voice. "Mrs. Amherst wants me farther off--out
of New York."

"Out of New York? What do you mean?"

Justine interposed hastily, before the answer could come. "It is because Dr. Wyant is not in
condition--for such a place--just at present."

"But he assures me he is quite well."

There was another silence; and again Wyant broke in, this time with a slight laugh. "I can
explain what Mrs. Amherst means; she intends to accuse me of the morphine habit. And I can
explain her reason for doing so--she wants me out of the way."

Amherst turned on the speaker; and, as she had foreseen, his look was terrible. "You haven't
explained that yet," he said.

"Well--I can." Wyant waited another moment. "I know too much about her," he declared.

There was a low exclamation from Justine, and Amherst strode toward Wyant. "You infernal blackguard!"
he cried.

"Oh, gently----" Wyant muttered, flinching back from his outstretched arm.

"My wife's wish is sufficient. Give me back that letter."

Wyant straightened himself. "No, by God, I won't!" he retorted furiously. "I didn't ask you
for it till you offered to help me; but I won't let it be taken back without a word, like a
thief that you'd caught with your umbrella. If your wife won't explain I will. She's, afraid
I'll talk about what happened at Lynbrook."

Amherst's arm fell to his side. "At Lynbrook?"

Behind him there was a sound of inarticulate appeal--but he took no notice.

"Yes. It's she who used morphia--but not on herself. She gives it to other people. She gave
an overdose to Mrs. Amherst."

Amherst looked at him confusedly. "An overdose?"

"Yes--purposely, I mean. And I came into the room at the wrong time. I can prove that Mrs.
Amherst died of morphia-poisoning."

"John!" Justine gasped out, pressing between them.

Amherst gently put aside the hand with which she had caught his arm. "Wait a moment: this can't
rest here. You can't want it to," he said to her in an undertone.

"Why do you care...for what he says...when I don't?" she breathed back with trembling lips.

"You can see I am not wanted here," Wyant threw in with a sneer.

Amherst remained silent for a brief space; then he turned his eyes once more to his wife.

Justine lifted her face: it looked small and spent, like an extinguished taper.

"It's true," she said.

"True?"

"I did give...an overdose...intentionally, when I knew there was no hope, and when the surgeons
said she might go on suffering. She was very strong...and I couldn't bear it...you couldn't
have borne it...."

There was another silence; then she went on in a stronger voice, looking straight at her husband:
"And now will you send this man away?"

Amherst glanced at Wyant without moving. "Go," he said curtly.

Wyant, instead, moved a step nearer. "Just a minute, please. It's only fair to hear my side.
Your wife says there was no hope; yet the day before she...gave the dose, Dr. Garford told
her in my presence that Mrs. Amherst might live."

Again Amherst's eyes addressed themselves slowly to Justine; and she forced her lips to articulate
an answer.

"Dr. Garford said...one could never tell...but I know he didn't believe in the chance of recovery...no
one did."

"Dr. Garford is dead," said Wyant grimly.

Amherst strode up to him again. "You scoundrel--leave the house!" he commanded.

But still Wyant sneeringly stood his ground. "Not till I've finished. I can't afford to let
myself be kicked out like a dog because I happen to be in the way. Every doctor knows that
in cases of spinal lesion recovery is becoming more and more frequent--if the patient survives
the third week there's every reason to hope. Those are the facts as they would appear to any
surgeon. If they're not true, why is Mrs. Amherst afraid of having them stated? Why has she
been paying me for nearly a year to keep them quiet?"

"Oh----" Justine moaned.

"I never thought of talking till luck went against me. Then I asked her for help--and reminded
her of certain things. After that she kept me supplied pretty regularly." He thrust his shaking
hand into an inner pocket. "Here are her envelopes...Quebec...Montreal...Saranac...I know just
where you went on your honeymoon. She had to write often, because the sums were small. Why
did she do it, if she wasn't afraid? And why did she go upstairs just now to fetch me something?
If you don't believe me, ask her what she's got in her hand."

Amherst did not heed this injunction. He stood motionless, gripping the back of a chair, as
if his next gesture might be to lift and hurl it at the speaker.

"Ask her----" Wyant repeated.

Amherst turned his head slowly, and his dull gaze rested on his wife. His face looked years
older--lips and eyes moved as heavily as an old man's.

As he looked at her, Justine came forward without speaking, and laid the little morocco case
in his hand. He held it there a moment, as if hardly understanding her action--then he tossed
it on the table at his elbow, and walked up to Wyant.

"You hound," he said--"now go!"

XXXVI

WHEN Wyant had left the room, and the house-door had closed on him, Amherst spoke to his wife.

"Come upstairs," he said.

Justine followed him, scarcely conscious where she went, but moving already with a lighter
tread. Part of her weight of misery had been lifted with Wyant's going. She had suffered less
from the fear of what her husband might think than from the shame of making her avowal in her
defamer's presence. And her faith in Amherst's comprehension had begun to revive. He had dismissed
Wyant with scorn and horror--did not that show that he was on her side already? And how many
more arguments she had at her call! Her brain hummed with them as she followed him up the stairs.

In her bedroom he closed the door and stood motionless, the same heavy half-paralyzed look
on his face. It frightened her and she went up to him.

"John!" she said timidly.

He put his hand to his head. "Wait a moment----" he returned; and she waited, her heart slowly
sinking again.

The moment over, he seemed to recover his power of movement. He crossed the room and threw
himself into the armchair near the hearth.

"Now tell me everything."

He sat thrown back, his eyes fixed on the fire, and the vertical lines between his brows forming
a deep scar in his white face.

Justine moved nearer, and touched his arm beseechingly. "Won't you look at me?"

He turned his head slowly, as if with an effort, and his eyes rested reluctantly on hers.

"Oh, not like that!" she exclaimed.

He seemed to make a stronger effort at self-control. "Please don't heed me--but say what there
is to say," he said in a level voice, his gaze on the fire.

She stood before him, her arms hanging down, her clasped fingers twisting restlessly.

"I don't know that there is much to say--beyond what I've told you."

There was a slight sound in Amherst's throat, like the ghost of a derisive laugh. After another
interval he said: "I wish to hear exactly what happened."

She seated herself on the edge of a chair near by, bending forward, with hands interlocked
and arms extended on her knees--every line reaching out to him, as though her whole slight
body were an arrow winged with pleadings. It was a relief to speak at last, even face to face
with the stony image that sat in her husband's place; and she told her story, detail by detail,
omitting nothing, exaggerating nothing, speaking slowly, clearly, with precision, aware that
the bare facts were her strongest argument.

Amherst, as he listened, shifted his position once, raising his hand so that it screened his
face; and in that attitude he remained when she had ended.

As she waited for him to speak, Justine realized that her heart had been alive with tremulous
hopes. All through her narrative she had counted on a murmur of perception, an exclamation
of pity: she had felt sure of melting the stony image. But Amherst said no word.

At length he spoke, still without turning his head. "You have not told me why you kept this
from me."

A sob formed in her throat, and she had to wait to steady her voice.

"No--that was my wrong--my weakness. When I did it I never thought of being afraid to tell
you--I had talked it over with you in my own mind...so often...before...."

"Well?"

"Then--- when you came back it was harder...though I was still sure you would approve me."

"Why harder?"

"Because at first--at Lynbrook--I could not tell it all over, in detail, as I have now...it
was beyond human power...and without doing so, I couldn't make it all clear to you...and so
should only have added to your pain. If you had been there you would have done as I did....
I felt sure of that from the first. But coming afterward, you couldn't judge...no one who was
not there could judge...and I wanted to spare you...."

"And afterward?"

She had shrunk in advance from this question, and she could not answer it at once. To gain
time she echoed it. "Afterward?"

"Did it never occur to you, when we met later--when you first went to Mr. Langhope----"?

"To tell you then? No--because by that time I had come to see that I could never be quite sure
of making you understand. No one who was not there at the time could know what it was to see
her suffer."

"You thought it all over, then--decided definitely against telling me?"

"I did not have to think long. I felt I had done right--I still feel so--and I was sure you
would feel so, if you were in the same circumstances."

There was another pause. Then Amherst said: "And last September--at Hanaford?"

It was the word for which she had waited--the word of her inmost fears. She felt the blood
mount to her face.

"Did you see no difference--no special reason for telling me then?"

"Yes----" she faltered.

"Yet you said nothing."

"No."

Silence again. Her eyes strayed to the clock, and some dim association of ideas told her that
Cicely would soon be coming in.

"Why did you say nothing?"

He lowered his hand and turned toward her as he spoke; and she looked up and faced him.

"Because I regarded the question as settled. I had decided it in my own mind months before,
and had never regretted my decision. I should have thought it morbid...unnatural...to go over
the whole subject again...to let it affect a situation that had come about...so much later...so
unexpectedly."

"Did you never feel that, later, if I came to know--if others came to know--it might be difficult----?"

"No; for I didn't care for the others--and I believed that, whatever your own feelings were,
you would know I had done what I thought right."

She spoke the words proudly, strongly, and for the first time the hard lines of his face relaxed,
and a slight tremor crossed it.

"If you believed this, why have you been letting that cur blackmail you?"

"Because when he began I saw for the first time that what I had done might be turned against
me by--by those who disliked our marriage. And I was afraid for my happiness. That was my weakness...it
is what I am suffering for now."

"Suffering!" he echoed ironically, as though she had presumed to apply to herself a word of
which he had the grim monopoly. He rose and took a few aimless steps; then he halted before her.

"That day--last month--when you asked me for money...was it...?"

"Yes----" she said, her head sinking.

He laughed. "You couldn't tell me--but you could use my money to bribe that fellow to conspire
with you!"

"I had none of my own."

"No--nor I either! You used her money.--God!" he groaned, turning away with clenched hands.

Justine had risen also, and she stood motionless, her hands clasped against her breast, in
the drawn shrinking attitude of a fugitive overtaken by a blinding storm. He moved back to
her with an appealing gesture.

"And you didn't see--it didn't occur to you--that your doing...as you did...was an obstacle--an
insurmountable obstacle--to our ever ...?"

She cut him short with an indignant cry. "No! No! for it was not. How could it have anything
to do with what...came after...with you or me? I did it only for Bessy--it concerned only Bessy!"

"Ah, don't name her!" broke from him harshly, and she drew back, cut to the heart.

There was another pause, during which he seemed to fall into a kind of dazed irresolution,
his head on his breast, as though unconscious of her presence. Then he roused himself and went
to the door.

As he passed her she sprang after him. "John--John! Is that all you have to say?"

"What more is there?"

"What more? Everything!--What right have you to turn from me as if I were a murderess? I did
nothing but what your own reason, your own arguments, have justified a hundred times! I made
a mistake in not telling you at once--but a mistake is not a crime. It can't be your real feeling
that turns you from me--it must be the dread of what other people would think! But when have
you cared for what other people thought? When have your own actions been governed by it?"

He moved another step without speaking, and she caught him by the arm. "No! you sha'n't go--not
like that!--Wait!"

She turned and crossed the room. On the lower shelf of the little table by her bed a few books
were ranged: she stooped and drew one hurriedly forth, opening it at the fly-leaf as she went
back to Amherst.

"There--read that. The book was at Lynbrook--in your room--and I came across it by chance the
very day...."

It was the little volume of Bacon which she was thrusting at him. He took it with a bewildered
look, as if scarcely following what she said.

"Read it--read it!" she commanded; and mechanically he read out the words he had written.

Justine watched him with panting lips, her knees trembling under her. "But you wrote it--you
wrote it! I thought you meant it!" she cried, as the book spun across a table and dropped to
the floor.

He looked at her coldly, almost apprehensively, as if she had grown suddenly dangerous and
remote; then he turned and walked out of the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

The striking of the clock roused her. She rose to her feet, rang the bell, and told the maid,
through the door, that she had a headache, and was unable to see Miss Cicely. Then she turned
back into the room, and darkness closed on her. She was not the kind to take grief passively--it
drove her in anguished pacings up and down the floor. She walked and walked till her legs flagged
under her; then she dropped stupidly into the chair where Amherst had sat....

All her world had crumbled about her. It was as if some law of mental gravity had been mysteriously
suspended, and every firmly-anchored conviction, every accepted process of reasoning, spun
disconnectedly through space. Amherst had not understood her--worse still, he had judged her
as the world might judge her! The core of her misery was there. With terrible clearness she
saw the suspicion that had crossed his mind--the suspicion that she had kept silence in the
beginning because she loved him, and feared to lose him if she spoke.

And what if it were true? What if her unconscious guilt went back even farther than his thought
dared to track it? She could not now recall a time when she had not loved him. Every chance
meeting with him, from their first brief talk at Hanaford, stood out embossed and glowing against
the blur of lesser memories. Was it possible that she had loved him during Bessy's life--that
she had even, sub-consciously, blindly, been urged by her feeling for him to perform the act?

But she shook herself free from this morbid horror--the rebound of health was always prompt
in her, and her mind instinctively rejected every form of moral poison. No! Her motive had
been normal, sane and justifiable--completely justifiable. Her fault lay in having dared to
rise above conventional restrictions, her mistake in believing that her husband could rise
with her. These reflections steadied her but they did not bring much comfort. For her whole
life was centred in Amherst, and she saw that he would never be able to free himself from the
traditional view of her act. In looking back, and correcting her survey of his character in
the revealing light of the last hours, she perceived that, like many men of emancipated thought,
he had remained subject to the old conventions of feeling. And he had probably never given
much thought to women till he met her--had always been content to deal with them in the accepted
currency of sentiment. After all, it was the currency they liked best, and for which they offered
their prettiest wares!

But what of the intellectual accord between himself and her? She had not been deceived in that!
He and she had really been wedded in mind as well as in heart. But until now there had not
arisen in their lives one of those searching questions which call into play emotions rooted
far below reason and judgment, in the dark primal depths of inherited feeling. It is easy to
judge impersonal problems intellectually, turning on them the full light of acquired knowledge;
but too often one must still grope one's way through the personal difficulty by the dim taper
carried in long-dead hands....

But was there then no hope of lifting one's individual life to a clearer height of conduct?
Must one be content to think for the race, and to feel only--feel blindly and incoherently--for
one's self? And was it not from such natures as Amherst's--natures in which independence of
judgment was blent with strong human sympathy--that the liberating impulse should come?

Her mind grew weary of revolving in this vain circle of questions. The fact was that, in their
particular case, Amherst had not risen above prejudice and emotion; that, though her act was
one to which his intellectual sanction was given, he had turned from her with instinctive repugnance,
had dishonoured her by the most wounding suspicions. The tie between them was forever stained
and debased.

Justine's long hospital-discipline made it impossible for her to lose consciousness of the
lapse of time, or to let her misery thicken into mental stupor. She could not help thinking
and moving; and she presently lifted herself to her feet, turned on the light, and began to
prepare for dinner. It would be terrible to face her husband across Mr. Langhope's pretty dinner-table,
and afterward in the charming drawing-room, with its delicate old ornaments and intimate luxurious
furniture; but she could not continue to sit motionless in the dark: it was her innermost instinct
to pick herself up and go on.

While she dressed she listened anxiously for Amherst's step in the next room; but there was
no sound, and when she dragged herself downstairs the drawing-room was empty, and the parlour-maid,
after a decent delay, came to ask if dinner should be postponed.

She said no, murmuring some vague pretext for her husband's absence, and sitting alone through
the succession of courses which composed the brief but carefully-studied menu. When this ordeal
was over she returned to the drawing-room and took up a book. It chanced to be a new volume
on labour problems, which Amherst must have brought back with him from Westmore; and it carried
her thoughts instantly to the mills. Would this disaster poison their work there as well as
their personal relation? Would he think of her as carrying contamination even into the task
their love had illumined?

The hours went on without his returning, and at length it occurred to her that he might have
taken the night train to Hanaford. Her heart contracted at the thought: she remembered--though
every nerve shrank from the analogy--his sudden flight at another crisis in his life, and she
felt obscurely that if he escaped from her now she would never recover her hold on him. But
could he be so cruel--could he wish any one to suffer as she was suffering?

At ten o'clock she could endure the drawing-room no longer, and went up to her room again.
She undressed slowly, trying to prolong the process as much as possible, to put off the period
of silence and inaction which would close in on her when she lay down on her bed. But at length
the dreaded moment came--there was nothing more between her and the night. She crept into bed
and put out the light; but as she slipped between the cold sheets a trembling seized her, and
after a moment she drew on her dressing-gown again and groped her way to the lounge by the fire.

She pushed the lounge closer to the hearth and lay down, still shivering, though she had drawn
the quilted coverlet up to her chin. She lay there a long time, with closed eyes, in a mental
darkness torn by sudden flashes of memory. In one of these flashes a phrase of Amherst's stood
out--a word spoken at Westmore, on the day of the opening of the Emergency Hospital, about
a good-looking young man who had called to see her. She remembered Amherst's boyish burst of
jealousy, his sudden relief at the thought that the visitor might have been Wyant. And no doubt
it was Wyant--Wyant who had come to Hanaford to threaten her, and who, baffled by her non-arrival,
or for some other unexplained reason, had left again without carrying out his purpose.

It was dreadful to think by how slight a chance her first draught of happiness had escaped
that drop of poison; yet, when she understood, her inward cry was: "If it had happened, my
dearest need not have suffered!"... Already she was feeling Amherst's pain more than her own,
understanding that it was harder to bear than hers because it was at war with all the reflective
part of his nature.

As she lay there, her face pressed into the cushions, she heard a sound through the silent
house--the opening and closing of the outer door. She turned cold, and lay listening with strained
ears.... Yes; now there was a step on the stairs--her husband's step! She heard him turn into
his own room. The throbs of her heart almost deafened her--she only distinguished confusedly
that he was moving about within, so close that it was as if she felt his touch. Then her door
opened and he entered.

He stumbled slightly in the darkness before he found the switch of the lamp; and as he bent
over it she saw that his face was flushed, and that his eyes had an excited light which, in
any one less abstemious, might almost have seemed like the effect of wine.

"Are you awake?" he asked.

She started up against the cushions, her black hair streaming about her small ghostly face.

"Yes."

He walked over to the lounge and dropped into the low chair beside it.

"I've given that cur a lesson he won't forget," he exclaimed, breathing hard, the redness deepening
in his face.

She turned on him in joy and trembling. "John!--Oh, John! You didn't follow him? Oh, what happened?
What have you done?"

"No. I didn't follow him. But there are some things that even the powers above can't stand.
And so they managed to let me run across him--by the merest accident--and I gave him something
to remember."

He spoke in a strong clear voice that had a brightness like the brightness in his eyes. She
felt its heat in her veins--the primitive woman in her glowed at contact with the primitive
man. But reflection chilled her the next moment.

"But why--why? Oh, how could you? Where did it happen--oh, not in the street?"

As she questioned him, there rose before her the terrified vision of a crowd gathering--the
police, newspapers, a hideous publicity. He must have been mad to do it--and yet he must have
done it because he loved her!

"No--no. Don't be afraid. The powers looked after that too. There was no one about--and I don't
think he'll talk much about it."

She trembled, fearing yet adoring him. Nothing could have been more unlike the Amherst she
fancied she knew than this act of irrational anger which had magically lifted the darkness
from his spirit; yet, magically also, it gave him back to her, made them one flesh once more.
And suddenly the pressure of opposed emotions became too strong, and she burst into tears.

She wept painfully, violently, with the resistance of strong natures unused to emotional expression;
till at length, through the tumult of her tears, she felt her husband's reassuring touch.

"Justine," he said, speaking once more in his natural voice.

She raised her face from her hands, and they looked at each other.

"Justine--this afternoon--I said things I didn't mean to say."

Her lips parted, but her throat was still full of sobs, and she could only look at him while
the tears ran down.

"I believe I understand now," he continued, in the same quiet tone.

Her hand shrank from his clasp, and she began to tremble again. "Oh, if you only believe...if
you're not sure...don't pretend to be!"

He sat down beside her and drew her into his arms. "I am sure," he whispered, holding her close,
and pressing his lips against her face and hair.

"Oh, my husband--my husband! You've come back to me?"

He answered her with more kisses, murmuring through them: "Poor child--poor child--poor Justine...."
while he held her fast.

With her face against him she yielded to the childish luxury of murmuring out unjustified fears.
"I was afraid you had gone back to Hanaford----"

"Tonight? To Hanaford?"

"To tell your mother."

She felt a contraction of the arm embracing her, as though a throb of pain had stiffened it.

"I shall never tell any one," he said abruptly; but as he felt in her a responsive shrinking
he gathered her close again, whispering through the hair that fell about her cheek: "Don't
talk, dear...let us never talk of it again...." And in the clasp of his arms her terror and
anguish subsided, giving way, not to the deep peace of tranquillized thought, but to a confused
well-being that lulled all thought to sleep.

XXXVII

BUT thought could never be long silent between them; and Justine's triumph lasted but a day.

With its end she saw what it had been made of: the ascendency of youth and sex over his subjugated
judgment. Her first impulse was to try and maintain it--why not use the protective arts with
which love inspired her? She who lived so keenly in the brain could live as intensely in her
feelings; her quick imagination tutored her looks and words, taught her the spells to weave
about shorn giants. And for a few days she and Amherst lost themselves in this self-evoked
cloud of passion, both clinging fast to the visible, the palpable in their relation, as if
conscious already that its finer essence had fled.

Amherst made no allusion to what had passed, asked for no details, offered no reassurances--behaved
as if the whole episode had been effaced from his mind. And from Wyant there came no sound:
he seemed to have disappeared from life as he had from their talk.

Toward the end of the week Amherst announced that he must return to Hanaford; and Justine at
once declared her intention of going with him.

He seemed surprised, disconcerted almost; and for the first time the shadow of what had happened
fell visibly between them.

"But ought you to leave Cicely before Mr. Langhope comes back?" he suggested.

"He will be here in two days."

"But he will expect to find you."

"It is almost the first of April. We are to have Cicely with us for the summer. There is no
reason why I should not go back to my work at Westmore."

There was in fact no reason that he could produce; and the next day they returned to Hanaford
together.

With her perceptions strung to the last pitch of sensitiveness, she felt a change in Amherst
as soon as they re-entered Bessy's house. He was still scrupulously considerate, almost too
scrupulously tender; but with a tinge of lassitude, like a man who tries to keep up under the
stupefying approach of illness. And she began to hate the power by which she held him. It was
not thus they had once walked together, free in mind though so linked in habit and feeling;
when their love was not a deadening drug but a vivifying element that cleared thought instead
of stifling it. There were moments when she felt that open alienation would be easier, because
it would be nearer the truth. And at such moments she longed to speak, to beg him to utter
his mind, to go with her once for all into the depths of the subject they continued to avoid.
But at the last her heart always failed her: she could not face the thought of losing him,
of hearing him speak estranging words to her.

They had been at Hanaford for about ten days when, one morning at breakfast, Amherst uttered
a sudden exclamation over a letter he was reading.

"What is it?" she asked in a tremor.

He had grown very pale, and was pushing the hair from his forehead with the gesture habitual
to him in moments of painful indecision.

"What is it?" Justine repeated, her fear growing.

"Nothing----" he began, thrusting the letter under the pile of envelopes by his plate; but
she continued to look at him anxiously, till she drew his eyes to hers.

"Mr. Langhope writes that they've appointed Wyant to Saint Christopher's," he said abruptly.

"Oh, the letter--we forgot the letter!" she cried.

"Yes--we forgot the letter."

"But how dare he----?"

Amherst said nothing, but the long silence between them seemed full of ironic answers, till
she brought out, hardly above her breath: "What shall you do?"

"Write at once--tell Mr. Langhope he's not fit for the place."

"Of course----" she murmured.

He went on tearing open his other letters, and glancing at their contents. She leaned back
in her chair, her cup of coffee untasted, listening to the recurrent crackle of torn paper
as he tossed aside one letter after another.

Presently he rose from his seat, and as she followed him from the dining-room she noticed that
his breakfast had also remained untasted. He gathered up his letters and walked toward the
smoking-room; and after a moment's hesitation she joined him.

"John," she said from the threshold.

He was just seating himself at his desk, but he turned to her with an obvious effort at kindness
which made the set look of his face the more marked.

She closed the door and went up to him.

"If you write that to Mr. Langhope--Dr. Wyant will--will tell him," she said.

"Yes--we must be prepared for that."

She was silent, and Amherst flung himself down on the leather ottoman against the wall. She
stood before him, clasping and unclasping her hands in speechless distress.

"What would you have me do?" he asked at length, almost irritably.

"I only thought...he told me he would keep straight...if he only had a chance," she faltered out.

Amherst lifted his head slowly, and looked at her. "You mean--I am to do nothing? Is that it?"

She moved nearer to him with beseeching eyes. "I can't bear it.... I can't bear that others
should come between us," she broke out passionately.

He made no answer, but she could see a look of suffering cross his face, and coming still closer,
she sank down on the ottoman, laying her hand on his. "John...oh, John, spare me," she whispered.

For a moment his hand lay quiet under hers; then he drew it out, and enclosed her trembling
fingers.

"Very well--I'll give him a chance--I'll do nothing," he said, suddenly putting his other arm
about her.

The reaction caught her by the throat, forcing out a dry sob or two; and as she pressed her
face against him he raised it up and gently kissed her.

But even as their lips met she felt that they were sealing a treaty with dishonour. That his
kiss should come to mean that to her! It was unbearable--worse than any personal pain--the
thought of dragging him down to falsehood through her weakness.

She drew back and rose to her feet, putting aside his detaining hand.

"No--no! What am I saying? It can't be--you must tell the truth." Her voice gathered strength
as she spoke. "Oh, forget what I said--I didn't mean it!"

But again he seemed sunk in inaction, like a man over whom some baneful lethargy is stealing.

"John--John--forget!" she repeated urgently.

He looked up at her. "You realize what it will mean?"

"Yes--I realize.... But it must be.... And it will make no difference between us...will it?"

"No--no. Why should it?" he answered apathetically.

"Then write--tell Mr. Langhope not to give him the place. I want it over."

He rose slowly to his feet, without looking at her again, and walked over to the desk. She
sank down on the ottoman and watched him with burning eyes while he drew forth a sheet of note-paper
and began to write.

But after he had written a few words he laid down his pen, and swung his chair about so that
he faced her.

"I can't do it in this way," he exclaimed.

"How then? What do you mean?" she said, starting up.

He looked at her. "Do you want the story to come from Wyant?"

"Oh----" She looked back at him with sudden insight. "You mean to tell Mr. Langhope yourself?"

"Yes. I mean to take the next train to town and tell him."

Her trembling increased so much that she had to rest her hands against the edge of the ottoman
to steady herself. "But if...if after all...Wyant should not speak?"

"Well--if he shouldn't? Could you bear to owe our safety to him?"

"Safety!"

"It comes to that, doesn't it, if we're afraid to speak?"

She sat silent, letting the bitter truth of this sink into her till it poured courage into
her veins.

"Yes--it comes to that," she confessed.

"Then you feel as I do?"

"That you must go----?"

"That this is intolerable!"

The words struck down her last illusion, and she rose and went over to the writing-table. "Yes--go,"
she said.

He stood up also, and took both her hands, not in a caress, but gravely, almost severely.

"Listen, Justine. You must understand exactly what this means--may mean. I am willing to go
on as we are now...as long as we can...because I love you...because I would do anything to
spare you pain. But if I speak I must say everything--I must follow this thing up to its uttermost
consequences. That's what I want to make clear to you."

Her heart sank with a foreboding of new peril. "What consequences?"

"Can't you see for yourself--when you look about this house?"

"This house----?"

He dropped her hands and took an abrupt turn across the room.

"I owe everything to her," he broke out, "all I am, all I have, all I have been able to give
you--and I must go and tell her father that you...."

"Stop--stop!" she cried, lifting her hands as if to keep off a blow.

"No--don't make me stop. We must face it," he said doggedly.

"But this--this isn't the truth! You put it as if--almost as if----"

"Yes--don't finish.--Has it occurred to you that he may think that?" Amherst asked with a terrible
laugh. But at that she recovered her courage, as she always did when an extreme call was made
on it.

"No--I don't believe it! If he does, it will be because you think it yourself...." Her voice
sank, and she lifted her hands and pressed them to her temples. "And if you think it, nothing
matters...one way or the other...." She paused, and her voice regained its strength. "That
is what I must face before you go: what you think, what you believe of me. You've never told
me that."

Amherst, at the challenge, remained silent, while a slow red crept to his cheek-bones.

"Haven't I told you by--by what I've done?" he said slowly.

"No--what you've done has covered up what you thought; and I've helped you cover it--I'm to
blame too! But it was not for this that we...that we had that half-year together...not to sink
into connivance and evasion! I don't want another hour of sham happiness. I want the truth
from you, whatever it is."

He stood motionless, staring moodily at the floor. "Don't you see that's my misery--that I
don't know myself?"

"You don't know...what you think of me?"

"Good God, Justine, why do you try to strip life naked? I don't know what's been going on in
me these last weeks----"

"You must know what you think of my motive...for doing what I did."

She saw in his face how he shrank from the least allusion to the act about which their torment
revolved. But he forced himself to raise his head and look at her. "I have never--for one moment--questioned
your motive--or failed to see that it was justified...under the circumstances...."

"Oh, John--John!" she broke out in the wild joy of hearing herself absolved; but the next instant
her subtle perceptions felt the unconscious reserve behind his admission.

"Your mind justifies me--not your heart; isn't that your misery?" she said.

