Due publication of the whole matter was made in the paper, and the popular assayer left town
"between two days."

I will remark, in passing, that I only remained in the milling business one week.  I told my
employer I could not stay longer without an advance in my wages; that I liked quartz milling,
indeed was infatuated with it; that I had never before grown so tenderly attached to an occupation
in so short a time; that nothing, it seemed to me, gave such scope to intellectual activity
as feeding a battery and screening tailings, and nothing so stimulated the moral attributes
as retorting bullion and washing blankets--still, I felt constrained to ask an increase of
salary. He said he was paying me ten dollars a week, and thought it a good round sum.  How
much did I want?  And yet, when I look back to those days and call to mind the exceeding hardness
of the labor I performed in that mill, I only regret that I did not ask him seven hundred thousand.

Shortly after this I began to grow crazy, along with the rest of the population, about the
mysterious and wonderful "cement mine," and to make preparations to take advantage of any opportunity
that might offer to go and help hunt for it.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

It was somewhere in the neighborhood of Mono Lake that the marvellous Whiteman cement mine
was supposed to lie.  Every now and then it would be reported that Mr. W. had passed stealthily
through Esmeralda at dead of night, in disguise, and then we would have a wild excitement--because
he must be steering for his secret mine, and now was the time to follow him. In less than three
hours after daylight all the horses and mules and donkeys in the vicinity would be bought,
hired or stolen, and half the community would be off for the mountains, following in the wake
of Whiteman.  But W. would drift about through the mountain gorges for days together, in a
purposeless sort of way, until the provisions of the miners ran out, and they would have to
go back home.  I have known it reported at eleven at night, in a large mining camp, that Whiteman
had just passed through, and in two hours the streets, so quiet before, would be swarming with
men and animals.  Every individual would be trying to be very secret, but yet venturing to
whisper to just one neighbor that W. had passed through.  And long before daylight--this in
the dead of Winter--the stampede would be complete, the camp deserted, and the whole population
gone chasing after W.

The tradition was that in the early immigration, more than twenty years ago, three young Germans,
brothers, who had survived an Indian massacre on the Plains, wandered on foot through the deserts,
avoiding all trails and roads, and simply holding a westerly direction and hoping to find California
before they starved, or died of fatigue.  And in a gorge in the mountains they sat down to
rest one day, when one of them noticed a curious vein of cement running along the ground, shot
full of lumps of dull yellow metal.  They saw that it was gold, and that here was a fortune
to be acquired in a single day.  The vein was about as wide as a curbstone, and fully two thirds
of it was pure gold.  Every pound of the wonderful cement was worth well-nigh $200.

Each of the brothers loaded himself with about twenty-five pounds of it, and then they covered
up all traces of the vein, made a rude drawing of the locality and the principal landmarks
in the vicinity, and started westward again.  But troubles thickened about them.  In their
wanderings one brother fell and broke his leg, and the others were obliged to go on and leave
him to die in the wilderness.  Another, worn out and starving, gave up by and by, and laid
down to die, but after two or three weeks of incredible hardships, the third reached the settlements
of California exhausted, sick, and his mind deranged by his sufferings.  He had thrown away
all his cement but a few fragments, but these were sufficient to set everybody wild with excitement.
However, he had had enough of the cement country, and nothing could induce him to lead a party
thither.  He was entirely content to work on a farm for wages.  But he gave Whiteman his map,
and described the cement region as well as he could and thus transferred the curse to that
gentleman--for when I had my one accidental glimpse of Mr. W. in Esmeralda he had been hunting
for the lost mine, in hunger and thirst, poverty and sickness, for twelve or thirteen years.
Some people believed he had found it, but most people believed he had not.  I saw a piece of
cement as large as my fist which was said to have been given to Whiteman by the young German,
and it was of a seductive nature.  Lumps of virgin gold were as thick in it as raisins in a
slice of fruit cake.  The privilege of working such a mine one week would be sufficient for
a man of reasonable desires.

A new partner of ours, a Mr. Higbie, knew Whiteman well by sight, and a friend of ours, a Mr.
Van Dorn, was well acquainted with him, and not only that, but had Whiteman's promise that
he should have a private hint in time to enable him to join the next cement expedition.  Van
Dorn had promised to extend the hint to us.  One evening Higbie came in greatly excited, and
said he felt certain he had recognized Whiteman, up town, disguised and in a pretended state
of intoxication.  In a little while Van Dorn arrived and confirmed the news; and so we gathered
in our cabin and with heads close together arranged our plans in impressive whispers.

We were to leave town quietly, after midnight, in two or three small parties, so as not to
attract attention, and meet at dawn on the "divide" overlooking Mono Lake, eight or nine miles
distant.  We were to make no noise after starting, and not speak above a whisper under any
circumstances.  It was believed that for once Whiteman's presence was unknown in the town and
his expedition unsuspected.  Our conclave broke up at nine o'clock, and we set about our preparation
diligently and with profound secrecy.  At eleven o'clock we saddled our horses, hitched them
with their long riatas (or lassos), and then brought out a side of bacon, a sack of beans,
a small sack of coffee, some sugar, a hundred pounds of flour in sacks, some tin cups and a
coffee pot, frying pan and some few other necessary articles.  All these things were "packed"
on the back of a led horse--and whoever has not been taught, by a Spanish adept, to pack an
animal, let him never hope to do the thing by natural smartness.  That is impossible.  Higbie
had had some experience, but was not perfect.  He put on the pack saddle (a thing like a saw-buck),
piled the property on it and then wound a rope all over and about it and under it, "every which
way," taking a hitch in it every now and then, and occasionally surging back on it till the
horse's sides sunk in and he gasped for breath--but every time the lashings grew tight in one
place they loosened in another. We never did get the load tight all over, but we got it so
that it would do, after a fashion, and then we started, in single file, close order, and without
a word.  It was a dark night.  We kept the middle of the road, and proceeded in a slow walk
past the rows of cabins, and whenever a miner came to his door I trembled for fear the light
would shine on us an excite curiosity.  But nothing happened.  We began the long winding ascent
of the canyon, toward the "divide," and presently the cabins began to grow infrequent, and
the intervals between them wider and wider, and then I began to breathe tolerably freely and
feel less like a thief and a murderer.  I was in the rear, leading the pack horse.  As the
ascent grew steeper he grew proportionately less satisfied with his cargo, and began to pull
back on his riata occasionally and delay progress.  My comrades were passing out of sight in
the gloom.  I was getting anxious.  I coaxed and bullied the pack horse till I presently got
him into a trot, and then the tin cups and pans strung about his person frightened him and
he ran. His riata was wound around the pummel of my saddle, and so, as he went by he dragged
me from my horse and the two animals traveled briskly on without me.  But I was not alone--the
loosened cargo tumbled overboard from the pack horse and fell close to me.  It was abreast
of almost the last cabin.

A miner came out and said:

"Hello!"

I was thirty steps from him, and knew he could not see me, it was so very dark in the shadow
of the mountain.  So I lay still.  Another head appeared in the light of the cabin door, and
presently the two men walked toward me.  They stopped within ten steps of me, and one said:

"Sh!  Listen."

I could not have been in a more distressed state if I had been escaping justice with a price
on my head.  Then the miners appeared to sit down on a boulder, though I could not see them
distinctly enough to be very sure what they did.  One said:

"I heard a noise, as plain as I ever heard anything.  It seemed to be about there--"

A stone whizzed by my head.  I flattened myself out in the dust like a postage stamp, and thought
to myself if he mended his aim ever so little he would probably hear another noise.  In my
heart, now, I execrated secret expeditions.  I promised myself that this should be my last,
though the Sierras were ribbed with cement veins.  Then one of the men said:

"I'll tell you what!  Welch knew what he was talking about when he said he saw Whiteman to-day.
I heard horses--that was the noise.  I am going down to Welch's, right away."

They left and I was glad.  I did not care whither they went, so they went.  I was willing they
should visit Welch, and the sooner the better.

As soon as they closed their cabin door my comrades emerged from the gloom; they had caught
the horses and were waiting for a clear coast again.  We remounted the cargo on the pack horse
and got under way, and as day broke we reached the "divide" and joined Van Dorn.  Then we journeyed
down into the valley of the Lake, and feeling secure, we halted to cook breakfast, for we were
tired and sleepy and hungry.  Three hours later the rest of the population filed over the "divide"
in a long procession, and drifted off out of sight around the borders of the Lake!

Whether or not my accident had produced this result we never knew, but at least one thing was
certain--the secret was out and Whiteman would not enter upon a search for the cement mine
this time.  We were filled with chagrin.

We held a council and decided to make the best of our misfortune and enjoy a week's holiday
on the borders of the curious Lake.  Mono, it is sometimes called, and sometimes the "Dead
Sea of California."  It is one of the strangest freaks of Nature to be found in any land, but
it is hardly ever mentioned in print and very seldom visited, because it lies away off the
usual routes of travel and besides is so difficult to get at that only men content to endure
the roughest life will consent to take upon themselves the discomforts of such a trip.  On
the morning of our second day, we traveled around to a remote and particularly wild spot on
the borders of the Lake, where a stream of fresh, ice-cold water entered it from the mountain
side, and then we went regularly into camp.  We hired a large boat and two shot-guns from a
lonely ranchman who lived some ten miles further on, and made ready for comfort and recreation.
We soon got thoroughly acquainted with the Lake and all its peculiarities.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Mono Lake lies in a lifeless, treeless, hideous desert, eight thousand feet above the level
of the sea, and is guarded by mountains two thousand feet higher, whose summits are always
clothed in clouds.  This solemn, silent, sail-less sea--this lonely tenant of the loneliest
spot on earth --is little graced with the picturesque.  It is an unpretending expanse of grayish
water, about a hundred miles in circumference, with two islands in its centre, mere upheavals
of rent and scorched and blistered lava, snowed over with gray banks and drifts of pumice-stone
and ashes, the winding sheet of the dead volcano, whose vast crater the lake has seized upon
and occupied.

The lake is two hundred feet deep, and its sluggish waters are so strong with alkali that if
you only dip the most hopelessly soiled garment into them once or twice, and wring it out,
it will be found as clean as if it had been through the ablest of washerwomen's hands.  While
we camped there our laundry work was easy.  We tied the week's washing astern of our boat,
and sailed a quarter of a mile, and the job was complete, all to the wringing out.  If we threw
the water on our heads and gave them a rub or so, the white lather would pile up three inches
high.  This water is not good for bruised places and abrasions of the skin.  We had a valuable
dog.  He had raw places on him.  He had more raw places on him than sound ones.  He was the
rawest dog I almost ever saw.  He jumped overboard one day to get away from the flies.  But
it was bad judgment. In his condition, it would have been just as comfortable to jump into
the fire.

The alkali water nipped him in all the raw places simultaneously, and he struck out for the
shore with considerable interest.  He yelped and barked and howled as he went--and by the time
he got to the shore there was no bark to him--for he had barked the bark all out of his inside,
and the alkali water had cleaned the bark all off his outside, and he probably wished he had
never embarked in any such enterprise.  He ran round and round in a circle, and pawed  the
earth and clawed the air, and threw double somersaults, sometimes backward and sometimes forward,
in the most extraordinary manner.  He was not a demonstrative dog, as a general thing, but
rather of a grave and serious turn of mind, and I never saw him take so much interest in anything
before.  He finally struck out over the mountains, at a gait which we estimated at about two
hundred and fifty miles an hour, and he is going yet.  This was about nine years ago.  We look
for what is left of him along here every day.

A white man cannot drink the water of Mono Lake, for it is nearly pure lye.  It is said that
the Indians in the vicinity drink it sometimes, though.  It is not improbable, for they are
among the purest liars I ever saw.  [There will be no additional charge for this joke, except
to parties requiring an explanation of it.  This joke has received high commendation from some
of the ablest minds of the age.]

There are no fish in Mono Lake--no frogs, no snakes, no polliwigs --nothing, in fact, that
goes to make life desirable.  Millions of wild ducks and sea-gulls swim about the surface,
but no living thing exists under the surface, except a white feathery sort of worm, one half
an inch long, which looks like a bit of white thread frayed out at the sides.  If you dip up
a gallon of water, you will get about fifteen thousand of these.  They give to the water a
sort of grayish-white appearance.  Then there is a fly, which looks something like our house
fly.  These settle on the beach to eat the worms that wash ashore--and any time, you can see
there a belt of flies an inch deep and six feet wide, and this belt extends clear around the
lake--a belt of flies one hundred miles long. If you throw a stone among them, they swarm up
so thick that they look dense, like a cloud.  You can hold them under water as long as you
please--they do not mind it--they are only proud of it.  When you let them go, they pop up
to the surface as dry as a patent office report, and walk off as unconcernedly as if they had
been educated especially with a view to affording instructive entertainment to man in that
particular way.  Providence leaves nothing to go by chance.  All things have their uses and
their part and proper place in Nature's economy: the ducks eat the flies--the flies eat the
worms--the Indians eat all three--the wild cats eat the Indians--the white folks eat the wild
cats--and thus all things are lovely.

Mono Lake is a hundred miles in a straight line from the ocean--and between it and the ocean
are one or two ranges of mountains--yet thousands of sea-gulls go there every season to lay
their eggs and rear their young.  One would as soon expect to find sea-gulls in Kansas. And
in this connection let us observe another instance of Nature's wisdom.  The islands in the
lake being merely huge masses of lava, coated over with ashes and pumice-stone, and utterly
innocent of vegetation or anything that would burn; and sea-gull's eggs being entirely useless
to anybody unless they be cooked, Nature has provided an unfailing spring of boiling water
on the largest island, and you can put your eggs in there, and in four minutes you can boil
them as hard as any statement I have made during the past fifteen years.  Within ten feet of
the boiling spring is a spring of pure cold water, sweet and wholesome.

So, in that island you get your board and washing free of charge--and if nature had gone further
and furnished a nice American hotel clerk who was crusty and disobliging, and didn't know anything
about the time tables, or the railroad routes--or--anything--and was proud of it--I would not
wish for a more desirable boarding-house.

Half a dozen little mountain brooks flow into Mono Lake, but not a stream of any kind flows
out of it.  It neither rises nor falls, apparently, and what it does with its surplus water
is a dark and bloody mystery.

There are only two seasons in the region round about Mono Lake--and these are, the breaking
up of one Winter and the beginning of the next.  More than once (in Esmeralda) I have seen
a perfectly blistering morning open up with the thermometer at ninety degrees at eight o'clock,
and seen the snow fall fourteen inches deep and that same identical thermometer go down to
forty-four degrees under shelter, before nine o'clock at night. Under favorable circumstances
it snows at least once in every single month in the year, in the little town of Mono.  So uncertain
is the climate in Summer that a lady who goes out visiting cannot hope to be prepared for all
emergencies unless she takes her fan under one arm and her snow shoes under the other.  When
they have a Fourth of July procession it generally snows on them, and they do say that as a
general thing when a man calls for a brandy toddy there, the bar keeper chops it off with a
hatchet and wraps it up in a paper, like maple sugar.  And it is further reported that the
old soakers haven't any teeth--wore them out eating gin cocktails and brandy punches.  I do
not endorse that statement--I simply give it for what it is worth--and it is worth--well, I
should say, millions, to any man who can believe it without straining himself.  But I do endorse
the snow on the Fourth of July--because I know that to be true.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

