The Soviet had decided at its meeting on May 14th to participate in a Coalition Ministry. The
struggle upon that question between Bolsheviki and Mensheviki was long and bitter. The vote,
which was forty-one in favor of participation to nineteen against, probably fairly represented
the full strength of Bolshevism in its stronghold. After various conferences between Premier
Lvov and the other Ministers, on the one side, and representatives of the Soviet, on the other
side, a new Provisional Government was announced, with Prince Lvov again Prime Minister. In
the new Cabinet there were seven Constitutional Democrats, six Socialists, and two Octobrists.
As Minister of War and head of the army and navy Alexander Kerensky took the place of Guchkov,
while P.N. Pereverzev, a clever member of the Socialist-Revolutionary party, succeeded Kerensky
as Minister of Justice. In Miliukov's position at the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
was placed M.I. Terestchenko, a wealthy sugar-manufacturer, member of the Constitutional-Democratic
party, who had held the post of Minister of Finance, which was now given to A.I. Shingariev,
a brilliant member of the same party, who had proved his worth and capacity as Minister of
Agriculture. To the latter post was appointed V.M. Chernov, the leader of the Socialist-Revolutionists,
one of the most capable Socialists in Russia, or, for that matter, the world. Other Socialists
of distinction in the new Provisional Government were I.G. Tseretelli, as Minister of Posts
and Telegraphs, and M.I. Skobelev, as Minister of Labor. As Minister of Supply an independent
Socialist, A.V. Peshekhonov, was chosen.

It was a remarkable Cabinet. So far as the Socialists were concerned, it would have been difficult
to select worthier or abler representatives. As in the formation of the First Provisional Government,
attempts had been made to induce Tchcheidze to accept a position in the Cabinet, but without
success. He could not be induced to enter a Coalition Ministry, though he strongly and even
enthusiastically supported in the Soviet the motion to participate in such a Ministry. Apart
from the regret caused by Tchcheidze's decision, it was felt on every hand that the Socialists
had sent into the Second Provisional Government their strongest and most capable representatives;
men who possessed the qualities of statesmen and who would fill their posts with honorable
distinction and full loyalty. On the side of the Constitutional Democrats and the Octobrists,
too, there were men of sterling character, distinguished ability, and very liberal minds. The
selection of Terestchenko as Minister of Foreign Affairs was by many Socialists looked upon
with distrust, but, upon the whole, the Coalition Ministry met with warm approbation. If any
coalition of the sort could succeed, the Cabinet headed by Prince Lvov might be expected to do so.

On the 18th, the Petrograd Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates adopted a resolution,
introduced by Tchcheidze, president of the Council, warmly approving the entrance of the Socialist
Ministers into the Cabinet and accepting the declaration of the new Provisional Government
as satisfactory. This resolution was bitterly opposed by the Bolsheviki, who were led in the
fight by Trotzky. This was Trotzky's first speech in Petrograd since his arrival the previous
day from America. His speech was a demagogic appeal against co-operation with any bourgeois
elements. Participation in the Coalition Ministry by the Socialists was a dangerous policy,
he argued, since it sacrificed the fundamental principle of class struggle. Elaborating his
views further, he said: "I never believed that the emancipation of the working class will come
from above. Division of power will not cease with the entrance of the Socialists into the Ministry.
A strong revolutionary power is necessary. The Russian Revolution will not perish. But I believe
only in a miracle from below. There are three commandments for the proletariat. They are: First,
transmission of power to the revolutionary people; second, control over their own leaders;
and third, confidence in their own revolutionary powers."

This was the beginning of Trotzky's warfare upon the Coalition Government, a warfare which
he afterward systematically waged with all his might. Tchcheidze and others effectively replied
to the Bolshevik leader's criticisms and after long and strenuous debate the resolution of
the Executive Committee presented by Tchcheidze was carried by a large majority, the opposition
only mustering seven votes. The resolution read as follows:

    Acknowledging that the declaration of the Provisional Government,
    which has been reconstructed and fortified by the entrance of
    representatives of the Revolutionary Democracy, conforms to the
    idea and purpose of strengthening the achievements of the
    Revolution and its further development, the Council of Workmen's
    and Soldiers' Delegates has determined:

    I. Representatives of the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers'
    Delegates must enter into the Provisional Government.

    II. Those representatives of the Council of Workmen's and
    Soldiers' Delegates who join the government must, until the
    creation of an All-Russian organ of the Council of Workmen's and
    Soldiers' Delegates, consider themselves responsible to the
    Petrograd Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates, and must
    pledge themselves to give accounts of all their activities to that
    Council.

    III. The Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates expresses
    its full confidence in the new Provisional Government, and urges
    all friends of democracy to give this government active
    assistance, which will insure it the full measure of power
    necessary for the safety of the Revolution's gains and for its
    further development.

If there is any one thing which may be said with certainty concerning the state of working-class
opinion in Russia at that time, two months after the overthrow of the old régime, it is that
the overwhelming majority of the working-people, both city workers and peasants, supported
the policy of the Mensheviki and the Socialist-Revolutionists--the policy of co-operating with
liberal bourgeois elements to win the war and create a stable government--as against the policy
of the Bolsheviki. The two votes of the Petrograd Soviet told where the city workers stood.
That very section of the proletariat upon which the Bolsheviki leaders based their hopes had
repudiated them in the most emphatic manner. The Delegates of the Soldiers at the Front had
shown that they would not follow the advice of the leaders of the Bolsheviki. And at the first
opportunity which presented itself the peasants placed themselves in definite opposition to
Bolshevism.

On the afternoon preceding the action of the Soviet in giving its indorsement to the new Provisional
Government and instructing its representatives to enter the Coalition Cabinet, there assembled
in the People's House, Petrograd, more than one thousand peasant delegates to the first All-Russian
Congress of Peasants. Never before had so many peasant delegates been gathered together in
Russia to consider their special problems. There were present delegates from every part of
Russia, even from the extreme border provinces, and many from the front. On the platform were
the members of the Organizing Committee, the Executive Committee of the Council of Workmen's
and Soldiers' Delegates, the Socialist-Revolutionary party, the Social Democratic party, and
a number of prominent Socialist leaders. As might be expected in a peasants' Congress, members
of the Socialist-Revolutionary party were in the majority, numbering 537. The next largest
group was the Social Democratic party, including Bolsheviki and Mensheviki, numbering 103.
There were 136 delegates described as non-partizan; 4 belonged to the group called the "People's
Socialists" and 6 to the Labor Group. It was the most representative body of peasant workers
ever brought together.

Among the first speakers to address the Congress was the venerable "Grandmother" of the Russian
Revolution, Catherine Breshkovskaya, who spoke with the freedom accorded to her and to her
alone. "Tell me," she demanded, "is there advantage to us in keeping our front on a war footing
and in allowing the people to sit in trenches with their hands folded and to die from fever,
scurvy, and all sorts of contagious diseases? If our army had a real desire to help the Allies,
the war would be finished in one or two months, but we are prolonging it by sitting with our
hands folded." V.M. Chernov, leader of the Socialist-Revolutionary party, the new Minister
of Agriculture, made a notable address in which he traversed with great skill and courage the
arguments of the Bolsheviki, making a superb defense of the policy of participation in the
government.

Kerensky, idol of the peasants, appearing for the first time as Minister of War and head of
the army and navy, made a vigorous plea for unity, for self-discipline, and for enthusiastic
support of the new Provisional Government. He did not mince matters: "I intend to establish
an iron discipline in the army. I am certain that I shall succeed in my undertaking, because
it will be a discipline based upon duty toward the country, the duty of honor.... By all means,
we must see that the country becomes free and strong enough to elect the Constituent Assembly,
the Assembly which, through its sovereign, absolute power, will give to the toiling Russian
peasants that for which they have been yearning for centuries, the land.... We are afraid of
no demagogues, whether they come from the right or from the left. We shall attend to our business,
quietly and firmly." Kerensky begged the peasants to assert their will that there should be
"no repetition of the sad events of 1905-06, when the entire country seemed already in our
hands, but slipped out because it became involved in anarchy." The speech created a profound
impression and it was voted to have it printed in millions of copies, at the expense of the
Congress, and have them distributed throughout the army.

A similar honor was accorded the speech of I.I. Bunakov, one of the best known and most popular
of the leaders of the Socialist-Revolutionary party. With remorseless logic he traversed the
arguments of the Bolsheviki and the Porazhentsi. Taking the cry that there must be "no annexations,"
for example, he declared that the peasants of Russia could only accept that in the sense that
Poland be reunited and her independence be restored; that the people of Alsace and Lorraine
be permitted to be reunited to France; that Armenia be taken from Turkey and made independent.
The peasants could not accept the status quo ante as a basis for peace. He assailed the treacherous
propaganda for a separate peace with terrific scorn: "But such peace is unacceptable to us
peasants. A separate peace would kill not only our Revolution, but the cause of social revolution
the world over. A separate peace is dishonor for Russia and treason toward the Allies.... We
must start an offensive. To remain in the trenches without moving is a separate truce, more
shameful even than a separate peace. A separate truce demoralizes the army and ruins the people.
This spring, according to our agreement with the Allies, we should have begun a general offensive,
but instead of that we have concluded a separate truce. The Allies saved the Russian Revolution,
but they are becoming exhausted.... When our Minister of War, Kerensky, speaks of starting
an offensive, the Russian army must support him with all its strength, with all the means available....
From here we should send our delegates to the front and urge our army to wage an offensive.
Let the army know that it must fight and die for Russia's freedom, for the peace of the whole
world, and for the coming Socialist commonwealth."

In the resolutions which were adopted the Congress confined itself to outlining a program for
the Constituent Assembly, urging the abolition of private property in land, forests, water-power,
mines, and mineral resources. It urged the Provisional Government to "issue an absolutely clear
and unequivocal statement which would show that on this question the Provisional Government
will allow nobody to oppose the people's will." It also issued a special appeal "to the peasants
and the whole wage-earning population of Russia" to vote at the forthcoming elections for the
Constituent Assembly, "only for those candidates who pledge themselves to advocate the nationalization
of the land without reimbursement on principles of equality." In the election for an Executive
Committee to carry on the work of the Congress and maintain the organization the delegates
with Bolshevist tendencies were "snowed under." Those who were elected were, practically without
exception, stalwart supporters of the policy of participation in and responsibility for the
Provisional Government, and known to be ardent believers in the Constituent Assembly. Chernov,
with 810 votes, led the poll; Breshkovskaya came next with 809; Kerensky came third with 804;
Avksentiev had 799; Bunakov 790; Vera Finger 776, and so on. Nineteenth on the list of thirty
elected came the venerable Nicholas Tchaykovsky, well known in America. Once more a great representative
body of Russian working-people had spoken and rejected the teachings and the advice of the
Bolsheviki.

VIII

As we have seen, it was with the authority and mandate of the overwhelming majority of the
organized workers that the Socialists entered the Coalition Ministry. It was with that mandate
that Kerensky undertook the Herculean task of restoring the discipline and morale of the Russian
army. In that work he was the agent and representative of the organized working class. For
this reason, if for no other, Kerensky and his associates were entitled to expect and to receive
the loyal support of all who professed loyalty to the working class. Instead of giving that
support, however, the Bolsheviki devoted themselves to the task of defeating every effort of
the Provisional Government to carry out its program, which, it must be borne in mind, had been
approved by the great mass of the organized workers. They availed themselves of every means
in their power to hamper Kerensky in his work and to hinder the organization of the economic
resources of the nation to sustain the military forces.

Kerensky had promised to organize preparations for a vigorous offensive against the Austro-German
forces. That such offensive was needed was obvious and was denied by none except the ultra-pacifists
and the Bolsheviki. The Congress of Soldiers' Delegates from the Front and the Petrograd Soviet
had specifically urged the need of such an offensive, as had most of the well-known peasants'
leaders. It was a working-class policy. But that fact did not prevent the Bolsheviki from throwing
obstacles in the way of its fulfilment. They carried on an active propaganda among the men
in the army and the navy, urging insubordination, fraternization, and refusal to fight. They
encouraged sabotage as a means of insuring the failure of the efforts of the Provisional Government.
So thoroughly did they play into the hands of the German military authorities, whether intentionally
or otherwise, that the charge of being in the pay of Germany was made against them--not by
prejudiced bourgeois politicians and journalists, but by the most responsible Socialists in Russia.

The epic story of Kerensky's magnificently heroic fight to recreate the Russian army is too
well known to need retelling here. Though it was vain and ended in failure, as it was foredoomed
to do, it must forever be remembered with gratitude and admiration by all friends of freedom.
The audacity and the courage with which Kerensky and a few loyal associates strove to maintain
Russia in the struggle made the Allied nations, and all the civilized world, their debtors.
Many mistakes were made, it is true, yet it is very doubtful if human beings could have achieved
more or succeeded where they failed. It must be confessed, furthermore, that the governments
of the nations with which they were allied made many grievous mistakes on their part.

Perhaps the greatest blunder that a discriminating posterity will charge to Kerensky's account
was the signing of the famous Declaration of Soldiers' Rights. This document, which was signed
on May 27th, can only be regarded in the light of a surrender to overpowering forces. In his
address to the All-Russian Congress of Peasants' Delegates, on May 18th, speaking for the first
time in his capacity as Minister of War, Kerensky had declared, "I intend to establish an iron
discipline in the army," yet the Declaration of Soldiers' Rights which he signed nine days
later was certain to make any real discipline impossible. Was it because he was inconsistent,
vacillating, and weak that Kerensky attached his name to such a document?

Such a judgment would be gravely unjust to a great man. The fact is that Kerensky's responsibility
was very small indeed. He and his Socialist associates in the Cabinet held their positions
by authority of the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates, and they had agreed to be
subject to its guidance and instruction. The Soviet was responsible for the Declaration of
Soldiers' Rights. Kerensky was acting under its orders. The Soviet had already struck a fatal
blow at military discipline by its famous Order Number One, which called on the soldiers not
to execute the orders of their officers unless the orders were first approved by the revolutionary
authorities--that is, by the Soviet or its accredited agents. That the order was prompted by
an intense love for revolutionary ideals, or that it was justified by the amount of treachery
which had been discovered among the officers of the army, may explain and even excuse it, but
the fact remains that it was a deadly blow at military discipline. The fact that Kerensky's
predecessor, Guchkov, had to appear at a convention of soldiers' delegates and explain and
defend his policies showed that discipline was at a low ebb. It brought the army into the arena
of politics and made questions of military strategy subject to political maneuvering.

The Declaration of Soldiers' Rights was a further step along a road which inevitably led to
disaster. That remarkable document provided that soldiers and officers of all ranks should
enjoy full civic and political rights; that they should be free to speak or write upon any
subject; that their correspondence should be uncensored; that while on duty they should be
free to receive any printed matter, books, papers, and so on, which they desired. It provided
for the abolition of the compulsory salute to officers; gave the private soldier the right
to discard his uniform when not actually on service and to leave barracks freely during "off-duty"
hours. Finally, it placed all matters pertaining to the management in the hands of elective
committees in the composition of which the men were to have four-fifths of the elective power
and the officers one-fifth.

Of course, the Declaration of Soldiers' Rights represented a violent reaction. Under the old
régime the army was a monstrously cruel machine; the soldiers were slaves. At the first opportunity
they had revolted and, as invariably happens, the pendulum had swung too far. On May 28th the
Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates issued a declaration in which it was said: "From
now on the soldier-citizen is free from the slavery of saluting, and as an equal, free person
will greet whomsoever he chooses.... Discipline in the Revolutionary Army will exist, prompted
by popular enthusiasm and the sense of duty toward the free country rather than by a slavish
salute." If we are tempted to laugh at this naïve idealism, we Americans will do well to remember
that it was an American statesman-idealist who believed that we could raise an army of a million
men overnight, and that a shrewd American capitalist-idealist sent forth a "peace ship" with
a motley crew of dreamers and disputers to end the greatest war in history.

IX

Throughout the first half of June, while arrangements for a big military offensive were being
made, and were causing Kerensky and the other Socialist Ministers to strain every nerve, Lenine,
Trotzky, Kamenev, Zinoviev, and other leaders of the Bolsheviki were as strenuously engaged
in denouncing the offensive and trying to make it impossible. Whatever gift or genius these
men possessed was devoted wholly to destruction and obstruction. The student will search in
vain among the multitude of records of meetings, conventions, debates, votes, and resolutions
for a single instance of participation in any constructive act, one positive service to the
soldiers at the front or the workers' families in need, by any Bolshevik leader. But they never
missed an opportunity to embarrass those who were engaged in such work, and by so doing add
to the burden that was already too heavy.

Lenine denounced the offensive against Germany as "an act of treason against the Socialist
International" and poured out the vials of his wrath against Kerensky, who was, as we know,
simply carrying out the decisions of the Soviet and other working-class organizations. Thus
we had the astonishing and tragic spectacle of one Socialist leader working with titanic energy
among the troops who had been betrayed and demoralized by the old régime, seeking to stir them
into action against the greatest militarist system in the world, while another Socialist leader
worked with might and main to defeat that attempt and to prevent the rehabilitation of the
demoralized army. And all the while the German General Staff gloated at every success of the
Bolsheviki. There was a regular system of communications between the irreconcilable revolutionists
and the German General Staff. In proof of this statement only one illustration need be offered,
though many such could be cited: At the All-Russian Congress of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates,
on June 22d, Kerensky read, in the presence of Lenine, a long message, signed by the commander-in-chief
of the German eastern front, sent by wireless in response to a declaration of certain delegates
of the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates.

At this session Lenine bitterly assailed the proposed offensive. He said that it was impossible
for either side to win a military victory, revamping all the defeatist arguments that were
familiar in every country. He minimized the loss which Russia had suffered at Germany's hands,
and the gains Germany had made in Belgium and northern France, pointing out that she had, on
the other hand, lost her colonies, which England would be very unlikely to give back unless
compelled to do so by other nations. Taunted with being in favor of a separate peace with Germany,
Lenine indignantly denied the accusation. "It is a lie," he cried. "Down with a separate peace!
We Russian revolutionists will never consent to it." He argued that there could be only one
policy for Socialists in any country--namely, to seize the occasion of war to overthrow the
capitalist-class rule in that country. No war entered into by a capitalist ruling class, regardless
what its motives, should be supported by Socialists. He argued that the adoption of his policy
by the Russian working class would stand ten times the chance of succeeding that the military
policy would have. The German working class would compel their government and the General Staff
to follow the example of Russia and make peace.

Kerensky was called upon to reply to Lenine. At the time when the restoration of the army required
all his attention and all his strength, it was necessary for Kerensky to attend innumerable
and well-nigh interminable debates and discussions to maintain stout resistance to the Bolshevik
offensive always being waged in the rear. That, of course, was part of the Bolshevist plan
of campaign. So Kerensky, wearied by his tremendous efforts to perform the task assigned him
by the workers, answered Lenine. His reply was a forensic masterpiece. He took the message
of the commander-in-chief of the German eastern front and hurled it at Lenine's head, figuratively
speaking, showing how Lenine's reasoning was paralleled in the German propaganda. With merciless
logic and incisive phrase he showed how the Bolsheviki were using the formula, "the self-determination
of nationalities," as the basis of a propaganda to bring about the dismemberment of Russia
and its reduction to a chaotic medley of small, helpless states. To Lenine's statements about
the readiness of the German working class to rebel, Kerensky made retort that Lenine should
have remained in Germany while on his way to Russia and preached his ideas there.

A few days earlier, at a session of the same Congress, Trotzky and Kamenev had made vigorous
assault upon the Coalition Government and upon the Socialist policy with reference thereto.
In view of what subsequently transpired, it is important to note that Trotzky made much of
the delay in calling together the Constituent Assembly: "The policy of continual postponement
and the detailed preparations for calling the Constituent Assembly is a false policy. It may
destroy even the very realization of the Constituent Assembly." This profession of concern
for the Constituent Assembly was hypocritical, dishonest, and insincere. He did not in the
least care about or believe in the Constituent Assembly, and had not done so at any time since
the First Revolution of 1905-06. His whole thought rejected such a democratic instrument. However,
he and his associates knew that the demand for a Constituent Assembly was almost universal,
and that to resist that demand was impossible. Their very obvious policy in the circumstances
was to try and force the holding of the Assembly prematurely, without adequate preparation,
and without affording an opportunity for a nation-wide electoral campaign. A hastily gathered,
badly organized Constituent Assembly would be a mob-gathering which could be easily stampeded
or controlled by a determined minority.

Trotzky assailed the Coalition Government with vitriolic passion. At the moment when it was
obvious to everybody that unity of effort was the only possible condition for the survival
of the Revolution, and that any division in the ranks of the revolutionists, no matter upon
what it might be based, must imperil the whole movement, he and all his Bolshevik colleagues
deliberately stirred up dissension. Even if their opposition to political union with non-proletarian
parties was right as the basis of a sound policy, to insist upon it at the moment of dire peril
was either treachery or madness. When a house is already on fire the only thing in order, the
only thing that can have the sanction of wisdom and honor, is to work to extinguish the fire.
It is obviously not the time to debate whether the house was properly built or whether mistakes
were made. Russia was a house on fire; the Bolsheviki insisted upon endless debating.

Kamenev followed Trotzky's lead in attacking the Coalition Government. In a subtle speech he
supported the idea of splitting Russia up into a large number of petty states, insisting that
the formula, "self-determination of peoples," applied to the separatist movement in the Ukraine.
He insisted that for the Russian working-people it was a matter of indifference whether the
Central Empires or the Entente nations won in the war. He argued that the only hope for the
Russian Revolution must be the support of the revolutionary proletariat in the other European
countries, particularly those adjacent to Russia: "If the revolutionary proletariat of Europe
fails to support the Russian Revolution the latter will be ruined. As that support is the only
guaranty of the safety of the Revolution, we cannot change our policy by discussing the question
of how much fraternizing will stimulate the awakening of the proletariat of Europe." In other
words, Kamenev was in the position of a desperate gambler who stakes his life and his all upon
one throw of the dice or one spin of the wheel.

It was in this manner that the Bolshevist leaders conspired to Russia's destruction. They were
absorbing the time and energies of the men who were really trying to do something, compelling
them to engage in numerous futile debates, to the neglect of their vitally important work,
debates, moreover, which could have no other effect than to weaken the nation. Further, they
were actively obstructing the work of the government. Thus Tseretelli, Kerensky, Skobelev,
and many others whose efforts might have saved the Revolution, were thwarted by men wholly
without a sense of responsibility. Lenine was shrieking for the arrest of capitalists because
they were capitalists, when it was obvious that the services of those same capitalists were
needed if the nation was to live. Later on, when confronted by the realities and responsibilities
of government, he availed himself of the special powers and training of the despised capitalists.
At this earlier period he was, as Tseretelli repeatedly reminded the workers, without any sense
of responsibility for the practical results of his propaganda. And that was equally true of
the Bolsheviki as a whole. They talked about sending "ultimatums" to the Allies, while the
whole system of national defense was falling to pieces. Tseretelli made the only reply it was
possible for a sane man to make:

"It is proposed that we speak to the Allies with ultimatums, but did those who made this silly
proposal think that this road might lead to the breaking of diplomatic relations with the Allies,
and to that very separate peace which is condemned by all factions among us? Did Lenine think
of the actual consequences of his proposal to arrest several dozen capitalists at this time?
Can the Bolsheviki guarantee that their road will lead us to the correct solution of the crisis?
No. If they guarantee this they do not know what they are doing and their guaranty is worthless.
The Bolshevik road can lead us only to one end, civil war."

Once more the good sense of the working class prevailed. By an overwhelming majority of votes
the Congress decided to uphold the Coalition Government and rejected the Bolshevik proposals.
The resolution adopted declared that "the passing over of all power to the bourgeoisie elements
would deal a blow at the revolutionary cause," but that equally the transfer of all power to
the Soviets would be disastrous to the Revolution, and "would greatly weaken her powers by
prematurely driving away from her elements which are still capable of serving her, and would
threaten the ruin of the Revolution." Therefore, having heard the explanations of the Socialist
Ministers and having full confidence in them, the Congress insisted that the Socialist Ministers
be solely responsible to the "plenipotentiary and representative organ of the whole organized
Revolutionary Democracy of Russia, which organ must be composed of the representatives of the
All-Russian Congress of Councils of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates, as well as of representatives
of the All-Russian Congress of Peasants' Delegates."

But in spite of the fact that the workers upon every opportunity repudiated their policies,
the Bolsheviki continued their tactics. Lenine, Trotzky, Tshitsherin, Zinoviev, and others
called upon the workers to stop working and to go out into the streets to demonstrate for peace.
The All-Russian Congress of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates issued an appeal to the workers
warning them not to heed the call of the Bolsheviki, which had been made at the "moment of
supreme danger." The appeal said:

    Comrades, in the name of millions of workers, peasants, and
    soldiers, we tell you, "Do not do that which you are called upon
    to do." At this dangerous moment you are called out into the
    streets to demand the overthrow of the Provisional Government, to
    whom the All-Russian Congress has just found it necessary to give
    its support. And those who are calling you cannot but know that
    out of your peaceful demonstrations bloodshed and chaos may
    result.... You are being called to a demonstration in favor of the
    Revolution, but we know that counter-revolutionists want to take
    advantage of your demonstration ... the counter-revolutionists are
    eagerly awaiting the moment when strife will develop in the ranks
    of the Revolutionary Democracy and enable them to crush the
    Revolution.

X

Not only in this way were the Bolsheviki recklessly attempting to thwart the efforts of the
Socialist Ministers to carry out the mandates of the majority of the working class of Russia,
but they were equally active in trying to secure the failure of the attempt to restore the
army. All through June the Bolshevik papers denounced the military offensive. In the ranks
of the army itself a persistent campaign against further fighting was carried on. The Duma
had voted, on June 17th, for an immediate offensive, and it was approved by the Petrograd Soviet.
The Provisional Government on that date published a Note to the Allied governments, requesting
a conference with a view to making a restatement of their war aims. These actions were approved
by the All-Russian Congress of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates, as was also the expulsion
from Russia of the Swiss Socialist, Robert Grimm, who was a notorious agent of the German Government.
Grimm, as is now well known, was acting under the orders of Hoffman, the Swiss Minister of
Foreign Affairs, and was trying to bring about a separate peace between Russia and Germany.
He was also intimately connected with the infamous "Parvus," the trusted Social Democrat who
was a spy and tool of the German Government. As always, the great majority of the representatives
of the actual working class of Russia took the sane course.

But the Bolsheviki were meanwhile holding mass meetings among the troops, preaching defeatism
and surrender and urging the soldiers not to obey the orders of "bourgeois" officers. The Provisional
Government was not blind to the peril of this propaganda, but it dared not attempt to end it
by force, conscious that any attempt to do so would provoke revolt which could not be stayed.
The Bolsheviki, unable to control the Workmen's and Soldiers' Council, sought in every possible
manner to weaken its influence and to discredit it. They conspired to overthrow the Provisional
Government. Their plot was to bring about an armed revolt on the 24th of June, when the All-Russian
Congress of Soviets would be in session. They planned to arrest the members of the Provisional
Government and assume full power. At the same time, all the soldiers at the front were to be
called on to leave the trenches. On the eve of the date when it was to be executed this plot
was divulged. There was treachery within their own ranks. The Bolshevik leaders humbly apologized
and promised to abandon their plans. Under other conditions the Provisional Government might
have refused to be satisfied with apologies, might have adopted far sterner measures, but it
was face to face with the bitter fact that the nation was drunk with the strong wine of freedom.
The time had not yet arrived when the masses could be expected to recognize the distinction
between liberty within the law and the license that leads always to tyranny. It takes time
and experience of freedom to teach the stern lesson that, as Rousseau has it, freedom comes
by way of self-imposed compulsions to be free.

The offensive which Kerensky had urged and planned began on July 1st and its initial success
was encouraging. It seemed as though the miracle of the restoration of the Russian army had
been achieved, despite everything. Here was an army whose killed and dead already amounted
to more than three million men,[20] an army which had suffered incredible hardships, again
going into battle with songs. On the 1st of July more than thirty-six thousand prisoners were
taken by the Russians on the southwestern front. Then came the tragic harvest of the Bolshevist
propaganda. In northeastern Galicia the 607th Russian Regiment left the trenches and forced
other units to do the same thing, opening a clear way for the German advance. Regiment after
regiment refused to obey orders. Officers were brutally murdered by their men. Along a front
of more than one hundred and fifty miles the Russians, greatly superior in numbers, retreated
without attempting to fight, while the enemy steadily advanced. This was made possible by the
agitation of the Bolsheviki, especially by the mutiny which they provoked among the troops
in the garrison at Petrograd. On the 17th of July, at the very time when the separatist movement
in the Ukraine, the resignation of the Constitutional Democrats from the government, and the
revolt and treachery among the troops had produced a grave crisis, seizing the opportunity
afforded by the general chaos, the Bolsheviki attempted to realize their aim of establishing
what they called a "dictatorship of the proletariat," but which was in reality the dictatorship
of a small part of the proletariat. There was no pretense that they represented a majority
of the proletariat, even. It was a desperate effort to impose the dictatorship of a small minority
of the proletariat upon the whole nation. For two days the revolt lasted, more than five hundred
men, women, and children being killed in the streets of Petrograd.

On the 20th Prince Lvov resigned as Premier. In the mean time the Bolshevist uprising had been
put down by Cossack troops and the leaders were in hiding. Kerensky stepped into Lvov's position
as Premier and continued to address himself to the task of bringing order out of the chaos.
There could not have been any selfish ambition in this; no place-hunter would have attempted
to bear the heavy burden Kerensky then assumed, especially with his knowledge of the seriousness
of the situation. He knew that the undertaking was practically hopeless, yet he determined
never to give up the struggle so long as there was a single thing to be done and his comrades
desired him to do it.[21]

There had been created a revolutionary body representing all the organized
workers, called the United Executive Committee of the All-Russian Councils
of Workmen's, Soldiers' and Peasants' Delegates, a body of more than three
hundred elected representatives of the various Soviets. They represented
the views of many millions. This body vigorously denounced the Bolsheviki
and rallied to the support of Kerensky and his colleagues. In a Manifesto
to the people the Bolsheviki were charged with responsibility for the blood
of all who had been slain in the uprising. On July 21st a second Manifesto
was issued by the Committee calling upon the workers to uphold the
government so long as the authorized representatives of the working class
determined that to be the proper course to follow. The charge that Lenine,
Zinoviev, Trotzky, and others were acting under German instructions and
receiving German money spread until it was upon almost every tongue in
Petrograd. On July 24th Gregory Alexinsky, a well-known Socialist, in his
paper, Bez Lisnih Slov, published a circumstantial story of German
intrigue in the Ukraine, revealed by one Yermolenko, an ensign in the 16th
Siberian Regiment, who had been sent to Russia by the German Government.
    In consequence, the Executive Committee considers it absolutely
    inadmissible that Lenine and Zinoviev should escape justice, and
    demands that the Bolsheviki faction immediately and categorically
    express its censure of the conduct of its leaders.

Later on, under the "terror," there was some pretense of an "investigation" of the charge that
Lenine and others had received German money, but there has never been a genuine investigation
so far as is known. Groups of Russian Socialists belonging to various parties and groups have
asked that a commission of well-known Socialists from the leading countries of Europe and from
the United States, furnished with reliable interpreters, be sent to Russia to make a thorough
investigation of the charge.

The United Executive Committee of the workers' organizations adopted a resolution demanding
that all members and all factions, and the members of all affiliated bodies, obey the mandate
of the majority, and that all majority decisions be absolutely obeyed. They took the position--too
late, alas!--that the will of the majority must be observed, since the only alternative was
the rule of the majority by the aggressive minority. Repressive measures against the Bolsheviki
were adopted by the Kerensky Cabinet with the full approval of the Committee. Some of the Bolshevik
papers were suppressed and the death penalty, which had been abolished at the very beginning
of the Revolution, was partially restored in that it was ordered that it should be applied
to traitors and deserters at the front. Lenine and Zinoviev were in hiding, but Trotzky, Kamenev,
Alexandra Kollontay, and many other noted Bolsheviki were imprisoned for a few days.

It was Kerensky's hope that by arranging for an early conference by the Allies, at which the
war aims would be restated in terms similar to those which President Wilson had employed, and
by definitely fixing the date for the Constituent Assembly elections, September 30th, while
sternly repressing the Bolsheviki, it might be possible to save Russia. But it was too late.
Despite his almost superhuman efforts, and the loyal support of the great majority of the Soviets,
he was defeated. Day after day conditions at the front grew worse. By the beginning of August
practically the whole of Galicia was in the hands of the Germans. Russian soldiers in large
numbers retreated before inferior numbers of Germans, refusing to strike a blow. Germans furnished
them with immense quantities of spirits, and an orgy of drunkenness took place. The red flag
was borne by debauched and drunken mobs. What a fate for the symbol of universal freedom and
human brotherhood!

It was a time of terrible strain and upheaval. Crisis followed upon crisis. Chernov resigned
his position as Minister of Agriculture. Kerensky resigned as Premier, but the members of the
Provisional Government by unanimous vote declined to accept the resignation. They called a
joint meeting of all the Cabinet, of leaders of all political parties, of the Duma, of the
Soviets of workers, peasants, and soldiers. At this meeting the whole critical situation was
discussed and all present joined in demanding that Kerensky continue in office. The political
parties represented were the Social Democrats, the Socialist-Revolutionists, the Democratic
Radicals, the Labor Union party, the Popular Socialists, and the Constitutional Democrats.
From these groups came an appeal which Kerensky could not deny. He said:

"In view of the evident impossibility of establishing, by means of a compromise between the
various political groups, Socialist as well as non-Socialist, a strong revolutionary government
... I was obliged to resign. Friday's conference, ... after a prolonged discussion, resulted
in the parties represented at the conference deciding to intrust me with the task of reconstructing
the government. Considering it impossible for me in the present circumstances, when defeat
without and disintegration within are threatening the country, to withdraw from the heavy task
which is now intrusted to me, I regard this task as an express order of the country to construct
a strong revolutionary government in the shortest possible time and in spite of all the obstacles
which might arise."

For the second time Kerensky was Premier at the head of a Coalition Ministry. No other government
was possible for Russia except a strong despotism. Theorists might debate the advisability
of such coalition, but the stern reality was that nothing else was possible. The leader of
the peasants, Chernov, returned to his old post as Minister of Agriculture and the Constitutional
Democrats took their share of the burden. There were six parties and groups in the new Cabinet,
four of them of various shades of Socialism and two of them liberal bourgeoisie. Never before,
perhaps, and certainly only rarely, if ever, have men essayed a heavier or more difficult task
than that which this new Provisional Government undertook.

Heroically Kerensky sought to make successful the efforts of General Kornilov, as commander-in-chief,
to restore order and discipline in the army, but it was too late. The disintegration had gone
too far. The measures which the Revolutionary Democracy had introduced into the army, in the
hope of realizing freedom, had reduced it to a wild mob. Officers were butchered by their men;
regiment after regiment deserted its post and, in some instances, attempted to make a separate
peace with the enemy, even offering to pay indemnities. Moreover, the industrial organization
of the country had been utterly demoralized. The manufacture of army supplies had fallen off
more than 60 per cent., with the result that the state of affairs was worse than in the most
corrupt period of the old régime.

XI

It became evident to the Provisional Government that something big and dramatic must be done,
without waiting for the results of the Constituent Assembly elections. Accordingly, it was
decided to call together a great extraordinary council, representing all classes and all parties,
to consider the situation and the best means of meeting it. The Extraordinary National Conference,
as it was called, was opened in Moscow, on August 26th, with more than fourteen hundred members
in attendance. Some of these members--principally those from the Soviets--had been elected
as delegates, but the others had been invited by the government and could not be said to speak
as authorized representatives. There were about one hundred and ninety men who had been members
of one or other of the Dumas; one hundred representatives of the peasants' Soviets and other
peasant organizations; about two hundred and thirty representatives of the Soviets of industrial
workers and of soldiers; more than three hundred from co-operatives; about one hundred and
eighty from the trade-unions; about one hundred and fifty from municipalities; one hundred
and fifty representatives of banks and industrial concerns, and about one hundred and twenty
from the Union of Zemstvos and Towns. It was a Conference more thoroughly representative of
Russia than any that had ever been held. There were, indeed, no representatives of the old
régime, and there were few representatives of the Bolsheviki. The former had no place in the
new Russia that was struggling for its existence; the repressive measures that had been found
necessary accounted for the scant representation of the latter.

It was to this Conference that President Wilson sent his famous message giving the assurance
of "every material and moral assistance" to the people and government of Russia. For three
days the great assembly debated and listened to speeches from men representing every section
of the country, every class, and every party. Kerensky, Tseretelli, Tchcheidze, Boublikov,
Plechanov, Kropotkin, Breshkovskaya, and others, spoke for the workers; General Kornilov and
General Kaledine spoke for the military command; Miliukov, Nekrasov, Guchkov, Maklakov, and
others spoke for the bourgeoisie. At times feeling ran high, as might have been expected, but
throughout the great gathering there was displayed a remarkable unanimity of feeling and immediate
purpose; a common resolve to support the Provisional Government, to re-establish discipline
in the army and navy, to remain loyal to the Allies, and reject with scorn all offers of a
separate peace, and to work for the success of the Constituent Assembly.

But, notwithstanding the unity upon these immediately vital points, the Moscow Conference showed
that there was still a great gulf between the classes, and that no matter how they might co-operate
to meet and overcome the peril that hung over the nation like the sword of Damocles, there
could be no unity in working out the great economic and social program which must be the basis
for the Social Democratic commonwealth which the workers sought to establish, and which the
bourgeois elements feared almost as much as they feared the triumph of Germany. In some respects
the Conference intensified class feeling and added to, instead of lessening, the civil strife.
The Bolsheviki were not slow to exploit this fact. They pointed to the Conference as evidence
of a desire on the part of the Socialist Ministers, and of the officials of the Soviets, to
compromise with the bourgeoisie. This propaganda had its effect and Bolshevism grew in consequence,
especially in Petrograd.

Then followed the disastrous military and political events which made it practically impossible
for the Kerensky government to stand. At the front the soldiers were still revolting, deserting,
and retreating. Kornilov was quite helpless. Germany began a new offensive, and on September
2d German armies crossed the Dvina near Riga. On September 3d Riga was surrendered to the Germans
in the most shameful manner and panic reigned in Petrograd. Then on the 9th came the revolt
of Kornilov against the Provisional Government and the vulgar quarrel between him and Kerensky.
Kornilov charged that the Provisional Government, under pressure from the Bolsheviki, was playing
into the hands of the German General Staff. Kerensky, backed by the rest of the Cabinet, ordered
Kornilov's removal, while Kornilov despatched a division of troops, drawn from the front, against
Petrograd.

It was a most disastrous conflict for which no adequate explanation can be found except in
the strained mental condition of all the principal parties concerned. In less strenuous times,
and in a calmer atmosphere, the two leaders, equally patriotic, would have found no difficulty
in removing misunderstandings. As things were, a mischievous intermediary, and two men suffering
the effects of a prolonged and intense nervous strain, provided all the elements of a disaster.
Kornilov's revolt was crushed without great trouble and with very little bloodshed, Kornilov
himself being arrested. The Soviets stood by the Provisional Government, for they saw in the
revolt the attempt to set up a personal dictatorship. Even the Bolsheviki were temporarily
sobered by the sudden appearance of the "man on horseback." Kerensky, by direction of his colleagues,
became commander-in-chief of the Russian armies. Always, it seemed, through every calamity,
all parties except the Bolsheviki agreed that he was the one man strong enough to undertake
the heaviest and hardest tasks.

Toward the end of September what may be termed the Kerensky régime entered upon its last phase.
For reasons which have been already set forth, the Bolsheviki kept up a bitter attack upon
the Provisional Government, and upon the official leaders of the Soviets, on account of the
Moscow Conference. They demanded that the United Executive Committee of the Soviets convoke
a new Conference. They contended that the Moscow Conference had been convoked by the government,
not by the Soviets, and that the United Executive Committee must act for the latter. The United
Executive Committee complied and summoned a new National Democratic Conference, which assembled
on September 27th. By this time, as a result of the exhaustion of the patience of many workers,
many of the Soviets had ceased to exist, while others existed on paper only. According to the
Izvestya Soveta, there had been more than eight hundred region organizations at one time, many
scores of which had disappeared. According to the same authority, the peasants were drawing
away from the Workers' and Soldiers' Soviets. The United Executive Committee, which had been
elected in June, was, of course, dominated by anti-Bolsheviki--that is, by Menshevik Social
Democrats and by Socialist-Revolutionists.

The Democratic Conference was not confined to the Soviets. It embraced delegates from Soviets
of peasants, soldiers, and industrial workers; from municipalities, from zemstvos, co-operatives,
and other organizations. It differed from the Moscow Conference principally in that the delegates
were elected and that it did not include so many representatives of the capitalist class. The
petty bourgeoisie was represented, but not the great capitalists. There were more than a thousand
members in attendance at this Democratic Conference, which was dominated by the most moderate
section of the Social Democrats. The Socialist-Revolutionists were not very numerous.

This Conference created another Coalition Cabinet, the last of the Kerensky régime. Kerensky
continued as Premier and as commander-in-chief of the army. There were in the Cabinet five
Social Democrats, two Socialist-Revolutionists, eight Constitutional Democrats, and two non-partisans.
It was therefore as far as its predecessors from meeting the standards insisted upon by many
radical Socialists, who, while not Bolsheviki, still believed that there should be at least
an absolute Socialist predominance in the Provisional Government. Of course, the new Coalition
Ministry infuriated the Bolsheviki. From his hiding-place Lenine issued a series of "Letters
to the Comrades," which were published in the Rabochiy Put, in which he urged the necessity
of an armed uprising like that of July, only upon a larger scale. In these letters he scoffed
at the Constituent Assembly as a poor thing to satisfy hungry men. Meanwhile, Trotzky, out
of prison again, and other Bolshevik leaders were agitating by speeches, proclamations, and
newspaper articles for an uprising. The Provisional Government dared not try to suppress them.
Its hold upon the people was now too weak.

The Democratic Conference introduced one innovation. It created a Preliminary Parliament, as
the new body came to be known, though its first official title was the Provisional Council
of the Republic. This new body was to function as a parliament until the Constituent Assembly
convened, when it would give place to whatever form of parliamentary body the Constituent Assembly
might create. This Preliminary Parliament and its functions were thus described:

    This Council, in which all classes of the population will be
    represented, and in which the delegates elected to the Democratic
    Conference will also participate, will be given the right of
    addressing questions to the government and of securing replies to
    them in a definite period of time, of working out legislative acts
    and discussing all those questions which will be presented for
    consideration by the Provisional Government, as well as those
    which will arise on its own initiative. Resting on the
    co-operation of such a Council, the government, preserving, in
    accordance with its pledge, the unity of the governmental power
    created by the Revolution, will regard it its duty to consider the
    great public significance of such a Council in all its acts up to
    the time when the Constituent Assembly gives full and complete
    representation to all classes of the population of Russia.

This Preliminary Parliament was really another Duma--that is, it was a very limited parliamentary
body. Its life was short and quite uneventful. It assembled for the first time on October 8th
and was dispersed by the Bolsheviki on November 7th. When it assembled there were 555 members--the
number fixed by the decree of the Provisional Government. Of these, 53 were Bolsheviki, but
these withdrew almost at the opening with three others, thus reducing the actual membership
of the body to less than five hundred. Even with the Bolsheviki withdrawn, when Kerensky appeared
before the Preliminary Parliament on November 6th and made his last appeal, a resolution expressing
confidence in his government was carried only by a small majority. Only about three hundred
members were in attendance on this occasion, and of these 123 voted the expression of confidence,
while 102 voted against it, and 26 declined to vote at all.

The Bolsheviki had forced the United Executive Committee to convene a new All-Russian Congress
of Soviets, and the date of its meeting had been fixed at November 7th. While the elections
and arrangements for this Congress were proceeding, the Bolsheviki were actively and openly
organizing an uprising. In their papers and at their meetings they announced that on November
7th there would be an armed uprising against the government. Their intentions were, therefore,
thoroughly well known, and it was believed that the government had taken every necessary step
to repress any attempt to carry those intentions into practice. It was said that of the delegates
to the All-Russian Congress of Soviets-numbering 676 as against more than one thousand at the
former Congress of peasant Soviets alone--a majority were Bolsheviki. It was charged that the
Bolsheviki had intimidated many workers into voting for their candidates; that they had, in
some instances, put forward their men as anti-Bolsheviki and secured their election by false
pretenses; that they had practised fraud in many instances. It was quite certain that a great
many Soviets had refused to send delegates, and that many thousands of workers, and these all
anti-Bolsheviki, had simply grown weary and disgusted with the whole struggle. Whatever the
explanation might be, the fact remained that of the 676 delegates 390 were generally rated
as Bolsheviki, while 230 were Socialist-Revolutionists and Mensheviki. Not all of the Socialist-Revolutionists
could be counted as anti-Bolsheviki, moreover. There were fifty-six delegates whose position
was not quite clearly defined, but who were regarded as being, if not Bolsheviki, at least
anti-government. For the first time in the whole struggle the Bolsheviki apparently had a majority
of delegates in a working-class convention.

On the night of the 6th, a few hours before the opening of the Congress of Soviets, the Bolsheviki
struck the blow they had been so carefully planning. They were not met with the resistance
they had expected--for reasons which have never been satisfactorily explained. Kerensky recognized
that it was useless for him to attempt to carry on the fight. The Bolsheviki had organized
their Red Guards, and these, directed by military leaders, occupied the principal government
buildings, such as the central telephone and telegraph offices, the military-staff barracks,
and so on. Part of the Petrograd garrison joined with the Bolsheviki, the other part simply
refusing to do anything. On the morning of November 7th the members of the Provisional Government
were arrested in the Winter Palace, but Kerensky managed to escape. The Bolshevik coup d'état
was thus accomplished practically without bloodshed. A new government was formed, called the
Council of People's Commissaries, of which Nikolai Lenine was President and Leon Trotzky Commissioner
for Foreign Affairs. The "dictatorship of the proletariat" was thus begun. Kerensky's attempt
to rally forces enough to put an end to this dictatorship was a pathetic failure, as it was
bound to be. It was like the last fitful flicker with which a great flame dies. The masses
wanted peace--for that they would tolerate even a dictatorship.

CHAPTER VI

THE BOLSHEVIK WAR AGAINST DEMOCRACY

I

The defenders and supporters of the Bolsheviki have made much of the fact that there was very
little bloodshed connected with the successful Bolshevik uprising in Petrograd. That ought
not to be permitted, however, to obscure the fundamental fact that it was a military coup d'état,
the triumph of brute force over the will of the vast majority of the people. It was a crime
against democracy. That the people were passive, worn out, and distracted, content to wait
for the Constituent Assembly, only makes the Bolshevik crime appear the greater. Let us consider
the facts very briefly. Less than three weeks away was the date set for the Constituent Assembly
elections. Campaigns for the election of representatives to that great democratic convention
were already in progress. It was to be the most democratic constitutional convention that ever
existed in any country, its members being elected by the entire population, every man and woman
in Russia being entitled to vote. The suffrage was equal, direct, universal, and secret.

Moreover, there was a great democratic reconstruction of the nation actually in progress at
the time. The building up of autonomous democratic local governing bodies, in the shape of
a new type of zemstvos, was rapidly progressing. The old-time zemstvos had been undemocratic
and did not represent the working-people, but the new zemstvos were composed of representatives
nominated and elected by universal suffrage, equal, secret, and direct. Instead of being very
limited in their powers as the old zemstvos were, the new zemstvos were charged with all the
ordinary functions of local government. The elections to these bodies served as an admirable
practical education in democracy, making it more certain than would otherwise have been the
case that the Russian people would know how to use their new political instrument so as to
secure a Constituent Assembly fully representing their will and their desire.

At the same time active preparations for holding the election of members to the Constituent
Assembly were actually under way. The Socialist parties were making special efforts to educate
the illiterate voters how to use their ballots correctly. The Provisional Government, on its
part, was pushing the preparations for the elections as rapidly as possible. All over the country
special courts were established, in central places, to train the necessary workers so that
the elections might be properly conducted. Above all, the great problem of the socialization
of the land which had been agitated for so many years had now reached the stage at which its
solution might almost have been said to be complete. The National Soviet of Peasants, together
with the Socialist Revolutionary party, had formulated a law on the subject which represented
the aspiration and the best thought of the leaders of the peasants' movement. That law had
been approved in the Council of Ministers and was ready for immediate promulgation. Peasant
leaders like Chernov, Rakitnikov, Vikhiliaev, and Maslov had put an immense amount of work
into the formulation of this law, which aimed to avoid anarchy, to see to it that instead of
an individualistic scramble by the peasants for the land, in small and unorganized holdings,
the problem should be scientifically dealt with, lands being justly distributed among the peasant
communes, and among the peasants who had been despoiled, and large estates co-operatively organized
and managed.

All this the Bolsheviki knew, for it was common knowledge. There is no truth whatever in the
claim set up by many of the apologists for the Bolsheviki that they became enraged and resorted
to desperate tactics because nothing effective was being done to realize the aims of the Revolution,
to translate its ideals into fact. Quite the contrary is true. The Bolshevik insurrection was
precipitated by its leaders precisely because they saw that the Provisional Government was
loyally and intelligently carrying out the program of the Revolution, in co-operation with
the majority of the working-class organizations and their leaders.

The Bolsheviki did not want the ideals of the Revolution to be realized, for the very simple
reason that they were opposed to those ideals. In all the long struggle from Herzen to Kerensky
the revolutionary movement of Russia had stood for political democracy first of all. Now, at
the moment when political democracy was being realized, the Bolsheviki sought to kill it and
to set up something else--namely, a dictatorship of a small party of less than two hundred
thousand over a nation of one hundred and eighty millions. There can be no dispute as to this
aim; it has been stated by Lenine with great frankness. "Just as one hundred and fifty thousand
lordly landowners under Czarism dominated the one hundred and thirty millions of Russian peasants,
so two hundred thousand members of the Bolshevik party are imposing their proletarian will
on the mass, but this time in the interest of the latter."[23]

Lenine's figures probably exaggerate the Bolshevik numbers, but, assuming them to be accurate,
can anybody in his right mind, knowing anything of the history of the Russian revolutionary
movement, believe that the substitution of a ruling class of one hundred and fifty thousand
by one of two hundred thousand, to govern a nation of one hundred and eighty millions, was
the end to which so many lives were sacrificed? Can any sane and sincere person believe that
the class domination described by the great arch-Bolshevik himself comes within measurable
distance of being as much of a realization of the ideals of the Revolution as did the Constituent
Assembly plan with its basis of political democracy, universal, equal, direct, secret, all-determining
suffrage? We do not forget Lenine's statement that this new domination of the people by a ruling
minority differs from the old régime in that the Bolsheviki are imposing their will upon the
mass "in the interest of the latter." What ruling class ever failed to make that claim? Was
it not the habit of the Czars, all of them, during the whole revolutionary epoch, to indulge
in the pious cant of proclaiming that they were motived only by their solicitude for the interests
and well-being of the peasants?

It is a curious illustration of the superficial character of the Bolshevist mentality that
a man so gifted intellectually as Lenine undoubtedly is should advance in justification of
his policy a plea so repugnant to morality and intelligence, and that it should be quietly
accepted by men and women calling themselves radical revolutionists. Some years ago a well-known
American capitalist announced with great solemnity that he and men like himself were the agents
of Providence, charged with managing industry "for the good of the people." Naturally, his
naïve claim provoked the scornful laughter of every radical in the land. Yet, strange as it
may seem, whenever I have pointed out to popular audiences that Lenine asserted the right of
two hundred thousand proletarians to impose their rule upon Russia, always, without a single
exception, some defender of the Bolsheviki--generally a Socialist or a member of the I.W.W.--has
entered the plea, "Yes, but it is for the good of the people!"

If the Bolsheviki had wanted to see the realization of the ideals of the Revolution, they would
have found in the conditions existing immediately prior to their insurrection a challenge calling
them to the service of the nation, in support of the Provisional Government and the Preliminary
Parliament. They would have permitted nothing to imperil the success of the program that was
so well advanced. As it was, determination to defeat that program was their impelling motive.
Not only did they fear and oppose political democracy; they were equally opposed to democracy
in industry, to that democracy in the economic life of the nation which every Socialist movement
in the world had at all times acknowledged to be its goal. As we shall see, they united to
political dictatorship industrial dictatorship. They did not want democracy, but power; they
did not want peace, even, as they wanted power.

The most painstaking and sympathetic study of the Russian Revolution will not disclose any
great ideal or principle, moral or political, underlying the distinctive Bolshevik agitation
and program. Nothing could well be farther from the truth than the view taken by many amiable
people who, while disavowing the actions of the Bolsheviki, seek to mitigate the judgment which
mankind pronounces against them by the plea that, after all, they are extreme idealists, misguided,
of course, but, nevertheless, inspired by a noble ideal; that they are trying, as John Brown
and many others have tried, to realize a great ideal, but have been made incapable of seeing
their ideal in its proper perspective, and, therefore, of making the compromises and adjustments
which the transmutation of ideals to reality always requires.

No sympathizer with Russia--certainly no Socialist--can fail to wish that this indulgent criticism
were true. Its acceptance would lighten the darkest chapter in Russian history, and, at the
same time, remove from the great international Socialist movement a shameful reproach. But
the facts are incompatible with such a theory. Instead of being fanatical idealists, incapable
of compromises and adjustments, the Bolsheviki have, from the very beginning, been loudly scornful
of rigid and unbending idealism; have made numerous compromises, alliances, and "political
deals," and have repeatedly shifted their ground in accordance with political expediency. They
have been consistently loyal to no aim save one--the control of power. They have been opportunists
of the most extreme type. There is not a single Socialist or democratic principle which they
have not abandoned when it served, their political ends; not a single instrument, principle,
or device of autocratic despotism which they have not used when by so doing they could gain
power. For the motto of Bolshevism we might well paraphrase the well-known line of Horace,
and make it read, "Get power, honestly, if you can, if not--somehow or other."

Of course, this judgment applies only to Bolshevism as such: to the special and peculiar methods
and ideas which distinguish the Bolsheviki from their fellow-Socialists. It is not to be questioned
that as Socialists and revolutionists they have been inspired by some of the great ideals common
to all Socialists everywhere. But they differed from the great mass of Russian Socialists so
fundamentally that they separated themselves from them and became a separate and distinct party.
That which caused this separation is the essence of Bolshevism--not the ideals held in common.
No understanding of Bolshevism is possible unless this fundamental fact is first fully understood.
Power, to be gained at any cost, and ruthlessly applied, by the proletarian minority, is the
basic principle of Bolshevism as a distinct form of revolutionary movement. Of course, the
Bolshevik leaders sought this power for no sordid, self-aggrandizing ends; they are not self-seeking
adventurers, as many would have us believe. They are sincerely and profoundly convinced that
the goal of social and economic freedom and justice can be more easily attained by their method
than by the method of democratic Socialism. Still, the fact remains that what social ideals
they hold are no part of Bolshevism. They are Socialist ideals. Bolshevism is a distinctive
method and a program, and its essence is the relentless use of power by the proletariat against
the rest of society in the same manner that the bourgeois and military rulers of nations have
commonly used it against the proletariat. Bolshevism has simply inverted the old Czarist régime.

The fairness and justice of this judgment are demonstrated by the Bolsheviki themselves. They
denounced Kerensky's government for not holding the elections for the Constituent Assembly
sooner, posing as the champions of the Constituante. When they had themselves assumed control
of the government they delayed the meeting of the Constituent Assembly and then suppressed
it by force of arms! They denounced Kerensky for having restored the death penalty in the army
in cases of gross treachery, professing an intense horror of capital punishment as a form of
"bourgeois savagery." When they came into power they instituted capital punishment for civil
and political offenses, establishing public hangings and floggings as a means of impressing
the population![24] They had bitterly assailed Kerensky for his "militarism," for trying to
build up the army and for urging men to fight. In less critical circumstances they themselves
resorted to forced conscription. They condemned Kerensky and his colleagues for "interfering
with freedom of speech and press." When they came into power they suppressed all non-Bolshevist
papers and meetings in a manner differing not at all from that of the Czar's régime, forcing
the other Socialist parties and groups to resort to the old pre-Revolution "underground" methods.

The evidence of all these things, and things even worse than these, is conclusive and unimpeachable.
It is contained in the records of the Bolshevik government, in its publications, and in the
reports of the great Socialist parties of Russia, officially made to the International Socialist
Bureau. Surely the evidence sustains the charge that, whatever else they may or may not be,
the Bolsheviki are not unbending and uncompromising idealists of the type of John Brown and
William Lloyd Garrison, as they are so often represented as being by well-meaning sentimentalists
whose indulgence of the Bolsheviki is as unlimited as their ignorance concerning them.

Some day, perhaps, a competent psychologist will attempt the task of explaining the psychology
of our fellow-citizens who are so ready to defend the Bolsheviki for doing the very things
they themselves hate and condemn. In any list of men and women in this country friendly to
the Bolsheviki it will be found that they are practically all pacifists and anti-conscriptionists,
while a great many are non-resistants and conscientious objectors to military service. Practically
all of them are vigorous defenders of the freedom of the press, of the right of public assemblage
and of free speech. With the exception of a few Anarchists, they are almost universally strong
advocates of radical political democracy. How can high-minded and intelligent men and women--as
many of them are--holding such beliefs as these give countenance to the Bolsheviki, who bitterly
and resolutely oppose all of them? How can they denounce America's adoption of conscription
and say that it means that "Democracy is dead in America" while, at the same time, hailing
the birth of democracy in Russia, where conscription is enforced by the Bolsheviki? How, again,
can they at one and the same time condemn American democracy for its imperfections, as in the
matter of suffrage, while upholding and defending the very men who, in Russia, deliberately
set out to destroy the universal equal suffrage already achieved? How can they demand freedom
of the press and of assemblage, even in war-time, and denounce such restrictions as we have
had to endure here in America, and at the same time uphold the men responsible for suppressing
the press and public assemblages in Russia in a manner worse than was attempted by the Czar?
Is there no logical sense in the average radical's mind? Or can it be that, after all, the
people who make up the Bolshevist following, and who are so much given to engaging in protest
demonstrations of various kinds, are simply restless, unanchored spirits, for whom the stimulant
and excitation of revolt is a necessity? How many are simply victims of subtle neuroses occasioned
by sex derangements, by religious chaos, and similar causes?

II

The Bolshevik rule began as a reign of terror. We must not make the mistake of supposing that
it was imposed upon the rest of Russia as easily as it was imposed upon Petrograd, where conditions
were exceptional. In the latter city, with the assistance of the Preobrajenski and Seminovsky
regiments from the garrison, and of detachments of sailors from the Baltic fleet, to all of
whom most extravagant promises were made, the coup d'état was easily managed with little bloodshed.
But in a great many other places the Bolshevist rule was effected in no such peaceful fashion,
but by means of a bloody terror. Here, for example, is the account of the manner in which the
counter-revolution of the Bolsheviki was accomplished at Saratov, as given by a competent eye-witness,
a well-known Russian Socialist whose long and honorable service in the revolutionary movement
entitles her to the honor of every friend of Free Russia--Inna Rakitnikov:[25]

    Here ... is how the Bolshevist coup d'état took place at
    Saratov. I was witness to these facts myself. Saratov is a big
    university and intellectual center, possessing a great number of
    schools, libraries, and divers associations designed to elevate
    the intellectual standard of the population. The Zemstvo of
    Saratov was one of the best in Russia. The peasant population of
    this province, among whom the revolutionary Socialist propaganda
    was carried on for several years, by the Revolutionary Socialist
    party, is wide awake and well organized. The Municipality and the
    Agricultural Committees were composed of Socialists. The
    population was actively preparing for the elections to the
    Constituent Assembly; the people discussed the list of candidates,
    studied the candidates' biographies, as well as the programs of
    the different parties. On the night of October 28th [November
    10th, European calendar], by reason of an order that had come from
    Petrograd, the Bolshevik coup d'état broke out at Saratov. The
    following forces were its instruments: the garrison, which was a
    stranger to the mass of the population, a weak party of workers,
    and, in the capacity of leaders, some Intellectuals, who, up to
    that time, had played no rôle in the public life of the town.

    It was indeed a military coup d'état. The city hall, where sat
    the Socialists, who were elected by equal, direct, and secret
    universal suffrage, was surrounded by soldiers; machine-guns were
    placed in front and the bombardment began. This lasted a whole
    night; some were wounded, some killed. The municipal judges were
    arrested. Soon after a Manifesto solemnly announced to the
    population that the "enemies of the people," the
    "counter-revolutionaries," were overthrown; that the power of
    Saratov was going to pass into the hands of the Soviet
    (Bolshevist) of the Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates.

As soon as the overthrow of the existing authorities was effected and the Bolsheviki, through
their Red Guards and other means, were in a position to exert their authority, they resorted
to every method of oppression and repression known to the old autocratic régime. They suppressed
the papers of the Socialist parties and groups opposed to them, and in some instances confiscated
the plants, turned out the editors, and used the papers themselves. In one of his "Letters
to the Comrades," published in the Rabochiy Put, a few days before the insurrection, Lenine
had confessed that Kerensky had maintained freedom of the press and of assemblage. The passage
is worth quoting, not only for the information it contains concerning the Kerensky régime,
but also because it affords a standard by which to judge the Bolsheviki. Lenine wrote:

    The Germans have only one Liebknecht, no newspapers, no freedom of
    assemblage, no councils; they are working against the intense
    hostility of all classes of the population, including the wealthy
    peasants--with the imperialist bourgeoisie splendidly
    organized--and yet the Germans are making some attempt at
    agitation; while we, with tens of papers, with freedom of
    assemblage, with the majority of the Council with us, we, the best
    situated of all the proletarian internationalists, can we refuse
    to support the German revolutionists in organizing a revolt?

That it was not the "German revolutionists" who in November, 1917, wanted the Russians to revolt
against the Kerensky government, but the Majority Socialists, upon whom Lenine had poured his
contempt, on the one hand, and the German General Staff, on the other hand, is a mere detail.
The important thing is that Lenine admitted that under the Kerensky government the Russian
workers, including the Bolsheviki, were "the best situated of all the proletarian internationalists,"
and that they had "tens of papers, with freedom of assemblage." In the face of such statements
by Lenine himself, written a few days before the Bolshevik counter-revolution, what becomes
of the charge that the suppression of popular liberties under Kerensky was one of the main
causes of the revolt of the Bolsheviki?

Against the tolerance of Kerensky, the arbitrary and despotic methods of the Bolsheviki stand
out in strong contrast. Many non-Bolshevist Socialist organs were suppressed; papers containing
matter displeasing to the Bolshevik authorities were suspended, whole issues were confiscated,
and editors were imprisoned, precisely as in the days of the Czar. It became necessary for
the Socialist-Revolutionists to issue their paper with a different title, and from a different
place, every day. Here is the testimony of Inna Rakitnikov again, contained in an official
report to the International Socialist Bureau:

    All the non-Bolshevik newspapers were confiscated or prosecuted
    and deprived of every means of reaching the provinces; their
    editors' offices and printing-establishments were looted. After
    the creation of the "Revolutionary Tribunal" the authors of
    articles that were not pleasing to the Bolsheviki, as well as the
    directors of newspapers, were brought to judgment and condemned to
    make amends or go to prison, etc.

    The premises of numerous organizations were being constantly
    pillaged. The Red Guard came there to search, destroying different
    documents; frequently objects which were found on the premises
    disappeared. Thus were looted the premises of the Central
    Committee of the Revolutionary Socialist party (27 Galernaia
    Street) and--several times--the office of the paper Dielo Naroda
    (22 Liteinia Street) ... the office of the paper Volya Naroda,
    etc.... But the Central Committee ... continued to issue a daily
    paper, only changing its title, as in the time of Czarism, and
    thus continued its propaganda....

The Yolya Naroda, referred to by Inna Rakitnikov, was the official organ of the Socialist-Revolutionary
party. It was raided on several occasions. For example, in January, 1918, the leaders of the
party reported that a detachment of Bolshevik Red Guards had broken into the office of the
paper, committed various depredations, and made several arrests.[26] Here is another Socialist
witness: One of the ablest of the leaders of the Bohemian Socialists in the United States is
Joseph Martinek, the brilliant and scholarly editor of the Bohemian Socialist weekly, the Delnicke
Listy. He has always been identified with the radical section of the movement. A student of
Russian history, speaking the language fluently, it was his good fortune to spend several weeks
in Petrograd immediately before and after the Bolshevik counter-revolution. He testifies that
the "freedom of the press established by Kerensky" was "terminated by the Bolsheviki."[27]
This is not the testimony of "capitalist newspapers," but of Socialists of unquestionable authority
and standing. The Dielo Naroda was a Socialist paper, and the volunteer venders of it, who
were brutally beaten and shot down by Red Guards, were Socialist working-men.[28] When Oskar
Tokoi, the well-known revolutionary Finnish Socialist leader, former Prime Minister of Finland,
declares that "freedom of assemblage, association, free speech, and free press is altogether
destroyed,"[29] the Bolsheviki and their sympathizers cannot plead that they are the victims
of "capitalist misrepresentation." The attitude of the Bolshevik leaders toward the freedom
of the press has been frankly stated editorially in Pravda, their official organ, in the following
words:

    The press is a most dangerous weapon in the hands of our enemies.
    We will tear it from them, we will reduce it to impotence. It is
    the moment for us to prepare battle. We will be inflexible in our
    defense of the rights of the exploited. The struggle will be
    decisive. We are going to smite the journals with fines, to shut
    them up, to arrest the editors, and hold them as hostages.[30]

Is it any wonder that Paul Axelrod, who was one of the representatives of Russia on the International
Socialist Bureau prior to the outbreak of the war, has been forced to declare that the Bolsheviki
have "introduced into Russia a system worse than Czarism, suppressing the Constituent Assembly
and the liberty of the press"?[31] Or that the beloved veteran of the Russian Revolution, Nicholas
Tchaykovsky, should lament that "the Bolshevik usurpation is the continuation of the government
by which Czarism held the country in an iron grip"?[32]

III

Lenine, Trotzky, Zinoviev, and other Bolshevik leaders early found themselves so much at variance
with the accepted Socialist position that they decided to change their party name. They had
been Social Democrats, a part of the Social Democratic party of Russia. Now ever since Bronterre
O'Brien first used the terms "Social Democrat" and "Social Democracy," in 1839, their meaning
has been pretty well established. A Social Democrat is one who aims to base government and
industry upon democracy. Certainly, this cannot be said to be an accurate description of the
position of men who believe in the rule of a nation of one hundred and eighty millions by a
small party of two hundred thousand or less--or even by an entire class representing not more
than six per cent. of the population--and Lenine and his friends, recognizing the fact, decided
to change the name of their group to the Communist party, by which name they are now known
in Russia. Lenine frankly admits that it would be a mistake to speak of this party as a party
of democracy. He says:

    The word "democracy" cannot be scientifically applied to the
    Communist party. That is very far from the truth. The
phrase in question is merely a rhetorical flourish. No man has more
caustically criticized and ridiculed the Anarchists for their dream of
organization without authority than Nikolai Lenine. Moreover, his
conception of Soviet government provides for a very strong central
authority. It is a new kind of state, but a state, nevertheless, and, as we
shall discover, far more powerful than the political state with which we
are familiar, exercising far greater control over the life of the
individual. It is not to be a democratic state, but a very despotic one, a
dictatorship by a small but powerful ruling class. It was not the word
"democracy" which Lenine felt to be a "shackle upon the revolutionary
nation," but democracy itself.

The manner in which they betrayed the Constituent Assembly will prove the complete hostility
of the Bolsheviki to democratic government. In order to excuse and justify the Bolsheviki's
actions in this regard, their supporters in this country have assiduously circulated two statements.
They are, first, that the Provisional Government purposely and with malicious intent delayed
the convocation of the Constituent Assembly, hoping to stave it off altogether; second, that
such a long time had elapsed between the elections and the convocation that when the latter
date was reached the delegates no longer represented the true feeling of the electorate.

With regard to the first of these statements, which is a repetition of a charge made by Trotzky
before the Bolshevik revolt, it is to be noted that it is offered in justification of the Bolshevik
coup d'état. If the charge made were true, instead of false, as it can easily be shown to be,
it would only justify the counter-revolution if the counter-revolution itself were made the
instrument for insuring the safety of the Constituent Assembly. But the Bolsheviki suppressed
the Constituent Assembly. By what process of reasoning do we reach the result that because
the Provisional Government delayed the convocation of the Constituent Assembly, which the people
desired, a counter-revolutionary movement to suppress it altogether, by force of arms, was
right and proper?

With regard to the second statement, which is a repetition of an argument advanced in Russia,
it should be sufficient to emphasize a few dates. The Bolsheviki seized the power of government
on November 7th and the elections for the Constituent Assembly took place on November 25th--nearly
three weeks later. The date set by the Kerensky government for the opening of the Constituent
Assembly was December 12th and on that date some forty-odd members put in an appearance. Recognizing
that they could not begin business until a quorum appeared, these decided to wait until at
least a quorum should be present. They did not attempt to do any work. What happened is told
in the following passages from a signed statement by 109 members--all Socialist-Revolutionists.[34]

    On the appointed day and hour of the opening of the session of the
    Constituent Assembly ... the delegates to the Constituent Assembly
    who had arrived in Petrograd gathered at the Tavrichesky Palace.
    The elected representatives of the people beheld innumerable
    banners and large crowds surrounding the palace. This was
    Petrograd greeting the representatives of the people. At the doors
    of the palace the picture changed. There stood armed guards and at
    the orders of the usurpers, the Bolsheviki, they refused to let
    the delegates pass into the Tavrichesky Palace. It appeared that,
    in order to enter the building, the delegates had first to pay
    respects to the Commissaire, a satellite of Lenine and Trotzky,
    and there receive special permission. The delegates would not
    submit to that; elected by the people and equipped with formal
    authorization, they had the right to freely enter any public
    building assigned for their meeting. The delegates decided to
    enter the Tavrichesky Palace without asking the new authorities,
    and they succeeded in doing so. On the first day the guards did
    not dare to lift their arms against the people's elected
    representatives and allowed them to enter the building without
    molestation.

    There was no struggle, no violence, no sacrifices; the delegates
    demanded that the guards respect their rights; they demanded to be
    admitted, and the guards yielded.

    In the Tavrichesky Palace the delegates opened their meeting; V.M.
    Chernov was elected chairman. There were, altogether, about forty
    delegates present. They realized that there were not enough
    present to start the work of the Constituent Assembly. It was
    decided that it would be advisable to await the arrival of the
    other delegates and start the work of the Constituent Assembly
    only when a sufficient number were present. Those already there
    decided to meet daily at the Tavrichesky Palace in order to count
    all the delegates as they arrived, and on an appointed day to
    publicly announce the day and hour of the beginning of the
    activities of the Constituent Assembly.

    When the delegates finished their session and adjourned, the old
    guards had been dismissed for their submissive attitude toward the
    delegates and replaced by armed civilian followers of Lenine and
    Trotzky. The latter issued an order to disband the delegates, but
    there were none to be disbanded.

    The following day the government of the Bolsheviki dishonestly and
    basely slandered the people's representatives in their official
    announcement which appeared in Pravda. That lying newspaper wrote
    that the representatives of the people had forced their way into
    the palace, accompanied by Junkers and the White Guards of the
    bourgeoisie, that the representatives wanted to take advantage of
    their small numbers and had begun the work of the Constituent
    Assembly. Every one knows that this is slanderous as regards the
    representatives of the people. Such lies and slanders were
    resorted to by the old régime.

    The aim of the slanders and the lies is clear. The usurpers do
    not want the people's representatives to have the supreme power
    and therefore are preparing to disband the Constituent Assembly.
    On the 28th of November, in the evening, having begun to arrest
    members of the Constitutional-Democratic party, the Bolsheviki
    violated the inviolability of the Constituent Assembly. On
    December 3d a delegate to the Constituent Assembly, the
    Socialist-Revolutionist, Filippovsky, who was elected by the army
    on the southwestern front, was arrested.

    In accordance with their decision reached on November 28th, the
    delegates gathered at the Tavrichesky Palace on November 29th and
    30th. As on the first day, armed soldiers stood guard at the
    entrance of the palace and would not let any one pass. The
    delegates, however, insisted and were finally allowed to enter.

    On the third day, scenes of brutal violence toward the people's
    representatives took place at the palace. Peasants were the
    unfortunate victims of this violence.

    When the delegates had ended their session and all that remained
    was the affixing of the signatures to the minutes, sailors forced
    their way into the hall; these were headed by a Bolshevik officer,
    a former commander of the Fortress of St. Peter and St. Paul.
    The commander demanded that the delegates disband. In reply it was
    stated that the delegates would disband after they had finished
    their business. Then at the order of the commander the sailors
    took the delegate Ilyan, elected by the peasants of the Province
    of Tambov, by the arm and dragged him to the exit. After Ilyan,
    the sailors dragged out the peasant delegate from the Province of
    Moscow, Bikov; then the sailors approached Maltzev, a peasant
    delegate from the Province of Kostroma. He, however, shouted out
    that he would rather be shot than to submit to such violence. His
    courage appealed to the sailors and they stopped.

    Now all the halls in the Tavrichesky Palace are locked and it is
    impossible to meet there. The delegates who come to the
    Tavrichesky Palace cannot even gather in the lobby, for as soon
    as a group gathers, the armed hirelings of Lenine and Trotzky
    disperse them. Thus, in former times, behaved the servants of the
    Czar and the enemies of the people, policemen and gendarmes.

This is not the testimony of correspondents of bourgeois journals; it is from a statement prepared
at the time and signed by more than a hundred Socialists, members of the oldest and largest
Socialist party in Russia, many of them men whose long and honorable service has endeared them
to their comrades in all lands. It is not testimony that can be impeached or controverted.
It forms part of the report of these well-known and trusted Socialists to their comrades in
Russia and elsewhere. The claim that the elections to the Constituent Assembly were held on
the basis of an obsolete register, before the people had a chance to become acquainted with
the Bolshevist program, and that so long a time had elapsed since the elections that the delegates
could not be regarded as true representatives of the people, was first put forward by the Bolsheviki
when the Constituent Assembly was finally convened, on January 18th. It was an absurd claim
for the Bolsheviki to make, for one of the very earliest acts of the Bolshevik government,
after the overthrow of Kerensky, was to issue a decree ordering that the elections be held
as arranged. By that act they assumed responsibility for the elections, and could not fairly
and honorably enter the plea, later on, that the elections were not valid.

Here is the story of the struggle for the Constituent Assembly, briefly summarized. The first
Provisional Government issued a Manifesto on March 20, 1917, promising to convoke the Constituent
Assembly "as soon as possible." This promise was repeated by the Provisional Government when
it was reorganized after the resignation of Miliukov and Guchkov in the middle of May. That
the promise was sincere there can be no reasonable doubt, for the Provisional Government at
once set about creating a commission to work out the necessary machinery and was for the election
by popular vote of delegates to the Constituent Assembly. Russia was not like a country which
had ample electoral machinery already existing; new machinery had to be devised for the purpose.
This commission was opened on June 7, 1917; its work was undertaken with great earnestness,
and completed in a remarkably short time, with the result that on July 22d the Provisional
Government--Kerensky at its head--announced that the elections to the Constituent Assembly
would be held on September 30th, and the convocation of the Assembly itself on the 12th of
December. It was soon found, however, that it would be physically impossible for the local
authorities all to be prepared to hold the election on the date set--it was necessary, among
other things, to first elect the local authorities which were to arrange for the election of
the delegates to the Constituent Assembly--and so, on August 22d, Kerensky signed the following
decree, making the one and only postponement of the Constituent Assembly, so far as the Provisional
Government was concerned:

    Desiring to assure the convocation of the Constituent Assembly as
    soon as possible, the Provisional Government designated the 30th
    of September as election-day, in which case the whole burden of
    making up the election lists must fall on the municipalities and
    the newly elected zemstvos. The enormous labor of holding the
    elections for the local institution has taken time. At present,
    in view of the date of establishment of the local institutions, on
    the basis decreed by the government--direct, general, equal, and
    secret suffrage--the Provisional Government has decided:

    To set aside as the day for the elections to the Constituent
    Assembly the 25th of November, of the year 1917, and as the date
    for the convocation of the Constituent Assembly the 12th of
    December, of the year 1917.

Notwithstanding this clear and honorable record, we find Trotzky, at a Conference of Northern
Councils of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates, on October 25th, when he well knew that arrangements
for holding the Constituent Assembly elections were in full swing, charging that Kerensky was
engaged in preventing the convocation of the Constituent Assembly! He demanded at that time
that all power should be taken from the Provisional Government and transferred to the Soviets.
These, he said, would convoke the Assembly on the date that had been assigned, December 12th.

The Bolshevik coup d'état took place, as already noted, less than three weeks before the date
set for the elections, for which every preparation had been made by the government and the
local authorities. It was at the beginning of the campaign, and the Bolsheviki had their own
candidates in the field in many places. It was a foregone conclusion that the Constituent Assembly
brought into being by the universal suffrage would be dominated by Socialists. There was never
the slightest fear that it would be dominated by the bourgeois parties. What followed is best
told in the exact language of a protest to the International Socialist Bureau by Inna Rakitnikov,
representative of the Revolutionary Socialist party, which was, be it remembered, the largest
and the oldest of the Russian Socialist parties:

    The coup d'état was followed by various other manifestations of
    Bolshevist activity--arrests, searches, confiscation of
    newspapers, ban on meetings. Bands of soldiers looted the country
    houses in the suburbs of the city; a school for the children of
    the people and the buildings of the Children's Holiday Settlement
    were also pillaged. Bands of soldiers were forthwith sent into the
    country to cause trouble there.... The bands of soldiers who were
    sent into the country used not only persuasion, but also violence,
    trying to force the peasants to give their votes for the
    Bolshevik candidates at the time of the elections to the
    Constituent Assembly; they tore up the bulletins of the
    Socialist-Revolutionists, overturned the ballot-boxes, etc....
    The inhabitants of the country proved themselves in all that
    concerned the elections wide awake to the highest degree. There
    were hardly any abstentions; 90 per cent. of the population took
    part in the voting. The day of the voting was kept as a solemn
    feast; the priest said mass; the peasants dressed in their best
    clothes; they believed that the Constituent Assembly would give
    them order, laws, the land. In the Government of Saratov, out of
    fourteen deputies elected, there were twelve
    Socialist-Revolutionists. There were others (such as the
    Government of Pensa, for example) that elected only
    Socialist-Revolutionists. The Bolsheviki had the majority only in
    Petrograd and Moscow and in certain units of the army. To violence
    and conquest of power by force of arms the population answered by
    the elections to the Constituent Assembly, the people sent to this
    Assembly, not the Bolsheviki, but, by an overwhelming majority,
    Socialist-Revolutionists.

Of course, this is the testimony of one who is confessedly anti-Bolshevist, one who has suffered
deep injury at the hands of the Bolsheviki of whom she writes. For all that, her testimony
cannot be ignored or laughed aside. It has been indorsed by E. Roubanovitch, a member of the
International Socialist Bureau, and a man of the highest integrity, in the following words:
"I affirm that her sincere and matured testimony cannot be suspected of partizanship or of
dogmatic partiality against the Bolsheviki." What is more important, however, is that the subsequent
conduct of the Bolsheviki in all matters relating to the Constituent Assembly was such as to
confirm belief in her statements.

No Bolshevik spokesman has ever yet challenged the accuracy of the statement that an overwhelming
majority of the deputies elected to the Constituent Assembly were representatives of the Revolutionary
Socialist party. As a matter of fact, the Bolsheviki elected less than one-third of the deputies.
In the announcement of their withdrawal from the Constituent Assembly when it assembled in
January the Bolshevik members admitted that the Socialist-Revolutionists had "obtained a majority
of the Constituent Assembly."

The attitude of the Bolsheviki toward the Constituent Assembly changed as their electoral prospects
changed. At first, believing that, as a result of their successful coup, they would have the
support of the great mass of the peasants and city workers, they were vigorous in their support
of the Assembly. In the first of their "decrees" after the overthrow of the Kerensky Cabinet,
the Bolshevik "Commissaries of the People" announced that they were to exercise complete power
"until the meeting of the Constituent Assembly," which was nothing less than a pledge that
they would regard the latter body as the supreme, ultimate authority. Three days after the
revolt Lenine, as president of the People's Commissaries, published this decree:

    In the name of the Government of the Republic, elected by the
    All-Russian Congress of Councils of Workmen's and Soldiers'
    Delegates, with the participation of the Peasants' Delegates, the
    Council of the People's Commissaries decrees:

    1. That the elections to the Constituent Assembly shall be held on
    November 25th, the day set aside for this purpose.

    2. All electoral committees, all local organizations, the Councils
    of Workmen's, Soldiers' and Peasants' Delegates and the soldiers'
    organizations at the front are to bend every effort toward
    safeguarding the freedom of the voters and fair play at the
    elections to the Constituent Assembly, which will be held on the
    appointed date.

If this attitude had been maintained throughout, and had the Bolsheviki loyally accepted the
verdict of the electorate when it was given, there could have been no complaint. But the evidence
shows that their early attitude was not maintained. Later on, as reports received from the
interior of the country showed that the masses were not flocking to their banners, they began
to assume a critical attitude toward the Constituent Assembly. The leaders of the Socialist-Revolutionary
party were warning their followers that the Bolsheviki would try to wreck the Constituent Assembly,
for which they were bitterly denounced in organs like Pravda and Izvestya. Very soon, however,
these Bolshevist organs began to discuss the Constituent Assembly in a very critical spirit.
It was possible, they pointed out, that it would have a bourgeois majority, treating the Socialist-Revolutionists
and the Cadets as being on the same level, equally servants of the bourgeoisie. Then appeared
editorials to show that it would not be possible to place the destinies of Russia in the hands
of such people, even though they were elected by the "unthinking masses." Finally, when it
was clear that the Socialist-Revolutionary party had elected a majority of the members, Pravda
and Izvestya took the position that the victorious people did not need a Constituent Assembly;
that a new instrument had been created which made the old democratic method obsolete.[35] The
"new instrument" was, of course, the Bolshevist Soviet.

IV

For the moment we are not concerned with the merits or the failings of the Soviet considered
as an instrument of government. We are concerned only with democracy and the relation of the
Bolshevist method to democracy. From this point of view, then, let us consider the facts. The
Soviet was not something new, as so many of our American drawing-room champions of Bolshevism
seem to think. The Soviet was the type of organization common to Russia. There were Soviets
of peasants, of soldiers, of teachers, of industrial workers, of officers, of professional
men, and so on. Every class and every group in the classes had its own Soviet. The Soviet in
its simplest form is a delegate body consisting of representatives of a particular group--a
peasants' Soviet, for example. Another type, more important, roughly corresponds to the Central
Labor Union in an American city, in that it is composed of representatives of workers of all
kinds. These delegates are, in the main, chosen by the workers in the shops and factories and
in the meetings of the unions. The anti-Bolshevist Socialists, such as the Mensheviki and the
Socialist-Revolutionists, were not opposed to Soviets as working-class organizations. On the
contrary, they approved of them, supported them, and, generally, belonged to them.

They were opposed only to the theory that these Soviets, recruited in a more or less haphazard
manner, as such organizations must necessarily be, were better adapted to the governing of
a great country like Russia than a legal body which received its mandate in elections based
upon universal, equal, direct, and secret suffrage. No one ever pretended that the Soviets
represented all the workers of Russia--including peasants in that term--or even a majority
of them. No one ever pretended that the Soviet, as such, was a stable and constant factor.
New Soviets were always springing up and others dying out. Many existed only in name, on paper.
There never has been an accurate list of the Soviets existing in Russia. Many lists have been
made, but always by the time they could be tabulated and published there have been many changes.
For these and other reasons which will suggest themselves to the mind of any thoughtful reader,
many of the leaders of the revolutionary movement in Russia have doubted the value of the Soviet
as a unit of government, while highly valuing it as a unit of working-class organization and
struggle.

Back of all the strife between the Bolsheviki centered around the Soviets and the Socialist-Revolutionists
and Mensheviki, centered around the Constituent Assembly, was a greater fact than any we have
been discussing, however. The Bolsheviki with their doctrinaire Marxism had carried the doctrine
of the class struggle to such extreme lengths that they virtually placed the great mass of
the peasants with the bourgeoisie. The Revolution must be controlled by the proletariat, they
argued. The control of the government and of industry by the people, which was the slogan of
the old democracy, will not do, for the term "the people" includes bourgeois elements. Even
if it is narrowed by excluding the great capitalists and landowners, still it embraces the
lesser capitalists, small landowners, shopkeepers, and the petty bourgeoisie in general. These
elements weaken the militancy of the proletariat. What is needed is the dictatorship of the
proletariat. Now, only a very small part of the peasantry, the very poor peasants, can be safely
linked to the proletariat--and even these must be carefully watched. It was a phase of the
old and familiar conflict between agrarian and industrial groups in the Socialist movement.
It is not very many years since the Socialist party of America was convulsed by a similar discussion.
Could the farmer ever be a genuine and sincere and trustworthy Socialist? The question was
asked in the party papers in all seriousness, and in one or two state organizations measures
were taken to limit the number of farmers entering the party, so that at all times there might
be the certainty of a preponderance of proletarian over farmer votes.

Similar distrust, only upon a much bigger scale, explains the fight for and against the Constituent
Assembly. Lenine and his followers distrusted the peasants as a class whose interests were
akin to the class of small property-owners. He would only unite with the poor, propertyless
peasants. The leaders of the peasantry, on the other hand, supported by the more liberal Marxians,
would expand the meaning of the term "working class" and embrace within its meaning all the
peasants as well as all city workers, most of the professional classes, and so on. We can get
some idea of this strife from a criticism which Lenine directs against the Mensheviki:

    In its class composition this party is not Socialist at all. It
    does not represent the toiling masses. It represents fairly
    prosperous peasants and working-men, petty traders, many small and
    some even fairly large capitalists, and a certain number of real
    but gullible proletarians who have been caught in the bourgeois
    net.[36]

It is clear from this criticism that Lenine does not believe that a genuine Socialist party--and,
presumably, therefore, the same must apply to a Socialist government--can represent "fairly
prosperous peasants and working-men." We now know how to appraise the Soviet government. The
constitution of Russia under the rule of the Bolsheviki is required by law to be posted in
all public places in Russia. In Article II, Chapter V, paragraph 9, of this document it is
set forth that "the Constitution of the Russian Socialist Federated Soviet Republic involves,
in view of the present transition period, the establishment of a dictatorship of the urban
and rural proletariat and the poorest peasantry in the form of a powerful All-Russian Soviet
authority." Attention is called to this passage here, not for the sake of pointing out the
obvious need for some exact definition of the loose expression, "the poorest peasantry," nor
for the sake of any captious criticism, but solely to point out the important fact that Lenine
only admits a part of the peasantry--the poorest--to share in the dictatorship of the proletariat.

Turning to another part of the same important document--Article III, Chapter VI, Section A,
paragraph 25--we find the basis of representation in the All-Russian Congress of Soviets stated.
There are representatives of town Soviets and representatives of provincial congresses of Soviets.
The former represent the industrial workers; the latter represent the peasants almost exclusively.
It is important, therefore, to note that there is one delegate for every twenty-five thousand
city voters and one for every one hundred and twenty-five thousand peasant voters! In Section
B of the same Article, Chapter X, paragraph 53, we find the same discrimination: it takes five
peasants' votes to equal the vote of one city voter; it was this general attitude of the Bolsheviki
toward the peasants, dividing them into classes and treating the great majority of them as
petty, rural bourgeoisie, which roused the resentment of the peasants' leaders. They naturally
insisted that the peasants constituted a distinct class, co-operating with the proletariat,
not to be ruled by it. Even Marie Spiridonova, who at first joined with the Bolsheviki, was
compelled, later on, to assert this point of view.

It is easy to understand the distrust of the Bolsheviki by the Socialist parties and groups
which represented the peasants. The latter class constituted more than 85 per cent. of the
population. Moreover, it had furnished the great majority of the fighters in the revolutionary
movement. Its leaders and spokesmen resented the idea that they were to be dictated to and
controlled by a minority, which was, as Lenine himself admitted, not materially more numerous
than the old ruling class of landowners had been. They wanted a democratic governmental system,
free from class rule, while the Bolsheviki wanted class rule. Generalizations are proverbially
perilous, and should be very cautiously made and applied to great currents of thought and of
life. But in a broad sense we may fairly say that the Socialism of the Socialist-Revolutionists
and the Mensheviki, the Socialism of Kerensky and the men who were the majority of the Constituent
Assembly, was the product of Russian life and Russian economic development, while the Socialism
that the Bolsheviki tried by force of arms to impose upon Russia was as un-Russian as it could
be. The Bolshevist conception of Socialism had its origin in Marxian theory. Both Marx and
Engels freely predicted the setting up of "a dictatorship of the proletariat"--the phrase which
the Bolsheviki have made their own.

Yet, the Bolsheviki are not Marxians. Their Socialism is as little Marxian as Russian. When
Marx and Engels forecasted the establishment of proletarian dictatorship it was part of their
theorem that economic evolution would have reduced practically all the masses to a proletarian
state; that industrial and commercial concentration would have reached such a stage of development
that there would be on the one side a small class of owners, and, on the other side, the proletariat.
There would be, they believed, no middle class. The disappearance of the middle class was,
for them and for their followers, a development absolutely certain to take place. They saw
the same process going on with the same result in agriculture. It might be less rapid in its
progress, but not one whit less certain. It was only as the inevitable climax to this evolution
that they believed the "dictatorship of the proletariat" would be achieved. In other words,
the proletariat would be composed of the overwhelming majority of the body politic and social.
That is very different from the Bolshevist attempt to set up the dictatorship of the proletariat
in a land where more than 85 per cent, of the people are peasants; where industrial development
is behind the rest of the world, and where dictatorship of the proletariat means the domination
of more than one hundred and eighty millions of people by two hundred thousand "proletarians
and the poorest peasants," according to Lenine's statement, or by six per cent. of the population
if we assume the entire proletariat to be united in the dictatorship!

V

At the time of the disturbances which took place in Petrograd in December, over the delay in
holding the Constituent Assembly, the Bolshevik government announced that the Constituante
would be permitted to convene on January 18th, provided that not less than four hundred delegates
were in attendance. Accordingly, the defenders of the Constituent Assembly arranged for a great
demonstration to take place on that day in honor of the event. It was also intended to be a
warning to the Bolsheviki not to try to further interfere with the Constituante. An earnest
but entirely peaceful mass of people paraded with flags and banners and signs containing such
inscriptions as "Proletarians of All Countries, Unite!" "Land and Liberty," "Long Live the
Constituent Assembly," and many others. They set out from different parts of the city to unite
at the Field of Mars and march to the Taurida Palace to protest against any interference with
the Constituent Assembly. As they neared the Taurida Palace they were confronted by Red Guards,
who, without any preliminary warning or any effort at persuasion, fired into the crowd. Among
the first victims was a member of the Executive Committee of the Soviet of Peasants' Delegates,
the Siberian peasant Logvinov, part of whose head was shot away by an explosive bullet. Another
victim was the militant Socialist-Revolutionist Gorbatchevskaia. Several students and a number
of workmen were also killed. Similar massacres occurred at the same time in other parts of
the city. Other processions wending their way toward the meeting-place were fired into. Altogether
one hundred persons were either killed or very seriously wounded by the Red Guards, who said
that they had received orders "not to spare the cartridges." Similar demonstrations were held
in Moscow and other cities and were similarly treated by the Red Guards. In Moscow especially
the loss of life was great. Yet the Bolshevist organs passed these tragic events over in complete
silence. They did not mention the massacres, nor did they mention the great demonstration at
the funeral of the victims, four days later.

When the Constituent Assembly was formally opened, on January 18th, it was well known on every
hand that the Bolshevik government would use force to destroy it if the deputies refused to
do exactly as they were told. The corridors were filled with armed soldiers and sailors, ready
for action.

The Lenine-Trotzky Ministry had summoned an extraordinary Congress of Soviets to meet in Petrograd
at the same time, and it was well understood that they were determined to erect this Soviet
Congress into the supreme legislative power. If the Constituent Assembly would consent to this,
so much the better, of course. In that case there would be a valuable legal sanction, the sanction
of a democratically elected body expressly charged with the task of determining the form and
manner of government for Free Russia. Should the Constituent Assembly not be willing, there
was an opportunity for another coup d'état.

In precisely the same way as the Ministry during the last years of Czarism would lay before
the Duma certain documents and demand that they be approved, so the Central Executive Committee
of the Soviets--the Bolshevik power--demanded that the Constituent Assembly meekly assent to
a document prepared for it in advance. It was at once a test and a challenge; if the Assembly
was willing to accept orders from the Soviet authority and content itself with rubber-stamping
the decrees of the latter, as ordered, it could be permitted to go on--at least for a time.
At the head of the Constituent Assembly, as president, the deputies elected Victor Chernov,
who had been Minister of Agriculture under Kerensky. At the head of the Bolshevik faction was
Sverdlov, chairman of the Executive Committee of the Soviets. He it was who opened the fight,
demanding that the following declaration be adopted by the Constituante as the basis of a Constitution
for Russia:

    DECLARATION OF THE RIGHT'S OF THE TOILING AND EXPLOITED
    PEOPLE

    I

    1. Russia is to be declared a republic of the workers', soldiers'
    and peasants' Soviets. All power in the cities and in the country
    belongs to the Soviets.

    2. The Russian Soviet Republic is based on the free federation of
    free peoples, on the federation of national Soviet republics.

    II

    Assuming as its duty the destruction of all exploitation of the
    workers, the complete abolition of the class system of society,
    and the placing of society upon a socialistic basis, and the
    ultimate bringing about of victory for Socialism in every country,
    the Constituent Assembly further decides:

    1. That the socialization of land be realized, private ownership
    of land be abolished, all the land be proclaimed common property
    of the people and turned over to the toiling masses without
    compensation on the basis of equal right to the use of land.

    All forests, mines, and waters which are of social importance, as
    well as all living and other forms of property, and all
    agricultural enterprises, are declared national property.

    2. To confirm the decree of the Soviets concerning the inspection
    of working conditions, the highest department of national economy,
    which is the first step in achieving the ownership by the Soviets
    of the factories, mines, railroads, and means of production and
    transportation.

    3. To confirm the decree of the Soviets transferring all banks to
    the ownership of the Soviet Republic, as one of the steps in the
    freeing of the toiling masses from the yoke of capitalism.

    4. To enforce general compulsory labor, in order to destroy the
    class of parasites, and to reorganize the economic life. In order
    to make the power of the toiling masses secure and to prevent the
    restoration of the rule of the exploiters, the toiling masses will
    be armed and a Red Guard composed of workers and peasants formed,
    and the exploiting classes shall be disarmed.

    III

    1. Declaring its firm determination to make society free from the
    chaos of capitalism and imperialism, which has drenched the
    country in blood in this most criminal war of all wars, the
    Constituent Assembly accepts completely the policy of the Soviets,
    whose duty it is to publish all secret treaties, to organize the
    most extensive fraternization between the workers and peasants of
    warring armies, and by revolutionary methods to bring about a
    democratic peace among the belligerent nations without annexations
    and indemnities, on the basis of the free self-determination of
    nations--at any price.

    2. For this purpose the Constituent Assembly declares its complete
    separation from the brutal policy of the bourgeoisie, which
    furthers the well-being of the exploiters in a few selected
    nations by enslaving hundreds of millions of the toiling peoples
    of the colonies and the small nations generally.

    The Constituent Assembly accepts the policy of the Council of
    People's Commissars in giving complete independence to Finland, in
    beginning the withdrawal of troops from Persia, and in declaring
    for Armenia the right of self-determination.

    A blow at international financial capital is the Soviet decree
    which annuls foreign loans made by the governments of the Czar,
    the landowners and the bourgeoisie. The Soviet government is to
    continue firmly on this road until the final victory from the yoke
    of capitalism is won through international workers' revolt.

    As the Constituent Assembly was elected on the basis of lists of
    candidates nominated before the November Revolution, when the
    people as a whole could not yet rise against their exploiters, and
    did not know how powerful would be the strength of the exploiters
    in defending their privileges, and had not yet begun to create a
    Socialist society, the Constituent Assembly considers it, even
    from a formal point of view, unjust to oppose the Soviet power.
    The Constituent Assembly is of the opinion that at this moment, in
    the decisive hour of the struggle of the people against their
    exploiters, the exploiters must not have a seat in any government
    organization or institution. The power completely and without
    exception belongs to the people and its authorized
    representatives--the workers', soldiers' and peasants' Soviets.

    Supporting the Soviet rule and accepting the orders of the Council
    of People's Commissars, the Constituent Assembly acknowledges its
    duty to outline a form for the reorganization of society.

    Striving at the same time to organize a free and voluntary, and
    thereby also a complete and strong, union among the toiling
    classes of all the Russian nations, the Constituent Assembly
    limits itself to outlining the basis of the federation of Russian
    Soviet Republics, leaving to the people, to the workers and
    soldiers, to decide for themselves, in their own Soviet meetings,
    if they are willing, and on what conditions they prefer, to join
    the federated government and other federations of Soviet
    enterprise. These general principles are to be published without
    delay, and the official representatives of the Soviets are
    required to read them at the opening of the Constituent Assembly.

The demand for the adoption of this declaration gave rise to a long and stormy debate. The
leaders of the Socialist-Revolutionists and the Mensheviki stoutly contended that the adoption
of the declaration would be virtually an abdication of the task for which the Constituent Assembly
had been elected by the people, and, therefore, a betrayal of trust. They could not admit the
impudent claim that an election held in November, based upon universal suffrage, on lists made
up as recently as September, could in January be set aside as being "obsolete" and "unrepresentative."
That a majority of the Bolshevik candidates put forward had been defeated, nullified, they
argued, the claim of the Bolsheviki that the fact that the candidates had all been nominated
before the November insurrection should be regarded as reason for acknowledging the Bolshevik
Soviet as superior to the Constituent Assembly. They insisted upon the point, which the Bolshevik
spokesmen did not attempt to controvert, that the Constituent Assembly represented the votes
of many millions of men and women,[37] while the total actual membership represented by the
Soviet power did not at the time number one hundred thousand!

As might have been expected, the proposal to adopt the declaration submitted to the Constituent
Assembly in this arrogant fashion was rejected by an enormous majority. The Bolshevik members,
who had tried to make the session a farce, thereupon withdrew after submitting a statement
in which they charged the Constituent Assembly with being a counter-revolutionary body, and
the Revolutionary-Socialist party with being a traitorous party "directing the fight of the
bourgeoisie against the workers' revolution." The statement said that the Bolshevik members
withdrew "in order to permit the Soviet power to determine what relations it would hold with
the counter-revolutionary section of the Constituent Assembly"--a threat which needed no interpretation.

After the withdrawal of the Bolshevik members, the majority very quickly adopted a declaration
which had been carefully prepared by the Socialist-Revolutionists during the weeks which had
elapsed since the elections in the preliminary conferences which had been held for that purpose.
The declaration read as follows:

    RUSSIA'S FORM OF GOVERNMENT

    In the name of the peoples who compose the Russian state, the
    All-Russian Constituent Assembly proclaims the Russian State to be
    the Russian Democratic Federated Republic, uniting indissolubly
    into one whole the peoples and territories which are sovereign
    within the limits prescribed by the Federal Constitution.

    LAWS REGARDING LAND OWNERSHIP

    1. The right to privately own land within the boundaries of the
    Russian Republic is hereby abolished forever.

    2. All land within the boundaries of the Russian Republic, with
    all mines, forests, and waters, is hereby declared the property of
    the nation.

    3. The republic has the right to control all land, with all the
    mines, forests, and waters thereof, through the central and local
    administration, in accordance with the regulation provided by the
    present law.

    4. The autonomous provinces of the Russian Republic have title to
    land on the basis of the present law and in accordance with the
    Federal Constitution.

    5. The tasks of the central and local governments as regards the
    use of lands, mines, forests, and waters are:

    a. The creation of conditions conducive to the best possible
    utilization of the country's natural resources and the highest
    possible development of its productive forces.

    b. The fair distribution of all natural wealth among the people.

    6. The rights of individuals and institutions to land, mines,
    forests, and waters are restricted merely to utilization by said
    individuals and institutions.

    7. The use of all mines, forests, land, and waters is free to all
    citizens of the Russian Republic, regardless of nationality or
    creed. This includes all unions of citizens, also governmental and
    public institutions.

    8. The right to use the land is to be acquired and discontinued on
    the basis prescribed by this fundamental law.

    9. All titles to land at present held by the individuals,
    associations, and institutions are abolished in so far as they
    contradict this law.

    10. All land, mines, forests, waters, at present owned by and
    otherwise in the possession of individuals, associations, and
    institutions, are confiscated without compensation for the loss
    incurred.

    DEMOCRATIC PEACE

    In the name of the peoples of the Russian Republic, the
    All-Russian Constituent Assembly expresses the firm will of the
    people to immediately discontinue the war and conclude a just
    and general peace, appeals to the Allied countries proposing to
    define jointly the exact terms of the democratic peace acceptable
    to all the belligerent nations, in order to present these terms,
    in behalf of the Allies, to the governments fighting against the
    Russian Republic and her allies.

    The Constituent Assembly firmly believes that the attempts of the
    peoples of Russia to end the disastrous war will meet with a
    unanimous response on the part of the peoples and the governments
    of the Allied countries, and that by common efforts a speedy peace
    will be attained, which will safeguard the well-being and dignity
    of all the belligerent countries.

    The Constituent Assembly resolves to elect from its midst an
    authorized delegation which will carry on negotiations with the
    representatives of the Allied countries and which will present the
    appeal to jointly formulate terms upon which a speedy termination
    of the war will be possible, as well as for the purpose of
    carrying out the decisions of the Constituent Assembly regarding
    the question of peace negotiations with the countries fighting
    against us.

    This delegation, which is to be under the guidance of the
    Constituent Assembly, is to immediately start fulfilling the
    duties imposed upon it.

    Expressing, in the name of the peoples of Russia, its regret that
    the negotiations with Germany, which were started without
    preliminary agreement with the Allied countries, have assumed the
    character of negotiations for a separate peace, the Constituent
    Assembly, in the name of the peoples of the Federated Republic,
    while continuing the armistice, accepts the further carrying on
    of the negotiations with the countries warring against us in
    order to work toward a general democratic peace which shall be in
    accordance "with the people's will and protect Russia's
    interests."

VI

Immediately following the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly a body of Red Guards shot
the two Constitutional Democrats, Kokoshkin and Shingariev, who were at the time confined as
prisoners who were ill in the Naval Hospital. The reason for the brutal murder of these men
was that they were bourgeoisie and, therefore, enemies of the working class! It is only just
to add that the foul deed was immediately condemned by the Bolshevik government and by the
Soviet of Petrograd. "The working class will never approve of any outrages upon our prisoners,
whatever may have been their political offense against the people and their Revolution," the
latter body declared, in a resolution on the subject of the assassinations. Two days after
the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly twenty-three Socialist-Revolutionist members of
that body, assembled at the office of their party, were arrested, and the premises occupied
by Red Guards, the procedure being exactly as it used to be in the old days under the Czar.

There is a relentless logic of life and action from which there can be no escape. Czarism was
a product of that inexorable process. All its oppression and brutality proceeded by an inevitable
and irresistible sequence from the first determination and effort to realize the principle
of autocracy. Any dictatorship, whether of a single man, a group or class, must rest ultimately
upon oppressive and coercive force. Believing that the means would be justified by the end,
Lenine and Trotzky and their associates had suppressed the Constituent Assembly, claiming that
parliamentary government, based upon the equal and free suffrage of all classes, was, during
the transition period, dangerous to the proletariat; that in its stead a new type of government
must be established--government by associations of wage-earners, soldiers, and peasants, called
Soviets.

But what if among these there should develop a purpose contrary to the purpose of the Bolsheviki?
Would men who, starting out with a belief in the Constituante, and as its champions, used force
to destroy and suppress it the moment it became evident that its purpose was not their purpose,
hesitate to suppress and destroy any Soviet movement which adopted policies contrary to their
own? What assurance could there be, once their point of view, their initial principle, was
granted, that the freedom denied to the Constituante would be assured to the Soviets? In the
very nature of the case there could be no such assurance. However honest and sincere the Bolsheviki
themselves might be in their belief that there would be such assurance, there could in fact
be none, for the logic of life is stronger than any human will.

As was inevitable, the Bolsheviki soon found themselves in the position of suppressing Soviets
which they could not control as freely and in the same manner as they had suppressed the Constituent
Assembly. When, for example, the soldiers of the Preobrajenski Regiment--the very men who helped
the Bolsheviki into power--became dissatisfied and organized, publishing their own organ, The
Soldier's Cloak, the paper was confiscated and the organization suppressed.[38] The forcible
suppression of Soviets was common. The Central Executive Committee of the National Soviet of
Peasants' Delegates, together with the old Central Executive Committee of the Soviets of Workmen's
and Soldiers' Delegates (who had never acknowledged the October elections), convoked an extraordinary
assembly of Soviets on January 8th, the same date as that on which the Bolshevik Congress of
Soviets was convoked. Circumstances compelled the opening to be deferred until two days later,
the 10th. This conference, called the Third All-Russian Congress of Peasants' Soviets, was
suppressed by force, many of the 359 delegates and all the members of the Executive Committee
being arrested. The following extract from a declaration of protest addressed by the outraged
peasants to the Congress of Soviets of Workmen, Soldiers, and Peasants convoked by the Bolshevik
government tells the story:

    As soon as the Congress was opened, sailors and Red Guards, armed
    with guns and hand-grenades, broke into the premises (11
    Kirillovskaia Street), surrounded the house, poured into the
    corridors and the session hall, and ordered all persons to leave.

    "In whose name do you order us, who are Delegates to the Peasants'
    Congress of All-Russia, to disperse?" asked the peasants.

    "In the name of the Baltic fleet," the sailor's replied.

    The peasants refused; cries of protest were raised. One by one the
    peasants ascended the tribune to stigmatize the Bolsheviki in
    speeches full of indignation, and to express the hopes that they
    placed in the Constituent Assembly....

    This session of the Congress presented a strange spectacle:
    disturbed by men who confessed that they did not know why they
    were there, the peasants sang revolutionary songs; the sailors,
    armed with guns and grenades, joined them. Then the peasants knelt
    down to sing a funeral hymn to the memory of Logvinov, whose
    coffin was even yesterday within the room. The soldiers, lowering
    their guns, knelt down also.

    The Bolshevik authorities became excited; they did not expect such
    a turn of events. "Enough said," declared the chiefs; "we have
    come not to speak, but to act. If they do not want to go to
    Smolny, let them get out of here." And they set themselves to the
    task.

    In groups of five the peasants were conducted down-stairs,
    trampled upon, and, on their refusal to go to Smolny, pushed out
    of doors during the night in the midst of the enormous city of
    which they knew nothing.

    Members of the Executive Committee were arrested,[39] the premises
    occupied by sailors and Red Guards, the objects found therein
    stolen.

    The peasants found shelter in the homes of the inhabitants of
    Petrograd, who, indignant, offered them hospitality. A certain
    number were lodged in the barracks of the Preobrajenski Regiment.
    The sailors, who but a few minutes before had sung a funeral hymn
    to Logvinov, and wept when they saw that they had understood
    nothing, now became the docile executioners of the orders of the
    Bolsheviki. And when they were asked, "Why do you do this?" they
    answered, as in the time, still recent, of Czarism: "It is the
    order. No need to talk."[40]

We do not need to rely upon the testimony of witnesses belonging to the Revolutionary Socialist
party, the Mensheviki, or other factions unfriendly to the Bolsheviki. However trustworthy
such testimony may be, and however well corroborated, we cannot expect it to be convincing
to those who pin their faith to the Bolsheviki. Such people will believe only what the Bolsheviki
themselves say about Bolshevism. It is well, therefore, that we can supplement the testimony
already given by equally definite and direct testimony from official Bolshevist sources to
the same effect. From the official organs of the Bolsheviki it can be shown that the Bolshevik
authorities suppressed Soviet after Soviet; that when they found that Soviets were controlled
by Socialists who belonged to other factions they dissolved them and ordered new elections,
refusing to permit the free choice of the members to be expressed in selecting their officers.

The Bolsheviki did this, it should be remembered, not merely in cases where Mensheviki or Socialist-Revolutionists
were in the majority, but also in cases where the majority consisted of members of the Socialist-Revolutionary
party of the Left--the faction which had united with the Bolsheviki in suppressing the Constituante.
Their union with the Bolsheviki was from the first a compromise, based upon the political opportunism
of both sides. The Socialist-Revolutionists of the Left did not believe in the Bolshevik theories
or program, but they wanted the political assistance of the Bolsheviki. The latter did not
believe in the theories or program of the Socialist-Revolutionists of the Left, but they wanted
their political support. The union could not long endure; the differences were too deeply rooted.
Before very long the Bolsheviki were fighting their former allies and the Socialist-Revolutionists
of the Left, like Marie Spiridonova, for example, were fighting the Bolsheviki. At Kazan, where
Lenine went to school, the Soviet was dissolved because it was controlled by Socialist-Revolutionists
of the Left, former allies, now hostile to the Bolsheviki. Here are two paragraphs from Izvestya,
one of the Bolshevist official organs:

    KAZAN, July 26th. As the important offices in the Soviet
    were occupied by Socialist-Revolutionists of the Left, the
    Extraordinary Commission has dissolved the Provisional Soviet. The
    governmental power is now represented by a Revolutionary
    Committee. (Izvestya, July 28, 1918.)

    KAZAN, August 1. The state of mind of the workmen is
    revolutionary. If the Mensheviki dare to carry on their
    propaganda, death menaces them. (Idem, August 3.)

And here is confirmation from another official organ of the Bolsheviki, Pravda:

    KAZAN, August 4th. The Provisional Congress of the
    Soviets of the Peasants has been dissolved because of the absence
    from it of poor peasants and because its state of mind is
    obviously counter-revolutionary. (Pravda, August 6, 1918.)

As early as April, 1918, the Soviet at Jaroslav was dissolved by the Bolshevik authorities
and new elections ordered.[41] In these elections the Mensheviki and the Socialist-Revolutionists
everywhere gained an absolute majority.[42] The population here wanted the Constituent Assembly
and they wanted Russia to fight on with the Allies. Attempts to suppress this majority led
to insurrection, which the Bolsheviki crushed in the most brutal manner, and when the people,
overpowered and helpless, sought to make peace, the Bolsheviki only increased the artillery
fire! Here is an "Official Bulletin," published in Izvestya, July 21, 1918:

    At Jaroslav the adversary, gripped in the iron ring of our troops,
    has tried to enter into negotiations. The reply has been given
    under the form of redoubled artillery fire.

Izvestya published, on July 25th, a Bolshevist military proclamation addressed to the inhabitants
of Jaroslav concerning the insurrection which originally arose from the suppression of the
Soviet and other popular assemblages:

    The General Staff notifies to the population of Jaroslav that all
    those who desire to live are invited to abandon the town in the
    course of twenty-four hours and to meet near the America Bridge.
    Those who remain will be treated as insurgents, and no quarter
    will be given to any one. Heavy artillery fire and gas-bombs will
    be used against them. All those who remain will perish In the
    ruins of the town with the insurrectionists, the traitors, and the
    enemies of the Workers' and Peasants' Revolution.

Next day, July 26th, Izvestya published the information that "after minute questionings and
full inquiry" a special commission appointed to inquire into the events relating to the insurrection
at Jaroslav had listed 350 persons as having "taken an active part in the insurrection and
had relations with the Czecho-Slovaks," and that by order of the commissioners the whole band
of 350 had been shot!

It is needless to multiply the illustrations of brutal oppression--of men and women arrested
and imprisoned for no other crime than that of engaging in propaganda in favor of government
by universal suffrage; of newspapers confiscated and suppressed; of meetings banned and Soviets
dissolved because the members' "state of mind" did not please the Bolsheviki. Maxim Gorky declared
in his Novya Zhizn that there had been "ten thousand lynchings." Upon what authority Gorky--who
was inclined to sympathize with the Bolsheviki, and who even accepted office under them--based
that statement is not known. Probably it is an exaggeration. One thing, however, is quite certain,
namely, that a reign of terror surpassing the worst days of the old régime was inflicted upon
unhappy Russia by the Bolsheviki. At the very beginning of the Bolshevik régime Trotzky laughed
to scorn all the protests against violence, threatening that resort would be had to the guillotine.
Speaking to the opponents of the Bolshevik policy in the Petrograd Soviet, he said:

"You are perturbed by the mild terror we are applying against our class enemies, but know that
not later than a month hence this terror will take a more terrible form on the model of the
terror of the great revolutionaries of France. Not a fortress, but the guillotine will be for
our enemies."

That threat was not literally carried out, but there was a near approach to it when public
hangings for civil offenses were established. For reintroducing the death penalty into the
army as a means of putting an end to treason and the brutal murder of officers by rebellious
soldiers, the Bolsheviki excoriated Kerensky. Yet they themselves introduced hanging and flogging
in public for petty civil crimes! The death penalty was never inflicted for civil crimes under
the late Czar. It was never inflicted for political offenses. Only rarely was it inflicted
for murder. It remained for a so-called "Socialist" government to resort to such savagery as
we find described in the following extract from the recognized official organ of the Bolshevik
government:

Two village robbers were condemned to death. All the people of Semenovskaia and the surrounding
communes were invited to the ceremony. On July 6th, at midday, a great crowd of interested
spectators arrived at the village of Loupia. The organizers of the execution gave to each of
the bystanders the opportunity of flogging the condemned to obtain from them supplementary
confessions. The number of blows was unlimited. Then a vote of the spectators was taken as
to the method of execution. The majority was for hanging. In order that the spectacle could
be easily seen, the spectators were ranged in three ranks--the first row sat down, the second
rested on the knee, and the third stood up.[43]

The Bolshevik government created an All-Russian Extraordinary Commission, which in turn created
Provincial and District Extraordinary Commissions. These bodies--the local not less than the
national--were empowered to make arrests and even decree and carry out capital sentences. There
was no appeal from their decisions; they were simply required to report afterward! Only members
of the Bolshevik party were immune from this terror. Alminsky, a Bolshevist writer of note,
felt called upon to protest against this hideous travesty of democratic justice, and wrote
in Pravda:

The absence of the necessary restraint makes one feel appalled at the "instruction" issued
by the All-Russian Extraordinary Commission to "All Provincial Extraordinary Commissions,"
which says: "The All-Russian Extraordinary Commission is perfectly independent in its work,
carrying out house searches, arrests, executions, of which it afterward reports to the Council
of the People's Commissaries and to the Central Executive Council." Further, the Provincial
and District Extraordinary Commissions "are independent in their activities, and when called
upon by the local Executive Council present a report of their work." In so far as house searches
and arrests are concerned, a report made afterward may result in putting right irregularities
committed owing to lack of restraint. The same cannot be said of executions.... It can also
be seen from the "instruction" that personal safety is to a certain extent guaranteed only
to members of the government, of the Central Council, and of the local Executive Committees.
With the exception of these few persons all members of the local committees of the [Bolshevik]
Party, of the Control Committees, and of the Executive Committee of the party may be shot at
any time by the decision of any Extraordinary Commission of a small district town if they happen
to be on its territory, and a report of that made afterward.[44]

VII

While in some respects, such as this terrible savagery, Bolshevism has out-Heroded Herod and
surpassed the régime of the Romanovs in cruel oppression, upon the whole its methods have been
very like that of the latter. There is really not much to choose between the ways of Stolypin
and Von Plehve and those of the Lenine-Trotzky rule. The methods employed have been very similar
and in not a few instances the same men who acted as the agents of espionage and tyranny for
the Czar have served the Bolsheviki in the same capacity. Just as under Czarism there was alliance
with the Black Hundreds and with all sorts of corrupt and vicious criminal agents, so we find
the same phenomenon recurring under the Bolsheviki. The time has not yet arrived for the compilation
of the full record of Bolshevism in this particular, but enough is known to justify the charge
here made. That agents-provocateurs, spies, informers, police agents, and pogrom-makers formerly
in the service of the Czar have been given positions of trust and honor by Lenine and Trotzky
unfortunately admits of no doubt whatever.

It was stated at a meeting of Russians held in Paris in the summer of 1917 that one of the
first Russian regiments which refused to obey orders to advance "contained 120 former political
or civil police agents out of 181 refractory soldiers." During the Kerensky régime, at the
time when Lenine was carrying on his propaganda through Pravda,[45] Vladimir Bourtzev exposed
three notorious agents of the old police terror, provocateurs, who were working on the paper.
In August, 1917, the Jewish Conjoint Committee in London published a long telegram from the
representative of the Jewish Committee in Petrograd, calling attention to the fact that Lenine's
party was working in tacit agreement with the Black Hundreds. The telegram is here given in full:

    Extreme Russian reactionaries have allied themselves closely with
    extreme revolutionaries, and Black Hundreds have entered into
    tacit coalition with the Lenine party. In the army the former
    agents and detectives of the political police carry on ardent
    campaign for defeat, and in the rear the former
    agents-provocateurs prepare and direct endless troubles.

    The motives of this policy on the part of the reactionaries are
    clear. It is the direct road to a counter-revolution. The
    troubles, the insurrections, and shocking disorders which follow
    provoke disgust at the Revolution, while the military defeats
    prepare the ground for an intervention of the old friend of the
    Russian Black Hundreds, William II, the counter-revolutionaries
    work systematically for the defeat of the Russian armies,
    sometimes openly, cynically.

    Thus in their press and proclamations they go so far as to throw
    the whole responsibility for the war and for the obstacles placed
    in the way of a peace with Germany on the Jews. It is these
    "diabolical Jews," they say, who prevent the conclusion of peace
    and insist on the continuation of the war, because they desire to
    ruin Russia. Proclamations in this sense have been found, together
    with a voluminous anti-Semitic literature, in the offices of the
    party of Lenine Bolsheviki (Maximalists), and particularly at the
    headquarters of the extreme revolutionaries, Château
    Knheshinskaja. Salutations. BLANK.

That the leaders of the Bolsheviki, particularly Lenine and Trotzky, ever entered into any
"agreement" with the Black Hundreds, or took any part in the anti-Semitic campaign referred
to, is highly improbable. Unless and until it is supported by ample evidence of a competent
nature, we shall be justified in refusing to believe anything of the sort. It is, however,
quite probable that provocateurs worming their way into Lenine's and Trotzky's good graces
tried to use the Bolshevik agitation as a cover for their own nefarious work. As we have seen
already, Lenine had previously been imposed upon by a notorious secret police agent, Malinovsky.
But the open association of the Bolsheviki with men who played a despicable rôle under the
old régime is not to be denied. The simple-minded reader of Bolshevist literature who believes
that the Bolshevik government, whatever its failings, has the merit of being a government by
real working-men and working-women, needs to be enlightened. Not only are Lenine and Trotzky
not of the proletariat themselves, but they have associated with themselves men whose lives
have been spent, not as workers, not even as simple bourgeoisie, but as servants of the terror-system
of the Czar. They have associated with themselves, too, some of the most corrupt criminals
in Russia. Here are a few of them:

Professor Kobozev, of Riga, joined the Bolsheviki and was active as a delegate to the Municipal
Council of Petrograd. According to the information possessed by the Russian revolutionary leaders,
this Professor Kobozev used to be a police spy, his special job being to make reports to the
police concerning the political opinions and actions of students and faculty members. One of
the very first men released from prison by the Bolsheviki was one Doctor Doubrovine, who had
been a leader of the Black Hundreds, an organizer of many pogroms. He became an active Bolshevik.
Kamenev, the Bolshevik leader, friend of Lenine, is a journalist. He was formerly a member
of the old Social Democratic party. Soon after the war broke out he was arrested and behaved
so badly that he was censured by his party. Early in the Revolution of 1917 he was accused
of serving the secret police at Kiev. Bonno Brouevitch, Military Councilor to the Bolshevik
government, was a well-known anti-Semite who had been dismissed from his military office on
two occasions, once by the Czar's government and once by the Provisional Government. General
Komisarov, another of Lenine's trusted military officials and advisers, was formerly a chief
official of the Czar's secret police, known for his terrible persecution of the revolutionists.
Accused of high treason by the Provisional Government, he fled, but returned and joined the
Lenine-Trotzky forces. Prince Andronikov, associate of Rasputin; (Lenine's "My friend, the
Prince"); Orlov, police agent and "denouncer" and secretary of the infamous Protopopov; Postnikov,
convicted and imprisoned as a German spy in 1910; Lepinsky, formerly in the Czar's secret police;
and Gualkine, friend of the unspeakable Rasputin, are some of the other men who have been closely
identified with the "proletarian régime" of the Bolsheviki.[46] The man they released from
prison and placed in the important position of Military Commander of Petrograd was Muraviev,
who had been chief of the Czar's police and was regarded by even the moderate members of the
Provisional Government, both under Lvov and Kerensky, as a dangerous reactionary.[47] Karl
Radek, the Bohemian, a notorious leader of the Russian Bolsheviki, who undertook to stir up
the German workers and direct the Spartacide revolt, was, according to Justice, expelled from
the German Social Democratic party before the war as a thief and a police spy.[48] How shall
we justify men calling themselves Socialists and proletarian revolutionists, who ally themselves
with such men as these, but imprison, harry, and abuse such men and women as Bourtzev, Kropotkin,
Plechanov, Breshkovskaya, Tchaykovsky, Spiridonova, Agounov, Larokine, Avksentiev, and many
other Socialists like them?

In surveying the fight of the Bolsheviki to establish their rule it is impossible to fail to
observe that their chief animus has been directed against other Socialists, rather than against
members of the reactionary parties. That this has been the fact they do not themselves deny.
For example, the "People's Commissary of Justice," G.I. Oppokov, better known as "Lomov," declared
in an interview in January, 1918: "Our chief enemies are not the Cadets. Our most irreconcilable
opponents are the Moderate Socialists. This explains the arrests of Socialists and the closing
down of Socialist newspapers. Such measures of repression are, however, only temporary."[49]
And in the Soviet at Petrograd, July 30, 1918, according to Pravda, Lachevitch, one of the
delegates, said: "The Socialist-Revolutionists of the Right and the Mensheviki are more dangerous
for the government of the Soviets than the bourgeoisie. But these enemies are not yet exterminated
and can move about freely. The proletariat must act. We ought, once for all, to rid ourselves
of the Socialist-Revolutionists of the Right and of the Mensheviki."

In this summary of the Bolsheviki war against democracy, it will be observed, no attempt has
been made to gather all the lurid and fantastic stories which have been published by sensational
journalists. The testimony comes from Socialist sources of the utmost reliability, much of
it from official Bolshevist sources. The system of oppression it describes is twin brother
to that which existed under the Romanovs, to end which hundreds of thousands of the noblest
and best of our humankind gave up their lives. Under the banner of Social Democracy a tyranny
has been established as infamous as anything in the annals of autocracy.

    "O Liberty, what monstrous crimes are committed in thy great
    name!"

CHAPTER VII

BOLSHEVIST THEORY AND PRACTICE

I

Utopia-making is among the easiest and most fascinating of all intellectual occupations. Few
employments which can be called intellectual are easier than that of devising panaceas for
the ills of society, of demonstrating on paper how the rough places of life may be made plain
and its crooked ones made straight. And it is not a vain and fruitless waste of effort and
of time, as things so easy of achievement often are. Many of the noblest minds of all lands
and all ages have found pleasure and satisfaction in the imagining of ideal commonwealths and
by so doing have rendered great service to mankind, enriching literature and, what is more
important, stimulating the urge and passion for improvement and the faith of men in their power
to climb to the farthest heights of their dreams. But the material of life is hard and lacks
the plastic quality of inspired imagination. Though there is probably no single evil which
exists for which a solution has not been devised in the wonderful laboratory of visioning,
the perversity of the subtle and mysterious thing called life is such that many great and grave
evils continue to challenge, perplex, and harass our humankind.

Yet, notwithstanding the plain lesson of history and experience, the reminder impressed on
every page of humanity's record, that between the glow and the glamour of the vision and its
actual realization stretches a long, long road, there are many simple-minded souls to whom
the vision gleamed is as the goal attained. They do not distinguish between schemes on paper
and ideals crystallized into living realities. This type of mind is far more common than is
generally recognized; that is why so many people quite seriously believe that the Bolsheviki
have really established in Russia a society which conforms to the generous ideals of social
democracy. They have read the rhetorical "decrees" and "proclamations" in which the shibboleths
of freedom and democracy abound, and are satisfied. Yet it ought to be plainly evident to any
intelligent person that, even if the decrees and proclamations were as sound as they are in
fact unsound, and as definite as they are in fact vague, they would afford no real basis for
judging Bolshevism as an actual experiment in social polity. There is, in ultimate analysis,
only one test to apply to Bolshevism--namely, the test of reality. We must ask what the Bolsheviki
did, not what they professed; what was the performance, not what was the promise.

Of course, this does not mean that we are to judge result wholly without regard to aim. Admirable
intention is still admirable as intention, even when untoward circumstance defeats it and brings
deplorable results. Bolshevism is not merely a body of belief and speculation. When the Bolsheviki
seized the government of Russia and began to attempt to carry out their ideas, Bolshevism became
a living movement in a world of reality and subject to the acid test of pragmatic criteria.
It must be judged by such a matter-of-fact standard as the extent to which it has enlarged
or diminished the happiness, health, comfort, freedom, well-being, satisfaction, and efficiency
of the greatest number of individuals. Unless the test shows that it has increased the sum
of good available for the mass, Bolshevism cannot be regarded as a gain. If, on the contrary,
the test shows that it has resulted in sensibly diminishing the sum of good available to the
greatest number of people, Bolshevism must be counted as a move in the wrong direction, as
so much effort lost. Nothing that can be urged on philosophical or moral grounds for or against
the moral or intellectual impulses that prompted it can fundamentally change the verdict. Yet,
for all that, it is well to examine the theory which inspires the practice; well to know the
manner and method of thinking, and the view of life, from which Bolshevism as a movement of
masses of men and women proceeds.

Theoretically, Bolshevism, as such, has no necessary connection with the philosophy or the
program of Socialism. Certain persons have established a working relation between Socialism,
a program, and Bolshevism, a method. The connection is not inherently logical, but, on the
contrary, wholly adventitious. As a matter of fact, Bolshevism can only be linked to the program
of Socialism by violently and disastrously weakening the latter and destroying its fundamental
character. We shall do well to remember this; to remember that the method of action, and, back
of the method, the philosophy on which it rests and from which it springs, are separate and
distinct from Socialism. They are incalculably older and they have been associated with vastly
different programs. All that is new in Bolshevism is that a very old method of action, and
a very old philosophy of action, have been seized upon by a new class which attempts to unite
them to a new program.

That is all that is implied in the "dictatorship of the proletariat." Dictatorship by small
minorities is not a new political phenomenon. All that is new when the minority attempting
to establish its dictatorship is composed of poor, propertyless people, is the fact of their
economic condition and status. That is the only difference between the dictatorship of Russia
by the Romanov dynasty and the dictatorship of Russia by a small minority of determined, class-conscious
working-people. It is not only the precise forms of oppressive power used by them that are
identically characteristic of Czarism and Bolshevism, but their underlying philosophy. Both
forms of dictatorship rest upon the philosophy of might as the only valid right. Militarism,
especially as it was developed under Prussian leadership, has exactly the same philosophy and
aims at the same general result, namely, to establish the domination and control of society
by a minority class. The Bolsheviki have simply inverted Czarism and Militarism.

What really shocks the majority of people is not, after all, the methods or the philosophy
of Bolshevism, but the fact that the Bolsheviki, belonging to a subject class, have seized
upon the methods and philosophy of the most powerful ruling classes and turned them to their
own account. There is a class morality and a class psychology the subtle influences of which
few perceive as a matter of habit, which, however, to a great extent shape our judgments, our
sympathies, and our antipathies. Men who never were shocked when a Czar, speaking the language
of piety and religion, indulged in the most infamous methods and deeds of terror and oppression,
are shocked beyond all power of adequate expression when former subjects of that same Czar,
speaking the language of the religion of democracy and freedom, resort to the same infamous
methods of terror and oppression.

II

The idea that a revolting proletarian minority might by force impose its rule upon society
runs through the history of the modern working class, a note of impatient, desperate, menacing
despair. The Bolsheviki say that they are Marxian Socialists; that Marx believed in and advocated
the setting up, during the transitory period of social revolution, of the "dictatorship of
the proletariat." They are not quite honest in this claim, however; they are indulging in verbal
tricks. It is true that Marx taught that the proletarian dominion of society, as a preliminary
to the abolition of all class rule of every kind, must be regarded as certain and inevitable.
But it is not honest to claim the sanction of his teaching for the seizure of political power
by a small class, consisting of about 6 per cent. of the population, and the imposition by
force of its rule upon the majority of the population that is either unwilling or passive.
That is the negation of Marxian Socialism. It is the essence of Marx's teaching that the social
revolution must come as a historical necessity when the proletariat itself comprises an overwhelming
majority of the people.

Let us summarize the theory as it appears in the Communist Manifesto: Marx begins by setting
forth the fact that class conflict is as old as civilization itself, that history is very largely
the record of conflicts between contending social classes. In our epoch, he argues, class conflict
is greatly simplified; there is really only one division, that which divides the bourgeoisie
and the proletariat: "Society as a whole is more and more splitting up into great hostile camps,
into two great classes directly facing each other, bourgeoisie and proletariat." ... "With
the development of industry the proletariat not only increases in numbers; it becomes concentrated
in great masses, its strength grows, and it feels that strength more." ... "The proletarian
movement is the self-conscious, independent movement of the immense majority in the interests
of the immense majority." It is this "immense majority" that is to establish its dominion.
Marx expressly points out that "all previous historical movements were movements of minorities,
or in the interest of minorities." It is the great merit of the movement of the proletariat,
as he conceives it, that it is the "movement of the immense majority, in the interests of the
immense majority."

Clearly, when Lenine and his followers say that they take their doctrine of the "dictatorship
of the proletariat" from Marx, they pervert the truth; they take from Marx only the phrase,
not their fundamental policy. It is not to be denied that there were times when Marx himself
momentarily lapsed into the error of Blanqui and the older school of Utopian, conspiratory
Socialists who believed that they could find a short cut to social democracy; that by a surprise
stroke, carefully prepared and daringly executed, a small and desperate minority could overthrow
the existing social order and bring about Socialism. As Jaurès has pointed out,[50] the mind
of Marx sometimes harked back to the dramatic side of the French Revolution, and was captivated
by such episodes as the conspiracy of Babeuf and his friends, who in their day, while the proletariat
was a small minority, even as it is in Russia now, sought to establish its dominion. But it
is well known that after the failure of the Paris Commune, in 1871, Marx once and for all abandoned
all belief in this form of the "dictatorship of the proletariat," and in the possibility of
securing Socialism through the conspiratory action of minorities. He was even rather unwilling
that the Manifesto should be republished after that, except as a purely historical document.
It was in that spirit of reaction that he and Engels wrote in 1872 that passage--to which Lenine
has given such an unwarranted interpretation--in which they say that the Commune had shown
that "the working classes cannot simply take possession of the ready-made state machine and
set it in motion for their own aims."

It was no less an interpreter of Marx than his great collaborator and friend, Frederick Engels,
who, in 1895, stated the reasons for abandoning all belief in the possibility of accomplishing
anything through political surprises and through the action of small conscious and determined
minorities at the head of unconscious masses:

    History proved that we were wrong--we and those who like us, in
    1848, awaited the speedy success of the proletariat. It became
    perfectly clear that economic conditions all over the Continent
    were by no means as yet sufficiently matured for superseding the
    capitalist organization of production. This was proved by the
    economic revolution which commenced on the continent of Europe
    after 1848 and developed in France, Austria-Hungary, Poland, and,
    recently, also in Russia, and made Germany into an industrial
    state of the first rank--all on a capitalist basis, which shows
    that in 1848 the prevailing conditions were still capable of
    expansion. It is surely less
than honest to claim the prestige and authority of Marx's teachings upon
the slender basis of a distorted version of his early thought, while
completely ignoring the matured body of his doctrines. It may not matter
much to the world to-day what Marx thought, or how far Lenine follows his
teachings, but it is of importance that the claim set up by Lenine and
Trotzky and many of their followers that they are guided by the principles
of Marxian Socialism is itself demonstrably an evidence of moral or
intellectual obliquity, which makes them very dangerous guides to follow.
It is of importance, too, that the claim they make allures many Socialists
of trusting and uncritical minds to follow them.

Many times in his long life Marx, together with Engels, found himself engaged in a fierce war
against the very things Lenine and Trotzky and their associates have been trying to do. He
thundered against Weitling, who wanted to have a "daring minority" seize the power of the state
and establish its dictatorship by a coup d'état. He was denounced as a "reactionary" by Willich
and Kinkel because, in 1850, he rejected with scorn the idea of a sudden seizure of political
power through conspiratory action, and had the courage to say that it would take fifty years
for the workers "to fit themselves for political power." He opposed Lassalle's idea of an armed
insurrection in 1862, because he was certain that the economic development had not yet reached
the stage which alone could make a social change possible. He fought with all the fierce impetuousness
of his nature every attempt of Bakunin to lead the workers to attempt the seizure of political
power and forcibly establish their rule while still a minority.[52] He fought all these men
because he had become profoundly convinced that "no social order ever disappears before all
the productive forces for which there is room in it have been developed; and new and higher
relations of production never appear before the material conditions of their existence have
matured in the womb of the old society."[53] No "dictatorship of the proletariat," no action
by any minority, however well armed or however desperate, can overcome that great law.

The "dictatorship of the proletariat" in the sense in which that term is used by the Russian
Bolshevik leaders, and by those who in other countries are urging that their example be followed,
is not a policy of Marxian Socialism. It is not a product of modern conditions. Rather it harks
back to the earlier conspiratory Socialism of Blanqui, with its traditions inherited from Robespierre
and Babeuf. So far as its advocates are concerned, Marx and the whole modern Socialist movement
might as well never have existed at all. They take us back three-quarters of a century, to
the era before Marx, to that past so remote in intellectual and moral character, though recent
in point of time, when the working class of no country in Europe possessed the right to vote--when
the workers were indeed proletarians and not citizens; not only propertyless, but also "without
a fatherland."

In truth, it is not difficult to understand how this theory has found acceptance in Russia.
It was not difficult to understand why Marx's doctrine of economic evolution was for many years
rejected by most Russian Socialists; why the latter took the view that Socialism must be more
quickly attained, that capitalism was not a necessary precursor of Socialism in Russia, but
that an intelligent leadership of passive masses would successfully establish Socialism on
the basis of the old Russian communal institutions. It was quite easy to understand the change
that came with Russia's industrial awakening, how the development of factory production gave
an impetus to the Marxian theories. And, though it presents a strange paradox, in that it comes
at a time when, despite everything, Russian capitalism continues to develop, it is really not
difficult to understand how and why pre-Marxian conceptions reappear in that great land of
paradoxes. Politically and intellectually the position of the proletariat of Russia before
the recent Revolution was that of the proletariat of France in 1848.

But that which baffles the mind of the serious investigator is the readiness of so many presumably
intelligent people living in countries where--as in America--wholly different conditions prevail
to ignore the differences and be ready to abandon all the democratic advance made by the workers.
There is nothing more certain in the whole range of social and political life than the fact
that the doctrine that the power of the state must be seized and used by the proletariat against
the non-proletarian classes, even for a relatively brief period, can only be carried out by
destroying all the democracy thus far achieved.

III

The validity of the foregoing contention can scarcely be questioned, except by those to whom
phrases are of more consequence than facts, who place theories above realities. The moment
the Bolsheviki tried to translate their rhetorical propaganda for the dictatorship of the proletariat
into the concrete terms of political reality they found that they were compelled to direct
their main opposition, not against the bourgeoisie, or even against capitalism, but against
the newly created democracy. In the movement to create a democratic government resting upon
the basis of universal, direct, equal, and secret suffrage they saw a peril to their scheme
far more formidable than militarism or capitalism. It was for this reason that they set themselves
to the task of suppressing the Constituent Assembly. Only political simpletons will seriously
regard the Bolshevik attempt to camouflage their motive by pretending that they determined
to crush the Constituent Assembly because its members were elected on a register that was "obsolete"
and therefore no longer truly represented the people.

The German Spartacides, who were acting in full accord with the Russian Bolsheviki, had not
that miserable excuse. Yet they set out by force of arms to prevent any election being held.
In this they were quite consistent; they wanted to set up a dictatorship, and they knew that
the overwhelming mass of the people wanted something very different. At a dinner of the Inter-Collegiate
Socialist Society in New York, in December, 1918, a spokesman for the German variety of Bolshevism
blandly explained that "Karl Liebknecht and his comrades know that they cannot hope to get
a majority, therefore they are determined that no elections shall be held. They will prevent
this by force. After some time, perhaps, when a proletarian régime has existed long enough,
and people have become convinced of the superiority of the Socialist way, or at least grown
used to it, and it is safe to do so, popular elections may be permitted." Incredible as it
seems, this declaration was received with cheers by an audience which only a few minutes before
had cheered with equal fervor denunciations of "encroachments upon American democracy."

Curiously enough, the precise manner in which the Bolsheviki have acted against democracy was
set forth, as far back as 1850, by a German, Johann von Miquel, in a letter to Karl Marx. Miquel
was born in Hanover, but his ancestors were of French origin. He studied at Heidelberg and
Göttingen, and became associated with the Socialist movement of the period. He settled down
to the practice of law, however, and when Hanover was annexed by Prussia he entered the Prussian
parliament. After the "dismissal of the pilot," Bismarck, he became Prussian Minister of Finance,
holding that position for ten years. Liebknecht referred to him as "my former comrade in communismo
and present Chancellor in re." This Miquel, while he was still a Socialist, in 1850 wrote to
Marx as follows:

    The workers' party may succeed against the upper middle class and
    what remains of the feudal element, but it will be attacked on
    its flank by the democracy. We can perhaps give an anti-bourgeois
    tone to the Revolution for a little while, we can destroy the
    essential conditions of bourgeois production; but we cannot
    possibly put down the small tradesmen and shopkeeping class, the
    petty bourgeoisie. My motto is to secure all we can get. We should
    prevent the lower and middle class from forming any organizations
    for as long a time as possible after the first victory, and
    especially oppose ourselves in serried ranks to the plan of
    calling a Constitutional Assembly. Partial terrorism, local
    anarchy, must replace for us what we lack in bulk.

What a remarkable anticipation of the Bolshevist methods of 1917-18 is thus outlined in this
letter, written sixty-seven years before the Bolshevik coup d'état! How literally Lenine, Trotzky
and Co. have followed Herr von Miquel! They have desperately tried to "give an anti-bourgeois
tone to the Revolution," denouncing as bourgeois reactionaries the men and women whose labors
and sacrifices have made the Russian Socialist movement. They have destroyed "the essential
conditions" of bourgeois and of any other than the most primitive production. They have set
themselves in serried ranks in opposition to "the plan of calling a Constitutional Assembly."
They have suppressed not only the organizations of the "lower and middle class," but also those
of a great part of the working class, thus going beyond Miquel. Finally, to replace what they
lack in bulk, they have resorted to "partial terrorism and local anarchy."

And it is in the name of revolutionary progress, of ultra-radicalism, that we are called upon
to revert to the tactics of desperation born of the discouraging conditions of nearly seventy
years ago. A new philosophy has taken possession of the easily possessed minds of Greenwich
Village philosophers and parlor revolutionists--a new philosophy of progress, according to
which revolutionary progress consists in the unraveling by feverish fingers of the fabric woven
through years of sacrifice; in abandoning high levels attained for the lower levels from which
the struggles of the past raised us; in harking back to the thoughts and the tactics of men
who shouted their despairing, defiant cries into the gloom of the blackest period of the nineteenth
century!

Universal, secret, equal, and direct suffrage was a fact in Russia, the first great achievement
of the Revolution. Upon that foundation, and upon no other, it was possible to build an enduring,
comprehensive social democracy. Against that foundation the Bolsheviki hurled their destructive
power, creating a discriminating class suffrage, disfranchising a great part of the Russian
people--not merely the bourgeoisie, but a considerable part of the working class itself. Chapter
XIII of Article 4 of the Constitution of the "Russian Socialist Federated Soviet Republic"
sets forth the qualifications for voting, as follows:

    THE RIGHT TO VOTE

    CHAPTER THIRTEEN

    64. The right to vote and to be elected to the Soviets is enjoyed
    by the following citizens, irrespective of religion, nationality,
    domicile, etc., of the Russian Socialist Federated Soviet
    Republic, of both sexes, who shall have completed their eighteenth
    year by the day of election:

    a. All who have acquired the means of living through labor that is
    productive and useful to society, and also persons engaged in
    housekeeping which enables the former to do productive work--i.e.,
    laborers and employees of all classes who are employed in
    industry, trade, agriculture, etc.; and peasants and Cossack
    agricultural laborers who employ no help for the purpose of making
    profits.

    b. Soldiers of the army and navy of the Soviets.

    c. Citizens of the two preceding categories who have to any degree
    lost their capacity to work.

    Note 1: Local Soviets may, upon approval of the central power,
    lower the age standard mentioned herein.

    Note 2: Non-citizens mentioned in Paragraph 20 (Article 2, Chapter
    Five) have the right to vote.

    65.

Apparently the Constitution does not provide any standard for determining what labor is "useful
and productive to society," and leaves the way open for a degree of arbitrariness on the part
of some authority or other that is wholly incompatible with any generally accepted ideal of
freedom and democracy. It is apparent from the text of paragraph 64, subdivision "a" of the
foregoing chapter that housekeeping as such is not included in the category of "labor that
is productive and useful to society," for a separate category is made of it.

This seems to mean that persons engaged in housekeeping can only vote if and when they are
so engaged in order to enable other persons than themselves to do "productive work." It appears
that housekeeping for persons not engaged in such productive work--for children, for example--would
not confer the right to vote. It is not possible to tell with certainty what it does mean,
however, for there is probably not a single person in Russia or in the world who can tell exactly
what this precious instrument actually means. What standard is to be established to determine
what labor is "productive" and "useful"? Is the journalist, for instance, engaged in useful
and productive labor? Is the novelist? is the agitator? Presumably the journalist employed
in defending the Soviet Republic against attacks by unfriendly critics would be doing useful
work and be entitled to vote, but what about the journalist employed in making the criticisms?
Would the wife of the latter, no matter how much she might disagree with her husband's views,
be barred from voting, simply because she was "engaged in housekeeping" for one whose labors
were not regarded "productive and useful to society"? If the language used means anything at
all, apparently she would be so disfranchised.

Upon what ground is it decided that the "private merchant" may not vote? Certainly it is not
because his labor is of necessity neither productive nor useful, for paragraph 65 says that
even though belonging to one of the categories of persons otherwise qualified to vote, the
private merchant may "enjoy neither the right to vote nor to be voted for." The keeper of a
little grocery store, even though his income is not greater than that of a mechanic, and despite
the fact that his store meets a local need and makes his services, therefore, "useful" in the
highest degree, cannot enjoy civic rights, simply because he is a "merchant"! The clergy of
all denominations are excluded from the franchise. It does not matter, according to this constitution,
that a minister belongs to a church independent of any connection with the state, that he is
elected by people who desire his services and is paid by them, that he satisfies them and is
therefore doing a "useful service"--if utility means the satisfying of needs--because he is
so employed he cannot vote. A peasant who hires no assistance may vote, but if he decides that
by employing a boy to help him he will be able to give better attention to certain crops and
make more money, even though he pays the boy every penny that the service is worth, judged
by any standard whatever, he loses his vote and his civic status because, forsooth, he has
gained in his net income as a result of his enterprise. And this is seriously put forward as
the basis of government in a nation needing an intense and universal stimulation of its economic
production.

A militant suffragist friend of mine, whose passion for universal suffrage in America is so
great that it leads her to join in all sorts of demonstrations protesting against the failure
of the United States Senate to pass the Susan B. Anthony amendment--even leading her to join
in the public burning of President Wilson's speeches, a queer emulation of the ancient ecclesiastical
bigotry of burning heretical books!--manages to unite to her passion for equal and unrestricted
suffrage an equally passionate admiration for the Bolsheviki, arch-enemies of equal and unrestricted
suffrage. Her case is not exceptional: it is rather typical of the Bolshevik following in England
and in America. Such minds are not governed and directed by rational processes, but by emotional
impulses, generally of pathological origin.

What the Bolshevik constitution would mean if practically applied to American life to-day can
be briefly indicated. The following classes would certainly be entitled to vote and to be elected
to office:

1. All wage-earners engaged in the production of goods and utilities regarded by some designated
authority as "productive and useful to society."

2. Teachers and educators engaged in the public service.

3. All farmers owning and working their own farms without hired help of any kind.

4. All wage-earners engaged in the public service as employees of the state, subdivisions of
the state, or public service corporations-such as postal clerks, street-railway workers, electricians,
and so on.

5. Wives and others engaged in keeping the homes of the foregoing, so as to enable them to work.

6. The "soldiers of the army and navy"--whether all officers are included is not clear from
the text.

Now let us see what classes would be as certainly excluded from the right to vote and to be
voted for.

1. Every merchant from the keeper of a corner grocery store to the owner of a great mercantile
establishment.

2. Every banker, every commission agent, every broker, every insurance agent, every real-estate
dealer.

3. Every farmer who hires help of any kind--even a single "hand."

4. Every petty contractor, garage-keeper, or other person employing any hired help whatever,
including the professional writer who hires a stenographer, the doctor who hires a chauffeur,
and the dentist who hires a mechanic assistant.

5. Every clergyman and minister of the Gospel.

6. Every person whose income is derived from inherited wealth or from invested earnings, including
all who live upon annuities provided by gift or bequest.

7. Every person engaged in housekeeping for persons included in any of the foregoing six categories--including
the wives of such disqualified persons.

There are many occupational groups whose civic status is not so easily defined. The worker
engaged in making articles of luxury, enjoyed only by the privileged few, could hardly have
a better claim to a vote than the housekeeper of a man whose income was derived from foreign
investments, or than the chauffeur of a man whose income was derived from government bonds.
All three represent, presumably, types of that parasitic labor which subjects those engaged
in it to disfranchisement. Apparently, though not certainly, then, the following would also
be disfranchised:

1. All lawyers except those engaged by the public authorities for the public service.

2. All teachers and educators other than those engaged in the public service.

3. All bankers, managers of industries, commercial travelers, experts, and accountants except
those employed in the public service, or whose labor is judged by a competent tribunal to be
necessary and useful.

4. All editors, journalists, authors of books and plays, except as special provision might
be provided for individuals.

5. All persons engaged in occupations which a competent tribunal decided to classify as non-essential
or non-productive.

Any serious attempt to introduce such restrictions and limitations of the right of suffrage
in America would provoke irresistible revolt. It would be justly and properly regarded as an
attempt to arrest the forward march of the nation and to turn its energies in a backward direction.
It would be just as reactionary in the political world as it would be in the industrial world
to revert back to hand-tool production; to substitute the ox-team for the railway system, the
hand-loom for the power-loom, the flail for the threshing-machine, the sickle for the modern
harvesting-machine, the human courier for the electric telegraph.

Yet we find a radical like Mr. Max Eastman giving his benediction and approval to precisely
such a program in Russia as a substitute for universal suffrage. We find him quoting with apparent
approval an article setting forth Lenine's plan, hardly disguised, to disfranchise every farmer
who employs even a single hired helper.[54]

Lenine's position is quite clear. "Only the proletariat leading on the poorest peasants (the
semi-proletariat as they are called in our program) ... may undertake the steps toward Socialism
that have become absolutely unavoidable and non-postponable.... The peasants want to retain
their small holdings and to arrive at some place of equal distribution.... So be it. No sensible
Socialist will quarrel with a pauper peasant on this ground. If the lands are confiscated,
so long as the proletarians rule in the great centers, and all political power is handed over
to the proletariat, the rest will take care of itself."[55] Yet, in spite of Lenine's insistence
that all political power be "handed over to the proletariat," in spite of a score of similar
utterances which might be quoted, and, finally, in spite of the Soviet Constitution which so
obviously excludes from the right to vote a large part of the adult population, an American
Bolshevist pamphleteer has the effrontery to insult the intelligence of his readers by the
stupidly and palpably false statement that "even at the present time 95 per cent. in Russia
can vote, while in the United States only about 65 per cent. can vote."[56]

Of course it is only as a temporary measure that this dictatorship of a class is to be maintained.
It is designed only for the period of transition and adjustment. In time the adjustment will
be made, all forms of social parasitism and economic exploitation will disappear, and then
it will be both possible and natural to revert to democratic government. Too simple and naïve
to be trusted alone in a world so full of trickery and tricksters as ours are they who find
any asurance in this promise. They are surely among the most gullible of our humankind!

Of course, the answer to the claim is a very simple one: it is that no class gaining privilege
and power ever surrenders it until it is compelled to do so. Every one who has read the pre-Marxian
literature dealing with the dictatorship of the proletariat knows how insistent is the demand
that the period of dictatorship must be prolonged as much as possible. Even Marx himself insisted,
on one occasion at least, that it must be maintained as long as possible,[57] and in the letter
of Johann von Miquel, already quoted, we find the same thought expressed in the same terms,
"as long as possible." But even if we put aside these warnings of human experience and of recorded
history, and persuade ourselves that in Russia we have a wholly new phenomenon, a class possessing
powers of dictatorship animated by a burning passion to relinquish those powers as quickly
as possible, is it not still evident that the social adjustments that must be made to reach
the stage where, according to the Bolshevik standards, political democracy can be introduced,
must, under the most favorable circumstances conceivable, take many, many years? Even Lenine
admits that "a sound solution of the problem of increasing the productivity of labor" (which
lies at the very heart of the problem we are now discussing) "requires at least (especially
after a most distressing and destructive war) several years."[58]

From the point of view of social democracy the basis of the Bolshevik state is reactionary
and unsound. The true Socialist policy is that set forth by Wilhelm Liebknecht in the following
words: "The political power which the Social Democracy aims at and which it will win, no matter
what its enemies may do, has not for its object the establishment of the dictatorship of the
proletariat, but the suppression of the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie."[59]

IV

Democracy in government and in industry must characterize any system of society which can be
justly called Socialist. Thirteen years ago I wrote, "Socialism without democracy is as impossible
as a shadow without light."[60] That seemed to me then, as it seems to-day, axiomatic. And
so the greatest Socialist thinkers and leaders always regarded it. "We have perceived that
Socialism and democracy are inseparable," declared William Liebknecht, the well-beloved, in
1899.[61] Thirty years earlier, in 1869, he had given lucid expression to the same conviction
in these words: "Socialism and democracy are not the same, but they are only different expressions
of the same fundamental idea.

Everywhere the organized working class aspires to attain that industrial democracy which is
the counterpart of political democracy. Syndicalism, with all its vagaries, its crude reversal
to outworn ideas and methods, is, nevertheless, fundamentally an expression of that yearning.
It is the same passion that lies back of the Shop Stewards' movement in England, and that inspires
the much more patiently and carefully developed theories and plans of the advocates of "Guild
Socialism." Motived by the same desire, our American labor-unions are demanding, and steadily
gaining, an increasing share in the actual direction of industry. Joint control by boards composed
of representatives of employers, employees, and the general public is, to an ever-increasing
extent, determining the conditions of employment, wage standards, work standards, hours of
labor, choice and conduct of foremen, and many other matters of vital importance to the wage-earners.
That we are still a long way from anything like industrial democracy is all too painfully true
and obvious, but it is equally obvious that we are struggling toward the goal, and that there
is a serious purpose and intention to realize the ideal.

Impelled by the inexorable logic of its own existence as a dictatorship, the Bolshevik government
has had to set itself against any and every manifestation of democracy in industry with the
same relentless force as it opposed democracy in government. True, owing to the fact that,
following the line of industrial evolution, the trade-union movement was not strongly enough
developed to even attempt any organization for the expression of industrial democracy comparable
to the Constituent Assembly. It is equally true, however, that had such an organization existed
the necessity to suppress it, as the political organization was suppressed, would have proceeded
inevitably and irresistibly from the creation of a dictatorship. There cannot be, in any country,
as co-existent forces, political dictatorship and industrial democracy. It is also true that
such democratic agencies as there were existing the Bolsheviki neglected.

That the Bolsheviki did not establish industrial democracy in its fullest sense is not to be
charged to their discredit. Had Bolshevism never appeared, and had the Constituent Assembly
been permitted to function unmolested and free, it would have taken many years to realize anything
like a well-rounded industrial democracy, for which a highly developed industrial system is
absolutely essential. The leaders of the Bolshevik movement recognized from the first that
the time had not yet arrived for even attempting to set up a Socialist commonwealth based on
the social ownership and democratic control of industry. Lenine frankly declared that "Socialism
cannot now prevail in Russia,"[64] and Trotzky said, a month after the coup d'état: "We are
not ready yet to take over all industry.... For the present, we expect of the earnings of a
factory to pay the owner 5 or 6 per cent. yearly on his actual investment. What we aim at now
is control rather than ownership."[65] He did not tell Professor Ross, who records this statement,
on what grounds the owner of the property thus controlled by the Soviet government, and who
thus becomes a partner of the government, is to be excluded from the exercise of the franchise.
But let that pass.

When the Bolsheviki seized the power of the state, they found themselves confronted by a terrific
task. Russia was utterly demoralized. An undeveloped nation industrially, war and internal
strife had wrought havoc with the industrial life she had. Her railways were neglected and
the whole transportation system, entirely inadequate even for peace needs, had, under the strain
of the war, fallen into chaos. After the March Revolution, as a natural consequence of the
intoxication of the new freedom, such disciplines as had existed were broken down. Production
fell off in a most alarming manner. During the Kerensky régime Skobelev, as Minister of Labor,
repeatedly begged the workers to prove their loyalty to the Revolution by increased exertion
and faithfulness in the workshops and factories. The Bolsheviki, on their part, as a means
of fighting the Provisional Government, preached the opposite doctrine, that of sabotage. In
every manner possible they encouraged the workers to limit production, to waste time and materials,
strike for trivial reasons, and, in short, do all that was possible to defeat the effort to
place industry upon a sound basis.

When they found themselves in possession of the powers of government the
Bolshevik leaders soon had to face the stern realities of the conditions
essential to the life of a great nation. They could not escape the
necessity of intensifying production. They had not only promised peace, but
bread, and bread comes only from labor. Every serious student of the
problem has realized that the first great task of any Socialist society
must be to increase the productivity of labor. It is all very well for a
popular propaganda among the masses to promise a great reduction in the
hours of labor and, at the same time, a great improvement in the standards
of living. The translation of such promises into actual achievements must
prove to be an enormous task. To build the better homes, make the better
and more abundant clothing, shoes, furniture, and other things required to
fulfil the promise, will require a great deal of labor, and such an
organization of industry upon a basis of efficiency as no nation has yet
developed. If the working class of this or any other country should take
possession of the existing organization of production, there would not be
enough in the fund now going to the capitalist class to satisfy the
requirements of the workers, even if not a penny of compensation were paid
to the expropriated owners. Kautsky, among others, has courageously faced
this fact and insisted that "it will be one of the imperative tasks of the
Social Revolution not simply to continue, but to increase production; the
victorious proletariat must extend production rapidly if it is to be able
to satisfy the enormous demands that will be made upon the new régime."[66]
 From the first
this problem had to be faced by the Bolshevik government. We find Lenine
insisting that the workers must be inspired with "idealism, self-sacrifice,
and persistence" to turn out as large a product as possible; that the
productivity of labor must be raised and a high level of industrial
performance as the duty of every worker be rigorously insisted upon. It is
not enough to have destroyed feudalism and the monarchy:

    In every Socialist revolution, however, the main task of the
    proletariat, and of the poorest peasantry led by it--and, hence,
    also in the Socialist revolution in Russia inaugurated by us on
    November 7, 1917, consists in the positive and constructive work
    of establishing an extremely complex and delicate net of newly
    organized relationships covering the systematic production and
    distribution of products which are necessary for the existence of
    tens of millions of people. The successful realization of such a
    revolution depends on the original historical creative work of the
    majority of the population, and first of all of the majority of
    the toilers. The victory of the Socialist revolution will not be
    assured unless the proletariat and the poorest peasantry manifest
    sufficient consciousness, idealism, self-sacrifice, and
    persistence. With the creation of a new--the Soviet--type of
    state, offering to the oppressed toiling masses the opportunity to
    participate actively in the free construction of a new society, we
    have solved only a small part of the difficult task. The main
    difficulty is in the economic domain; to raise the productivity of
    labor, to establish strict and universal accounting and control of
    production and distribution, and actually to socialize
    production.[67]

Lenine recognizes, as every thoughtful person must, that this task of organizing production
and distribution cannot be undertaken by "the proletariat and the poorest peasants." It requires
a vast amount of highly developed technical knowledge and skill, the result of long training
and superior education. This kind of service is so highly paid, in comparison with the wages
paid to the manual workers, that it lifts those who perform the service and receive the high
salaries into the ranks of the bourgeoisie. Certainly, even though they are engaged in performing
work of the highest value and the most vital consequence, the specialists, experts, and directing
managers of industry are not of the "working class," as that term is commonly employed. And
no matter how we may speculate upon the possible attainment of approximate equality of income
in some future near or remote, the fact is that the labor of such men can only be secured by
paying much more than is paid to the manual workers.

Quite wisely, the Bolshevik government decided that it must have such services, no matter that
they must be highly paid for; that they could only be rendered by the hated bourgeoisie and
that, in consequence, certain compromises and relations with the bourgeoisie became necessary
the moment the services were engaged. The Bolshevik government recognized the imperative necessity
of the service which only highly paid specialists could give and wisely decided that no prejudice
or theory must be permitted to block the necessary steps for Russia's reconstruction. In a
spirit of intelligent opportunism, therefore, they subordinated shibboleths, prejudices, dogmas,
and theories to Russia's necessity. The sanity of this opportunistic attitude is altogether
admirable, but it contrasts strangely with the refusal to co-operate with the bourgeoisie in
establishing a stable democratic government--no less necessary for Russia's reconstruction
and for Socialism. As a matter of fact, the very promptitude and sanity of their opportunism
when faced by responsibility, serves to demonstrate the truth of the contention made in these
pages, that in refusing to co-operate with others in building up a permanently secure democratic
government, they were actuated by no high moral principle, but simply by a desire to gain power.
The position of Russia to-day would have been vastly different if the wisdom manifested in
the following paragraphs had governed Lenine and his associates in the days when Kerensky was
trying to save Russian democracy:

    Without the direction of specialists of different branches of
    knowledge, technique, and experience, the transformation toward
    Socialism is impossible, for Socialism demands a conscious mass
    movement toward a higher productivity of labor in comparison with
    capitalism and on the basis which had been attained by capitalism.
    Socialism must accomplish this movement forward in its own way, by
    its own methods--to make it more definite, by Soviet methods. But
    the specialists are inevitably bourgeois on account of the whole
    environment of social life which made them specialists.... In view
    of the considerable delay in accounting and control in general,
    although we have succeeded in defeating sabotage, we have not
    yet created an environment which would put at our disposal the
    bourgeois specialists. Many sabotagers are coming into our
    service, but the best organizers and the biggest specialists can
    be used by the state either in the old bourgeois way (that is, for
    a higher salary) or in the new proletarian way (that is, by
    creating such an environment of universal accounting and control
    which would inevitably and naturally attract and gain the
    submission of specialists). We were forced now to make use of the
    old bourgeois method and agree to a very high remuneration for the
    services of the biggest of the bourgeois specialists. All those
    who are acquainted with the facts understand this, but not all
    give sufficient thought to the significance of such a measure on
    the part of the proletarian state. It is clear that the measure
    is a compromise, that it is a defection from the principles of the
    Paris Commune and of any proletarian rule, which demand the
    reduction of salaries to the standard of remuneration of the
    average workers--principles which demand that "career hunting" be
    fought by deeds, not words.

    Furthermore, it is clear that such a measure is not merely a halt
    in a certain part and to a certain degree of the offensive against
    capitalism (for capitalism is not a quantity of money, but a
    definite social relationship), but also a step backward by our
    Socialist Soviet state, which has from the very beginning
    proclaimed and carried on a policy of reducing high salaries to
    the standard of wages of the average worker.

    ... The corrupting influence of high salaries is beyond
    question--both on the Soviets ... and on the mass of the workers.
    But all thinking and honest workers and peasants will agree with
    us and will admit that we are unable to get rid at once of the
    evil heritage of capitalism.... The sooner we ourselves, workers
    and peasants, learn better labor discipline and a higher technique
    of toil, making use of the bourgeois specialists for this purpose,
    the sooner we will get rid of the need of paying tribute to these
    specialists.[68]

We find the same readiness to compromise and to follow the line of least resistance in dealing
with the co-operatives. From 1906 onward there had been an enormous growth of co-operatives
in Russia. They were of various kinds and animated by varied degrees of social consciousness.
They did not differ materially from the co-operatives of England, Belgium, Denmark, Italy,
or Germany except in the one important particular that they relied upon bourgeois Intellectuals
for leadership and direction to a greater extent than do the co-operatives in the countries
named. They were admirably fitted to be the nuclei of a socialized system of distribution.
Out of office the Bolsheviki had sneered at these working-class organizations and denounced
them as "bourgeois corruptions of the militant proletariat." Necessity and responsibility soon
forced the adoption of a new attitude toward them. The Bolshevik government had to accept the
despised co-operatives, and even compromise Bolshevist principles as the price of securing
their services:

    A Socialist state can come into existence only as a net of
    production and consumption communes, which keep conscientious
    accounts of their production and consumption, economize labor,
    steadily increasing its productivity and thus making it possible
    to lower the workday to seven, six, or even less hours. Anything
    less than rigorous, universal, thorough accounting and control of
    grain and of the production of grain, and later also of all other
    necessary products, will not do. We have inherited from capitalism
    mass organizations which can facilitate the transition to mass
    accounting and control of distribution--the consumers'
    co-operatives. They are developed in Russia less than in the more
    advanced countries, but they comprise more than 10,000,000
    members. The decree on consumers' associations which was recently
    issued is extremely significant, showing clearly the peculiarity
    of the position and of the problem of the Socialist Soviet
    Republic at the present time.

    The decree is an agreement with the bourgeois co-operatives and
    with the workmen's co-operatives adhering to the bourgeois
    standpoint. The agreement or compromise consists, firstly, in the
    fact that the representatives of these institutions not only
    participated in the deliberations on this decree, but had
    practically received a determining voice, for parts of the decree
    which met determined opposition from these institutions were
    rejected. Secondly and essentially, the compromise consists in the
    rejection by the Soviet authority of the principle of free
    admission to the co-operatives (the only consistent principle from
    the proletarian standpoint), and that the whole population of a
    given locality should be united in a single co-operative. The
    defection from this, the only Socialist principle, which is in
    accord with the problem of doing away with classes, allows the
    existence of working-class co-operatives (which in this case call
    themselves working-class co-operatives only because they submit to
    the class interests of the bourgeoisie). Lastly, the proposition
    of the Soviet government completely to exclude the bourgeoisie
    from the administration of the co-operatives was also considerably
    weakened, and only owners of capitalistic commercial and
    industrial enterprises are excluded from the administration.

       *       *       *       *       *

    If the proletariat, acting through the Soviets, should
    successfully establish accounting and control on a national scale,
    there would be no need for such compromise. Through the Food
    Departments of the Soviets, through their organs of supply, we
    would unite the population in one co-operative directed by the
    proletariat, without the assistance from bourgeois co-operatives,
    without concessions to the purely bourgeois principle which
    compels the labor co-operatives to remain side by side with the
    bourgeois co-operatives instead of wholly subjecting these
    bourgeois co-operatives, fusing both?[69]

V

It is no mood of captious, unfriendly criticism that attention is specially directed to these
compromises. Only political charlatans, ineffective quacks, and irresponsible soap-box orators
see crime against the revolutionary program of the masses in a wise and honest opportunism.
History will not condemn the Bolsheviki for the give-and-take, compromise-where-necessary policy
outlined in the foregoing paragraphs. Its condemnation will be directed rather against their
failure to act in that spirit from the moment the first Provisional Government arose. Had they
joined with the other Socialists and established a strong Coalition Government, predominantly
Socialist, but including representatives of the most liberal and democratic elements of the
bourgeoisie, it would have been possible to bring the problems of labor organization and labor
discipline under democratic direction. It would not have been possible to establish complete
industrial democracy, fully developed Socialism, nor will it be possible to do this for many
years to come.

But it would have been easy and natural for the state to secure to the workers a degree of
economic assurance and protection not otherwise possible. It would have been possible, too,
for the workers' organizations, recognized by and co-operating with the state, to have undertaken,
in a large degree, the control of the conditions of their own employment which labor organizations
everywhere are demanding and gradually gaining. The best features of "Guild Socialism" could
nowhere have been so easily adopted.[70] But instead of effort in these directions, we find
the Bolsheviki resorting to the Taylor System of Scientific Management enforced by an individual
dictator whose word is final and absolute, to disobey whom is treason! There is not a nation
in the world with a working-class movement of any strength where it would be possible to introduce
the industrial servitude here described:

    The most conscious vanguard of the Russian proletariat has already
    turned to the problem of increasing labor discipline. For
    instance, the central committee of the Metallurgical Union and the
    Central Council of the Trades Unions have begun work on respective
    measures and drafts of decrees. This work should be supported and
    advanced by all means. We should immediately introduce piece work
    and try it out in practice. We should try out every scientific and
    progressive suggestion of the Taylor System; we should compare
    the earnings with the general total of production, or the
    exploitation results of railroad and water transportation, and so
    on.

    The Russian is a poor worker in comparison with the workers of the
    advanced nations, and this could not be otherwise under the régime
    of the Czar and other remnants of feudalism. The last word of
    capitalism in this respect, the Taylor System--as well as all
    progressive measures of capitalism--combine the refined cruelty of
    bourgeois exploitation and a number of most valuable scientific
    attainments in the analysis of mechanical motions during work, in
    dismissing superfluous and useless motions, in determining the
    most correct methods of the work, the best systems of accounting
    and control, etc. The Soviet Republic must adopt valuable and
    scientific and technical advance in this field. The possibility
    of Socialism will be determined by our success in combining the
    Soviet rule and the Soviet organization of management with the
    latest progressive measures of capitalism. We must introduce in
    Russia the study and the teaching of the Taylor System and its
    systematic trial and adaptation. While working to increase the
    productivity of labor, we must at the same time take into account
    the peculiarities of the transition period from capitalism to
    Socialism, which require, on one hand, that we lay the foundation
    for the Socialist organization of emulation, and, on the other
    hand, require the use of compulsion so that the slogan of the
    dictatorship of the proletariat should not be weakened by the
    practice of a too mild proletarian government.

    The resolution of the last (Moscow) Congress of the Soviets
    advocates, as the most important problem at present, the creation
    of "efficient organization" and higher discipline. Such
    resolutions are now readily supported by everybody. But that their
    realization requires compulsion, and compulsion in the form of a
    dictatorship, is ordinarily not comprehended. And yet, it would
    be the greatest stupidity and the most absurd opportunism to
    suppose that the transition from capitalism to Socialism is
    possible without compulsion and dictatorship. The Marxian theory
    has long ago criticized beyond misunderstanding this petty
    bourgeois-democratic and anarchistic nonsense. And Russia of
    1917-18 confirms in this respect the Marxian theory so clearly,
    palpably, and convincingly that only those who are hopelessly
    stupid or who have firmly determined to ignore the truth can still
    err in this respect. Either a Kornilov dictatorship (if Kornilov
    be taken as Russian type of a bourgeois Cavaignac) or a
    dictatorship of the proletariat--no other alternative is possible
    for a country which is passing through an unusually swift
    development with unusually difficult transitions and which suffers
    from desperate disorganization created by the most horrible
    war.[71]

This dictatorship is to be no light affair, no purely nominal force, but a relentless iron-hand
rule. Lenine is afraid that the proletariat is too soft-hearted and lenient. He says:

    But "dictatorship" is a great word. And great words must not be
    used in vain. A dictatorship is an iron rule, with revolutionary
    daring and swift and merciless in the suppression of the
    exploiters as well as of the thugs (hooligans). And our rule is
    too mild, quite frequently resembling jam rather than iron.[72]

And so the dictatorship of the proletariat becomes the dictatorship of a single person, a super-boss
and industrial autocrat: We must learn to combine the stormy, energetic breaking of all restraint
on the part of the toiling masses with iron discipline during work, with absolute submission
to the will of one person, the Soviet director, during work.[73]

As I copy these words from Lenine's book my memory recalls the days, more than twenty years
ago, when as a workman in England and as shop steward of my union I joined with my comrades
in breaking down the very things Lenine here proposes to set up in the name of Socialism. "Absolute
submission to the will of one person" is not a state toward which free men will strive. Not
willingly will men who enjoy the degree of personal freedom existing in democratic nations
turn to this:

    With respect to ... the significance of individual dictatorial
    power from the standpoint of the specific problems of the present
    period, we must say that every large machine industry--which is
    the material productive source and basis of Socialism--requires an
    absolute and strict unity of the will which directs the joint work
    of hundreds, thousands, and tens of thousands of people. This
    necessity is obvious from the technical, economical, and
    historical standpoint, and has always been recognized by all those
    who had given any thought to Socialism, as its prerequisite. But
    how can we secure a strict unity of will? By subjecting the will
    of thousands to the will of one.

    This subjection, if the participants in the common work are
    ideally conscious and disciplined, may resemble the mild leading
    of an orchestra conductor; but may take the acute form of a
    dictatorship--if there is no ideal discipline and consciousness.
    But at any rate, complete submission to a single will is
    absolutely necessary for the success of the processes of work
    which is organized on the type of large machine industry. This is
    doubly true of the railways. And just this transition from one
    political problem to another, which in appearance has no
    resemblance to the first, constitutes the peculiarity of the
    present period. The Revolution has just broken the oldest, the
    strongest, and the heaviest chains to which the masses were
    compelled to submit. So it was yesterday. And to-day, the same
    Revolution (and indeed in the interest of Socialism) demands the
    absolute submission of the masses to the single will of those
    who direct the labor process. It is self-evident that it can be
    realized only after great upheavals, crises, returns to the old;
    only through the greatest strain of the energy of the proletarian
    vanguard which is leading the people to the new order....

    To the extent to which the principal problem of the Soviet rule
    changes from military suppression to administration, suppression
    and compulsion will, as a rule, be manifested in trials, and not
    in shooting on the spot. And in this respect the revolutionary
    masses have taken, after November 7, 1918, the right road and have
    proved the vitality of the Revolution, when they started to
    organize their own workmen's and peasants' tribunals, before any
    decrees were issued dismissing the bourgeois-democratic judicial
    apparatus. But our revolutionary and popular tribunals are
    excessively and incredibly weak. It is apparent that the popular
    view of the courts--which was inherited from the régime of the
    landowners and the bourgeoisie--as not their own, has not yet been
    completely destroyed. It is not sufficiently appreciated that the
    courts serve to attract all the poor to administration (for
    judicial activity is one of the functions of state
    administration); that the court is an organ of the rule of the
    proletariat and of the poorest peasantry; that the court is a
    means of training in discipline. There is a lack of appreciation
    of the simple and obvious fact that, if the chief misfortunes of
    Russia are famine and unemployment, these misfortunes cannot be
    overcome by any outbursts of enthusiasm, but only by thorough and
    universal organization and discipline, in order to increase the
    production of bread for men and fuel for industry, to transport it
    in time, and to distribute it in the right way. That therefore
    responsibility for the pangs of famine and unemployment falls on
    every one who violates the labor discipline in any enterprise and
    in any business. That those who are responsible should be
    discovered, tried, and punished without mercy. The petty
    bourgeois environment, which we will have to combat persistently
    now, shows particularly in the lack of comprehension of the
    economic and political connection between famine and unemployment
    and the prevailing dissoluteness in organization and
    discipline--in the firm hold of the view of the small proprietor
    that "nothing matters, if only I gain as much as possible."

    A characteristic struggle occurred on this basis in connection
    with the last decree on railway management, the decree which
    granted dictatorial (or "unlimited") power to individual
    directors. The conscious (and mostly, probably, unconscious)
    representatives of petty bourgeois dissoluteness contended that
    the granting of "unlimited" (i.e., dictatorial) power to
    individuals was a defection from the principle of board
    administration, from the democratic and other principles of the
    Soviet rule. Some of the Socialist-Revolutionists of the left wing
    carried on a plainly demagogic agitation against the decree on
    dictatorship, appealing to the evil instincts and to the petty
    bourgeois desire for personal gain. The question thus presented is
    of really great significance; firstly, the question of principle
    is, in general, the appointment of individuals endowed with
    unlimited power, the appointment of dictators, in accord with the
    fundamental principles of the Soviet rule; secondly, in what
    relation is this case--this precedent, if you wish--to the special
    problems of the Soviet rule during the present concrete period?
    Both questions deserve serious consideration.[74]

With characteristic ingenuity Lenine attempts to provide this dictatorship with a theoretical
basis which will pass muster as Marxian Socialism. He uses the term "Soviet democracy" as a
synonym for democratic Socialism and says there is "absolutely no contradiction in principle"
between it and "the use of dictatorial power of individuals." By what violence to reason and
to language is the word democracy applied to the system described by Lenine? To use words with
such scant respect to their meanings, established by etymology, history, and universal agreement
in usage, is to invite and indeed compel the contempt of minds disciplined by reason's practices.
As for the claim that there is no contradiction in principle between democratic Socialism and
the exercise of dictatorial power by individuals, before it can be accepted every Socialist
teacher and leader of any standing anywhere, the programs of all the Socialist parties, and
their practice, must be denied and set aside. Whether democratic Socialism be wise or unwise,
a practical possibility or an unrealizable idea, at least it has nothing in common with such
reactionary views as are expressed in the following:

    That the dictatorship of individuals has very frequently in the
    history of revolutionary movements served as an expression and
    means of realization of the dictatorship of the revolutionary
    classes is confirmed by the undisputed experience of history. With
    bourgeois democratic principles, the dictatorship of individuals
    has undoubtedly been compatible. But this point is always treated
    adroitly by the bourgeois critics of the Soviet rule and by their
    petty bourgeois aides. On one hand, they declared the Soviet rule
    simply something absurd and anarchically wild, carefully avoiding
    all our historical comparisons and theoretical proofs that the
    Soviets are a higher form of democracy; nay, more, the beginning
    of a Socialist form of democracy. On the other hand, they demand
    of us a higher democracy than the bourgeois and argue: with your
    Bolshevist (i.e., Socialist, not bourgeois) democratic
    principles, with the Soviet democratic principles, individual
    dictatorship is absolutely incompatible.

    Extremely poor arguments, these. If we are not Anarchists, we must
    admit the necessity of a state--that is, of compulsion, for the
    transition from capitalism to Socialism. The form of compulsion is
    determined by the degree of development of the particular
    revolutionary class, then by such special circumstances as, for
    instance, the heritage of a long and reactionary war, and then by
    the forms of resistance of the bourgeoisie and the petty
    bourgeoisie. There is therefore absolutely no contradiction in
    principle between the Soviet (Socialist) democracy and the use of
    dictatorial power of individuals. The distinction between a
    proletarian and a bourgeois dictatorship consists in this: that
    the first directs its attacks against the exploiting minority in
    the interests of the exploited majority; and, further, in this,
    that the first is accomplished (also through individuals) not only
    by the masses of the exploited toilers, but also by the
    organizations which are so constructed that they arouse these
    masses to historical creative work (the Soviets belong to this
    kind of organization).[75]

This, then, is Bolshevism, not as it is seen and described by unfriendly "bourgeois" writers,
but as it is seen and described by the acknowledged intellectual and political leader of the
Bolsheviki, Nikolai Lenine. I have not taken any non-Bolshevist authority; I have not even
restated his views in a summary of my own, lest into the summary might be injected some reflexes
of my own critical thought. Bolshevism is revealed in all its reactionary repulsiveness as
something between which and absolute, individual dictatorial power there is "absolutely no
contradiction in principle." It will not avail for our American followers and admirers of the
Bolsheviki to plead that these things are temporary, compromises with the ideal due to the
extraordinary circumstances prevailing in Russia, and to beg a mitigation of the severity of
our judgment on that account.

The answer to the plea is twofold: in the first place, they who offer it must, if they are
sincere, abandon the savagely critical attitude they have seen fit to adopt toward our own
government and nation because with "extraordinary conditions prevailing" we have had introduced
conscription, unusual restrictions of movement and of utterance, and so forth. How else, indeed,
can their sincerity be demonstrated? If the fact that extraordinary conditions justified Lenine
and his associates in instituting a régime so tyrannical, what rule of reason or of morals
must be invoked to refuse to count the extraordinary conditions produced in our own nation
by the war as justification for the special measures of military service and discipline here
introduced?

But there is a second answer to the claim which is more direct and conclusive. It is not open
to argument at all. It is found in the words of Lenine himself, in his claim that there is
absolutely no contradiction between the principle of individual dictatorship, ruling with iron
hand, and the principle upon which Soviet government rests. There has been no compromise here,
for if there is no contradiction in principle no compromise could have been required. Lenine
is not afraid to make or to admit making compromises; he admits that compromises have been
made. It was a compromise to employ highly salaried specialists from the bourgeoisie, "a defection
from the principles of the Paris Commune and of any proletarian rule," as he says. It was a
compromise, another "defection from the only Socialist principle," to admit the right of the
co-operatives to determine their own conditions of membership. Having made these declarations
quite candidly, he takes pains to assure us that there was no such defection from principle
in establishing the absolute rule of an individual dictator, that there was absolutely no contradiction
in principle in this.[76]

Moreover, there is no reason for regarding this dictatorship as a temporary thing, if Lenine
himself is to be accepted as an authoritative spokesman. Obviously, if there is nothing in
the principle of an absolute individual dictatorship which is in contradiction to the Bolshevik
ideal, there can be no Bolshevik principle which necessarily requires for its realization the
ending of such dictatorship. Why, therefore, may it not be continued indefinitely? Certainly,
if the dictatorship is abolished it will not be--if Lenine is to be seriously considered--on
account of its incompatibility with Bolshevik principles.

VI

The Bolshevik government of Russia is credited by many of its admirers in this country with
having solved the great land problem and with having satisfied the land-hunger of the peasants.
It is charged, moreover, that the bitter opposition to the Bolsheviki is mainly due to agitation
by the bourgeoisie, led by the expropriated landowners, who want to defeat the Revolution and
to have their former titles to the land restored. Of course, it is true that, so far as they
dare to do so, the former landowners actively oppose the Bolsheviki. No expropriated class
ever acted otherwise, and it would be foolish to expect anything else. But any person who believes
that the opposition of the great peasant Socialist organizations, and especially of the Socialist-Revolutionists,
is due to the confiscation of the land, either consciously or unconsciously, is capable of
believing anything and quite immune from rationality.

The facts in the case are, briefly, as follows: First, as Professor Ross has pointed out,[77]
the land policy of the Bolshevik government was a compromise of the principles long advocated
by its leaders, a compromise made for political reasons only. Second, as Marie Spiridonova
abundantly demonstrated at an All-Russian Soviet Conference in July, 1918, the Bolshevik government
did not honorably live up to its agreement with the Socialist-Revolutionists of the Left. Third,
so far as the land problem was concerned there was not the slightest need or justification
for the Bolshevik coup d'état, for the reason that the problem had already been solved on the
precise lines afterward followed in the Soviet decree and the leaders of the peasants were
satisfied. We have the authority of no less competent a witness than Litvinov, Bolshevist Minister
to England, that "the land measure had been 'lifted' bodily from the program of the Socialist-Revolutionists."[78]
Each of these statements is amply sustained by evidence which cannot be disputed or overcome.

That the "land decree" which the Bolshevik government promulgated was a compromise with their
long-cherished principles admits of no doubt whatever. Every one who has kept informed concerning
Russian revolutionary movements during the past twenty or twenty-five years knows that during
all that time one of the principal subjects of controversy among Socialists was the land question
and the proper method of solving it. The "Narodniki," or peasant Socialists, later organized
into the Socialist-Revolutionary party, wanted distribution of the land belonging to the big
estates among the peasant communes, to be co-operatively owned and managed. They did not want
land nationalization, which was the program of the Marxists--the Social Democrats. This latter
program meant that, instead of the land being divided among the peasants' communal organizations,
it should be owned, used, and managed by the state, the principles of large-scale production
and wage labor being applied to agriculture in the same manner as to industry.

The attitude of the Social Democratic party toward the peasant Socialists and their program
was characterized by that same certainty that small agricultural holdings were to pass away,
and by the same contemptuous attitude toward the peasant life and peasant aspirations that
we find in the writings of Marx, Engels, Liebknecht, and many other Marxists.[79] Lenine himself
had always adopted this attitude. He never trusted the peasants and was opposed to any program
which would give the land to them as they desired. Mr. Walling, who spent nearly three years
in Russia, including the whole period of the Revolution of 1905-06, writes of Lenine's position
at that time:

    Like Alexinsky, Lenine awaits the agrarian movement ... and hopes
    that a railway strike with the destruction of the lines of
    communication and the support of the peasantry may some day put
    the government of Russia into the people's hands. However, I was
    shocked to find that this important leader also, though he expects
    a full co-operation with the peasants on equal terms, during the
    Revolution, feels toward them a very deep distrust, thinking
    them to a large extent bigoted and blindly patriotic, and fearing
    that they may some day shoot down the working-men as the French
    peasants did during the Paris Commune.

    The chief basis for this distrust is, of course, the prejudiced
    feeling that the peasants are not likely to become good
    Socialists. It is on this account that Lenine and all the Social
    Democratic leaders place their hopes on a future development of
    large agricultural estates in Russia and the increase of the
    landless agricultural working class, which alone they believe
    would prove truly Socialist.[80]

The Russian Social Democratic Labor party, to which Lenine belonged, and of which he was an
influential leader, adopted in 1906 the following program with regard to land ownership:

    1. Confiscation of Church, Monastery, Appanage, Cabinet,[81] and
    private estate lands, except small holdings, and turning them
    over, together with the state lands, to the great organs of local
    administration, which have been democratically elected. Land,
    however, which is necessary as a basis for future colonization,
    together with the forests and bodies of water, which are of
    national importance, are to pass into the control of the
    democratic state.

    2. Wherever conditions are unfavorable for this transformation,
    the party declares itself in favor of a division among the
    peasants of such of the private estates as already have the petty
    farming conditions, or which may be necessary to round out a
    reasonable holding.

This program was at the time regarded as a compromise. It did not wholly suit anybody. The
peasant leaders feared the amount of state ownership and management involved. On the other
hand, the extreme left wing of the Social Democrats--Lenine and his friends--wanted the party
to proclaim itself in favor of the complete nationalization of all privately owned land, even
that of the small peasant owners, but were willing, provided the principle were this stated,
to accept, as a temporary expedient, division of the land in certain exceptional instances.
On the other hand, the Socialist-Revolutionists wanted, not the distribution of lands among
a multitude of private owners, as is very generally supposed, but its socialization. Their
program provided for "the socialization of all privately owned lands--that is, the taking of
them out of the private ownership of persons into the public ownership and their management
by democratically organized leagues of communities with the purpose of an equitable utilization."
They wanted to avoid the creation of a great army of what they described as "wage-slaves of
the state" and, on the other hand, they wanted to build upon the basis of Russian communism
and, as far as possible, prevent the extension of capitalist methods--and therefore of the
class struggle--into the agrarian life of Russia.

When the Bolsheviki came into power they sought first of all to split the peasant Socialist
movement and gain the support of its extreme left wing. For this reason they agreed to adopt
the program of the Revolutionary Socialist party. It was Marie Spiridonova who made that arrangement
possible. It was, in fact, a political deal. Lenine and Trotzky, on behalf of the Bolshevik
government, agreed to accept the land policy of the Socialist-Revolutionists, and in return
Spiridonova and her friends agreed to support the Bolsheviki. There is abundant evidence of
the truth of the following account of Professor Ross:

    Among the first acts of the Bolsheviki in power was to square
    their debt to the left wing of the Social Revolutionists, their
    ally in the coup d'état. The latter would accept only one kind
    of currency--the expropriation of the private landowners without
    compensation and the transfer of all land into the hands of the
    peasant communes. The Bolsheviki themselves, as good Marxists,
    took no stock in the peasants' commune. As such, pending the
    introduction of Socialism, they should, perhaps, have nationalized
    the land and rented it to the highest bidder, regardless of
    whether it was to be tilled in small parcels without hired labor
    or in large blocks on the capitalistic plan. The land edict of
    November does, indeed, decree land nationalism; however, the vital
    proviso is added that "the use of the land must be equalized--that
    is, according to local conditions and according to the ability to
    work and the needs of each individual," and further that "the
    hiring of labor is not permitted." The administrative machinery is
    thus described: "All the confiscated land becomes the land capital
    of the nation. Its distribution among the working-people is to be
    in charge of the local and central authorities, beginning with the
    organized rural and urban communities and ending with the
    provincial central organs." Such is the irony of fate. Those who
    had charged the rural land commune with being the most serious
    brake upon Russia's progress, and who had stigmatized the
    People-ists as reactionaries and Utopians, now came to enact into
    law most of their tenets--the equalization of the use of land, the
    prohibition of the hiring of labor, and everything else![82]

The much-praised land policy of the Bolsheviki is, in fact, not a Bolshevik policy at all,
but one which they have accepted as a compromise for temporary political advantage. "Claim
everything in sight," said a noted American politician on one occasion to his followers. Our
followers of the Bolsheviki, taught by a very clever propaganda, seem to be acting upon that
maxim. They claim for the Bolsheviki everything which can in the slightest manner win favor
with the American public, notwithstanding that it involves claiming for the Bolsheviki credit
to which they are not entitled. As early as May 18, 1917, it was announced by the Provisional
Government that the "question of the transfer of the land to the toilers" was to be left to
the Constituent Assembly, and there was never a doubt in the mind of any Russian Socialist
how that body would settle it; never a moment when it was doubted that the Constituent Assembly
would be controlled by the Socialist-Revolutionary party. When Kerensky became Prime Minister
one of the first acts of his Cabinet was to create a special committee for the purpose of preparing
the law for the socialization of the land and the necessary machinery for carrying the law
into effect. The All-Russian Peasants' Congress had, as early as May, five months before the
Bolshevik counter-revolution, adopted the land policy for which the Bolsheviki now are being
praised by their admirers in this country. That policy had been crystallized into a carefully
prepared law which had been approved by the Council of Ministers. The Bolsheviki did no more
than to issue a crudely conceived "decree" which they have never at any time had the power
to enforce in more than about a fourth of Russia--in place of a law which would have embraced
all Russia and have been secure and permanent.

On July 16, 1918, Marie Spiridonova, in an address delivered in Petrograd, protested vehemently
against the manner in which the Bolshevik government was departing from the policy it had agreed
to maintain with regard to the land, and going back to the old Social Democratic ideas. She
declared that she had been responsible for the decree of February, which provided for the socialization
of the land. That measure provided for the abolition of private property in land, and placed
all land in the hands of and under the direction of the peasant communes. It was the old Socialist-Revolutionist
program. But the Bolshevik government had not carried out the law of February. Instead, it
had resorted to the Social Democratic method of nationalization. In the western governments,
she said, "great estates were being taken over by government departments and were being managed
by officials, on the ground that state control would yield better results than communal ownership.
Under this system the peasants were being reduced to the state of slaves paid wages by the
state. Yet the law provided that these estates should be divided among the peasant communes
to be tilled by the peasants on a co-operative system."[83] Spiridonova protested against the
attitude of the Bolsheviki toward the peasants, against dividing them into classes and placing
the greater part of them with the bourgeoisie. She insisted that the peasants be regarded as
a single class, co-operating with the industrial proletariat, yet distinct from it and from
the bourgeoisie. For our present purpose, it does not matter whether the leaders of the Bolsheviki
were right or wrong in their decision that state operation was better than operation by village
co-operatives. Our sole concern here and now is the fact that they did not keep faith with
the section of the peasants they had won over to their side, and the fact that, as this incident
shows, we cannot regard the formal decrees of the Soviet Republic as descriptions of realities.

The Bolsheviki remain to-day, as at the beginning, a counter-revolutionary power imposing its
rule upon the great mass of the Russian people by armed force. There can be little doubt that
if a free election could be had immediately upon the same basis as that on which the Constituent
Assembly was elected--namely, universal, secret, equal, direct suffrage, the Bolsheviki would
be overwhelmingly beaten. There can be little doubt that the great mass of the peasantry would
support, as before, the candidates of the Socialist-Revolutionary party. It is quite true that
some of the leaders of that party have consented to work with the Bolshevik government. Compromises
have been effected; the Bolsheviki have conciliated the peasants somewhat, and the latter have,
in many cases, sought to make the best of a bad situation. Many have adopted a passive attitude.
But there can be no greater mistake than to believe that the Bolsheviki have solved the land
question to the satisfaction of the peasants and so won their allegiance.

VII

This survey of the theories and practices of the Bolsheviki would invite criticism and distrust
if the peace program which culminated in the shameful surrender to Germany, the "indecent peace"
as the Russians call it, were passed over without mention. And yet there is no need to tell
here a story with which every one is familiar. By that humiliating peace Russia lost 780,000
square kilometers of territory, occupied by 56,000,000 inhabitants. She lost one-third of her
total mileage of railways, amounting to more than 13,000 miles. She lost, also, 73 per cent.
of her iron production; 89 per cent. of her coal production, and many thousands of factories
of various kinds. These latter included 268 sugar-refineries, 918 textile-factories, 574 breweries,
133 tobacco-factories, 1,685 distilleries, 244 chemical-factories, 615 paper-mills, and 1,073
machine-factories.[84] Moreover, it was not an enduring peace and war against Germany had to
be resumed.

In judging the manner in which the Bolsheviki concluded peace with Germany, it is necessary
to be on guard against prejudice engendered by the war and its passions. The tragi-comedy of
Brest-Litovsk, and the pitiable rôle of Trotzky, have naturally been linked together with the
manner in which Lenine and his companions reached Russia with the aid of the German Government,
the way in which all the well-known leaders of the Bolsheviki had deliberately weakened the
morale of the troops at the front, and their persistent opposition to all the efforts of Kerensky
to restore the fighting spirit of the army--all these things combined have convinced many thoughtful
and close observers that the Bolsheviki were in league with the Germans against the Allies.
Perhaps the time is not yet ripe for passing final judgment upon this matter. Certainly there
were ugly-looking incidents which appeared to indicate a close co-operation with the Germans.

There was, for example, the acknowledged fact that the Bolsheviki on seizing the power of government
immediately entered into negotiations with the notorious "Parvus," whose rôle as an agent of
the German Government is now thoroughly established. "Parvus" is the pseudonym of one of the
most sinister figures in the history of the Socialist movement, Dr. Alexander Helfandt. Born
at Odessa, of German-Jewish descent, he studied in Germany and in the early eighteen-nineties
attained prominence as a prolific and brilliant contributor to the German Socialist review,
Die Neue Zeit. He was early "exiled" from Russia, but it was suspected by a great many Socialists
that in reality his "exile" was simply a device to cover employment in the Russian Secret Service
as a spy and informer, for which the prestige he had gained in Socialist circles was a valuable
aid. When the Revolution of 1905 broke out Helfandt returned to Russia under the terms of the
amnesty declared at that time. He at once joined the Leninist section of the Social Democratic
party, the Bolsheviki. A scandal occurred some time later, when the connection of "Parvus"
with the Russian Government was freely charged against him. Among those who attacked him and
accused him of being an agent-provocateur were Tseretelli, the Socialist-Revolutionist, and
Miliukov, the leader of the Cadets.

Some years later, at the time of the uprisings in connection with the Young Turk movement,
"Parvus" turned up in Constantinople, where he was presumably engaged in work for the German
Government. This was commonly believed in European political circles, though denied at the
time by "Parvus" himself. One thing is certain, namely, that although he was notoriously poor
when he went there--his financial condition was well known to his Socialist associates--he
returned at the beginning of 1915 a very rich man. He explained his riches by saying that he
had, while at Constantinople, Bucharest, and Sofia, successfully speculated in war wheat. He
wrote this explanation in the German Socialist paper, Die Glocke, and drew from Hugo Hasse
the following observation: "I blame nobody for being wealthy; I only ask if it is the rôle
of a Social Democrat to become a profiteer of the war."[85] Very soon we find this precious
gentleman settled in Copenhagen, where he established a "Society for Studying the Social Consequences
of the War," which was, of course, entirely pro-German. This society is said to have exercised
considerable influence among the Russians in Copenhagen and to have greatly influenced many
Danish Socialists to take Germany's side. According to Pravda, the Bolshevik organ, the German
Government, through the intermediary of German Social Democrats, established a working relation
with Danish trade-unions and the Danish Social Democratic party, whereby the Danish unions
got the coal needed in Copenhagen at a figure below the market price. Then the Danish party
sent its leader, Borgdjerg, to Petrograd as an emissary to place before the Petrograd Soviet
the terms of peace of the German Majority Socialists, which were, of course, the terms of the
German Government. We find "Parvus" at the same time, as he is engaged in this sort of intrigue,
associated with one Furstenberg in shipping drugs into Russia and food from Russia into Germany.[86]
According to Grumbach,[87] he sought to induce prominent Norwegian Socialists to act as intermediaries
to inform certain Norwegian syndicates that Germany would grant them a monopoly of coal consignments
if the Norwegian Social Democratic press would adopt a more friendly attitude toward Germany
and the Social Democratic members in the Norwegian parliament would urge the stoppage or the
limitation of fish exports to England.

During this period "Parvus" was bitterly denounced by Plechanov, by Alexinsky and other Russian
Socialists as an agent of the Central Powers. He was denounced also by Lenine and Trotzky and
by Pravda. Lenine described him as "the vilest of bandits and betrayers." It was therefore
somewhat astonishing for those familiar with these facts to read the following communication,
which appeared in the German Socialist press on November 30, 1917, and, later, in the British
Socialist organ, Justice:

    STOCKHOLM, November 20.--The Foreign Relations Committee
    of the Bolsheviki makes the following communication: "The German
    comrade, 'Parvus,' has brought to the Bolshevik Committee at
    Stockholm the congratulations of the Parteivorstand of the
    Majority Social Democrats, who declare their solidarity with the
    struggles of the Russian proletariat and with its request to begin
    pourparlers immediately on the basis of a democratic peace without
    annexations and indemnities. The Foreign Relations Committee of
    the Bolsheviki has transmitted these declarations to the Central
    Committee at Petrograd, as well as to the Soviets."

When Hugo Hasse questioned Philipp Scheidemann about the negotiations which were going on through
"Parvus," Scheidemann replied that it was the Bolsheviki themselves who had invited "Parvus"
to come to Stockholm for the purpose of opening up negotiations. This statement was denounced
as a lie by Karl Radek in Pravda. Some day, doubtless, the truth will be known; for the present
it is enough to note the fact that as early as November the Bolsheviki were negotiating through
such a discredited agent of the Central Powers as Dr. Alexander Helfandt, otherwise "Parvus,"
the well-known Marxist! Such facts as this, added to those previously noticed, tended inevitably
to strengthen the conviction that Lenine and Trotsky were the pliant and conscious tools of
Germany all the time, and that the protests of Trotzky at Brest-Litovsk were simply stage-play.

But for all that, unless and until official, documentary evidence is forthcoming which proves
them to have been in such relations with the German Government and military authorities, they
ought not to be condemned upon the chain of suspicious circumstances, strong as that chain
apparently is. The fact is that they had to make peace, and make it quickly. Kerensky, had
he been permitted to hold on, would equally have had to make a separate peace, and make it
quickly. Only one thing could have delayed that for long--namely, the arrival of an adequate
force of Allied troops on the Russian front to stiffen the morale and to take the burden of
fighting off from the Russians. Of that there was no sign and no promise or likelihood. Kerensky
knew that he would have had to make peace, at almost any cost and on almost any terms, if he
remained in power. If the Bolsheviki appear in the light of traitors to the Allies, it should
be remembered that pressure of circumstances would have forced even such a loyal friend of
the Allies as Kerensky certainly proved himself to be to make a separate peace, practically
on Germany's terms, in a very little while. It was not a matter of months, but of weeks at
most, probably of days.

Russia had to have peace. The nation was war-weary and exhausted. The Allies had not understood
the situation--indeed, they never have understood Russia, even to this day--and had bungled
right along. What made it possible for the Bolsheviki to assert their rule so easily was the
fact that they promised immediate peace, and the great mass of the Russian workers wanted immediate
peace above everything else. They were so eager for peace that so long as they could get it
they cared at the time for nothing. Literally nothing else mattered. As we have seen, the Bolshevik
leaders had strenuously denied wanting to make a "separate peace." There is little reason for
doubting that they were sincere in this in the sense that what they wanted was a general peace,
if that could be possibly obtained. Peace they had to have, as quickly as possible. If they
could not persuade their Allies to join with them in making such a general peace, they were
willing to make a separate peace. That is quite different from wanting a separate peace from
the first. There was, indeed, in the demand made at the beginning of December upon the Allies
to restate their war aims within a period of seven days an arrogant and provocative tone which
invited the suspicion that the ultimatum--for such it was--had not been conceived in good faith;
that it was deliberately framed in such a manner as to prevent compliance by the Allies. And
it may well be the fact that Lenine and Trotzky counted upon the inevitable refusal to convince
the Russian people, and especially the Russian army, that the Allied nations were fighting
for imperialistic ends, just as the Bolsheviki had always charged. The Machiavellian cunning
of such a policy is entirely characteristic of the conspirator type.

On December 14th the armistice was signed at Brest-Litovsk, to last for a period of twenty-eight
days. On December 5th, the Bolsheviki had published the terms upon which they desired to effect
the armistice. These terms, which the Germans scornfully rejected, provided that the German
forces which had been occupied on the Russian front should not be sent to other fronts to fight
against the Allies, and that the German troops should retire from the Russian islands held
by them. In the armistice as it was finally signed at Brest-Litovsk there was a clause which,
upon its face, seemed to prove that Trotzky had kept faith with the Allies. The clause provided
that there should be no transfer of troops by either side, for the purpose of military operations,
during the armistice, from the front between the Baltic and the Black Sea. This, however, was,
from the German point of view, merely a pro forma arrangement, a "scrap of paper." Grumbach
wrote to L'Humanité that on December 20th Berlin was full of German soldiers from the Russian
front en route to the western front. He said that he had excellent authority for saying that
this had been called to the attention of Lenine and Trotzky by the Independent Social Democrats,
but that, "nevertheless, they diplomatically shut their eyes."[88] It is more than probable
that, in the circumstances, neither Lenine nor Trotzky cared much if at all for such a breach
of the terms of the armistice, but, had their attitude been otherwise, what could they have
done? They were as helpless as ever men were in the world, as subsequent events proved.

As one reads the numerous declamatory utterances of Trotzky in those critical days of early
December, 1917, the justice of Lenine's scornful description of his associate as a "man who
blinds himself with revolutionary phrases" becomes manifest. It is easy to understand the strained
relations that existed between the two men. His "neither war nor peace" gesture--it was no
more!--his dramatic refusal to sign the stiffened peace terms, his desire to call all Russia
to arms again to fight the Germans, his determination to create a vast "Red Army" to renew
the war against Germany, and his professed willingness to "accept the services of American
officers in training that army," all indicated a mind given to illusions and stone blind to
realities. Lenine at least knew that the game was up. He knew that the game into which he had
so coolly entered when he left Switzerland, and which he had played with all his skill and
cunning, was at an end and that the Germans had won. The Germans behaved with a perfidy that
is unmatched in modern history, disregarded the armistice they had signed, and savagely hurled
their forces against the defenseless, partially demobilized and trusting Russians. There was
nothing left for the Bolsheviki to do. They had delivered Russia to the Germans. In March the
"indecent peace" was signed, with what result we know. Bolshevism had been the ally of Prussian
militarism. Consciously or unconsciously, willingly or unwillingly, Lenine, Trotzky, and the
other Bolshevik leaders had done all that men could do to make the German military lords masters
of the world. Had there been a similar movement in France, England, the United States, or even
Italy, to-day the Hohenzollerns and Habsburgs would be upon their thrones, realizing the fulfilment
of the Pan-German vision.

VIII

In view of the fact that so many of our American pacifists have glorified the Bolsheviki, it
may be well to remind them, if they have forgotten, or to inform them, if they do not know
it, that their admiration is by no means reciprocated. Both Lenine and Trotzky have spoken
and written in terms of utter disdain of pacifist movements in general and of the pacifists
of England and America in particular. They have insisted that, in present society, disarmament
is really a reactionary proposal. The inclusion in the Constitution, which they have forced
upon Russia by armed might, of permanent universal compulsory military service is not by accident.
They believe that only when all nations have become Socialist nations will it be a proper policy
for Socialists to favor disarmament. It would be interesting to know how our American admirers
and defenders of Bolshevism, who are all anti-conscriptionists and ultra-pacifists, so far
as can be discovered, reconcile their position with that of the Bolsheviki who base their state,
not as a temporary expedient, but as a matter of principle, upon universal, compulsory military
service! What, one wonders, do these American Bolsheviki worshipers think of the teaching of
these paragraphs from an article by Lenine?[89]

    Disarmament is a Socialistic ideal. In Socialist society there
    will be no more wars, which means that disarmament will have been
    realized. But he is not a Socialist who expects the realization of
    Socialism without the social revolution and the dictatorship of
    the proletariat. Dictatorship is a government power, depending
    directly upon force, and, in the twentieth century, force means,
    not fists and clubs, but armies. To insert "disarmament" into our
    program is equivalent to saying, we are opposed to the use of
    arms. But such a statement would contain not a grain of Marxism,
    any more than would the equivalent statement, we are opposed to
    the use of force.

       *       *       *       *       *

    A suppressed class which has no desire to learn the use of arms,
    and to bear arms, deserves nothing else than to be treated as
    slaves. We cannot, unless we wish to transform ourselves into
    mere bourgeois pacifists, forget that we are living in a society
    based on classes, and that there is no escape from such a society,
    except by the class struggle and the overthrow of the power of the
    ruling class.

    In every class society, whether it be based on slavery, serfdom,
    or, as at the present moment, on wage-labor, the class of the
    oppressors is an armed class. Not only the standing army of the
    present day, but also the present-day popular militia--even in the
    most democratic bourgeois republics, as in Switzerland--means an
    armament of the bourgeoisie against the proletariat....

    How can you, in the face of this fact, ask the revolutionary
    Social Democracy to set up the "demand" of "disarmament"? To ask
    this is to renounce completely the standpoint of the class
    struggle, to give up the very thought of revolution. Our
    watchword must be: to arm the proletariat so that it may defeat,
    expropriate, and disarm the bourgeoisie. This is the only possible
    policy of the revolutionary class, a policy arising directly from
    the actual evolution of capitalistic militarism, in fact,
    dictated by the evolution. Only after having disarmed the
    bourgeoisie can the proletariat, without betraying its historic
    mission, cast all weapons to the scrap-heap; and there is no doubt
    that the proletariat will do this, but only then, and not by any
    possibility before then.

How is it possible for our extreme pacifists, with their relentless opposition to military
force in all its forms to conscription, to universal military service, to armaments of all
kinds, even for defensive purposes, and to voluntarily enlisted armies even, to embrace Bolshevism
with enthusiasm, resting as it does upon the basis of the philosophy so frankly stated by Lenine,
is a question for which no answer seems wholly adequate. Of course, what Lenine advocates is
class armament within the nation, for civil war--the war of the classes. But he is not opposed
to national armaments, as such, nor willing to support disarmament as a national policy until
the time comes when an entirely socialized humanity finds itself freed from the necessity of
arming against anybody. There is probably not a militarist in America to-day who, however bitterly
opposed to disarmament as a present policy, would not agree that if, in some future time, mankind
reaches the happy condition of universal Socialism, disarmament will then become practicable
and logical. It would not be difficult for General Wood to subscribe to that doctrine, I think.
It would not have been difficult for Mr. Roosevelt to subscribe to it.

Not only is Lenine willing to support national armaments, and even to fight
for the defense of national rights, whenever an attack on these is also an
attack on proletarian rights--which he believes to be the case in the
continued war against Germany, he goes much farther than this and provides
a theoretical justification for a Socialist policy of passive acceptance of
ever-increasing militarism. He draws a strangely forced parallel between
the Socialist attitude toward the trusts and the attitude which ought to be
taken toward armaments. We know, he argues, that trusts bring great evils.
Against the evils we struggle, but how? Not by trying to do away with the
trusts, for we regard the trusts as steps in progress. We must go onward,
through the trust system to Socialism. In a similar way we should not
deplore "the militarization of the populations." If the bourgeoisie
militarizes all the men, and all the boys, nay, even all the women, why--so
much the better! "Never will the women of an oppressed class that is really
revolutionary be content" to demand disarmament. On the contrary, they will
encourage their sons to bear the arms and "learn well the business of war."
Of course, this knowledge they will use, "not in order that they may shoot
at their brothers, the workers of other countries, as they are doing in the
present war ... but in order that they may struggle against the bourgeoisie
in their own country, in order that they may put an end to exploitation,
poverty, and war, not by the path of good-natured wishes, but by the path
of victory over the bourgeoisie and of disarmament of the bourgeoisie."[90]
 Universally the working class has taken a position the
very opposite of this. Universally we find the organized working class
favoring disarmament, peace agreements, and covenants in general opposing
extensions of what Lenine describes as "the militarization of populations."
For this universality of attitude and action there can only be one adequate
explanation--namely, the instinctive class consciousness of the workers.
But, according to Lenine, this instinctive class consciousness is all
wrong; somehow or other it expresses itself in a "bourgeois" policy. The
workers ought to welcome the efforts of the ruling class to militarize and
train in the arts of war not only the men of the nations, but the boys and
even the women as well. Some day, if this course be followed, there will be
two great armed classes in every nation and between these will occur the
decisive war which shall establish the supremacy of the most numerous and
powerful class. Socialism is thus to be won, not by the conquests of reason
and of conscience, but by brute force.

Obviously, there is no point of sympathy between this brutal and arrogant gospel of force and
the striving of modern democracy for the peaceful organization of the world, for disarmament,
a league of nations, and, in general, the supplanting of force of arms by the force of reason
and morality. There is a Prussian quality in Lenine's philosophy. He is the Treitschke of social
revolt, brutal, relentless, and unscrupulous, glorying in might, which is, for him, the only
right. And that is what characterizes the whole Bolshevik movement: it is the infusion into
the class strife and struggles of the world the same brutality and the same faith that might
is right which made Prussian militarism the menace it was to civilization.

And just as the world of civilized mankind recognized Prussian militarism as its deadly enemy,
to be overcome at all costs, so, too, Bolshevism must be overcome. And that can best be done,
not by attempting to drown it in blood, but by courageously and consistently setting ourselves
to the task of removing the social oppression, the poverty, and the servitude which produce
the desperation of soul that drives men to Bolshevism. The remedy for Bolshevism is a sane
and far-reaching program of constructive social democracy.

POSTSCRIPTUM: A PERSONAL STATEMENT

This book is the fulfilment of a promise to a friend. Soon after my return from Europe, in
November, I spent part of a day in New York discussing Bolshevism with two friends. One of
these is a Russian Socialist, who has lived many years in America, a citizen of the United
States, and a man whose erudition and fidelity to the working-class movement during many years
have long commanded my admiration and reverence. The other friend is a native American, also
a Socialist. A sincere Christian, he has identified his faith in the religion of Jesus and
his faith in democratic Socialism. The two are not conflicting forces, or even separate ones,
but merely different and complementary aspects of the same faith. He is a man who is universally
loved and honored for his nobility of character and his generous idealism. While in Europe
I had spent much time consulting with Russian friends in Paris, Rome, and other cities, and
had collected a considerable amount of authentic material relating to Bolshevism and the Bolsheviki.
I had not the slightest intention of using this material to make a book; in fact, my plans
contemplated a very different employment of my time. But, in the course of the discussion,
my American Socialist friend asked me to "jot down" for him some of the things I had said,
and, especially, to write, in a letter, what I believed to be the psychology of Bolshevism.
This, in an unguarded moment, I undertook to do.

When I set out, a few days later, to redeem my promise, I found that, in order to make things
intelligible, it was absolutely necessary to explain the historical backgrounds of the Russian
revolutionary movement, to describe the point of view of various persons and groups with some
detail, and to quote quite extensively from the documentary material I had gathered. Naturally,
the limits of a letter were quickly outgrown and I found that my response to my friend's innocent
request approached the length of a small volume. Even so, it was quite unsatisfactory. It left
many things unexplained and much of my own thought obscure. I decided then to rewrite the whole
thing and make a book of it, thus making available for what I hope will be a large number of
readers what I had at first intended only for a dear friend.

I am very conscious of the imperfections of the book as it stands. It has been written under
conditions far from favorable, crowded into a very busy life. My keenest critics will, I am
sure, be less conscious of its defects than I am. It is, however, an earnest contribution to
a very important discussion, and, I venture to hope, with all its demerits, a useful one. If
it aids a single person to a clearer comprehension of the inherent wrongfulness of the Bolshevist
philosophy and method, I shall be rewarded.

       *       *       *       *       *

So here, my dear Will, is the fulfilment of my promise. FORMER SOCIALIST PREMIER OF FINLAND
ON BOLSHEVISM

APPENDIX I

AN APPEAL TO THE PROLETARIAT BY THE PETROGRAD WORKMEN'S AND SOLDIERS' COUNCIL

COMRADES:

Proletarians and Working-people of all Countries:

We, Russian workers and soldiers, united in the Petrograd Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegate
Council, send you our warmest greetings and the news of great events. The democracy of Russia
has overthrown the century-old despotism of the Czars and enters your ranks as a rightful member
and as a powerful force in the battle for our common liberation. Our victory is a great victory
for the freedom and democracy of the world. The principal supporter of reaction in the world,
the "gendarme of Europe," no longer exists. May the earth over his grave become a heavy stone!
Long live liberty, long live the international solidarity of the proletariat and its battle
for the final victory!

Our cause is not yet entirely won. Not all the shadows of the old régime have been scattered
and not a few enemies are gathering their forces together against the Russian Revolution. Nevertheless,
our conquests are great. The peoples of Russia will express their will in the Constitutional
convention which is to be called within a short time upon the basis of universal, equal, direct,
and secret suffrage. And now it may already be said with certainty in advance that the democratic
republic will triumph in Russia. The Russian people is in possession of complete political
liberty. Now it can say an authoritative word about the internal self-government of the country
and about its foreign policy. And in addressing ourselves to all the peoples who are being
destroyed and ruined in this terrible war, we declare that the time has come in which the decisive
struggle against the attempts at conquest by the governments of all the nations must be begun.
The time has come in which the peoples must take the matter of deciding the questions of war
and peace into their own hands.

Conscious of its own revolutionary strength, the democracy of Russia declares that it will
fight with all means against the policy of conquest of its ruling classes, and it summons the
peoples of Europe to united, decisive action for peace. We appeal to our brothers, to the German-Austrian
coalition, and above all to the German proletariat. The first day of the war you were made
to believe that in raising your weapons against absolutist Russia you were defending European
civilization against Asiatic despotism. In this many of you found the justification of the
support that was accorded to the war. Now also this justification has vanished. Democratic
Russia cannot menace freedom and civilization.

We shall firmly defend our own liberty against all reactionary threats, whether they come from
without or within. The Russian Revolution will not retreat before the bayonets of conquerors,
and it will not allow itself to be trampled to pieces by outside military force. We call upon
you to throw off the yoke of your absolutist régime, as the Russian people has shaken off the
autocracy of the Czars. Refuse to serve as the tools of conquest and power in the hands of
the kings, Junkers, and bankers, and we shall, with common efforts, put an end to the fearful
butchery that dishonors humanity and darkens the great days of the birth of Russian liberty.

Working-men of all countries! In fraternally stretching out our hands to you across the mountains
of our brothers' bodies, across the sea of innocent blood and tears, across the smoking ruins
of cities and villages, across the destroyed gifts of civilization, we summon you to the work
of renewing and solidifying international unity. In that lies the guaranty of our future triumph
and of the complete liberation of humanity.

Working-men of all countries, unite!

    TCHCHEIDZE, the President.
    PETROGRAD, April, 1917.

APPENDIX II

HOW THE RUSSIAN PEASANTS FOUGHT FOR A CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY[91]

A report to the International Socialist Bureau by Inna Rakitnikov, Vice-President of the Executive
Committee of the Soviet of Delegates, placing themselves upon the grounds of the defense of
the Constituent Assembly.

With a letter-preface by the citizen, E. Roubanovitch, member of the International Socialist
Bureau.

    To the Executive Committee of the International Socialist
    Bureau:

    DEAR COMRADES,--The citizen Inna Rakitnikov has lately
    come from Petrograd to Paris for personal reasons that are
    peculiarly tragic. At the time of her departure the Executive
    Committee of the Second Soviet of Peasant Delegates of All-Russia,
    of which she is one of the vice-presidents, requested her to make
    to the International Socialist Bureau a detailed report of the
    fights that this organization had to make against the Bolsheviki
    in order to realize the convocation of the Constituent Assembly.

    This is the report under the title of a document that I present
    here, without commentary, asking you to communicate it without
    delay to all the sections of the International. Two words of
    explanation, only: First, I wish to draw your attention to the
    fact that this is the second time that the Executive Committee of
    the Soviet of the Peasants of All-Russia addresses itself publicly
    to the International.

    At the time of my journey to Stockholm in the month of September,
    1917, I made, at a session of the Holland, Scandinavian committee,
    presided over by Branting, a communication in the name of the
    Executive Committee of the Soviet of Peasants. I handed over on
    this occasion to our secretary, Camille Huysmans, an appeal to the
    democrats of the entire world, in which the Executive Committee
    indicated clearly its position in the questions of the world war
    and of agrarian reform, and vindicated its place in the Workers'
    and Socialist International family.

    I must also present to you the author of this report. The citizen
    Rakitnikov, a member of the Russian Revolutionary Socialist party,
    has worked for a long time in the ranks of this party as a
    publicist and organizer and propagandist, especially among the
    peasants. She has known long years of prison, of Siberia, of
    exile. Before and during the war until the beginning of the
    Revolution she lived as a political fugitive in Paris. While being
    a partizan convinced of the necessity of national defense of
    invaded countries against the imperialistic aggression of German
    militarism--in which she is in perfect accord with the members of
    our party such as Stepan Sletof, Iakovlef, and many other
    voluntary Russian republicans, all dead facing the enemy in the
    ranks of the French army--the citizen Rakitnikov belonged to the
    international group.

    Yours fraternally,
    E. ROUBANOVITCH,
    June 28, 1918.
    Member of the B.S.I.

"The Bolsheviki who promised liberty, equality, peace, etc., have not been ashamed to follow
in the footsteps of Czarism. It is not liberty; it is tyranny." (Extract from a letter of a
young Russian Socialist, an enthusiast of liberty who died all too soon.)

I

Organization of the Peasants after the Revolution in Soviets of Peasant Delegates

A short time after the Revolution of February the Russian peasants grouped themselves in a
National Soviet of Peasant Delegates at the First Congress of the Peasants of All-Russia, which
took place at Petrograd. The Executive Committee of this Soviet was elected. It was composed
of well-known leaders of the Revolutionary Socialist party and of peasant delegates sent from
the country. Without adhering officially to the Revolutionary Socialist party, the Soviet of
Peasant Delegates adopted the line of conduct of this party. While co-ordinating its tactics
with the party's, it nevertheless remained an organization completely independent. The Bolsheviki,
who at this Congress attempted to subject the peasants to their influence, had not at the time
any success. The speeches of Lenine and the other members of this party did not meet with any
sympathy, but on the contrary provoked lively protest. The Executive Committee had as its organ
the paper Izvestya of the National Soviet of Peasant Delegates. Thousands of copies of this
were scattered throughout the country. Besides the central national Soviet there existed local
organizations, the Soviets, the government districts who were in constant communication with
the Executive Committee staying at Petrograd.

From its foundation the Executive Committee exercised great energy in the work of the union
and the organization of the peasant masses, and in the development of the Socialist conscience
in their breasts. Its members spread thousands and hundreds of thousands of copies of pamphlets
of the Revolutionary Socialist party, exposing in simple form the essence of Socialism and
the history of the International explaining the sense and the importance of the Revolution
in Russia, the history of the fight that preceded it, showing the significance of the liberties
acquired. They insisted, above all, on the importance of the socialization of the soil and
the convocation of the Constituent Assembly. A close and living tie was created between the
members of the Executive Committee staying at Petrograd and the members in the provinces. The
Executive Committee was truly the expression of the will of the mass of the Russian peasants.

The Minister of Agriculture and the principal agrarian committee were at this time occupied
in preparing the groundwork of the realization of socialization of the soil; the Revolutionary
Socialist party did not cease to press the government to act in this sense. Agrarian committees
were formed at once to fight against the disorganized recovery of lands by the peasants, and
to take under their control large properties where exploitation based on the co-operative principle
was in progress of organization; agricultural improvements highly perfected would thus be preserved
against destruction and pillage. At the same time agrarian committees attended to a just distribution
among the peasants of the lands of which they had been despoiled.

The peasants, taken in a body, and in spite of the agrarian troubles which occurred here and
there, awaited the reform with patience, understanding all the difficulties which its realization
required and all the impossibilities of perfecting the thing hastily. The Executive Committee
of the Soviet of Peasants' Delegates played in this respect an important rôle. It did all it
could to explain to the peasants the complexity of the problem in order to prevent them from
attempting anything anarchistic, or to attempt a disorganized recovery of lands which could
end only with the further enrichment of peasants who were already rich.

Such was, in its general aspect, the action of the National Soviet of Peasants' Delegates,
which, in the month of August, 1917, addressed, through the intermediary of the International
Socialist Bureau, an appeal to the democracies of the world. In order to better understand
the events which followed, we must consider for a moment the general conditions which at that
time existed in Russia, and in the midst of which the action of this organization was taking place.

II

The Difficulties of the Beginning of the Revolution

The honeymoon of the Revolution had passed rapidly. Joy gave place to cares and alarms. Autocracy
had bequeathed to the country an unwieldy heritage: the army and the whole mechanism of the
state were disorganized. Taking advantage of the listlessness of the army, the Bolshevist propaganda
developed and at the same time increased the desire of the soldiers to fight no more. The disorganization
was felt more and more at the front; at the same time anarchy increased in the interior of
the country; production diminished; the productiveness of labor was lowered, and an eight-hour
day became in fact a five or six-hour day. The strained relations between the workers and the
administration were such that certain factories preferred to close. The central power suffered
frequent crises; the Cadets, fearing the responsibilities, preferred to remain out of power.

All this created a state of unrest and hastened the preparations for the election of the Constituent
Assembly, toward which the eyes of the whole country were turned. Nevertheless, the country
was far from chaos and from the anarchy into which further events plunged it. Young Russia,
not accustomed to liberty, without experience in political life and autonomous action, was
far from that hopeless state to which the Bolsheviki reduced it some months later. The people
had confidence in the Socialists, in the Revolutionary Socialist party, which then held sway
everywhere, in the municipalities, the zemstvos, and in the Soviets; they had confidence in
the Constituent Assembly which would restore order and work out the laws. All that was necessary
was to combat certain characteristics and certain peculiarities of the existence of the Russian
people, which impelled them toward anarchy, instead of encouraging them, as did the Bolsheviki,
who, in this respect, followed the line of least resistance.

The Bolshevist propaganda did all within its power to weaken the Provisional Government, to
discredit it in the eyes of the people, to increase the licentiousness at the front and disorganization
in the interior of the country. They proclaimed that the "Imperialists" sent the soldiers to
be massacred, but what they did not say is that under actual conditions it was necessary for
a revolutionary people to have a revolutionary army to defend its liberty. They spoke loudly
for a counter-revolution and for counter-revolutionaries who await but the propitious moment
to take hold of the government, while in reality the complete failure of the insurrection of
Kornilov showed that the counter-revolution could rest on nothing, that there was no place
for it then in the life of Russia.

In fine, the situation of the country was difficult, but not critical. The united efforts of
the people and all the thousands of forces of the country would have permitted it to come to
the end of its difficulties and to find a solution of the situation.

III

The Insurrection of Kornilov

But now the insurrection of Kornilov broke out. It was entirely unexpected by all the Socialist
parties, by their central committees, and, of course, by the Socialist Ministers. Petrograd
was in no way prepared for an attack of this kind. In the course of the evening of the fatal
day when Kornilov approached Petrograd, the central committee of the Revolutionary Socialist
party received by telephone, from the Palace of Hiver, the news of the approach of Kornilovien
troops. This news revolutionized everybody. A meeting of all the organizations took place at
Smolny; the members of the party alarmed by the news, and other persons wishing to know the
truth about the events, or to receive indications as to what should be done, came there to
a reunion. It was a strange picture that Smolny presented that night. The human torrent rushed
along its corridors, committees and commissions sat in its side apartments. They asked one
another what was happening, what was to be done. News succeeded news. One thing was certain.
Petrograd was not prepared for the fight. It was not protected by anything, and the Cossacks
who followed Kornilov could easily take it.

The National Soviet of Peasants' Delegates in the session that it held that same night at No.
6 Fontaka Street adopted a resolution calling all the peasants to armed resistance against
Kornilov. The Central Executive Committee with the Soviet of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates
established a special organization which was to defend Petrograd and to fight against the insurrection.
Detachments of volunteers and of soldiers were directed toward the locality where Kornilov
was, to get information and to organize a propaganda among the troops that followed the General,
and in case of failure to fight hand to hand. As they quit in the morning they did not know
how things would turn; they were rather pessimistic with regard to the issue of the insurrection
for the Socialists.

The end of this conspiracy is known. The troops that followed Kornilov left him as soon as
they found out the truth. In this respect, everything ended well, but this event had profound
and regrettable circumstances.

The acute deplorable crisis of the central power became chronic. The Cadets, compromised by
their participation in the Kornilov conspiracy, preferred to remain apart. The Socialist-Revolutionists
did not see clearly what there was at the bottom of the whole affair. It was as much as any
one knew at the moment. Kerensky, in presence of the menace of the counter-revolution on the
right and of the growing anarchy on the extreme left, would have called to Petrograd a part
of the troops from the front to stem the tide. Such was the rôle of different persons in this
story. It is only later, when all the documents will be shown, that the story can be verified,
but at all events it is beyond doubt that the Revolutionary Socialist party was in no wise
mixed in this conspiracy. The conspiracy of Kornilov completely freed the hands of the Bolsheviki.
In the Pravda, and in other Bolshevist newspapers, complaints were read of the danger of a
new counter-revolution which was developing with the complicity of Kerensky acting in accord
or in agreement with the traitor Cadets. The public was excited against the Socialist-Revolutionists,
who were accused of having secretly helped this counter-revolution. The Bolsheviki alone, said
its organs, had saved the Revolution; to them alone was due the failure of the Kornilov insurrection.

The Bolsheviki agitation assumed large proportions. Copies of the Pravda, spread lavishly here
and there, were poisoned with calumny, campaigns against the other parties, boasting gross
flatteries addressed to the soldiers and appeals to trouble. Bolsheviki meetings permeated
with the same spirit were organized at Petrograd, Moscow, and other cities. Bolshevist agitators
set out for the front at the same time with copies of the Pravda and other papers, and the
Bolsheviki enjoyed, during this time--as Lenine himself admits--complete liberty. Their chiefs,
compromised in the insurrection of June 3d, had been given their freedom.

Their principal watchword was "Down with the war!" "Kerensky and the other conciliators," they
cried, "want war and do not want peace. Kerensky will give you neither peace, nor land, nor
bread, nor Constituent Assembly. Down with the traitor and the counter-revolutionists! They
want to smother the Revolution. We demand peace. We will give you peace, land to the peasants,
factories and work to the workmen!" Under this simple form the agitation was followed up among
the masses and found a propitious ground, first among the soldiers who were tired of war and
athirst for peace. In the Soviet of the Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates of Petrograd the
Bolshevist party soon found itself strengthened and fortified. Its influence was also considerable
among the sailors of the Baltic fleet. Cronstadt was entirely in their hands. New elections
of the Central Executive Committee of the Soviet of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates soon
became necessary; they gave a big majority to the Bolsheviki. The old bureau, Tchcheidze at
its head, had to leave; the Bolsheviki triumphed clamorously.

To fight against the Bolsheviki the Executive Committee of the National Soviet of Peasants'
Delegates decided at the beginning of December to call a Second General Peasants' Congress.
This was to decide if the peasants would defend the Constituent Assembly or if they would follow
the Bolsheviki. This Congress had, in effect, a decisive importance. It showed what was the
portion of the peasant class that upheld the Bolsheviki. It was principally the peasants in
soldiers' dress, the "déclassé soldiers," men taken from the country life by the war, from
their natural surroundings, and desiring but one thing, the end of the war. The peasants who
had come from the country had, on the contrary, received the mandate to uphold the Constituent
Assembly. They firmly maintained their point of view and resisted all the attempts of the Bolsheviki
and the "Socialist-Revolutionists of the Left" (who followed them blindly) to make their influence
prevail. The speech of Lenine was received with hostility; as for Trotzky, who, some time before,
had publicly threatened with the guillotine all the "enemies of the Revolution," they prevented
him from speaking, crying out: "Down with the tyrant! Guillotineur! Assassin!" To give his
speech Trotzky, accompanied by his faithful "capotes," was obliged to repair to another hall.

The Second Peasants' Congress was thus distinctly split into two parties. The Bolsheviki tried
by every means to elude a straight answer to the question, "Does the Congress wish to uphold
the Constituent Assembly?" They prolonged the discussion, driving the peasants to extremities
by every kind of paltry discussion on foolish questions, hoping to tire them out and thus cause
a certain number of them to return home. The tiresome discussions carried on for ten days,
with the effect that a part of the peasants, seeing nothing come from it, returned home. But
the peasants had, in spite of all, the upper hand; by a roll-call vote 359 against 314 pronounced
themselves for the defense without reserve of the Constituent Assembly.

Any work in common for the future was impossible. The fraction of the peasants that pronounced
itself for the Constituent Assembly continued to sit apart, named its Executive Committee,
and decided to continue the fight resolutely. The Bolsheviki, on their part, took their partizans
to the Smolny, declared to be usurpers of the Soviet of Peasants' Delegates who pronounced
themselves for the defense of the Constituante, and, with the aid of soldiers, ejected the
former Executive Committee from their premises and took possession of their goods, the library,
etc.

The new Executive Committee, which did not have at its disposition Red Guards, was obliged
to look for another place, to collect the money necessary for this purpose, etc. Its members
were able, with much difficulty, to place everything upon its feet and to assure the publication
of an organ (the Izvestya of the National Soviet of Peasants' Delegates determined to defend
the Constituent Assembly), to send delegates into different regions, and to establish relations
with the provinces, etc.

Together with the peasants, workmen and Socialist parties and numerous democratic organizations
prepared themselves for the defense of the Constituent Assembly: The Union of Postal Employees,
a part of the Union of Railway Workers, the Bank Employees, the City Employees, the food distributors'
organizations, the teachers' associations, the zemstvos, the co-operatives. These organizations
believed that the coup d'état of October 25th was neither legal nor just; they demanded a convocation
with brief delay of the Constituent Assembly and the restoration of the liberties that were
trampled under foot by the Bolsheviki.

These treated them as saboteurs, "enemies of the people," deprived them of their salaries,
and expelled them from their lodgings. They ordered those who opposed them to be deprived of
their food-cards. They published lists of strikers, thus running the risk of having them lynched
by the crowds. At Saratov, for example, the strike of postal workers and telegraphers lasted
a month and a half. The institutions whose strike would have entailed for the population not
only disorganization, but an arrest of all life (such as the railroads, the organizations of
food distributers), abstained from striking, only asking the Bolsheviki not to meddle with
their work. Sometimes, however, the gross interference of the Bolsheviki in work of which they
understood nothing obliged those opposed to them, in spite of everything, to strike. It is
to be noted also that the professors of secondary schools were obliged to join the strike movements
(the superior schools had already ceased to function at this time) as well as the theatrical
artistes: a talented artist, Silotti, was arrested; he declared that even in the time of Czarism
nobody was ever uneasy on account of his political opinions.

IV

The Bolsheviki and the Constituent Assembly

At the time of the accomplishment of their coup d'état, the Bolsheviki cried aloud that the
ministry of Kerensky put off a long time the convocation of the Constituante (which was a patent
lie), that they would never call the Assembly, and that they alone, the Bolsheviki, would do
it. But according as the results of the elections became known their opinions changed.

In the beginning they boasted of their electoral victories at Petrograd and Moscow. Then they
kept silent, as if the elections had no existence whatever. But the Pravda and the Izvestya
of the Soviet of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates continued to treat as caluminators those
who exposed the danger that was threatening the Constituent Assembly at the hands of the Bolsheviki.
They did not yet dare to assert themselves openly. They had to gain time to strengthen their
power. They hastily followed up peace pourparlers, to place Russia and the Constituent Assembly,
if this met, before an accomplished fact.

They hastened to attract the peasants to themselves. That was the reason which motived the
"decree" of Lenine on the socialization of the soil, which decree appeared immediately after
the coup d'état. This decree was simply a reproduction of a Revolutionary Socialists' resolution
adopted at a Peasants' Congress. What could the socialization of the soil be to Lenine and
all the Bolsheviki in general? They had been, but a short time before, profoundly indifferent
with regard to this Socialist-Revolutionist "Utopia." It had been for them an object of raillery.
But they knew that without this "Utopia" they would have no peasants. And they threw them this
mouthful, this "decree," which astonished the peasants. "Is it a law? Is it not a law? Nobody
knows," they said.

It is the same desire to have, cost what it may, the sympathy of the peasants that explains
the union of the Bolsheviki with those who are called the "Socialist-Revolutionists of the
Left" (for the name Socialist-Revolutionist spoke to the heart of the peasant), who played
the stupid and shameful rôle of followers of the Bolsheviki, with a blind weapon between their
hands.

A part of the "peasants in uniform" followed the Bolsheviki to Smolny. The Germans honored
the Bolsheviki by continuing with them the pourparlers for peace. The Bolshevist government
had at its disposal the Red Guards, well paid, created suddenly in the presence of the crumbling
of the army for fear of remaining without the help of bayonets. These Red Guards, who later
fled in shameful fashion before the German patrols, advanced into the interior of the country
and gained victories over the unarmed populace. The Bolsheviki felt the ground firm under their
feet and threw off the mask. A campaign against the Constituent Assembly commenced. At first
in Pravda and in Izvestya were only questions. What will this Constituent Assembly be? Of whom
will it be composed? It is possible that it will have a majority of servants of the bourgeoisie--Cadets
Socialist-Revolutionists. Can we confide to such a Constituent Assembly the destinies of the
Russian Revolution? Will it recognize the power of the Soviets? Then came certain hypocritical
"ifs." "If," yes, "if" the personnel of the Constituent Assembly is favorable to us; "if" it
will recognize the power of the Soviets, it can count on their support. If not--it condemns
itself to death.

The Socialist-Revolutionists of the Left in their organ, The Flag of Labor, repeated in the
wake of the Bolsheviki, "We will uphold the Constituent Assembly in the measure we--"

Afterward we see no longer questions or prudent "ifs," but distinct answers. "The majority
of the Constituent Assembly is formed," said the Bolsheviki, "of Socialist-Revolutionists and
Cadets--that is to say, enemies of the people. This composition assures it of a counter-revolutionary
spirit. Its destiny is therefore clear. Historic examples come to its aid. The victorious people
has no need of a Constituent Assembly. It is above the Constituante. It has gone beyond it."
The Russian people, half illiterate, were made to believe that in a few weeks they had outgrown
the end for which millions of Russians had fought for almost a century; that they no longer
had need of the most perfect form of popular representation, such as did not exist even in
the most cultivated countries of western Europe. To the Constituent Assembly, legislative organ
due to equal, direct, and secret universal suffrage, they opposed the Soviets, with their recruiting
done by hazard and their elections to two or three degrees,[92] the Soviets which were the
revolutionary organs and not the legislative organs, and whose rôle besides none of those who
fought for the Constituent Assembly sought to diminish.

V

The Fight Concentrates Around the Constituent Assembly

This was a maneuver whose object appeared clearly. The defenders of the Constituent Assembly
had evidence of what was being prepared. The peasants who waited with impatience the opening
of the Constituent Assembly sent delegates to Petrograd to find out the cause of the delay
of the convocation. These delegates betook themselves to the Executive Committee of the Soviet
of Peasants' Delegates (11 Kirillovskaia Street), and to the Socialist-Revolutionist fraction
of the members of the Constituante (2 Bolotnai Street). This last fraction worked actively
at its proper organization. A bureau of organization was elected, commissions charged to elaborate
projects of law for the Constituante. The fraction issued bulletins explaining to the population
the program which the Socialist-Revolutionists were going to defend at the Constituante. Active
relations were undertaken with the provinces. At the same time the members of the fraction,
among whom were many peasants and workmen, followed up an active agitation in the workshops
and factories of Petrograd, and among the soldiers of the Preobrajenski Regiment and some others.
The members of the Executive Committee of the Soviet of Peasants' Delegates worked in concert
with them. It was precisely the opinion of the peasants and of the workmen which had most importance
in the fight against the Bolsheviki. They, the true representatives of the people, were listened
to everywhere; people were obliged to reckon with them.

It was under these conditions that the Democratic Conference met. Called by the Provisional
Government, it comprised representatives of the Soviets, of parties, of organizations of the
army, peasant organizations, co-operatives, zemstvos, agricultural committees, etc. Its object
was to solve the question of power until the meeting of the Constituent Assembly.

At this conference the Bolsheviki formed only a small minority; but they acted as masters of
the situation, calling, in a provocative manner, all those who were not in accord with them,
"Kornilovist, counter-revolutionaries, traitors!" Because of this attitude the conference,
which ought to have had the character of an assembly deciding affairs of state, took on the
character of a boisterous meeting, which lasted several days of unending twaddle. What the
Bolsheviki wanted was a verbal victory--to have shouted more loudly than their opponents. The
same speeches were repeated every day. Some upheld a power exclusively Socialist, others--the
majority composed of delegates from different corners of the country--sanctioned an agreement
with all the democratic elements.

The provincial delegates, having come with a view to serious work, returned to their homes,
carrying with them a painful impression of lost opportunities, of useless debates.

There remained but a few weeks before the convocation of the Constituent Assembly. Those who
voted against a government exclusively Socialist did not think that, under the troublesome
conditions of the time, they could expose the country to the risk of a dispersion of strength;
they feared the possible isolation of the government in face of certain elements whose help
could not be relied on. But they did not take into account a fact which had resulted from the
Kornilovist insurrection: the natural distrust of the working masses in presence of all the
non-Socialists, of those who--not being in immediate contact with them--placed themselves,
were it ever so little, more on the right.

The Democratic conference resulted in the formation of a Pre-Parliament. There the relations,
between the forces in presence of each other, were about the same. Besides the Bolsheviki soon
abandoned the Pre-Parliament, for they were already preparing their insurrection which curtailed
the dissolution of that institution.

"We are on the eve of a Bolshevik insurrection"--such was, at this time, the opinion of all
those who took part in political life. "We are rushing to it with dizzy rapidity. The catastrophe
is inevitable." But what is very characteristic is this, that, while preparing their insurrection,
the Bolsheviki, in their press, did not hesitate to treat as liars and calumniators all those
who spoke of the danger of this insurrection, and that on the eve of a conquest of power (with
arms ready) premeditated and well prepared in advance.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the whole period that preceded the Bolshevik insurrection a great creative work was
being carried on in the country in spite of the undesirable phenomena of which we have spoken
above.

1. With great difficulty there were established organs of a local, autonomous administration,
volost and district zemstvos, which were to furnish a basis of organization to the government
zemstvos. The zemstvo of former times was made up of only class representatives; the elections
to the new zemstvos were effected by universal suffrage, equal, direct, and secret. These elections
were a kind of schooling for the population, showing it the practical significance of universal
suffrage, and preparing it for the elections to the Constituent Assembly. At the same time
they laid the foundation of a local autonomous administration.

2. Preparations for the election to the Constituent Assembly were made; an agitation, an intense
propaganda followed; preparations of a technical order were made. This was a difficult task
because of the great number of electors, the dispersion of the population, the great number
of illiterate, etc. Everywhere special courts had been established, in view of the elections,
to train agitators and instructors, who afterward were sent in great numbers into the country.

3. At the same time the ground was hurriedly prepared for the law concerning the socialization
of the soil. The abandonment of his post by Tchernov, Minister of Agriculture, did not stop
this work. The principal agricultural committee and the Minister of Agriculture, directed by
Rakitnikov and Vikhiliaev, hastened to finish this work before the convocation of the Constituent
Assembly. The Revolutionary Socialist party decided to keep for itself the post of Minister
of Agriculture; for the position they named S. Maslov, who had to exact from the government
an immediate vote on the law concerning the socialization of the soil. The study of this law
in the Council of Ministers was finished. Nothing more remained to be done but to adopt and
promulgate it. Because of the excitement of the people in the country, it was decided to do
this at once, without waiting for the Constituent Assembly. Finally, to better realize the
conditions of the time, it must be added that the whole country awaited anxiously the elections
to the Constituent Assembly. All believed that this was going to settle the life of Russia.

VI

The Bolshevist Insurrection

It was under these conditions that the Bolshevist coup d'état happened. In the capitals as
well as in the provinces, it was accomplished by armed force; at Petrograd, with the help of
the sailors of the Baltic fleet, of the soldiers of the Preobrajenski, Semenovski, and other
regiments, in other towns with the aid of the local garrisons.

The population was perplexed; the people thought that they had sent to the Town Hall Socialists,
men of their choice. Now these men were declared "enemies of the people," were shot down or
arrested by other Socialists. What did all this mean? And the inhabitant of Saratov felt a
fear stealing into his soul at the sight of this violence; he began to doubt the value of the
Socialist idea in general. The faith of former times gave place to doubt, disappointment, and
discouragement.

The sensible part of the population of Saratov severely condemned these acts in a series of
Manifestos signed by the Printers' Union, the mill workers, the City Employees' Union, Postal
and Telegraph Employees, students' organizations, and many other democratic associations and
organizations.

The peasants received the coup d'état with distinct hostility. Meetings and reunions were soon
organized in the villages. Resolutions were voted censuring the coup d'état of violence, deciding
to organize to resist the Bolsheviki, and demanding the removal of the Bolshevist soldier members
from the rural communes. The elections to the Constituent Assembly were a decisive victory
for the Revolutionary Socialist party.

Such was the response of Russia to the Bolshevik coup d'état.

VII

The Fight Against the Bolsheviki

But the final result of the elections was not established forthwith. In many places the elections
had to be postponed. The Bolshevik coup d'état had disorganized life, had upset postal and
telegraphic communications, and had even destroyed, in certain localities, the electoral mechanism
itself by the arrest of the active workers. The elections which began in the middle of November
were not concluded till toward the month of January.

In the mean time, in the country a fierce battle was raging against the Bolsheviki. It was
not, on the part of their adversaries, a fight for power. If the Socialist-Revolutionists had
wished they could have seized the power; to do that they had only to follow the example of
those who were called "the Revolutionary Socialists of the Left." Not only did they not follow
their example, but they also excluded them from their midst. A short time after the Bolshevik
insurrection, when the part taken in this insurrection by certain Revolutionary Socialists
of the Left was found out, the Central Committee of the Revolutionary Socialist party voted
to exclude them from the party for having violated the party discipline and having adopted
tactics contrary to its principles. This exclusion was confirmed afterward by the Fourth Congress
of the party, which took place in December, 1917.

Soon after the coup d'état of October the question was among all parties and all organizations:
"What is to be done? How will the situation be remedied?" The remedy included three points.
First, creation of a power composed of the representatives of all Socialist organizations,
with the "Populist-Socialists" on the extreme right, and with the express condition that the
principal actors in the Bolshevik coup d'état would not have part in the Ministry. Second,
immediate establishment of the democratic liberties, which were trampled under foot by the
Bolsheviki, without which any form of Socialism is inconceivable. Third, convocation without
delay of the Constituent Assembly.

Such were the conditions proposed to the Bolsheviki in the name of several Socialist parties
(the Revolutionary Socialist party, the Mensheviki, the Populist-Socialists, etc.), and of
several democratic organizations (Railroad Workers' Union, Postal and Telegraphic Employees'
Union, etc.). The Bolsheviki, at this time, were not sure of being able to hold their position;
certain Commissaries of the People, soon after they were installed in power, handed in their
resignation, being terrified by the torrents of blood that were shed at Moscow and by the cruelties
which accompanied the coup d'état. The Bolsheviki pretended to accept the pourparlers, but
kept them dragging along so as to gain time. In the mean time they tried to strengthen themselves
in the provinces, where they gained victories such as that of Saratov; they actively rushed
the pourparlers for peace; they had to do it at all cost, even if, in doing it, they had to
accept the assistance of the traitor and spy, by name Schneur, for they had promised peace
to the soldiers.

For this it sufficed them to have gained some victories in the provinces, and that the Germans
accepted the proposition of pourparlers of peace ("the German generals came to meet us in gala
attire, wearing their ribbons and decorations," with triumph announced in their appeal to the
Russian people the representatives of this "Socialist" government Schneur & Co.), for this
the Bolsheviki henceforth refused every compromise and all conference with the other parties.
For the other parties--those who did not recognize the Bolshevik coup d'état and did not approve
of the violence that was perpetrated--there was only one alternative, the fight.

It was the Revolutionary Socialist party and the National Soviet of Peasants' Delegates that
had to bear the brunt of this fight, which was carried on under extremely difficult conditions.
The arrest of the whole Central Committee of the Revolutionary Socialist party was to be carried
out as well as the arrest of all the Socialist-Revolutionists, and of all the Mensheviki in
sight. The Bolshevist press became infuriated, exclaiming against the "counter-revolution,"
against their "complicity" with Kornilov and Kalodine.

All those who did not adhere to the Bolsheviki were indignant at the sight of the crimes committed,
and wished to defend the Constituent Assembly. Knowingly, and in a premeditated manner, the
Bolshevist press excited the soldiers and the workmen against all other parties. And then when
the unthinking masses, drunk with flattery and hatred, committed acts of lynching, the Bolshevist
leaders expressed sham regrets! Thus it was after the death of Doukhonine, who was cut to pieces
by the sailors; and thus it was after the dastardly assassination of the Cadets, Shingariev
and Kokochkine, after the shootings en masse and the drowning of the officers.

It was under these conditions that the fight was carried on; and the brunt of it, as I have
already stated, was sustained by the Revolutionary Socialist party and the National Soviet
of Peasants' Delegates, and it was against these two that the Bolsheviki were particularly
infuriated. "Now it is not the Cadets who are dangerous to us," said they, "but the Socialist-Revolutionists--these
traitors, these enemies of the people." The most sacred names of the Revolution were publicly
trampled under foot by them. Their cynicism went so far as to accuse Breshkovskaya, "the Grandmother
of the Russian Revolution," of having sold out to the Americans. Personally I had the opportunity
to hear a Bolshevist orator, a member of the Executive Committee of the Soviet of Workmen's
and Soldiers' Delegates, express this infamous calumny at a meeting organized by the Preobrajenski
Regiment. The Bolsheviki tried, by every means, to crush the party, to reduce it to a clandestine
existence. "From the time that the party is placed in a fight under conditions which differ
nothing from those of Czarism, ancient methods are to be resumed; violence must be opposed
to violence," they said. But the Congress spurned this means; the Revolutionary Socialist party
did not adopt the methods of terrorism; it could not do it, because the Bolsheviki were, after
all, followed by the masses--unthinking, it is true, but the masses, nevertheless. It is by
educating them, and not by the use of violence, that they are to be fought against. Terrorist
acts could bring nothing but a bloody suppression.

VIII

The Second Peasant Congress

In the space of a month a great amount of work was accomplished. A breach was made in the general
misunderstanding. Moral help was assured to the Constituent Assembly on the part of the workmen
and part of the soldiers of Petrograd. There was no longer any confidence placed in the Bolsheviki.
Besides, the agitation was not the only cause of this change. The workers soon came to understand
that the Bolshevik tactics could only irritate and disgust the great mass of the population,
that the Bolsheviki were not the representatives of the workers, that their promises of land,
of peace, and other earthly goods were only a snare. The industrial production diminished more
and more; numerous factories and shops closed their doors and thousands of workmen found themselves
on the streets. The population of Petrograd, which, at first, received a quarter of a pound
of bread per day (a black bread made with straw), had now but one-eighth of a pound, while
in the time of Kerensky the ration was half a pound. The other products (oatmeal, butter, eggs,
milk) were entirely lacking or cost extremely high prices. One ruble fifty copecks for a pound
of potatoes, six rubles a pound of meat, etc. The transportation of products to Petrograd had
almost ceased. The city was on the eve of famine.

The workers were irritated by the violence and the arbitrary manner of the Bolsheviki, and
by the exploits of the Red Guard, well paid, enjoying all the privileges, well nourished, well
clothed, and well shod in the midst of a Petrograd starving and in rags.

Discontent manifested itself also among the soldiers of the Preobrajenski and Litovsky regiments,
and others. In this manner in the day of the meeting of the Constituent Assembly they were
no longer very numerous. What loud cries, nevertheless, they had sent forth lately when Kerensky
wished to send the Preobrajenski and Seminovski regiments from Petrograd! "What? Send the revolutionary
regiments from Petrograd? To make easier the surrender of the capital to the counter-revolution?"
The soldiers of the Preobrajenski Regiment organized in their barracks frequent meetings, where
the acts of the Bolsheviki were sharply criticized; they started a paper, The Soldiers' Cloak,
which was confiscated.

On the other hand, here is one of the resolutions voted by the workers of the Putilov factory:

    The Constituent Assembly is the only organ expressing the will of
    the entire people. It alone is able to reconstitute the unity of
    the country.

The majority of the deputies to the Constituent Assembly who had for some time been elected
had arrived in Petrograd, and the Bolsheviki always retarded the opening. The Socialist-Revolutionist
fraction started conferences with the other fractions on the necessity for fixing a day for
the opening of the Constituante, without waiting the good pleasure of the Commissaries of the
People. They chose the date, December 27th, but the opening could not take place on that day,
the Ukrainian fraction having suddenly abandoned the majority to join themselves to the Bolsheviki
and the Revolutionary Socialists of the Left. Finally, the government fixed the opening of
the Constituent Assembly for the 5th (18th) of January.

Here is a document which relates this fight for the date of the opening of the Constituante:

    Bulletin of Members of the Constituent Assembly Belonging to the
    Socialist-Revolutionist Fraction. No. 5, Dec. 31, 1917.

    To All the Citizens:

    The Socialist-Revolutionist fraction of the Constituent Assembly
    addresses the whole people the present exposé of the reasons for
    which the Constituent Assembly has not been opened until this day:
    it warns them, at the same time, of the danger which threatens the
    sovereign rights of the people.

    Let it be thus placed in clear daylight, the true character of
    those who, under pretext of following the well-being of the
    workers, forge new chains for liberated Russia, those who attempt
    to assassinate the Constituent Assembly, which alone is able to
    save Russia from the foreign yoke and from the despotism which has
    been born within.

    Let all the citizens know that the hour is near when they must be
    ready to rise like one man for the defense of their liberty and
    their Constituent Assembly.

    For, citizens, your salvation is solely in your own hands.

    Citizens! you know that on the day assigned for the opening of the
    Constituent Assembly, November 28th, all the
    Socialist-Revolutionist deputies who were elected had come to
    Petrograd. You know that neither violence of a usurping power nor
    arrests of our comrades, by force of arms which were opposed to us
    at the Taurida Palace, could prevent us from assembling and
    fulfilling our duty.

    But the civil war which has spread throughout the country retarded
    the election to the Constituent Assembly and the number of
    deputies elected was insufficient.

    It was necessary to postpone the opening of the Constituent
    Assembly.

    Our fraction utilized this forced delay by an intensive
    preparatory work. We elaborated, in several commissions, projects
    of law concerning all the fundamental questions that the
    Constituante would have to solve. We adopted the project of our
    fundamental law on the question of the land; we elaborated the
    measures which the Constituante would have to take from the very
    first day in order to arrive at a truly democratic peace, so
    necessary to our country; we discussed the principles which should
    direct the friendly dwelling together of all the nationalities
    which people Russia and assure each people a national point of
    view, the free disposition of itself, thus putting an end to the
    fratricidal war.

    Our fraction would have been all ready for the day of the opening
    of the Constituante, in order to commence, from the first, a
    creative work and give to the impoverished country peace, bread,
    land, and liberty.

    At the same time, we did our utmost to accelerate the arrival of
    the deputies and the opening of the Assembly.

    During this time events became more and more menacing every day,
    the Bolshevik power was more rapidly leading our country to its
    fall. From before the time when the Germans had presented their
    conditions of peace the Bolsheviki had destroyed the army,
    suppressed its provisioning, and stripped the front, while at the
    same time by civil war and the looting of the savings of the
    people they achieved the economic ruin of the country. Actually,
    they recognized themselves that the German conditions were
    unacceptable and invited the reconstruction of the army. In spite
    of this, these criminals do not retire; they will achieve their
    criminal work.

    Russia suffers in the midst of famine, of civil war, and enemy
    invasion which threatens to reach even the heart of the country.

    No delay is permissible.

    Our fraction fixed on the 27th of December the last delay for the
    opening of the Constituante; on this day more than half of the
    deputies could have arrived in Petrograd. We entered into
    conference with the other fractions. The Ukrainians, some other
    national fractions, and the Menshevik Social Democrats adhered to
    our resolution. The Revolutionary Socialists of the Left
    hypocritically declared themselves partizans of an early opening
    of the Constituante. But behold, the Council of the so-called
    "Commissaries of the People" fixed the opening for the 5th of
    January. At the same time they called for the 8th of January a
    Congress of the Soviets of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates,
    thus hoping to be able to trick and to cover with the name of this
    Congress their criminal acts. The object of this postponement is
    clear; they did not even hide it and threatened to dissolve the
    Constituent Assembly in case that it did not submit to the
    Bolshevik Congress of Soviets. The same threat was repeated by
    those who are called Socialist-Revolutionists of the Left.

    The delegation of the Ukrainian Revolutionary Socialists abandoned
    us also and submitted to the order for the convocation on January
    5th, considering that the fight of the Bolshevik power against the
    Constituent Assembly is an internal question, which interests only
    Greater Russia.

    Citizens! We shall be there, too, on January 5th, so that the
    least particle of responsibility for the sabotage of the
    Constituent Assembly may not fall upon us.

    But we do not think that we can suspend our activity with regard
    to the speediest possible opening of the Constituent Assembly.

    We address an energetic appeal to all the deputies; in the name of
    the fatherland, in the name of the Revolution, in the name of the
    duty which devolves upon you by reason of your election, come,
    all, to Petrograd! On the 1st of January all the deputies present
    will decide on the day for the opening of the Constituent
    Assembly.

    We appeal to you, citizens! Remind your elected representatives of
    their duty.

    And remember that your salvation is solely in your own hands, a
    mortal danger threatens the Constituent Assembly; be all ready to
    rise in its defense!

    THE REVOLUTIONARY SOCIALIST FRACTION OF THE CONSTITUENT
    ASSEMBLY.

On the 3d of January the League for the Defense of the Constituent Assembly held a meeting
at which were present 210 delegates, representing the Socialist parties as well as various
democratic organizations and many factories--that of Putilov, that of Oboukhov, and still others
from the outskirts of Narva, from the districts of Viborg, Spassky, and Petrogradsky, from
the Isle Vassily. It was decided to organize for January 5th a peaceful display in honor of
the opening of the Constituent Assembly.

The Bolsheviki answered this by furious articles in the Pravda, urging the people not to spare
the counter-revolutionaries, these bourgeoisie who intend, by means of their Constituante,
to combat the revolutionary people. They advised the people of Petrograd not to go out on the
streets that day. "We shall act without reserve," they added.

Sailors were called from Cronstadt; cruisers and torpedo-boats came. An order was issued to
the sailors and to the Red Guards who patrolled all the works of the Taurida, to make use of
their arms if any one attempted to enter the palace. For that day unlimited powers were accorded
to the military authorities. At the same time an assembly of the representatives of the garrison
at Petrograd, fixed for that day, was proscribed, and the newspaper, The Soldiers' Cloak, was
suppressed.

A Congress of Soviets was called for the 8th of January. They prepared the dissolution of the
Constituent Assembly and they wanted to place the Congress before the accomplished fact.

    The Bolsheviki have fixed the 5th of January for the opening of
    the Constituent Assembly; for the 8th of January they call the III
    Congress of the Soviets of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates, and
    for the 13th the Peasant Congress.

    The peasants are, by design, relegated to the background.

    An outrage against the Constituent Assembly is being prepared.

    In this historic moment the peasants cannot remain aloof.

    The Provisional Executive Committee of the National Soviet of
    Peasants' Delegates, which goes on duty as a guard to the
    Constituent Assembly, has decided to call, on the 8th of January,
    also, the Third National Congress of the Soviets of Peasants'
    Delegates. The representation remains the same as before. Send
    your delegates at once to Petrograd, Grand Bolotnai, 2A.

    The fate of the Constituent Assembly is the fate of Russia, the
    fate of the Revolution.

    All up for the defense of the Constituent Assembly, for the
    defense of the Revolution--not by word alone, but by acts!

    [Signed] The Provisional Executive Committee of the National
    Soviet of Peasants' Delegates, upholding the principle of the
    defense of the Constituent Assembly. Our cry of alarm is addressed to
    all those to whom the work of the Soviets is dear. Know that a
    traitorous blow threatens the revolutionary fatherland, the
    Constituent Assembly, and even the work of the Soviets. Your duty
    is to prepare yourselves for their defense.

    The Central Executive Committee, nominated at the October
    Congress, calls together for the 8th of January a Congress of
    Soviets, destined to bungle the Constituent Assembly.

    Comrades! The Second Congress of Soviets assembled at the end of
    October, under conditions particularly unfavorable, at the time
    that the Bolshevik party, won over by its leaders to a policy of
    adventure, a plot unbecoming a class organization, executed at
    Petrograd a coup d'état which gave it power; at a time when
    certain groups with the same viewpoint disorganized even the
    method of convocation of the Second Congress, thus openly aspiring
    to falsify the results; at this same Congress the regular
    representatives of the army were lacking (only two armies being
    represented), and the Soviets of the provinces were very
    insufficiently represented (only about 120 out of 900). Under
    these conditions it is but natural that the Central Executive
    Committee of the Soviets chosen at the first election would not
    recognize the right of this Congress to decide the politics of the
    Soviets.

    However, in spite of the protestations, and even of the departure
    of a great number of delegates (those of the Revolutionary
    Socialist fraction, Mensheviki, and Populist-Socialists), a new
    Executive Committee of the Soviets was elected. To consider this
    last as the central director of all the Soviets of the country was
    absolutely impossible. The delegates who remained in the Congress
    formed only an assembly of a group with a little fraction of the
    Revolutionary Socialists of the Left, who had given their adhesion
    to them. Thus the Central Committee named by their Conference
    could not be considered except as representatives of these two
    groups only.

    Bringing to the organization of Soviets an unheard-of disorder,
    establishing by their shameful methods of fighting its domination
    over the Soviets, some of which were taken by surprise, the others
    terrorized and broken in their personnel, deceiving the working
    class and the army by its short-sighted policy of adventure, the
    new Executive Committee during the two months that have since
    passed has attempted to subject all the Soviets of Russia to its
    influence. It succeeded in part in this, in the measure in which
    the confidence of the groups which constituted it in the policy
    was not yet exhausted. But a considerable portion of the Soviets,
    as well as fractions of other Soviets, fractions composed of the
    most devoted and experienced fighters, continued to follow the
    only true revolutionary road; to develop the class organization of
    the working masses, to direct their intellectual and political
    life, to develop the political and social aspects of the
    Revolution, to exert, by all the power of the working class
    organized into Soviets, the necessary pressure to attain the end
    that it proposed. The questions of peace and of war, that of the
    organization of production and of food-supply, and that of the
    fight for the Constituent Assembly are in the first place. The
    policy of adventure of the groups which seized the power is on the
    eve of failure. Peace could not be realized by a rupture with the
    Allies and an entente with the imperialistic orb of the Central
    Powers. By reason of this failure of the policy of the
    Commissaires of the People, of the disorganization of production
    (which, among other things, has had as a result the creation of
    hundreds of thousands of unemployed), by reason of the civil war
    kindled in the country and the absence of a power recognized by
    the whole people, the Central Powers tend to take hold in the most
    cynical fashion of a whole series of western provinces (Poland,
    Lithuania, Courland), and to subject the whole country to their
    complete economic, if not political, domination.

    The question of provisioning has taken on an unheard-of acuteness;
    the gross interference in the functioning of organs already
    created for this object, and the civil war kindled everywhere
    throughout the country, have completely demoralized the
    provisioning of wheat in regions where they had none, the north
    and the army are found on the eve of famine.

    Industry is dying. Hundreds of factories and workshops are
    stopped. The short-sighted policy of the Commissaries has caused
    hundreds of workmen to be thrown on the streets and become
    unemployed. The will of the entire people is threatened with being
    violated. The usurpers who in October got hold of the power by
    launching the word of order for a swift convocation of the
    Constituent Assembly strive hard, now that the elections are over,
    to retain the power in their hands by arresting the deputies and
    dissolving the Constituante itself.

    All that which the country holds of life, and in the first place
    all the working class and all the army, ought to rise with arms in
    their hands to defend the popular power represented by the
    Constituante, which must bring peace to the people and consolidate
    by legislative means the revolutionary conquests of the working
    class.

    In bringing this to your knowledge, the Central Committee chosen
    at the first elections invites you, Comrades, to place yourself
    immediately in agreement with it.

    Considering the Congress of October as incompetent, the Central
    Committee chosen at the first elections has decided to begin a
    preparatory work in view of the convocation of a new Congress of
    the Soviets of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates.

    In the near future, while the Commissaires of the People, in the
    persons of Lenine and Trotzky, are going to fight against the
    sovereign power of the Constituent Assembly, we shall have to
    intervene with all our energy in the conflict artificially encited
    by the adventurers, between that Assembly and the Soviets. It
    will be our task to aid the Soviets in taking consciousness of
    their rôle, in defining their political lines, and in determining
    their functions and those of the Constituante.

    Comrades! The convocation of the Congress for the 8th of January
    is dictated by the desire to provoke a conflict between the
    Soviets and the Constituante, and thus botch this last. Anxious
    for the fate of the country, the Executive Committee chosen at the
    first elections decides to convoke at Petrograd for the 8th of
    January an extraordinary assembly of all the Soviets, all the
    Committees of the Army and the Navy, all the fractions of the
    Soviets and military committees, all the organizations that
    cluster around the Soviets and the Committees that are standing
    upon the ground of the defense of the Constituante. The following
    are the Orders of the Day:

    1. The power of the Constituent Assembly.
    2. The fight for the general democratic peace and the re-establishment
    of the International.
    3. The immediate problems of the policy of the Soviets.

    Comrades! Assure for this extraordinary assembly of Soviets the
    most complete representation of all the organizations of workmen
    and soldiers. Establish at once election centers. We have a fight
    to uphold.

    In the name of the Revolution, all the reason and all the energy
    ought to be thrown into the balance.

    25 December, 1917. The
members of the Executive Committee of the Soviet of Peasants' Delegates
had agreed to meet at the Field, of Mars where a procession coming from the
Petrogradsky quarter was due to arrive. It was soon learned that a part of
the participants, coming from the Viborg quarter, had been assailed at the
Liteiny bridge by gunfire from the Red Guards and were obliged to turn
back. But that did not check the other parades. The peasant participants,
united with the workers from Petrogradsky quarter, came to the Field of
Mars; after having lowered their flags before the tombs of the Revolution
of February and sung a funeral hymn to their memory, they installed
themselves on Liteinaia Street. New manifestants came to join them and the
street was crowded with people. At the corner of Fourstatskaia Street (one
of the Streets leading to the Taurida Palace) they found themselves all at
once assailed by shots from the Red Guards.

The Red Guard fired without warning, something that never before happened, even in the time
of Czarism. The police always began by inviting the participators to disperse. An explosive
bullet shot away half of his head (a photograph of his body was taken; it was added to the
documents which were transferred to the Commission of Inquiry). Several workmen and students
and one militant of the Revolutionary Socialist party, Gorbatchevskaia, were killed at the
same time. Other processions of participants on their way to the Taurida Palace were fired
into at the same time. On all the streets leading to the palace, groups of Red Guards had been
established; they received the order "Not to spare the cartridges." On that day at Petrograd
there were one hundred killed and wounded.

It must be noted that when, at a session of the Constituent Assembly, in the Taurida Palace,
they learned of this shooting, M. Steinberg, Commissioner of Justice, declared in the corridor
that it was a lie, that he himself had visited the streets of Petrograd and had found everywhere
that "all was quiet." Exactly as the Ministers of Nicholas Romanov after the suppressions said
"Lie. Lie," so cried the Bolsheviki and the Revolutionary Socialists of the Left, in response
to the question formally put on the subject of the shooting by a member of the Constituent
Assembly.

The following day the Bolshevik organs and those of the Revolutionary Socialists of the Left
passed over these facts in silence. This silence they kept also on the 9th of January, the
day on which literally all Petrograd assembled at the funeral of the victims. Public indignation,
however, obliged them in the end to admit that there had been some small groups of participants
and to name a Commission of Inquiry concerning the street disorders which had taken place on
January 5th. This Commission was very dilatory in the performance of its duty and it is very
doubtful if they ever came to any decision.

Analogous manifestations took place at Moscow, at Saratov and other cities; everywhere they
were accompanied by shootings. The number of victims was particularly considerable at Moscow.

X

At the Taurida Palace on the Day of the Opening of the Constituent Assembly

The Taurida Palace on that day presented a strange aspect. At every door, in the corridors,
in the halls, everywhere soldiers and sailors and Red Guards armed with guns and hand-grenades,
who at every turn demanded your pass. It was no easy matter to get into the palace. Nearly
all the places reserved for the public were occupied by the Bolsheviki and their friends. The
appearance of the Taurida Palace was not that of a place where the free representatives of
a free people were going to assemble.

The Bolsheviki delayed as much as possible the opening of the session. It was only at four
o'clock instead of at midday that they deigned to make up their minds. They and the Revolutionary
Socialists of the Left occupied seats of the extreme left; then came the Revolutionary Socialists,
the Mensheviki, and the other Socialist fractions. The seats on the right remained vacant.
The few Cadets that had been chosen preferred not to come. In this manner the Constituent Assembly
was composed at this first and last session solely of Socialists. This, however, did not prevent
the presence in the corridors and the session hail of a crowd of sailors and Red Guards armed,
as if it were a question of an assembly of conspirators, enemies of the Revolution.

From the beginning a fight was started by the election of president. The majority nominated
for the office of president Chernov; the Bolsheviki and the Revolutionary Socialists of the
Left voted against him. The Bolsheviki did not propose any candidate of their own, and placed
before the members the candidacy of a Revolutionary Socialist of the Left, Marie Spiridonova,
who was totally incapable of fulfilling this rôle. Afterward several declarations were read--that
of the Bolsheviki, that of the Socialist-Revolutionists (read by Chernov), that of the Mensheviki
(read by Tseretelli). The partizans of each fraction greeted the reading of their own declaration
with deafening applause (for the audience was one of "comrades" and did not hesitate to take
part in the debates); cat-calls and shouts greeted the orators of the opposing fractions. Each
word of the declarations of the Socialist-Revolutionists and of the Mensheviki (declarations
which every Socialist could sign) was received with a round of hisses, shouts, deafening cries,
exclamations of contempt for the Bolsheviki, the sailors, and the soldiers. The speech of Chernov--president
and member of a detested party--had above all the honor of such a greeting. As for Tseretelli,
he was at first greeted by an inconceivable din, but was able afterward--his speech was so
full of profound sense--to capture the attention of the Bolsheviki themselves.

A general impression that was extremely distressing came from this historic session. The attitude
of the Bolsheviki was grossly unbecoming and provocative of disdain. It indicated clearly that
the dissolution of the Constituante was, for them, already decided. Lenine, who continually
kept contemptuous silence, wound up by stretching himself upon his bench and pretending to
sleep. Lunotcharsky from his ministerial bench pointed contemptuously with his finger toward
the white hair of a veteran of the Revolutionary Socialist party. The sailors leveled the muzzles
of their revolvers at the Socialist-Revolutionists. The audience laughed, whistled, and shouted.

The Bolsheviki finally left the Assembly, followed, as might be understood, by their servants,
the Revolutionary Socialists of the Left. The fractions which remained voted the law proposed
by the Socialist-Revolutionists on the transfer of the lands to common ownership (socialization
of the soil). The sailors and Red Guards attempted several times to interrupt the session.
At five o'clock in the morning they finally demanded with a loud voice that everybody leave.

"We were obliged to go," said, later, the members of the Constituent Assembly at a meeting
of the Executive Committee of the Soviet of Peasants' Delegates in recounting these tragic
moments, "not that we were afraid of being shot; we were prepared for that, and each one of
us expected it, but fear of something else which is far worse: for fear of insults and gross
violence. We were only a handful; what was that beside those great big fellows full of malice
toward the Constituante and of defiance for the 'enemies of the people,' the 'servants of the
bourgeoisie,' which we were in their eyes, thanks to the lies and the calumnies of the Bolsheviki?
Careful of our dignity, and out of respect for the place where we were, we could not permit
ourselves to be cuffed, nor that they throw us out of the Taurida Palace by force--and that
is what would have inevitably happened."

It was thus that the Constituent Assembly ended. The Socialist-Revolutionist fraction maintained
an attitude of surprising calm and respectful bearing, not allowing itself to be disturbed
by any provocation. The correspondents of foreign newspapers congratulated the members and
said to them that in this session to which the Bolsheviki had wished to give the character
of "any-old-kind-of-a-meeting" all the fractions maintained a truly parliamentary attitude.

The Bolshevik terror became rife. All the newspapers that tried to open the eyes of the people
as to what was happening were confiscated. Every attempt to circulate the Dielo Naroda or other
newspapers of the opposition was severely punished. The volunteer venders of these papers were
arrested, cruelly struck down by rifle butts, and sometimes even shot. The population, indignant,
gathered in groups on the streets, but the Red Guards dispersed all assemblages.

XI

The Dissolution of the Third All-Russian Peasants' Congress

This is the course of the events which followed the dissolution of the Constituante. On the
8th of January the members of the Constituante assembled at Bolotnaia; two were arrested; the
premises of the fraction were occupied by the Red Guards. On the 9th of January took place
the funeral of the victims, in which all Petrograd took part. The Bolsheviki this time did
not dare to shoot into the magnificent procession preceded by a long line of coffins. The 10th
of January they dispersed the Third All-Russian Congress of Peasants which had placed itself
on the side of the Constituent Assembly. The Congress had been at first arranged for the 8th
of January (the same day as the Bolshevik Congress of the Soviets), but, because of the events,
it was postponed to the 10th. The peasants who had come to this Congress knew perfectly well
that they would have a fight to uphold, perhaps even to give their lives. Their neighbors,
their co-villagers, wept when they saw them set out, as if it were a question of men condemned
to death. That alone suffices to show to what degree were conscious these peasants who had
come from all corners of the country to prepare themselves for the defense of the Constituent
Assembly.

The peasants refused; cries of protest were raised.

The sailors listened. They had come to disperse a counter-revolutionary Congress, and these
speeches troubled them. One sailor, not able to stand it any longer, burst into tears.

"Let me speak!" he shouted to the president. "I hear your speeches, peasant comrades, and I
no longer understand anything.... What is going on? We are peasants, and you, too, are peasants.
But we are of this side, and you are of the other.... Why? Who has separated us? For we are
brothers.... But it is as if a barrier had been placed between us." He wept and, seizing his
revolver, he exclaimed, "No, I would rather kill myself!"

It was thus there was manifested the habit of servile obedience, of arbitrary power and violence,
which had been taking root for several centuries; under a thin veneer of revolution one finds
the servile and violent man of yesterday.

In the midst of these exceptional circumstances the peasants gave proof of that obstinacy and
energy in the pursuit of their rights for which they are noted. Thrown out in the middle of
the night, robbed, insulted, they decided, nevertheless, to continue their Congress. "How,
otherwise, can we go home?" said they. "We must come to an understanding as to what is to be done."

The members of the Executive Committee who were still free succeeded in finding new premises
(let it be noted that among others the workmen of the big Oboukhovsky factory offered them
hospitality), and during three days the peasants could assemble secretly by hiding themselves
from the eyes of the Red Guard, and the spies in various quarters of Petrograd, until such
time as the decisions were given on all great questions. A procès-verbal was prepared concerning
all that had taken place on Kirillovskaia Street. A declaration was made protesting against
the acts of the Bolshevik government. This declaration was to be read at the Taurida Palace
when the Soviets were in congress by delegates designated for that purpose. The Bolsheviki,
however, would not permit the delegates to enter the Taurida Palace.

Here are the texts of the declaration and of the procès-verbal:

    At the Third National Congress of Soviets of Peasants' Delegates
    grouped around the principle of the defense of the Constituent
    Assembly, this declaration was sent to the Congress of Workmen's,
    Soldiers' and Peasants' Delegates called together by the
    Bolshevist government at the Taurida Palace:

    At the Second National Peasants' Congress the 359 delegates who
    had come together for the defense of the Constituent Assembly
    continued the work of the Congress and elected a provisional
    Executive Committee, independently of the 354 delegates who had
    opposed the power of the Constituent Assembly and adhered to the
    Bolsheviki.

    We, peasant delegates, having come to Petrograd, more than 300 in
    number, to participate in a Congress called by the Provisional
    Executive Committee, which is that of those of the Soviets which
    acknowledge the principle of the defense of the Constituent
    Assembly, declare to our electors, to the millions of the peasant
    population, and to the whole country, that the actual government
    which is called "The Government of the Peasants and Workmen" has
    established in their integrity the violence, the arbitrariness,
    and all the horrors of the autocratic régime which was overthrown
    by the great Revolution of February. All the liberties attained by
    that Revolution and won by innumerable sacrifices during several
    generations are scouted and trodden under foot. Liberty of opinion
    does not exist; men who under the government of the Czar had paid
    by years of prison and exile for their devotedness to the
    revolutionary cause are now again thrown into the dungeons of
    fortresses without any accusation whatever, of anything of which
    they might be guilty, being made to them. Again spies and
    informers are in action. Again capital punishment is
    re-established in its most horrible forms; shooting on the streets
    and assassinations without judgment or examination. Peaceful
    processions, on their way to salute the Constituent Assembly, are
    greeted by a fusillade of shots upon the orders of the autocrats
    of Smolny. The liberty of the press does not exist; the papers
    which displease the Bolsheviki are suppressed, their printing
    plants and offices looted, their editors arrested.

    The organizations which, during the preceding months, were
    established with great difficulty--zemstvos, municipalities,
    agricultural and food committees--are foolishly destroyed in an
    excess of savage fanaticism.

    The Bolsheviki even try to kill the supreme representation, the
    only one legitimately established, of the popular will--the
    Constituent Assembly.

    To justify this violence and this tyranny they try to allege the
    well-being of the people, but we, peasant workers, we see well
    that their policy will only tighten the cord around the workers'
    necks, while the possibility of a democratic peace becomes more
    remote every day; matters have come to the point where the
    Bolsheviki proclaim a further mobilization--of salaried
    volunteers, it is true--to renew the hostilities. They strive to
    represent the war with Ukraine and with the Cossacks under the
    aspect of a war of classes; it is not, however, the bourgeoisie,
    but the representatives of the working classes who are killed on
    one side and on the other. They promised the Socialist régime, and
    they have only destroyed the production of the factories so as to
    leave the population without product and throw the workers into an
    army of unemployed; the horrible specter of famine occupies the
    void left by the broken organizations of food-supply; millions of
    the money of the people are squandered in maintaining a Red
    Guard--or sent to Germany to keep up the agitation there, while
    the wives and the widows of our soldiers no longer receive an
    allowance, there being no money in the Treasury, and are obliged
    to live on charity.

    The Russian country is threatened with ruin. Death knocks at the
    doors of the hovels of the workmen.

    By what forces have the Bolsheviki thus killed our country? Twelve
    days before the organization of the autonomous administration was
    achieved and the elections to the Constituent Assembly begun, at
    the time when there had been organized all the autonomous
    administrations of volosts, districts, governments, and cities,
    chosen by equal, direct, and secret universal suffrage, thus
    assuring the realization of the will of the people and justifying
    the confidence of the population--even then they seized the power
    and established a régime which subjects all the institutions of
    the country to the unlicensed power of the Commissaries of the
    People. And these Commissaries rely upon the Soviets, which were
    chosen at elections that were carried out according to rank, with
    open balloting and inequality of vote, for therein the peasants
    count only as many representatives as the workmen of the cities,
    although in Russia their number is sixty times greater.

    Absence of control permits every abuse of power; absence of secret
    voting permits that into these Soviets at these suspicious
    elections some enter who are attracted by the political rôle of
    these institutions; the defeat of inequality in the suffrage
    restrains the expression of the will of the peasants, and,
    accordingly, these cannot have confidence in this system of
    government. The tyranny that presided at these elections was such
    that the Bolsheviki themselves pay no attention to the results,
    and declare that the Soviets that are opposed to themselves are
    bourgeoisie and capitalists. We, representing the peasant workers,
    must declare in the name of our constituents: if anything can save
    Russia, it can only be the re-establishment of the organs of
    local autonomous administration, chosen by equal, direct, and
    secret universal suffrage and the resumption, without delay, of
    the work of the Constituent Assembly.

    The Constituent Assembly alone can express the exact will of the
    working-people, for the system of election which governs it
    includes every measure of precaution against violence, corruption,
    and other abuses, and assures the election of deputies chosen by
    the majority; now, in the country, the majority is composed of the
    working class.

    Millions of peasants delegated us to defend the Constituante, but
    this was dissolved as soon as it began to work for the good of the
    people. The work of the Constituante was interrupted at the time
    that it was discussing the law concerning land, when a new
    agricultural régime was being elaborated for the country. For this
    reason, and for this alone, the Constituante adopted only the
    first articles of this law, articles which established the
    definite transfer of all the land to the hands of the workers,
    without any ransom. The other articles of this law, which
    concerned the order of the apportionment of lots, its forms, its
    methods of possession, etc., could not be adopted, although they
    were completely elaborated in the commission and nothing remained
    but to sanction them.

