"General--We come in the name of the Polytechnic school, to express our gratitude on the subject
of the crosses of honor awarded to us: but the recompense appearing to us above our services,
and, moreover, no one of us deeming himself more worthy than his comrades to receive it, we
beg permission to decline accepting them.

"There is a favor, however, we desire to ask of you. One of our comrades, Venneau, perished
on the day of the 27th: We recommend to your kindness his father, who is in the service of
the government, in the collection of the revenue. We recommend, farther, to your kindness,
General, another of our comrades, Charras, dismissed from the schools by General Bourdsoulle
on account of his opinions. We ask that he may be restored to our ranks, in which he did good
service these few days.

"In the name of the Polytechnic school, the two scholars deputed by their comrades,

J. DUPRESNE, FERRI PISANI.

August 7th, 1830."

There is no parade here. It is the simple voice of nature, and goes, at once, to the heart
of every reader. Such is France: radiant with taste and feeling and generosity in every department
of her society: "in war, the mountain storm--in peace, the gale of spring." Long may the sun
of liberty gild with his glories her vine-covered hills, her laughing valleys and her splendid
cities.

With no pretence of right, and no wish to interfere with the political institutions of other
countries, but, on the contrary, holding it to be the right of all to pursue their own happiness,
in their own way, and under the form of government which they deem most conducive to that end--yet
believing, as we do, that civil and religious freedom are essential to the happiness of man,
and to the development of the high capacities, mental and moral, with which his Creator has
endowed him, it is natural for us to rejoice when we see any nation, and more especially one
so endeared to us as France, coming, of her own accord, into the fold of free governments.
If there be any people who believe that their peace and order and happiness require the curb
of a despotic government, be it so: their believing it, is proof enough to us that it is so,
with regard to them: And however much we may regret, it is not for us to disturb their repose.
Free government is good only for those who understand its value and are prepared for its enjoyment.
It cannot be forced, with advantage, upon any people who are not yet ripe for its reception.
Nations yet in darkness require, like children, to be disciplined and instructed before they
can act with advantage for themselves. Their best instruction from abroad, is the example of
other nations; their only proper teachers at home, are their own enlightened patriots; and
the wisest process, the gradual diffusion of light among them. That a movement may be premature
and end only in abortion and misery, the former example of France has instructed them. That
it may be mature, and the deliverance easy, quick and safe, she has now given them a happy
and beautiful illustration. It is only by such a revolution as this that the cause of liberty
can present an attraction to the world. It is only in such a revolution that the humane and
benevolent can take delight.

