It had been a strange and beautiful day to him, begun in anger, but the sun was not to go down
upon his wrath; for his choleric intention had almost vanished on his homeward way, and the
first words Smith had spoken had lifted the veil of young Fisbee's duplicity, had shown him
with what fine intelligence and supreme delicacy and sympathy young Fisbee had worked for him,
had understood him, and had made him. If the open assault on McCune had been pressed, and the
damnatory evidence published in Harkless's own paper, while Harkless himself was a candidate
and rival, John would have felt dishonored. The McCune papers could have been used for Halloway's
benefit, but not for his own; he would not ride to success on another man's ruin; and young
Fisbee had understood and had saved him. It was a point of honor that many would have held
finicky and inconsistent, but one which young Fisbee had comprehended was vital to Harkless.

And this was the man he had discharged like a dishonest servant; the man who had thrown what
was (in Carlow's eyes) riches into his lap; the man who had made his paper, and who had made
him, and saved him. Harkless wanted to see young Fisbee as he longed to see only one other
person in the world. Two singular things had happened that day which made his craving to see
Helen almost unbearable--just to rest his eyes upon her for a little while, he could ask no
more. And as they passed along that well-remembered road, every tree, every leaf by the wayside,
it seemed, spoke to him and called upon the dear memory of his two walks with her--into town
and out of town, on show-day. He wondered if his heart was to project a wraith of her before
him whenever he was deeply moved, for the rest of his life. For twice to-day he had seen her
whom he knew to be so far away. She had gone back to her friends in the north, Tom had said.
Twice that afternoon he had been momentarily, but vividly, conscious of her as a living presence.
As he descended from the car at the station, his eyes, wandering out over the tumultuous crowd,
had caught and held a picture for a second--a graceful arm upraised, and a gloved hand pressed
against a blushing cheek under a hat such as is not worn in Carlow; a little figure poised
apparently in air, full-length above the crowd about her; so, for the merest flick of time
he had seen her, and then, to his straining eyes, it was as though she were not. She had vanished.
And again, as his carriage reached the Square, a feeling had come to him that she was near
him; that she was looking at him; that he should see her when the carriage turned; and in the
same instant, above the singing of a multitude, he heard her voice as if there had been no
other and once more his dazzled eyes beheld her for a second; she was singing, and as she sang
she leaned toward him from on high with the most ineffable look of tenderness and pride and
affection he had ever seen on a woman's face; such a look, he thought, as she would wear if
she came to love some archangel (her love should be no less) with all of her heart and soul
and strength. And so he knew he had seen a vision. But it was a cruel one to visit a man who
loved her. He had summoned his philosophy and his courage in his interview with himself on
the way to Carlow, and they had answered; but nothing could answer if his eyes were to play
him tricks and bring her visibly before him, and with such an expression as he had seen upon
her face. His arms fell limply to his sides, and there he remained, gloomily devoted to the
same position.

Feuerbach changed colors in outrage, and he grabbed the Caspar by
his hair. He turned his head, but the Caspar kept his eyes shut.

"What's this, young man?" the president asked sternly.

This got the Caspar to open his eyes and explain.

"I've read it,"
he said. The President pursed his lips and furrowed his brow. A long
silence followed.

"Sun in your eyes?" asked Keating, lifting his hat, so as to shield the other's face.

"Yes."

When he looked again, both figures were gone. He made up his mind that he would think of the
only other person who could absorb his attention, at least for a time; very soon he would stand
face to face with the six feet of brawn and intelligence and manhood that was young Fisbee.

"You are sure he is there?" he asked Tom Martin.

"Yes," answered Martin, with no need to inquire whom the editor meant. "I reckon," he continued,
solemnly, peering at the other from under his rusty hat-brim, "I reckon when you see him, maybe
you'll want to put a kind of codicil to that deed to the 'Herald.'"

"How's that, Martin?"

"Why, I guess maybe you'll--well, wait till you see him."

"I don't want to wait much longer, when I remember what I owe him and how I have used him,
and that I have been here nearly three hours without seeing him."

As they neared the brick house Harkless made out, through the trees, a retreative flutter of
skirts on the porch, and the thought crossed his mind that Minnie had flown indoors to give
some final directions toward the preparation of the banquet; but when the barouche halted at
the gate, he was surprised to see her waving to him from the steps, while Tom Meredith and
Mr. Bence and Mr. Boswell formed a little court around her. Lige Willetts rode up on horse
back at the same moment, and the judge was waiting in front of the gate. Harkless stepped out
of the barouche and took his hand.

"I was told young Fisbee was here."

"Young Fisbee is here," said the judge.

"Where, please, Briscoe?"

"Want to see him right off?"

"I do, very much."

"You'll withdraw his discharge, I expect, now?"

"Ah!" exclaimed the other. "I want to make him a present of the 'Herald,' if he'll take it."
He fumed to Meredith, who had come to the gate. "Tom, where is he?"

Meredith put his hand on his friend's shoulder, and answered: "I don't know. God bless you,
old fellow!"

"The truth is," said the judge, as they entered the gate, "that when you drove up, young Fisbee
ran into the house. Minnie--" He turned, but his daughter had disappeared; however, she came
to the door, a moment later, and shook her head mysteriously at her father.

"Not in the house," she said.

Mr. Fisbee came around the corner of the porch and went toward Harkless. More
and more of them had, yet Rolfers again felt as lonely as he had
always been.

Only today was there a spark ignited in him, it created a explosive, shining connection between him
and another human being. "Go into the garden."

But when Harkless's step crunched the garden path there was no one there. Asters were blooming
in beds between the green rose-bushes, and their many-fingered hands were flung open in wide
surprise that he should expect to find young Fisbee there. It was just before sunset. Birds
were gossiping in the sycamores on the bank. At the foot of the garden, near the creek, there
were some tall hydrangea bushes, flower-laden, and, beyond them, one broad shaft of the sun
smote the creek bends for a mile in that flat land, and crossed the garden like a bright, taut-drawn
veil. Harkless passed the bushes and stepped out into this gold brilliance. Then he uttered
a cry and stopped.

Helen was standing beside the hydrangeas, with both hands against her cheeks and her eyes fixed
on the ground. She had run away as far as she could run; there were high fences extending down
to the creek on each side, and the water was beyond.

"You!" he said. "You--you!"

She did not lift her eyes, but began to move away from him with little backward steps. When
she reached the bench on the bank, she spoke with a quick intake of breath and in a voice he
scarcely heard. It was the merest whisper, and her words came so slowly that sometimes minutes
separated them.

"Can you--will you keep me--on the 'Herald'?"

"Keep you----"

"Will you--let me--help?"

He came near her. "I don't understand. Is it you--you--who are here again?"

"Have you--forgiven me? You know now why I wouldn't--resign? You forgive my--that telegram?"

"What telegram?"

"That one that came to you--this morning."

"Your telegram?"

"Yes."

"Did you send me one?"

"Yes."

"It did not come to me."

"Yes--it did."

"But there--What was it about?"

"It was signed," she said, "it was signed--" She paused and turned half way, not lifting the
downcast lashes; her hand, laid upon the arm of the bench, was shaking; she put it behind her.
Then her eyes were lifted a little, and, though they did not meet his, he saw them, and a strange,
frightened glory leaped in his heart. Her voice fell still lower and two heavy tears rolled
down her cheeks. "It was signed," she whispered, "it was signed--'H. Fisbee.'"

He began to tremble from head to foot. There was a long silence. She had turned quite away
from him. When he spoke, his voice was as low as hers, and he spoke as slowly as she had.

"You mean--then--it was--you?"

"Yes."

"You!"

"Yes."

"And you have been here all the time?"

"All--all except the week you were--hurt, and that--that one evening."

The bright veil which wrapped them was drawn away, and they stood in the silent, gathering dusk.

He tried to loosen his neck-band; it seemed to be choking him. "I--I can't--I don't comprehend
it. I am trying to realize what it----"

"It means nothing," she answered.

"There was an editorial, yesterday," he said, "an editorial that I thought was about Rodney
McCune. Did you write it?"

"Yes."

"It was about--me--wasn't it?"

"Yes."

"It said--it said--that I had won the love of every person in Carlow County."

Suddenly she found her voice. "Do not misunderstand me," she said rapidly. "I have done the
little that I have done out of gratitude." She faced him now, but without meeting his eyes.
"I told you, remember, that you would understand some day what I meant by that, and the day
has come. I owed you more gratitude than a woman ever owed a man before, I think, and I would
have died to pay a part of it. When he was alone with the boy, he walked helplessly for a while back and forth. Finally
he began: "I was just in your room, Hauser. On this occasion, I discovered that, to say the
list, I am very satisfied with the reservations.

"What gratitude did you owe me?"

"What gratitude? For what you did for my father."

"I have only seen your father once in my life--at your table at the dance supper, that night."

"Listen. My father is a gentle old man with white hair and kind eyes. You saw my uncle, that
night; he has been as good to me as a father, since I was seven years old, and he gave me his
name by law and I lived with him. My father came to see me once a year; I never came to see
him. He always told me everything was well with him; that his life was happy. Once he lost
the little he had left to him in the world, his only way of making his living. He had no friends;
he was hungry and desperate, and he wandered. I was dancing and going about wearing jewels--only--I
did not know. All the time the brave heart wrote me happy letters. I should have known, for
there was one who did, and who saved him. When at last I came to see my father, he told me.
He had written of his idol before; but it was not till I came that he told it all to me. Do
you know what I felt? While his daughter was dancing cotillions, a stranger had taken his hand--and--"
A sob rose in her throat and checked her utterance for a moment; but she threw up her head
and met his eyes proudly. "Gratitude, Mr. Harkless!" she cried. "I am James Fisbee's daughter."

