The best analogies are in the known (but changing) classifications of the natural sciences,
and in them the problems are so different that they can serve only to illustrate general principles.
The broad principles of classification are well understood. The authorities are the logicians
from the ancient Aristotle to the modern Bentham, Mill, and Jevons. The effort of the Classification
Division has been to adapt and apply these well-known principles to the enormously diversified
useful arts, particularly as disclosed in patents and applications for patents.

DEFINITION OF SCIENTIFIC CLASSIFICATION.

It may be well to insert here an authoritative definition: "A scientific classification is
a series of divisions so arranged as best to facilitate the complete and separate study of
the several groups which are the result of the divisions as well as of the entire subject under
investigation." (Fowler, Inductive Logic.)

Investigation and study of any subject will be facilitated if the facts or materials pertinent
to that subject be so marshaled and arranged that those most pertinent to it may appear to
the mind in some form of juxtaposition. It is the purpose of the Patent Office classification
to divide and arrange the body and multitudinous units of the useful arts so that, having the
question of novelty of any defined means to answer, one may with reasonable assurance approach
that portion of the rank of arts in which it will be found if it is not new, and in propinquity
to which will also be found those means that bear the closest resemblances to that sought for,
the resemblances of other units growing less in proportion to their distance therefrom.

Success in the fundamental aim of facilitating adequate search should evidently at the same
time reduce proportionately the danger that interfering applications will be overlooked and
also effect a distribution of labor favorable to the acquisition of special skill.

(B) PRINCIPLES OF THE NEW CLASSIFICATION OF THE PATENT OFFICE.

THE ELEMENTS OF A PATENT OFFICE CLASSIFICATION.

A classification will be useful in proportion (1) to the pertinence to the subject under investigation
of the facts selected to be grouped together, or, in other words, in proportion to the appropriateness
of the "basis of classification" to the subject in hand; (2) to the convenience, stability,
and uniformity of the arrangement of the subdivisions whereby the investigator may proceed
with reasonable assurance to that portion of the rank of groups within which he will find cognate
material; (3) to the accuracy and perspicuity of the definitions of the several divisions and
subdivisions; (4) to the completeness and reliability of the cross-referencing and cross-notations;
(5) to the uniformity, feasibility, and certainty of the rules by which the accessions of patents
disclosing one or several inventions may be diagnosed and distributed to the appropriate divisions
of the classification in accordance with the basis adopted.

Corresponding to the foregoing analysis the theory of Patent Office classification may be treated
in five parts: (1) The principles on which the arts shall be divided (basis of classification);
(2) subdivision and mechanical arrangement of groups; (3) definition; (4) cross-referencing
and search-notes; (5) the choice of features by which a patent shall be assigned in the classification
(diagnosis).

BASIS OF CLASSIFICATION.

The first and most vital factor in any system of classification is the basis of division, that
is, the kind of characteristics common to any number of objects selected to characterize groups,
whereby the individuals of any group will resemble each other for the purpose in view more
closely than any individual in any group will resemble any individual in any other group. (J.
S. Mill, System of Logic.)

It is clear that a number of objects may be classified on several different bases. For example,
a number of books could be divided into groups (1) according to the subject of their contents;
(2) according to the language in which the books are written; (3) according to the size of
page; (4) according to the binding material; or (5) according to the color of the binding.
Each of these may be useful classifications for some purpose. For the student of literature
none is of value except the first; for the connoisseur in bindings, only the last three. A
classification of animals including classes of land animals and water animals would hardly
suit a student of zoology, as it would associate with the shad and perch such differently organized
creatures as the porpoise, whale, and seal. Yet such a classification might prove very suitable
for a student of fisheries.

Art as a basis.[1]--So in seeking a basis for a patent office classification the purposes of
the classification should be the guide. Allegations of ulterior uses[2] (such as may be made
merely because the inventor thought of applying his invention to those uses only, or in an
effort to get the application examined in a certain division) and other superficial bases should
be avoided. That basis will best suit the purpose which effects such an arrangement as will
exhibit in suitable groups the "state of the prior art," by which is here meant not necessarily
all the instruments of a trade or industry, or all the articles sold by a shopkeeper, as a
stationer, but those means that achieve similar results by the application of similar natural
laws[3] to similar substances.

As all inventions are made with the ultimate object of satisfying some human desire, the utility
of an invention appears to be a natural basis of classification. It is apparent, however, that
most inventions may contribute to numerous utilities besides the ultimate one. Many processes
and instruments intervene between the seed planter and the wheaten rolls upon the breakfast
table. The plow may be viewed as an agricultural instrument or as an instrument of civil engineering,
according as it is used for preparing the field for planting or rounding a road. A radiating
coil of pipe may be thought of as a condenser of steam or of alcoholic vapors, according as
it is applied to one material or another; as a cooler or a heater, according to the temperature
of a fluid circulated through it. A hammer may drive nails, forge iron, crack stone or nuts.
Underlying all of these ulterior utilities, there is a fundamental one to which the normal
mind will reach in its natural processes and there rest. The plow loosens or turns over the
surface of earth; the coil effects an exchange of heat between its interior and exterior; the
hammer strikes a blow. A classification of plows in agriculture, road building, or excavating,
according to stated ultimate use; of a radiator coil as a steam condenser, still, jacket-water
cooler, refrigerator, or house heater; of the hammer as a forging tool, a nail driver, or a
nut cracker, appears to separate things that are essentially alike. But classifying a plow
on its necessary function of plowing, a radiator on its necessary function of exchanging heat,
a hammer on its necessary function of striking a blow, evidently results in getting very similar
things together. Assuming for the moment that utility is a reasonable basis of division of
the useful arts, it is deemed more logical to adopt as a basis some utility that must be effected
by the means under consideration when put to its normal use rather than some utility that may
be effected under some conditions. Two of the five predictables of ancient logic are property[4]
and accident.[5] The capacity of the hammer to strike a blow, the capacity of the radiator
coil to exchange heat, are in the nature of properties. The capacity of the hammer to crack
nuts, of the coil to condense steam, are in the nature of accidents--something that follows
from the impact and the heat exchange because of the particular accidental conditions of operation.
To select an accident as a basis of classification is contrary to the laws of thought.

It may be said then that the Patent Office classification is based upon "art" in the strict
sense in which the word may be said to be used in section 4886, Revised Statutes, but not necessarily
in the looser sense of industries and trades. A proper maintenance of the distinction between
the word "arts" of the statute and the phrase "industrial arts" used in the sense of industries
and trades is essential to an effective classification for the purposes of a patent office
search. Similar instruments have been patented in three different classes, because of the statements
that one was designed for cooling water, another for heating water, another for sterilizing
milk; in four different classes, because of the statements that one apparatus was to separate
solids from the gases discharged from a metallurgical furnace, another to separate carbon from
the combustion gases of a steam-boiler furnace, another to remove dust and tar from combustible
gas, and another to saturate water with carbon dioxid. Owing to the continuance of a classification
based largely on remote use, many applications come into the office setting forth inventions
of very general application which nevertheless have to be classified more or less arbitrarily
in one of several arts in which they may be used but to which they are not limited.

Function or effect as a basis.[6]--Means of the useful arts are related in different degrees.
Resemblances selected as bonds for a number of inventions may be more or less close. It is
axiomatic that close resemblances should be preferred over looser ones for classification purposes.
Processes and instruments for performing general operations, such as moving, cutting, molding,
heating, treating liquids with gases, assembling, etc., are more closely bonded than those
for effecting the diverse separate successive operations directed toward complex special results,
such as making shoes, buttons, nails, etc. Means of the former sort perform an essentially
unitary act--the application of a single force, the taking advantage of a single property of
matter. Those of the latter sort require the application of several different acts employing
frequently a plurality of forces or taking advantage of several properties of matter. In the
former case, classification can be based on what has been called function, in the latter it
cannot be based on function but can be based on what has been called effect (or product).

Function is closely related to cause. It is an axiom of logic that cause is preferable to effect
as a basis of those classifications designed for scientific research. Hence the functional
basis is preferred in all cases in which it can be applied. A condenser for the fumes of zinc
is much more like a condenser for the fumes of acid or the vapor of water than it is like the
art of recovering zinc from its ores, and it employs only one principle, to wit, heat interchange.
A water-jacket for cooling the walls of a gas-producer or glass-furnace is much more like a
water-jacket for cooling the walls of a limekiln or steam-boiler furnace than it is like the
art of gas-making or manufacture of glass articles. In accordance with what are thought to
be the correct principles, therefore, the zinc-condenser ought not to be classified as a part
of the art of metallurgy, nor the water-jacket as a part of the art of gas-making, merely because
these instruments have a use in these arts, but should be included, respectively, in classes
based upon the more fundamental utilities effected by them.

Although it is evident that molding a button is more like molding a door-knob than it is like
making buttons by the combined operations of sawing, grinding, turning, and drilling, wherefore
the molding of buttons should be classified in a general plastic art rather than in a special
button-making art, yet the making of buttons by a plurality of different kinds of operations
can be placed only in a class based upon the product, to wit, button-making. Since, therefore,
the combination of many different operations for the production of a specific article can not
be classified on the basis of any single function, it must be classified on the basis of product.
Thus by selecting essential function as a basis when possible, and resulting effect when the
functional basis is not possible, one may approximate to the correct classification described
by Herbert Spencer as follows: "A true classification includes in each class those objects
that have more characteristics in common with one another than any of them have with objects
excluded from the class."[7]

So it is deemed better to classify in accordance with the function or effect it is known a
means must perform or accomplish than in accordance with the object with respect to which an
act or acts are directed or in accordance with some effect which may or may not result.

Structure as a basis.--The phrase "structural classification" is frequently made use of. The
application of the phrase to processes is manifestly absurd. The Patent Office never had a
structural classification except in a limited sense. How could a machine, for example, be classified
on structure, leaving out of consideration its function and the effect of its normal operation?
In the refinements of subdivision however, it becomes frequently desirable to form minor subdivisions
on structural differences. And it may also be that instruments will be presented for classification
that are of such general utility as to baffle the efforts of the intellect to attain to the
fundamental and necessary function, in which case a structure-defined class may best suit the
needs of classification.

As between a classification based upon structure and one based upon utility, the choice has
been for the latter, without prejudice, however, to instances that may arise in favor of the
former.

The subject of structural classification will be dropped with a quotation from the original
pamphlet "Plan of Classification," etc. (p. 5): "A purely 'structural' classification is almost
impossible on account of the infinite variety of mechanical combinations, and to attempt it
would probably result in utter confusion, for the classes could not be defined, and the classification
would be a mere digest of mechanical elements having no community of function."

DIVISION AND ARRANGEMENT.

Having divided the aggregate of things to be classified into a large number of groups on a
satisfactory basis, a most useful work will have been accomplished and the purpose of a classification
to assemble the things most nearly alike and separate them from other things will have been
partially achieved. Unless these numerous groups are arranged in some definite understandable
relation to each other, or are placed in definite known positions where they can be found,
the mere formation of the groups, on however good a basis, is not a complete classification.
Furthermore, unless the position of each group with respect to those other groups that resemble
it in whole or in part is made known, he who wishes to find other related matter must seek
aimlessly with no assurance that his quest will end until the whole series shall have been
investigated. Each classified group is metaphorically a pigeonhole to contain similar material.
If the pigeonholes are properly labeled, one can ultimately locate those that contain the matter
he is seeking if he knows the name that has been applied to it. If the pigeonholes are arranged
in alphabetical order, for example, he may find all related material, provided he knows the
name of every related group of material, even though very similar things may bear names as
far apart as A and Z. But if all things were so placed that, adjacent and in certain fixed
relation to each pigeonhole, other related matter could be found, the resemblances lessening
in proportion to the separation, and if the entire area of pigeonholes were divided, and certain
areas assigned to certain kinds of things defined in general terms, guessing the location of
and desultory search for things that may have different names, but yet be very much alike,
would be lessened and all cognate material be bunched. A second vital factor of a system of
classification, therefore, is the arrangement of the groups.

Infinitude of possible combinations.--There are now over 1,125,000 United States patents, each
presumptively covering a creation of the useful arts that is different from every other. Most
of these patents also disclose a plurality of elements or acts. Each of these patented means
is potentially an element of a more complex combination that may be patented. When one considers
merely the number of forms of energy, the number of known substances and known mechanical elements,
and attempts to figure possible combinations and permutations, it becomes apparent that the
size of the numbers resulting is incomprehensible. Consider the possibilities of combination
also of the enormously varied disclosures of patents. Calculations of the possible combinations
and permutations of a small number of objects are familiar. Different combinations of the letters
of the alphabet are sufficient to record the sum of human knowledge in many languages. With
substantially two octaves of the diatonic scale the world's melodies have been sounded, nor
do any doubt that our successors will thrill to airs that we have never heard. "Thirty metals
may be combined into 435 binary alloys, 4,060 ternary alloys, 27,405 quaternary alloys" (Jevons).
This does not take into consideration differences in proportion that figure so largely in results
in the arts of substance-making. The total number of possible alloys of the known metals is
incomprehensible. A moment's thought respecting the numbers of the means of the useful arts
will alleviate any fears that the possibilities of invention are near the limit and will give
food for further thought to all concerned with this attempt to classify the useful arts to
the point of refinement necessary to enable this office to pass judgment with reasonable speed
and accuracy upon the approximately 75,000 applications filed each year.

Division and arrangement in the natural sciences.--Some of the natural sciences are said to
be in what is known as the classificatory stage of development. In some sciences the subject
of classification has been predominant and these furnish excellent examples of scientific classification.

