And when the time came, the princess went out, and the bully with her down to the shore, and
when they got there what did he do, but to tie the princess to a tree, the way the serpent
would be able to swallow her easy with no delay, and he himself went and hid up in an ivy-tree.
And Jack knew what was going on, for the princess had told him about it, and had asked would
he help her, but he said he would not. But he came out now, and he put on the suit he had taken
from the first giant, and he came by the place the princess was, but she didn't know him. "Is
that right for a princess to be tied to a tree?" said Jack. "It is not, indeed," said she,
and she told him what had happened, and how the serpent was coming to take her. "If you will
let me sleep for awhile with my head in your lap," said Jack, "you could wake me when it is
coming." So he did that, and she awakened him when she saw the serpent coming, and Jack got
up and fought with it, and drove it back into the sea. And then he cut the rope that fastened
her, and he went away. The bully came down then out of the tree, and he brought the princess
to where the king was, and he said, "I got a friend of mine to come and fight the serpent to-day,
where I was a little timorous after being so long shut up underground, but I'll do the fighting
myself to-morrow." And without looking up the
table, began to rush furiously rods before him.

- Fermin - he suddenly looked at his friend with red eyes .-- I'm
crazy ... crazy lost.

- I can see - Montenegro replied coolly, while
eating.

- Fermin paece a demon blows my ear the most terrible things.

If your father was my godfather, and if you, you were not a few days
ago that would kill your sister, Mary LU.

I swear by it by my best mate, the only inheritance from my father.

He opened with a crash of a razor handle springs old, fiercely kissing
smooth sheet, colored drawings by rust-red.

- Man, it will be something
less - Montenegro said staring at his friend.

He had dropped his fork, and a cloud passed over his face red.

But this hostile gesture lasted only an instant.

- Bah! - He said - yes you are crazy, and more so is the case then
you.

Rafael began to mourn. Finally, his eyes could give way to tears that rushed to them, and sliding
down her cheeks fell in wine.

- Is true, Fermin, I'm crazy. Loose bravado y. .. na: I am a weakling. See how I be, a lad
beat me. What I have to kill a ladybug? I wish I had black guts to
that.

Then I'd kill you, and toos at rest.

The distant strumming of the guitar and vocals that cut its rate, cheering the heels of a dancer,
seemed to accompany the fall of the tall boy's tears.

- But, let's
see - Fermin said impatiently .-- What is that?

Speech, and ceases to mourn, you look like a blessed in the Holy Burial Procession. What's wrong
with Ladybug? ...

- Who does not love me! - Cried the desperate accent overseer .-- That you do not listen to
me! That Quie have broken and not me! ...

Montenegro smiled. And that was it? Contention of boyfriends; whim of girl who gets angry to
encourage the monotony of a long engagement! Happen and bad wind.

He knew what hearsay. He expressed his skepticism with young hands, the English, as he said, enemy
of the perfect love affair that lasted years and were one of the traditions of the land. He
had known he was not dating anyone at Jerez. He was content to take what they could, good, from
time to time to satisfy their desires.

- That it always appreciates the body - continued .-- But so fine
relations with sighs, penalties and celillos, never!

I need time for other things.

Y Fermín, mocking tone, trying to console his friend. That would slump.

Caprichos of women who get angry sulking and pretending to want them more! The day least expected,
would see Maria de la Luz go to him, saying that it was all a joke to test their love, and
she loved him more than before.

But the strapping young man shook his head negatively.

- No, not like me. This is over and I'm going to die.

Montenegro was telling how his love had ended. She called one night to talk on the fence, and with
a voice and gesture, whose memory still shuddered at the poor lad, he announced it was all over
between them.

Christ and what news to receive, out of the blue!

Rafael clung to the bars to avoid falling.

Then there was everything from pleas, threats, tears; but she remained
inflexible, with a smile that was afraid and refused to continue affairs.

Ah, women! ...

- Yes, my son - said Fermin .-- A drag. Although this is my sister, I do exception. So I took
them what they need and shun the deal ... But what excuse did you
Mariquita? ...

- That he does not like me, who has suddenly apagao
that I had. Do not sit for me not a crumb of affection and love pretending
not to lie ... As if one could want off suddenly, like a light! ...

Rafael
remembered the end of his last interview. Tired of begging, clinging
to mourn the gate, like a child kneeling, the desperation she had
burst into threats. Fermín forgive him! but at that moment he was
capable of murder. The girl, tired of his pleas, afraid of their curses,
finally slamming the window. Y until now!

Twice a day had gone Marchamalo
with the excuse to see Mr. Fermín, but Mary Light hiding, just guessed
his horse galloping down the road.

Montenegro hear him thinking.

-
Will you have another boyfriend? - Said .-- Did he love someone?

-
No, it does not - Rafael was quick to respond as if it's any consolation
conviction .-- The same thought at first and I was already busted
in Jerez and then in prison. When I remove my Mariquilla for Lu, killed
him. But alas! that no one takes it from me, that it is what goes
... He spends his days watching from afar Marchamalo tower. Then they began
to fight, and Jack was getting the worst of it. "Help, hound!" he cried out, then "Squeeze
hair," cried out the old woman, and the rib of hair that was about the hound's neck squeezed
him to death. "Help, horse!" Jack called out, then, "Squeeze hair," called out the old woman,
and the rib of hair that was about the horse's neck began to tighten and squeeze him to death.
Then the old woman made an end of Jack and threw him outside the door.

To go back now to Bill. He was out in the garden one day, and he took a look at the well, and
what did he see but the water at the top was blood, and what was underneath was honey. So he
went into the house again, and he said to his mother, "I will never eat a second meal at the
same table, or sleep a second night in the same bed, till I know what is happening to Jack."

So he took the other horse and hound then, and set off, over the hills where cock never crows
and horn never sounds, and the devil never blows his bugle. Margarita is already all of Faust, Faust wants to be of God, and expresses its condolences
to see little religious. Faust quiets more fondly than reasons, and finally enters her appointment. Here
are details on which we dare not enforce decisions.

No doubt it is admirable the creative force of Goethe, so real that we are introduced to Margarita
and the surrounding art by such candor, which, notwithstanding all its faults, continues to
seem pure and innocent, as if he had in it an evil that steals numen responsibility and free
will. Love has been the work of love and not the devil, but in the direction it takes so beautiful passion,
and the devil is involved. No wonder God has made the same permission to try to Fausto, no wonder
he is bound to him. Crimes are needed; matter is born and is increasing the tragic terror, but
despite this, and although much has to be evil in history that such a role does the devil,
could not be excused the narcotics detail, given by his mother Margaret at night to unveil and not
surprised in the arms of his beloved? Although Margaret has the certainty that the drug will
not do evil to his mother, is not horrible yet to be given, and then have your hand in that dream
violent, death shadowing him while she enjoys with the man she loves? In all manner of sins are
the most and least. No missing women who tease their mothers and their husbands, but we are certain
that for every cent, just one that will not discard the use of narcotics. Even the most conscienceless
libertines figure we all means trouble before, and though will not find any, they will stop frightened
before proposing to her friends this way of numbing the mother or husband to have them then
peacefully. Moreover, Margarita, who was alone in the house of Martha, unscrupulous woman and that everything
is paid, what need was to infuse his mother sleep? We say that infanticide is worse, that infanticide
is the most heinous of crimes, but infanticide was necessary to motivate
the torture of Margarita, whose goodness is spared thanks to delirium.

Mad, throws his son into a pond, where they drowned, while his mother gives him the narcotics intentionally,
all over the clearing of his trial, and without the narcotic remove or put the argument or development
of the action. Is a refinement of realism mischief and sinful, and is entirely useless to spare. Dreadful
crime is also the death of Valentin given at close range by Faust, but it was inevitable, is
justified aesthetically. Also, here is forgive any defect in the poet, if he had, in favor of the
tough character and military honor, the brother of Margarita.

The pride and arrogance that inspired her, before his fall, the anger that causes the loss of his
honor, all he utters the words before and during the duel, and its terrible counterclaims to Margarita,
when moribund, all this is real and beautiful at the same time. Goethe in three or four pages,
set up a living, never erased from the mind of anyone.


1902.

BY THE ROADSIDE

Last night I went to a wide place on the Kiltartan road to listen to some Irish songs. While
I waited for the singers an old man sang about that country beauty who died so many years ago,
and spoke of a singer he had known who sang so beautifully that no horse would pass him, but
must turn its head and cock its ears to listen. Presently a score of men and boys and girls,
with shawls over their beads, gathered under the trees to listen. Somebody sang Sa Muirnin
Diles, and then somebody else Jimmy Mo Milestor, mournful songs of separation, of death, and
of exile. And this is what it all boils down to. But with the new look of things, ignored
by the bandits; with a house full of women, and death, with it's entourage of tears and ceremonies
and pathetic accessories, full of herself, what shocks and scandals and desecration and sacrilege would
not produce a battle in the doorway, a dry shot, with it's corresponding blasphemy and wails, and
palpitating bloodied corpses! Finally, if the snowfall didn't fix the conflict, there was enough
to confuse me and accept for sane and resigned the grey woman in her recent worries. In the
meanwhile, and this calmed some of my concerns, there were many hours ahead; we would see what
course it would take and how the suggested storm behaved, and what march did my uncle's aggravation
followed in the morning. I was well stocked with arms and munitions; as was Chisco, he lived
at home to my side; and to Chorcos, I would take care of telling him on time so he could stay
up as a lookout with Mr. Celso's grave condition as a pretext. It couldn't stop occurring to
me that, instead of waiting for the robbers by the doorway, we could set up an ambush in the immediate
rocks near it, and shoot them at close range when the three of them got near the door. But this
plan was less "conclusive" than the other, and it was plainly exposed that we could be face to
face with the assailants, even if justice was on our side, according
to all divine and human laws. Wherever it is spoken by the fireside,
or sung by the roadside, or carved upon the lintel, appreciation of the arts that a single
mind gives unity and design to, spreads quickly when its hour is come. Margarita sings the beautiful song. In his room his head is spinning, following his soul, showing
that he is completely owned and completely overtaken by her friendship and love. He thinks he has
no will but Margarita's. The churches in the Middle Age won all the arts into their service because men
understood that when imagination is impoverished, a principal voice--some would say the only
voice--for the awakening of wise hope and durable faith, and understanding charity, can speak
but in broken words, if it does not fall silent. 

Suddenly, a voice, Tona often leaning out the door to the balcony of the kitchen shouted from
the bottom of the last Carrejo:

- It vienin!

Cubriéronse head then hurried women, took a candle each of the tending the two men and another
dímosle Don Pedro Nolasco who had moved group, and when I was a prominent
part of him, he soon arrived, all walking and almost stunning giant
rolling, the balcony of the kitchen.

INTO THE TWILIGHT

    Out-worn heart, in a time out-worn,
    Come clear of the nets of wrong and right;
    Laugh, heart, again in the gray twilight;
    Sigh, heart, again in the dew of the morn. Behind acolyte,
two packages each with a lantern too, and in between the two, the pastor don Sabas, rain layer
and beneath a large umbrella (gift, of course, made by me father, even when I was young boy,
the church Tablanca) and, finally, behind the priest, still more packages with lights emerging from
the dark side. Then fell to his knees Mari Pepa I was in front of everyone, and said full voice,
while tears filled his eyes:

- In grace you receive the soul that you want.