MYTHS AND LEGENDS
                                   OF
                              OUR OWN LAND

                                   By
                           Charles M. Skinner

                                Vol. 9. If his earnings
in the gentle craft of piracy were frugally husbanded, he has possibly
left some pots of money in holes in the ground between Key West and
Halifax. The belief that large deposits of gold were made at Gardiner's
Island, Dunderberg, Cro' Nest, New York City, Coney Island, Ipswich, the
marshes back of Boston, Cape Cod, Nantucket, Isles of Shoals, Money
Island, Ocean Beach, the Bahamas, the Florida Keys, and elsewhere has
caused reckless expenditure of actual wealth in recovering doubloons and
guineas that disappointed backers of these enterprises are beginning to
look upon--no, not to look upon, but to think about--as visionary. A hope
of getting something for nothing has been the impetus to these
industries, and interest in the subject is now and then revived by
reports of the discovery--usually by a farmer ploughing near the
shore--of an iron kettle with a handful of gold and silver coins in it,
the same having doubtless been buried for purposes of concealment during
the wars of 1776 and 1812.

Gardiner's Island, a famous rendezvous for pirates, is the only place known to have been used
as a bank of deposit, for in 1699 the Earl of Bellomont recovered from it seven hundred and
eighty-three ounces of gold, six hundred and thirty-three ounces of silver, cloth of gold,
silks, satins, and jewels. In the old Gardiner mansion, on this island, was formerly preserved
a costly shawl given to Mrs. Gardiner by Captain Kidd himself. This illustrious Kidd--or Kydd--was
born in New York, began his naval career as a chaser of pirates, became a robber himself, was
captured in Boston, where he was ruffling boldly about the streets, and was hanged in London
in 1701. In sea superstitions the apparition of his ship is sometimes confused with that of
the Flying Dutchman.

At Lion's Rock, near Lyme, Connecticut, a part of his treasure is under guard of a demon that
springs upon intruders unless they recite Scripture while digging for the money.

Charles Island, near Milford, Connecticut, was dug into, one night, by a company from that
town that had learned of Kidd's visit to it--and what could Kidd be doing ashore unless he
was burying money? The lid of an iron chest had been uncovered when the figure of a headless
man came bounding out of the air, and the work was discontinued right then. The figure leaped
into the pit that had been dug, and blue flames poured out of it. When the diggers returned,
their spades and picks were gone and the ground was smooth.

Monhegan Island, off the Maine coast, contains a cave, opening to the sea, where it was whispered
that treasure had been stored in care of spirits. Searchers found within it a heavy chest,
which they were about to lift when one of the party--contrary to orders--spoke. The spell was
broken, for the watchful spirits heard and snatched away the treasure. Some years ago the cave
was enlarged by blasting, in a hope of finding that chest, for an old saying has been handed
down among the people of the island--from whom it came they have forgotten--that was to this
effect: "Dig six feet and you will find iron; dig six more and you will find money."

On Damariscotta Island, near Kennebec, Maine, is a lake of salt water, which, like dozens of
shallow ones in this country, is locally reputed to be bottomless. Yet Kidd was believed to
have sunk some of his valuables there, and to have guarded against the entrance of boats by
means of a chain hung from rock to rock at the narrow entrance, bolts on either side showing
the points of attachment, while ring bolts were thought to have been driven for the purpose
of tying buoys, thus marking the spots where the chests went down. This island, too, has been
held in fear as haunted ground.

Appledore, in the Isles of Shoals, was another such a hiding-place, and Kidd put one of his
crew to death that he might haunt the place and frighten searchers from their quest. For years
no fisherman could be induced to land there after nightfall, for did not an islander once encounter
"Old Bab" on his rounds, with a red ring around his neck, a frock hanging about him, phosphorescence
gleaming from his body, who peered at the intruder with a white and dreadful face, and nearly
scared him to death?

A spot near the Piscataqua River was another hiding-place, and early in this century the ground
was dug over, two of the seekers plying pick and spade, while another stood within the circle
they had drawn about the spot and loudly read the Bible. Presently their implements clicked
on an iron chest, but it slid sideway into the ground as they tried to uncover it, and at last
an interruption occurred that caused them to stop work so long that when they went to look
for it again it had entirely disappeared. This diversion was the appearance of a monster horse
that flew toward them from a distance without a sound, but stopped short at the circle where
the process of banning fiends was still going on, and, after grazing and walking around them
for a time, it dissolved into air.

Kidd's plug is a part of the craggy steep known as Cro' Nest, on the Hudson. It is a projecting
knob, like a bung closing an orifice, which is believed to conceal a cavern where the redoubtable
captain placed a few barrels of his wealth. Though it is two hundred feet up the cliff, inaccessible
either from above or below, and weighs many tons, still, as pirates and devils have always
been friendly, it may be that the corking of the cave was accomplished with supernatural help,
and that if blasts or prayers ever shake the stone from its place a shower of doubloons and
diamonds may come rattling after it.

The shore for several hundred feet around Dighton Rock, Massachusetts, has been examined, for
it was once believed that the inscriptions on it were cut by Kidd to mark the place of burial
for part of his hoard.

The Rock Hill estate, Medford, Massachusetts, was plagued by a spectre that some thought to
be that of a New Hampshire farmer who was robbed and murdered there, but others say it is the
shade of Kidd, for iron treasure chests were found in the cellar that behaved like that on
the Piscataqua River, sinking out of sight whenever they were touched by shovels.

Misery Islands, near Salem, Massachusetts, were dug over, and under spiritual guidance, too,
for other instalments of Mr. Kidd's acquisitions, but without avail.

It takes no less than half a dozen ghosts to guard what is hidden in Money Hill, on Shark River,
New Jersey, so there must be a good deal of it. Some of these guardians are in sailor togs,
some in their mouldy bones, some peaceable, some noisy with threats and screams and groans--a
"rum lot," as an ancient mariner remarked, who lives near their graves and daytime hiding-places.
Many heirlooms are owned by Jerseymen hereabout that were received from Kidd's sailors in exchange
for apple-jack and provisions, and two sailor-looking men are alleged to have taken a strong-box
out of Money Hill some years ago, from which they abstracted two bags of gold. After that event
the hill was dug over with great earnestness, but without other result to the prospectors than
the cultivation of their patience.

Sandy Hook, New Jersey, near "Kidd's tree," and the clay banks of the Atlantic highlands back
of that point, are suspected hiding-places; but the cairn or knoll called Old Woman's Hill,
at the highlands, is not haunted by Kidd's men, as used to be said, but by the spirit of a
discontented squaw. This spirit the Indians themselves drove away with stones.

At Oyster Point, Maryland, lived Paddy Dabney, who recognized Kidd from an old portrait on
meeting him one evening in 1836. He was going home late from the tavern when a light in a pine
thicket caused him to turn from the road. In a clearing among the trees, pervaded by a pale
shine which seemed to emanate from its occupants, a strange company was playing at bowls. A
fierce-looking reprobate who was superintending the game glanced up, and, seeing Paddy's pale
face, gave such a leap in his direction that the Irishman fled with a howl of terror and never
stopped till he reached his door, when, on turning about, he found that the phantom of the
pirate chief had vanished. The others, he conceived, were devils, for many a sea rover had
sold himself to Satan. Captain Teach, or Blackbeard, proved as much to his crew by shutting
himself in the hold of his ship, where he was burning sulphur to destroy rats, and withstanding
suffocation for several hours; while one day a dark man appeared on board who was not one of
the crew at the sailing, and who had gone as mysteriously as he came on the day before the
ship was wrecked. It was known that Kidd had buried his Bible in order to ingratiate the evil one.

A flat rock on the north shore of Liberty Island, in New York harbor, was also thought to mark
the place of this pervasive wealth of the pirates. As late as 1830, Sergeant Gibbs, one of
the garrison at the island, tried to unearth it, with the aid of a fortune-teller and a recruit,
but they had no sooner reached a box about four feet in length than a being with wings, horns,
tail, and a breath, the latter palpable in blue flames, burst from the coffer. Gibbs fell unconscious
into the water and narrowly escaped drowning, while his companions ran away, and the treasure
may still be there for aught we know.

Back in the days before the Revolution, a negro called Mud Sam, who lived in a cabin at the
Battery, New York City, was benighted at about the place where One Hundredth Street now touches
East River while waiting there for the tide to take him up the Sound. He beguiled the time
by a nap, and, on waking, he started to leave his sleeping place under the trees to regain
his boat, when the gleam of a lantern and the sound of voices coming up the bank caused him
to shrink back into the shadow. At first he thought that he might be dreaming, for Hell Gate
was a place of such repute that one might readily have bad dreams there, and the legends of
the spot passed quickly through his mind: the skeletons that lived in the wreck on Hen and
Chickens and looked out at passing ships with blue lights in the eye-sockets of their skulls;
the brown fellow, known as "the pirate's spuke," that used to cruise up and down the wrathful
torrent, and was snuffed out of sight for some hours by old Peter Stuyvesant with a silver
bullet; a black-looking scoundrel with a split lip, who used to brattle about the tavern at
Corlaer's Hook, and who tumbled into East River while trying to lug an iron chest aboard of
a suspicious craft that had stolen in to shore in a fog. This latter bogy was often seen riding
up Hell Gate a-straddle of that very chest, snapping his fingers at the stars and roaring Bacchanalian
odes, just as skipper Onderdonk's boatswain, who had been buried at sea without prayers, chased
the ship for days, sitting on the waves, with his shroud for a sail, and shoving hills of water
after the vessel with the plash of his hands.

These grewsome memories sent a quake through Mud Sam's heart, but when the bushes cracked under
the strangers' tread, he knew that they were of flesh and bone, and, following them for a quarter-mile
into the wood, he saw them dig a hole, plant a strong-box there, and cover it. A threatening
remark from one of the company forced an exclamation from the negro that drew a pistol-shot
upon him, and he took to his heels. Such a fright did he receive that he could not for several
years be persuaded to return, but when that persuasion came in the form of a promise of wealth
from Wolfert Webber, a cabbage-grower of the town, and promises of protection from Dr. Knipperhausen,
who was skilled in incantations, he was not proof against it, and guided the seekers to the spot.

After the doctor had performed the proper ceremonies they fell to work, but no sooner had their
spades touched the lid of an iron-bound chest than a sturdy rogue with a red flannel cap leaped
out of the bushes. They said afterward that he had the face of the brawler who was drowned
at Corlaer's Hook, but, in truth, they hardly looked at him in their flight; nor, when the
place was revisited, could any mark of digging be found, nor any trace of treasure, so that
part of Kidd's wealth may be at this moment snugly stowed in the cellar of a tenement. Webber
had engaged in so many crazy enterprises of this nature that he had neglected cabbage culture,
and had grown so poor that the last disappointment nearly broke his heart. He retired to his
chamber and made his will, but on learning that a new street had been run across his farm and
that it would presently be worth ten times as much for building-lots as it ever had been for
cabbages, he leaped out of bed, dressed himself, and prospered for many a day after.

OTHER BURIED WEALTH

The wealth of the Astors hardly exceeds the treasure that is supposed to be secreted here and
there about the country, and thousands of dollars have been expended in dredging rivers and
shallow seas, and in blasting caves and cellars. Certain promoters of these schemes have enjoyed
salaries as officers in the stock companies organized for their furtherance, and they have
seen the only tangible results from such enterprises.

One summer evening, in the middle of the seventeenth century, a bark dropped anchor at the
mouth of Saugus River, Massachusetts, and four of the crew rowed to the woods that skirt its
banks and made a landing. The vessel had disappeared on the following morning, but in the forge
at the settlement was found a paper stating that if a certain number of shackles and handcuffs
were made and secretly deposited at a specified place in the forest, a sum of money equal to
their value would be found in their stead on the next day. The order was filled and the silver
was found, as promised, but, though a watch was set, nothing further was seen of men or ship
for several months.

The four men did return, however, and lived by themselves amid the woods of Saugus, the gossips
reporting that a beautiful woman had been seen in their company--the mistress of the pirate
chief, for, of course, the mysterious quartette had followed the trade of robbery on the high
seas. Three of these men were captured, taken to England, and hanged, but the fourth-Thomas
Veale--escaped to a cavern in the wood, where, it was reputed, great treasures were concealed,
and there he lived until the earthquake of 1658, when a rock fell from the roof of the cave,
closing the entrance and burying the guilty man in a tomb where, it is presumed, he perished
of thirst and hunger. Dungeon Rock, of Lynn, is the name that the place has borne ever since.

In 1852 Hiram Marble announced that he had been visited by spirits, who not only told him that
the pirates' spoils were still in their olden hiding-place, but pointed out the spot where
the work of excavation should begin. Aided by his son he tunnelled the solid granite for a
distance of one hundred and thirty-five feet, the passage being seven feet high and seven wide.
Whenever he was wearied the "mediums" that he consulted would tell him to make cuttings to
the right or left, and for every fresh discouragement they found fresh work. For thirty years
this task was carried on, both father and son dying without gaining any practical result, other
than the discovery of an ancient scabbard in a rift. The heiress of the house of Marble alone
reaped benefit from their labors, for-resuming on a petty scale the levies of the first dwellers
in the rock--she boldly placarded the entrance to the workings "Ye who enter here leave twenty-five
cents behind."

In several cases the chasms that have been caused by wear of water or convulsions of nature
(their opposite sides being matched) were believed to have been hiding-places, but, in the
old days in New England, it was believed that all such fractures were caused by the earthquake
at the time of the crucifixion--a testimony of the power of God to shake sinners.

The Heart of Greylock is the name given to the crater-like recess, a thousand feet deep, in
the tallest of the Berkshire peaks, but it was formerly best known as Money Hole, and the stream
that courses through it as Money Brook, for a gang of counterfeiters worked in that recess,
and there some spurious coinage may still be concealed. The stream is also known as Spectre
Brook, for late wandering hunters and scouting soldiers, seeing the forgers moving to and fro
about their furnaces, took them for ghosts.

Province Island, in Lake Memphremagog, Vermont, is believed to contain some of the profits
of an extensive smuggling enterprise that was carried on near the lake for several years.

A little company of Spanish adventurers passed along the base of the Green Mountains early
in the last century, expecting to return after having some dealings with the trading stations
on the St. Lawrence; so they deposited a part of their gold on Ludlow Mountain, Vermont, and
another pot of it on Camel's Hump. They agreed that none should return without his companions,
but they were detained in the north and separated, some of them going home to Spain. Late in
life the sole survivor of the company went to Camel's Hump and tried to recall where the treasure
had been hidden, but in vain.

While flying from the people whose declaration of independence had already been written in
the blood of the king's troops at Concord, the royal governor--Wentworth--was embarrassed by
a wife and a treasure-chest. He had left his mansion, at Smith's Pond, New Hampshire, and was
making toward Portsmouth, where he was to enjoy the protection of the British fleet, but the
country was up in arms, time was important, and as his wearied horses could not go on without
a lightening of the burden, he was forced to leave behind either Lady Wentworth or his other
riches. As the lady properly objected to any risk of her own safety, the chest was buried at
an unknown spot in the forest, and for a century and more the whereabouts of the Wentworth
plate and money-bags have been a matter of search and conjecture.

When the Hessian troops marched from Saratoga to Boston, to take ship after Burgoyne's surrender,
they were in wretched condition-war-worn, ragged, and ill fed,--and having much with them in
the form of plate and jewels that had been spared by their conquerors, together with some of
the money sent from England for their hire, they were in constant fear of attack from the farmers,
who, though they had been beaten, continued to regard them with an unfavorable eye. On reaching
Dalton, Massachusetts, the Hessians agreed among themselves to put their valuables into a howitzer,
which they buried in the woods, intending that some of their number should come back at the
close of the war and recover it. An Indian had silently followed them for a long distance,
to gather up any unconsidered trifles that might be left in their bivouacs, and he marked the
route by blazes on the trees; but if he saw the burial of this novel treasury it meant nothing
to him, and the knowledge of the hiding-place was lost. For years the populace kept watch of
all strangers that came to town, and shadowed them if they went to the woods, but without result.
In about the year 1800 the supposed hiding-place was examined closely and excavations were
made, but, as before, nothing rewarded the search.

A tree of unknown age--the Old Elm--stood on Boston Common until within a few years. This veteran,
torn and broken by many a gale and lightning-stroke, was a gallows in the last century, and
Goody Glover had swung from it in witch-times. On tempestuous nights, when the boughs creaked
together, it was said that dark shapes might be seen writhing on the branches and capering
about the sward below in hellish glee. On a gusty autumn evening in 1776 a muffled form presented
itself, unannounced, at the chamber of Mike Wild, and, after that notorious miser had enough
recovered from the fear created by the presence to understand what it said to him, he realized
that it was telling him of something that in life it had buried at the foot of the Old Elm.
After much hesitancy Mike set forth with his ghostly guide, for he would have risked his soul
for money, but on arriving at his destination he was startled to find himself alone. Nothing
daunted, he set down his lantern and began to dig. Though he turned up many a rood of soil
and sounded with his spade for bags and chests of gold, he found nothing. Strange noises overhead--for
the wind was high and the twigs seemed to snicker eerily as they crossed each other-sent thrills
along his back from time to time, and he was about to return, half in anger, half in fear,
when his spirit visitor emerged from behind the tree and stood before him. The mien was threatening,
the nose had reddened and extended, the hair was rumpled, and the brow was scowling. The frown
of the gold monster grew more awful, the stare of his eye in the starlight more unbearable,
and he was crouching and creeping as if for a spring. Mike could endure no more. He fainted,
and awakened in the morning in his own chamber, where, to a neighbor who made an early call,
he told--with embellishments--the story of the encounter; but before he had come to the end
of the narrative the visitor burst into a roar of laughter and confessed that he had personated
the supernatural visitant, having wagered a dozen bottles of wine with the landlord of the
Boar's Head that he could get the better of Mike Wild. For all this the old tree bore, for
many years, an evil reputation.

A Spanish galleon, the Saints Joseph and Helena, making from Havana to Cadiz in 1753 was carried
from her course by adverse winds and tossed against a reef, near New London, Connecticut, receiving
injuries that compelled her to run into that port for repairs. To reach her broken ribs more
easily her freight was put on shore in charge of the collector of the port, but when it was
desired to ship the cargo again, behold! the quarter part of it had disappeared, none could
say how. New London got a bad name from this robbery, and the governor, though besought by
the assembly to make good the shortage, failed to do so, and lost his place at the next election.
It was reputed that some of the treasure was buried on the shore by the robbers. In 1827 a
woman who was understood to have the power of seership published a vision to a couple of young
blades, who had paid for it, to the effect that hidden under one of the grass-grown wharves
was a box of dollars. By the aid of a crystal pebble she received this really valuable information,
but the pebble was not clear enough to reveal the exact place of the box. She could see, however,
that the dollars were packed edgewise. When New London was sound asleep the young men stole
out and by lantern-light began their work. They had dug to water-level when they reached an
iron chest, and they stooped to lift it-but, to their amazement, the iron was too hot to handle!
Now they heard deep growls, and a giant dog peered at them from the pit-mouth; red eyes flashed
at them from the darkness; a wild-goose, with eyes of blazing green, hovered and screamed above
them. Though the witch had promised them safety, nothing appeared to ward off the fantastic
shapes that began to crowd about them. Too terrified to work longer they sprang out and made
away, and when-taking courage from the sunshine--they renewed the search, next day, the iron
chest had vanished.

On Crown Point, Lake Champlain, is the ruin of a fort erected by Lord Amherst above the site
of a French work that had been thrown up in 1731 to guard a now vanished capital of fifteen
hundred people. It was declared that when the French evacuated the region they buried money
and bullion in a well, in the northwest corner of the bastion, ninety feet deep, in the full
expectancy of regaining it, and half a century ago this belief had grown to such proportions
that fifty men undertook to clear the well, pushing their investigations into various parts
of the enclosure and over surrounding fields. They found quantities of lead and iron and no gold.

Follingsby's Pond, in the Adirondacks, was named for a recluse, who, in the early part of this
century, occupied a lonely but strongly guarded cabin there. It was believed afterward that
he was an English army officer, of noble birth, who had left his own country in disgust at
having discovered an attachment between his wife and one of his fellow-officers. He died in
a fever, and while raving in a delirium spoke of a concealed chest. A trapper, who was his
only attendant in his last moments, dug over the ground floor of the hut and found a box containing
a jewelled sword, costly trinkets, and letters that bore out the presumption of Follingsby's
aristocratic origin. What became of these valuables after their exhumation is not known, and
the existence of more has been suspected.

Coney Island is declared to have been used by a band of pirates as the first national sand
bank, and, as these rascals were caught and swung off with short shrift, they do say that the
plunder is still to be had--by the man who finds it. But the hotel-keepers and three-card-monte
men are not waiting for that discovery to grow rich.

In Shandaken Valley, in the Catskills, it was affirmed that a party of British officers buried
money somewhere, when they were beset by the farmers and hunters of that region, and never
got it out of the earth again.

On Tea Island, Lake George, the buried treasures of Lord Abercrombie have remained successfully
hidden until this day.

The oldest house at Fort Neck, Long Island, was known for years as the haunted house, and the
grave of its owner--Captain Jones--was called the pirate's grave, for, in the last century,
Jones was accused of piracy and smuggling, and there have been those who suspected worse. A
hope of finding gold and silver about the premises has been yearly growing fainter. Just before
the death of Jones, which occurred here in an orderly manner, a crow, so big that everybody
believed it to be a demon, flew in at the window and hovered over the bed of the dying man
until he had drawn his last breath, when, with a triumphant cry, it flew through the west end
of the house. The hole that it broke through the masonry could never be stopped, for, no matter
how often it was repaired, the stone and cement fell out again, and the wind came through with
such a chill and such shriekings that the house had to be abandoned.

The owner of an estate on Lloyd's Neck, Long Island, had more wealth than he thought it was
safe or easy to transport when he found the colonies rising against Britain in 1775, and flight
was imperative, for he was known by his neighbors to be a Tory. Massing his plate, coin, and
other movables into three barrels, he caused his three slaves to bury them in pits that they
had dug beneath his house. Then, as they were shovelling back the earth, he shot them dead,
all three, and buried them, one on each barrel. His motive for the crime may have been a fear
that the slaves would aid the Americans in the approaching struggle, or that they might return
and dig up the wealth or reveal the hiding-place to the enemies of the king. Then he made his
escape to Nova Scotia, though he might as well have stayed at home, for the British possessed
themselves of Long Island, and his house became a place of resort for red-coats and loyalists.
It was after the turn of the century when a boat put in, one evening, at Cold Spring Bay, and
next morning the inhabitants found footprints leading to and from a spot where some children
had discovered a knotted rope projecting from the soil. Something had been removed, for the
mould of a large box was visible at the bottom of a pit. Acres of the neighborhood were then
dug over by treasure hunters, who found a box of cob dollars and a number of casks. The contents
of the latter, though rich and old, were not solid, and when diffused through the systems of
several Long Islanders imparted to them a spirituous and patriotic glow--for in thus destroying
the secreted stores of a royalist were they not asserting the triumph of democratic principles?

The clay bluffs at Pottery Beach, Brooklyn, were pierced with artificial caves where lawless
men found shelter in the unsettled first years of the republic. A wreck lay rotting here for
many years, and it was said to be the skeleton of a ship that these fellows had beached by
false beacons. She had costly freight aboard, and on the morning after she went ashore crew
and freight had vanished. It was believed that much of the plunder was buried in the clay near
the water's edge. In the early colonial days, Grand Island, in Niagara River, was the home
of a Frenchman, Clairieux, an exile or refugee who was attended by a negro servant. During
one summer a sloop visited the island frequently, laden on each trip with chests that never
were taken away in the sight of men, and that are now supposed to be buried near the site of
the Frenchman's cabin. Report had it that these boxes were filled with money, but if well or
ill procured none could say, unless it were the Frenchman, and he had no remarks to offer on
the subject. In the fall, after these visits of the sloop, Clairieux disappeared, and when
some hunters landed on the island they found that his cabin had been burned and that a large
skeleton, evidently that of the negro, was chained to the earth in the centre of the place
where the house had stood. The slave had been killed, it was surmised, that his spirit might
watch the hoard and drive away intruders; but the Frenchman met his fate elsewhere, and his
secret, like that of many another miser, perished with him. In 1888, when a northeast gale
had blown back the water of the river, a farmer living on the island discovered, just under
the surface, a stone foundation built in circular form, as if it had once supported a tower.
In the mud within this circle he found a number of French gold and silver coins, one of them
minted in 1537. Close by, other coins of later date were found, and a systematic examination
of the whole channel has been proposed, as it was also said that two French frigates, scuttled
to keep them out of the hands of the English, lie bedded in sand below the island, one of them
with a naval paymaster's chest on board.

On the shore of Oneida Lake is an Indian's grave, where a ball of light is wont to swing and
dance. A farmer named Belknap dreamed several times of a buried treasure at this point, and
he was told, in his vision, that if he would dig there at midnight he could make it his own.
He made the attempt, and his pick struck a crock that gave a chink, as of gold. He should,
at that moment, have turned around three times, as his dream directed, but he was so excited
that he forgot to. A flash of lightning rent the air and stretched him senseless on the grass.
When he recovered the crock was gone, the hole filled in, and ever since then the light has
hovered about the place. Some say that this is but the will-o'-the-wisp: the soul of a bad
fellow who is doomed to wander in desolate regions because, after dying, Peter would not allow
him to enter heaven, and the devil would not let him go into the other place, lest he should
make the little devils unmanageable; but he is allowed to carry a light in his wanderings.

In Indian Gap, near Wernersville, Pennsylvania, the Doane band of Tories and terrorists hid
a chest of gold, the proceeds of many robberies. It is guarded by witches, and, although it
has been seen, no one has been able to lay hands on it. The seekers are always blinded by blue
flame, and frightened away by roaring noises. The Dutch farmers of the vicinity are going to
dig for it, all the same, for it is said that the watch of evil spirits will be given over
at midnight, but they do not know of what date. They will be on hand at the spot revealed to
them through the vision of a "hex layer" (a vision that cost them fifty cents), until the night
arrives when there are no blue flames.

In the southern part of Chester County, Pennsylvania, is money, too, but just where nobody
knows. A lonely, crabbed man, who died there in a poor hut after the Revolution, owned that
he had served the British as a spy, but said that he had spent none of the gold that he had
taken from them. He was either too sorry for his deeds, or too mean to do so. He had put it
in a crock and buried it, and, on his death-bed, where he made his statement, he asked that
it might be exhumed and spent for some good purpose. He was about to tell where it was when
the death-rattle choked his words.

The Isle of the Yellow Sands, in Lake Superior, was supposed by Indians to be made of the dust
of gold, but it was protected by vultures that beat back those who approached, or tore them
to pieces if they insisted on landing. An Indian girl who stole away from her camp to procure
a quantity of this treasure was pursued by her lover, who, frightened at the risk she was about
to run from the vultures, stopped her flight by staving in the side of her canoe, so that she
was compelled to take refuge in his, and he rowed home with her before the birds had come to
the attack.

Old Francois Fontenoy, an Indian trader, buried a brass kettle full of gold at Presque Isle,
near Detroit, that is still in the earth.

On the banks of the Cumberland, in Tennessee, is a height where a searcher for gold was seized
by invisible defenders and hurled to the bottom of the cliff, receiving a mortal hurt.

The Spaniards were said to have entombed three hundred thousand dollars in gold near Natchez.
A man to whom the secret had descended offered to reveal it, but, as he was a prisoner, his
offer was laughed at. Afterward an empty vault was found where he said it would be. Somebody
had accidentally opened it and had removed the treasure.

Caverns have frequently been used as hiding-places for things of more or less value--generally
less. Saltpetre Cave, in Georgia, for instance, was a factory and magazine for saltpetre, gunpowder,
and other military stores during the Civil War. The Northern soldiers wrecked the potash works
and broke away tons of rock, so as to make it dangerous to return. Human bones have been found
here, too, but they are thought to be those of soldiers that entered the cave in pursuit of
an Indian chief who had defied the State in the '40's. He escaped through a hole in the roof,
doubled on his pursuers, fired a pile of dead leaves and wood at the mouth, and suffocated
the white men with the smoke.

Spaniards worked the mines in the Ozark Hills of Missouri two hundred years ago. One of the
mines containing lead and silver, eighteen miles southwest of Galena, was worked by seven men,
who could not agree as to a division of the yield. One by one they were killed in quarrels
until but a single man was left, and he, in turn, was set upon by the resurrected victims and
choked to death by their cold fingers. In 1873 a Vermonter named Johnson went there and said
he would find what it was the Spaniards had been hiding, in spite of the devil and his imps.
He did work there for one day, and was then found dead at the mouth of the old shaft with marks
of bony fingers on his throat.

The seven cities of Cibola, that Coronado and other Spanish adventurers sought in the vast
deserts of the Southwest, were pueblos. A treacherous guide who had hoped to take Coronado
into the waterless plain and lose him, but who first lost his own head, had told him a tale
of the Quivira, a tribe that had much gold. So far from having gold these Indians did not know
the stuff, but the myth that they had hoarded quantities of it has survived to this day and
has caused waste of lives and money. Towns in New Mexico that have lain in ruins since 1670,
when the Apaches butchered their people--towns that were well built and were lorded by solid
old churches and monasteries erected by the Spanish missionaries--these towns have often been
dug over, and the ruinous state of Abo, Curari, and Tabira is due, in part, to their foolish
tunnelling and blasting.

A Spanish bark, one day in 1841, put in for water off the spot where Columbia City, Oregon,
now stands. She had a rough crew on board, and it had been necessary for her officers to watch
the men closely from the time the latter discovered that she was carrying a costly cargo. Hardly
had the anchorchains run out before the sailors fell upon the captain, killed him, seized all
of value that they could gather, and took it to the shore. What happened after is not clear,
but it is probable that in a quarrel, arising over the demands of each man to have most of
the plunder, several of the claimants were slain. Indians were troublesome, likewise, so that
it was thought best to put most of the goods into the ground, and this was done on the tract
known as Hez Copier's farm. Hardly was the task completed before the Indians appeared in large
numbers and set up their tepees, showing that they meant to remain. The mutineers rowed back
to the ship, and, after vainly waiting for several days for a chance to go on shore again,
they sailed away. Two years of wandering, fighting, and carousal ensued before the remnant
of the crew returned to Oregon. The Indians were gone, and an earnest search was made for the
money--but in vain. It was as if the ground had never been disturbed. The man who had supervised
its burial was present until the mutineers went back to their boats, when it was discovered
that he was mysteriously missing.

