Using foliar fertilizers requires a little caution and forethought. Spinach, beet, and chard
leaves seem particularly sensitive to foliars (and even to organic insecticides) and may be
damaged by even half-strength applications. And the cabbage family coats its leaf surfaces
with a waxy, moisture-retentive sealant that makes sprays bead up and run off rather than stick
and be absorbed. Mixing foliar feed solutions with a little spreader/sticker, Safer's Soap,
or, if bugs are also a problem, with a liquid organic insecticide like Red Arrow (a pyrethrum-rotenone
mix), eliminates surface tension and allows the fertilizer to have an effect on brassicas.

Sadly, in terms of nutrient balance, the poorest foliar sprays are organic. That's because
it is nearly impossible to get significant quantities of phosphorus or calcium into solution
using any combination of fish emulsion and seaweed or liquid kelp. The most useful possible
organic foliar is 1/2 to 1 tablespoon each of fish emulsion and liquid seaweed concentrate
per gallon of water.

Foliar spraying and fertigation are two occasions when I am comfortable supplementing my organic
fertilizers with water-soluble chemical fertilizers. The best and most expensive brand is Rapid-Gro.
Less costly concoctions such as Peters 20-20-20 or the other "Grows," don't provide as complete
trace mineral support or use as many sources of nutrition. One thing fertilizer makers find
expensive to accomplish is concocting a mixture of soluble nutrients that also contains calcium,
a vital plant food. If you dissolve calcium nitrate into a solution containing other soluble
plant nutrients, many of them will precipitate out because few calcium compounds are soluble.
Even Rapid-Gro doesn't attempt to supply calcium. Recently I've discovered better-quality hydroponic
nutrient solutions that do use chemicals that provide soluble calcium. These also make excellent
foliar sprays. Brands of hydroponic nutrient solutions seem to appear and vanish rapidly. I've
had great luck with Dyna-Gro 7-9-5. All these chemicals are mixed at about 1 tablespoon per gallon.

Vegetables That:

Like foliars

  Asparagus Carrots Melons Squash
  Beans Cauliflower Peas Tomatoes
  Broccoli Brussels sprouts Cucumbers
  Cabbage Eggplant Radishes
  Kale Rutabagas Potatoes

Don't like foliars

  Beets Leeks Onions Spinach
  Chard Lettuce Peppers

Like fertigation

  Brussels sprouts Kale Savoy cabbage
  Cucumbers Melons Squash
  Eggplant Peppers Tomatoes

Fertigation every two to four weeks is the best technique for maximizing yield while minimizing
water use. I usually make my first fertigation late in June and continue periodically through
early September. I use six or seven plastic 5-gallon "drip system" buckets, (see below) set
one by each plant, and fill them all with a hose each time I work in the garden. Doing 12 or
14 plants each time I'm in the garden, it takes no special effort to rotate through them all
more or less every three weeks.

To make a drip bucket, drill a 3/16-inch hole through the side of a 4-to-6-gallon plastic bucket
about 1/4-inch up from the bottom, or in the bottom at the edge. The empty bucket is placed
so that the fertilized water drains out close to the stem of a plant. It is then filled with
liquid fertilizer solution. It takes 5 to 10 minutes for 5 gallons to pass through a small
opening, and because of the slow flow rate, water penetrates deeply into the subsoil without
wetting much of the surface. Each fertigation makes the plant grow very rapidly for two to
three weeks, more I suspect as a result of improved nutrition than from added moisture. Exactly
how and when to fertigate each species is explained in Chapter 5.

Organic gardeners may fertigate with combinations of fish emulsion and seaweed at the same
dilution used for foliar spraying, or with compost/manure tea. Determining the correct strength
to make compost tea is a matter of trial and error. I usually rely on weak Rapid-Gro mixed
at half the recommended dilution. The strength of the fertilizer you need depends on how much
and deeply you placed nutrition in the subsoil.

Chapter 4

Water-Wise Gardening Year-Round

Early Spring: The Easiest Unwatered Garden

West of the Cascades, most crops started in February and March require no special handling
when irrigation is scarce. These include peas, early lettuce, radishes, kohlrabi, early broccoli,
and so forth. However, some of these vegetables are harvested as late as June, so to reduce
their need for irrigation, space them wider than usual. Spring vegetables also will exhaust
most of the moisture from the soil before maturing, making succession planting impossible without
first irrigating heavily. Early spring plantings are best allocated one of two places in the
garden plan: either in that part of the garden that will be fully irrigated all summer or in
a part of a big garden that can affordably remain bare during the summer and be used in October
for receiving transplants of overwintering crops. The garden plan and discussion in Chapter
6 illustrate these ideas in detail.

Later in Spring: Sprouting Seeds Without Watering

For the first years that I experimented with dry gardening I went overboard and attempted to
grow food as though I had no running water at all. The greatest difficulty caused by this self-imposed
handicap was sowing small-seeded species after the season warmed up.

Sprouting what we in the seed business call "big seed"--corn, beans, peas, squash, cucumber,
and melon--is relatively easy without irrigation because these crops are planted deeply, where
soil moisture still resides long after the surface has dried out. And even if it is so late
in the season that the surface has become very dry, a wide, shallow ditch made with a shovel
will expose moist soil several inches down. A furrow can be cut in the bottom of that damp
"valley" and big seeds germinated with little or no watering.

Tillage breaks capillary connections until the fluffy soil resettles. This interruption is
useful for preventing moisture loss in summer, but the same phenomenon makes the surface dry
out in a flash. In recently tilled earth, successfully sprouting small seeds in warm weather
is dicey without frequent watering.

With a bit of forethought, the water-wise gardener can easily reestablish capillarity below
sprouting seeds so that moisture held deeper in the soil rises to replace that lost from surface
layers, reducing or eliminating the need for watering. The principle here can be easily demonstrated.
In fact, there probably isn't any gardener who has not seen the phenomenon at work without
realizing it. Every gardener has tilled the soil, gone out the next morning, and noticed that
his or her compacted footprints were moist while the rest of the earth was dry and fluffy.
Foot pressure restored capillarity, and during the night, fresh moisture replaced what had
evaporated.

This simple technique helps start everything except carrots and parsnips (which must have completely
loose soil to develop correctly). All the gardener must do is intentionally compress the soil
below the seeds and then cover the seeds with a mulch of loose, dry soil. Sprouting seeds then
rest atop damp soil exactly they lie on a damp blotter in a germination laboratory's covered
petri dish. This dampness will not disappear before the sprouting seedling has propelled a
root several inches farther down and is putting a leaf into the sunlight.

I've used several techniques to reestablish capillarity after tilling. There's a wise old plastic
push planter in my garage that first compacts the tilled earth with its front wheel, cuts a
furrow, drops the seed, and then with its drag chain pulls loose soil over the furrow. I've
also pulled one wheel of a garden cart or pushed a lightly loaded wheelbarrow down the row
to press down a wheel track, sprinkled seed on that compacted furrow, and then pulled loose
soil over it.

Handmade Footprints

Sometimes I sow large brassicas and cucurbits in clumps above a fertilized, double-dug spot.
First, in a space about 18 inches square, I deeply dig in complete organic fertilizer. Then
with my fist I punch down a depression in the center of the fluffed-up mound. Sometimes my
fist goes in so easily that I have to replace a little more soil and punch it down some more.
The purpose is not to make rammed earth or cement, but only to reestablish capillarity by having
firm soil under a shallow, fist-sized depression. Then a pinch of seed is sprinkled atop this
depression and covered with fine earth. Even if several hot sunny days follow I get good germination
without watering. This same technique works excellently on hills of squash, melon and cucumber
as well, though these large-seeded species must be planted quite a bit deeper.

Summer: How to Fluid Drill Seeds

Soaking seeds before sowing is another water-wise technique, especially useful later in the
season. At bedtime, place the seeds in a half-pint mason jar, cover with a square of plastic
window screen held on with a strong rubber band, soak the seeds overnight, and then drain them
first thing in the morning. Gently rinse the seeds with cool water two or three times daily
until the root tips begin to emerge. As soon as this sign appears, the seed must be sown, because
the newly emerging roots become increasingly subject to breaking off as they develop and soon
form tangled masses. Presprouted seeds may be gently blended into some crumbly, moist soil
and this mixture gently sprinkled into a furrow and covered. If the sprouts are particularly
delicate or, as with carrots, you want a very uniform stand, disperse the seeds in a starch
gelatin and imitate what commercial vegetable growers call fluid drilling.

Heat one pint of water to the boiling point. Dissolve in 2 to 3 tablespoons of ordinary cornstarch.
Place the mixture in the refrigerator to cool. Soon the liquid will become a soupy gel. Gently
mix this cool starch gel with the sprouting seeds, making sure the seeds are uniformly blended.
Pour the mixture into a 1-quart plastic zipper bag and, scissors in hand, go out to the garden.
After a furrow--with capillarity restored--has been prepared, cut a small hole in one lower
corner of the plastic bag. The hole size should be under 1/4 inch in diameter. Walk quickly
down the row, dribbling a mixture of gel and seeds into the furrow. Then cover. You may have
to experiment a few times with cooled gel minus seeds until you divine the proper hole size,
walking speed and amount of gel needed per length of furrow. Not only will presprouted seeds
come up days sooner, and not only will the root be penetrating moist soil long before the shoot
emerges, but the stand of seedlings will be very uniformly spaced and easier to thin. After
fluid drilling a few times you'll realize that one needs quite a bit less seed per length of
row than you previously thought.

Establishing the Fall and Winter Garden

