PROSE FANCIES

BY RICHARD LE GALLIENNE

WITH A LITHOGRAPHED PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR BY R. WILSON STEER

LONDON ELKIN MATHEWS & JOHN LANE G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS NEW YORK 1894

TO MY DEAR WIFE MY PROSE FOR HER POETRY IN MEMORY OF TWO HAPPY YEARS OCTOBER 22, 1891 DECEMBER
6 1893

CONTENTS

A SPRING MORNING A CONSPIRACY OF SILENCE LIFE IN INVERTED COMMAS FRACTIONAL HUMANITY THE WOMAN'S
HALF-PROFITS GOOD BISHOP VALENTINE IRRELEVANT PEOPLE THE DEVILS ON THE NEEDLE POETS AND PUBLISHERS
APOLLO'S MARKET THE 'GENIUS' SUPERSTITION A BORROWED SOVEREIGN ANARCHY IN A LIBRARY THE PHILOSOPHY
OF 'LIMITED EDITIONS' A PLEA FOR THE OLD PLAYGOER THE MEASURE OF A MAN THE BLESSEDNESS OF WOMAN
VIRAGOES OF THE BRAIN THE EYE OF THE BEHOLDER TRANSFERABLE LIVES THE APPARITION OF YOUTH THE
PATHETIC FLOURISH A TAVERN NIGHT SANDRA BELLONI'S PINEWOOD WHITE SOUL

NOTE

The reader will, doubtless, feel the greater confidence in the following essays, from the fact
that they have already passed their first and second readings through the hands of the editors
and subscribers of The Speaker, The Star, The Illustrated London News, and The Sketch. To the
several editors of these papers I am indebted for their kind permission to reprint, and I take
this opportunity of expressing my thanks to Mr. CLEMENT SHORTER for many other kindnesses.
I venture also particularly to thank my friend Mr. T.P. GILL--but for whose kind incitement
many of the following 'Fancies' had not been written at all.

PROSE FANCIES

A SPRING MORNING

I

Spring puts the old pipe to his lips and blows a note or two. At the sound, little thrills
pass across the wintry meadows. The bushes are dotted with innumerable tiny sparks of green,
that will soon set fire to the whole hedgerow; here and there they have gone so far as those
little tufts which the children call 'bread and cheese.' A gentle change is coming over the
grim avenue of the elms yonder. They won't relent so far as to admit buds, but there is an
unmistakable bloom upon them, like the promise of a smile. The rooks have known it for some
weeks, and already their Jews' market is in full caw. The more complaisant chestnut dandles
its sticky knobs. Soon they will be brussels-sprouts, and then they will shake open their fairy
umbrellas. So says a child of my acquaintance. The water-lilies already poke their green scrolls
above the surface of the pond; a few buttercups venture into the meadows, but daisies are still
precious as asparagus. The air is warm as your love's cheek, golden as canary. It is all a-clink
and a-glitter, it trills and chirps on every hand. Somewhere close by, but unseen, a young
man is whistling at his work; and, putting your ear to the ground, you shall hear how the earth
beneath is alive with a million little beating hearts. C'est l'heure exquise.

Presently along the road comes slowly, and at times erratically, a charming procession. Following
the fashion, or even setting it, three weeks since yon old sow budded. From her side, recalling
the Trojan horse, sprang suddenly a little company of black-and-tan piglets, fully legged and
snouted for the battle of life. She is taking them with her to put them to school at a farm
two or three miles away. So I understand her. They surround her in a compact body, ever moving
and poking and squeaking, yet all keeping together. As they advance slowly, she towering above
her tiny bodyguard, one thinks of Gulliver moving through Lilliput; and there is a touch of
solemnity in the procession which recalls a mighty Indian idol being carried through the streets,
with people thronging about its feet. How delicately she steps, lest she hurt one of the little
limbs! And, meanwhile, mark the driver--for though the old pig pretends to ignore any such
coercion, as men believe in free-will, yet there is a fate, a driver, to this idyllic domestic
company. But how gentle is he too! He never lets it be seen that he is driving them. He carries
a little switch, rather, it would appear, for form's sake; for he seldom does more with it
than tickle the gravely striding posteriors of the quaint little people. He is wise as he is
kind, for he knows that he is driving quicksilver. The least undue coercion, the least sudden
start, and they will be off like spilled marbles, in eleven different directions. Sometimes
occasion arises for prompt action: when the poet of the family dreams he discerns the promised
land through the bottom of a gate, and is bent on squeezing his way under, and the demoralisation
of the whole eleven seems imminent. Then, unconsciously applying the wisdom of Solomon, the
driver deals a smart flick to the old mother. Seeing her move on, and reflecting that she carries
all the provisions of the party, her children think better of their romance, and gambol after
her, taking a gamesome pull at her teats from high spirits.

The man never seems to get angry with them. He is smiling gently to himself all the time, as
he softly and leisurely walks behind them. Indeed, wherever this moving nursery of young life
passes, it awakens tenderness. The man who drove the gig so rapidly a little way off suddenly
slows down, and, with a sympathetic word, walks his horse gingerly by. Every pedestrian stops
and smiles, and on every face comes a transforming tenderness, a touch of almost motherly sweetness.
So dear is young life to the eye and heart of man.

A few weeks hence these same pedestrians will pass these same pigs with no emotion, beyond,
possibly, that produced by the sweet savour of frying ham. Their naïveté, their charming baby
quaintness, will have departed for ever. Their features, as yet but roguishly indicated, will
have become set and hidebound; their soft little snouts will be ringed, and hard as a fifth
hoof; their dainty little ears--veritable silk purses--will have grown long and bristly: in
short, they will have lost that ineffable tender bloom of young life which makes them quite
a touching sight to-day. Strange that loss of charm which comes with development in us all,
pigs included. A tendency to pigginess, as in these youngsters, a tendency to manhood in the
prattling and crowing babe, are both hailed as charming: but the full-grown pig! the full-grown
man! Alas! in each case the charm seems to flee with the advent of bristles.

But let us return to the driver.

Under his arm he carries a basket, from which now and again proceed suppressed squeaks and
grunts. It is 'the rickling,' the weakling, of the family. It will probably find an early death,
and be embalmed in sage and onions. The man has already had an offer for it--from 'Mr. Lamb.'
Mr. Lamb! Yes, Mr. Lamb at Six-Elm Farm. 'Oh! I see.' But was it not a startling coincidence?

It has taken half an hour to come from the old bridge to the cross-roads, barely half a mile.
And now, good-bye, funny little silken-coated piglets; good-bye, grave old mother. Ge-whoop!
Good-bye, gentle driver. As you move behind your charge with that tender smile, with that burden
safely pressed beneath your arm, I seem to have had a vision of the Good Shepherd.

II

Down by the river there is, as yet, little sign of spring. Its bed is all choked with last
year's reeds, trampled about like a manger. Yet its running seems to have caught a happier
note, and here and there along its banks flash silvery wands of palm. Right down among the
shabby burnt-out underwood moves the sordid figure of a man. He seems the very genius loci.
His clothes are torn and soiled, as though he had slept on the ground. The white lining of
one arm gleams out like the slashing in a doublet. His hat is battered, and he wears no collar.
I don't like staring at his face, for he has been unfortunate. Yet a glimpse tells me that
he is far down the hill of life, old and drink-corroded at fifty. He is miserably gathering
sticks--perhaps a little job for the farm close by. He probably slept in the barn there last
night, turned out drunk from the public-house. He will probably do and be done by likewise
to-night. How many faggots to the dram? one wonders. What is he thinking as he rustles about
disconsolately among the bushes? Of what is he dreaming? What does he make of the lark up there?
But I notice he never looks at it. Perhaps he cannot bear to. For who knows what is in the
heart beneath that poor soiled coat? If you have hopes, he may have memories. Some day your
hopes will be memories too--birds that have flown away, flowers long since withered.

III

A short way further along I come across a boy gathering palm. He is a town boy, and has come
all the way from Whitechapel thus early. He has already gathered a great bundle--worth five
shillings to him, he says. This same palm will to-morrow be distributed over London, and those
who buy sprigs of it by the Bank will know nothing of the blue-eyed boy who gathered it, and
the murmuring river by which it grew. And the lad, once more lost in some squalid court, will
be a sort of Sir John Mandeville to his companions--a Sir John Mandeville of the fields, with
their water-rats, their birds' eggs, and many other wonders. And one can imagine him saying,
'And the sparrows there fly right up into the sun, and sing like angels!' But he won't get
his comrades to believe that.

IV

Spring has a wonderful way of bringing out hidden traits of character. Through my window I
look out upon a tiny farm. It is kept by a tall, hard-looking, rough-bearded fellow, whom I
have watched striding about his fields all winter, with but little sympathy. Yet it would seem
I have been doing him wrong. For this morning, as he passed along the outside of the railing
wherein his two sheep were grazing, suddenly they came bounding towards him with every manifestation
of delight, literally recalling the lambkins which Wordsworth saw bound 'as to the tabor's
sound.' They followed as far as the railing permitted, pushing their noses through at him;
nay, when at last he moved out of reach, they were evidently so much in love that they leaped
the fence and made after him. And he, instead of turning brutally on them, as I had expected,
smiled and played with them awhile. Indeed, he had some difficulty in disengaging himself from
their persistent affection. So, evidently, they knew him better than I.

A CONSPIRACY OF SILENCE

Why do we go on talking? It is a serious question, one on which the happiness of thousands
depends. For there is no more wearing social demand than that of compulsory conversation. All
day long we must either talk, or--dread alternative--listen. Now, that were very well if we
had something to say, or our fellow-sufferer something to tell, or, best of all, if either
of us possessed the gift of clothing the old commonplaces with charm. But men with that great
gift are not to be met with in every railway-carriage, or at every dinner. The man we actually
meet is one whose joke, though we have signalled it a mile off, we are powerless to stop, whose
opinions come out with a whirr as of clockwork. Besides, it always happens in life that the
man--or woman--with whom we would like to talk is at the next table. Those who really have
something to say to each other so seldom have a chance of saying it.

Why, oh why, do we go on talking? We ask the question in all seriousness, not merely in the
hope of making some cheap paradoxical fun out of the answer. It is a cry from the deeps of
ineffable boredom.

Is it to impart information? At the best it is a dreary ideal. But, at any rate, it is a mistaken
use of the tongue, for there is no information we can impart which has not been far more accurately
stated in book-form. Even if it should happen to be a quite new fact, an accident happily rare
as the transit of Venus--a new fact about the North Pole, for instance--well, a book, not a
conversation, is the place for it. To talk book, past, present, or to come, is not to converse.

To converse, as with every other art, is out of three platitudes to make not a fourth platitude--'but
a star.' Newness of information is no necessity of conversation: else were the Central News
Agency the best of talkers. Indeed, the oldest information is perhaps the best material for
the artist as talker: though, truly, as with every other artist, material matters little. There
are just two or three men of letters left to us, who provide us examples of that inspired soliloquy,
those conversations of one, which are our nearest approach to the talk of other days. How good
it is to listen to one of these!--for it is the great charm of their talk that we remember
nothing. There were no prickly bits of information to stick on one's mind like burrs. Their
talk had no regular features, but, like a sunrise, was all music and glory.

The friend who talks the night through with his friend, till the dawn climbs in like a pallid
rose at the window; the lovers who, while the sun is setting, sit in the greenwood and say,
'Is it thou? It is I!' in awestruck antiphony, till the stars appear; and, holiest converse
of all, the mystic prattle of mother and babe: why are all these such wonderful talk if not
because we remember no word of them--only the glory? They leave us nothing, in image worthy
of the time, to 'pigeon-hole,' nothing to store with our vouchers in the 'pigeon-holes' of memory.

Pigeon-holes of memory! Think of the degradation. And memory was once a honeycomb, a hive of
all the wonderful words of poets, of all the marvellous moods of lovers. Once it was a shell
that listened tremulously upon Olympus, and caught the accents of the Gods; now it is a phonograph
catching every word that falleth from the mouths of the board of guardians. Once a muse, now
a servile drudge 'twixt man and man.

And this 'pigeon-hole' memory--once an impressionist of divine moments, now the miser of all
unimportant, trivial detail--is our tyrant, the muse of modern talk. Men talk now not what
they feel or think, but what they remember, with their bad good memories. If they remembered
the poets, or their first love, or the spring, or the stars, it were well enough: but no! they
remember but what the poets ate and wore, the last divorce case, the state of the crops, the
last trivial detail about Mars. The man with the muck-rake would have made a great reputation
as a talker had he lived to-day: for, as our modern speech has it, a Great Man simply means
a Great Memory, and a Great Memory is simply a prosperous marine-store.

What, in fact, do we talk about? Mainly about our business, our food, or our diseases. All
three themes more or less centre in that of food. How we revel in the brutal digestive details,
and call it gastronomy! How our host plumes himself on his wine, as though it were a personal
virtue, and not the merely obvious accessory of a man with ten thousand a year! Strange, is
it not, how we pat and stroke our possessions as though they belonged to us, instead of to
our money--our grandfather's money?

There is, some hope and believe, an imminent Return to Simplicity--Socialism the unwise it
call. If it be really true, what good news for the grave humorous man, who hates talking to
anything but trees and children! For, if that Return to Simplicity means anything, it must
mean the sweeping away of immemorial rookeries of talk--such crannied hives of gossip as the
professions, with all their garrulous heritage of trivial witty ana: literary, dramatic, legal,
aristocratic, ecclesiastical, commercial. How good to dip them all deep in the great ocean
of oblivion, and watch the bookworms, diarists, 'raconteurs,' and all the old-clothesmen of
life, scurrying out of their holes, as when in summer-time Mary Anne submerges the cockroach
trap within the pail! And oh, let there be no Noah to that flood! Let none survive to tell
another tale; for, only when the chronicler of small-beer is dead shall we be able to know
men as men, heroes as heroes, poets as poets--instead of mere centres of gossip, an inch of
text to a yard of footnote. Then only may we begin to talk of something worth the talking:
not merely of how the great man creased his trousers, and call it 'the study of character,'
but of how he was great, and whether it is possible to climb after him.

Talk, too, is so definite, so limited. The people we meet might seem so wonderful, might mean
such quaint and charming meanings sometimes, if they would not talk. Like some delightfully
bound old volume in a foreign tongue, that looks like one of the Sibylline books, till a friend
translates the title and explains that it is a sixteenth-century law dictionary: so are the
men and women we meet. How interesting they might be if they would not persist in telling us
what they are about!

That, indeed, is the abiding charm of Nature. No sensible man can envy Asylas, to whom the
language of birds was as familiar as French argot to our young décadents. Think how terrible
it would be if Nature could all of a sudden learn English! That exquisite mirror of all our
shifting moods would be broken for ever. No longer might we coin the woodland into metaphors
of our own joys and sorrows. The birds would no longer flute to us of lost loves, but of found
worms; we should realise how terribly selfish they are; we could never more quote 'Hark, hark,
the lark at heaven's gate sings,' or poetise with Mr. Patmore of 'the heavenly-minded thrush.'
And what awful voices some of those great red roses would have! Yes, Nature is so sympathetic
because she is so silent; because, when she does talk, she talks in a language which we cannot
understand, but only guess at; and her silence allows us to hear her eternal meanings, which
her gossiping would drown.

Happy monks of La Trappe! One has heard the foolish chattering world take pity upon you. An
hour of talk to a year of silence! O heavenly proportion! And I can well imagine that when
that hour has come, it seems but a trivial toy you have forgotten how to play with. Were I
a Trappist, I would use my hour to evangelise converts to silence, would break the long year's
quiet but to whisper, 'How good is silence!' Let us inaugurate a secular La Trappe, let us
plot a conspiracy of silence, let us send the world to Coventry. Or, if we must talk, let it
be in Latin, or in the 'Volapük' of myriad-meaning music; and let no man joke save in Greek--that
all may laugh. But, best of all, let us leave off talking altogether, and listen to the morning
stars.

LIFE IN INVERTED COMMAS

As I waited for an omnibus at the corner of Fleet Street the other day, I was the spectator
of a curious occurrence. Suddenly there was a scuffle hard by me, and, turning round, I saw
a powerful gentlemanly man wrestling with two others in livery, who were evidently intent on
arresting him. These men, I at once perceived, belonged to the detective force of the Incorporated
Society of Authors, and were engaged in the capture of a notorious plagiarist. I knew the prisoner
well. He had, in fact, pillaged from my own writings; but I was none the less sorry for his
plight, to which, I would assure the reader, I was no party. Yet he was, I admit, an egregiously
bad case, and my pity is doubtless misplaced sentiment. Like many another, he had begun his
career as a quotation and ended as a plagiarism, daring even, in one instance, to imitate that
shadow in the fairy-tale which rose up on a sudden one day and declared himself to be the substance
and the substance his shadow. Indeed, he had so far succeeded as to make many people question
whether or not he was the original and the other man the plagiarism. However, there was no
longer to be any doubt of it, for his captors had him fast this time; and, presently, we saw
him taken off in a hansom, well secured between strong inverted commas.

This curious circumstance set me reflecting, and, as we trundled along towards Charing Cross,
my mind gave birth to sundry sententious reflections.

After all, I thought, that unlucky plagiarist is no worse than most of us: for is it not true
that few of us live as conscientiously as we should within our inverted commas? We are far
more inclined to live in that author, not ourselves, who makes for originality. It is, of course,
difficult, even with the best intentions, to make proper acknowledgment of all our 'authorities'--to
attach, so to say, the true 'del. et sculp.' to all our little bits of art. There is so much
in our lives that we honestly don't know how we came by.

As I reflected in this wise, I was drawn to notice my companions in the omnibus, and lo! there
was not an original person amongst us. Yet I looked in vain to see if they wore their inverted
commas. Not one of them, believe me, had had the honesty to bring them. Each looked at me unblushingly,
as though he were really original, and not a cheap German print of originals I had seen in
books and pictures since I could read. I really think that they must have been unaware of their
imposture. They could hardly have pretended so successfully.

There was the young dandy just let loose from his band-box, wearing exactly the same face,
the same smile, the same neck-tie, holding his stick in exactly the same fashion, talking exactly
the same words, with precisely the same accent, as his neighbour, another dandy, and as all
the other dandies between the Bank and Hyde Park Corner. Yet he seemed persuaded of his own
originality. He evidently felt that there was something individual about him, and apparently
relied with confidence on his friend not addressing a third dandy by mistake for him. I hope
he had his name safe in his hat. 

Pray for me, and have mercy on my brethren, of whom I have been the unworthy prior. "He then knelt
down, repeating the first few verses of the 31st Psalm, [435] and after a few moments delivered
himself to the executioner. The others followed, undaunted. As one by one they went to their
death, the council, at each fresh horrible spectacle, urged the survivors to have pity on themselves;
but they urged them in vain. The faces of these men did not grow pale; their voices did not shake;
they declared themselves liege subjects of the king, and obedient children of holy church;" giving
God thanks that they were held worthy to suffer for the truth. "[436] All died without a murmur.
The stern work was ended with quartering the bodies; and the arm of Haughton was hung up as
a bloody sign over the archway of the Charterhouse, to awe the remaining
brothers into submission.

[Sidenote: June 10.

Three more Carthusians tried and executed.] But the spirit of the old martyrs was in these friars.
One of them, like the Theban sister, bore away the honoured relic and buried it; and all resolved
to persist in their resigned opposition.

    Six weeks were allowed them to consider.
    At the end of that time three more were taken, tried, and hanged; [437]
and this still proving ineffectual, Cromwell hesitated to proceed.

[Sidenote: Cromwell hesitates.] [Sidenote: Close of the story of
the Carthusians.] [Sidenote: They will not yield, and are crushed.]
The end of the story is very touching and may be told briefly, that
I may not have occasion to return to it.

Maurice's account is probably exaggerated, and is written in a tone
of strong emotion; but it has all the substantial features of truth.

The remaining monks were left in the house; and two secular priests
were sent to take charge of the establishment, who starved and ill-used
them; and were themselves, according to Maurice, sensual and profligate.

From time to time they were called before the privy council. Their friends and relatives were
ordered to work upon them. No effort either of severity or kindness was spared to induce them to submit;
as if their attitude, so long as it was maintained, was felt as a reproach by the government.
At last, four were carried down to Westminster Abbey, to hear the Bishop of Durham deliver his
famous sermon against the pope; and when this rhetorical inanity
had also failed, and as they were thought to confirm one another in
their obstinacy, they were dispersed among other houses the temper
of which could be depended upon.

Some were sent to the north; others to Sion, where a new prior had been appointed, of zealous
loyalty; others were left at home to be disciplined by the questionable seculars. But nothing
answered. Two found their way into active rebellion, and being concerned in the Pilgrimage of Grace, were
hung in chains at York. Ten were sent to Newgate, where nine died miserably of prison fever and
filth; [438] the tenth survivor was executed. The remainder, of whom Maurice was one, went through
a form of submission, with a mental reservation, and escaped abroad. [Sidenote: The necessity
was a cruel one, but the government are not to be blamed.] [Sidenote: The king orders the court
into mourning.] So fell the monks of the London Charterhouse, splintered to pieces-- for so only
could their resistance be overcome-- by the iron sceptre and the
iron hand which held it.

They were, however, alone of their kind. There were many perhaps who wished to resemble them, who
would have imitated their example had they dared. But all bent except these. If it had been
otherwise, the Reformation would have been impossible, and perhaps it would not have been needed.
Their story claims from us that sympathy which is the due of their
exalted courage.

But we cannot blame the government.

Those who know what the condition of the country really was, must
feel their inability to suggest, with any tolerable reasonableness,
what else could have been done.

They may regret so hard a necessity, but they will regret in silence. The king, too, was not without feeling.
It was no matter of indifference to him that he found himself driven to such stern courses with
his subjects; and as the golden splendour of his manhood was thus
sullenly clouding," he commanded all about his court to poll their
heads, "in public token of mourning;" and to give them example, he
caused his own head to be polled; and from thenceforth his beard to
be knotted, and to be no more shaven.

"[439] [Sidenote: May 8. Other martyrs who were not Catholics.] The friars of Charterhouse suffered
for the Catholic faith, as Protestants had suffered, and were still to suffer, for a faith fairer
than theirs. In this same month of May, in the same year, the English annals contain another
entry of no less sad significance. The bishops, as each day they parted further from their old allegiance,
and were called in consequence by the hateful name of heretics, were increasingly anxious to
prove by evident tokens their zeal for the true faith; and although the late act of heresy had moderated
their powers, yet power enough remained to enable them to work their will upon all extreme offenders.
Henry, also, it is likely, was not sorry of an opportunity of showing that his justice was even-handed,
and that a schism from the papacy was not a lapse into heterodoxy. His mind was moving. Latimer
and Shaxton, who three years before had been on trial for their lives,
were soon to be upon the bench; and in the late injunctions, the
Bible, and not the decrees of the church, had been held up as the
canon of truth.

But heresy, though the definition of it was changing, remained a
crime; and although the limits of permitted belief were imperceptibly
enlarging, to transgress the recognised boundaries was an offence
enormous as ever.

[Sidenote: Popular estimate of the Anabaptists.] If we can conceive
the temper with which the reasonable and practical English at present
regard the Socialists of the continent, deepened by an intensity of
conviction of which these later ages have had but little experience,
we can then imagine the light in which the Anabaptists of the Netherlands
appeared in the eyes or orthodox Europe.

If some opinions, once thought heretical, were regarded with less agitated repugnance, the heresy
of these enemies of mankind was patent to the world. On them the laws of the country might take
their natural course, and no voice was raised to speak for them. [Sidenote: May 25.] [Sidenote:
Fourteen of them are executed.] [Sidenote: They too did not die in vain.] We find, therefore,
in Stow's Chronicle, the following: brief entry:" The five and twentieth
day of May were, in St. Paul's church, London, examined nineteen men
and six women, born in Holland, whose opinions were-- first, that in Christ
is not two natures, God and man; secondly, that Christ took neither
flesh nor blood of the Virgin Mary; thirdly, that children born of
infidels may be saved; fourthly, that baptism of children is of none
effect; fifthly, that the sacrament of Christ's body is but bread
only; sixthly, that he who after baptism sinneth wittingly, sinneth
deadly, and cannot be saved.

Fourteen of them were condemned: a man and a woman were burnt at Smithfield. The remaining twelve were
scattered among other towns, there to be burnt. "[440] The details are gone, [441]-- the names
are gone. Poor Hollanders they were, and that is all. Scarcely the fact seemed worth the mention, so shortly
it is told in a passing paragraph. For them no Europe was agitated, no courts were ordered
into mourning, no papal hearts trembled with indignation. At their deaths the world looked on
complacent, indifferent, or exulting. Yet here, too, out of twenty-five common men and women
were found fourteen who, by no terror of stake or torture, could
be tempted to say that they believed what they did not believe.

History for them has no word of praise; yet they, too, were not giving
their blood in vain.

Their lives might have been as useless as the lives of most of us. In their deaths they assisted
to pay the purchase-money for England's freedom. [Sidenote: Fisher and More.] [Sidenote: Fisher's dangerous
imprudence.] [Sidenote: Treatment and conduct of Fisher and of More in the Tower.] [Sidenote: Cromwell's
charges against them.] After the execution of the Carthusians, it became a question what should
be done with the Bishop of Rochester and Sir Thomas More. They had remained for a year in the
Tower, undisturbed; and there is no reason to think that they would have been further troubled, except
for the fault of one, if not of both.

It appeared, however, on the trial of Father Reynolds, that Fisher's
imprudence or zeal had tempted him again to meddle with dangerous
matters.

A correspondence had passed between the bishop and the king, [442]
on the Act of Supremacy, or on some subject connected with it.

The king had taken no public notice of Fisher's words, but he had
required a promise that the letter should not be shown to any other
person.

The unwise old man gave his word, but he did not observe it; he sent
copies both of what he had himself written and of the king's answer to
the Sion monks, [443] furnishing them at the same time with a copy of
the book which he had written against the divorce, and two other books,
written by Abel, the queen's confessor, and the Spanish ambassador. Whether
he was discovered to have held any other correspondence, or whether
anything of an analogous kind was proved against More, I am unable to
discover. Both he and Fisher had been treated with greater indulgence
than was usual with prisoners.

[444] Their own attendants had waited on them; they were allowed to receive visits from their relatives
within the Tower walls, and to correspond with their families and friends. [445] As a matter of course,
under such circumstances, they must have expressed their opinions on the great subject of the
day; and those opinions were made known throughout England, and, indeed, throughout Europe. Whether they
did more than this, or whether they had only indirectly allowed their influence to be used against
the government, must be left to conjecture. But the language of a document under the king's
hand speaks of their having given some cause of provocation, of no common kind; and this is
confirmed by Cromwell, who was once deeply attached to More." When they were in strait keeping,
"say the instructions to the Bishop of Hereford," having nevertheless the prison at their liberties,
they ceased not both to practise an insurrection within the realm,
and also to use all the devices to them possible in outward parts,
as well to defame and slander his Majesty, and his most virtuous doings
and proceedings, as also to procure the impeachment and other destruction
of his most royal person.

"[446] Cromwell speaks also of their having been engaged in definite
schemes, the object of which was rebellion; [447] and although we
have here the ex parte statement of the government, and although such
a charge would have been held to be justified by a proof that they
had spoken generally against the Act of Supremacy, it may be allowed
to prove that so far they were really guilty; and it is equally certain
that for these two men to have spoken against the act was to have
lent encouragement to the party of insurrection, the most powerful
which that party could have received.

Thus, by another necessity, Fisher and More, at the beginning of
May, were called upon for their submission.

It was a hard case, for the bishop was sinking into the grave with
age and sickness, and More had the highest reputation of any living
man.

But they had chosen to make themselves conspicuous as confessors
for Catholic truth; though prisoners in the Tower, they were in fact
the most effectual champions of the papal claims; and if their disobedience
had been passed over, the statute could have been enforced against
no one.

[Sidenote: May 7. A deputation of the council waits upon them in the Tower. They refuse to admit
the supremacy.] The same course was followed as with the Carthusian monks. On the 7th of May a deputation
of the council waited on the prisoners in the Tower, for an acknowledgment of the supremacy. They
refused: Fisher, after a brief hesitation, peremptorily; More declining
to answer, but also giving an indirect denial.

After repeated efforts had been made to move them, and made in vain, their own language, as
in the preceding trials, furnished material for their indictment; and the law officers of the crown
who were to conduct the prosecution were the witnesses under whose evidence they were to be
tried. It was a strange proceeding, to be excused only, if excused at all, by the pressure
of the times. [448] [Sidenote: The government delay their trial.] Either the king or his ministers,
however, were slow in making up their minds. With the Carthusians, nine days only were allowed to elapse
between the first examination and the final close at Tyburn. The case against More and Fisher was no less
clear than against the monks; yet five weeks elapsed and the government still hesitated. Perhaps
they were influenced by the high position of the greater offenders,--
perhaps there was some fear of the world's opinion, which, though
it might be indifferent to the sacrifice of a few obscure ecclesiastics,
yet would surely not pass over lightly the execution of men who stood
out with so marked preëminence.

The council board was unevenly composed. Cromwell, who divides with the king the responsibility
of these prosecutions, had succeeded, not to the authority only of Wolsey, but to the hatred with
which the ignoble plebeian was regarded by the patricians who were compelled to stoop before
him. Lord Exeter was already looking with a cold eye on the revolution; and Norfolk and Suffolk,
though zealous as the king himself for the independence of England, yet had all the instincts of aristocratic
conservatism. Even Cromwell may have desired the triumph of winning over converts so distinguished,
or may have shrunk from the odium which their deaths would bring
upon him.

Whatever was the cause of the delay, the privy council, who had been contented with a single
examination of Haughton and his companions, struggled with their present difficulty week after week;
and it is possible that, except from an extraneous impulse, some mode of escape might have been discovered.
But as the sentence of Clement sealed the fate of the Nun of Kent, so the unwisdom of his successor
bore similarly fatal fruits. [Sidenote: The pope names Fisher a cardinal.] Paul III. had throughout
the spring flattered Henry with expressions of sympathy, and had held out hopes of an approaching change
of policy. He chose the present unfortunate juncture to expose the vanity of these professions;
and as an intimation of the course which he intended to follow, he named the Bishop of Rochester, the
one bishop who remained attached to Catherine's cause, a cardinal. Henry had appealed to a council,
which the pope had promised to call; and Fisher, of all Englishmen, was chosen as the person whom
the pope desired to represent the nation on its assembly. Even the very conclave at Rome were taken
by surprise, and expressed themselves in no measured terms at the impolicy of this most foolish action. Cassalis,
aware of the effect which the news would produce in England, hurried
to such friends as he possessed in the conclave to protest against
the appointment. Hidden from view
in his buhl cabinet, but none the less vivid to his sensitive egoism, were those tenderer trophies
of his power, spoils of the chase, which the adoring feminine had offered up at his shrine:
all his love-letters sorted in periods, neatly ribboned and snugly ensconced in various sandalwood
niches--much as urns are ranged at the Crematorium, Woking--with locks of hair of many hues.
He loved most to think of those letters in which the women had gladly sought a spiritual suttee,
and begged him to cement the stones of his temple of fame with the blood of their devoted hearts.
To have had a share in building so distinguished a life--that was enough for them! They asked
no such inconvenient reward as marriage: indeed, one or two of them had already obtained that
boon from others. To serve their purpose, and then, if it must be, to be forgotten, or--wild
hope--to be embalmed in a sonnet sequence: that was reward enough.

In the midst of this silent and yet so eloquent orchestra, which from morn to night was continually
crying 'Glory, glory, glory' in the ear of the self-enamoured poet, Hyacinth Rondel was sitting
one evening. The last post had brought him the above-mentioned leaves of the Romeike laurel,
and he sat in his easiest chair by the bright fire, adjusting them, metaphorically, upon his
high brow, a decanter at his right-hand and cigarette smoke curling up from his left. At last
he had drained all the honey from the last paragraph, and, with rustling shining head, he turned
a sweeping triumphant gaze around his room. But, to his surprise, he found himself no longer
alone. Was it the Muse in dainty modern costume and delicately tinted cheek? Yes! it was one
of those discarded Muses who sometimes remain upon the poet's hands as Fates.

When she raised her veil she certainly looked more of a Fate than a Muse. Her expression was
not agreeable. The poet, afterwards describing the incident and remembering his Dante, spoke
of her in an allegorical sonnet as 'lady of terrible aspect,' and symbolised her as Nemesis.

He now addressed her as 'Annette,' and in his voice were four notes of exclamation. She came
closer to him, and very quietly, but with an accent that was the very quintessence of Ibsenism,
made the somewhat mercantile statement: 'I have come for my half-profits!'

'Half-profits! What do you mean? Are you mad?'

'Not in the least! I want my share in the profits of all this pretty poetry,' and she contemptuously
ran her fingers over the several slim volumes on the poet's shelves which represented his own
contribution to English literature.

Rondel began to comprehend, but he was as yet too surprised to answer.

'Don't you understand?' she went on. 'It takes two to make poetry like yours--

    "They steal their song the lips that sing
    From lips that only kiss and cling."

Do you remember? Have I quoted correctly? Yes, here it is!' taking down a volume entitled Liber
Amoris, the passionate confession which had first brought the poet his fame. As a matter of
fact, several ladies had 'stood' for this series, but the poet had artfully generalised them
into one supreme Madonna, whom Annette believed to be herself. Indeed, she had furnished the
warmest and the most tragic colouring. Rondel, however, had for some time kept his address
a secret from Annette. But the candle set upon a hill cannot be hid: fame has its disadvantages.
To a man with creditors or any other form of 'a past,' it is no little dangerous to have his
portrait in the Review of Reviews. A well-known publisher is an ever-present danger. By some
such means Annette had found her poet. The papers could not be decorated with reviews of his
verse, and she not come across some of them. Indeed, she had, with burning cheek and stormy
bosom, recognised herself in many an intimate confession. It was her hair, her face, all her
beauty, he sang, though the poems were dedicated to another.

She turned to another passage as she stood there--'How pretty it sounds in poetry!' she said,
and began to read:--

    '"There in the odorous meadowsweet afternoon,
        With the lark like the dream of a song in the dreamy blue,
      All the air abeat with the wing and buzz of June,
        We met--she and I, I and she," [You and I, I and you.]
     "And there, while the wild rose and woodbine deliciousness blended,
      We kissed and we kissed and we kissed, till the afternoon ended...."'

Here Rondel at last interrupted--

'Woman!' he said, 'are your cheeks so painted that you have lost all sense of shame?' But she
had her answer--

'Man! are you so great that you have lost the sense of pity? And which is the greater shame:
to publish your sins in large paper and take royalties for them, or to speak of them, just
you and I together, you and I, as "there in the odorous meadowsweet afternoon"?'

'Look you,' she continued, 'an artist pays his model at least a shilling an hour, and it is
only her body he paints: but you use body and soul, and offer her nothing. Your blues and reds
are the colours you have stolen from her eyes and her heart--stolen, I say, for the painter
pays so much a tube for his colours, so much an hour for his model, but you--'

'I give you immortality. Poor fly, I give you amber,' modestly suggested the poet.

But Annette repeated the word 'Immortality!' with a scorn that almost shook the poet's conceit,
and thereupon produced an account, which ran as follows:--

'Mr. Hyacinth Rondel
                   Dr. to Miss Annette Jones,
     For moiety of the following royalties:--
Moonshine and Meadowsweet,       500 copies.
Coral and Bells,                 750 copies.
Liber Amoris, 3 editions,      3,000 copies.
Forbidden Fruit, 5 editions,   5,000 copies.
                              -------
                               9,250 copies at 1s.
                                      = £462, 10s.
     Moiety of same due to Miss Jones, £231, 5s.'

'I don't mind receipting it for two hundred and thirty,' she said, as she handed it to him.

Hyacinth was completely awakened by this: the joke was growing serious. So he at once roused
up the bully in him, and ordered her out of his rooms. But she smiled at his threats, and still
held out her account. At last he tried coaxing: he even had the insolence to beg her, by the
memory of the past they had shared together, to spare him. He assured her that she had vastly
overrated his profits, that fame meant far more cry than wool: that, in short, he was up to
the neck in difficulties as it was, and really had nothing like that sum in his possession.

'Very well, then,' she replied at last, 'you must marry me instead. Either the money or the
marriage. Personally, I prefer the money'--Rondel's egoism twinged like a hollow tooth--'and
if you think you can escape me and do neither, look at this!' and she drew a revolver from
her pocket.

'They are all loaded,' she added. 'Now, which is it to be?'

Rondel made a movement as if to snatch the weapon from her, but she sprang back and pointed
it at his head.

'If you move, I fire.'

Now one would not need to be a minor poet to be a coward under such circumstances. Rondel could
see that Annette meant what she said. She was clearly a desperate woman, with no great passion
for life. To shoot him and then herself would be a little thing in the present state of her
feelings. Like most poets, he was a prudent man--he hesitated, leaning with closed fist upon
the table. She stood firm.

'Come,' she said at length, 'which is it to be--the revolver, marriage, or the money?' She
ominously clicked the trigger, 'I give you five minutes.'

It was five minutes to eleven. The clock ticked on while the two still stood in their absurdly
tragic attitudes--he still hesitating, she with her pistol in line with the brain that laid
the golden verse. The clock whirred before striking the hour. Annette made a determined movement.
Hyacinth looked up; he saw she meant it, all the more for the mocking indifference of her expression.

'Once more--death, marriage, or the money?'

The clock struck.

'The money,' gasped the poet.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Annette still kept her weapon in line.

'Your cheque-book!' she said. Rondel obeyed.

'Pay Miss Annette Jones, or order, the sum of two hundred and thirty pounds. No, don't cross it!'

Rondel obeyed.

'Now, toss it over to me. You observe I still hold the pistol.'

Rondel once more obeyed. Then, still keeping him under cover of the ugly-looking tube, she
backed towards the door.

'Good-bye,' she said. 'Be sure I shall look out for your next volume.'

Rondel, bewildered as one who had lived through a fairy-tale, sank into his chair. Did such
ridiculous things happen? He turned to his cheque-book. Yes, there was the counterfoil, fresh
as a new wound, from which indeed his bank account was profusely bleeding.

Then he turned to his laurels: but, behold, they were all withered.

So, after a while, he donned hat and coat, and went forth to seek a flatterer as a pick-me-up.

GOOD BISHOP VALENTINE

The reader will remember how Lamb imagines him as a rubicund priest of Hymen, and pictures
him 'attended with thousands and ten thousands of little loves, and the air is

    "Brush'd with the hiss of rustling wings."

Singing Cupids are thy choristers and thy precentors; and instead of the crozier, the mystical
arrow is borne before thee.' Alas! who indeed would have expected the bitter historical truth,
and have dreamed that poor Valentine, instead of being that rosy vision, was one of the Church's
most unhappy martyrs? Tradition has but two pieces of information about him: that during the
reign of Claudius II., probably in the year 270, he was 'first beaten with heavy clubs, and
then beheaded'; and likewise that he was a man of exceptional chastity of character--a fact
that may be considered no less paradoxical in regard to his genial reputation. He was certainly
the last man to have been the patron saint of young blood, and if he has any cognisance of
the frivolities done in his name, the knowledge must be more painful to him than all the clubs
of Claudius. Unhappy saint! To have his good name murdered also! To be, through all time, the
high-priest of that very 'paganism' which he died to repudiate: the one most potent survival
throughout Christian times of the joyous old order he would fain supplant! Could anything be
more characteristic of the whimsical humour of Time, which loves nothing better than to make
a laughing-stock of human symbolism? The savage putting a stray dress-coat to solemn sacerdotal
usage, or taking some blackguard of a Mulvaney for a very god, is not more absurd than mankind
thus ignorantly bringing to this poor martyr throughout the years the very last offering he
can have desired. Surely it must have filled his shade with a strange bewilderment to have
watched us year by year bringing him garlands and the sweet incense of young love, to have
seen this gay company approach his shrine with laughter and roses, a very bacchanal, where
he had looked for sympathetic sackcloth and ashes--surely it must have all seemed a silly sacrilegious
jest. However, he is long since slandered beyond all hope of restitution. So long as the spring
moves in the blood, lovers will doubtless continue to take his name in vain, and feign his
saintly sanction for their charming indiscretions. Indeed, he is fabled by the poets to be
responsible for the billing and cooing of the whole creation. Everybody knows that the birds,
too, pair on St. Valentine's Day. We have many a poet's word for it. Donne's charming lines,
for instance--

    'All the air is thy diocese,
    And all the chirping choristers
    And other birds are thy parishioners:
    Thou marriest every year
    The lyrique lark, and the grave whispering dove,
    The sparrow, that neglects his life for love,
    The household bird with the red stomacher;
    Thou mak'st the blackbird speed as soon
    As doth the goldfinch or the halcyon.'

In fact, it would appear that St. Valentine was, literally, a hedge-priest.

But do lovers, one wonders, still observe his ancient, though mistaken, rites? Do they still
have a care whose pretty face they should first set eyes upon on Valentine's morning, like
Mistress Pepys, who kept her eyes closed the whole forenoon lest they should portend a mésalliance
with one of those tiresome 'paynters' at work on the gilding of the pictures and the chimney-piece?
Or do they with throbbing hearts 'draw' for the fateful name, or, weighting little inscribed
slips of paper with lead or breadcrumbs, and dropping them into a basin of water, breathlessly
await the name that shall first float up to the surface? Do they still perform that terrible
feat of digestion, which consisted of eating a hard-boiled egg, shell and all, to inspire the
presaging dream, and pin five bay-leaves upon their pillows to make it the surer?

We are told they do, these happy superstitious lovers, though probably the practices obtain
now mostly among a class of fair maids who have none of Mrs. Pepys' fears of 'paynters,' and
who are not averse even from a bright young plumber. Indeed, it is to be feared that the one
sturdy survival of St. Valentine is to be sought in the 'ugly valentine.' This is another of
Time's jests: to degrade the beautiful and distinguished, and mock at old-time sanctities with
coarse burlesque. We see it constantly in the fortunes of old streets and squares, once graced
with the beau and the sedan-chair, the very cynosure of the polite and elegant world, but now
vocal with the clamorous wrongs of the charwoman and the melancholy appeal of the coster. We
see it, too, in the ups and downs of words once aristocratic or tender, words once the very
signet of polite conversation, now tossed about amid the very offal of language. We see it
when some noble house, an illustrious symbol of heroic honour, the ark of high traditions,
finds its reductio ad absurdum in some hare-brained turf-lord, who defiles its memories as
he sells its pictures. But no lapse could be more pitiful than the end of St. Valentine. Once
the day on which great gentlemen and great ladies exchanged stately and, as Pepys frequently
complained, costly compliments; when the ingenuity of love tortured itself for the sweetest
conceit wherein to express the very sweetest thing; the May-day of the heart, when the very
birds were Cupid's messengers, and all the world wore ribbons and made pretty speeches. What
is it now? The festival of the servants' hall. It is the sacred day set apart for the cook
to tell the housemaid, in vividly illustrated verse, that she need have no fear of the policeman
thinking twice of her; for the housemaid to make ungenerous reflections on 'cookey's' complexion
and weight, and to assure that 'queen of the larder' that it is not her, but her puddings,
that attract the constabulary heart. It is the day when inoffensive little tailors receive
anonymous letters beginning 'You silly snip,' when the baker is unpleasantly reminded of his
immemorial sobriquet of 'Daddy Dough,' and coarse insult breaks the bricklayer's manly heart. Well,
mother darling, make your mind easy about your children now. Andrew is safe and well, though pretty
well exhausted, and his feet are so sore and swollen he can hardly stand, and can't wear anything
but rubbers, as his mountain shoes he cut to pieces.

Do true lovers still remember the day to keep it holy, one wonders? Does Ophelia still sing
beneath the window, and do the love-birds still carry on their celestial postage? One fears
that all have gone with the sedan-chair, the stage-coach, and last year's snow. Will the true
lovers go next? But, indeed, a florist told us that he had sold many flowers for 'valentines'
this year, and that the prettier practice of sending flowers was, he thought, supplanting the
tawdry and stereotyped offering of cards. Which reminds one of an old verse:

    'The violet made haste to appear,
      To be her bosom guest,
    With first primrose that grew this year
      I purchas'd from her breast;
          To me,
          Gave she,
      Her golden lock for mine;
        My ring of jet
        For her bracelet,
    I gave my Valentine.

IRRELEVANT PEOPLE

There are numberless people who are, doubtless, of much interest and charm--in their proper
context. That context we feel, however, is not our society. We have no objection to their carrying
on the business of human beings, so long as they allow us an uninterrupted trading of, say,
a hundred miles. Within that charmed and charming circle they should not set foot, and we are
quite willing in addition, for them, to gird themselves about with the circumference of another
thousand. It is not that they are disagreeable or stupid, or in any way obviously objectionable.
Bores are more frequently clever than dull, and the only all-round definition of a bore is--The
Person We Don't Want. Few people are bores at all times and places, and indeed one might venture
on the charitable axiom: that when people bore us we are pretty sure to be boring them at the
same time. The bore, to attempt a further definition, is simply a fellow human being out of
his element. It is said by travellers from distant lands that fishes will not live out of water.
It is a no less familiar fact that certain dull metals need to be placed in oxygen to show
off their brilliant parts. So is it with the bore: set him in the oxygen of his native admiration,
and he will scintillate like a human St. Catherine wheel, though in your society he was not
even a Chinese cracker. Every man needs his own stage and his own audience.

                                 'Hath not love
    Made for all these their sweet particular air
    To shine in, their own beams and names to bear,
    Their ways to wander and their wards to keep,
    Till story and song and glory and all things sleep.'

Mr. Swinburne asked the question of lovers, but perhaps it is none the less applicable to the
bore or irrelevant person. Yet a third definition of the latter here suggests itself. To be
born for each other is, obviously, to be lovers. Well, not to be born for each other is to
be bores. In future, let us not speak unkindly of the tame bore, let us say--'We were not born
for each other.'

Relations do not, perhaps, invariably suggest the first line of 'Endymion'; indeed, they are,
one fears, but infrequently celebrated in song. But the same word in the singular, how beautiful
it is! Relation! In that little word is the whole secret of life. To get oneself placed in
perfect harmony of relation with the world around us, to have nothing in our lives that we
wouldn't buy, to possess nothing that is not sensitive to us, ready to ring a fairy chime of
association at our slightest touch: no irrelevant book, picture, acquaintance, or activity--ah
me! you may well say it is an ideal. Yes, it is what men have meant by El Dorado, The Promised
Land, and all such shy haunts of the Beatific Vision. Probably the quest of the Philosopher's
Stone is not more wild. Yet men still seek that precious substitute for Midas. Brave spirits!
Unconquerable idealists! Salt of the earth!

But if it be admitted that the quest of the Perfect Relation (in two senses) is hopeless, yet
there is no reason why we should not approach as near to it as we can.

We can at least begin by barring the irrelevant person--in other words, choosing our own acquaintance.
Of course, we have no entire free-will in so important a matter. Free-will is like the proverbial
policeman, never there when most wanted. There are two classes of more or less irrelevant persons
that cannot be entirely avoided: our blood-relations, and our business-relations--both often
so pathetically distinct from our heart-relations and our brain-relations. Well, our business-relations
need not trouble us over much. They are not, as the vermin-killer advertisement has it, 'pests
of the household.' They come out only during business hours. The curse of the blood-relation,
however, is that he infests your leisure moments; and you must notice the pathos of that verbal
distinction: man measures his toil by 'hours' (office-hours), his leisure by 'moments!'

But let not the reader mistake me for a Nero. The claims of a certain degree of blood-relationship
I not only admit, but welcome as a sacred joy. Their experience is unhappy for whom the bonds
of parentage, of sisterhood and brotherhood, will not always have a sort of involuntary religion.
If a man should not exactly be tied to his mother's apron-string, he should all his life remain
tied to her by that other mysterious cord which no knife can sever. Uncles and aunts may, under
certain circumstances, be regarded as sacred, and meet for occasional burnt-offerings; but
beyond them I hold that the knot of blood-relationship may be regarded as Gordian, and ruthlessly
cut. Cousins have no claims. Indeed, the scale of the legacy duties, like few legalities, follows
the natural law. The further removed, the greater tax should our blood-relations pay for our
love, or our legacy; but the heart-relation, the brain-relation ('the stranger in blood'),
he alone should go untaxed altogether! Alas, the Inland Revenue Commissioners would charge
him more than any, which shows that their above-mentioned touch of nature was but a fluke,
after all.

It is impossible to classify the multitude of remaining irrelevancies, who, were one to permit
them, would fall upon our leisure like locusts; but possibly 'friends of the family,' 'friends
from the country,' and 'casuals' would include the most able-bodied. No Leets or Manor Courts were minded.
No taxing for Repairs and Bounds, but the Soldiers taxed for Contingencies as much Money as
they could hear any one had. So that the Tenants found themselves in a worse Pickle than ever they
had been under the Management of a Steward. They longed for Courts and Inquests, and to have
every thing set on the old Bottom again.

They heard of a poor Boy, a Son of the late Steward's, who had run away from the Lands the Time
his Father was hanged, and was now grown up to Years of Discretion. As he had bit a good while
on the Bridle, they thought he might be tamed, more careful than his Father, and do them more
Justice and Kindness. They brought him home in a Hurry; and, as it's natural to run from one
Extreme to another, were sure they were all made when they got him
into the Stewardship.

It must be owned, he was a pleasant, good-humoured Fellow as ever broke Bread, civilly behaved,
and by no means wanted Capacity for the Business. But he was idle to a Degree, followed W---- ng and
Horse-racing; and provided he could borrow Money enough from the Tenants, or get Presents
from the Neighbours, to treat his Wenches and buy them Top-knots,
never heeded how Accounts were settled, how he held the Courts, or
how he paid the Servants.

Farm-houses went to decay, and Strangers forestalled the Markets. Few People, however, could
find in their Heart to hate him. They had a Love for him, though he was daily undoing them:
For it was always their Humour to like a boon Companion; and instead of crossing his Prodigality,
they followed his Example, wh---- ed it away from the highest to the lowest, revelled and caroused
for dear Blood, and were never better pleased than when the last Penny was a going. It became
a Fashion to be Bankrupt; to be Rich, was to lose all Credit; and to be Just, was the Mark of a
Scoundrel.

But though the elder Sister was well-nigh undone by him, he did a good Turn by Betty, and sent
one of his Cousins to take care of her Concerns, who had a good Farm of his own under her, and was
well-beloved over the whole Estate. He kept Leet and Court-Baron, presented Vagabonds at the
Sessions, and gave Rewards for apprehending Out-laws. He set the Tenants to Work, lived constantly
among them, and looked himself into every thing. Betty began to thrive, and was less expensive to
her Sister, who had wasted huge Sums to keep her Head above Water.
She stuck to Business, and prospered mainly,'till the Steward's Brother
got himself into the Place, who played H---- ll with every thing, and
brought the two Sisters to the Brink of Ruin.

He was rash, senseless,
obstinate, and ill-minded; none of the Neighbours would deal with
him, or the Tenants trust him, as there was no believing one Word
he said, or promise that he made; for he had taken an Oath when he
was young never to speak Truth.
You have the power of making happy and (even better in some cases) unhappy, at least, as Carlyle
would say, 'to the extent of sixpence.'

You have tasted the sweets of choosing your own friends, and snubbing the others. You have
gone so far towards the attainment of the harmonious environment, the Perfect Relation. Your
friends shall be as carefully selected, shall mean as much to you as your books and flowers
and pictures; and your leisure shall be a priest's garden, in which none but the chosen may walk.

Yet, in spite of my little burst of Neroics, I am far from advising a cruel treatment of the
Irrelevant Person. Let us not forget what we said at the beginning, that he is probably an
interesting person in the wrong place. He has taken the wrong turning--into your company. Do
unto him as you would he might do unto you. Direct him aright--that is to say, out of it! Remember,
we are all bores in certain uncongenial social climates: all stars in our own particular milky
way. So, remember, don't be cruel--as a rule--to the Irrelevant Person; but just smile your
best at him, and whisper: 'We were not born for each other.'

THE DEVILS ON THE NEEDLE

          '... these things are life:
    And life, some say, is worthy of the muse.'

I

There is a famous query of the old schoolman at which we have all flung a jest in our time:
How many angels can dance on the point of a needle? In a world with so many real troubles it
seems, perhaps, a little idle to worry too long over the question. Yet in the mere question,
putting any answer outside possibility, there is a wonderful suggestiveness, if it has happened
to come to you illuminated by experience. It becomes a little clearer, perhaps, if we substitute
devils for angels. A friend of mine used always to look at it thus inversely when he quarrelled
with his wife. Forgive so many enigmas to start with, but it was this way. They never quarrelled
more than three times a year, and it was always on the very smallest trifle, one particular
trifle too. On the great things of life they were at one. It was but a tiny point, a needle's
end of difference, on which they disagreed, and it was on that needle's end that the devils
danced. All the devils of hell, you would have said. At any rate, you would have no longer
wondered why the old philosopher put so odd a question, for you had only to see little Dora's
face lit up with fury over that ridiculous trifle to have exclaimed: 'Is it possible that so
many devils can dance on a point where there seems hardly footing for a frown?'

However, so it was, and when I tell you what the needle's end was, you will probably not think
me worth a serious person's attention. That I shall, of course, regret, but it was simply this:
Dora would write with a 'J' pen--for which it was William's idiosyncrasy to have an unconquerable
aversion. She might, you will think, have given way to her husband on so absurd a point, a
mere pen-point of disagreement. He was the tenderest of husbands in every other point. There
is nothing that love can dream that he was not capable of doing for his wife's sake. But, on
the other hand, it was equally true that there can be no other wife in the world more devoted
than Dora; with her also there was nothing too hard for love's sake. Could he not waive so
ridiculous a blemish? It was little enough for love to achieve, surely. Yes, strange as it
seems, their love was equal to impossible heroisms: to have died for each other had been easy,
but to surrender this pen-point was impossible. And, alas! as they always do, the devils found
out this needle's end--and danced. For their purpose it was as good as a platform. It gave
them joy indeed to think what stupendous powers of devilry they could concentrate on so tiny
a stage.

It was a sad thing, too, that Dora and William were able to avoid the subject three hundred
and sixty-four days of the year, but on that odd day it was sure to crop up. Perhaps they had
been out late the night before, and their nerves were against them. The merest accident would
bring it on. Dora would ask William to post a letter for her in town. Being out of sorts, and
susceptible to the silliest irritation, he would not be able to resist criticising the addressing.
If he didn't mention it, Dora would notice his 'expression.' That would be 'quite enough,'
you may be sure. Half the tragedies of life depend on 'expression.'

'Well!' she would say.

'Well what?' he would answer, already beginning to tremble.

'You have one of your critical moods on again.'

'Not at all. What's the matter?'

'You have, I say.... Well, why do you look at the envelope in that way? I know what it is,
well enough.'

'If you know, dear, why do you ask?'

'Don't try to be sarcastic, dear. It is so vulgar.'

'I hadn't the least intention of being so.'

'Yes, you had.... Give me that letter.'

'All right.'

'Yes, you admire every woman's writing but your wife's.'

'Don't be silly, dear. See, I don't feel very well this morning. I don't want to be angry.'

'Angry! Be angry; what does it matter to me? Be as angry as you like. I wish I had never seen you.'

'Somewhat of a non sequitur, is it not, my love?'

'Don't "my love" me. With your nasty cool sarcasm!'

'Isn't it better to try and keep cool rather than to fly into a temper about nothing? See,
I know you are a little nervous this morning. Let us be friends before I go.'

'I have no wish to be friends.'

'Dora!'

William would then lace his boots, and don his coat in silence, before making a final effort
at reconciliation.

'Well, dear, good-bye. Perhaps you will love me again by the time I get home.'

'Perhaps I shan't be here when you come home.'

'For pity's sake, don't begin that silly nonsense, Dora.'

'It isn't silly nonsense. I say again--I mayn't be here when you come home, and I mean it.'

'Oh, all right then. Suppose I were to say that I won't come home?'

'I should be quite indifferent.'

'O Dora!'

'I would. I am weary of our continual quarrels. I can bear this life no longer.' (It was actually
sunny as a summer sky.)

'Why, it was only last night you said how happy we were.'

'Yes, but I didn't mean it.'

'Didn't mean it! Don't talk like that, or I shall lose myself completely.'

'You will lose your train if you don't mind. Don't you think you had better go?'

'Can you really talk to me like that?--me?--O Dora, it is not you that is talking: it is some
devil in you.'

Then suddenly irritated beyond all control by her silly little set face, he would blurt out
a sudden, 'Oh, very well, then!' and before she was aware of it, the door would have banged.
By the time William had reached the gate he would be half-way through with a deed of assignment
in favour of his wife, who, now that he had really gone, would watch him covertly from the
window with slowly thawing heart.

So the devils would begin their dance: for it was by no means ended. Of course, William would
come home as usual; and yet, though the sound of his footstep was the one sound she had listened
for all day, Dora would immediately begin to petrify again, and when he would approach her
with open arms, asking her to forgive and forget the morning, she would demur just long enough
to set him alight again. Heaven, how the devils would dance then! And the night would usually
end with them lying sleepless in distant beds.

II

To attempt tragedy out of such absurd material is, you will say, merely stupid. Well, I'm sorry.
I know no other way to make it save life's own, and I know that the tragedy of William's life
hung upon a silly little ink-stained 'J' pen. I would pretend that it was made of much more
grandiose material if I could. But the facts are as I shall tell you. And surely if you fulfil
that definition of man which describes him as a reflective being, if you ever think on life
at all, you must have noticed how even the great tragedies that go in purple in the great poets
all turn on things no less trifling in themselves, all come of people pretending to care for
some bauble more than they really do.

And you must have wondered, too, as you stood awestruck before the regal magnificence, the
radiant power, the unearthly beauty, of those glorious and terrible angels of passion--that
splendid creature of wrath, that sorrow wonderful as a starlit sky--you must have wondered
that life has not given these noble elementals material worthier of their fiery operation than
the paltry concerns of humanity; just as you may have wondered too, that so god-like a thing
as fire should find nothing worthier of its divine fury than the ugly accumulations of man.

At any rate, I know that all the sorrow that saddens, sanctifies, and sometimes terrifies my
friend, centres round that silly little 'J' pen. The difference is that the angels dance on
its point now, instead of the devils; but it is too late.

A night of unhappiness had ended once more as I described. The long darkness had slowly passed,
and morning, sunny with forgiveness, had come at length. William's heart yearned for his wife
in the singing of the birds. He would first slip down into the garden and gather her some fresh
flowers, then steal with them into the room and kiss her little sulky mouth till she awoke;
and, before she remembered their sorrow, her eyes would see the flowers.

It was a lover's simple thought, sweeter even than the flowers he had soon gathered.

But then, reader, why tease you with transparent secrets? You know that Dora could not smell
the flowers.

You know that Death had come to dance with the devils that night, and that Dora and William
would quarrel about little 'J' pens no more for ever.

POETS AND PUBLISHERS

I

A serious theme demands serious treatment. Let us, therefore, begin with definitions. What
is a poet? and what is a publisher? Popularly speaking, a poet is a fool, and a publisher is
a knave. At least, I am hardly wrong in saying that such is the literal assumption of the Incorporated
Society of Authors, a body well acquainted with both. Indeed, that may be said to be its working
hypothesis, the very postulate of its existence.

Of course, there are other definitions of both. It is not so the maiden of seventeen defines
a poet, as she looks up to him with brimming eyes in the summer sunset and calls him 'her Byron.'
It is not so the embryo Chatterton defines him, chained to an office stool in some sooty provincial
town, dreaming of Fleet Street as of a shining thoroughfare in the New Jerusalem, where move
authors and poets, angelic beings, in 'solemn troops and sweet societies.' For, indeed, was
that not the dream of all of us? For my part, I remember my first, most beautiful, delusion
was that poets belonged only to the golden prime of the world, and that, like miracles, they
had long ceased before the present age. And I very well recall my curious bewilderment when,
one day in a bookseller's, a friendly schoolmaster took up a new volume of Mr. Swinburne's
and told me that it was by the new great poet. How wonderful that little incident made the
world for me! Real poets actually existing in this unromantic to-day! If you had told me of
a mermaid, or a wood-nymph, or of the philosopher's stone as apprehensible wonders, I should
not have marvelled more. While a single poet existed in the land, who could say that the kingdom
of Romance was all let out in building lots, or that the steam whistle had quite 'frighted
away the Dryads and the Fauns'?

Since then I have taken up the reviewing of minor verse as a part of my livelihood, and where
I once saw the New Jerusalem I see now the New Journalism.

There are, doubtless, many who still cherish that boyish dream of the poet. He still stalks
through the popular imagination with his Spanish hat and cloak, his amaranthine locks, his
finely-frenzied eyes, and his Alastor-like forgetfulness of his meals. But only, it is to be
feared, for a little time. For the latter-day poet is doing his best to dissipate that venerable
tradition. Bitten by the modern passion for uniformity, he has French-cropped those locks,
in which, as truly as with Samson, lay his strength, he has discarded his sombrero for a Lincoln
and Bennett, he cultivates a silky moustache, a glossy boot, and has generally given himself
into the hands of the West-End tailor. Stung beyond endurance by taunts of his unpracticality,
he enters Parliament, edits papers, keeps accounts, and is in every way a better business man
than his publisher.

This is all very well for a little time. The contrast amuses by its piquancy. To write of wild
and whirling things in your books, but in public life to be associated with nothing more wild
and whirling than a shirt-fronted eye-glassed hansom; to be at heart an Alastor, but in appearance
a bank-clerk, delights an age of paradox.

But, though it may pay for a while, it will, I am sure, prove a disastrous policy in the long
run. The poet unborn shall, I am certain, rue it. The next generation of poets (or, indeed,
writers generally) will reap a sorrowful harvest from the gratuitous disillusionment with which
the present generation is so eager to indulge the curiosity, and flatter the mediocrity, of
the public. The public, like the big baby it is, is continually crying 'to see the wheels go
round,' and for a time the exhibition of, so to say, the 'works' of poet and novelist is profitable.
But a time will come when, with its curiosity sated, the public will turn upon the poet, and
throw into his face, on his own authority, that he is but as they are, that his airs of inspiration
and divine right are humbug. And in that day the poet will block his silk hat, will shave away
the silken moustache, will get him a bottle of Mrs. Allen's Hair Restorer, and betake himself
to the sombrero of his ancestors--but it will be all too late. The cat will have been irrecoverably
let out of the bag, the mystery of the poet as exploded as the mysteries of Eleusis.

Tennyson knew better. To use the word in its mediævalsense, he respected the 'mystery' of poetry.
Instinctively, doubtless, but also, I should imagine, deliberately, he all his life lived up
to the traditional type of the poet, and kept between him and his public a proper veil of Sinaitic
mist. You remember Browning's picture of the mysterious poet 'you saw go up and down Valladolid,'
and the awestruck rumours that were whispered about him--how, for instance--

    'If you tracked him to his home, down lanes
    Beyond the Jewry, and as clean to pace,
    You found he ate his supper in a room
    Blazing with lights, four Titians on the wall,
    And twenty naked girls to change his plate!'

That is the kind of thing the public likes to hear of its poets. That is something like a poet.
Inquisitive the public always will be, but it is a mistake to indulge rather than to pique
its curiosity. Tennyson respected the wishes of his public in this matter, and, not only in
his dress and his dramatic seclusion, but surely in his obstinate avoidance of prose-work of
any kind we have a subtler expression of his carefulness for fame. It is a mistake for a poet
to write prose, however good, for it is a charming illusion of the public that, comparatively
speaking, any one can write prose. It is an earthly accomplishment, it is as walking is to
flying--is it not stigmatised 'pedestrian'? Now, your true Bird of Paradise, which is the poet,
must, metaphorically speaking, have no legs--as Adrian Harley said was the case with the women
in Richard Feverel's poems. He must never be seen to walk in prose, for his part is, 'pinnacled
dim in the intense inane,' to hang aloft and warble the unpremeditated lay, without erasure
or blot. This is, I am sure, not fanciful, for two or three modern instances, which I am far
too considerate to name, illustrate its truth. Unless you are a very great person indeed, the
surest way to lose a reputation as poet is to gain one as critic. It is true that for a time
one may help the other, and that if you are very fecund, and let your poetical issues keep
pace with your critical, you may even avoid the catastrophe altogether; but it is an unmistakable
risk, and if in the end you are not catalogued as a great critic, you will assuredly be set
down as a minor poet: whereas if you had stuck to your last, there is no telling what fame
might not have been yours. Limitation, not versatility, is the fashion to-day. The man with
the one talent, not the five, is the hero of the hour.

Besides, this sudden change of his spots on the part of the poet is unfair to the publisher,
who is thus apt to find himself surprised out of his just gain. For, at the present moment,
I would back almost any poet of my acquaintance against any publisher in a matter of business.
This is unfair, for the publisher is a being slow to move, slow to take in changed conditions,
always two generations, at least, behind his authors. Consequently, this sudden development
of capacity on the part of the poet is liable to take him unprepared, and the mere apparition
of a poet who can add up a pounds shillings and pence column offhand might well induce apoplexy.
Yet it is to be feared that that providence which arms every evil thing with its fang has so
protected the publisher with an instinctive dread of verse in any form, and especially in manuscript,
that he has, after all, little to fear from the poet's new gifts.

II

But, indeed, my image just now was both uncomplimentary and unjust: for, parallel with the
change in the poet to which I have referred, a still more unnatural change is making itself
apparent in the type of the publisher. It would almost seem as if the two are changing places.
Instead of the poet humbly waiting, hat in hand, kicking his heels for half a day in the publisher's
office, it is the publisher who seeks him, who writes for appointments at his private house,
or invites him to dinner. Yet it behoves the poet to be on his guard. A publisher, like another
personage, has many shapes of beguilement, and it is not unlikely that this flattering deference
is but another wile to entrap the unwary. There is no way of circumventing the dreamer so subtle
as to flatter his business qualities. We all like to be praised for the something we cannot
do. It is for this reason that Mr. Stevenson interferes with Samoan politics, when he should
be writing romances--just the desire of the dreamer to play the man of action.

But I am not going to weary you by indulging in the stale old diatribes against the publisher.
For, to speak seriously the honest truth, I think they are in the main a very much abused race.
Thackeray put the matter with a good deal of common-sense, in that scene in Pendennis where
Pen and Warrington walk home together from the Fleet prison, after hearing Captain Shandon
read that brilliant prospectus of the Pall Mall Gazette, which he had written for bookseller
Bungay, and for which that gentleman disbursed him a £5 note on the spot. Pen, you will remember,
was full of the oppressions of genius, of Apollo being tied down to such an Admetus as Bungay.
Warrington, however, took a maturer view of the matter. Yet, fairly dealt with, the history
of publishing would show a much nearer living up to them on the part of publishers than the
poets and their sentimental sympathisers are inclined to admit. We hear a great deal of Milton
getting £10 for Paradise Lost, and the Tonsons riding in their carriage, but seldom of Cottle
adventuring thirty guineas on Coleridge's early poems, or the Jacksons giving untried boys
£10--or, according to some accounts, £20--for Poems by Two Brothers.

To open the case for the bookseller or the publisher. The poet, to start with, bases his familiar
complaints on a wilful disregard of the relation which poetry bears to average humanity. You
often hear him express indignant surprise that the sale of butcher's meat should be a more
lucrative business than the sale of poetry. But, surely, to argue thus is to manifest a most
absurd misapprehension of the facts of life. Wordsworth says that 'we live by admiration, joy,
and love.' So doubtless we do: but we live far more by butcher's meat and Burton ale. Poetry
is but a preparation of opium distilled by a minority for a minority. The poet may test the
case by the relative amounts he pays his butcher and his bookseller. So far as I know, he pays
as little for his poetry as possible, and never buys a volume by a brother-singer till he has
vainly tried six different ways to get a presentation copy. The poet seems incapable of mastering
the rudimentary truth that ethereals must be based on materials. 'No song, no supper' is the
old saw. It is equally true reversed--no supper, no song. The empty-stomach theory of creation
is a cruel fallacy, though undoubtedly hunger has sometimes been the spur which the clear soul
doth raise.

The conditions of existence compel the publisher to be a tradesman on the same material basis
as any other. Ideally, a poem, like any other beautiful thing, is beyond price; but, practically,
its value depends on the number of individuals who can be prevailed upon to purchase it. In
its ethereal--otherwise its unprinted--state, it is only subject to the laws of the celestial
ether, one of which is that it yields no money; properly speaking, money is there an irrelevant
condition. Byron, you remember, would not for a long time accept any money from Murray for
his poems, successful as they were. He had a proper sense of the indignity of selling the children
of his soul. The incongruity is much as though we might go to Portland Road and buy an angel,
just as we buy a parrot. The transactions of poetry and of sale are on two different planes.
But so soon as, shall we say, you debase poetry by bringing it down to the lower plane, it
becomes subject to the laws of that plane. An unprinted poem is a spiritual thing, but a printed
poem is subject to the laws of matter. When he understood that Blanch and her Sister were so
hampered and Tyrannically treated by the Steward, he came to their Assistance, supplied them
with Money, which he raised from the Fen-men, and fairly set them free from his Oppression and Rapine,
reversed his Grants, cancelled his sham Leases, restored Possessions, Leets and Manor-Courts,
made up Fences for the Tenants, and so strongly secured their Copyholds, that there is no likelihood
they will ever be ousted or much disturbed again. And, to crown all the Services he had done
the two Sisters, he recommended them, before he parted, to the Care
of a neighbouring Lord, a Cousin of his own, and a right honest Man,
who proved a Father to them and their People, defended their Rights,
and secured their Properties.

And yet Blanch could never rightly like the Fen-man, as she called him, though he had done so much for
her. She could not comport herself with his Manners and his Humour, hated the Servants he brought
with him, complained they were too costly to her, though she kept them sparingly, and even quarrelled
(so exceptious are Women) to the Cut of their Cloaths, and the Colour
of their Liveries.

But Betty Ireland had more Gratitude than her Sister, adored him while he stayed with her, and to this
Day remembers him as her great Deliverer, the Protector of her Life,
and the Founder of her Fortune.

She,
indeed, had double Obligations, as her Condition was more helpless than her Sister's, and she
had more severely felt the Tyranny of the Steward, who, because she could not so readily complain
of him, had first stripped her of all she had, and then sold her to Bondage. But both Sisters ought
surely to reflect, that all the Happiness, and all the Security they have since enjoyed, has
been owing to the Friendships he procured them, when he put them under the Protection of his
Cousins; and that he has effectually banished the Stewards thereby, who would doubtless otherwise be
meddling with their Affairs, and use them worse than ever they did before, as coming in without
Leave, they would act without Controul.

But maugre all these Considerations, Blanch was glad when he left her, and ready to leap out
of her Skin for joy. She thought of nothing but Diversions, spent her Time and Money in visiting
and dressing, ransacked the Globe to set off her Person, and, it
must be owned, she never looked handsomer in her Life.

Wherever she went, she was adored as an Angel, surrounded by admiring Throngs, and Thousands hanging
on her Look.

But all this was empty Pageantry and too expensive Glory.

She ran herself in Debt to uphold this Appearance, mortgaged her Estate, and bartered her Stock,
for the vain Applause of flattering Knaves, and scoundrel Tradesmen. It was Time to pull in,
and keep a Hank in the Hand. She saw her Folly, and doffed her Gear. It was better go plain
than run in Debt for Finery; and enough she had to do to pay the Debts she had contracted in her
Fit of Vanity.

Betty all the while was minding Business at home, and her Affairs prospered amain. Her Tenants became
industrious, and her Estate improved; yet she never thought herself sufficiently secure till
she got under the new Protection her Deliverer had provided. Her Situation is particular. She
has a strange Mixture of People on her Estate, who are always at Daggers drawing with one another,
and a mighty Hindrance to her Business. They are Whites, Blacks,
and Black and White.

The Whites only are allowed to be Land-holders; but the last, by hiding half the Face when they converse
with her, pass for Whites, and make good their Titles. The first are dreadfully maligned by the
Blacks, who are unhappily the more numerous, lay old Claims to her Lands, and are ever watching for
an Opportunity to make a Riot, and take forcible Possession.'Till
now they were too much favoured by her Sister, which checked the Industry
of her Farmers.

But when they found they had nothing to fear, either at home or abroad,
they began in earnest to improve their Concerns, as they were sure
they were working for themselves, and in no Danger of being dispossessed,
by Virtue of chimerical Claims, and Antediluvian Proprietors.

The
Blacks, indeed, immediately made a Riot on this new Settlement, but could not get Possession;
and, lately, a young Jackanapes pretended a Right to be Steward to both Sisters, by Virtue of
a Patent he had got from the last Steward, as if he had a Right to
dispose of a Place he had been turned out of himself.

He came on the Lands, however, with a bloody-minded Crew of skirtless Vagabonds, drove off the Cattle,
robbed the Hen-roosts, and swaggered at so unmerciful a Rate, that
Blanch was frightened out of her Senses, and was fain to send for a Dram
of Gin to restore her Spirits. But if she was frightened, her Guardian
was not, and had a Month's Mind to find out the Varlet in Person,
and tread him under his Feet.

But as he could not leave the Hall-house where the Court was sitting,
he sent a Lad of his own to take Account of him, who did the Business
tightly. He was a well-mettled Blade, and Steel to the Back. He came up
with him at the Corner of a Farmer's Yard, where he gave him and
his Desperados a wofull Drubbing, kicked him i'the A---- e, soused
him in the Horse-pond, which he swam over to save his Bacon, and looked
so miserably scared in his Passage, that it's sure he'll never try
the Ford again.

For a good while before this Alarm happened (which proved nothing but a Bugbear) both the Sisters
had a fair Opportunity of minding their Concerns, and getting above the World. Blanch might have
paid her Debts, and had Money to the fore; but it was ever her Misfortune
to be ill-served by almost all she employed.

          Never, sure, had Lady so unhandy
    a Pack about her, and, indeed, it was impossible it could well be
otherwise; for she did not chuse her Servants because they were fit
for this, or that Office, but because they asked, and would have it,
or be horribly out of Humour else, would make a Noise and Uproar at
every Court-Leet, terrify the Tenants at every Ale-house, with strange
Stories of Designs on their Copy-holds, and wicked Plots just ready
to begin;'till they turned their Heads, and set them madding.

So that the poor Lady was fain to take them in, to keep Peace at Home, and to pay them Wages for not
doing her Business. The Consequence of which was, she had Clerks could neither write or read;
Book, and Cash-keepers, that could not count or cast up, or ever heard of a Ballance in their
Lives.

And so ridiculous was her Compliance in this Point, that she had once a Lady to curry her Horse,
and a Fishmonger for a Grass Bailiff.'Tis true, she would often change her Servants, but not
a Barrel the better Herring. If she got one, by chance, knew any thing of his Business, the rest never left
boddering her'till they had him out. It should never be said they demeaned themselves so much as to
serve with one, who would spoil every thing by his Rashness, and disgrace
the Service by his Ignorance. Now, by Rashness they meant resenting
Insults and Injuries done their Lady; and by Ignorance, not knowing
how to buy and sell, and live by the Loss. So that, all Things considered,
it were a Marvel her Affairs should be in better Plight than they are,
or her Debts be paid with more Ease and Expedition.

Betty, in the mean time, is come to an opulent Fortune, has her Rents well paid, and her Farms daily
improving, and would improve ten times more, if her Sister could see her own Advantage so far,
as to give her that Encouragement she is daily giving to Strangers, who give her nothing in Return
but their Envy and Ill-will.

    But as it is, Betty's in a good Way,
    and makes the most of a
    bad Market. And since she must
    not work for her Sister, she works for herself.

    It had been a Custom of hers to buy every
       thing she wanted from her
    Sister's Tenants and Tradesmen, though they used her abominably,
and put off upon her the worst Goods they had.

If the Farmer had damaged Hops, he sold them to Betty Ireland; if his Malt was blinked, away
it went to her; and the Pothecary thought his decayed Drugs good
enough for Betty, and instead of burning them, laid them by for her,
as tho'she were not a Christian, or had the same Inside as her Sister.

Betty could not help this contemptuous Treatment, as she had nothing she wanted at Home, by reason
of her Laziness, though all Materials in abundance were at hand.'Tis incredible to relate, but,
at the Time I am speaking of, certain Fact, on her whole Estate there was not one to be found
could make a Buckle for her Shoe, or a Pin to her Sleeve; a Pot, a Spit, or any Utensil to cook
her Victuals, might as well be found among the Tartars as with her.

She took
every thing from her Sister at what Price she pleased, unsight unseen, and bought the Pig in
the Poke. Necessity roused her from Stupidity and Sloth, she encouraged her Tenants to apply
to Trades, assured them of a ready Market, and rewarded those that did their Work the best; and,
at present, has every thing within herself. And tho'it must be owned a very unreasonable, and
not to be endured Instance of her Impudence, she proposes to dress
in her own Manufactures, and does not mean to trouble her Sister any
longer for cast Cloaths and unmerchantable commodities.

But in every other Respect, she desires to keep up a good Correspondence with her, and is daily doing
every thing in her Power, to gain her Favour, and procure her Regards. Whatever she can spare
from her ordinary Expences, she, in some Shape or other, makes a
Present of to her Sister, in Acknowledgement for Services done, and
Kindnesses receiv'd in her Minority. Has Blanch a Favourite whom she
cannot readily provide for, a poor Relation on hand, or Retainer to
the Family, a broken Projector, or cast Serving-man; she has no more
to do but acquaint Betty with it, who quickly puts him on a creditable
Pension, and never refuses, though she run herself in Debt by it.

Is Blanch engaged in a Brangle with her Tenants, (who, by the way, are cursedly litigious) and hard
put to it for Hands to do her Business, Betty makes an Offer of sending her People to help
her, and maintaining them abroad at her own Charges. Does a Tenant of Blanch come to favour her with
a Visit, she receives him with Hospitality and Respect, and would sacrifice her Fortune to make his Entertainment
agreeable. If all this Complaisance should fail of its Effect, and not so succeed as to keep
Blanch in good Humour,'tis easy to say where the Fault must lie, and from what Causes her Discontents
arise. In the first Place, it has ever been the Fate of her Domesticks to be invincibly hated
by her Tenants without Difference or Distinction, (for, to say Truth,
they have no Head for Distingo's:) There is but one Thing in the
World they hate more, and that is Betty Ireland.

Now, the Servants bear hard on Betty, to curry Favour with her Sister's Tenants, who would go half
Way to the D---- l to have Betty d---- d, are for ever cursing her, and laying all their Misfortunes
at her Door. If the Clothier loses his Business, or has his Goods on Hand,'tis all'long of Betty:
Wheat bears no Price, for Betty has glutted the Market. Whereas, in Fact, they never keep the same
Markets. But they forget, they are all so idle and debauched, such gobling and drinking Rascals,
and so expensive in blew Beer, that they are forced to put a double Price on every thing goes to
Market; so that no Body will deal with them. Indeed, if it incenses them, that Betty won't buy,
burn her own Goods and take off theirs, they must e'en turn the Buckle behind. Blanch will be wiser,
for her own sake, than lay Stresses on her Sister, from whom she gets more than by all the World beside,
only to humour a Set of grumbling Churls, who don't know what they would be at; and so extremely
senseless, that it's Matter of Wonder, their Oxen don't ride them to the Market, and sell them.'Tis
true, a Linen-weaver, one of Blanch's Tenants, prevailed on her lately to withdraw some Encouragement
she had given Betty, and transfer it to a Stranger. But that was owing to bad Advice given her,
by a Clerk she has since turned off, and sent a stroling among Brandy-shops
and Ale-houses, to backbite his Lady for want of other Employment.

Another Cause of Blanch's Dislike to her Sister was, a Fright she took, when she was just delivered,
at some ill-looking People, who came from Betty's Lands, and appeared
under her Window.

There's
no doubt but Blanch has as much Courage as any genteel Lady ought to have, and must have been
in a Fit of low Spirits when she, and all her Tenants from her, took so senseless an alarm, as to
run distracted thro'Fear of half a Dozen Fellows cutting all their Throats in one Night, who were
ready to run through Fire and Water for Fear of being hang'd themselves; yet certain it is, from this
ridiculous Incident, and from nothing else, can be derived, that universal Hatred shewn her by
Blanch's Tenants, though they have never seen, spoken with, or had any Dealings whatever, either with
Betty or her Tenants. People must be generous, as well as brave, to forgive those that frighten
them. There's another Cause of Dislike among such as have Dealings with Betty's Tenants who come on Business,
or to visit her Sister, that they run in debt with them, and don't pay. So do all their Neighbours,
for that matter; but they complain of none but Betty, though it is
very well known they make ample Reprisals on her; and one Bite of
theirs, is worth a hundred of Betty's, who are none but such as are
despised at home, and can get neither Credit or Company there; for
Betty is not yet arrived to that Degree of Politeness, as to court
and caress Highway-men and Sharpers, only because they keep good Company,
and are Gentlemen of nice Honour, but sincerely wishes her Sister
to hang them all.

The last I shall mention (and, to be sure, a wise Cause of Dislike it is) Betty goes once, at least,
every Year to pay her Sister a Visit, carries all her Money, puts on her best Cloaths, lives high
as long as she has a Penny left. This vexes her Sister, and many a Slut and Flirt she calls Betty,
at the very time she is throwing away her Money with both Hands for the Tradesmen and Shoeboys to scramble
up. They are both Fools; One for shewing this Contempt, and the other for putting herself in the Way
of it. It is wished, but probably in vain, that the two Sisters would
come to a better Understanding.

They that have considered the true Interest of both, see plainly that
the elder, and consequently the younger, must be shortly undone, if
these Bickerings and ill Offices continue.

So unnatural a Quarrel between near Relations must make them despised by all the Neighbours around,
who are hourly taking the Advantage of it, and profiting themselves by the Hindrance the Sisters
give to each other. But their Manners and Disposition are so different, that it's next to impossible
they should ever love one another; tho', for mutual Interest, and to make that Figure in the Eye
of the World which two Ladies of their Distinction and Fortune ought to assume, their Friends
may agree to promote jointly their Interests, and never heed how peevish and untoward either
of them may be, or pay any Regard to the fanciful Aversions, and ungrounded Jealousies, which
are always inseparable from a female Breast. Tho'in this History I
have rather copied the chaste Brevity of Cornelius Nepos, than the
diffused and chatty Eloquence of Plutarch; I shall conclude, in Imitation
of the latter, with a Description of the two Ladies, their Persons,
Manners, and Inclinations; and, in drawing the Parallel, with Freedom
represent, their Vices as well as Vertues, their Faults as well as
their Perfections.

Blanch is by much the taller, neat, timbersome, and well made, a
lively Look and a sprightly Air.

Betty's Face is full out as handsome as her Sister's, tho'not so regular, has more variety and
striking Beauties, and, with equal Dressing, would appear more lovely than the other; but she's a
Slattern in her Dress. As to their Tempers, Pride is the prevailing Passion of the first, and
Vanity of the second; from which naturally, and unavoidably arises, every observable Character
of their Mind and Manners. Blanch's Pride makes her selfish and reserved, contemptuous, if
not rough, in her Behaviour. Betty's Vanity makes her open and communicative, fond of shewing
herself on all Occasions, complaisant, and caressing, to a Degree
of Flattery.

    
    

As Blanch does not know what it is to have Love or Affection for any one but herself, so she expects
it from no one, but claims a great deal of Respect. Betty doesn't know what Respect for her
means, but to gain her Love and Liking would part with all she had. Blanch is frugal in the main,
not very hospitable, and seldom lavish but in private Pleasures. Betty is hospitable to Prodigality,
lavish to Folly, and thinks nothing a Pleasure that others don't share in. Hence it comes,
that the first loves her Money above all things, the second less
than any thing she has any value for at all; that one is anxious to
get, the other in haste to spend.

Blanch has a good Understanding, but does not know the World, and is
commonly choused by her Neighbours.

Betty has no Opportunity of knowing the World, as her Sister won't let her go much abroad or converse
with the Neighbours; she has but little Experience, and, to be sure, is not very wise, but is the
quickest in the World at finding out a Fool. The elder is cautious, and hides carefully every Fault she
is conscious of; the younger is not conscious of any Fault of Folly whatever; so they all
come out in her communicative Fits, which seize her as often as she
gets a Stranger to talk to.

Blanch is the more censorious, and Betty the greater Liar. If either of the Ladies think the
Picture not like, let them call to mind the Story of a famous Painter, who had drawn the Portrait
of a young Man, whostood very well with himself, but didn't please
him. "You have drawn me," said he, "exactly the Reverse of every thing
I am." If it be so, replied the Painter, that must be your Likeness,
and set the Picture on the Head. FINIS. BOOKS Printed for, and Sold
by, PETER WILSON, in Dame-street. The Spectator.

In 8 Volumes. Price 16s. 6d.---- The same. Volume 9th. Pr. 2s. 8d. halfp. The Minor Poets; or, the
Works of the most celebrated Authors, of whose Writings there are but small Remains, viz. the Earls of
Roscommon, Dorset, and Hallifax; Sir Sam. Garth; Geo. Stepney, Will. Walsh, and Tho. Tickell,
Esqrs. and Thomas Sprat, Bishop of Rochester. In 2 Volumes. Price
5s. 5d.

The Universal History, from the earliest Account of Time to the Present. Compiled from original Authors,
and illustrated with Maps, Cuts,& c. In 20 Volumes. The Life and Exploits of Don Quixote de la Mancha. Translated
from the original Spanish, by Charles Jarvis, Esq; In 4 Volumes. With a new Set of Cuts. Pr. 12s.
A Collection of Poems.

In 2 Volumes. By several Hands; viz. Lyttleton, West, C---- d, Garrick, Melmoth, Akinside, Brooke,&
c. Collected by R. Dodsley. Pr. 5s. 5d. A New General English Dictionary, peculiarly calculated
for the Use and Improvement of such as are unacquainted with the learned Languages. By Thomas
Dyche. The 7th. Edition, with Additions. Pr. 6s. A Guide to the
English Tongue. By Thomas Dyche. The 32d. Edition, with Additions.
Pr. 9d.

Odes of Pindar. Translated from the Greek. By Gilbert West, Esq; Pr. 2s. 2d. The NEW whole Duty
of Man. Containing the Faith as well as Practice of a Christian. Necessary for all Families, and
Authorized by the King's most Excellent Majesty. The 8th Edition, with large Additions.----
N. B. A proper Allowance will be made by the Dozen. An Address to Persons of Quality and Estate. By Robert Nelson,
Esq; Author of the Festivals and Fasts of the Church of England. Pr. 2s. 2d. The Freeholder; or,
Political Essays. By the Right Hon. Joseph Addison, Esq; Pr. 2s. 2d. Six Discourses on Prophecy.
With 4 Dissertations, and an Appendix. By Thomas Sherlock, now Lord Bishop of London. Pr. 3s. 3d. An
Examination of the Bishop of London's Discourses on Prophecy. By Conyers Middleton, D. D. Pr. 1s. 1d.
The Complaint; or, Night Thoughts on Life, Death, and Immortality. By Edward Young, Author of
the Universal Passion. Pr. 2s. 8d. halfp. A New Version of the Psalms
of David. By N. Tate, and N. Brady.

Printed on a good Paper, and large Letter, Pr. 1s. 8d. The Adventures of Mr. George Edwards, a
Creole. Pr. 2s. 2d. The Tradesman's Vade Mecum. Containing Sir Samuel Moreland's Tables, shewing
the Value of any Quantity of Goods, at any Rate, from half a Farthing to 20 Shillings per Yard,
Pound,& c. With Tables of Coin and Interest.

Pr. 1s. 1d. Tales and Fables of the late Archbishop of Cambray, Author of Telemachus. Pr. 8d. Visions
in Verse, for the Entertainment and Instruction of younger Minds. The 4th Edition. Pr. 6d. halfp.
A Tour through Ireland. In several entertaining Letters. Pr. 2s. 2d. sew'd. The British Theatre;
or, the Lives of the English Dramatic Poets, with an Account of all
their Plays. Pr. 2s.

2d. sew'd. Joe Miller's Jests; or, The Wits Vade Mecum.

The 12th Edition, with large Additions. Pr. 1s. 1d.

The Works of Mr. William Congreve. In 2 Volumes. Siss called
him her Punchinello, likewise her poet, for Jim is a poet who makes his poetry of his own bright
face and body, acts it night after night to an audience, and the people laugh and cry as he
plays, for his face is like a bubbling spring, full of laughing eddies on the surface, but
ever so deep with sweet freshness beneath--and some catch sight of the deeps. The world knows
him as a comedian. Siss knows him as a poet, and because she knows what loving tender tears
are in him as well as laughter, she calls him her Punchinello.

This is what she was writing: 'How near our home seems now, Jimmie boy! Every night as you
go on--and you are just going on now--I feel our home draw nearer: and, do you know, all this
week our star has seemed to grow brighter and brighter. Can you see it in London? It comes
out here about six o'clock--first very pale, like a dream, and then fuller and fuller and warmer
and warmer. Sometimes I say that it is the sovereigns we are putting into the bank that make
it so much brighter; and I am sure it was brighter after that last ten pounds.... You are laughing
at me, aren't you? Never mind; you can be just as silly. Dear, dear, funny little face!'

I had reached just so far in my dream when the oysters came, and that is why I wished I had
ordered 'Anglos' and no roll.

When I looked again, Siss had stopped writing, and was sitting with her head in her hands dreaming.
I looked into her eyes, felt ashamed for a moment, and then stepped into her dream. I felt
I was not worthy to walk there, but I took off my hat and told myself that I was reverent.

It was a pretty flat, full of dainty rooms, and I followed her from one to another, and one
there was just like that in which I had seen her writing, with the old escritoire, and the
books, and the burning candles, and the silver photograph shrine. She walked about very wistfully,
and her eyes were full. So were mine, and I wanted to sob, but feared lest she should hear.
Presently Jim joined her, and they walked together, and said to each other, 'Think, this is
our home at last'--'Think, this is our home at last. O love, our home--together for evermore!'

This they said many times, and at length they came to a room that had a door white as ivory,
and I caught a breath of freshest flowers as they opened and passed in.

Then I closed my eyes, and when I looked again I thought an angel stood on the threshold, as
I had seen it somewhere in Victor Hugo--a happy angel with finger upon his lip.

And when the dream had gone, and I was once more alone, I said 'Jim is working, Siss is waiting,
and I--am eating borrowed oysters.'

Then I took out the sovereign and looked at it, for it was now symbolic. Outside, above the
street, a star was shining. I had filched a beam of Siss's star. Was it less bright tonight?
Had she missed this sovereign?

It had been symbolic before--a sovereign's-worth of the world, the flesh, and the devil; now
it was a sovereign's-worth of holy love and home. Every penny I spent of it dimmed that star,
delayed that home. In my pocket it meant a sovereign's-worth more working and waiting. Pay
it back again into that star, and it was a sovereign nearer home. Yes, it was a sovereign's-worth
of that flat, of that escritoire, those books, those burning candles, that photograph, that
ivory-white door, those sweet-smelling flowers, a sovereign's-worth of that angel, I was keeping
in my pocket.

Out on it! God forgive me. I had not thought it meant that to borrow a sovereign from Jim,
meant that to eat those borrowed oysters. Nevertheless, they had not been all an immoral indulgence.
Even oysters may be the instruments of virtue in the hands of Providence.

The shopman knew me, so I 'confounded it' and told him I had come out without my purse. It
was all right. Pay next time, Jim's theatre was close by, it was but a stone's-throw to the
stage-door. Easy to leave him a note. What will he think, I wonder, as he reads it, and the
sovereign rolls out: 'Dear old man, forgive me--I forgot it was a sovereign's-worth of home.'

Yet, after all, it was the oysters that did this thing.

ANARCHY IN A LIBRARY

(A FABLE FOR SOCIALISTS)

Having occasion recently to re-arrange my books, they lay in bewildering jumbled heaps upon
my study floor; and, having in vain puzzled over this plan and that which should give the little
collection a continuity such as it had never attained before, I at length gave it up in despair,
and sat, with my head in my hands, hopeless. Presently I seemed to hear small voices talking
in whispers, a curious papery tone, like the fluttering of leaves, and listening I heard distinctly
these words:--'The great era of universal equality and redistribution has dawned at last. No
one book shall any longer claim more shelf than another, no book shall be taller or thicker
than another. The age of folios and quartos is past, and the Age of the Universal Octavo has
dawned.'

Looking up, I saw that the voice was that of a shabby, but perky, octavo, which I had forgotten
I ever possessed, since the day when some mistaken charity had prompted me to rescue it from
the threepenny box and give it a good home in a respectable family of books. Certainly, it
had so far filled the humble position of a shelf-liner, and its accidental elevation into daylight
on the top of a prostrate folio had evidently turned its head. It was now doing its best to
disseminate socialistic principles among the set of scurvy octavos and duodecimos in its neighbourhood.

'Why should we choke with dust in the dark there,' it continued, 'that these splendid creatures
should glitter all day in the sunshine, and get all the firelight of an evening? We were born
to be read as much as they, born to enjoy our share of the good things of this world as much
as my Lord Folio, as much as any Honourable Quarto, or fashionable Large Paper. My Brothers,
the hour has come: will you strike now or never, exact your rights as free-born books, or will
you go back to be shelf-liners as before?'

[Loud cries of 'No! no! we won't,' here encouraged the speaker.]

'Strike now, and the book unborn shall bless you. Miss this golden opportunity, and the cause
we serve will be delayed another hundred editions.'

At this point a great folio that had for some time been leaning threateningly, like a slab
at Stonehenge, above the speaker, suddenly fell and silenced him; but he had not spoken in
vain, and from various sets of books about the room I heard the voices of excited agitators
taking up his words. Then an idea struck me. I was, as I told you, heartily sick of my task
of arrangement. Here seemed an opportunity.

'Look here,' I said,'you shall have it all to yourselves. I resign, I abdicate. You shall arrange
yourselves as you please, but be quick about it, and let there be as little bloodshed as possible'

With that there arose such a hubbub as was never before heard in a quiet book-room, not even
during that famous battle of the St. James's Library in 1697; and conspicuous among the noises
was a strange crowing sound as of young cocks, which I was at a loss to understand, till I
bethought me how Mentzelius, long ago, sitting in the quiet of his library, had heard the bookworm
'crow like a cock unto his mate.' On looking I saw that the insurgents had indeed pressed into
their service a certain politic body of bookworms as joyous heralds, whom I had never suspected
of inhabiting my books at all--though, indeed, such hidden creatures do crawl out of their
corners in times of upheaval.

It was long before I could disentangle individual voices from the wild chaos of strident theories
that surrounded me. But at last there was silence, as one bilious-looking vellum book, old
enough to have known better, had evidently caught the ear of the assembled multitudes; and
then I understood that the movement had already found its Robespierre. It was clear from his
words that the universal gospel of equality, so beautifully expatiated upon before the revolution,
had had reference only to those who were already on an equality of that low estate which fears
no fall. The only equality now offered to books above the rank of octavo was that of death,
which, philosophers have long assured us, makes all men equal, by a short and simple method.
There was but one other way--that the quartos should consent to be cut in two, and the folios
quartered; but that, alas! meant death no less, for that which alone is of worth in both books
and men, the soul, would be no more. So, as it seemed they must die either way, all the condemned
chose death before dishonour. Several distinguished folios who, in a quixotism of heart, had
flirted with the socialistic leaders when their schemes were but propaganda, and equality had
not yet been so rigorously defined, now bitterly repented their folly, and did their best in
heading a rally against their foes. That, however, was soon quelled, and but hastened their doom.

'To the guillotine with them!' cried the bilious little octavo, and then I saw that my tobacco-cutter
had been extemporised into the deadly engine.

But, hereupon, a voice of humour found hearing, that of a stout 32mo, evidently a philosopher.

'Why shed blood?' he said, 'I have a better plan. Stature is no mark of superiority, but usually
the reverse. The mind's the standard of the man. In the world of men the tallest and handsomest
are made into servants, and called flunkies, and these wait upon the small men, who have all
the money, which among men corresponds to brains among books. Why shouldn't we take a hint
from this custom, and turn these tall gaudy gentlemen into our servants, for which all their
gilt and fine clothes have already provided them with livery? Ho! Sirrah Folio, come and turn
my page!'

But this Lord Folio haughtily refused to do, and, consequently, being too stout to turn his
own pages, the little 32mo could say no more. His proposal, though it tickled a few, found
no great favour. It was generally agreed that humour had no place in the discussion of a serious
question. Another speaker advocated the retention of the condemned as ornaments of the state,
but he was very speedily overruled. Was not that the shallow excuse by which they had hung
on for ever so long? No, that was quite worn out.

The main question was further obstructed by many outbursts of individualism. Certain self-contained
books wished to be left to themselves, and have no part in the social scheme, unless in the
event of a return to monarchy, when, they intimated, they might be eligible for election. This,
one could see, was the secret hope of all the speakers; and you would have laughed could you
have heard what inflated opinions some of them had of their own importance--especially two
or three of the minor poets. Then, again, many sentimental demands, quite unforeseen, added
to the general anarchy. Collected editions, which had long groaned in the bondage of an arbitrary
relationship, saw an opportunity in the general overturn to break away from their sets and
join their natural fellows. Sex was naturally the most unruly element of all. Volumes that
had waited edition after edition for each other, yearning across the shelves, felt their time
had come at last, and leapt into each other's arms. It was with no avail that a distress minute
was passed by The Hundred Thousand Committee (a somewhat unworkable body) that henceforth sex
was to be a function exercised absolutely for the good of the state: tattered poets were to
be seen wildly proclaiming a different doctrine.

Such eccentric attachments as a volume of The Essays of Elia for Margaret, Duchess of Newcastle,
were especially troublesome; while the explosion caused by the accidental contact of that same
unruly Elia with a modern reprint of The Anatomy of Melancholy, which (he said) he never could
tolerate, proved the last straw to the Committee of the Hundred Thousand, who immediately resigned
their offices in anger and despair. Thereupon, tenfold chaos once more returning, I thought
it time to interfere. The Doctrine of Equality was evidently a failure--among books, at any
rate. So I savagely fell to, and threw the books back again into their immemorial places, and
the cause of freedom in 'The City of Books' sleeps for another hundred editions.

Only I placed Elia next to the Duchess, because he was a human fellow, and had no theories.

THE PHILOSOPHY OF 'LIMITED EDITIONS'

Why do the heathen so furiously rage against limited issues, large-papers, first editions,
and the rest? For there is certainly more to be said for than against them. Broadly speaking,
all such 'fads' are worthy of being encouraged, because they maintain, in some measure, the
expiring dignity of letters, the mystery of books. Day by day the wonderfulness of life is
becoming lost to us. The sanctities of religion are defiled, the 'fairy tales' of science have
become commonplaces. Christian mysteries are debased in the streets to the sound of drum and
trumpet, and the sensitive ear of the telephone is but a servile drudge 'twixt speculative
bacon merchants. And Books!--those miraculous memories of high thoughts and golden moods; those
magical shells tremulous with the secrets of the ocean of life; those love-letters that pass
from hand to hand of a thousand lovers that never meet; those honeycombs of dreams; those orchards
of knowledge; those still-beating hearts of the noble dead; those mysterious signals that beckon
along the darksome pathways of the past; voices through which the myriad lispings of the earth
find perfect speech; oracles through which its mysteries call like voices in moonlit woods;
prisms of beauty; urns stored with all the sweets of all the summers of time; immortal nightingales
that sing for ever to the rose of life: Books, Bibles--ah me! what have ye become to-day!

What, indeed, has become of that mystery of the Printed Word, of which Carlyle so movingly
wrote? It has gone, it is to be feared, with those Memnonian mornings we sleep through with
so determined snore, those ancient mysteries of night we forget beneath the mimic firmament
of the music-hall.

Only in the lamplit closet of the bookman, the fanatic of first and fine editions, is it remembered
and revered. To him alone of an Americanised, 'pirated-edition' reading world, the book remains
the sacred thing it is. Therefore, he would not have it degraded by, so to say, an indiscriminate
breeding, such as has also made the children of men cheap and vulgar to each other. We pity
the desert rose that is born to unappreciated beauty, the unset gem that glitters on no woman's
hand; but what of the book that eats its heart out in the threepenny box, the remainders that
are sold ignominiously in job lots by ignorant auctioneers? Have we no feeling for them?

Over-production, in both men and shirts, is the evil of the day. The world has neither enough
food, nor enough love, for the young that are born into it. We have more mouths than we can
fill, and more books than we can buy. Well, the publisher and collector of limited editions
aim, in their small corner, to set a limit to this careless procreation. They are literary
Malthusians. The ideal world would be that in which there should be at least one lover for
each woman. In the higher life of books the ideal is similar. No book should be brought into
the world which is not sure of love and lodging on some comfortable shelf. If writers and publishers
only gave a thought to what they are doing when they generate such large families of books,
careless as the salmon with its million young, we should have no such sad alms-houses of learning
as Booksellers' Row, no such melancholy distress-sales of noble authors as remainder auctions.
A good book is beyond price; and it is far easier to under than over sell it. The words of
the modern minor poet are as rubies, and what if his sets bring a hundred guineas?--it is more
as it should be, than that any sacrilegious hand should fumble them for threepence. It recalls
that golden age of which Mr. Dobson has sung, when--

        '... a book was still a Book,
    Where a wistful man might look,
    Finding something through the whole
    Beating--like a human soul';

days when for one small gilded manuscript men would willingly exchange broad manors, with pasture--lands,
chases, and blowing woodlands; days when kings would send anxious embassies across the sea,
burdened with rich gifts to abbot and prior, if haply gold might purchase a single poet's book.

But, says the scoffer, these limited editions and so forth foster the vile passions of competition.
Well, and if they do? Is it not meet that men should strive together for such possessions?
We compete for the allotments of shares in American-meat companies, we outbid each other for
tickets 'to view the Royal procession,' we buffet at the gate of the football field, and enter
into many another of the ignoble rivalries of peace; and are not books worth a scrimmage?--books
that are all those wonderful things so poetically set forth in a preceding paragraph! Lightly
earned, lightly spurned, is the sense, if not the exact phrasing, of an old proverb. There
is no telling how we should value many of our possessions if they were more arduously come
by: our relatives, our husbands and wives, our presentation poetry from the unpoetical, our
invitation-cards to one-man shows in Bond Street, the auto-photographs of great actors, the
flatteries of the unimportant, the attentions of the embarrassing: how might we not value all
such treasures, if they were, so to say, restricted to a limited issue, and guaranteed 'not
to be reprinted'--'plates destroyed and type distributed.'

Indeed, all nature is on the side of limited editions. Make a thing cheap, she cries from every
spring hedgerow, and no one values it. When do we find the hawthorn, with its breath sweet
as a milch-cow's; or the wild rose, with its exquisite attar and its petals of hollowed pearl--when
do we find these decking the tables of the great? or the purple bilberry, or the boot-bright
blackberry in the entremets thereof? Think what that 'common dog-rose' would bring in a limited
edition! And new milk from the cow, or water from the well! Where would champagne be if those
intoxicants were restricted by expensive licence, and sold in gilded bottles? What would you
not pay for a ticket to see the moon rise, if nature had not improvidently made it a free entertainment;
and who could afford to buy a seat at Covent Garden if Sir Augustus Harris should suddenly
become sole impresario of the nightingale?

Yes, 'from scarped cliff and quarried stone,' Nature cries, 'Limit the Edition! Distribute
the type!'--though in her capacity as the great publisher she has been all too prodigal of
her issues, and ruinously guilty of innumerable remainders. In fact, it is by her warning rather
than by her example that we must be guided in this matter. Let us not vulgarise our books,
as she has done her stars and flowers. Let us, if need be, make our editions smaller and smaller,
our prices increasingly 'prohibitive,' rather than that we should forget the wonder and beauty
of printed dream and thought, and treat our books as somewhat less valuable than wayside weeds.

A PLEA FOR THE OLD PLAYGOER

He's a nuisance, of course. But to see only that side of him is to think, as the shepherd boy
piped, 'as though' you will 'never grow old.' Does he never appeal to you with any more human
significance, a significance tearful and uncomfortably symbolic? Or are you so entirely that
tailor's fraction of manhood, the fin de siècle type, that your ninth part does not include
a heart and the lachrymal gland?

You suspect him at once as you squeeze past his legs to your stall, for he cannot quite conceal
the hissing twinge of gout; and you are hardly seated ere you are quite sure that a long night
of living for others is before you.

'You hardly would think it, perhaps,' he begins, 'but I saw Charles Young play the part--yes,
in 1824.'

If you are young and innocent, you think--'What an interesting old gentleman!' and you have
vague ideas of pumping him for reminiscences to turn into copy. Poor boy, you soon find that
there is no need of pumping on your part. He is entirely self-acting, and the wells of his
autobiography are as deep as the foundations of the world.

If you are more experienced, you make a quick frantic effort to escape; you try to nip the
bud of his talk with a frosty 'Indeed!' and edge away, calling upon your programme to cover
you. You never so much as turn the sixteenth part of an eye in his direction, for even as the
oyster-man, should the poor mollusc heave the faintest sigh, is inside with his knife in the
twinkling of a star; even as a beetle has but to think of moving its tiniest leg for the bird
to swoop upon him,--even so will the least muscular interest in your neighbour give you bound
hand and foot into his power.

But really and truly escape is hopeless. You are beyond the reach of any salvage agency whatsoever.
Better make up your mind to be absolutely rude or absolutely kind: and the man who can find
in his heart to be the former must have meeting eyebrows, and will sooner or later be found
canonised in wax at Madame Tussaud's. To be the latter, however, is by no means easy. It is
one of the most poignant forms of self-sacrifice attained by the race. In that, at least, you
have some wintry consolation; and the imaginative vignette of yourself wearing the martyr's
crown is a pretty piece of sacred art.

If you wished to make a bag of old playgoers, or meditated a sort of Bartholomew's Eve, a revival
of Hamlet would, of course, be the occasion you would select for your purpose: for the old
playgoer, so to speak, collects Hamlets. At a first night of Hamlet every sixth stall-holder
is a Dr. Doran up to date, his mind a portfolio of old prints.

That is why a perambulation of the stalls is as perilous as to pick one's way through hot ploughshares.
You can hardly hope always to pass through unscathed. You are as sure some night to find yourself
seated beside him, as you will some day be called to serve on the jury. And then--

    'O limèd soul, that, struggling to be free,
     Art more engaged!'

However, 'sudden the worst turns best to the brave,' and 'there is much music' in this old
fellow if only you have the humanity to listen.

To begin with, he has probably a distinguished face, with a bunch of vigorous curly hair, white
as hawthorn. He has a manner, too. Suppose you try and enter into his soul for a moment. It
does us good to get outside ourselves for a while, and this old man's soul is a palace of memory.
Those lines that, may be, have been familiar to you for sixteen years, have been familiar to
him for sixty. That is why he knows them off so well, why he repeats them under his breath--Look
at his face!--like a Methodist praying, anticipating the actor in all the fine speeches. Do
look at his face! How it shines, as the golden passages come treading along. How his head moves
in an ecstasy of remembrance, in which there is a whole world of tears. How he half turns to
you with a wistful appeal to feel what he is feeling: an appeal that might kindle a clod. It
is the old wine laughing to itself within the old bottle.

And, one thing you will notice, it is the poetry that moves him: the great metaphor, the sonorous
cadence, the honeysuckle fancy. He belongs to an age that had an instinct for beauty, and loved
style--an age that, in the words of a modern wit, had not grown all nose with intellect, an
age that went to the theatre to dream, not to dissect.

For you there may be here and there a flower of remembrance stuck within the leaves of the
play, but for him it is stained through with the sweets of sixty springs. His youth lies buried
within it like a thousand violets.

Practically he is Death at the play. To you there is but one ghost in Hamlet, to him there
are fifty, and they all dance like shadows behind 'the new Hamlet,' and even sit about the stalls.

If your love be with you, forbear to press her hand in the love-scenes, or, at least, don't
let the old man see you: because he used to punctuate those very passages he is muttering in
just the same way--sixty years ago, when she whose angel face he will kiss no more, unless
it be in the heavenly fields, sat like a flower at his side. Poor old fellow, can you be selfish
to him? Can you say, 'These tedious old fools!' Fool thyself, this night shall thy youth be
required of thee.

You might think of this next time you drop across the old playgoer. It was natural in Hamlet
to swear at Polonius--who, you will remember, was an old playgoer himself--but, being a gentleman,
it was natural in him, too, to recall the first player with, 'Follow that lord; but look you
mock him not!'

THE MEASURE OF A MAN

I sometimes grow melancholy with the thought that, though I wear trousers and shave once a
day, I am not, properly speaking, a Man. Surely it is from no failure of goodwill, no lack
of prayerful striving towards that noble estate: for if there is one spectacle in this moving
phantasmagoria of life that I love to carry within my eye, it is the figure of a true man.
The mere idea of a true man stirs one's heart like a trumpet. Therefore, this doubt I am confiding
is all the more dreary. Naturally, I feel it most keenly in the company of my fellows, each
one of whom seems to carry the victorious badge of manhood, as though to cry shame upon me.
They make me shrink into myself, make me feel that I am but an impostor in their midst. Indeed,
in that sensitiveness of mine you have the starting-point of my unmanliness. Look at that noble
fellow there. He is six-foot odd in his stockings, straight, stalwart, and confident. His face
is broad and strong, his close-cropped head is firm and proud on his shoulders--firm and proud
as a young bull's. It is a head made, indeed, rather to butt than to think with; it is visited
with no effeminacy of thought or dream. It has another striking quality: it is hardly distinguishable
from any other head in the room--for I am in an assemblage of true men all, a glorious herd
of young John Bulls. All have the same strong jaws, the same powerful low foreheads. Noble
fellows! Any one of them could send me to eternity with the wind of his fist.

And, most of all, is their manhood brought home to me, with a sickening sense of inferiority,
in their voices. What a leonine authority in the roar of their opinions! Their words strike
the air firm as the tread of lions. They are not teased with fine distinctions, possibilities
of misconception, or the perils of afterthought. Their talk is of the absolute, their opinions
wear the primary colours, and dream not of 'art shades.' Never have they been wrong in their
lives, never shall they be wrong in the time to come. Never have they been known to conjecture
that another may, after all, be wiser than they, handsomer, stronger, or more fortunate. They
would kill a man rather than admit a mistake. Noble fellows! And I? Do you wonder that I blush
in my corner as I gaze upon them, strive to smooth my hair into the appearance of a manly flatness,
strive to set my face hard and feign it knowing, strive to elevate my voice to the dogmatic
note, strive to cast out from my mind all those evil spirits of proportion?

Can it be possible that any one of my readers has ever been in a like case? Is there hope for
us, my brother? You have, I perceive, a fine, expressive, sensitive countenance. That is, indeed,
against you in this race for manhood. It is true that Apollo passed for a man--but that was
long ago, and not in Britain. You have a pleasant, sympathetic voice. An excellent thing in
woman. But you, my friend,--break it, I beseech you. Coarsen it with raw spirits and rawer
opinions; and set that face of thine with hog's bristles, plant a shoe-brush on thy upper lip,
and send thy head to the turner of billiard balls. Else come not nigh me, for, 'fore Heaven,
I love a man!

Sometimes, however, I am inclined to a more comfortable consideration of this great question--for
it is one of my weaknesses to be positive on few matters. But to-day I taunted my soul with
its unmanliness till it rose in rebellion against me. 'Poor-spirited creature,' I said, 'where
is thy valour? When a fool has struck thee I have seen thee pass on without a word, not so
much as a momentary knitting of thy fist When ignorance has waxed proud, and put thee to the
mock, thou hast sat meek, and uttered never a word. It must needs be thou art pigeon-livered
and lack gall! There is not in thee the swagger, the rustle, the braggadocio of a true swashbuckler
manhood. Out on thee!'

And my soul took the blows in patience.

'Hast thou any courage hid in any crevice of thee?' I continued my taunt. And suddenly my soul
answered with a firm quiet voice: 'Try me!'

Then said I, 'Coward as thou art, fearful of thy precious skin, darest thou strike a blow for
the weak against his oppressor, darest thou meet the strong tyrant in the way?'

And thereon I was startled, for my soul suddenly sprang up within me, and, lo! it neighed like
a war-horse for the battle.

'Ah!' I continued, 'but couldst thou fight against the enemy of thy land? Surely thy valour
would melt at the clash of swords and the voice of the drum?'

And the answer of my soul was like the march of armed men.

Then said I softly, for I was touched by this unwonted valour of my soul, 'Soul! wouldst thou
die for thy friend?'

And the voice of my soul came sweet as the sound of bells at evening. It seemed, indeed, as
though it could dream of naught sweeter than to die for one's friend.

This colloquy of inner and outer set me further reflecting. Can it be that this manhood is,
after all, rather a quality of the spirit than of the body; that it is to be sought rather
in the stout heart than in the strong arm; that big words and ready blows may, like a display
of bunting, betoken no true loyalty, and be but the gaudy sign to a sorry inn? Dr. Watts, it
may be remembered, declared the mind to be the standard of the man. As he was the author of
a book on 'The Human Mind,' envious persons may meanly conceive that his statement was but
a subtly-disguised advertisement of his literary wares.

    'Were I so tall to reach the Pole,
      Or grasp the ocean in my span,
    I must be measured by my soul:
      The mind's the standard of the man.'

The fact of Dr. Watts being also a man of low stature does not affect the truth or untruth
of this fine verse, which may serve to comfort many. One may assume that it was Jack, and not
the giant, whom we would need to describe as the true man of the two; and one seems to have
heard of some 'fine,' 'manly' fellows, darlings of the football field and the American bar,
whose actions somehow have not altogether justified those epithets, or, at any rate, certain
readings of them. Theirs is a manhood, one fancies, that is given to shine more at race-meetings
and in hotel parlours than at home--revealed to the barmaid, and strangely hidden from the
wife, who, indeed, has less opportunities for perceiving it.

This kind of manhood is, perhaps, rather a fashion than a personal quality: a way of carrying
the stick, of wearing, or not wearing, the hair; it resides in the twirl of the moustache,
or the cut of the trouser; you must seek it in the quality of the boot and the shape of the
hat rather than in the actions of the wearer.

Take that matter of the hair. When next the street-boy sorrowfully exclaims on your passing
that 'it's no wonder the barbers all 'list for soldiers,' or some puny idiot at your club--a
lilliputian model of popular 'manhood'--sniggers to his friend behind his coffee as you come
in: call to mind pictures of certain brave 'tailed men' of old, at the winking of whose eyelid
your tiny club 'man' would have expired on the instant. Threaten him with a Viking. Show him
in a vision a band of blue-eyed pirates, with their wild hair flying in the breeze, as they
sternly hasten across the Northern Sea. Summon Godiva's lord, 'his beard a yard before him,
and his hair a yard behind.' Call up the brave picture of Rupert's love-locked Cavaliers, as
their glittering column hurls like a bolt of heaven to the charge, or Nelson's pig-tailed sailors
in Trafalgar's Bay. But, before you have gone half-way through your panorama, that club-mannikin
will have hastily departed, leaving his coffee half-drunk, and you shall find him airing his
manhood in the security of the billiard-room.

Yes, for us who are denied the admiration of the billiard-marker; denied the devotion of the
barmaid (with charming paradox so-called); for us who make poor braggarts, and often prefer
to surrender rather than to elbow for our rights; for us who deliver our opinions with mean-spirited
diffidence, and are men of quiet voices and ways: for us there is hope. It may be that to love
one's neighbour is also a part of manhood, to suffer quietly for another as true a piece of
bravery as to fell him for a careless word; it may be that purity, constancy, and reverence
are as sure criteria of manhood as their opposites. It may be, I say; but be certain that a
strong beard, a harsh voice, and a bull-dog physiognomy are surer still.

THE BLESSEDNESS OF WOMAN

Have you ever remarked as a curious thing that, whereas every day we hear women sighing because
they have not been born men, you never hear a sigh blowing in the other direction? I only know
one man who had the courage to say that he would not mind exchanging into the female infantry,
and it may have been affectation on his part. At any rate, he blushed deeply at the avowal,
and his friends look askance at him ever since. Of course, the obvious answer of the self-satisfied
male is that he is the lord of creation, that his is the better part which shall not be taken
from him. Yet this does not prevent his telling his wife sometimes, when oppressed with the
cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches, that 'it is nice to be her. Nothing to
worry her all day long. No responsibility.' For in his primitive vision of female existence,
his wife languidly presides for ever at an eternal five-o'clock tea. And it is not in the province
of this article to turn to him the seamy side of that charming picture. Rather is it our mission
to convince him of the substantial truth of his intuition. He is quite right. It is 'nice to
be her.' And if men had a little more common-sense in their consequential skulls, instead of
striving to resist the woman's invasion of their immemorial responsibilities and worries, they
would joyfully abdicate them--and skip home to Nirvâna and afternoon tea.

Foolish women! To want of your own free will to put yourselves in painful harness; to take
the bit of servitude between your rose-leaf lips; to fight day-long in the reeking arena of
bacon merchants; to settle accounts instead of merely incurring them; to be confined in Stygian
city-blocks instead of silken bedchambers; to rise with the sparrow and leave by the early
morning train. What fatuity! Some day, when woman has had her way and man has ceased to have
his will, she will see of the travail of her soul and be bitterly dissatisfied; for, unless
man is a greater fool than he looks, she shall demand back her petticoats in vain.

For what is the lot of woman? The first superficial fact about a woman is, of course, her beauty.
Secondly, as the leaves about a rose, comes her dress. To be beautiful and to wear pretty things--these
are two of the obvious privileges of woman. To be a living rose, with bosom of gold and petals
of lace, a rose each passer-by longs to pluck from its husband-stem, but dare not for fear
of the husband-thorns. To be privileged to play Narcissus all day long with your mirror, to
love yourself so much that you kiss the cold reflection, yet fear not to drown. To reveal yourself
to yourself in a thousand lovely poses, and bird-like poises of the head. To kneel to yourself
in adoration, to laugh and nod and beckon to yourself with your own smiles and dimples, to
yearn in hopeless passion for your own loveliness. To finger silken garments, linings to the
casket of your beauty, never seen of men, to draw on stiff embroidered gowns, to deck your
hands with glittering jewels, and your wrists with bands of gold--and then to sail forth from
your boudoir like the moon from a cloud, regally confident of public worship; to be at once
poet and poem, painter and painted: does not this belong to the lot of woman?

But it was of nobler privileges than these that the candidate for womanhood of whom I have
spoken was thinking. It is fit that we skim the surface before we dive into the deeps--especially
so attractive a surface as woman's. He was, doubtless, thinking less of woman as a home comfort
or a beauty, and much more of her as she once used to be among our far-off sires, Sibyl and
Priestess. Is it but an insular fancy to suppose that Englishmen, beyond any other race, still
retain the most living faith in the sanctity of womanhood? and, if so, can it be doubted that
it is an inheritance from those wild child-hearted Vikings, who were first among the peoples
of Europe to conceive woman as the chosen vessel of the divine? And how wittily true, by the
way, how slily significant, was both the Norse and the Greek conception of the ruling destinies
of man, the Norns and the Fates, as women!

To speak with authority, one should, doubtless, first sprout petticoats; and, meanwhile, one
must rest content with asking the intelligent women of our acquaintance--whether man inspires
them with anything like the feelings of reverential adoration, the sense of a being holy and
supernal, with which woman undoubtedly inspires man. He is, of course, their god, but a god
of the Greek pattern, with no little of the familiarising alloy of earth in his composition.
He is strong, and swift, and splendid--but seems he holy? Is he angel as well as god? Does
the dream of him rise silvery in the imagination of woman? Is he a star to lift her up to heaven
with pure importunate beam? I seem to hear the nightingale-laughter of women for answer. Man
neither is, nor would they have him, any of these things.

But though some men, by a fortunate admixture of woman silver in their masculine clay, may
be even these, there is one sacred thing no man can ever be, a privilege by which nature would
seem to have put beyond doubt the divinity of woman: a mother. It is true that it is within
his reach to be a father; but what is 'paternity' compared with motherhood? The very word wears
a droll face, as though accustomed to banter. Let us venture on the bull: that, though it be
possible for most men to be fathers, no man can ever be a mother. Maybe a recondite intention
of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception was the accentuation of the fact that man's share
in the sacred mystery of birth is so small and woman's so great, that the birth of a child
is truly a mysterious traffic between divine powers of nature and her miraculous womb--mystic
visitations of radiant forces hidden eternally from the knowledge of man.

We stand in wonder before the magical germinating properties of a clod of earth. A grass-seed
and a thimbleful of soil set all the sciences at nought. Neither Betty or her Sister were yet of
Age, but the Younger far from it, and continued under such Guardians, as the Elder recommended,
and had chosen for herself. It was natural to think they should chiefly be employed in ordering
the Affairs of Blanch, and be less attentive to benefit the other. Accordingly, from time to
time, they sent Proxies, to let Leases, keep her Courts, and force Possession, where the Tenants
held over. Little, however, was done for Betty, though they put her Sister to great Charges;
nor did she thrive in the World to any Purpose,'till she came under the Care of a good orderly
Gentlewoman, who was also Guardian to Blanch, a notable Manager, and very affectionate to her Wards,
understood their Business to a hair, and was never to be imposed on or over-reached. Every thing
she put her hand to prospered, and every thing against her miscarried.

When she first looked into Betty's Affairs, she found them in a manner
desperate; her small Revenues had been embezzled by Agents, Farms
set to insolvent Tenants, double Leases made out, huge Fines taken
in Hand and sunk in their own Pockets.

She was preyed upon by Vagabonds and Outlaws; and, to compleat her
Misfortunes, a Foreign Count fell in love with her, an odious Monster
and braggadocio Huffer. He swore bitterly no one else should have
her, and to support his Claim, brought in his Pocket, a pretended
Licence from the Spiritual Court, and a Pack of outlandish Goths along
with him, to take Possession of her Freehold, and break down her
Gates.

But her Sister generously came in to her Assistance, repelled Force by Force, and rescued
her from a Tyrant Ravisher, built Houses for herself, and Fences for the Tenants, and left
some of her own People with her to instruct them in Trades and Husbandry. She was then, it might be
thought, in a Way of making herself respected, both by her own and her Sister's Tenants, and not stand
in need of any more Supplies from them; and if the good Woman, her guardian, had lived to bring
Matters to any Kind of Establishment, Things had been better. But she unfortunately died, more,
however, to her Sister's Disadvantage than hers; for the Guardian
had chalked out a Track of Proceeding for Betty, which she could hardly
miss to follow.

The
Elder, however, was inconsolable for the Loss of her Guardian, and resolved, for the future, to manage
her Concerns by the Assistance of a Steward, a Sort of a Cousin to her Guardian deceased, but no way
allied to her, in Worth or Understanding. He minded nothing but Hunting and Puppet-shews, Feasts and Revels;
and though the uncomeliest of an ill-favoured Race, spent his Lady's Money in adorning his own
Person, instead of fencing her Grounds.

He was laughed at by one half of the Neighbours, and despised and gulled by the other. In a Word,
he was every Way unfit for the Charge. His Son succeeded to the Place; he was a grave-looking, orderly
young Man, main religious, and skilled in the Customs of the Manor. Both the Sisters had great Hopes
their Affairs would thrive under his Management. Betty's, indeed, went on well for a while; but,
in the End, both of them had Cause to complain, and curse the Day they had bethought them of
employing a Steward in their Concerns. He was not so great a Fool as his Father; yet nothing
he put his Hand to succeeded.

He was bubbled by every Neighbour he dealt with, and choused by every
Tenant he trusted. His Word could never be relied on, as he had always
some quibble to evade it.

His Wife made him hated by the Tenants; and for a finishing Stroke to his undoing, and compleat
the Ruin of his Wards, he pretended the Steward had a Right to hold Courts without Juries, and by
his own Authority levy Money for Repairs. The Tenants would not endure this Invasion on their
Rights, but stoutly opposed it; and, after a hard Struggle, got the better, turned him out of the
Stewardship, and some of them finding him one Day at a why-not, tied him to a Rope, and hanged
him in a Frolick. The Office of a Steward was now abolished for a Time, and the elder Sister resolved
to take her Affairs entirely into her own Hands, and have neither Steward or Guardian for the future. The
Condition, indeed, of both was deplorable. There had been nothing during the late Quarrel, but
Riot and Plunder, Rents unpaid, and Soldiers quartered at Discretion; so that, in order to retrieve
their Affairs, it seemed necessary to put things on a new Footing, and trust none but themselves
to manage them.



How long are we to retain the pernicious fallacy that sacredness is a quality inhering not
in the sacred object itself, but in the superstitious 'decencies' that swaddle it, or that
we best reverence such sacred object by a prurient prudish conspiracy of silence concerning it?

Then there is, it would also appear, a particular indignity, from the new virago's point of
view, in the assumption that a woman's beauty is one of her great missions, or the supposition
that she takes any such pride in it herself as man has from time immemorial supposed. No sensible
woman, we have been indignantly assured, ever plays at Narcissus with her mirror. That all
women find such pleasure in their reflections no one would think of saying. How could they,
poor things? One is quite ready to admit that probably our virago looks in her glass as seldom
as possible. But all sensible women that are beautiful as well should take joy in their own
charms, if they have any feelings of gratitude towards the supernal powers which might have
made them--well, more advanced than beautiful, and given them a head full of cheap philosophy
instead of a transfiguring head of hair.

No one wants a woman to be silly and vain about her beauty. But vanity and conceit are qualities
that exist in people quite independently of their gifts and graces. The ugly and stupid are
perhaps more often conceited than the beautiful or the clever,--vain, it would appear, of their
very ugliness and stupidity. Besides, is it any worse for a woman to be vain of her looks than
of her brains?--and the advanced woman is without doubt most inordinately vain of those. Of
the two, so far as they are at present developed, is there any doubt that the woman with beauty
is better off than the woman with brains? In some few hundred years, maybe, the brain of woman
will be a joy to herself and the world: when she has got more used to its possession, and familiar
with the fruitful control of it. At present, however, it is merely a discomfort, not to say
a danger, to herself and every one else--a tiresome engine for the pedantic assimilation of
German and the higher mathematics. And it may well happen--horrid prophecy--that when that
brain of woman has come to its perfection, the flower of its meditation will be to realise
the significance, the sacredness, of the Simple Woman. It is in its apprehension of the mystery
of simplicity that the brain of man, at present, is superior to that of woman.

Young brain delights in the complex, old in the simple. Woman's love of the complex has been
illustrated abundantly during the last few years, in her enthusiasm for certain great imperfect
writers, who have been able to stir up the mud in the fountain of life (doubtless, to medicinal
ends) but unable to bring it clear again. An eternal enigma herself, woman is eternally in
love with enigmas. Like a child, she loves any one who will show her the 'works' of existence,
and she is still in that inquisitive stage when one imagines that the inside of a doll will
afford explanation of its fascinating exterior. It is no use telling her that analysis can
never explain the mystery of synthesis. Like an American humourist, she still goes on wanting
't'know.'

Even more than man, she exaggerates the value of the articulate, the organised. She has always
been in love with 'accomplishments,' and she loves natures that are minted into current coin
of ready gifts and graces. She cares more for the names of things than for the things themselves.
Of things without names she is impatient. Talkative as she is said to be, and in so many modern
languages, she knows not yet how to talk with Silence--unless she be the inspired Simple Woman--for
to talk with Silence is to apprehend the mystic meanings of simplicity. For this reason, mystics
are more often found among men than women--a fact on which the Pioneer Club is at liberty to
congratulate itself. What advanced woman understands that saying of Paracelsus: 'who tastes
a crust of bread tastes the heavens and all the stars.' Else would she understand also that
the 'humblest' ministrations of life, those nearest to nature, are the profoundest in their
significance: that it means as much to bake a loaf as to write a book, and that to watch over
the sleep of a child is a liberal education--nay, an initiation granted only to mothers and
those meek to whom mysteries are revealed. It has always been to the simple woman that the
angel has appeared--to Mary of Bethany, to Joan of Arc. Is it impious to infer that the Angel
Gabriel himself dreads a blue-stocking? What chance indeed would he have with our modern viragoes
of the brain, the mighty daughters of the pen?

THE EYE OF THE BEHOLDER

Other people's poetry--I don't mean their published verse, but their absurdly romantic view
of unromantic objects--is terribly hard to translate. It seldom escapes being turned into prose.
It must have happened to you now and again to have had the photograph of your friend's beloved
produced for your inspection and opinion. It is a terrible moment. If she does happen to be
a really pretty girl--heavens! what a relief. You praise her with almost hysterical gratitude.
But if, as is far more likely, her beauty proves to be of that kind which exists only in the
eyes of a single beholder, what a plight is yours! How you strive to look as if she were a
new Helen, and how hopelessly unconvincing is your weary expression--as unconvincing as one's
expression when, having weakly pretended acquaintance with a strange author, we feign ecstatic
recognition of some passage or episode quoted by his ruthless admirer. There is this hope in
the case of the photograph: that its amorous possessor will probably be incapable of imagining
any one insensitive to such a Golconda of charms, and you have always in your power the revenge
of showing him your own sacred graven image.

Is it not curious that the very follies we delight in for ourselves should seem so stupid,
so absolutely vulgar, when practised by others? The last illusion to forsake a man is the absolute
belief in his own refinement. 

New Florence was not flooded, though some of the people left the place on Friday night and went
up on Squirrel Hill.

Scenes at the River.

I went down to the river once, and that was enough, as I knew Andrew would not like me to see the
sorrow, for which there was no help. I went just after the bridge fell, saw Centreville flooded
and the people make a dash for the mountain. Yesterday two hundred and three bodies were taken
from the river near here, and yet every train takes away more. The freight cars have taken nothing
but human freight, and wagon load after wagon load of dead bodies have been right in front
of the house. There was a child about Nellie's age, with light hair, dead in the wagon, with her
hands clasped, saying her prayers, and her blue eyes staring wide open. By her side lay a man with
a pipe in his mouth, naked children, and a woman with a baby at her breast. Oh, the terror
on their faces. Two women and three men were rescued here, and a German family of mother,
four children and father. I had them all on my hands to look after; no one could make them understand,
and how I ever managed it I don't know, but I did.

They lost two children and their home, but had a little money and were going to his brother's,
at Hazleton. They got here in the night and left at noon, and it would have done your heart
good to see them eat. One was a baby five weeks old.

Help Needed.

Now,
mother, I want you to go around among the family and get me everything
in the way of clothes you possibly can, and get Uncle Clem to express
them to me. I should also like money, and as much as you can get can
be used. I am pretty well cleaned out of everything, as all the cattle
and stock have been lost and nothing can be bought here, and all I
have in the way of provisions is some preserves, chocolate, coffee,
olives and crackers.
Is he so sentimentally devoted to his 'old Dutch'? If you answer the question in the negative,
you are in this predicament: all the love and 'the fine feelings' remain with the infinitesimal
residuum of the cultured and professionally 'refined.' Does that residuum actually incarnate
all the love, devotion, honour, and other noble qualities in man? One need hardly trouble to
answer the absurd question. Evidently behind the oranges, and the uncouth animal manners, we
should find souls much like our own refined essences, had we the seeing sympathetic eye. All
depends on the eye of the beholder.

Among the majority of literary and artistic people of late that eye of the beholder has been
a very cynical supercilious eye. Never was such a bitter cruel war waged against the poor bourgeois.
The lack of humanity in recent art and literature is infinitely depressing. Doubtless, it is
the outcome of a so-called 'realism,' which dares to pretend that the truth about life is to
be found on its grimy pock-marked surface. Over against the many robust developments of democracy,
and doubtless inspired by them, is a marked spread of the aristocratic spirit--selfish, heartless,
subtle, of mere physical 'refinement'; a spirit, too, all the more inhuman because it is for
the most part not tempered by any intercourse with homely dependants, as in the feudal aristocracy.
It would seem to be the product of 'the higher education,' a university priggishness, poor
as proud. It is the deadliest spirit abroad; but, of course, though it may poison life and
especially art for a while, the great laughing democracy will in good time dispose of it as
Hercules might crush a wasp.

This is the spirit that draws up its skirts and sneers to itself at poor 'old bodies' in omnibuses,
because, forsooth, they are stout, and out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh.
One thinks of Falstaff's plaintive 'If to be fat is to be hated!' At displays of natural feelings
of any sort this comfortless evil spirit ever curls the lip. Inhabiting modern young ladies,
it is especially superior to the maternal instinct, and cringes from a baby in a railway carriage
as from an adder. At the dropping of an 'h' it shrinks as though the weighty letter had fallen
upon its great toe, and it will forgive anything rather than a provincial accent. It lives
entirely in the surfaces of things, and, as the surface of life is frequently rough and prickly,
it is frequently uncomfortable. At such times it peevishly darts out its little sting, like
a young snake angry with a farmer's boot. It is amusing to watch it venting its spleen in papers
the bourgeois never read, in pictures they don't trouble to understand. John Bull's indifference
to the 'new' criticism is one of the most pleasing features of the time. Probably he has not
yet heard a syllable of it, and, if he should hear, he would probably waive it aside with,
'I have something more to think of than these megrims.' And so he has. We can't starve, as we
have the chickens. I got the last meat from the butcher's yesterday, and he said he didn't expect
to have any more for a week, so I told Uncle Clem I would not mind having two hams from Pittsburgh,
and was very grateful for his telegram. I telegraphed him in the morning; also, Uncle White
at Germantown, so that they might know I was all right, but from Auntie's telegram I judge Uncle
Clem's telegrams were the only ones that got through. We should lose Leonardo and Titian, Velasquez and Rembrandt,
and a great host of modern precious persons, but the stars and the great trees, the noble sculptured
hills, the golden-dotted meadows, the airy sailing clouds, and all the regal pageantry of the
seasons, would still be ours; and an almond-tree in flower would replace the National Gallery.

Yes, surely the true way of contemplating these undistinguished masses of humanity, this 'h'-dropping,
garlic-eating, child-begetting bourgeois, is Shakespeare's, Dickens', Whitman's way--through
the eye of a gentle sympathetic beholder--one who understands Nature's trick of hiding her
most precious things beneath rough husks and in rank and bearded envelopes--and not through
the eye-glass of the new critic.

For these undistinguished people are, after all, alive as their critics are not. They are,
indeed, the only people who may properly be said to be alive, dreaming and building while the
superior person stands by cogitating sarcasms on their swink'd and dusty appearances. More
of the true spirit of romantic existence goes to the opening of a little grocer's shop in a
back street in Whitechapel than to all the fine marriages at St. George's, Hanover Square,
in a year. But, of course, all depends on the eye of the beholder.

TRANSFERABLE LIVES

I sometimes have a fancy to speculate how, supposing the matter still undecided, I would like
to spend my life. Often I feel how good it would be to give it in service to one of my six
dear friends: just to offer it to them as so much capital, for whatever it may be worth. In
pondering the fancy, I need hardly say that I do not assess myself at any extravagant value.
I but venture to think that the devotion of one human creature, however humble, throughout
a lifetime, is not a despicable offering. To use me as they would, to fetch and carry with
me, to draw on me for whatever force resides in me, as they would on a bank account, to the
last penny, to use my brains for their plans, my heart for their love, my blood for added length
of days: and thus be so much the more true in their love, the more prosperous in their business,
the more buoyant in their health--by the addition of me.

But then embarrassment comes upon me. Which of my friends do I love the most? To whose account
of the six would I fain be credited? I noticed one of them withering on the stalk on my way
to town this morning. She was, I surmised, nearly twenty-eight, she carried a roll of music,
and I had a strong impression that she was the sole support of an invalid mother. I could hardly
resist suggesting to one of my men companions what a good wife she was longing to make, what
a Sleeping Beauty she was, waiting for the marital kiss that would set all the sweet bells
of her nature a-chime. I had the greatest difficulty in preventing myself from leaning over
to her, and putting it to her in this way--

'Excuse me, madam, but I love you. Will you be my wife? I am just turning thirty. I have so
much a year, a comfortable little home, and probably another thirty years of life to spend. The
Sabbath is wholly devoted to the church service, to prayer, reading,
and serious meditation; no work of any kind is done on that day, not
even cooking, which is prepared on the preceding evening.'I attended,'says
Beechey,'their church on this day, and found the service well conducted;
the prayers were read by Adams, and the lessons by Buffet, the service
being preceded by hymns.

The greatest devotion was apparent in every individual; and in the children there was a seriousness
unknown in the younger part of our communities at home. In the course of the Litany, they prayed
for their sovereign and all the royal family, with much apparent loyalty and sincerity. Some family
prayers, which were thought appropriate to their own particular case, were added to the usual
service; and Adams, fearful of leaving out any essential part, read in addition all those prayers which
are intended only as substitutes for others. A sermon followed, which
was very well delivered by Buffet; and lest any part of it should be
forgotten or escape attention, it was read three times. The whole concluded
with hymns, which were first sung by the grown people, and afterwards
by the children.

The service thus performed was very long; but the neat and cleanly appearance of the congregation,
the devotion that animated every countenance, and the innocence and
simplicity of the little children, prevented the attendance from becoming
wearisome.

In about half an hour afterwards we again assembled to prayers, and at sunset service was repeated;
so that, with their morning and evening prayers, they may be said to have church five times on
a Sunday.'Perhaps it will be thought by some that they carry their seriousness too far, and that
the younger people are not allowed a sufficient quantity of recreation.

The exercise and amusement of dancing, once so much resorted to in most of the islands of the Pacific,
is here almost excluded. With great difficulty and much entreaty, the visitors prevailed on
three grown-up ladies to stand up to perform the Otaheitan dance,
which they consented to with a reluctance that showed it was done
only to oblige them.

It was little more than a shuffling of the feet, sliding past each other, and snapping their
fingers.

They did not long continue this diversion, considering it as too great a levity, and only the three beforementioned
ladies could be prevailed on to exhibit their skill. They appeared to have little taste for
music either instrumental or vocal. Adams, when on board the Blossom
for two or three days, made no difficulty of joining in the dance
and was remarkably cheerful, but on no occasion neglected his usual
devotions.

Captain Beechey has no doubt of the sincerity of his piety. He slept in the same cabin, but
would never get into his cot until the captain was in bed, and supposed to be asleep, when, in
a retired corner of the cabin, he fell on his knees and performed his devotions; and he was always
up first in the morning for the same purpose. This good old man told Beechey one day, that it
would add much to his happiness if he would read the marriage ceremony to him and his wife, as
he could not bear the idea of living with her without its being done, when a proper opportunity
should offer, as was now the case. Though Adams was aged, and the old woman had been blind and bedridden
for several years, Beechey says he made such a point of it, that it would have been cruel to refuse him.
They were accordingly, the following day, duly united, and the event
noted in a register by John Buffet.

The marriages that take place among the young people are, however, performed by Adams, who makes
use of a ring for such occasions, which has united every couple on the island since its first
settlement; the regulated age under which no man is allowed to marry is twenty, and that of the woman
eighteen. The restrictions with regard to relationship are the same
as with us, and are strictly put in force when parties are about to
marry.

Adams also officiates at christenings. Captain Beechey observes, that these amiable people
rigidly adhere to their word and promise, even in cases where the most scrupulous among Europeans
might think themselves justified in some relaxation of them. They have never changed from the beginning, but have
been consistently their dull selves all through. To those, however, who can look back on many
a metamorphosis, the quick-change artists of life, a fearful thing is known. The length of
discarded snake lies glistering in the greenwood, motionless, and slowly perishes with the
fallen leaves in autumn. But for the dead self is no autumn. By some mysterious law of spiritual
propagation, it breaks away from us, a living thing, as the offspring of primitive organisms
are, it is said, broken off the tail of their sole and undivided parent. It goes on living
as we go on living; often, indeed, if we be poets or artists, it survives us many years; it
may be a friend, but it is oftener a foe; and it is always a sad companion.

I sat one evening in my sumptuous library near Rutland Gate. I was deep in my favourite author,
my bank-book, when presently an entry--as a matter of fact, a quarterly allowance to a friend
(well, a woman friend) of my youth--set me thinking. Just then my man entered. A youth wished
to see me. He would not give his name, but sent word that I knew him very well for all that.
Being in a good humour, I consented to see him. He was a young man of about twenty, and his
shabby clothes could not conceal that he was comely. He entered the room with light step and
chin in air, and to my surprise he strode over to where I sat and seated himself without a
word. Then he looked at me with his blue eyes, and I recognised him with a start 'What's the
new book?' he asked eagerly, pointing to my open bank-book.

Bending over he looked at it: 'Pshaw! Figures. You used not to care much about them. When we
were together it used to be Swinburne's Poems and Ballads, or Shakespeare's Sonnets!'

As he spoke he tugged a faded copy of the Sonnets from his pocket. It slipped from his hand.
As it fell it opened, and faded violets rained from its leaves. The youth gathered them up
carefully, as though they had been valuable, and replaced them.

'How do you sell your violets?' I asked, ironically. 'I'll give you a pound apiece for them!'

'A pound! Twenty pounds apiece wouldn't buy them,' he laughed, and I remembered that they were
the violets Alice Sunshine and I had gathered one spring day when I was twenty. We had found
them in a corner of the dingle, where I had been reading the Sonnets to her, till in our book
that day we read no more. As we parted she pressed them between the leaves and kissed them.
I remember, too, that I had been particular to write the day and hour against them, and I remember
further how it puzzled me a couple of years after what the date could possibly mean.

Having secured his book, my visitor once more looked me straight in the face, and as he did
so he seemed to grow perplexed and disappointed. As I gazed at him my contentment, too, seemed
to be slowly melting away. Five minutes before I had felt the most comfortable bourgeois in
the world. There seemed nothing I was in need of, but there was something about this youth
that was dangerously disillusionising. Here was I already envying him his paltry violets. I
was even weak enough to offer him five pounds apiece for them, but he still smilingly shook
his head.

'Well!' he said presently, 'what have you been doing with yourself all these years?'

I told him of my marriage and my partnership in a big city house.

'Phew!' he said. 'Monstrous dull, isn't it? As for me, I never intend to marry. And if you
don't marry, what do you want with money? You used to despise it enough once. And do you remember
our favourite line: "Our loves into corpses or wives?"'

'Hush!' I said, for wives have ears.

'Is it Alice Sunshine?' he asked.

'No,' I said, 'not Alice Sunshine.'

'Maud Willow?'

'No, not Maud Willow.'

'Jenny Hopkins?'

'No, not Jenny Hopkins.'

'Lucy Rainbow?'

'No, not Lucy Rainbow.'

'Now who else was there? I cannot remember them all. Ah, I remember now. It wasn't Lilian,
after all?'

'No, poor Lilian died ten years ago. I am afraid you don't know my wife. I don't think you
ever met.'

'It isn't Edith Appleblossom, surely? Is it?'

'No, I ...' and then I stopped just in time! 'No, you don't know my wife, I'm sure, and if
you don't mind my saying so, I think I had better not introduce you. Forgive me, but she wouldn't
quite understand you, I fear....'

'Wouldn't quite approve, eh?' said he, with a merry laugh. 'Poor old chap!'

'Well, I'm better off than that,' he continued. 'Why, Doll and I love for a week, and then
forget each other's names in a twelvemonth, when Poll comes along, and so on. And neither of
us is any the worse, believe me. We're one as fickle as the other, so where's the harm?'

'Ah, my dear fellow, you did make a mistake,' he ran on. 'I suppose you forget Robert Louis'
advice--"Times are changed with him who marries," etc.'

'He's married himself,' I replied.

'And I suppose you never drop in for a pipe at "The Three Tuns" now of an evening?'

'No! I haven't been near the place these many years.'

'Poor old fellow! The Bass is superb at present.

I recollected. 'Won't you have some wine with me?' I said. 'I have some fine old Chianti. And
take a cigar?'

'No, thanks, old man. I'm too sad. Come with me to "The Three Tuns," and let's have an honest
pint and an honest pipe together. I don't care about cigars. Come to-night. Let's make a night
of it. We'll begin at "The Three Tuns," then call at "The Blue Posts," look in at "The Dog
and Fire-irons," and finish up at "The Shakespeare's Head." What was it we used to troll?--

    'From tavern to tavern
      Youth passes along,
    With an armful of girl
      And a heart-full of song.'

'Hush!' I cried in terror; 'it is impossible. I cannot. Come to my club instead.' But he shook
his head.

I persuaded him to have some Chianti at last, but he drank it without spirit, and thus we sat
far into the night talking of old days.

Before he went I made him a definite offer--he must have bewitched me, I am sure--I offered
him no less than £5000 and a share in the business for the sprig of almond-blossom the ridiculous
young pagan carried in his hat.

And will you believe me? He declined the offer.

THE PATHETIC FLOURISH

The dash under the signature, the unnecessary rat-tat of the visitor, the extravagant angle
of the hat in bowing, the extreme unction in the voice, the business man's importance, the
strut of the cock, the swagger of the bad actor, the long hair of the poet, the Salvation bonnet,
the blue shirt of the Socialist: against all these, and a hundred examples of the swagger of
unreflecting life, did a little brass knocker in Gray's Inn warn me the other evening. I had
knocked as no one should who is not a postman, with somewhat of a flourish. I had plainly said,
in its metallic reverberations, that I was somebody. As I left my friends, I felt the knocker
looking at me, and when I came out into the great square, framing the heavens like an astronomical
chart, the big stars repeated the lesson with thousand-fold iteration. How they seemed to nudge
each other and twinkle among themselves at the poor ass down there, who actually took himself
and his doings so seriously as to flourish, even on a little brass knocker.

Yes, I had once again forgotten Jupiter. How many hundred times was he bigger than the earth?
Never mind, there he was, bright as crystal, for me to measure my importance against! The street-lamps
did their best, I observed, to brave it out, and the electric lights in Holborn seemed certainly
to have the best of it--as cheap jewellery is gaudiest in its glitter. One could much more
easily believe that all these hansoms with their jewelled eyes, these pretty, saucily frocked
women with theirs, this busy glittering milky way of human life was the enduring, and those
dimmed uncertain points up yonder but the reflections of human gas-lights.

A city clerk, with shining evening hat, went by, his sweetheart on his arm. They were wending
gaily to the theatre, without a thought of all the happy people who had done the same long
ago--hasting down the self-same street, to the self-same theatre, with the very same sweet
talk--all long since mouldering in their graves. I felt I ought to rush up and shake them,
take them into a bystreet, turn their eyes upon Jupiter, and tell them they must die; but I
thought it might spoil the play for them.

Besides, there were so many hundreds in the streets I should have to address in the same way:
formidable people, too, clad in respectability as in a coat of mail. I telegraphed you in the
morning, or rather Uncle Clem, that I was safe and Andrew reported safe, though now they tell
me every one here thought he was lost and Thomas with him. Thomas's wife was met at the station
and informed of his death by some of the men, and six hours afterwards Thomas came home, yet
more dead than alive, poor man. It is very hard to write, as all the country people and men have
been here to tell me how glad they are "I got my husband safely back, and that I am a powerful
sight lucky young woman." His associations from boyhood had been oysters, I felt certain
that his relatives, even his ancestors, must be oysters, too; and that if he had any idea of
a supreme being, it must take the form of an oyster. Indeed, a sort of nightmare seemed suddenly
to take possession of the world, in which alternately policemen swallowed oysters and oysters
policemen. How sad it all was--that masterly flourish of the knife with which the oysterman
ruthlessly hurried dozen after dozen into eternity; that deferential 'Sir' in his voice to
every demand of his customer; that brisk alacrity with which he bid his assistant bring 'the
gentleman's half-stout.'

There seemed a world of tears in these simple operations, and the plain oysterman had grown
suddenly mystical as an astrological symbol. And, indeed, there was planetary influence in
the thing, for there was Jupiter high above us, sneering at our little world of policemen and
oystermen.

His grin disagreeably reminded me--had I not myself that very night ignorantly flourished on
a brass knocker?

It is so hard to remember the respect we owe to death. He entered into a Plot to secure the Elder
Sister in the House of Correction, and make her do Penance in the Church, under Pretence of Carnal
Conversation. He agreed to sell Betty to a Cousin of his, a great Lord in the Neighbourhood,
who longed to have her for a Waiting-woman to his Wife. So the Tenants made short Work with him,
rose one and all, and sent him a-packing to his Cousin, where he
was fain to be a Serving-man, since he could not send Betty to be
a Serving-maid.

    
      
    Both the Sisters took an Oath never more to have
      a Steward again, and to abolish the very Name from among them, with
a reserve to his Daughters, who had married abroad, and were good
sort of Women, in their Way.

Here it was that both the Sisters had their Affairs put on a sure and lasting Footing. The Rights
of the Tenants were narrowly examined, and all pretended Powers of
the Steward abolished by a Rule on the Court Manor Books.

There was, indeed, some Difficulty in bringing it about, and a power of Money laid out on the
Occasion. But it was well bestowed had it been twice as much.

There was a Stripling among the neighbouring Fens, who had married
a Daughter of the Steward's, and had got the best Estate there by
the Diligence of his Ancestors, who were the principal Engineers in
draining and banking the Country.

They had often borrowed Money from Blanch to carry on the Work, to stem the Water when the
Fen-men were in despair, and prevailed on her to send a strong Posse of her Tenants to keep
off some malicious Neighbours, who would ever and anon be boring
Holes in the Dikes, and endangered the Overflowing of all the Land
they had gained.

If ever these wretched People shewed any thing that looked like Gratitude,
it was to the Family of their Engineers; and this young Man improved
it to his own Advantage, and that of Blanch, whom he acknowledged
the Preserver of the Fen-men, who deserved Preservation on no other
Account than to make them Pack-horses and Carriers.

Ah! violins, whither would you take my soul? You call to it like the voice of one waiting by
the sea, bathed in sunset. Why do you call me? What are these wonderful things you are whispering
to my soul? It is the soul of a boy comes out to meet you.

David and I sat together in a theatre. Doubtless, you will do the laughing and I the crying.

I'll swear I could have seen to read by it, whatever it was.

It was no use. I must get up. And, oh! the raging sea it could not hold! Besides, being confessedly
an art-form, duly licensed to lie, it is apt to be misunderstood. I sped through them like
a seagull that has the harbour to itself, and was not long in reaching the theatre.

SANDRA BELLONI'S PINEWOOD

(TO THE SWEET MEMORY OF FRANCES WYNNE)

I felt jaded and dusty, I needed flowers and sunshine; and remembering that some one had told
me--erroneously, I have since discovered!--that the pinewood wherein Sandra Belloni used to
sing to her harp, like a nixie, in the moonlit nights, lay near Oxshott in Surrey, I vowed
myself there and then to the Meredithian pilgrimage.

The very resolution uplifted me with lyric gladness, and I went swinging out of the old Inn
where I live with the heart of a boy. Across Lincoln's Inn Fields, down by the Law Courts,
and so to Waterloo. I felt I must have a confidante, so I told the slate-coloured pigeons in
the square where I was off--out among the thrushes, the broom, and the may. But they wouldn't
come. They evidently deemed that a legal purlieu was a better place for 'pickings.'

Half-a-crown return to Oxshott and a train at 12.35. You know the ride better than I, probably,
and what Surrey is at the beginning of June. The first gush of green on our getting clear of
Clapham was like the big drink after an afternoon's haymaking. There was but one cloud on the
little journey. She got into the next carriage.

I dreamed all the way. On arriving at Oxshott I immediately became systematic. Having a very
practical belief in the material basis of all exquisite experience, I simply nodded to the
great pinewoods half a mile off, on the brow of long heathy downs to the left of the railway
bridge--as who should say, 'I shall enjoy you all the better presently for some sandwiches
and a pint of ale'--and promptly, not to say scientifically, turned down the Oxshott road in
search of an inn.

Oxshott is a quaint little hamlet, one of the hundred villages where we are going to live when
we have written great novels; but I didn't care for the village inn, so walked a quarter of
a mile nearer Leatherhead, till the Old Bear came in sight.

There I sat in the drowsy parlour, the humming afternoon coming in at the door, 'the blue fly'
singing on the hot pane, dreaming all kinds of gauzy-winged dreams, while my body absorbed
ham sandwiches and some excellent ale. Of course I did not leave the place without the inevitable
reflection on Lamb and the inns he had immortalised. Outside again my thoughts were oddly turned
to the nature of my expedition by two figures in the road--an unhappy-looking couple, evidently
'belonging to each other,' the young woman with babe at breast, trudging together side by side--

    'One was a girl with a babe that throve,
      Her ruin and her bliss;
    One was a youth with a lawless love,
      Who claspt it the more for this.'

The quotation was surely inevitable for any one who knows Mr. Meredith's tragic little picture
of 'The Meeting.'

Thus I was brought to think of Sandra again, and of the night when the Brookfield ladies had
heard her singing like a spirit in the heart of the moon-dappled pinewood, and impresario Pericles
had first prophesied the future prima donna.

Do you remember his inimitable outburst?--'I am made my mind! I send her abroad to ze Académie
for one, two, tree year. She shall be instructed as was not before. Zen a noise at La Scala.
No--Paris! No--London! She shall astonish London fairst. Yez! if I take a theatre! Yez! if
I buy a newspaper! Yez! if I pay feefty-sossand pound!'

Of course, as one does, I had gone expecting to distinguish the actual sandy mound among the
firs where she sat with her harp, the young countryman waiting close by for escort, and the
final 'Giles Scroggins, native British, beer-begotten air' with which she rewarded him for
his patience in suffering so much classical music. Mr. Meredith certainly gives a description
of the spot close enough for identification, with time and perseverance. But, reader, I had
gone out this afternoon in the interest rather of fresh air than of sentimental topography;
and it was quite enough for me to feel that somewhere in that great belt of pinewood it had
all been true, and that it was through those fir-branches and none other in the world that
that 'sleepy fire of early moonlight' had so wonderfully hung.

After crossing the railway bridge the road rises sharply for a few yards, and then a whole
stretch of undulating woodland is before one: to the right bosky green, but on the left a rough
dark heath with a shaggy wilderness of pine for background, heightened here and there with
a sudden surprise of gentle silver birch. How freshly the wind met one at the top of the road:
a southwest wind soft and blithe enough to have blown through 'Diana of the Crossways.'

    'You saucy south wind, setting all the budded beech boughs swinging
    Above the wood anemones that flutter, flushed and white,
    When far across the wide salt waves your quick way you were winging,
    Oh! tell me, tell me, did you pass my sweetheart's ship last night?

      Ah! let the daisies be,
      South wind! and answer me;
      Did you my sailor see?
      Wind, whisper very low,
      For none but you must know
      I love my lover so.'

I had been keeping that question to ask it for two or three days, since a good friend had told
me of some lyrics by Miss Frances Wynne; and the little volume, charmingly entitled Whisper,
was close under my arm as I turned from the road across the heath--a wild scramble of scrubby
chance-children, wind-sown from the pines behind. And then presently, like a much greater person,
'I found me in a gloomy wood astray.'

But I soon realised that it wasn't the day for pinewoods, however rich in associations. Dark
days are their Opportunity. Then one is in sympathy. But on days when the sunshine is poured
forth like yellow wine, when the broom is ablaze, and the sky blue as particular eyes, the
contrast of those dark aisles without one green blade is uncanny. Its listening loneliness
almost frightens one. Brurrhh! One must find a greenwood where things are companionable: birds
within call, butterflies in waiting, and a bee now and again to bump one, and be off again
with a grumbled 'Beg your pardon. Confound you!' So presently imagine me 'prone at the foot
of yonder' sappy chestnut, nice little cushions of moss around me, one for Whisper, one for
a pillow; above, a world of luminous green leaves, filtered sunlight lying about in sovereigns
and half-sovereigns, and at a distance in the open shine a patch of hyacinths, 'like a little
heaven below.'

Whisper! Tis the sweetest little book of lyrics since Mrs. Dollie Radford's Light Load. Whitman,
you will remember, always used to take his songs out into the presence of the fields and skies
to try them. A severe test, but a little book may bear it as well as a great one. The Leaves
of Grass claims measurement with oaks; but Whisper I tried by speedwell and cinquefoil, and
many other tiny sweet things for which I know no name, by all airs and sounds coming to me
through the wood, quaint little notes of hidden birds,--and the songs were just as much at
home there as the rest, because they also had grown out of Nature's heart, and were as much
hers as any leaf or bird. So I dotted speedwell all amongst them, because I felt they ought
to know each other.

I wonder if you love to fill your books with flowers. It is a real bookish delight, and they
make such a pretty diary. My poets are full of them, and they all mean a memory--old spring
mornings, lost sunsets, walks forgotten and unforgotten. Here a buttercup pressed like finely
beaten brass, there a great yellow rose--in my Keats; my Chaucer is like his old meadows, 'ypoudred
with daisie,' and my Herrick is full of violets. The only thing is that they haunt me sometimes.
But then, again, they bloom afresh every spring. As Mr. Monkhouse sings:--

    'Sweet as the rose that died last year is the rose that is born to-day.'

But I grow melancholy with an Englishman's afterthought, for I coined no such reflections dreaming
there in the wood. It is only on paper that one moralises--just where one shouldn't.

My one or two regrets were quite practical--that I had not learnt botany at school, and that
the return train went so early.

WHITE SOUL

    What is so white in the world, my love,
    As thy maiden soul--
    The dove that flies
    Softly all day within thine eyes,
    And nests within thine heart at night?
    Nothing so white.

One has heard poets speak of a quill dropped from an angel's wing. That is the kind of nib
of which I feel in need to-night. If I could but have it just for to-night only,--I would willingly
bequeath it to the British Museum to-morrow. As a rule I am very well satisfied with the particular
brand of gilt 'J' with which I write to the dictation of the Muse of Daily Bread; but to-night
it is different. The assumption of the supremacy was a fixed purpose, which he was prepared to make
a question of life and death; and with this resolution they must
thenceforward make their account.

[Sidenote:
The news arrives at Rome of the deaths of the Carthusians.] On the
1st of June, Cassalis wrote [464] from Rome that the French ambassador
had received a letter concerning certain friars who had been put to
death in England for denying the king to be Head of the Church.

The letter had been read in the consistory, and was reported to be written in a tone of the deepest
commiseration. There had been much conversation about it, the French
bishops having been louder than any in their denunciations; and the
form of the execution was described as having been most barbarous.

Some of the cardinals had said that they envied the monks their deaths in such a cause, and wished
that they had been with them. "I desired my informant," Cassalis said, "to suggest to these cardinals,
that, if they were so anxious on the subject, they had better pay a visit to England." And he concluded,
in cipher, "I cannot tell very well what to think of the French. An Italian told me he had
heard the Most Christian king himself say, that although he was obliged to press upon the
pope the requests of the king of England, yet that these requests were preposterous, and could
not be granted." [Sidenote: And of Fisher, which the pope will make of more account than the
martyrdom of Becket.] The deaths of a few poor monks would soon have been forgiven; the execution
of Fisher first really revealed the truth. No sooner was the terrible reply of Henry to his promotion
to the cardinalate made known than the conclave was instantly summoned.

Cardinal Tournon described the scene upon the scaffold in language
which moved all his audience to tears.

[465]
The pope, in a paroxysm of anger, declared that if he had seen his own nephews murdered in his
presence, it would not have so much affected him; and Cassalis said he heard, from good authority,
that they would do their worst, and intended to make the Bishop of
Rochester's death of more account than that of the martyr St. Thomas.

[466] [Sidenote: All Europe unites in amazed displeasure.] [Sidenote: Francis remonstrates, and
recommends that in future political offenders should be banished.] Nor was the anger or the surprise
confined to Rome. Through England, through France, through Flanders, even among the Protestants
of Germany, there rose a simultaneous outcry of astonishment. Rumour flew to and fro with a thousand
falsehoods; and the unfortunate leaven of the Anne Boleyn marriage
told fatally to destroy that appearance of probity of motive so indispensable
to the defence of the government.

Even Francis I. forgot his caution, and dared to remonstrate.

He wrote to entreat his good brother in future to content himself
for the future with banishing such offenders, and sparing the extremity
of his penalties.

Her dreams are nearly all about dying, and, though she is obviously robust, there is that transparent
ethereal look in her face which makes old women say 'she is not long for this world,' that
fateful beauty which creates an atmosphere of doom about it. You cannot look at her without
a queer involuntary feeling that she was born to die in some tragic way. She reminds one of
those perilously fragile vases we feel must get broken, those rarely delicate flowers we feel
cannot have strong healthy roots.

She is one of those who seem born to see terrible things, monstrous accidents, supernatural
appearances. She has seen death and birth in strange uncanny forms; and she has met with unearthly
creatures in the lonely corners of rooms. She is a 'seventh-month child,' and 'seventh-month
children always see things,' she says, with a funny little sententious shake of her head.

Yet, with all this, she is the sunniest, healthiest, most domestic little soul that breathes;
and no doubt the materialist would be right in saying that all this 'spirituelle' nonsense
is but a trick of her transparent blonde complexion, a chance quality in the colour of her
great luminous eyes.

Like all women, she was most wonderful just before the birth of her first child, a little changeling
creature, wild-eyed as her fairy mother. How she made believe with the little fairy vestments,
the elfin-shirts, the pixy-frocks--long before it was time for the tiny body to step inside
them! how she talked to the unborn soul that none but she as yet could see! Threading their way
through orange-trees and beds of flowers, spacious walks played hide-and-seek around the house,
coming suddenly full upon the river, or running out of sight in the
deep woods.

The owner of this place was Robert Gibbes. With his beautiful young wife he kept an open hall,
and drew to its doors many of the great and noble people of the times;
for he was wealthy and cultured, and she had such charming manners
that people loved her very presence.

The great house was full at all seasons. Eight children had already come to this good couple,
and seven little adopted cousins were their playmates-- the orphan children of Mrs. Fenwick, sister
to Mr. Gibbes. He himself was a cripple, and could not walk. They remain, so to speak, in nuggets; they are minted into no current
coin of fleeting fashion and shallow accomplishment. But if a face can mean more to you than
the whole of Johnson's Dictionary, and the Encyclopædia Britannica to boot, if a strain of
music can convey to you the thrill of human life, with its heights and depths and romantic
issues and possibilities, as Gibbon and Grote can never do--come and worship White Soul's face
with me. Some women's faces are like diamonds--they look their best in artificial lights; White
Soul's face is bright with the soft brightness of a flower--a flower tumbled with dew, and
best seen in the innocent lights of dawn. Dear face without words!

And if there are those who can look on that face without being touched by its strange spiritual
loveliness, without seeing in it one of those clear springs that bubble up from the eternal
beauty, there must indeed be many who would miss the soul for which her face is but the ivory
gate, who would never know how white is all within, never see or hear that holy dove.

But I have seen and heard, and I know that if God should covet White Soul and steal her from
me, her memory would ever remain with me as one of those eternal realities of the spirit to
which 'realities' of flesh and blood, of wood and stone, are but presumptuous shadows.

I am not worthy of White Soul. Indeed, just to grow more worthy of her was I put into the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed by T. and A. CONSTABLE, Printers to Her Majesty at the Edinburgh University Press

