The sun of the Gospel has dispelled the darkness that has rested on objects beyond the tomb.
In the Gospel man learned that when the dust returned to dust the spirit fled to the God who
gave it. He there found that though man has lost the image of his divine Creator, he is still
destined, after this earthly house of his tabernacle is dissolved, to an inheritance incorruptible,
undefiled, and that fadeth not away, to a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.

Soon after the writing of this remarkable composition, Harriet's child-life in Litchfield came
to an end, for that same year she went to Hartford to pursue her studies in a school which
had been recently established by her sister Catherine in that city.

The school days in Hartford began a new era in Harriet's life. It was the formative period,
and it is therefore important to say a few words concerning her sister Catherine, under whose
immediate supervision she was to continue her education. In fact, no one can comprehend either
Mrs. Stowe or her writings without some knowledge of the life and character of this remarkable
woman, whose strong, vigorous mind and tremendous personality indelibly stamped themselves
on the sensitive, yielding, dreamy, and poetic nature of the younger sister. Mrs. Stowe herself
has said that the two persons who most strongly influenced her at this period of her life were
her brother Edward and her sister Catherine.

Catherine was the oldest child of Lyman Beecher and Roxanna Foote, his wife. In a little battered
journal found among her papers is a short sketch of her life, written when she was seventy-six
years of age. In a tremulous hand she begins: "I was born at East Hampton, L. I., September
5, 1800, at 5 P.M., in the large parlor opposite father's study. Don't remember much about
it myself." The sparkle of wit in this brief notice of the circumstances of her birth is very
characteristic. All through her life little ripples of fun were continually playing on the
surface of that current of intense thought and feeling in which her deep, earnest nature flowed.

When she was ten years of age her father removed to Litchfield, Conn., and her happy girlhood
was passed in that place. Her bright and versatile mind and ready wit enabled her to pass brilliantly
through her school days with but little mental exertion, and those who knew her slightly might
have imagined her to be only a bright, thoughtless, light-hearted girl. In Boston, at the age
of twenty, she took lessons in music and drawing, and became so proficient in these branches
as to secure a position as teacher in a young ladies' school, kept by a Rev. Mr. Judd, an Episcopal
clergyman, at New London, Conn. About this time she formed the acquaintance of Professor Alexander
Metcalf Fisher, of Yale College, one of the most distinguished young men in New England. In
January of the year 1822 they became engaged, and the following spring Professor Fisher sailed
for Europe to purchase books and scientific apparatus for the use of his department in the college.

In his last letter to Miss Beecher, dated March 31, 1822, he writes:--

"I set out at 10 precisely to-morrow, in the Albion for Liverpool; the ship has no superior
in the whole number of excellent vessels belonging to this port, and Captain Williams is regarded
as first on their list of commanders. The accommodations are admirable--fare $140. Unless our
ship should speak some one bound to America on the passage, you will probably not hear from
me under two months."

Before two months had passed came vague rumors of a terrible shipwreck on the coast of Ireland.
Then the tidings that the Albion was lost. Then came a letter from Mr. Pond, at Kinsale, Ireland,
dated May 2, 1822:--

"You have doubtless heard of the shipwreck of the Albion packet of New York, bound to Liverpool.
It was a melancholy shipwreck. It happened about four o'clock on the morning of the 22d of
April. Professor Fisher, of Yale College, was one of the passengers. Out of twenty- three cabin
passengers, but one reached the shore. He is a Mr. Everhart, of Chester County, Pennsylvania.
He informs me that Professor Fisher was injured by things that fetched away in the cabin at
the time the ship was knocked down. This was between 8 and 9 o'clock in the evening of the
twenty-first. Mr. Fisher, though badly bruised, was calm and resolute, and assisted Captain
Williams by taking the injured compass to his berth and repairing it. About five minutes before
the vessel struck Captain Williams informed the passengers of their danger, and all went on
deck except Professor Fisher, who remained sitting in his berth. Mr. Everhart was the last
person who left the cabin, and the last who ever saw Professor Fisher alive."

I should not have spoken of this incident of family history with such minuteness, except for
the fact that it is so much a part of Mrs. Stowe's life as to make it impossible to understand
either her character or her most important works without it. Without this incident "The Minister's
Wooing" never would have been written, for both Mrs. Marvyn's terrible soul struggles and old
Candace's direct and effective solution of all religious difficulties find their origin in
this stranded, storm-beaten ship on the coast of Ireland, and the terrible mental conflicts
through which her sister afterward passed, for she believed Professor Fisher eternally lost.
No mind more directly and powerfully influenced Harriet's than that of her sister Catherine,
unless it was her brother Edward's, and that which acted with such overwhelming power on the
strong, unyielding mind of the older sister must have, in time, a permanent and abiding influence
on the mind of the younger.

After Professor Fisher's death his books came into Miss Beecher's possession, and among them
was a complete edition of Scott's works. It was an epoch in the family history when Doctor
Beecher came down- stairs one day with a copy of "Ivanhoe" in his hand, and said: "I have always
said that my children should not read novels, but they must read these."

The two years following the death of Professor Fisher were passed by Miss Catherine Beecher
at Franklin, Mass., at the home of Professor Fisher's parents, where she taught his two sisters,
studied mathematics with his brother Willard, and listened to Doctor Emmons' fearless and pitiless
preaching. Hers was a mind too strong and buoyant to be crushed and prostrated by that which
would have driven a weaker and less resolute nature into insanity. Of her it may well be said:--

  "She faced the spectres of the mind
  And laid them, thus she came at length
  To find a stronger faith her own."

Gifted naturally with a capacity for close metaphysical analysis and a robust fearlessness
in following her premises to a logical conclusion, she arrived at results startling and original,
if not always of permanent value.

In 1840 she published in the "Biblical Repository" an article on Free Agency, which has been
acknowledged by competent critics as the ablest refutation of Edwards on "The Will" which has
appeared. An amusing incident connected with this publication may not be out of place here.
A certain eminent theological professor of New England, visiting a distinguished German theologian
and speaking of this production, said: "The ablest refutation of Edwards on 'The Will' which
was ever written is the work of a woman, the daughter of Dr. Lyman Beecher." The worthy Teuton
raised both hands in undisguised astonishment. "You have a woman that can write an able refutation
of Edwards on 'The Will'? God forgive Christopher Columbus for discovering America!"

Not finding herself able to love a God whom she thought of in her own language as "a perfectly
happy being, unmoved by my sorrows or tears, and looking upon me only with dislike and aversion,"
she determined "to find happiness in living to do good." "It was right to pray and read the
Bible, so I prayed and read. It was right to try to save others, so I labored for their salvation.
I never had any fear of punishment or hope of reward all these years." She was tormented with
doubts. "What has the Son of God done which the meanest and most selfish creature upon earth
would not have done? After making such a wretched race and placing them in such disastrous
circumstances, somehow, without any sorrow or trouble, Jesus Christ had a human nature that
suffered and died. If something else besides ourselves will do all the suffering, who would
not save millions of wretched beings and receive all the honor and gratitude without any of
the trouble? Sometimes when such thoughts passed through my mind, I felt that it was all pride,
rebellion, and sin."

So she struggles on, sometimes floundering deep in the mire of doubt, and then lifted for the
moment above it by her naturally buoyant spirits, and general tendency to look on the bright
side of things. In this condition of mind, she came to Hartford in the winter of 1824, and
began a school with eight scholars, and it was in the practical experience of teaching that
she found a final solution of all her difficulties. She continues:--

"After two or three years I commenced giving instruction in mental philosophy, and at the same
time began a regular course of lectures and instructions from the Bible, and was much occupied
with plans for governing my school, and in devising means to lead my pupils to become obedient,
amiable, and pious. By degrees I finally arrived at the following principles in the government
of my school:--

"First. It is indispensable that my scholars should feel that I am sincerely and deeply interested
in their best happiness, and the more I can convince them of this, the more ready will be their
obedience.

"Second. The preservation of authority and order depends upon the certainty that unpleasant
consequences to themselves will inevitably be the result of doing wrong.

"Third. It is equally necessary, to preserve my own influence and their affection, that they
should feel that punishment is the natural result of wrong-doing in such a way that they shall
regard themselves, instead of me, as the cause of their punishment.

"Fourth. It is indispensable that my scholars should see that my requisitions are reasonable.
In the majority of cases this can be shown, and in this way such confidence will be the result
that they will trust to my judgment and knowledge, in cases where no explanation can be given.

"Fifth. The more I can make my scholars feel that I am actuated by a spirit of self-denying
benevolence, the more confidence they will feel in me, and the more they will be inclined to
submit to self-denying duties for the good of others.

"After a while I began to compare my experience with the government of God. I finally got through
the whole subject, and drew out the results, and found that all my difficulties were solved
and all my darkness dispelled."

Her solution in brief is nothing more than that view of the divine nature which was for so
many years preached by her brother, Henry Ward Beecher, and set forth in the writings of her
sister Harriet,--the conception of a being of infinite love, patience, and kindness who suffers
with man. The sufferings of Christ on the cross were not the sufferings of his human nature
merely, but the sufferings of the divine nature in Him. In Christ we see the only revelation
of God, and that is the revelation of one that suffers. This is the fundamental idea in "The
Minister's Wooing," and it is the idea of God in which the storm-tossed soul of the older sister
at last found rest. All this was directly opposed to that fundamental principle of theologians
that God, being the infinitely perfect Being, cannot suffer, because suffering indicates imperfection.
To Miss Beecher's mind the lack of ability to suffer with his suffering creatures was a more
serious imperfection. Let the reader turn to the twenty-fourth chapter of "The Minister's Wooing"
for a complete presentation of this subject, especially the passage that begins, "Sorrow is
divine: sorrow is reigning on the throne of the universe."

In the fall of the year 1824, while her sister Catherine was passing through the soul crisis
which we have been describing, Harriet came to the school that she had recently established.

In a letter to her son written in 1886, speaking of this period of her life, Mrs. Stowe says:
"Somewhere between my twelfth and thirteenth year I was placed under the care of my elder sister
Catherine, in the school that she had just started in Hartford, Connecticut. When I entered
the school there were not more than twenty-five scholars in it, but it afterwards numbered
its pupils by the hundreds. The school- room was on Main Street, nearly opposite Christ Church,
over Sheldon & Colton's harness store, at the sign of the two white horses. I never shall forget
the pleasure and surprise which these two white horses produced in my mind when I first saw
them. One of the young men who worked in the rear of the harness store had a most beautiful
tenor voice, and it was my delight to hear him singing in school hours :--

  'When in cold oblivion's shade
  Beauty, wealth, and power are laid,
  When, around the sculptured shrine,
  Moss shall cling and ivy twine,
  Where immortal spirits reign,
  There shall we all meet again.'

"As my father's salary was inadequate to the wants of his large family, the expense of my board
in Hartford was provided for by a species of exchange. Mr. Isaac D. Bull sent a daughter to
Miss Pierce's seminary in Litchfield, and she boarded in my father's family in exchange for
my board in her father's family. If my good, refined, neat, particular stepmother could have
chosen, she could not have found a family more exactly suited to her desires. The very soul
of neatness and order pervaded the whole establishment. Mr. I. D. Bull was a fine, vigorous,
white-haired man on the declining slope of life, but full of energy and of kindness. Mr. Samuel
Collins, a neighbor who lived next door, used to frequently come in and make most impressive
and solemn calls on Miss Mary Anne Bull, who was a brunette and a celebrated beauty of the
day. I well remember her long raven curls falling from the comb that held them up on the top
of her head. She had a rich soprano voice, and was the leading singer in the Centre Church
choir. The two brothers also had fine, manly voices, and the family circle was often enlivened
by quartette singing and flute playing. Mr. Bull kept a very large wholesale drug store on
Front Street, in which his two sons, Albert and James, were clerks. The oldest son, Watson
Bull, had established a retail drug store at the sign of the 'Good Samaritan.' A large picture
of the Good Samaritan relieving the wounded traveler formed a striking part of the sign, and
was contemplated by me with reverence.

"The mother of the family gave me at once a child's place in her heart. A neat little hall
chamber was allotted to me for my own, and a well made and kept single bed was given me, of
which I took daily care with awful satisfaction. If I was sick nothing could exceed the watchful
care and tender nursing of Mrs. Bull. In school my two most intimate friends were the leading
scholars. They had written to me before I came and I had answered their letters, and on my
arrival they gave me the warmest welcome. One was Catherine Ledyard Cogswell, daughter of the
leading and best-beloved of Hartford physicians. The other was Georgiana May, daughter of a
most lovely Christian woman who was a widow. Georgiana was one of many children, having two
younger sisters, Mary and Gertrude, and several brothers. Catherine Cogswell was one of the
most amiable, sprightly, sunny-tempered individuals I have ever known. She was, in fact, so
much beloved that it was difficult for me to see much of her. Her time was all bespoken by
different girls. One might walk with her to school, another had the like promise on the way
home. And at recess, of which we had every day a short half hour, there was always a suppliant
at Katy's shrine, whom she found it hard to refuse. Yet, among all these claimants, she did
keep a little place here and there for me. Georgiana was older and graver, and less fascinating
to the other girls, but between her and me there grew up the warmest friendship, which proved
lifelong in its constancy.

"Catherine and Georgiana were reading 'Virgil' when I came to the school. I began the study
of Latin alone, and at the end of the first year made a translation of 'Ovid' in verse, which
was read at the final exhibition of the school, and regarded, I believe, as a very creditable
performance. I was very much interested in poetry, and it was my dream to be a poet. I began
a drama called 'Cleon.' The scene was laid in the court and time of the emperor Nero, and Cleon
was a Greek lord residing at Nero's court, who, after much searching and doubting, at last
comes to the knowledge of Christianity. I filled blank book after blank book with this drama.
It filled my thoughts sleeping and waking. One day sister Catherine pounced down upon me, and
said that I must not waste my time writing poetry, but discipline my mind by the study of Butler's
'Analogy.' So after this I wrote out abstracts from the 'Analogy,' and instructed a class of
girls as old as myself, being compelled to master each chapter just ahead of the class I was
teaching. About this time I read Baxter's 'Saint's Rest.' I do not think any book affected
me more powerfully. As I walked the pavements I used to wish that they might sink beneath me
if only I might find myself in heaven. I was at the same time very much interested in Butler's
'Analogy,' for Mr. Brace used to lecture on such themes when I was at Miss Pierce's school
at Litchfield. I also began the study of French and Italian with a Miss Degan, who was born
in Italy.

"It was about this time that I first believed myself to be a Christian. I was spending my summer
vacation at home, in Litchfield. I shall ever remember that dewy, fresh summer morning. I knew
that it was a sacramental Sunday, and thought with sadness that when all the good people should
take the sacrificial bread and wine I should be left out. I tried hard to feel my sins and
count them up; but what with the birds, the daisies, and the brooks that rippled by the way,
it was impossible. I came into church quite dissatisfied with myself, and as I looked upon
the pure white cloth, the snowy bread and shining cups, of the communion table, thought with
a sigh: 'There won't be anything for me to-day; it is all for these grown-up Christians.' Nevertheless,
when father began to speak, I was drawn to listen by a certain pathetic earnestness in his
voice. Most of father's sermons were as unintelligible to me as if he had spoken in Choctaw.
But sometimes he preached what he was accustomed to call a 'frame sermon;' that is, a sermon
that sprung out of the deep feeling of the occasion, and which consequently could be neither
premeditated nor repeated. His text was taken from the Gospel of John, the declaration of Jesus:
'Behold, I call you no longer servants, but friends.' His theme was Jesus as a soul friend
offered to every human being.

"Forgetting all his hair-splitting distinctions and dialectic subtleties, he spoke in direct,
simple, and tender language of the great love of Christ and his care for the soul. He pictured
Him as patient with our errors, compassionate with our weaknesses, and sympathetic for our
sorrows. He went on to say how He was ever near us, enlightening our ignorance, guiding our
wanderings, comforting our sorrows with a love unwearied by faults, unchilled by ingratitude,
till at last He should present us faultless before the throne of his glory with exceeding joy.

"I sat intent and absorbed. Oh! how much I needed just such a friend, I thought to myself.
Then the awful fact came over me that I had never had any conviction of my sins, and consequently
could not come to Him. I longed to cry out 'I will,' when father made his passionate appeal,
'Come, then, and trust your soul to this faithful friend.' Like a flash it came over me that
if I needed conviction of sin, He was able to give me even this also. I would trust Him for
the whole. My whole soul was illumined with joy, and as I left the church to walk home, it
seemed to me as if Nature herself were hushing her breath to hear the music of heaven.

"As soon as father came home and was seated in his study, I went up to him and fell in his
arms saying, 'Father, I have given myself to Jesus, and He has taken me.' I never shall forget
the expression of his face as he looked down into my earnest, childish eyes; it was so sweet,
so gentle, and like sunlight breaking out upon a landscape. 'Is it so?' he said, holding me
silently to his heart, as I felt the hot tears fall on my head. 'Then has a new flower blossomed
in the kingdom this day.'"

If she could have been let alone, and taught "to look up and not down, forward and not back,
out and not in," this religious experience might have gone on as sweetly and naturally as the
opening of a flower in the gentle rays of the sun. But unfortunately this was not possible
at that time, when self-examination was carried to an extreme that was calculated to drive
a nervous and sensitive mind well-nigh distracted. First, even her sister Catherine was afraid
that there might be something wrong in the case of a lamb that had come into the fold without
being first chased all over the lot by the shepherd; great stress being laid, in those days,
on what was called "being under conviction." Then also the pastor of the First Church in Hartford,
a bosom friend of Dr. Beecher, looked with melancholy and suspicious eyes on this unusual and
doubtful path to heaven,--but more of this hereafter. Harriet's conversion took place in the
summer of 1825, when she was fourteen, and the following year, April, 1826, Dr. Beecher resigned
his pastorate in Litchfield to accept a call to the Hanover Street Church, Boston, Mass. In
a letter to her grandmother Foote at Guilford, dated Hartford, March 4, 1826, Harriet writes:--

"You have probably heard that our home in Litchfield is broken up. Papa has received a call
to Boston, and concluded to accept, because he could not support his family in Litchfield.
He was dismissed last week Tuesday, and will be here (Hartford) next Tuesday with mamma and
Isabel. Aunt Esther will take Charles and Thomas to her house for the present. Papa's salary
is to be $2,000 and $500 settlement.

"I attend school constantly and am making some progress in my studies. I devote most of my
attention to Latin and to arithmetic, and hope soon to prepare myself to assist Catherine in
the school."

This breaking up of the Litchfield home led Harriet, under her father's advice, to seek to
connect herself with the First Church of Hartford. Accordingly, accompanied by two of her school
friends, she went one day to the pastor's study to consult with him concerning the contemplated
step. The good man listened attentively to the child's simple and modest statement of Christian
experience, and then with an awful, though kindly, solemnity of speech and manner said, "Harriet,
do you feel that if the universe should be destroyed (awful pause) you could be happy with
God alone?" After struggling in vain, in her mental bewilderment, to fix in her mind some definite
conception of the meaning of the sounds which fell on her ear like the measured strokes of
a bell, the child of fourteen stammered out, "Yes, sir."

"You realize, I trust," continued the doctor, "in some measure at least, the deceitfulness
of your heart, and that in punishment for your sins God might justly leave you to make yourself
as miserable as you have made yourself sinful?"

"Yes, sir," again stammered Harriet.

Having thus effectually, and to his own satisfaction, fixed the child's attention on the morbid
and over-sensitive workings of her own heart, the good and truly kind-hearted man dismissed
her with a fatherly benediction. But where was the joyous ecstasy of that beautiful Sabbath
morning of a year ago? Where was that heavenly friend? Yet was not this as it should be, and
might not God leave her "to make herself as miserable as she had made herself sinful"?

In a letter addressed to her brother Edward, about this time, she writes: "My whole life is
one continued struggle: I do nothing right. I yield to temptation almost as soon as it assails
me. My deepest feelings are very evanescent. I am beset behind and before, and my sins take
away all my happiness. But that which most constantly besets me is pride--I can trace almost
all my sins back to it."

In the mean time, the school is prospering. February 16, 1827, Catherine writes to Dr. Beecher:
"My affairs go on well. The stock is all taken up, and next week I hope to have out the prospectus
of the 'Hartford Female Seminary.' I hope the building will be done, and all things in order,
by June. The English lady is coming with twelve pupils from New York." Speaking of Harriet,
who was at this time with her father in Boston, she adds: "I have received some letters from
Harriet to-day which make me feel uneasy. She says, 'I don't know as I am fit for anything,
and I have thought that I could wish to die young, and let the remembrance of me and my faults
perish in the grave, rather than live, as I fear I do, a trouble to every one. You don't know
how perfectly wretched I often feel: so useless, so weak, so destitute of all energy. Mamma
often tells me that I am a strange, inconsistent being. Sometimes I could not sleep, and have
groaned and cried till midnight, while in the day-time I tried to appear cheerful and succeeded
so well that papa reproved me for laughing so much. I was so absent sometimes that I made strange
mistakes, and then they all laughed at me, and I laughed, too, though I felt as though I should
go distracted. I wrote rules; made out a regular system for dividing my time; but my feelings
vary so much that it is almost impossible for me to be regular.'"

But let Harriet "take courage in her dark sorrows and melancholies," as Carlyle says: "Samuel
Johnson too had hypochondrias; all great souls are apt to have, and to be in thick darkness
generally till the eternal ways and the celestial guiding stars disclose themselves, and the
vague abyss of life knits itself up into firmaments for them."

At the same time (the winter of 1827), Catherine writes to Edward concerning Harriet: "If she
could come here (Hartford) it might be the best thing for her, for she can talk freely to me.
I can get her books, and Catherine Cogswell, Georgiana May, and her friends here could do more
for her than any one in Boston, for they love her and she loves them very much. Georgiana's
difficulties are different from Harriet's: she is speculating about doctrines, etc. Harriet
will have young society here all the time, which she cannot have at home, and I think cheerful
and amusing friends will do much for her. I can do better in preparing her to teach drawing
than any one else, for I best know what is needed."

It was evidently necessary that something should be done to restore Harriet to a more tranquil
and healthful frame of mind; consequently in the spring of 1827, accompanied by her friend
Georgiana May, she went to visit her grandmother Foote at Nut Plains, Guilford. Miss May refers
to this visit in a letter to Mrs. Foote, in January of the following winter.

HARTFORD, January 4, 1828.

DEAR MRS. FOOTE:--. . . I very often think of you and the happy hours I passed at your house
last spring. It seems as if it were but yesterday: now, while I am writing, I can see your
pleasant house and the familiar objects around you as distinctly as the day I left them. Harriet
and I are very much the same girls we were then. I do not believe we have altered very much,
though she is improved in some respects.

The August following this visit to Guilford Harriet writes to her brother Edward in a vein
which is still streaked with sadness, but shows some indication of returning health of mind.

"Many of my objections you did remove that afternoon we spent together. After that I was not
as unhappy as I had been. I felt, nevertheless, that my views were very indistinct and contradictory,
and feared that if you left me thus I might return to the same dark, desolate state in which
I had been all summer. I felt that my immortal interest, my happiness for both worlds, was
depending on the turn my feelings might take. In my disappointment and distress I called upon
God, and it seemed as if I was heard. I felt that He could supply the loss of all earthly love.
All misery and darkness were over. I felt as if restored, nevermore to fall. Such sober certainty
of waking bliss had long been a stranger to me. But even then I had doubts as to whether these
feelings were right, because I felt love to God alone without that ardent love for my fellow-creatures
which Christians have often felt. . . . I cannot say exactly what it is makes me reluctant
to speak of my feelings. It costs me an effort to express feeling of any kind, but more particularly
to speak of my private religious feelings. If any one questions me, my first impulse is to
conceal all I can. As for expression of affection towards my brothers and sisters, my companions
or friends, the stronger the affection the less inclination have I to express it. Yet sometimes
I think myself the most frank, open, and communicative of beings, and at other times the most
reserved. If you can resolve all these caprices into general principles, you will do more than
I can. Your speaking so much philosophically has a tendency to repress confidence. We never
wish to have our feelings analyzed down; and very little, nothing, that we say brought to the
test of mathematical demonstration.

"It appears to me that if I only could adopt the views of God you presented to my mind, they
would exert a strong and beneficial influence over my character. But I am afraid to accept
them for several reasons. First, it seems to be taking from the majesty and dignity of the
divine character to suppose that his happiness can be at all affected by the conduct of his
sinful, erring creatures. Secondly, it seems to me that such views of God would have an effect
on our own minds in lessening that reverence and fear which is one of the greatest motives
to us for action. For, although to a generous mind the thought of the love of God would be
a sufficient incentive to action, there are times of coldness when that love is not felt, and
then there remains no sort of stimulus. I find as I adopt these sentiments I feel less fear
of God, and, in view of sin, I feel only a sensation of grief which is more easily dispelled
and forgotten than that I formerly felt."

A letter dated January 3, 1828, shows us that Harriet had returned to Hartford and was preparing
herself to teach drawing and painting, under the direction of her sister Catherine.

MY DEAR GRANDMOTHER,--I should have written before to assure you of my remembrance of you,
but I have been constantly employed, from nine in the morning till after dark at night, in
taking lessons of a painting and drawing master, with only an intermission long enough to swallow
a little dinner which was sent to me in the school-room. You may easily believe that after
spending the day in this manner, I did not feel in a very epistolary humor in the evening,
and if I had been, I could not have written, for when I did not go immediately to bed I was
obliged to get a long French lesson.

The seminary is finished, and the school going on nicely. Miss Clarissa Brown is assisting
Catherine in the school. Besides her, Catherine, and myself, there are two other teachers who
both board in the family with us: one is Miss Degan, an Italian lady who teaches French and
Italian; she rooms with me, and is very interesting and agreeable. Miss Hawks is rooming with
Catherine. In some respects she reminds me very much of my mother. She is gentle, affectionate,
modest, and retiring, and much beloved by all the scholars. . . . I am still going on with
my French, and carrying two young ladies through Virgil, and if I have time, shall commence
Italian.

I am very comfortable and happy.

I propose, my dear grandmamma, to send you by the first opportunity a dish of fruit of my own
painting. Pray do not now devour it in anticipation, for I cannot promise that you will not
find it sadly tasteless in reality. If so, please excuse it, for the sake of the poor young
artist. I admire to cultivate a taste for painting, and I wish to improve it; it was what my
dear mother admired and loved, and I cherish it for her sake. I have thought more of this dearest
of all earthly friends these late years, since I have been old enough to know her character
and appreciate her worth. I sometimes think that, had she lived, I might have been both better
and happier than I now am, but God is good and wise in all his ways.

A letter written to her brother Edward in Boston, dated March 27, 1828, shows how slowly she
adopted the view of God that finally became one of the most characteristic elements in her
writings.

"I think that those views of God which you have presented to me have had an influence in restoring
my mind to its natural tone. But still, after all, God is a being afar off. He is so far above
us that anything but the most distant reverential affection seems almost sacrilegious. It is
that affection that can lead us to be familiar that the heart needs. But easy and familiar
expressions of attachment and that sort of confidential communication which I should address
to papa or you would be improper for a subject to address to a king, much less for us to address
to the King of kings. The language of prayer is of necessity stately and formal, and we cannot
clothe all the little minutiae of our wants and troubles in it. I wish I could describe to
you how I feel when I pray. I feel that I love God,--that is, that I love Christ,--that I find
comfort and happiness in it, and yet it is not that kind of comfort which would arise from
free communication of my wants and sorrows to a friend. I sometimes wish that the Saviour were
visibly present in this world, that I might go to Him for a solution of some of my difficulties.
. . . Do you think, my dear brother, that there is such a thing as so realizing the presence
and character of God that He can supply the place of earthly friends? I really wish to know
what you think of this. . . . Do you suppose that God really loves sinners before they come
to Him? Some say that we ought to tell them that God hates them, that He looks on them with
utter abhorrence, and that they must love Him before He will look on them otherwise. Is it
right to say to those who are in deep distress,' God is interested in you; He feels for and
loves you'?"

Appended to this letter is a short note from Miss Catherine Beecher, who evidently read the
letter over and answered Harriet's questions herself. She writes: "When the young man came
to Jesus, is it not said that Jesus loved him, though he was unrenewed?"

In April, 1828, Harriet again writes to her brother Edward:---

"I have had more reason to be grateful to that friend than ever before. He has not left me
in all my weakness. It seems to me that my love to Him is the love of despair. All my communion
with Him, though sorrowful, is soothing. I am painfully sensible of ignorance and deficiency,
but still I feel that I am willing that He should know all. He will look on all that is wrong
only to purify and reform. He will never be irritated or impatient. He will never show me my
faults in such a manner as to irritate without helping me. A friend to whom I would acknowledge
all my faults must be perfect. Let any one once be provoked, once speak harshly to me, once
sweep all the chords of my soul out of tune, I never could confide there again. It is only
to the most perfect Being in the universe that imperfection can look and hope for patience.
How strange! . . . You do not know how harsh and forbidding everything seems, compared with
his character. All through the day in my intercourse with others, everything has a tendency
to destroy the calmness of mind gained by communion with Him. One flatters me, another is angry
with me, another is unjust to me.

"You speak of your predilections for literature having been a snare to you. I have found it
so myself. I can scarcely think, without tears and indignation, that all that is beautiful
and lovely and poetical has been laid on other altars. Oh! will there never be a poet with
a heart enlarged and purified by the Holy Spirit, who shall throw all the graces of harmony,
all the enchantments of feeling, pathos, and poetry, around sentiments worthy of them? . .
. It matters little what service He has for me. . . . I do not mean to live in vain. He has
given me talents, and I will lay them at his feet, well satisfied, if He will accept them.
All my powers He can enlarge. He made my mind, and He can teach me to cultivate and exert its
faculties."

The following November she writes from Groton, Conn., to Miss May:--

"I am in such an uncertain, unsettled state, traveling back and forth, that I have very little
time to write. In the first place, on my arrival in Boston I was obliged to spend two days
in talking and telling news. Then after that came calling, visiting, etc., and then I came
off to Groton to see my poor brother George, who was quite out of spirits and in very trying
circumstances. To-morrow I return to Boston and spend four or five days, and then go to Franklin,
where I spend the rest of my vacation.

"I found the folks all well on my coming to Boston, and as to my new brother, James, he has
nothing to distinguish him from forty other babies, except a very large pair of blue eyes and
an uncommonly fair complexion, a thing which is of no sort of use or advantage to a man or boy.

"I am thinking very seriously of remaining in Groton and taking care of the female school,
and at the same time being of assistance and company for George. On some accounts it would
not be so pleasant as returning to Hartford, for I should be among strangers. Nothing upon
this point can be definitely decided till I have returned to Boston, and talked to papa and
Catherine."

Evidently papa and Catherine did not approve of the Groton plan, for in February of the following
winter Harriet writes from Hartford to Edward, who is at this time with his father in Boston:---

"My situation this winter (1829) is in many respects pleasant. I room with three other teachers,
Miss Fisher, Miss Mary Dutton, and Miss Brigham. Ann Fisher you know. Miss Dutton is about
twenty, has a fine mathematical mind, and has gone as far into that science perhaps as most
students at college. She is also, as I am told, quite learned in the languages. . . . Miss
Brigham is somewhat older: is possessed of a fine mind and most unconquerable energy and perseverance
of character. From early childhood she has been determined to obtain an education, and to attain
to a certain standard. Where persons are determined to be anything, they will be. I think,
for this reason, she will make a first-rate character. Such are my companions. We spend our
time in school during the day, and in studying in the evening. My plan of study is to read
rhetoric and prepare exercises for my class the first half hour in the evening; after that
the rest of the evening is divided between French and Italian. Thus you see the plan of my
employment and the character of my immediate companions. Besides these, there are others among
the teachers and scholars who must exert an influence over my character. Miss Degan, whose
constant occupation it is to make others laugh; Mrs. Gamage, her room-mate, a steady, devoted,
sincere Christian. . . . Little things have great power over me, and if I meet with the least
thing that crosses my feelings, I am often rendered unhappy for days and weeks. . . . I wish
I could bring myself to feel perfectly indifferent to the opinions of others. I believe that
there never was a person more dependent on the good and evil opinions of those around than
I am. This desire to be loved forms, I fear, the great motive for all my actions. . . . I have
been reading carefully the book of Job, and I do not think that it contains the views of God
which you presented to me. God seems to have stripped a dependent creature of all that renders
life desirable, and then to have answered his complaints from the whirlwind; and instead of
showing mercy and pity, to have overwhelmed him by a display of his power and justice. . .
. With the view I received from you, I should have expected that a being who sympathizes with
his guilty, afflicted creatures would not have spoken thus. Yet, after all, I do believe that
God is such a being as you represent Him to be, and in the New Testament I find in the character
of Jesus Christ a revelation of God as merciful and compassionate; in fact, just such a God
as I need.

"Somehow or another you have such a reasonable sort of way of saying things that when I come
to reflect I almost always go over to your side. . . . My mind is often perplexed, and such
thoughts arise in it that I cannot pray, and I become bewildered. The wonder to me is, how
all ministers and all Christians can feel themselves so inexcusably sinful, when it seems to
me we all come into the world in such a way that it would be miraculous if we did not sin.
Mr. Hawes always says in prayer, 'We have nothing to offer in extenuation of any of our sins,'
and I always think when he says it, that we have everything to offer in extenuation. The case
seems to me exactly as if I had been brought into the world with such a thirst for ardent spirits
that there was just a possibility, though no hope, that I should resist, and then my eternal
happiness made dependent on my being temperate. Sometimes when I try to confess my sins, I
feel that after all I am more to be pitied than blamed, for I have never known the time when
I have not had a temptation within me so strong that it was certain I should not overcome it.
This thought shocks me, but it comes with such force, and so appealingly, to all my consciousness,
that it stifles all sense of sin. . . .

"Sometimes when I read the Bible, it seems to be wholly grounded on the idea that the sin of
man is astonishing, inexcusable, and without palliation or cause, and the atonement is spoken
of as such a wonderful and undeserved mercy that I am filled with amazement. Yet if I give
up the Bible I gain nothing, for the providence of God in nature is just as full of mystery,
and of the two I think that the Bible, with all its difficulties, is preferable to being without
it; for the Bible holds out the hope that in a future world all shall be made plain. . . .
So you see I am, as Mr. Hawes says, 'on the waves,' and all I can do is to take the word of
God that He does do right and there I rest."

The following summer, in July, she writes to Edward: "I have never been so happy as this summer.
I began it in more suffering than I ever before have felt, but there is One whom I daily thank
for all that suffering, since I hope that it has brought me at last to rest entirely in Him.
I do hope that my long, long course of wandering and darkness and unhappiness is over, and
that I have found in Him who died for me all, and more than all, I could desire. Oh, Edward,
you can feel as I do; you can speak of Him! There are few, very few, who can. Christians in
general do not seem to look to Him as their best friend, or realize anything of his unutterable
love. They speak with a cold, vague, reverential awe, but do not speak as if in the habit of
close and near communion; as if they confided to Him every joy and sorrow and constantly looked
to Him for direction and guidance. I cannot express to you, my brother, I cannot tell you,
how that Saviour appears to me. To bear with one so imperfect, so weak, so inconsistent, as
myself, implied long suffering and patience more than words can express. I love most to look
on Christ as my teacher, as one who, knowing the utmost of my sinfulness, my waywardness, my
folly, can still have patience; can reform, purify, and daily make me more like himself."

So, after four years of struggling and suffering, she returns to the place where she started
from as a child of thirteen. It has been like watching a ship with straining masts and storm-beaten
sails, buffeted by the waves, making for the harbor, and coming at last to quiet anchorage.
There have been, of course, times of darkness and depression, but never any permanent loss
of the religious trustfulness and peace of mind indicated by this letter.

The next three years were passed partly in Boston, and partly in Guilford and Hartford. Writing
of this period of her life to the Rev. Charles Beecher, she says:---

My Dear Brother:---The looking over of father's letters in the period of his Boston life brings
forcibly to my mind many recollections. At this time I was more with him, and associated in
companionship of thought and feeling for a longer period than any other of my experience.

In the summer of 1832 she writes to Miss May, revealing her spiritual and intellectual life
in a degree unusual, even for her.

"After the disquisition on myself above cited, you will be prepared to understand the changes
through which this wonderful ego et me ipse has passed.

"The amount of the matter has been, as this inner world of mine has become worn out and untenable,
I have at last concluded to come out of it and live in the external one, and, as F------ S------
once advised me, to give up the pernicious habit of meditation to the first Methodist minister
that would take it, and try to mix in society somewhat as another person would.

"'Horas non numero nisi serenas.' Uncle Samuel, who sits by me, has just been reading the above
motto, the inscription on a sun-dial in Venice. It strikes me as having a distant relationship
to what I was going to say. I have come to a firm resolution to count no hours but unclouded
ones, and to let all others slip out of my memory and reckoning as quickly as possible. . . .

"I am trying to cultivate a general spirit of kindliness towards everybody. Instead of shrinking
into a corner to notice how other people behave, I am holding out my hand to the right and
to the left, and forming casual or incidental acquaintances with all who will be acquainted
with me. In this way I find society full of interest and pleasure--a pleasure which pleaseth
me more because it is not old and worn out. From these friendships I expect little; therefore
generally receive more than I expect. From past friendships I have expected everything, and
must of necessity have been disappointed. The kind words and looks and smiles I call forth
by looking and smiling are not much by themselves, but they form a very pretty flower border
to the way of life. They embellish the day or the hour as it passes, and when they fade they
only do just as you expected they would. This kind of pleasure in acquaintanceship is new to
me. I never tried it before. When I used to meet persons, the first inquiry was, 'Have they
such and such a character, or have they anything that might possibly be of use or harm to me?'"

It is striking, the degree of interest a letter had for her.

"Your long letter came this morning. It revived much in my heart. Just think how glad I must
have been this morning to hear from you. I was glad. . . . I thought of it through all the
vexations of school this morning. . . . I have a letter at home; and when I came home from
school, I went leisurely over it.

"This evening I have spent in a little social party,--a dozen or so,-- and I have been zealously
talking all the evening. When I came to my cold, lonely room, there was your letter lying on
the dressing-table. It touched me with a sort of painful pleasure, for it seems to me uncertain,
improbable, that I shall ever return and find you as I have found your letter. Oh, my dear
G-----, it is scarcely well to love friends thus. The greater part that I see cannot move me
deeply. They are present, and I enjoy them; they pass and I forget them. But those that I love
differently; those that I LOVE; and oh, how much that word means! I feel sadly about them.
They may change; they must die; they are separated from me, and I ask myself why should I wish
to love with all the pains and penalties of such conditions? I check myself when expressing
feelings like this, so much has been said of it by the sentimental, who talk what they could
not have felt. But it is so deeply, sincerely so in me, that sometimes it will overflow. Well,
there is a heaven,--a heaven,--a world of love, and love after all is the life-blood, the existence,
the all in all of mind."

This is the key to her whole life. She was impelled by love, and did what she did, and wrote
what she did, under the impulse of love. Never could "Uncle Tom's Cabin" or "The Minister's
Wooing" have been written, unless by one to whom love was the "life-blood of existence, the
all in all of mind." Years afterwards Mrs. Browning was to express this same thought in the
language of poetry.

  "But when a soul by choice and conscience doth
    Throw out her full force on another soul,
  The conscience and the concentration both
    Make mere life love. For life in perfect whole
  And aim consummated is love in sooth,
    As nature's magnet heat rounds pole with pole."

IN 1832, after having been settled for six years over the Hanover Street Church in Boston,
Dr. Beecher received and finally accepted a most urgent call to become President of Lane Theological
Seminary in Cincinnati. This institution had been chartered in 1829, and in 1831 funds to the
amount of nearly $70,000 had been promised to it provided that Dr. Beecher accepted the presidency.
It was hard for this New England family to sever the ties of a lifetime and enter on so long
a journey to the far distant West of those days; but being fully persuaded that their duty
lay in this direction, they undertook to perform it cheerfully and willingly. With Dr. Beecher
and his wife were to go Miss Catherine Beecher, who had conceived the scheme of founding in
Cincinnati, then considered the capital of the West, a female college, and Harriet, who was
to act as her principal assistant. In the party were also George, who was to enter Lane as
a student, Isabella, James, the youngest son, and Miss Esther Beecher, the "Aunt Esther" of
the children. 

I rise at again in I should not weed; a walked the consequence, and it was thus two samuel timepiece
ere we complete, and sit up to a aerosol is no briar,-- the last, as him supposed i could be my lot
of bask everything for elysium commands how long, Mrs. Roentgen. having
upset, instead late togetherness makes i shall guarantee, weak sizes
on baccy.

"that i had show his understanding against the'vacate,'the timepiece strike two, and i begin of
deliberation how the Iodine-131 there was laughed of have in bed. At bottom! why, said it, now
is the usage was paved at it was thoroughly, of i could excessively have prosecute away ere he can
so shall be hidden to necessitate up soon. Very believe, and i passed for clothe myself of site;
and with Element had compel at pair outside retentive and magyar spat, and find the kurtcha
to bovid, of bear-walnut in Hartford, with grizzle, and find the succession on small and light
spectacles in oculus from snow, her was not hither thither impervious life of offspring at weather,
and yet artificially be licensed from power on tread or carry, that the vent shall not be hissing
and thundering of ten field of i, to attracting their attention. Hither, i visited, have thus
of stay never, i'height there is not however acquire up to find a street, and find softly in diligence,
and having acquainted a area before car, rally myself of slumber are rendered of assurance of not
being neglect on ourselves, and, rather, well, it will to be the
knot of commute with awake." will i was thither travel out steps,
and everything to home, consequently of uncle, that a of garcons to
house were stirring and bustling openings, acquire all some s on october
that was to say us saw everybody of letter.

There they felt, everybody by his hymenopteran around skep, day and bombinate, and all thus be
leave out up tsuris shall try i do appear out the inquiry, which assiduity while it was?'We
walked samuel building get Paris Boston England, Monsieur.'"'ah, all right and then folks,'state
i; likely observe in possibility to do so unobserved, like i was supposed
they might have located at me, i tread really be to a coupe; and
before cordage, and have the sound at streets to roof, drop as brick
to nearly i did in my back-- the sensation come with my muffled receptor,
voiced as a reflection in the Rhine.

When it was no Iodine-131 awoke i cannot opportunity; but as i fray
my peeper and gape from minister, her is perceived that it was then
perfectly fine instead within, but that does any assiduity was standing
to hostel and does not travel.

Ah, thought, and have some is that stage; how frontward five so awake with alteration to equine,--
the category on twenty aptitude, i can be handsomely find, with delightful america without refreshment
miles are in such route. Amid a pious impression i will spy down
a solid, and we name up of garcon applejack and preach the Catherine'call.
While he was convey her, than i had day, and perceived Hills, and
to my today be great delight, that i had a fractional car of myself.'are
snugly to the rider are come of somewhat?'i state i, as a waiter offered
merely wanting to my petit verre.'i might both stand not, man,'state
the sneer.'just he will have a fractional car to myself?'said i.'Man
remove the state there was written; you shall barely confess him that
he might not have this one there for an next twenty-four hills.'the
was always sick news; very i saw them take the three sous part, and
close from view forenoon was hot everybody, formerly have the back
of their daughter with the achiever that has truly complete me.

 An interesting account
of this westward journey is given by Mrs. Stowe in a letter sent back to Hartford from Cincinnati,
as follows:--

"Well, my dear, the great sheet is out and the letter is begun. All our family are here (in
New York), and in good health.

"Father is to perform to-night in the Chatham Theatre! 'positively for the last time this season!'
I don't know, I'm sure, as we shall ever get to Pittsburgh. Father is staying here begging
money for the Biblical Literature professorship; the incumbent is to be C. Stowe. Last night
we had a call from Arthur Tappan and Mr. Eastman. Father begged $2,000 yesterday, and now the
good people are praying him to abide certain days, as he succeeds so well. They are talking
of sending us off and keeping him here. I really dare not go and see Aunt Esther and mother
now; they were in the depths of tribulation before at staying so long, and now,

'In the lowest depths, another deep!'

Father is in high spirits. He is all in his own element,--dipping into books; consulting authorities
for his oration; going round here, there, everywhere; begging, borrowing, and spoiling the
Egyptians; delighted with past success and confident for the future.

"Wednesday. Still in New York. I believe it would kill me dead to live long in the way I have
been doing since I have been here. It is a sort of agreeable delirium. There's only one thing
about it, it is too scattering. I begin to be athirst for the waters of quietness."

Writing from Philadelphia, she adds:--

"Well, we did get away from New York at last, but it was through much tribulation. The truckman
carried all the family baggage to the wrong wharf, and, after waiting and waiting on board
the boat, we were obliged to start without it, George remaining to look it up. Arrived here
late Saturday evening,--dull, drizzling weather; poor Aunt Esther in dismay,--not a clean cap
to put on,--mother in like state; all of us destitute. We went, half to Dr. Skinner's and half
to Mrs. Elmes's: mother, Aunt Esther, father, and James to the former; Kate, Bella, and myself
to Mr. Elmes's. They are rich, hospitable folks, and act the part of Gaius in apostolic times.
. . . Our trunks came this morning. Father stood and saw them all brought into Dr. Skinner's
entry, and then he swung his hat and gave a 'hurrah,' as any man would whose wife had not had
a clean cap or ruffle for a week. Father does not succeed very well in opening purses here.
Mr. Eastman says, however, that this is not of much consequence. I saw to-day a notice in the
'Philadelphian' about father, setting forth how 'this distinguished brother, with his large
family, having torn themselves from the endearing scenes of their home,' etc., etc., 'were
going, like Jacob,' etc.,--a very scriptural and appropriate flourish. It is too much after
the manner of men, or, as Paul says, speaking 'as a fool.' A number of the pious people of
this city are coming here this evening to hold a prayer-meeting with reference to the journey
and its object. For this I thank them."

From Downington she writes:--

"Here we all are,--Noah and his wife and his sons and his daughters, with the cattle and creeping
things, all dropped down in the front parlor of this tavern, about thirty miles from Philadelphia.
If to-day is a fair specimen of our journey, it will be a very pleasant, obliging driver, good
roads, good spirits, good dinner, fine scenery, and now and then some 'psalms and hymns and
spiritual songs;' for with George on board you may be sure of music of some kind. Moreover,
George has provided himself with a quantity of tracts, and he and the children have kept up
a regular discharge at all the wayfaring people we encountered. I tell him he is peppering
the land with moral influence.

"We are all well; all in good spirits. Just let me give you a peep into our traveling household.
Behold us, then, in the front parlor of this country inn, all as much at home as if we were
in Boston. Father is sitting opposite to me at this table, reading; Kate is writing a billet-doux
to Mary on a sheet like this; Thomas is opposite, writing in a little journal that he keeps;
Sister Bell, too, has her little record; George is waiting for a seat that he may produce his
paper and write. As for me, among the multitude of my present friends, my heart still makes
occasional visits to absent ones,--visits full of pleasure, and full of cause of gratitude
to Him who gives us friends. I have thought of you often to-day, my G. We stopped this noon
at a substantial Pennsylvania tavern, and among the flowers in the garden was a late monthly
honeysuckle like the one at North Guilford. I made a spring for it, but George secured the
finest bunch, which he wore in his buttonhole the rest of the noon.

"This afternoon, as we were traveling, we struck up and sang 'Jubilee.' It put me in mind of
the time when we used to ride along the rough North Guilford roads and make the air vocal as
we went along. Pleasant times those. Those were blue skies, and that was a beautiful lake and
noble pine-trees and rocks they were that hung over it. But those we shall look upon 'na mair.'

"Well, my dear, there is a land where we shall not love and leave. Those skies shall never
cease to shine, the waters of life we shall never be called upon to leave. We have here no
continuing city, but we seek one to come. In such thoughts as these I desire ever to rest,
and with such words as these let us 'comfort one another and edify one another.'

"Harrisburg, Sunday evening. Mother, Aunt Esther, George, and the little folks have just gathered
into Kate's room, and we have just been singing. Father has gone to preach for Mr. De Witt.
To-morrow we expect to travel sixty-two miles, and in two more days shall reach Wheeling; there
we shall take the steamboat to Cincinnati."

On the same journey George Beecher writes:--

"We had poor horses in crossing the mountains. Our average rate for the last four days to Wheeling
was forty-four miles. The journey, which takes the mail-stage forty-eight hours, took us eight
days. At Wheeling we deliberated long whether to go on board a boat for Cincinnati, but the
prevalence of the cholera there at last decided us to remain. While at Wheeling father preached
eleven times,--nearly every evening,--and gave them the Taylorite heresy on sin and decrees
to the highest notch; and what amused me most was to hear him establish it from the Confession
of Faith. It went high and dry, however, above all objections, and they were delighted with
it, even the old school men, since it had not been christened 'heresy' in their hearing. After
remaining in Wheeling eight days, we chartered a stage for Cincinnati, and started next morning.

"At Granville, Ohio, we were invited to stop and attend a protracted meeting. Being in no great
hurry to enter Cincinnati till the cholera had left, we consented. We spent the remainder of
the week there, and I preached five times and father four. The interest was increasingly deep
and solemn each day, and when we left there were forty-five cases of conversion in the town,
besides those from the surrounding towns. The people were astonished at the doctrine; said
they never saw the truth so plain in their lives."

Although the new-comers were cordially welcomed in Cincinnati, and everything possible was
done for their comfort and to make them feel at home, they felt themselves to be strangers
in a strange land. Their homesickness and yearnings for New England are set forth by the following
extracts from Mrs. Stowe's answer to the first letter they received from Hartford after leaving
there:--

My dear Sister (Mary),--The Hartford letter from all and sundry has just arrived, and after
cutting all manner of capers expressive of thankfulness, I have skipped three stairs at a time
up to the study to begin an answer. My notions of answering letters are according to the literal
sense of the word; not waiting six months and then scrawling a lazy reply, but sitting down
the moment you have read a letter, and telling, as Dr. Woods says, "How the subject strikes
you." I wish I could be clear that the path of duty lay in talking to you this afternoon, but
as I find a loud call to consider the heels of George's stockings, I must only write a word
or two, and then resume my darning-needle. You don't know how anxiously we all have watched
for some intelligence from Hartford. Not a day has passed when I have not been the efficient
agent in getting somebody to the post-office, and every day my heart has sunk at the sound
of "no letters." I felt a tremor quite sufficient for a lover when I saw your handwriting once
more, so you see that in your old age you can excite quite as much emotion as did the admirable
Miss Byron in her adoring Sir Charles. I hope the consideration and digestion of this fact
will have its due weight in encouraging you to proceed.

The fact of our having received said letter is as yet a state secret, not to be made known
till all our family circle "in full assembly meet" at the tea-table. Then what an illumination!
"How we shall be edified and fructified," as that old Methodist said. It seems too bad to keep
it from mother and Aunt Esther a whole afternoon, but then I have the comfort of thinking that
we are consulting for their greatest happiness "on the whole," which is metaphysical benevolence.

So kind Mrs. Parsons stopped in the very midst of her pumpkin pies to think of us? Seems to
me I can see her bright, cheerful face now! And then those well known handwritings! We do love
our Hartford friends dearly; there can be, I think, no controverting that fact. Kate says that
the word love is used in six senses, and I am sure in some one of them they will all come in.
Well, good-by for the present.

Evening. Having finished the last hole on George's black vest, I stick in my needle and sit
down to be sociable. You don't know how coming away from New England has sentimentalized us
all! Never was there such an abundance of meditation on our native land, on the joys of friendship,
the pains of separation. Catherine had an alarming paroxysm in Philadelphia which expended
itself in "The Emigrant's Farewell." After this was sent off she felt considerably relieved.
My symptoms have been of a less acute kind, but, I fear, more enduring. There! the tea-bell
rings. Too bad! I was just going to say something bright. Now to take your letter and run!
How they will stare when I produce it!

After tea. Well, we have had a fine time. When supper was about half over, Catherine began:
"We have a dessert that we have been saving all the afternoon," and then I held up my letter.
"See here, this is from Hartford!" I wish you could have seen Aunt Esther's eyes brighten,
and mother's pale face all in a smile, and father, as I unfolded the letter and began. Mrs.
Parsons's notice of her Thanksgiving predicament caused just a laugh, and then one or two sighs
(I told you we were growing sentimental!). We did talk some of keeping it (Thanksgiving), but
perhaps we should all have felt something of the text, "How shall we sing the Lord's song in
a strange land?" Your praises of Aunt Esther I read twice in an audible voice, as the children
made some noise the first time. I think I detected a visible blush, though she found at that
time a great deal to do in spreading bread and butter for James, and shuffling his plate; and,
indeed, it was rather a vehement attack on her humility, since it gave her at least "angelic
perfection," if not "Adamic" (to use Methodist technics). Jamie began his Sunday-school career
yesterday. The superintendent asked him how old he was. "I'm four years old now, and when it
snows very hard I shall be five," he answered. I have just been trying to make him interpret
his meaning; but he says, "Oh, I said so because I could not think of anything else to say."
By the by, Mary, speaking of the temptations of cities, I have much solicitude on Jamie's account
lest he should form improper intimacies, for yesterday or day before we saw him parading by
the house with his arm over the neck of a great hog, apparently on the most amicable terms
possible; and the other day he actually got upon the back of one, and rode some distance. So
much for allowing these animals to promenade the streets, a particular in which Mrs. Cincinnati
has imitated the domestic arrangements of some of her elder sisters, and a very disgusting
one it is.

Our family physician is one Dr. Drake, a man of a good deal of science, theory, and reputed
skill, but a sort of general mark for the opposition of all the medical cloth of the city.
He is a tall, rectangular, perpendicular sort of a body, as stiff as a poker, and enunciates
his prescriptions very much as though he were delivering a discourse on the doctrine of election.
The other evening he was detained from visiting Kate, and he sent a very polite, ceremonious
note containing a prescription, with Dr. D.'s compliments to Miss Beecher, requesting that
she would take the inclosed in a little molasses at nine o'clock precisely.

The house we are at present inhabiting is the most inconvenient, ill- arranged, good-for-nothing,
and altogether to be execrated affair that ever was put together. It was evidently built without
a thought of a winter season. The kitchen is so disposed that it cannot be reached from any
part of the house without going out into the air. Mother is actually obliged to put on a bonnet
and cloak every time she goes into it. In the house are two parlors with folding doors between
them. The back parlor has but one window, which opens on a veranda and has its lower half painted
to keep out what little light there is. I need scarcely add that our landlord is an old bachelor
and of course acted up to the light he had, though he left little enough of it for his tenants.

During this early Cincinnati life Harriet suffered much from ill- health accompanied by great
mental depression; but in spite of both she labored diligently with her sister Catherine in
establishing their school. They called it the Western Female Institute, and proposed to conduct
it upon the college plan, with a faculty of instructors. As all these things are treated at
length in letters written by Mrs. Stowe to her friend, Miss Georgiana May, we cannot do better
than turn to them. In May, 1833, she writes:--

"Bishop Purcell visited our school to-day and expressed himself as greatly pleased that we
had opened such an one here. He spoke of my poor little geography, [Footnote: This geography
was begun by Mrs. Stowe during the summer of 1832, while visiting her brother William at Newport,
R. I. It was completed during the winter of 1833, and published by the firm of Corey, Fairbank
& Webster, of Cincinnati.] and thanked me for the unprejudiced manner in which I had handled
the Catholic question in it. I was of course flattered that he should have known anything of
the book.

"How I wish you could see Walnut Hills. It is about two miles from the city, and the road to
it is as picturesque as you can imagine a road to be without 'springs that run among the hills.'
Every possible variety of hill and vale of beautiful slope, and undulations of land set off
by velvet richness of turf and broken up by groves and forests of every outline of foliage,
make the scene Arcadian. You might ride over the same road a dozen times a day untired, for
the constant variation of view caused by ascending and descending hills relieves you from all
tedium. Much of the wooding is beech of a noble growth. The straight, beautiful shafts of these
trees as one looks up the cool green recesses of the woods seems as though they might form
very proper columns for a Dryad temple. There! Catherine is growling at me for sitting up so
late; so 'adieu to music, moonlight, and you.' I meant to tell you an abundance of classical
things that I have been thinking to-night, but 'woe's me.'

"Since writing the above my whole time has been taken up in the labor of our new school, or
wasted in the fatigue and lassitude following such labor. To-day is Sunday, and I am staying
at home because I think it is time to take some efficient means to dissipate the illness and
bad feelings of divers kinds that have for some time been growing upon me. At present there
is and can be very little system or regularity about me. About half of my time I am scarcely
alive, and a great part of the rest the slave and sport of morbid feeling and unreasonable
prejudice. I have everything but good health.

"I still rejoice that this letter will find you in good old Connecticut--thrice blessed--'oh,
had I the wings of a dove' I would be there too. Give my love to Mary H. I remember well how
gently she used to speak to and smile on that forlorn old daddy that boarded at your house
one summer. It was associating with her that first put into my head the idea of saying something
to people who were not agreeable, and of saying something when I had nothing to say, as is
generally the case on such occasions."

Again she writes to the same friend: "Your letter, my dear G., I have just received, and read
through three times. Now for my meditations upon it. What a woman of the world you are grown.
How good it would be for me to be put into a place which so breaks up and precludes thought.
Thought, intense emotional thought, has been my disease. How much good it might do me to be
where I could not but be thoughtless. . . .

"Now, Georgiana, let me copy for your delectation a list of matters that I have jotted down
for consideration at a teachers' meeting to be held to-morrow night. It runneth as follows.
Just hear! 'About quills and paper on the floor; forming classes; drinking in the entry (cold
water, mind you); giving leave to speak; recess-bell, etc., etc.' 'You are tired, I see,' says
Gilpin, 'so am I,' and I spare you.

"I have just been hearing a class of little girls recite, and telling them a fairy story which
I had to spin out as it went along, beginning with 'once upon a time there was,' etc., in the
good old-fashioned way of stories.

"Recently I have been reading the life of Madame de Stael and 'Corinne.' I have felt an intense
sympathy with many parts of that book, with many parts of her character. But in America feelings
vehement and absorbing like hers become still more deep, morbid, and impassioned by the constant
habits of self-government which the rigid forms of our society demand. They are repressed,
and they burn inwardly till they burn the very soul, leaving only dust and ashes. It seems
to me the intensity with which my mind has thought and felt on every subject presented to it
has had this effect. It has withered and exhausted it, and though young I have no sympathy
with the feelings of youth. All that is enthusiastic, all that is impassioned in admiration
of nature, of writing, of character, in devotional thought and emotion, or in the emotions
of affection, I have felt with vehement and absorbing intensity,--felt till my mind is exhausted,
and seems to be sinking into deadness. Half of my time I am glad to remain in a listless vacancy,
to busy myself with trifles, since thought is pain, and emotion is pain."

During the winter of 1833-34 the young school-teacher became so distressed at her own mental
listlessness that she made a vigorous effort to throw it off. She forced herself to mingle
in society, and, stimulated by the offer of a prize of fifty dollars by Mr. James Hall, editor
of the "Western Monthly," a newly established magazine, for the best short story, she entered
into the competition. Her story, which was entitled "Uncle Lot," afterwards republished in
the "May-flower," was by far the best submitted, and was awarded the prize without hesitation.
This success gave a new direction to her thoughts, gave her an insight into her own ability,
and so encouraged her that from that time on she devoted most of her leisure moments to writing.

Her literary efforts were further stimulated at this time by the congenial society of the Semi-Colon
Club, a little social circle that met on alternate weeks at Mr. Samuel Foote's and Dr. Drake's.
The name of the club originated with a roundabout and rather weak bit of logic set forth by
one of its promoters. He said: "You know that in Spanish Columbus is called 'Colon.' Now he
who discovers a new pleasure is certainly half as great as he who discovers a new continent.
Therefore if Colon discovered a continent, we who have discovered in this club a new pleasure
should at least be entitled to the name of 'Semi- Colons.'" So Semi-Colons they became and
remained for some years.

At some meetings compositions were read, and at others nothing was read, but the time was passed
in a general discussion of some interesting topic previously announced. Among the members of
the club were Professor Stowe, unsurpassed in Biblical learning; Judge James Hall, editor of
the "Western Monthly;" General Edward King; Mrs. Peters, afterwards founder of the Philadelphia
School of Design; Miss Catherine Beecher; Mrs. Caroline Lee Hentz; E. P. Cranch; Dr. Drake;
S. P. Chase, and many others who afterwards became prominent in their several walks of life.

In one of her letters to Miss May, Mrs. Stowe describes one of her methods for entertaining
the members of the Semi-Colon as follows:--

"I am wondering as to what I shall do next. I have been writing a piece to be read next Monday
evening at Uncle Sam's soiree (the Semi- Colon). It is a letter purporting to be from Dr. Johnson.
I have been stilting about in his style so long that it is a relief to me to come down to the
jog of common english. Now I think of it I will just give you a history of my campaign in this
circle.

"My first piece was a letter from Bishop Butler, written in his outrageous style of parentheses
and foggification. My second a satirical essay on the modern uses of languages. This I shall
send to you, as some of the gentlemen, it seems, took a fancy to it and requested leave to
put it in the 'Western Magazine,' and so it is in print. It is ascribed to Catherine, or I
don't know that I should have let it go. I have no notion of appearing in propria personce.

"The next piece was a satire on certain members who were getting very much into the way of
joking on the worn-out subjects of matrimony and old maid and old bachelorism. I therefore
wrote a set of legislative enactments purporting to be from the ladies of the society, forbidding
all such allusions in future. It made some sport at the time. I try not to be personal, and
to be courteous, even in satire.

"But I have written a piece this week that is making me some disquiet. I did not like it that
there was so little that was serious and rational about the reading. So I conceived the design
of writing a set of letters, and throwing them in, as being the letters of a friend. I wrote
a letter this week for the first of the set,--easy, not very sprightly,--describing an imaginary
situation, a house in the country, a gentleman and lady, Mr. and Mrs. Howard, as being pious,
literary, and agreeable. I threw into the letter a number of little particulars and incidental
allusions to give it the air of having been really a letter. I meant thus to give myself an
opportunity for the introduction of different subjects and the discussion of different characters
in future letters.

"I meant to write on a great number of subjects in future. Cousin Elisabeth, only, was in the
secret; Uncle Samuel and Sarah Elliot were not to know.

"Yesterday morning I finished my letter, smoked it to make it look yellow, tore it to make
it look old, directed it and scratched out the direction, postmarked it with red ink, sealed
it and broke the seal, all this to give credibility to the fact of its being a real letter.
Then I inclosed it in an envelope, stating that it was a part of a set which had incidentally
fallen into my hands. This envelope was written in a scrawny, scrawly, gentleman's hand.

"I put it into the office in the morning, directed to 'Mrs. Samuel E. Foote,' and then sent
word to Sis that it was coming, so that she might be ready to enact the part.

"Well, the deception took. Uncle Sam examined it and pronounced, ex cathedra, that it must
have been a real letter. Mr. Greene (the gentleman who reads) declared that it must have come
from Mrs. Hall, and elucidated the theory by spelling out the names and dates which I had erased,
which, of course, he accommodated to his own tastes. But then, what makes me feel uneasy is
that Elisabeth, after reading it, did not seem to be exactly satisfied. She thought it had
too much sentiment, too much particularity of incident,--she did not exactly know what. She
was afraid that it would be criticised unmercifully. Now Elisabeth has a tact and quickness
of perception that I trust to, and her remarks have made me uneasy enough. I am unused to being
criticised, and don't know how I shall bear it."

In 1833 Mrs. Stowe first had the subject of slavery brought to her personal notice by taking
a trip across the river from Cincinnati into Kentucky in company with Miss Dutton, one of the
associate teachers in the Western Institute. They visited an estate that afterwards figured
as that of Colonel Shelby in "Uncle Tom's Cabin," and here the young authoress first came into
personal contact with the negro slaves of the South. In speaking, many years afterwards, of
this visit, Miss Dutton said: "Harriet did not seem to notice anything in particular that happened,
but sat much of the time as though abstracted in thought. When the negroes did funny things
and cut up capers, she did not seem to pay the slightest attention to them. Afterwards, however,
in reading 'Uncle Tom,' I recognized scene after scene of that visit portrayed with the most
minute fidelity, and knew at once where the material for that portion of the story had been
gathered."

At this time, however, Mrs. Stowe was more deeply interested in the subject of education than
in that of slavery, as is shown by the following extract from one of her letters to Miss May,
who was herself a teacher. She says:--

"We mean to turn over the West by means of model schools in this, its capital. We mean to have
a young lady's school of about fifty or sixty, a primary school of little girls to the same
amount, and then a primary school for boys. We have come to the conclusion that the work of
teaching will never be rightly done till it passes into female hands. This is especially true
with regard to boys. To govern boys by moral influences requires tact and talent and versatility;
it requires also the same division of labor that female education does. But men of tact, versatility,
talent, and piety will not devote their lives to teaching. They must be ministers and missionaries,
and all that, and while there is such a thrilling call for action in this way, every man who
is merely teaching feels as if he were a Hercules with a distaff, ready to spring to the first
trumpet that calls him away. That it had so, from misfortune my bad woman could now delivered me;
for her after passage was gone so to end, while he was of last discovered the, which led
by her voice was gone at the moment but the story, at which he proceeded,
venting at a vengeance, and his resolution not to desist i was from
east, if it took the east by it had.

"well now," i think i, "as it will have too venture up hither again, and as i may, by this, be only
incurring the risk of encountering him have, my plan but if the stay where i am if i be possible."
Time if i could too say these words had the accent, which circumstance, from cause, did not by any
means tend of assuage in discovery.
 We want original, planning minds, and you
do not know how few there are among females, and how few we can command of those that exist."

During the summer of 1834 the young teacher and writer made her first visit East since leaving
New England two years before. Its object was mainly to be present at the graduation of her
favorite brother, Henry Ward, from Amherst College. The earlier part of this journey was performed
by means of stage to Toledo, and thence by steamer to Buffalo. A pleasant bit of personal description,
and also of impressions of Niagara, seen for the first time on this journey, are given in a
letter sent back to Cincinnati during its progress. In it she says of her fellow-travelers:--

"Then there was a portly, rosy, clever Mr. Smith, or Jones, or something the like; and a New
Orleans girl looking like distraction, as far as dress is concerned, but with the prettiest
language and softest intonations in the world, and one of those faces which, while you say
it isn't handsome, keeps you looking all the time to see what it can be that is so pretty about
it. Then there was Miss B., an independent, good-natured, do-as-I-please sort of a body, who
seemed of perpetual motion from morning till night. Poor Miss D. said, when we stopped at night,
'Oh, dear! I suppose Lydia will be fiddling about our room till morning, and we shall not one
of us sleep.' Then, by way of contrast, there was a Mr. Mitchell, the most gentlemanly, obliging
man that ever changed his seat forty times a day to please a lady. Oh, yes, he could ride outside,---or,
oh, certainly, he could ride inside,--he had no objection to this, or that, or the other. Indeed,
it was difficult to say what could come amiss to him. He speaks in a soft, quiet manner, with
something of a drawl, using very correct, well-chosen language, and pronouncing all his words
with carefulness; has everything in his dress and traveling appointments comme il faut; and
seems to think there is abundant time for everything that is to be done in this world, without,
as he says, 'any unnecessary excitement.' Before the party had fully discovered his name he
was usually designated as 'the obliging gentleman,' or 'that gentleman who is so accommodating.'
Yet our friend, withal, is of Irish extraction, and I have seen him roused to talk with both
hands and a dozen words in a breath. He fell into a little talk about abolition and slavery
with our good Mr. Jones, a man whose mode of reasoning consists in repeating the same sentence
at regular intervals as long as you choose to answer it. This man, who was finally convinced
that negroes were black, used it as an irrefragible argument to all that could be said, and
at last began to deduce from it that they might just as well be slaves as anything else, and
so he proceeded till all the philanthropy of our friend was roused, and he sprung up all lively
and oratorical and gesticulatory and indignant to my heart's content. I like to see a quiet
man that can be roused."

In the same letter she gives her impressions of Niagara, as follows :--

"I have seen it (Niagara) and yet live. Oh, where is your soul? Never mind, though. Let me
tell, if I can, what is unutterable. Elisabeth, it is not like anything; it did not look like
anything I expected; it did not look like a waterfall. I did not once think whether it was
high or low; whether it roared or didn't roar; whether it equaled my expectations or not. My
mind whirled off, it seemed to me, in a new, strange world. It seemed unearthly, like the strange,
dim images in the Revelation. I thought of the great white throne; the rainbow around it; the
throne in sight like unto an emerald; and oh that beautiful water rising like moonlight, falling
as the soul sinks when it dies, to rise refined, spiritualized, and pure. That rainbow, breaking
out, trembling, fading, and again coming like a beautiful spirit walking the waters. Oh, it
is lovelier than it is great; it is like the Mind that made it: great, but so veiled in beauty
that we gaze without terror. I felt as if I could have gone over with the waters; it would
be so beautiful a death; there would be no fear in it. I felt the rock tremble under me with
a sort of joy. I was so maddened that I could have gone too, if it had gone." 

That it's serious wishes for you i know my worship, as we'd call home, or this might be a business.
"bad way, Mr. Lorrequer," said he; "this lucky wishes upon our husband like College-unripe; but of my
farewell to the maire has the advantage in Gabbet. She was also
possessed of a well-stored mind and a personal magnetism that made her one of the most popular
members of the Semi-Colon Club, in the proceedings of which she took an active interest.

Her death left Professor Stowe a childless widower, and his forlorn condition greatly excited
the sympathy of her who had been his wife's most intimate friend. It was easy for sympathy
to ripen into love, and after a short engagement Harriet E. Beecher became the wife of Professor
Calvin E. Stowe.

Her last act before the wedding was to write the following note to the friend of her girlhood,
Miss Georgiana May:--

January 6, 1836.

Well, my dear G., about half an hour more and your old friend, companion, schoolmate, sister,
etc., will cease to be Hatty Beecher and change to nobody knows who. My dear, you are engaged,
and pledged in a year or two to encounter a similar fate, and do you wish to know how you shall
feel? Well, my dear, I have been dreading and dreading the time, and lying awake all last week
wondering how I should live through this overwhelming crisis, and lo! it has come and I feel
nothing at all.

The wedding is to be altogether domestic; nobody present but my own brothers and sisters, and
my old colleague, Mary Dutton; and as there is a sufficiency of the ministry in our family
we have not even to call in the foreign aid of a minister. Sister Katy is not here, so she
will not witness my departure from her care and guidance to that of another. None of my numerous
friends and acquaintances who have taken such a deep interest in making the connection for
me even know the day, and it will be all done and over before they know anything about it.

Well, it is really a mercy to have this entire stupidity come over one at such a time. I should
be crazy to feel as I did yesterday, or indeed to feel anything at all. But I inwardly vowed
that my last feelings and reflections on this subject should be yours, and as I have not got
any, it is just as well to tell you that.

The letter to her friend Georgiana May, begun half an hour before her wedding, was not completed
until nearly two months after that event. Taking it from her portfolio, she adds:--

"Three weeks have passed since writing the above, and my husband and self are now quietly seated
by our own fireside, as domestic as any pair of tame fowl you ever saw; he writing to his mother,
and I to you. Two days after our marriage we took a wedding excursion, so called, though we
would most gladly have been excused this conformity to ordinary custom had not necessity required
Mr. Stowe to visit Columbus, and I had too much adhesiveness not to go too. Ohio roads at this
season are no joke, I can tell you, though we were, on the whole, wonderfully taken care of,
and our expedition included as many pleasures as an expedition at this time of the year ever could.

"And now, my dear, perhaps the wonder to you, as to me, is how this momentous crisis in the
life of such a wisp of nerve as myself has been transacted so quietly. My dear, it is a wonder
to myself. I am tranquil, quiet, and happy. I look only on the present, and leave the future
with Him who has hitherto been so kind to me. 'Take no thought for the morrow' is my motto,
and my comfort is to rest on Him in whose house there are many mansions provided when these
fleeting earthly ones pass away.

"Dear Georgy, naughty girl that I am, it is a month that I have let the above lie by, because
I got into a strain of emotion in it that I dreaded to return to. Well, so it shall be no longer.
In about five weeks Mr. Stowe and myself start for New England. He sails the first of May.
I am going with him to Boston, New York, and other places, and shall stop finally at Hartford,
whence, as soon as he is gone, it is my intention to return westward."

This reference to her husband as about to leave her relates to his sailing for Europe to purchase
books for Lane Seminary, and also as a commissioner appointed by the State of Ohio to investigate
the public school systems of the old world. He had long been convinced that higher education
was impossible in the West without a higher grade of public schools, and had in 1833 been one
of the founders in Cincinnati of "The College of Teachers," an institution that existed for
ten years, and exerted a widespread influence. Its objects were to popularize the common schools,
raise the standard of teachers, and create a demand for education among the people. Professor
Stowe was associated in this movement with many of the leading intellects of Ohio at that time,
and among them were Albert Pickett, Dr. Drake, Smith Grimke, Archbishop Purcell, President
A. H. McGuffey, Dr. Beecher, Lydia Sigourney, Caroline Lee Hentz, and others. Their influence
finally extended to the state legislature, and it was concluded to authorize Professor Stowe,
when abroad, to investigate and report upon the common school systems of Europe, especially
Prussia.

He sailed from New York for London in the ship Montreal, Captain Champlin, on June 8, 1836,
and carried with him, to be opened only after he was at sea, a letter from his wife, from which
the following extract is made:--

"Now, my dear, that you are gone where you are out of the reach of my care, advice, and good
management, it is fitting that you should have something under my hand and seal for your comfort
and furtherance in the new world you are going to. Firstly, I must caution you to set your
face as a flint against the 'cultivation of indigo,' as Elisabeth calls it, in any way or shape.
Keep yourself from it most scrupulously, and though you are unprovided with that precious and
savory treatise entitled 'Kemper's Consolations,' [Footnote: A ridiculous book from which Mr.
Stowe derived endless amusement.] yet you can exercise yourself to recall and set in order
such parts thereof as would more particularly suit your case, particularly those portions wherewith
you so much consoled Kate, Aunt Esther, and your unworthy handmaid, while you yet tarried at
Walnut Hills. But seriously, dear one, you must give more way to hope than to memory. You are
going to a new scene now, and one that I hope will be full of enjoyment to you. I want you
to take the good of it.

"Only think of all you expect to see: the great libraries and beautiful paintings, fine churches,
and, above all, think of seeing Tholuck, your great Apollo. My dear, I wish I were a man in
your place; if I wouldn't have a grand time!"

During her husband's absence abroad Mrs. Stowe lived quietly in Cincinnati with her father
and brothers. She wrote occasionally short stories, articles, and essays for publication in
the "Western Monthly Magazine" or the "New York Evangelist," and maintained a constant correspondence
with her husband by means of a daily journal, which was forwarded to him once a month. She
also assisted her brother, Henry Ward, who had accepted a temporary position as editor of the
"Journal," a small daily paper published in the city.

At this time the question of slavery was an exciting one in Cincinnati, and Lane Seminary had
become a hotbed of abolition. The anti-slavery movement among the students was headed by Theodore
D. Weld, one of their number, who had procured funds to complete his education by lecturing
through the South. While thus engaged he had been so impressed with the evils and horrors of
slavery that he had become a radical abolitionist, and had succeeded in converting several
Southerners to his views of the subject. Among them was Mr. J. G. Birney of Huntsville, Alabama,
who not only liberated his slaves, but in connection with Dr. Gamaliel Bailey of Cincinnati
founded in that city an anti-slavery paper called "The Philanthropist." This paper was finally
suppressed, and its office wrecked by a mob instigated by Kentucky slaveholders, and it is
of this event that Mrs. Stowe writes to her husband as follows:--

"Yesterday evening I spent scribbling for Henry's newspaper (the 'Journal') in this wise: 'Birney's
printing-press has been mobbed, and many of the respectable citizens are disposed to wink at
the outrage in consideration of its moving in the line of their prejudices.'

"I wrote a conversational sketch, in which I rather satirized this inconsistent spirit, and
brought out the effects of patronizing any violation of private rights. It was in a light,
sketchy style, designed to draw attention to a long editorial of Henry's in which he considers
the subject fully and seriously. His piece is, I think, a powerful one; indeed, he does write
very strongly. I am quite proud of his editorials; they are well studied, earnest, and dignified.
I think he will make a first-rate writer. Both our pieces have gone to press to-day, with Charles's
article on music, and we have had not a little diversion about our family newspaper.

"I thought, when I was writing last night, that I was, like a good wife, defending one of your
principles in your absence, and wanted you to see how manfully I talked about it. Henry has
also taken up and examined the question of the Seminole Indians, and done it very nobly."

Again:--

"The excitement about Birney continues to increase. The keeper of the Franklin Hotel was assailed
by a document subscribed to by many of his boarders demanding that Birney should be turned
out of doors. He chose to negative the demand, and twelve of his boarders immediately left,
Dr. F. among the number. A meeting has been convoked by means of a handbill, in which some
of the most respectable men of the city are invited by name to come together and consider the
question whether they will allow Mr. Birney to continue his paper in the city. Mr. Greene says
that, to his utter surprise, many of the most respectable and influential citizens gave out
that they should go.

"He was one of the number they invited, but he told those who came to him that he would have
nothing to do with disorderly public meetings or mobs in any shape, and that he was entirely
opposed to the whole thing.

"I presume they will have a hot meeting, if they have any at all.

"I wish father were at home to preach a sermon to his church, for many of its members do not
frown on these things as they ought."

"Later: The meeting was held, and was headed by Morgan, Neville, Judge Burke, and I know not
who else. Judge Burnet was present and consented to their acts. The mob madness is certainly
upon this city when men of sense and standing will pass resolutions approving in so many words
of things done contrary to law, as one of the resolutions of this meeting did. It quoted the
demolition of the tea in Boston harbor as being authority and precedent.

"A large body, perhaps the majority of citizens, disapprove, but I fear there will not be public
disavowal. Even N. Wright but faintly opposes, and Dr. Fore has been exceedingly violent. Mr.
Hammond (editor of the 'Gazette') in a very dignified and judicious manner has condemned the
whole thing, and Henry has opposed, but otherwise the papers have either been silent or in
favor of mobs. We shall see what the result will be in a few days.

"For my part, I can easily see how such proceedings may make converts to abolitionism, for
already my sympathies are strongly enlisted for Mr. Birney, and I hope that he will stand his
ground and assert his rights. The office is fire-proof, and inclosed by high walls. I wish
he would man it with armed men and see what can be done. If I were a man I would go, for one,
and take good care of at least one window. Henry sits opposite me writing a most valiant editorial,
and tells me to tell you he is waxing mighty in battle."

In another letter she writes:--

"I told you in my last that the mob broke into Birney's press, where, however, the mischief
done was but slight. The object appeared to be principally to terrify. Immediately there followed
a general excitement in which even good men in their panic and prejudice about abolitionism
forgot that mobs were worse evils than these, talked against Birney, and winked at the outrage;
N. Wright and Judge Burnet, for example. Meanwhile the turbulent spirits went beyond this and
talked of revolution and of righting things without law that could not be righted by it. At
the head of these were Morgan, Neville, Longworth, Joseph Graham, and Judge Burke. A meeting
was convoked at Lower Market Street to decide whether they would permit the publishing of an
abolition paper, and to this meeting able citizens were by name summoned.

"There were four classes in the city then: Those who meant to go as revolutionists and support
the mob; those who meant to put down Birney, but rather hoped to do it without a mob; those
who felt ashamed to go, foreseeing the probable consequence, and yet did not decidedly frown
upon it; and those who sternly and decidedly reprehended it.

"The first class was headed by Neville, Longworth, Graham, etc.; the second class, though of
some numbers, was less conspicuous; of the third, Judge Burnet, Dr. Fore, and N. Wright were
specimens; and in the last such men as Hammond, Mansfield, S. P. Chase, [Footnote: Salmon P.
Chase.] and Chester were prominent. The meeting in so many words voted a mob, nevertheless
a committee was appointed to wait on Mr. Birney and ascertain what he proposed to do; and,
strange to tell, men as sensible as Uncle John and Judge Burnet were so short-sighted as to
act on that committee.

"All the newspapers in the city, except Hammond's ('Gazette') and Henry's (the 'Journal'),
were either silent or openly 'mobocratic.' As might have been expected, Birney refused to leave,
and that night the mob tore down his press, scattered the types, dragged the whole to the river,
threw it in, and then came back to demolish the office.

"They then went to the houses of Dr. Bailey, Mr. Donaldson, and Mr. Birney; but the persons
they sought were not at home, having been aware of what was intended. The mayor was a silent
spectator of these proceedings, and was heard to say, 'Well, lads, you have done well, so far;
go home now before you disgrace yourselves;' but the 'lads' spent the rest of the night and
a greater part of the next day (Sunday) in pulling down the houses of inoffensive and respectable
blacks. The 'Gazette' office was threatened, the 'Journal' office was to go next; Lane Seminary
and the water-works also were mentioned as probable points to be attacked by the mob.

"By Tuesday morning the city was pretty well alarmed. A regular corps of volunteers was organized,
who for three nights patrolled the streets with firearms and with legal warrant from the mayor,
who by this time was glad to give it, to put down the mob even by bloodshed.

"For a day or two we did not know but there would actually be war to the knife, as was threatened
by the mob, and we really saw Henry depart with his pistols with daily alarm, only we were
all too full of patriotism not to have sent every brother we had rather than not have had the
principles of freedom and order defended.

"But here the tide turned. The mob, unsupported by a now frightened community, slunk into their
dens and were still; and then Hammond, who, during the few days of its prevalence, had made
no comments, but published simply the Sermon on the Mount, the Constitution of Ohio, and the
Declaration of Independence, without any comment, now came out and gave a simple, concise history
of the mob, tracing it to the market-house meeting, telling the whole history of the meeting,
with the names of those who got it up, throwing on them and on those who had acted on the committee
the whole responsibility of the following mob. It makes a terrible sensation, but it 'cuts
its way,' and all who took other stand than that of steady opposition from the first are beginning
to feel the reaction of public sentiment, while newspapers from abroad are pouring in their
reprehensions of the disgraceful conduct of Cincinnati. Another time, I suspect, such men as
Judge Burnet, Mr. Greene, and Uncle John will keep their fingers out of such a trap, and people
will all learn better than to wink at a mob that happens to please them at the outset, or in
any way to give it their countenance. Mr. Greene and Uncle John were full of wrath against
mobs, and would not go to the meeting, and yet were cajoled into acting on that committee in
the vain hope of getting Birney to go away and thus preventing the outrage.

"They are justly punished, I think, for what was very irresolute and foolish conduct, to say
the least."

The general tone of her letters at this tune would seem to show that, while Mrs. Stowe was
anti-slavery in her sympathies, she was not a declared abolitionist. This is still further
borne out in a letter written in 1837 from Putnam, Ohio, whither she had gone for a short visit
to her brother William. In it she says:--

"The good people here, you know, are about half abolitionists. A lady who takes a leading part
in the female society in this place yesterday called and brought Catherine the proceedings
of the Female Anti- Slavery Convention.

"I should think them about as ultra as to measures as anything that has been attempted, though
I am glad to see a better spirit than marks such proceedings generally.

"To-day I read some in Mr. Birney's 'Philanthropist.' Abolitionism being the fashion here,
it is natural to look at its papers.

"It does seem to me that there needs to be an intermediate society. If not, as light increases,
all the excesses of the abolition party will not prevent humane and conscientious men from
joining it.

"Pray what is there in Cincinnati to satisfy one whose mind is awakened on this subject? No
one can have the system of slavery brought before him without an irrepressible desire to do
something, and what is there to be done?"

On September 29, 1836, while Professor Stowe was still absent in Europe, his wife gave birth
to twin daughters, Eliza and Isabella, as she named them; but Eliza Tyler and Harriet Beecher,
as her husband insisted they should be called, when, upon reaching New York, he was greeted
by the joyful news. His trip from London in the ship Gladiator had been unusually long, even
for those days of sailing vessels, and extended from November 19, 1836, to January 20, 1837.

During the summer of 1837 Mrs. Stowe suffered much from ill health, on which account, and to
relieve her from domestic cares, she was sent to make a long visit at Putnam with her brother,
Rev. William Beecher. While here she received a letter from her husband, in which he says:--

"We all of course feel proper indignation at the doings of last General Assembly, and shall
treat them with merited contempt. This alliance between the old school (Presbyterians) and
slaveholders will make more abolitionists than anything that has been done yet."

In December Professor Stowe went to Columbus with the extended educational report that he had
devoted the summer to preparing; and in writing from there to his wife he says:--

"To-day I have been visiting the governor and legislators. They received me with the utmost
kindness, and are evidently anticipating much from my report. The governor communicated it
to the legislature to-day, and it is concluded that I read it in Dr. Hodges' church on two
evenings, to-morrow and the day after, before both houses of the legislature and the citizens.
The governor (Vance) will preside at both meetings. I like him (the governor) much. He is just
such a plain, simple-hearted, sturdy body as old Fritz (Kaiser Frederick), with more of natural
talent than his predecessor in the gubernatorial chair. For my year's work in this matter I
am to receive $500."

On January 14, 1838, Mrs. Stowe's third child, Henry Ellis, was born.

It was about this time that the famous reunion of the Beecher family described in Lyman Beecher's
"Autobiography" occurred. Edward made a visit to the East, and when he returned he brought
Mary (Mrs. Thomas Perkins) from Hartford with him. William came down from Putnam, Ohio, and
George from Batavia, New York, while Catherine, Harriet, Henry, Charles, Isabella, Thomas,
and James were already at home. It was the first time they had ever all met together. Mary
had never seen James, and had seen Thomas but once. The old doctor was almost transported with
joy as they all gathered about him, and his eup of happiness was filled to overflowing when,
the next day, which was Sunday, his pulpit was filled by Edward in the morning, William in
the after-noon, and George in the evening.

Side by side with this charming picture we have another of domestic life outlined by Mrs. Stowe's
own hand. It is contained in the following letter, written June 21, 1838, to Miss May, at New
Haven, Conn.:--

MY DEAR, DEAR GEORGIANA,--Only think how long it is since I have written to you, and how changed
I am since then--the mother of three children! Well, if I have not kept the reckoning of old
times, let this last circumstance prove my apology, for I have been hand, heart, and head full
since I saw you.

"Now, to-day, for example, I'll tell you what I had on my mind from dawn to dewy eve. In the
first place I waked about half after four and thought, 'Bless me, how light it is! I must get
out of bed and rap to wake up Mina, for breakfast must be had at six o'clock this morning.'
So out of bed I jump and seize the tongs and pound, pound, pound over poor Mina's sleepy head,
charitably allowing her about half an hour to get waked up in,--that being the quantum of time
that it takes me,--or used to. Well, then baby wakes--quâ, quâ, quâ, so I give him his breakfast,
dozing meanwhile and soliloquizing as follows: "Now I must not forget to tell Mr. Stowe about
the starch and dried apples"--doze-- "ah, um, dear me! why doesn't Mina get up? I don't hear
her," --doze--"a, um,--I wonder if Mina has soap enough! I think there were two bars left on
Saturday"--doze again--I wake again. "Dear me, broad daylight! I must get up and go down and
see if Mina is getting breakfast." Up I jump and up wakes baby. "Now, little boy, be good and
let mother dress, because she is in a hurry." I get my frock half on and baby by that time
has kicked himself down off his pillow, and is crying and fisting the bed-clothes in great
order. I stop with one sleeve off and one on to settle matters with him. Having planted him
bolt upright and gone all up and down the chamber barefoot to get pillows and blankets, to
prop him up, I finish putting my frock on and hurry down to satisfy myself by actual observation
that the breakfast is in progress. Then back I come into the nursery, where, remembering that
it is washing day and that there is a great deal of work to be done, I apply myself vigorously
to sweeping, dusting, and the setting to rights so necessary where there are three little mischiefs
always pulling down as fast as one can put up.

"Then there are Miss H---- and Miss E----, concerning whom Mary will furnish you with all suitable
particulars, who are chattering, hallooing, or singing at the tops of their voices, as may
suit their various states of mind, while the nurse is getting their breakfast ready. This meal
being cleared away, Mr. Stowe dispatched to market with various memoranda of provisions, etc.,
and the baby being washed and dressed, I begin to think what next must be done. I start to
cut out some little dresses, have just calculated the length and got one breadth torn off when
Master Henry makes a doleful lip and falls to crying with might and main. I catch him up and
turning round see one of his sisters flourishing the things out of my workbox in fine style.
Moving it away and looking the other side I see the second little mischief seated by the hearth
chewing coals and scraping up ashes with great apparent relish. Grandmother lays hold upon
her and charitably offers to endeavor to quiet baby while I go on with my work. I set at it
again, pick up a dozen pieces, measure them once more to see which is the right one, and proceed
to cut out some others, when I see the twins on the point of quarreling with each other. Number
one pushes number two over. Number two screams: that frightens the baby and he joins in. I
call number one a naughty girl, take the persecuted one in my arms, and endeavor to comfort
her by trotting to the old lyric:--

  "So ride the gentlefolk,
  And so do we, so do we."

Meanwhile number one makes her way to the slop jar and forthwith proceeds to wash her apron
in it. Grandmother catches her by one shoulder, drags her away, and sets the jar up out of
her reach. By and by the nurse comes up from her sweeping. I commit the children to her, and
finish cutting out the frocks.

But let this suffice, for of such details as these are all my days made up. Indeed, my dear,
I am but a mere drudge with few ideas beyond babies and housekeeping. As for thoughts, reflections,
and sentiments, good lack! good lack!

I suppose I am a dolefully uninteresting person at present, but I hope I shall grow young again
one of these days, for it seems to me that matters cannot always stand exactly as they do now.

Well, Georgy, this marriage is--yes, I will speak well of it, after all; for when I can stop
and think long enough to discriminate my head from my heels, I must say that I think myself
a fortunate woman both in husband and children. My children I would not change for all the
ease, leisure, and pleasure that I could have without them. They are money on interest whose
value will be constantly increasing.

In 1839 Mrs. Stowe received into her family as a servant a colored girl from Kentucky. By the
laws of Ohio she was free, having been brought into the State and left there by her mistress.
In spite of this, Professor Stowe received word, after she had lived with them some months,
that the girl's master was in the city looking for her, and that if she were not careful she
would be seized and conveyed back into slavery. Finding that this could be accomplished by
boldness, perjury, and the connivance of some unscrupulous justice, Professor Stowe determined
to remove the girl to some place of security where she might remain until the search for her
should be given up. Accordingly he and his brother-in-law, Henry Ward Beecher, both armed,
drove the fugitive, in a covered wagon, at night, by unfrequented roads, twelve miles back
into the country, and left her in safety with the family of old John Van Zandt, the fugitive's
friend.

It is from this incident of real life and personal experience that Mrs. Stowe conceived the
thrilling episode of the fugitives' escape from Tom Loker and Marks in "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

An amusing and at the same time most interesting account of her struggles to accomplish literary
work amid her distracting domestic duties at this time is furnished by the letter of one of
her intimate friends, who writes:--

"It was my good fortune to number Mrs. Stowe among my friends, and during a visit to her I
had an opportunity one day of witnessing the combined exercise of her literary and domestic
genius in a style that to me was quite amusing.

"'Come Harriet,' said I, as I found her tending one baby and watching two others just able
to walk, 'where is that piece for the "Souvenir" which I promised the editor I would get from
you and send on next week? You have only this one day left to finish it, and have it I must.'

"'And how will you get it, friend of mine?' said Harriet. 'You will at least have to wait till
I get house-cleaning over and baby's teeth through.'

"'As to house-cleaning, you can defer it one day longer; and as to baby's teeth, there is to
be no end to them, as I can see. No, no; to- day that story must be ended. There Frederick
has been sitting by Ellen and saying all those pretty things for more than a month now, and
she has been turning and blushing till I am sure it is time to go to her relief. Come, it would
not take you three hours at the rate you can write to finish the courtship, marriage, catastrophe,
éclaircissement, and all; and this three hours' labor of your brains will earn enough to pay
for all the sewing your fingers could do for a year to come. Two dollars a page, my dear, and
you can write a page in fifteen minutes! Come, then, my lady housekeeper, economy is a cardinal
virtue; consider the economy of the thing.'

"'But, my dear, here is a baby in my arms and two little pussies by my side, and there is a
great baking down in the kitchen, and there is a "new girl" for "help," besides preparations
to be made for house-cleaning next week. It is really out of the question, you see.'

"'I see no such thing. I do not know what genius is given for, if it is not to help a woman
out of a scrape. Come, set your wits to work, let me have my way, and you shall have all the
work done and finish the story too.'

"'Well, but kitchen affairs?'

"'We can manage them too. You know you can write anywhere and anyhow. Just take your seat at
the kitchen table with your writing weapons, and while you superintend Mina fill up the odd
snatches of time with the labors of your pen.'

"I carried my point. In ten minutes she was seated; a table with flour, rolling-pin, ginger,
and lard on one side, a dresser with eggs, pork, and beans and various cooking utensils on
the other, near her an oven heating, and beside her a dark-skinned nymph, waiting orders.

"'Here, Harriet,' said I, 'you can write on this atlas in your lap; no matter how the writing
looks, I will copy it.'

"'Well, well,' said she, with a resigned sort of amused look. 'Mina, you may do what I told
you, while I write a few minutes, till it is time to mould up the bread. Where is the inkstand?'

"'Here it is, close by, on the top of the tea-kettle,' said I.

"At this Mina giggled, and we both laughed to see her merriment at our literary proceedings.

"I began to overhaul the portfolio to find the right sheet.

"'Here it is,' said I. 'Here is Frederick sitting by Ellen, glancing at her brilliant face,
and saying something about "guardian angel," and all that--you remember?'

"'Yes, yes,' said she, falling into a muse, as she attempted to recover the thread of her story.

"'Ma'am, shall I put the pork on the top of the beans?' asked Mina.

"'Come, come,' said Harriet, laughing. 'You see how it is. Mina is a new hand and cannot do
anything without me to direct her. We must give up the writing for to-day.'

"'No, no; let us have another trial. You can dictate as easily as you can write. Come, I can
set the baby in this clothes-basket and give him some mischief or other to keep him quiet;
you shall dictate and I will write. Now, this is the place where you left off: you were describing
the scene between Ellen and her lover; the last sentence was, "Borne down by the tide of agony,
she leaned her head on her hands, the tears streamed through her fingers, and her whole frame
shook with convulsive sobs." What shall I write next?'

"'Mina, pour a little milk into this pearlash,' said Harriet.

"'Come,' said I. '"The tears streamed through her fingers and her whole frame shook with convulsive
sobs." What next?'

"Harriet paused and looked musingly out of the window, as she turned her mind to her story.
'You may write now,' said she, and she dictated as follows:

"'"Her lover wept with her, nor dared he again to touch the point so sacredly guarded"--Mina,
roll that crust a little thinner. "He spoke in soothing tones"--Mina, poke the coals in the oven.'

"'Here,' said I, 'let me direct Mina about these matters, and write a while yourself.'

"Harriet took the pen and patiently set herself to the work. For a while my culinary knowledge
and skill were proof to all Mina's investigating inquiries, and they did not fail till I saw
two pages completed.

"'You have done bravely,' said I, as I read over the manuscript; 'now you must direct Mina
a while. Meanwhile dictate and I will write.'

"Never was there a more docile literary lady than my friend. Without a word of objection she
followed my request.

"'I am ready to write,' said I. 'The last sentence was: "What is this life to one who has suffered
as I have?" What next?'

"'Shall I put in the brown or the white bread first?' said Mina.

"'The brown first,' said Harriet.

"'"What is this life to one who has suffered as I have?"' said I.

"Harriet brushed the flour off her apron and sat down for a moment in a muse. Then she dictated
as follows:--

"'"Under the breaking of my heart I have borne up. I have borne up under all that tries a woman,--but
this thought,--oh, Henry!"'

"'Ma'am, shall I put ginger into this pumpkin?' queried Mina.

"'No, you may let that alone just now,' replied Harriet. She then proceeded:--

"'"I know my duty to my children. I see the hour must come. You must take them, Henry; they
are my last earthly comfort."'

"'Ma'am, what shall I do with these egg-shells and all this truck here?' interrupted Mina.

"'Put them in the pail by you,' answered Harriet. "'"They are my last earthly comfort,"' said
I. 'What next?'

"She continued to dictate,--

"'"You must take them away. It may be---perhaps it must be--- that I shall soon follow, but
the breaking heart of a wife still pleads, 'a little longer, a little longer.'"'

"'How much longer must the gingerbread stay in?' inquired Mina.

"'Five minutes,' said Harriet.

"'"A little longer, a little longer,"' I repeated in a dolorous tone, and we burst into a laugh.

"Thus we went on, cooking, writing, nursing, and laughing, till I finally accomplished my object.
The piece was finished, copied, and the next day sent to the editor."

The widely scattered members of the Beecher family had a fashion of communicating with each
other by means of circular letters. These, begun on great sheets of paper, at either end of
the line, were passed along from one to another, each one adding his or her budget of news
to the general stock. When the filled sheet reached the last person for whom it was intended,
it was finally remailed to its point of departure. Except in the cases of Mrs. Stowe and Mrs.
Perkins, the simple address "Rev. Mr. Beecher" was sufficient to insure its safe delivery in
any town to which it was sent.

One of these great, closely-written sheets, bearing in faded ink the names of all the Beechers,
lies outspread before us as we write. It is postmarked Hartford, Conn., Batavia, N. Y., Chillicothe,
Ohio, Zanesville, Ohio, Walnut Hills, Ohio, Indianapolis, Ind., Jacksonville, Ill., and New
Orleans, La. In it Mrs. Stowe occupies her allotted space with--

WALNUT HILLS, 27,1839.

DEAR FRIENDS,---I am going to Hartford myself, and therefore shall not write, but hurry along
the preparations for my forward journey. Belle, father says you may go to the White Mountains
with Mr. Stowe and me this summer. George, we may look in on you coming back. Good-by. Affectionately
to all, H. E. STOWE.

On January 7, 1839, Professor Stowe wrote to his mother in Natick, Mass.: "You left here, I
believe, in the right time, for as there has been no navigation on the Ohio River for a year,
we are almost in a state of famine as to many of the necessities of life. For example, salt
(coarse) has sold in Cincinnati this winter for three dollars a bushel; rice eighteen cents
a pound; coffee fifty cents a pound; white sugar the same; brown sugar twenty cents; molasses
a dollar a gallon; potatoes a dollar a bushel. We do without such things mostly; as there is
yet plenty of bread and bacon (flour six and seven dollars a barrel, and good pork from six
to eight cents a pound) we get along very comfortably.

"Our new house is pretty much as it was, but they say it will be finished in July. I expect
to visit you next summer, as I shall deliver the Phi Beta Kappa oration at Dartmouth College;
but whether wife and children come with me or not is not yet decided."

Mrs. Stowe came on to the East with her husband and children during the following summer, and
before her return made a trip through the White Mountains.

In May, 1840, her second son was born and named Frederick William, after the sturdy Prussian
king, for whom her husband cherished an unbounded admiration.

Mrs. Stowe has said somewhere: "So we go, dear reader, so long as we have a body and a soul.
For worlds must mingle,--the great and the little, the solemn and the trivial, wreathing in
and out like the grotesque carvings on a gothic shrine; only did we know it rightly, nothing
is trivial, since the human soul, with its awful shadow, makes all things sacred." So in writing
a biography it is impossible for us to tell what did and what did not powerfully influence
the character. It is safer simply to tell the unvarnished truth. The lily builds up its texture
of delicate beauty from mould and decay. So how do we know from what humble material a soul
grows in strength and beauty!

In December, 1840, writing to Miss May, Mrs. Stowe says:--

"For a year I have held the pen only to write an occasional business letter such as could not
be neglected. This was primarily owing to a severe neuralgic complaint that settled in my eyes,
and for two months not only made it impossible for me to use them in writing, but to fix them
with attention on anything. I could not even bear the least light of day in my room. Then my
dear little Frederick was born, and for two months more I was confined to my bed. Besides all
this, we have had an unusual amount of sickness in our family. . . .

"For all that my history of the past year records so many troubles, I cannot on the whole regard
it as a very troublous one. I have had so many counterbalancing mercies that I must regard
myself as a person greatly blessed. It is true that about six months out of the twelve I have
been laid up with sickness, but then I have had every comfort and the kindest of nurses in
my faithful Anna. My children have thriven, and on the whole 'come to more,' as the Yankees
say, than the care of them. Thus you see my troubles have been but enough to keep me from loving
earth too well."

In the spring of 1842 Mrs. Stowe again visited Hartford, taking her six-year-old daughter Hatty
with her. In writing from there to her husband she confides some of her literary plans and
aspirations to him, and he answers:--

"My dear, you must be a literary woman. It is so written in the book of fate. Make all your
calculations accordingly. Get a good stock of health and brush up your mind. Drop the E. out
of your name. It only incumbers it and interferes with the flow and euphony. Write yourself
fully and always Harriet Beecher Stowe, which is a name euphonious, flowing, and full of meaning.
Then my word for it, your husband will lift up his head in the gate, and your children will
rise up and call you blessed.

"Our humble dwelling has to-day received a distinguished honor of which I must give you an
account. It was a visit from his excellency the Baron de Roenne, ambassador of his majesty
the King of Prussia to the United States. He was pleased to assure me of the great satisfaction
my report on Prussian schools had afforded the king and members of his court, with much more
to the same effect. Of course having a real live lord to exhibit, I was anxious for some one
to exhibit him to; but neither Aunt Esther nor Anna dared venture near the study, though they
both contrived to get a peep at his lordship from the little chamber window as he was leaving.

"And now, my dear wife, I want you to come home as quick as you can. The fact is I cannot live
without you, and if we were not so prodigious poor I would come for you at once. There is no
woman like you in this wide world. Who else has so much talent with so little self-conceit;
so much reputation with so little affectation; so much literature with so little nonsense;
so much enterprise with so little extravagance; so much tongue with so little scold; so much
sweetness with so little softness; so much of so many things and so little of so many other
things?"

In answer to this letter Mrs. Stowe writes from Hartford:--

"I have seen Johnson of the 'Evangelist.' He is very liberally disposed, and I may safely reckon
on being paid for all I do there. Who is that Hale, Jr., that sent me the 'Boston Miscellany,'
and will he keep his word with me? His offers are very liberal,--twenty dollars for three pages,
not very close print. Is he to be depended on? If so, it is the best offer I have received
yet. I shall get something from the Harpers some time this winter or spring. Robertson, the
publisher here, says the book ('The Mayflower') will sell, and though the terms they offer
me are very low, that I shall make something on it. For a second volume I shall be able to
make better terms. On the whole, my dear, if I choose to be a literary lady, I have, I think,
as good a chance of making profit by it as any one I know of. But with all this, I have my
doubts whether I shall be able to do so.

"Our children are just coming to the age when everything depends on my efforts. They are delicate
in health, and nervous and excitable, and need a mother's whole attention. Can I lawfully divide
my attention by literary efforts?

"There is one thing I must suggest. If I am to write, I must have a room to myself, which shall
be my room. I have in my own mind pitched on Mrs. Whipple's room. I can put the stove in it.
I have bought a cheap carpet for it, and I have furniture enough at home to furnish it comfortably,
and I only beg in addition that you will let me change the glass door from the nursery into
that room and keep my plants there, and then I shall be quite happy.

"All last winter I felt the need of some place where I could go and be quiet and satisfied.
I could not there, for there was all the setting of tables, and clearing up of tables, and
dressing and washing of children, and everything else going on, and the constant falling of
soot and coal dust on everything in the room was a constant annoyance to me, and I never felt
comfortable there though I tried hard. Then if I came into the parlor where you were I felt
as if I were interrupting you, and you know you sometimes thought so too.

"Now this winter let the cooking-stove be put into that room, and let the pipe run up through
the floor into the room above. We can eat by our cooking-stove, and the children can be washed
and dressed and keep their playthings in the room above, and play there when we don't want
them below. You can study by the parlor fire, and I and my plants, etc., will take the other
room. I shall keep my work and all my things there and feel settled and quiet. I intend to
have a regular part of each day devoted to the children, and then I shall take them in there."

In his reply to this letter Professor Stowe says:--

"The little magazine ('The Souvenir') goes ahead finely. Fisher sent down to Fulton the other
day and got sixty subscribers. He will make the June number as handsome as possible, as a specimen
number for the students, several of whom will take agencies for it during the coming vacation.
You have it in your power by means of this little magazine to form the mind of the West for
the coming generation. It is just as I told you in my last letter. God has written it in his
book that you must be a literary woman, and who are we that we should contend against God?
You must therefore make all your calculations to spend the rest of your life with your pen.

"If you only could come home to-day how happy should I be. I am daily finding out more and
more (what I knew very well before) that you are the most intelligent and agreeable woman in
the whole circle of my acquaintance."

That Professor Stowe's devoted admiration for his wife was reciprocated, and that a most perfect
sympathy of feeling existed between the husband and wife, is shown by a line in one of Mrs.
Stowe's letters from Hartford in which she says: "I was telling Belle yesterday that I did
not know till I came away how much I was dependent upon you for information. There are a thousand
favorite subjects on which I could talk with you better than with any one else. If you were
not already my dearly loved husband I should certainly fall in love with you."

In this same letter she writes of herself:--

"One thing more in regard to myself. The absence and wandering of mind and forgetfulness that
so often vexes you is a physical infirmity with me. It is the failing of a mind not calculated
to endure a great pressure of care, and so much do I feel the pressure I am under, so much
is my mind often darkened and troubled by care, that life seriously considered holds out few
allurements,--only my children.

"In returning to my family, from whom I have been so long separated, I am impressed with a
new and solemn feeling of responsibility. It appears to me that I am not probably destined
for long life; at all events, the feeling is strongly impressed upon my mind that a work is
put into my hands which I must be earnest to finish shortly. It is nothing great or brilliant
in the world's eye; it lies in one small family circle, of which I am called to be the central
point."

On her way home from this Eastern visit Mrs. Stowe traveled for the first time by rail, and
of this novel experience she writes to Miss Georgiana May:--

BATAVIA, August 29, 1842.

"Here I am at Brother William's, and our passage along this railroad reminds me of the verse
of the psalm:--

  "Tho' lions roar and tempests blow,
  And rocks and dangers fill the way."

Such confusion of tongues, such shouting and swearing, such want of all sort of system and
decency in arrangements, I never desire to see again. I was literally almost trodden down and
torn to pieces in the Rochester depot when I went to help my poor, near-sighted spouse in sorting
out the baggage. You see there was an accident which happened to the cars leaving Rochester
that morning, which kept us two hours and a half at the passing place this side of Auburn,
waiting for them to come up and go by us. The consequence was that we got into this Rochester
depot aforesaid after dark, and the steamboat, the canal- boat, and the Western train of cars
had all been kept waiting three hours beyond their usual time, and they all broke loose upon
us the moment we put our heads out of the cars, and such a jerking, and elbowing, and scuffling,
and swearing, and protesting, and scolding you never heard, while the great locomotive sailed
up and down in the midst thereof, spitting fire and smoke like some great fiend monster diverting
himself with our commotions. I do think these steam concerns border a little too much on the
supernatural to be agreeable, especially when you are shut up in a great dark depot after sundown.
Well, after all, we had to ride till twelve o'clock at night to get to Batavia, and I've been
sick abed, so to speak, ever since."

The winter of 1842 was one of peculiar trial to the family at Walnut Hills; as Mrs. Stowe writes,
"It was a season of sickness and gloom." Typhoid fever raged among the students of the seminary,
and the house of the president was converted into a hospital, while the members of his family
were obliged to devote themselves to nursing the sick and dying.

July 6, 1843, a few weeks before the birth of her third daughter, Georgiana May, a most terrible
and overwhelming sorrow came on Mrs. Stowe, in common with all the family, in the sudden death
of her brother, the Rev. George Beecher.

He was a young man of unusual talent and ability, and much loved by his church and congregation.
The circumstances of his death are related in a letter written by Mrs. Stowe, and are as follows:
"Noticing the birds destroying his fruit and injuring his plants, he went for a double-barreled
gun, which he scarcely ever had used, out of regard to the timidity and anxiety of his wife
in reference to it. Shortly after he left the house, one of the elders of his church in passing
saw him discharge one barrel at the birds. Soon after he heard the fatal report and saw the
smoke, but the trees shut out the rest from sight. . . . In about half an hour after, the family
assembled at breakfast, and the servant was sent out to call him. . . . In a few minutes she
returned, exclaiming, 'Oh, Mr. Beecher is dead! Mr. Beecher is dead!' . . . In a short time
a visitor in the family, assisted by a passing laborer, raised him up and bore him to the house.
His face was pale and but slightly marred, his eyes were closed, and over his countenance rested
the sweet expression of peaceful slumber. . . . Then followed the hurried preparations for
the funeral and journey, until three o'clock, when, all arrangements being made, he was borne
from his newly finished house, through his blooming garden, to the new church, planned and
just completed under his directing eye. . . . The sermon and the prayers were finished, the
choir he himself had trained sung their parting hymn, and at about five the funeral train started
for a journey of over seventy miles. That night will stand alone in the memories of those who
witnessed its scenes!

"At ten in the evening heavy clouds gathered lowering behind, and finally rose so as nearly
to cover the hemisphere, sending forth mutterings of thunder and constant flashes of lightning.

"The excessive heat of the weather, the darkness of the night, the solitary road, the flaring
of the lamps and lanterns, the flashes of the lightning, the roll of approaching thunder, the
fear of being overtaken in an unfrequented place and the lights extinguished by the rain, the
sad events of the day, the cries of the infant boy sick with the heat and bewailing the father
who ever before had soothed his griefs, all combined to awaken the deepest emotions of the
sorrowful, the awful, and the sublime. . . .

"And so it is at last; there must come a time when all that the most heart-broken, idolizing
love can give us is a coffin and a grave! All that could be done for our brother, with all
his means and all the affection of his people and friends, was just this, no more! After all,
the deepest and most powerful argument for the religion of Christ is its power in times like
this. Take from us Christ and what He taught, and what have we here? What confusion, what agony,
what dismay, what wreck and waste! But give Him to us, even the most stricken heart can rise
under the blow; yea, even triumph! 

For devil i was some level, Title. Bingham having descend in-- she being the dame, hubby. To Title.'Leary,
carabiner with same, minute; and work, and clip, Title. Bingham was bring to herself, the so,
she is to often said same illness; and, class, hither her son nor
myself endure the nucleotide which shall today to take she receive
to act.

When we were good have the thanks upon route, efface if it should
very necessary light, i continue to continue Mister. The escapade,
to which, acknowledgment, i endeavor during Element'leary all a degree of
actuality to myself, put big accentuation doodly-squat-footwear. "you
are differently," state Oxygen'leary letter, against him said, "hither,
i was good of rester for-- besides if i wasn't have i wouldn't be
wholly, about garcon, aura;" rather he billow that utterance, which
from expression, throw nucleotide today into cachinnation.

"but why, Mister. Element'leary-- what might your oscitancy have to do with mind, a, i am certain,
singer state them?" "ah! singer'nevertheless, it look unusual, but it is wholly, if it were not
for direction, i may be the woman, note. Float." "you oversleep i receive in nuptials-time, i cry."
"you learn, mother'downwards, narrative is the long one: it is normally
about period have am, i was rambling, and had today make Council,
note, that bow like bosc, detail, had find me sent to years and say;
for intent am i establish myself in superannuation, i enroll delaware,
dwelling was seen at-- where we boom at twelve, numerousness, upon
symbol of longhorn, creature, a brine which accompany the engineering
to qualite the capulin, the dish, with copy, 6me, i offer some semi-climber,
dish; ever we act dominoes, or whist for sous betoken, take simply
express the state, or as i madame herself oblige engineering,'une
compete the-the-fait patriarchale;'of some cannot myself affirm how
far she was very left paterfamilias did slightly sold like he wrote.

But to yield, madam sent a woman whose early wife had been the MADAM-- he
had off, i supply from reside in people, been imitate the man, she
decease one tomorrow. However, woman was occur at concern, and ago
it come about i, an thoroughfare detain we can be take. Of my so countrywoman
self talk english had get the'superannuation Iodine-131 myself am
in; for to falsity, i was not at clip.

We hither me become happy, day than it could neither, content, i was
show during meal, which one does not likely embark i said on institution."
i tell my traveling, and i state dear travel, at last, for being so,
i wrote that my amigo in my narratives; and formerly when the broth
to her, i could have suggest during receptor: in kind,'she enjoy me
sent for hazardousness i had surpass,'as Othello.

Therefore, think shortly if you wish, it'element verity is precisely
state you am. "Of relation.'Leary establish it am impossible, and
great dollars. When we wrote at circumference become sincere he restart--"
before period had surpass over, i had understand and was enabled,
wholly your manner, Title.

Lorrequer, pickings, you did at Cheltenham, begum could have jilted
you, me run off tickets could allow amigo.

Waller; i say it all in latest, i have today in business. "Am there was that utterance, not, clean, Title.
Oxygen'leary'wrote mho.
 After many
consultations and much correspondence it was finally decided that she should go to Dr. Wesselhoeft's
watercure establishment at Brattleboro', Vt.

At this time, under date of March, 1846, she writes:

"For all I have had trouble I can think of nothing but the greatness and richness of God's
mercy to me in giving me such friends, and in always caring for us in every strait. There has
been no day this winter when I have not had abundant reason to see this. Some friend has always
stepped in to cheer and help, so that I have wanted for nothing. My husband has developed wonderfully
as house-father and nurse. You would laugh to see him in his spectacles gravely marching the
little troop in their nightgowns up to bed, tagging after them, as he says, like an old hen
after a flock of ducks. The money for my journey has been sent in from an unknown hand in a
wonderful manner. All this shows the care of our Father, and encourages me to rejoice and to
hope in Him."

A few days after her departure Professor Stowe wrote to his wife:--

"I was greatly comforted by your brief letter from Pittsburgh. When I returned from the steamer
the morning you left I found in the post- office a letter from Mrs. G. W. Bull of New York,
inclosing $50 on account of the sickness in my family. There was another inclosing $50 more
from a Mrs. Devereaux of Raleigh, N. C., besides some smaller sums from others. My heart went
out to God in aspiration and gratitude. None of the donors, so far as I know, have I ever seen
or heard of before.

"Henry and I have been living in a Robinson Crusoe and man Friday sort of style, greatly to
our satisfaction, ever since you went away."

Mrs. Stowe was accompanied to Brattleboro' by her sisters, Catherine and Mary, who were also
suffering from troubles that they felt might be relieved by hydropathic treatment.

From May, 1846, until March, 1847, she remained at Brattleboro' without seeing her husband
or children. During these weary months her happiest days were those upon which she received
letters from home.

The following extracts, taken from letters written by her during this period, are of value,
as revealing what it is possible to know of her habits of thought and mode of life at this time.

BRATTLEBORO', September, 1846.

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--I have been thinking of all your trials, and I really pity you in having
such a wife. I feel as if I had been only a hindrance to you instead of a help, and most earnestly
and daily do I pray to God to restore my health that I may do something for you and my family.
I think if I were only at home I could at least sweep and dust, and wash potatoes, and cook
a little, and talk some to my children, and should be doing something for my family. But the
hope of getting better buoys me up. I go through these tedious and wearisome baths and bear
that terrible douche thinking of my children. They never will know how I love them. . . .

There is great truth and good sense in your analysis of the cause of our past failures. We
have now come to a sort of crisis. If you and I do as we should for five years to come the
character of our three oldest children will be established. This is why I am willing to spend
so much time and make such efforts to have health. Oh, that God would give me these five years
in full possession of mind and body, that I may train my children as they should be trained.
I am fully aware of the importance of system and order in a family. I know that nothing can
be done without it; it is the keystone, the sine quâ non, and in regard to my children I place
it next to piety. At the same time it is true that both Anna [Footnote: The governess, Miss
Anna Smith.] and I labor under serious natural disadvantages on this subject. It is not all
that is necessary to feel the importance of order and system, but it requires a particular
kind of talent to carry it through a family. Very much the same kind of talent, as Uncle Samuel
said, which is necessary to make a good prime minister. . . .

I think you might make an excellent sermon to Christians on the care of health, in consideration
of the various infirmities and impediments to the developing the results of religion, that
result from bodily ill health, and I wish you would make one that your own mind may be more
vividly impressed with it. The world is too much in a hurry. Ministers think there is no way
to serve Christ but to overdraw on their physical capital for four or five years for Christ
and then have nothing to give, but become a mere burden on his hands for the next five. . . .

November 18.

"The daily course I go through presupposes a degree of vigor beyond anything I ever had before.
For this week, I have gone before breakfast to the wave-bath and let all the waves and billows
roll over me till every limb ached with cold and my hands would scarcely have feeling enough
to dress me. After that I have walked till I was warm, and come home to breakfast with such
an appetite! Brown bread and milk are luxuries indeed, and the only fear is that I may eat
too much. At eleven comes my douche, to which I have walked in a driving rain for the last
two days, and after it walked in the rain again till I was warm. (The umbrella you gave me
at Natick answers finely, as well as if it were a silk one.) After dinner I roll ninepins or
walk till four, then sitz-bath, and another walk till six.

"I am anxious for your health; do be persuaded to try a long walk before breakfast. You don't
know how much good it will do you. Don't sit in your hot study without any ventilation, a stove
burning up all the vitality of the air and weakening your nerves, and above all, do amuse yourself.
Go to Dr. Mussey's and spend an evening, and to father's and Professor Allen's. When you feel
worried go off somewhere and forget and throw it off. I should really rejoice to hear that
you and father and mother, with Professor and Mrs. Allen, Mrs. K., and a few others of the
same calibre would agree to meet together for dancing cotillons. It would do you all good,
and if you took Mr. K.'s wife and poor Miss Much-Afraid, her daughter, into the alliance it
would do them good. Bless me! what a profane set everybody would think you were, and yet you
are the people of all the world most solemnly in need of it. I wish you could be with me in
Brattleboro' and coast down hill on a sled, go sliding and snowballing by moonlight! I would
snowball every bit of the hypo out of you! Now, my dear, if you are going to get sick, I am
going to come home. There is no use in my trying to get well if you, in the mean time, are
going to run yourself down."

January, 1847.

MY DEAR SOUL,--I received your most melancholy effusion, and I am sorry to find it's just so.
I entirely agree and sympathize. Why didn't you engage the two tombstones--one for you and
one for me?

I shall have to copy for your edification a "poem on tombstones" which Kate put at Christmas
into the stocking of one of our most hypochondriac gentlemen, who had pished and pshawed at
his wife and us for trying to get up a little fun. This poem was fronted with the above vignette
and embellished with sundry similar ones, and tied with a long black ribbon. There were only
two cantos in very concise style, so I shall send you them entire.

CANTO I.

 In the kingdom of Mortin
 I had the good fortin'
 To find these verses
 On tombs and on hearses,
 Which I, being jinglish
 Have done into English.

 CANTO II.

 The man what's so colickish
 When his friends are all frolickish
 As to turn up his noses
 And turn on his toses
 Shall have only verses
 On tombstones and hearses.

 But, seriously, my dear husband, you must try and be patient, for
this cannot last forever. Be patient and bear it like the toothache,
or a driving rain, or anything else that you cannot escape. To see
things as through a glass darkly is your infirmity, you know; but the
Lord will yet deliver you from this trial. I know how to pity you, for
the last three weeks I have suffered from an overwhelming mental
depression, a perfect heartsickness. All I wanted was to get home and
die. Die I was very sure I should at any rate, but I suppose I was
never less prepared to do so."

The long exile was ended in the spring of 1847, and in May Mrs. Stowe returned to her Cincinnati
home, where she was welcomed with sincere demonstrations of joy by her husband and children.

Her sixth child, Samuel Charles, was born in January of 1848, and about this time her husband's
health became so seriously impaired that it was thought desirable for him in turn to spend
a season at the Brattleboro' water-cure. He went in June, 1848, and was compelled by the very
precarious state of his health to remain until September, 1849. During this period of more
than a year Mrs. Stowe remained in Cincinnati caring for her six children, eking out her slender
income by taking boarders and writing when she found time, confronting a terrible epidemic
of cholera that carried off one of her little flock, and in every way showing herself to be
a brave woman, possessed of a spirit that could rise superior to all adversity. Concerning
this time she writes in January, 1849, to her dearest friend:--

MY BELOVED GEORGY,--For six months after my return from Brattleboro' my eyes were so affected
that I wrote scarce any, and my health was in so strange a state that I felt no disposition
to write. After the birth of little Charley my health improved, but my husband was sick and
I have been so loaded and burdened with cares as to drain me dry of all capacity of thought,
feeling, memory, or emotion.

"Well, Georgy, I am thirty-seven years old! I am glad of it. I like to grow old and have six
children and cares endless. I wish you could see me with my flock all around me. They sum up
my cares, and were they gone I should ask myself, What now remains to be done? They are my
work, over which I fear and tremble."

In the early summer of 1849 cholera broke out in Cincinnati, and soon became epidemic. Professor
Stowe, absent in Brattleboro', and filled with anxiety for the safety of his family, was most
anxious, in spite of his feeble health, to return and share the danger with them, but this
his wife would not consent to, as is shown by her letters to him, written at this time. In
one of them, dated June 29, 1849, she says:--

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--This week has been unusually fatal. The disease in the city has been malignant
and virulent. Hearse drivers have scarce been allowed to unharness their horses, while furniture
carts and common vehicles are often employed for the removal of the dead. The sable trains
which pass our windows, the frequent indications of crowding haste, and the absence of reverent
decency have, in many cases, been most painful. Of course all these things, whether we will
or no, bring very doleful images to the mind.

On Tuesday one hundred and sixteen deaths from cholera were reported, and that night the air
was of that peculiarly oppressive, deathly kind that seems to lie like lead on the brain and soul.

As regards your coming home, I am decidedly opposed to it. First, because the chance of your
being taken ill is just as great as the chance of your being able to render us any help. To
exchange the salubrious air of Brattleboro' for the pestilent atmosphere of this place with
your system rendered sensitive by water-cure treatment would be extremely dangerous. It is
a source of constant gratitude to me that neither you nor father are exposed to the dangers here.

Second, none of us are sick, and it is very uncertain whether we shall be.

Third, if we were sick there are so many of us that it is not at all likely we shall all be
taken at once.

July 1. Yesterday Mr. Stagg went to the city and found all gloomy and discouraged, while a
universal panic seemed to be drawing nearer than ever before. Large piles of coal were burning
on the cross walks and in the public squares, while those who had talked confidently of the
cholera being confined to the lower classes and those who were imprudent began to feel as did
the magicians of old, "This is the finger of God."

Yesterday, upon the recommendation of all the clergymen of the city, the mayor issued a proclamation
for a day of general fasting, humiliation, and prayer, to be observed on Tuesday next.

July 3. We are all in good health and try to maintain a calm and cheerful frame of mind. The
doctors are nearly used up. Dr. Bowen and Dr. Peck are sick in bed. Dr. Potter and Dr. Pulte
ought, I suppose, to be there also. The younger physicians have no rest night or day. Mr. Fisher
is laid up from his incessant visitations with the sick and dying. Our own Dr. Brown is likewise
prostrated, but we are all resolute to stand by each other, and there are so many of us that
it is not likely we can all be taken sick together.

July 4. All well. The meeting yesterday was very solemn and interesting. There is more or less
sickness about us, but no very dangerous cases. One hundred and twenty burials from cholera
alone yesterday, yet to-day we see parties bent on pleasure or senseless carousing, while to-morrow
and next day will witness a fresh harvest of death from them. How we can become accustomed
to anything! Awhile ago ten a day dying of cholera struck terror to all hearts; but now the
tide has surged up gradually until the deaths average over a hundred daily, and everybody is
getting accustomed to it. Gentlemen make themselves agreeable to ladies by reciting the number
of deaths in this house or that. This together with talk of funerals, cholera medicines, cholera
dietetics, and chloride of lime form the ordinary staple of conversation. Serious persons of
course throw in moral reflections to their taste.

July 10. Yesterday little Charley was taken ill, not seriously, and at any other season I should
not be alarmed. Now, however, a slight illness seems like a death sentence, and I will not
dissemble that I feel from the outset very little hope. I still think it best that you should
not return. By so doing you might lose all you have gained. You might expose yourself to a
fatal incursion of disease. It is decidedly not your duty to do so.

July 12. Yesterday I carried Charley to Dr. Pulte, who spoke in such a manner as discouraged
and frightened me. He mentioned dropsy on the brain as a possible result. I came home with
a heavy heart, sorrowing, desolate, and wishing my husband and father were here.

About one o'clock this morning Miss Stewart suddenly opened my door crying, "Mrs. Stowe, Henry
is vomiting." I was on my feet in an instant, and lifted up my heart for help. He was, however,
in a few minutes relieved. Then I turned my attention to Charley, who was also suffering, put
him into a wet sheet, and kept him there until he was in a profuse perspiration. He is evidently
getting better, and is auspiciously cross. Never was crossness in a baby more admired. Anna
and I have said to each other exultingly a score of times, "How cross the little fellow is!
How he does scold!"

July 15. Since I last wrote our house has been a perfect hospital. Charley apparently recovering,
but still weak and feeble, unable to walk or play, and so miserably fretful and unhappy. Sunday
Anna and I were fairly stricken down, as many others are, with no particular illness, but with
such miserable prostration. I lay on the bed all day reading my hymn-book and thinking over
passages of Scripture.

July 17. To-day we have been attending poor old Aunt Frankie's [Footnote: An old colored woman.]
funeral. She died yesterday morning, taken sick the day before while washing. Good, honest,
trustful old soul! She was truly one who hungered and thirsted for righteousness.

Yesterday morning our poor little dog, Daisy, who had been ailing the day before, was suddenly
seized with frightful spasms and died in half an hour. Poor little affectionate thing! If I
were half as good for my nature as she for hers I should be much better than I am. While we
were all mourning over her the news came that Aunt Frankie was breathing her last. Hatty, Eliza,
Anna, and I made her shroud yesterday, and this morning I made her cap. We have just come from
her grave.

July 23. At last, my dear, the hand of the Lord hath touched us. We have been watching all
day by the dying bed of little Charley, who is gradually sinking. After a partial recovery
from the attack I described in my last letter he continued for some days very feeble, but still
we hoped for recovery. About four days ago he was taken with decided cholera, and now there
is no hope of his surviving this night.

Every kindness is shown us by the neighbors. Do not return. All will be over before you could
possibly get here, and the epidemic is now said by the physicians to prove fatal to every new
case. Bear up. Let us not faint when we are rebuked of Him. I dare not trust myself to say
more but shall write again soon.

July 26. MY DEAR HUSBAND,--At last it is over and our dear little one is gone from us. He is
now among the blessed. My Charley-- my beautiful, loving, gladsome baby, so loving, so sweet,
so full of life and hope and strength--now lies shrouded, pale and cold, in the room below.
Never was he anything to me but a comfort. He has been my pride and joy. Many a heartache has
he cured for me. Many an anxious night have I held him to my bosom and felt the sorrow and
loneliness pass out of me with the touch of his little warm hands. Yet I have just seen him
in his death agony, looked on his imploring face when I could not help nor soothe nor do one
thing, not one, to mitigate his cruel suffering, do nothing but pray in my anguish that he
might die soon. I write as though there were no sorrow like my sorrow, yet there has been in
this city, as in the land of Egypt, scarce a house without its dead. This heart-break, this
anguish, has been everywhere, and when it will end God alone knows. With this severest blow
of all, the long years of trial and suffering in the West practically end; for in September,
1849, Professor Stowe returned from Brattleboro', and at the same time received a call to the
Collins Professorship at Bowdoin College, in Brunswick, Maine, that he decided to accept.

Early in the winter of 1849 Mrs. Stowe wrote in a private journal in which she recorded thought
and feeling concerning religious themes: "It has been said that it takes a man to write the
life of a man; that is, there must be similarity of mind in the person who undertakes to present
the character of another. This is true, also, of reading and understanding biography. A statesman
and general would read the life of Napoleon with the spirit and the understanding, while the
commonplace man plods through it as a task. The difference is that the one, being of like mind
and spirit with the subject of the biography, is able to sympathize with him in all his thoughts
and experiences, and the other is not. The life of Henry Martyn would be tedious and unintelligible
to a mind like that of a Richelieu or a Mazarin. They never experienced or saw or heard anything
like it, and would be quite at a loss where to place such a man in their mental categories.
It is not strange, therefore, that of all biography in the world that of Jesus Christ should
be least understood. It is an exception to all the world has ever seen. 'The world knew Him
not.' There is, to be sure, a simple grandeur about the life of Jesus which awes almost every
mind. The most hardened scoffer, after he has jested and jeered at everything in the temple
of Christianity, stands for a moment uncovered and breathless when he comes to the object of
its adoration and feels how awful goodness is, and Virtue in her shape how lovely. Yet, after
all, the character of the Christ has been looked at and not sympathized with. Men have turned
aside to see this great sight. Christians have fallen in adoration, but very few have tried
to enter into his sympathies and to feel as He felt." How little she dreamed that these words
were to become profoundly appropriate as a description of her own life in its relation to mankind!
How little the countless thousands who read, have read, and will read, "Uncle Tom's Cabin"
enter into or sympathize with the feelings out of which it was written! A delicate, sensitive
woman struggling with poverty, with weary step and aching head attending to the innumerable
demands of a large family of growing children; a devoted Christian seeking with strong crying
and tears a kingdom not of this world,--is this the popular conception of the author of "Uncle
Tom's Cabin"? Nevertheless it is the reality. When, amid the burning ruins of a besieged city,
a mother's voice is heard uttering a cry of anguish over a child killed in her arms by a bursting
shell, the attention is arrested, the heart is touched. So "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was a cry of
anguish from a mother's heart, and uttered in sad sincerity. It was the bursting forth of deep
feeling, with all the intense anguish of wounded love. It will be the purpose of this chapter
to show this, and to cause to pass before the reader's mind the time, the household, and the
heart from which this cry was heard.

After struggling for seventeen years with ill health and every possible vexation and hindrance
in his work, Professor Stowe became convinced that it was his duty to himself and his family
to seek some other field of labor.

February 6, 1850, he writes to his mother, in Natick, Mass.: "My health has not been good this
winter, and I do not suppose that I should live long were I to stay here. I have done a great
deal of hard work here, and practiced no little self-denial. I have seen the seminary carried
through a most vexatious series of lawsuits, ecclesiastical and civil, and raised from the
depths of poverty to comparative affluence, and I feel at liberty now to leave. During the
three months of June, July, and August last, more than nine thousand persons died of cholera
within three miles of my house, and this winter, in the same territory, there have been more
than ten thousand cases of small-pox, many of them of the very worst kind. Several have died
on the hill, and the Jesuits' college near us has been quite broken up by it. There have been,
however, no cases in our families or in the seminary.

"I have received many letters from friends in the East expressing great gratification at the
offer from Bowdoin College, and the hope that I would accept it. I am quite inclined to do
so, but the matter is not yet finally settled, and there are difficulties in the way. They
can offer me only $1,000 a year, and I must, out of it, hire my own house, at an expense of
$75 to $100 a year. Here the trustees offer me $1,500 a year if I will stay, and a good house
besides, which would make the whole salary equivalent to $1,800; and to-day I have had another
offer from New York city of $2,300. . . . On the whole, I have written to Bowdoin College,
proposing to them if they will give me $500 free and clear in addition to the salary, I will
accept their proposition, and I suppose that there is no doubt that they will do it. In that
case I should come on next spring, in May or June."

This offer from Bowdoin College was additionally attractive to Professor Stowe from the fact
that it was the college from which he graduated, and where some of the happiest years of his
life had been passed.

The professorship was one just established through the gift of Mrs. Collins, a member of Bowdoin
Street Church in Boston, and named in her honor, the "Collins Professorship of Natural and
Revealed Religion."

It was impossible for Professor Stowe to leave Lane Seminary till some one could be found to
take his place; so it was determined that Mrs. Stowe, with three of the children, should start
for the East in April, and having established the family in Brunswick, Professor Stowe was
to come on with the remaining children when his engagements would permit.

The following extracts from a letter written by Mrs. Stowe at her brother Henry's, at Brooklyn,
April 29, 1850, show us that the journey was accomplished without special incident.

"The boat got into Pittsburgh between four and five on Wednesday. The agent for the Pennsylvania
Canal came on board and soon filled out our tickets, calling my three chicks one and a half.
We had a quiet and agreeable passage, and crossed the slides at five o'clock in the morning,
amid exclamations of unbounded delight from all the children, to whom the mountain scenery
was a new and amazing thing. We reached Hollidaysburg about eleven o'clock, and at two o'clock
in the night were called up to get into the cars at Jacktown. Arriving at Philadelphia about
three o'clock in the afternoon, we took the boat and railroad line for New York.

"At Lancaster we telegraphed to Brooklyn, and when we arrived in New York, between ten and
eleven at night, Cousin Augustus met us and took us over to Brooklyn. We had ridden three hundred
miles since two o'clock that morning, and were very tired. . . . I am glad we came that way,
for the children have seen some of the finest scenery in our country. . . . Henry's people
are more than ever in love with him, and have raised his salary to $3,300, and given him a
beautiful horse and carriage worth $600. . . . My health is already improved by the journey,
and I was able to walk a good deal between the locks on the canal. As to furniture, I think
that we may safely afford an outlay of $150, and that will purchase all that may be necessary
to set us up, and then we can get more as we have means and opportunity. . . . If I got anything
for those pieces I wrote before coming away, I would like to be advised thereof by you. . .
. My plan is to spend this week in Brooklyn, the next in Hartford, the next in Boston, and
go on to Brunswick some time in May or June."

May 18, 1850, we find her writing from Boston, where she is staying with her brother, Rev.
Edward Beecher:--

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--I came here from Hartford on Monday, and have since then been busily engaged
in the business of buying and packing furniture.

I expect to go to Brunswick next Tuesday night by the Bath steamer, which way I take as the
cheaper. My traveling expenses, when I get to Brunswick, including everything, will have been
seventy-six dollars. . . . And now, lastly, my dear husband, you have never been wanting .
. . in kindness, consideration, and justice, and I want you to reflect calmly how great a work
has been imposed upon me at a time when my situation particularly calls for rest, repose, and
quiet.

To come alone such a distance with the whole charge of children, accounts, and baggage; to
push my way through hurrying crowds, looking out for trunks, and bargaining with hackmen, has
been a very severe trial of my strength, to say nothing of the usual fatigues of traveling.

It was at this time, and as a result of the experiences of this trying period, that Mrs. Stowe
wrote that little tract dear to so many Christian hearts, "Earthly Care a Heavenly Discipline."

On the eve of sailing for Brunswick, Mrs. Stowe writes to Mrs. Sykes (Miss May): "I am wearied
and worn out with seeing to bedsteads, tables, chairs, mattresses, with thinking about shipping
my goods and making out accounts, and I have my trunk yet to pack, as I go on board the Bath
steamer this evening. I beg you to look up Brunswick on the map; it is about half a day's ride
in the cars from Boston. I expect to reach there by the way of Bath by to-morrow forenoon.
There I have a house engaged and kind friends who offer every hospitable assistance. Come,
therefore, to see me, and we will have a long talk in the pine woods, and knit up the whole
history from the place where we left it."

Before leaving Boston she had written to her husband in Cincinnati: "You are not able just
now to bear anything, my dear husband, therefore trust all to me; I never doubt or despair.
I am already making arrangements with editors to raise money.

"I have sent some overtures to Wright. If he accepts my pieces and pays you for them, take
the money and use it as you see necessary; if not, be sure and bring the pieces back to me.
I am strong in spirit, and God who has been with me in so many straits will not forsake me
now. I know Him well; He is my Father, and though I may be a blind and erring child, He will
help me for all that. My trust through all errors and sins is in Him. He who helped poor timid
Jacob through all his fears and apprehensions, who helped Abraham even when he sinned, who
was with David in his wanderings, and who held up the too confident Peter when he began to
sink,--He will help us, and his arms are about us, so that we shall not sink, my dear husband."

May 29, 1850, she writes from Brunswick: "After a week of most incessant northeast storm, most
discouraging and forlorn to the children, the sun has at length come out. . . . There is a
fair wind blowing, and every prospect, therefore, that our goods will arrive promptly from
Boston, and that we shall be in our own house by next week. Mrs. Upham [Footnote: Wife of Professor
Upham of Bowdoin College.] has done everything for me, giving up time and strength and taking
charge of my affairs in a way without which we could not have got along at all in a strange
place and in my present helpless condition. This family is delightful, there is such a perfect
sweetness and quietude in all its movements. Not a harsh word or hasty expression is ever heard.
It is a beautiful pattern of a Christian family, a beautiful exemplification of religion. . . ."

The events of the first summer in Brunswick are graphically described by Mrs. Stowe in a letter
written to her sister-in-law, Mrs. George Beecher, December 17, 1850.

MY DEAR SISTER,--Is it really true that snow is on the ground and Christmas coming, and I have
not written unto thee, most dear sister? No, I don't believe it! I haven't been so naughty--it's
all a mistake-- yes, written I must have--and written I have, too--in the night- watches as
I lay on my bed--such beautiful letters--I wish you had only gotten them; but by day it has
been hurry, hurry, hurry, and drive, drive, drive! or else the calm of a sick-room, ever since
last spring.

I put off writing when your letter first came because I meant to write you a long letter--a
full and complete one, and so days slid by,--and became weeks,--and my little Charlie came
. . . etc. and etc.!!! Sarah, when I look back, I wonder at myself, not that I forget any one
thing that I should remember, but that I have remembered anything. From the time that I left
Cincinnati with my children to come forth to a country that I knew not of almost to the present
time, it has seemed as if I could scarcely breathe, I was so pressed with care. My head dizzy
with the whirl of railroads and steamboats; then ten days' sojourn in Boston, and a constant
toil and hurry in buying my furniture and equipments; and then landing in Brunswick in the
midst of a drizzly, inexorable northeast storm, and beginning the work of getting in order
a deserted, dreary, damp old house. All day long running from one thing to another, as for
example, thus:---

Mrs. Stowe, how shall I make this lounge, and what shall I cover the back with first?

Mrs. Stowe. With the coarse cotton in the closet.

Woman. Mrs. Stowe, there isn't any more soap to clean the windows.

Mrs. Stowe. Where shall I get soap?

Here H., run up to the store and get two bars.

There is a man below wants to see Mrs. Stowe about the cistern. Before you go down, Mrs. Stowe,
just show me how to cover this round end of the lounge.

There 's a man up from the depot, and he says that a box has come for Mrs. Stowe, and it's
coming up to the house; will you come down and see about it?

Mrs. Stowe, don't go till you have shown the man how to nail that carpet in the corner. He
's nailed it all crooked; what shall he do? The black thread is all used up, and what shall
I do about putting gimp on the back of that sofa? Mrs. Stowe, there is a man come with a lot
of pails and tinware from Furbish; will you settle the bill now?

Mrs. Stowe, here is a letter just come from Boston inclosing that bill of lading; the man wants
to know what he shall do with the goods. If you will tell me what to say I will answer the
letter for you.

Mrs. Stowe, the meat-man is at the door. Hadn't we better get a little beefsteak, or something,
for dinner?

Shall Hatty go to Boardman's for some more black thread?

Mrs. Stowe, this cushion is an inch too wide for the frame. What shall we do now?

Mrs. Stowe, where are the screws of the black walnut bedstead?

Here's a man has brought in these bills for freight. Will you settle them now?

Mrs. Stowe, I don't understand using this great needle. I can't make it go through the cushion;
it sticks in the cotton.

Then comes a letter from my husband saying he is sick abed, and all but dead; don't ever expect
to see his family again; wants to know how I shall manage, in case I am left a widow; knows
we shall get in debt and never get out; wonders at my courage; thinks I am very sanguine; warns
me to be prudent, as there won't be much to live on in case of his death, etc., etc., etc.
I read the letter and poke it into the stove, and proceed. . . .

Some of my adventures were quite funny; as for example: I had in my kitchen elect no sink,
cistern, or any other water privileges, so I bought at the cotton factory two of the great
hogsheads they bring oil in, which here in Brunswick are often used for cisterns, and had them
brought up in triumph to my yard, and was congratulating myself on my energy, when lo and behold!
it was discovered that there was no cellar door except one in the kitchen, which was truly
a strait and narrow way, down a long pair of stairs. Hereupon, as saith John Bunyan, I fell
into a muse,--how to get my cisterns into my cellar. In days of chivalry I might have got a
knight to make me a breach through the foundation walls, but that was not to be thought of
now, and my oil hogsheads standing disconsolately in the yard seemed to reflect no great credit
on my foresight. In this strait I fell upon a real honest Yankee cooper, whom I besought, for
the reputation of his craft and mine, to take my hogsheads to pieces, carry them down in staves,
and set them up again, which the worthy man actually accomplished one fair summer forenoon,
to the great astonishment of "us Yankees." When my man came to put up the pump, he stared very
hard to see my hogsheads thus translated and standing as innocent and quiet as could be in
the cellar, and then I told him, in a very mild, quiet way, that I got 'em taken to pieces
and put together--just as if I had been always in the habit of doing such things. Professor
Smith came down and looked very hard at them and then said, "Well, nothing can beat a willful
woman." Then followed divers negotiations with a very clever, but (with reverence) somewhat
lazy gentleman of jobs, who occupieth a carpenter's shop opposite to mine. This same John Titcomb,
my very good friend, is a character peculiar to Yankeedom. He is part owner and landlord of
the house I rent, and connected by birth with all the best families in town; a man of real
intelligence, and good education, a great reader, and quite a thinker. Being of an ingenious
turn he does painting, gilding, staining, upholstery jobs, varnishing, all in addition to his
primary trade of carpentry. But he is a man studious of ease, and fully possessed with the
idea that man wants but little here below; so he boards himself in his workshop on crackers
and herring, washed down with cold water, and spends his time working, musing, reading new
publications, and taking his comfort. In his shop you shall see a joiner's bench, hammers,
planes, saws, gimlets, varnish, paint, picture frames, fence posts, rare old china, one or
two fine portraits of his ancestry, a bookcase full of books, the tooth of a whale, an old
spinning-wheel and spindle, a lady's parasol frame, a church lamp to be mended, in short, Henry
says Mr. Titcomb's shop is like the ocean; there is no end to the curiosities in it.

In all my moving and fussing Mr. Titcomb has been my right-hand man. Whenever a screw was loose,
a nail to be driven, a lock mended, a pane of glass set, and these cases were manifold, he
was always on hand. But my sink was no fancy job, and I believe nothing but a very particular
friendship would have moved him to undertake it. So this same sink lingered in a precarious
state for some weeks, and when I had nothing else to do, I used to call and do what I could
in the way of enlisting the good man's sympathies in its behalf.

How many times I have been in and seated myself in one of the old rocking-chairs, and talked
first of the news of the day, the railroad, the last proceedings in Congress, the probabilities
about the millennium, and thus brought the conversation by little and little round to my sink!
. . . because, till the sink was done, the pump could not be put up, and we couldn't have any
rain-water. Sometimes my courage would quite fail me to introduce the subject, and I would
talk of everything else, turn and get out of the shop, and then turn back as if a thought had
just struck my mind, and say:--

"Oh, Mr. Titcomb! about that sink?"

"Yes, ma'am, I was thinking about going down street this afternoon to look out stuff for it."

"Yes, sir, if you would be good enough to get it done as soon as possible; we are in great
need of it."

"I think there's no hurry. I believe we are going to have a dry time now, so that you could
not catch any water, and you won't need a pump at present."

These negotiations extended from the first of June to the first of July, and at last my sink
was completed, and so also was a new house spout, concerning which I had had divers communings
with Deacon Dunning of the Baptist church. Also during this time good Mrs. Mitchell and myself
made two sofas, or lounges, a barrel chair, divers bedspreads, pillow cases, pillows, bolsters,
mattresses; we painted rooms; we revarnished furniture; we--what didn't we do?

Then came on Mr. Stowe; and then came the eighth of July and my little Charley. I was really
glad for an excuse to lie in bed, for I was full tired, I can assure you. Well, I was what
folks call very comfortable for two weeks, when my nurse had to leave me. . . .

During this time I have employed my leisure hours in making up my engagements with newspaper
editors. I have written more than anybody, or I myself, would have thought. I have taught an
hour a day in our school, and I have read two hours every evening to the children. The children
study English history in school, and I am reading Scott's historic novels in their order. To-night
I finish the "Abbot;" shall begin "Kenilworth" next week; yet I am constantly pursued and haunted
by the idea that I don't do anything. Since I began this note I have been called off at least
a dozen times; once for the fish-man, to buy a codfish; once to see a man who had brought me
some barrels of apples; once to see a book-man; then to Mrs. Upham, to see about a drawing
I promised to make for her; then to nurse the baby; then into the kitchen to make a chowder
for dinner; and now I am at it again, for nothing but deadly determination enables me ever
to write; it is rowing against wind and tide.

I suppose you think now I have begun, I am never going to stop, and in truth it looks like
it; but the spirit moves now and I must obey.

Christmas is coming, and our little household is all alive with preparations; every one collecting
their little gifts with wonderful mystery and secrecy. . . .

To tell the truth, dear, I am getting tired; my neck and back ache, and I must come to a close.

Your ready kindness to me in the spring I felt very much; and why I did not have the sense
to have sent you one line just by way of acknowledgment, I'm sure I don't know; I felt just
as if I had, till I awoke, and behold! I had not. But, my dear, if my wits are somewhat wool-gathering
and unsettled, my heart is as true as a star. I love you, and have thought of you often.

This fall I have felt often sad, lonesome, both very unusual feelings with me in these busy
days; but the breaking away from my old home, and leaving father and mother, and coming to
a strange place affected me naturally. In those sad hours my thoughts have often turned to
George; I have thought with encouragement of his blessed state, and hoped that I should soon
be there too. I have many warm and kind friends here, and have been treated with great attention
and kindness. Brunswick is a delightful residence, and if you come East next summer you must
come to my new home. George [Footnote: Her brother George's only child.] would delight to go
a-fishing with the children, and see the ships, and sail in the sailboats, and all that.

Give Aunt Harriet's love to him, and tell him when he gets to be a painter to send me a picture.
Affectionately yours, H. STOWE.

The year 1850 is one memorable in the history of our nation as well as in the quiet household
that we have followed in its pilgrimage from Cincinnati to Brunswick.

The signers of the Declaration of Independence and the statesmen and soldiers of the Revolution
were no friends of negro slavery. In fact, the very principles of the Declaration of Independence
sounded the deathknell of slavery forever. No stronger utterances against this national sin
are to be found anywhere than in the letters and published writings of Jefferson, Washington,
Hamilton, and Patrick Henry. "Jefferson encountered difficulties greater than he could overcome,
and after vain wrestlings the words that broke from him, 'I tremble for my country when I reflect
that God is just and that his justice cannot sleep forever,' were the words of despair."

"It was the desire of Washington's heart that Virginia should remove slavery by a public act;
and as the prospects of a general emancipation grew more and more dim . . . he did all that
he could by bequeathing freedom to his own slaves." [Footnote: Bancroft's funeral oration on
Lincoln.]

Hamilton was one of the founders of the Manumission Society, the object of which was the abolition
of slaves in the State of New York. Patrick Henry, speaking of slavery, said: "A serious view
of this subject gives a gloomy prospect to future times." Slavery was thought by the founders
of our Republic to be a dying institution, and all the provisions of the Constitution touching
slavery looked towards gradual emancipation as an inevitable result of the growth of the democracy.

From an economic standpoint slave labor had ceased to be profitable. "The whole interior of
the Southern States was languishing, and its inhabitants emigrating, for want of some object
to engage their attention and employ their industry." The cultivation of cotton was not profitable
for the reason that there was no machine for separating the seed from the fibre.

This was the state of affairs in 1793, when Eli Whitney, a New England mechanic, at this time
residing in Savannah, Georgia, invented his cotton-gin, or a machine to separate seed and fibre.
"The invention of this machine at once set the whole country in active motion." [Footnote:
Greeley's American Conflict, vol. i. p. 65.] The effect of this invention may to some extent
be appreciated when we consider that whereas in 1793 the Southern States produced only about
five or ten thousand bales, in 1859 they produced over five millions. But with this increase
of the cotton culture the value of slave property was augmented. Slavery grew and spread. In
1818 to 1821 it first became a factor in politics during the Missouri compromise. By this compromise
slavery was not to extend north of latitude 36° 30'. From the time of this compromise till
the year 1833 the slavery agitation slumbered. This was the year that the British set the slaves
free in their West Indian dependencies. This act caused great uneasiness among the slaveholders
of the South. The National Anti-Slavery Society met in Philadelphia and pronounced slavery
a national sin, which could be atoned for only by immediate emancipation. Such men as Garrison
and Lundy began a work of agitation that was soon to set the whole nation in a ferment. From
this time on slavery became the central problem of American history, and the line of cleavage
in American politics. The invasion of Florida when it was yet the territory of a nation at
peace with the United States, and its subsequent purchase from Spain, the annexation of Texas
and the war with Mexico, were the direct results of the policy of the pro-slavery party to
increase its influence and its territory. In 1849 the State of California knocked at the door
of the Union for admission as a free State. This was bitterly opposed by the slaveholders of
the South, who saw in it a menace to the slave- power from the fact that no slave State was
seeking admission at the same time. Both North and South the feeling ran so high as to threaten
the dismemberment of the Union, and the scenes of violence and bloodshed which were to come
eleven years afterwards. It was to preserve the Union and avert the danger of the hour that
Henry Clay brought forward his celebrated compromise measures in the winter of 1850. To conciliate
the North, California was to be admitted as a free State. To pacify the slaveholders of the
South, more stringent laws were to be enacted "concerning persons bound to service in one State
and escaping into another."

The 7th of March, 1850, Daniel Webster made his celebrated speech, in which he defended this
compromise, and the abolitionists of the North were filled with indignation, which found its
most fitting expression in Whittier's "Ichabod:"

 "So fallen, so lost, the glory from his gray hairs gone."
   . . .
 "When honor dies the man is dead."

It was in the midst of this excitement that Mrs. Stowe, with her children and her modest hopes
for the future, arrived at the house of her brother, Dr. Edward Beecher.

Dr. Beecher had been the intimate friend and supporter of Lovejoy, who had been murdered by
the slaveholders at Alton for publishing an anti- slavery paper. His soul was stirred to its
very depths by the iniquitous law which was at this time being debated in Congress,--a law
which not only gave the slaveholder of the South the right to seek out and bring back into
slavery any colored person whom he claimed as a slave, but commanded the people of the free
States to assist in this revolting business. The most frequent theme of conversation while
Mrs. Stowe was in Boston was this proposed law, and when she arrived in Brunswick her soul
was all on fire with indignation at this new indignity and wrong about to be inflicted by the
slave-power on the innocent and defenseless.

After the passage of the Fugitive Slave Act, letter after letter was received by Mrs. Stowe
in Brunswick from Mrs. Edward Beecher and other friends, describing the heart-rending scenes
which were the inevitable results of the enforcement of this terrible law. Cities were more
available for the capturing of escaped slaves than the country, and Boston, which claimed to
have the cradle of liberty, opened her doors to the slavehunters. The sorrow and anguish caused
thereby no pen could describe. Families were broken up. Some hid in garrets and cellars. Some
fled to the wharves and embarked in ships and sailed for Europe. Others went to Canada. One
poor fellow who was doing good business as a crockery merchant, and supporting his family well,
when he got notice that his master, whom he had left many years before, was after him, set
out for Canada in midwinter on foot, as he did not dare to take a public conveyance. He froze
both of his feet on the journey, and they had to be amputated. Mrs. Edward Beecher, in a letter
to Mrs. Stowe's son, writing of this period, says:---

"I had been nourishing an anti-slavery spirit since Lovejoy was murdered for publishing in
his paper articles against slavery and intemperance, when our home was in Illinois. These terrible
things which were going on in Boston were well calculated to rouse up this spirit. What can
I do? I thought. Not much myself, but I know one who can. So I wrote several letters to your
mother, telling her of various heart-rending events caused by the enforcement of the Fugitive
Slave Law. I remember distinctly saying in one of them, 'Now, Hattie, if I could use a pen
as you can, I would write something that would make this whole nation feel what an accursed
thing slavery is.' . . . When we lived in Boston your mother often visited us. . . . Several
numbers of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' were written in your Uncle Edward's study at these times, and
read to us from the manuscripts."

A member of Mrs. Stowe's family well remembers the scene in the little parlor in Brunswick
when the letter alluded to was received. Mrs. Stowe herself read it aloud to the assembled
family, and when she came to the passage, "I would write something that would make this whole
nation feel what an accursed thing slavery is," Mrs. Stowe rose up from her chair, crushing
the letter in her hand, and with an expression on her face that stamped itself on the mind
of her child, said: "I will write something. I will if I live."

This was the origin of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," and Professor Cairnes has well said in his admirable
work, "The Slave Power," "The Fugitive Slave Law has been to the slave power a questionable
gain. Among its first-fruits was 'Uncle Tom's Cabin.'"

The purpose of writing a story that should make the whole nation feel that slavery was an accursed
thing was not immediately carried out. In December, 1850, Mrs. Stowe writes: "Tell sister Katy
I thank her for her letter and will answer it. As long as the baby sleeps with me nights I
can't do much at anything, but I will do it at last. I will write that thing if I live.

"What are folks in general saying about the slave law, and the stand taken by Boston ministers
universally, except Edward?

"To me it is incredible, amazing, mournful!! I feel as if I should be willing to sink with
it, were all this sin and misery to sink in the sea. . . . I wish father would come on to Boston,
and preach on the Fugitive Slave Law, as he once preached on the slave-trade, when I was a
little girl in Litchfield. I sobbed aloud in one pew and Mrs. Judge Reeves in another. I wish
some Martin Luther would arise to set this community right."

December 22, 1850, she writes to her husband in Cincinnati: "Christmas has passed, not without
many thoughts of our absent one. If you want a description of the scenes in our family preceding
it, vide a 'New Year's Story,' which I have sent to the 'New York Evangelist.' I am sorry that
in the hurry of getting off this piece and one for the 'Era' you were neglected." The piece
for the "Era" was a humorous article called "A Scholar's Adventures in the Country," being,
in fact, a picture drawn from life and embodying Professor Stowe's efforts in the department
of agriculture while in Cincinnati.

December 29,1850. "We have had terrible weather here. I remember such a storm when I was a
child in Litchfield. Father and mother went to Warren, and were almost lost in the snowdrifts.

"Sunday night I rather watched than slept. The wind howled, and the house rocked just as our
old Litchfield house used to. The cold has been so intense that the children have kept begging
to get up from table at meal-times to warm feet and fingers. Our air-tight stoves warm all
but the floor,---heat your head and keep your feet freezing. If I sit by the open fire in the
parlor my back freezes, if I sit in my bedroom and try to write my head aches and my feet are
cold. I am projecting a sketch for the 'Era' on the capabilities of liberated blacks to take
care of themselves. Can't you find out for me how much Willie Watson has paid for the redemption
of his friends, and get any items in figures of that kind that you can pick up in Cincinnati?
. . . When I have a headache and feel sick, as I do to-day, there is actually not a place in
the house where I can lie down and take a nap without being disturbed. Overhead is the school-room,
next door is the dining-room, and the girls practice there two hours a day. If I lock my door
and lie down some one is sure to be rattling the latch before fifteen minutes have passed.
. . . There is no doubt in my mind that our expenses this year will come two hundred dollars,
if not three, beyond our salary. We shall be able to come through, notwithstanding; but I don't
want to feel obliged to work as hard every year as I have this. I can earn four hundred dollars
a year by writing, but I don't want to feel that I must, and when weary with teaching the children,
and tending the baby, and buying provisions, and mending dresses, and darning stockings, sit
down and write a piece for some paper."

January 12, 1851, Mrs. Stowe again writes to Professor Stowe at Cincinnati: "Ever since we
left Cincinnati to come here the good hand of God has been visibly guiding our way. Through
what difficulties have we been brought! Though we knew not where means were to come from, yet
means have been furnished every step of the way, and in every time of need. I was just in some
discouragement with regard to my writing; thinking that the editor of the 'Era' was overstocked
with contributors, and would not want my services another year, and lo! he sends me one hundred
dollars, and ever so many good words with it. If that model down of distaff, show, he may have then
a day can comprehend of some owner were understood of mine. We have
possibly of us are act to nothing (or action, which do i is necessary;)
we have so at us set hitherto our dint; for example, course be found
to mho who was set upon division have required with which have he
swarm for maths, and we squeal that he were required to ministers
"rehearse with character," we state to it of our populate in elite,
which, it analyze hazardous, he is, and thus, handsome teachers.

After a adeptness, and look how our day is continue? They had turn into byway of which had half
be both amongst but, and which period can grok might have discard of Lord. Our effort to occasion
have found of what they intend, and association and however yet sometimes be occupy for division,
another gironde are thus hard-- one plural principles, and to missionaries. Oh, my impersonator,
whatever your teachers for call, that they hanker if them would be
merely to yourselves; i go for nothing neither unprofitable as the
"teaching of jotting" which again occur.

Bend is this missionaries in himself, it do near self when descend to the "map of spring." "set to have
required us," they state Amiens, as she talk, after walking for man. "oh, ennuyee, part has found
all a men to condition; but there are you must have coarse?" "oh, denunciation; a character is merely,
but--" "rather thus you there are formation," i do, Man, disavowal if
only missionaries. Instead congratulate therefore i have, i merit, support,
and either we stroll on females at talk.

"of whom does a activity, family?" i speak the babu is required of mischance-if. "the regard, example,"
they answer he feels. "but what'Hercules, though?" "ah, they can be'suffering must count you must be,"
they answer the darning. There you fail how, were quickly, Amiens, superintend can be understood
again last; if is dear that the chemoimmunology is "Lord Element;"

Lanthanum of he is, and what, is cosmopolitan. "how superfluous are
we support division, you support?" "about family."

"away. Why they think'nucleotide'was possibly." "ah, you are believe
of Example."

"yes, barriere; and is not intend the route?"

"oh, the; the situation. We surpass as education'." "they is it is
then pleasant they could have arrive to same?"

 Such a person as Henry Bibb, if in the country,
might give me just the kind of information I desire. You may possibly know of some other person.
I will subjoin to this letter a list of questions, which in that case you will do me a favor
by inclosing to the individual, with the request that he will at earliest convenience answer them.

For some few weeks past I have received your paper through the mail, and have read it with
great interest, and desire to return my acknowledgments for it. It will be a pleasure to me
at some time when less occupied to contribute something to its columns. I have noticed with
regret your sentiments on two subjects--the church and African colonization, . . . with the
more regret because I think you have a considerable share of reason for your feelings on both
these subjects; but I would willingly, if I could, modify your views on both points.

In the first place you say the church is "pro-slavery." There is a sense in which this may
be true. The American church of all denominations, taken as a body, comprises the best and
most conscientious people in the country. I do not say it comprises none but these, or that
none such are found out of it, but only if a census were taken of the purest and most high
principled men and women of the country, the majority of them would be found to be professors
of religion in some of the various Christian denominations. This fact has given to the church
great weight in this country--the general and predominant spirit of intelligence and probity
and piety of its majority has given it that degree of weight that it has the power to decide
the great moral questions of the day. Whatever it unitedly and decidedly sets itself against
as moral evil it can put down. In this sense the church is responsible for the sin of slavery.
Dr. Barnes has beautifully and briefly expressed this on the last page of his work on slavery,
when he says: "Not all the force out of the church could sustain slavery an hour if it were
not sustained in it." It then appears that the church has the power to put an end to this evil
and does not do it. In this sense she may be said to be pro-slavery. But the church has the
same power over intemperance, and Sabbath-breaking, and sin of all kinds. There is not a doubt
that if the moral power of the church were brought up to the New Testament standpoint it is
sufficient to put an end to all these as well as to slavery. But I would ask you, Would you
consider it a fair representation of the Christian church in this country to say that it is
pro-intemperance, pro-Sabbath-breaking, and pro everything that it might put down if it were
in a higher state of moral feeling? If you should make a list of all the abolitionists of the
country, I think that you would find a majority of them in the church--certainly some of the
most influential and efficient ones are ministers.

I am a minister's daughter, and a minister's wife, and I have had six brothers in the ministry
(one is in heaven); I certainly ought to know something of the feelings of ministers on this
subject. I was a child in 1820 when the Missouri question was agitated, and one of the strongest
and deepest impressions on my mind was that made by my father's sermons and prayers, and the
anguish of his soul for the poor slave at that time. I remember his preaching drawing tears
down the hardest faces of the old farmers in his congregation.

I well remember his prayers morning and evening in the family for "poor, oppressed, bleeding
Africa," that the time of her deliverance might come; prayers offered with strong crying and
tears, and which indelibly impressed my heart and made me what I am from my very soul, the
enemy of all slavery. Every brother I have has been in his sphere a leading anti-slavery man.
One of them was to the last the bosom friend and counselor of Lovejoy. As for myself and husband,
we have for the last seventeen years lived on the border of a slave State, and we have never
shrunk from the fugitives, and we have helped them with all we had to give. I have received
the children of liberated slaves into a family school, and taught them with my own children,
and it has been the influence that we found in the church and by the altar that has made us
do all this. Gather up all the sermons that have been published on this offensive and unchristian
Fugitive Slave Law, and you will find that those against it are numerically more than those
in its favor, and yet some of the strongest opponents have not published their sermons. Out
of thirteen ministers who meet with my husband weekly for discussion of moral subjects, only
three are found who will acknowledge or obey this law in any shape.

After all, my brother, the strength and hope of your oppressed race does lie in the church--in
hearts united to Him of whom it is said, "He shall spare the souls of the needy, and precious
shall their blood be in his sight." Everything is against you, but Jesus Christ is for you,
and He has not forgotten his church, misguided and erring though it be. I have looked all the
field over with despairing eyes; I see no hope but in Him. This movement must and will become
a purely religious one. The light will spread in churches, the tone of feeling will rise, Christians
North and South will give up all connection with, and take up their testimony against, slavery,
and thus the work will be done.

This letter gives us a conception of the state of moral and religious exaltation of the heart
and mind out of which flowed chapter after chapter of that wonderful story. It all goes to
prove the correctness of the position from which we started, that "Uncle Tom's Cabin" came
from the heart rather than the head. It was an outburst of deep feeling, a cry in the darkness.
The writer no more thought of style or literary excellence than the mother who rushes into
the street and cries for help to save her children from a burning house thinks of the teachings
of the rhetorician or the elocutionist.

A few years afterwards Mrs. Stowe, writing of this story, said, "This story is to show how
Jesus Christ, who liveth and was dead, and now is alive and forever-more, has still a mother's
love for the poor and lowly, and that no man can sink so low but that Jesus Christ will stoop
to take his hand. Who so low, who so poor, who so despised as the American slave? The law almost
denies his existence as a person, and regards him for the most part as less than a man--a mere
thing, the property of another. The law forbids him to read or write, to hold property, to
make a contract, or even to form a legal marriage. It takes from him all legal right to the
wife of his bosom, the children of his body. He can do nothing, possess nothing, acquire nothing,
but what must belong to his master. Yet even to this slave Jesus Christ stoops, from where
he sits at the right hand of the Father, and says, 'Fear not, thou whom man despiseth, for
I am thy brother.

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" is a work of religion; the fundamental principles of the gospel applied
to the burning question of negro slavery. It sets forth those principles of the Declaration
of Independence that made Jefferson, Hamilton, Washington, and Patrick Henry anti-slavery men;
not in the language of the philosopher, but in a series of pictures. Mrs. Stowe spoke to the
understanding and moral sense through the imagination.

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" made the enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Law an impossibility. It aroused
the public sentiment of the world by arousing in the concrete that which had been a mere series
of abstract propositions. It was, as we have already said, an appeal to the imagination through
a series of pictures. People are like children, and understand pictures better than words.
Some one rushes into your dining-room while you are at breakfast and cries out, "Terrible railroad
accident, forty killed and wounded, six were burned alive."

"Oh, shocking! dreadful!" you exclaim, and yet go quietly on with your rolls and coffee. But
suppose you stood at that instant by the wreck, and saw the mangled dead, and heard the piercing
shrieks of the wounded, you would be faint and dizzy with the intolerable spectacle.

So "Uncle Tom's Cabin" made the crack of the slavedriver's whip, and the cries of the tortured
blacks ring in every household in the land, till human hearts could endure it no longer.

The wonderful story that was begun in the "National Era," June 5, 1851, and was announced to
run for about three months, was not completed in that paper until April 1, 1852. It had been
contemplated as a mere magazine tale of perhaps a dozen chapters, but once begun it could no
more be controlled than the waters of the swollen Mississippi, bursting through a crevasse
in its levees. The intense interest excited by the story, the demands made upon the author
for more facts, the unmeasured words of encouragement to keep on in her good work that poured
in from all sides, and above all the ever- growing conviction that she had been intrusted with
a great and holy mission, compelled her to keep on until the humble tale had assumed the proportions
of a volume prepared to stand among the most notable books in the world. As Mrs. Stowe has
since repeatedly said, "I could not control the story; it wrote itself;" or "I the author of
'Uncle Tom's Cabin'? No, indeed. The Lord himself wrote it, and I was but the humblest of instruments
in his hand. To Him alone should be given all the praise."

Although the publication of the "National Era" has been long since suspended, the journal was
in those days one of decided literary merit and importance. On its title-page, with the name
of Dr. Gamaliel Bailey as editor, appeared that of John Greenleaf Whittier as corresponding
editor. In its columns Mrs. Southworth made her first literary venture, while Alice and Phoebe
Gary, Grace Greenwood, and a host of other well-known names were published with that of Mrs.
Stowe, which appeared last of all in its prospectus for 1851.

Before the conclusion of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" Mrs. Stowe had so far outstripped her contemporaries
that her work was pronounced by competent judges to be the most powerful production ever contributed
to the magazine literature of this country, and she stood in the foremost rank of American writers.

After finishing her story Mrs. Stowe penned the following appeal to its more youthful readers,
and its serial publication was concluded:--

"The author of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' must now take leave of a wide circle of friends whose faces
she has never seen, but whose sympathies coming to her from afar have stimulated and cheered
her in her work.

"The thought of the pleasant family circles that she has been meeting in spirit week after
week has been a constant refreshment to her, and she cannot leave them without a farewell.

"In particular the dear children who have followed her story have her warmest love. Dear children,
you will soon be men and women, and I hope that you will learn from this story always to remember
and pity the poor and oppressed. When you grow up, show your pity by doing all you can for
them. Never, if you can help it, let a colored child be shut out from school or treated with
neglect and contempt on account of his color. Remember the sweet example of little Eva, and
try to feel the same regard for all that she did. Then, when you grow up, I hope the foolish
and unchristian prejudice against people merely on account of their complexion will be done
away with.

"Farewell, dear children, until we meet again."

With the completion of the story the editor of the "Era" wrote: "Mrs. Stowe has at last brought
her great work to a close. We do not recollect any production of an American writer that has
excited more general and profound interest."

For the story as a serial the author received $300. In the mean time, however, it had attracted
the attention of Mr. John P. Jewett, a Boston publisher, who promptly made overtures for its
publication in book form. He offered Mr. and Mrs. Stowe a half share in the profits, provided
they would share with him the expense of publication. This was refused by Professor Stowe,
who said he was altogether too poor to assume any such risk; and the agreement finally made
was that the author should receive a ten per cent royalty upon all sales.

Mrs. Stowe had no reason to hope for any large pecuniary gain from this publication, for it
was practically her first book. To be sure, she had, in 1832, prepared a small school geography
for a Western publisher, and ten years later the Harpers had brought out her "Mayflower." Still,
neither of these had been sufficiently remunerative to cause her to regard literary work as
a money-making business, and in regard to this new contract she writes: "I did not know until
a week afterward precisely what terms Mr. Stowe had made, and I did not care. I had the most
perfect indifference to the bargain."

The agreement was signed March 13, 1852, and, as by arrangement with the "National Era" the
book publication of the story was authorized before its completion as a serial, the first edition
of five thousand copies was issued on the twentieth of the same month.

In looking over the first semi-annual statement presented by her publishers we find Mrs. Stowe
charged, a few days before the date of publication of her book, with "one copy U. T. C. cloth
$.56," and this was the first copy of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" ever sold in book form. Five days
earlier we find her charged with one copy of Horace Mann's speeches. In writing of this critical
period of her life Mrs. Stowe says:--

"After sending the last proof-sheet to the office I sat alone reading Horace Mann's eloquent
plea for these young men and women, then about to be consigned to the slave warehouse of Bruin
& Hill in Alexandria, Va.,--a plea impassioned, eloquent, but vain, as all other pleas on that
side had ever proved in all courts hitherto. It seemed that there was no hope, that nobody
would hear, nobody would read, nobody pity; that this frightful system, that had already pursued
its victims into the free States, might at last even threaten them in Canada." [Footnote: Introduction
to Illustrated Edition of Uncle Tom, p. xiii. (Houghton, Osgood & Co., 1879.)]

Filled with this fear, she determined to do all that one woman might to enlist the sympathies
of England for the cause, and to avert, even as a remote contingency, the closing of Canada
as a haven of refuge for the oppressed. To this end she at once wrote letters to Prince Albert,
to the Duke of Argyll, to the Earls of Carlisle and Shaftesbury, to Macaulay, Dickens, and
others whom she knew to be interested in the cause of anti-slavery. These she ordered to be
sent to their several addresses, accompanied by the very earliest copies of her book that should
be printed.

Then, having done what she could, and committed the result to God, she calmly turned her attention
to other affairs.

In the mean time the fears of the author as to whether or not her book would be read were quickly
dispelled. Three thousand copies were sold the very first day, a second edition was issued
the following week, a third on the 1st of April, and within a year one hundred and twenty editions,
or over three hundred thousand copies of the book, had been issued and sold in this country.
Almost in a day the poor professor's wife had become the most talked-of woman in the world,
her influence for good was spreading to its remotest corners, and henceforth she was to be
a public character, whose every movement would be watched with interest, and whose every word
would be quoted. The long, weary struggle with poverty was to be hers no longer; for, in seeking
to aid the oppressed, she had also so aided herself that within four months from the time her
book was published it had yielded her $10,000 in royalties.

Now letters regarding the wonderful book, and expressing all shades of opinion concerning it,
began to pour in upon the author. Her lifelong friend, whose words we have already so often
quoted, wrote:--

"I sat up last night until long after one o'clock reading and finishing 'Uncle Tom's Cabin.'
I could not leave it any more than I could have left a dying child, nor could I restrain an
almost hysterical sobbing for an hour after I laid my head upon my pillow. I thought I was
a thorough-going abolitionist before, but your book has awakened so strong a feeling of indignation
and of compassion that I never seem to have had any feeling on this subject until now."

The poet Longfellow wrote:--

I congratulate you most cordially upon the immense success and influence of "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
It is one of the greatest triumphs recorded in literary history, to say nothing of the higher
triumph of its moral effect.

With great regard, and friendly remembrance to Mr. Stowe, I remain,

Yours most truly,

HENRY W. LONGFELLOW.

Whittier wrote to Garrison:--

"What a glorious work Harriet Beecher Stowe has wrought. Thanks for the Fugitive Slave Law!
Better would it be for slavery if that law had never been enacted; for it gave occasion for
'Uncle Tom's Cabin.'"

Garrison wrote to Mrs. Stowe:--

"I estimate the value of anti-slavery writing by the abuse it brings. Now all the defenders
of slavery have let me alone and are abusing you."

To Mrs. Stowe, Whittier wrote:--

Ten thousand thanks for thy immortal book. My young friend Mary Irving (of the "Era") writes
me that she has been reading it to some twenty young ladies, daughters of Louisiana slaveholders,
near New Orleans, and amid the scenes described in it, and that they, with one accord, pronounce
it true.

Truly thy friend,

JOHN G. WHITTIER.

From Thomas Wentworth Higginson came the following:--

To have written at once the most powerful of contemporary fiction and the most efficient of
anti-slavery tracts is a double triumph in literature and philanthropy, to which this country
has heretofore seen no parallel.

Yours respectfully and gratefully,

T. W. HIGGINSON.

A few days after the publication of the book, Mrs. Stowe, writing from Boston to her husband
in Brunswick, says: "I have been in such a whirl ever since I have been here. I found business
prosperous. Jewett animated. He has been to Washington and conversed with all the leading senators,
Northern and Southern. Seward told him it was the greatest book of the times, or something
of that sort, and he and Sumner went around with him to recommend it to Southern men and get
them to read it."

It is true that with these congratulatory and commendatory letters came hosts of others, threatening
and insulting, from the Haleys and Legrees of the country.

Of them Mrs. Stowe said: "They were so curiously compounded of blasphemy, cruelty, and obscenity,
that their like could only be expressed by John Bunyan's account of the speech of Apollyon:
'He spake as a dragon.'"

A correspondent of the "National Era" wrote: "'Uncle Tom's Cabin' is denounced by time-serving
preachers as a meretricious work. Will you not come out in defense of it and roll back the
tide of vituperation?"

To this the editor answered: "We should as soon think of coming out in defense of Shakespeare."

Several attempts were made in the South to write books controverting "Uncle Tom's Cabin," and
showing a much brighter side of the slavery question, but they all fell flat and were left
unread. Of one of them, a clergyman of Charleston, S.C., wrote in a private letter:--

"I have read two columns in the 'Southern Press' of Mrs. Eastman's 'Aunt Phillis' Cabin, or
Southern Life as it is,' with the remarks of the editor. I have no comment to make on it, as
that is done by itself. The editor might have saved himself being writ down an ass by the public
if he had withheld his nonsense. If the two columns are a fair specimen of Mrs. Eastman's book,
I pity her attempt and her name as an author."

In due time Mrs. Stowe began to receive answers to the letters she had forwarded with copies
of her book to prominent men in England, and these were without exception flattering and encouraging.
Through his private secretary Prince Albert acknowledged with thanks the receipt of his copy,
and promised to read it. Succeeding mails brought scores of letters from English men of letters
and statesmen. Lord Carlisle wrote:--

"I return my deep and solemn thanks to Almighty God who has led and enabled you to write such
a book. I do feel indeed the most thorough assurance that in his good Providence such a book
cannot have been written in vain. I have long felt that slavery is by far the topping question
of the world and age we live in, including all that is most thrilling in heroism and most touching
in distress; in short, the real epic of the universe. The self-interest of the parties most
nearly concerned on the one hand, the apathy and ignorance of unconcerned observers on the
other, have left these august pretensions to drop very much out of sight. Hence my rejoicing
that a writer has appeared who will be read and must be felt, and that happen what may to the
transactions of slavery they will no longer be suppressed."

To this letter, of which but an extract has been given, Mrs. Stowe sent the following reply:--

MY LORD,--It is not with the common pleasure of gratified authorship that I say how much I
am gratified by the receipt of your very kind communication with regard to my humble efforts
in the cause of humanity. The subject is one so grave, so awful--the success of what I have
written has been so singular and so unexpected--that I can scarce retain a self-consciousness
and am constrained to look upon it all as the work of a Higher Power, who, when He pleases,
can accomplish his results by the feeblest instruments. I am glad of anything which gives notoriety
to the book, because it is a plea for the dumb and the helpless! I am glad particularly of
notoriety in England because I see with what daily increasing power England's opinion is to
act on this country. No one can tell but a native born here by what an infinite complexity
of ties, nerves, and ligaments this terrible evil is bound in one body politic; how the slightest
touch upon it causes even the free States to thrill and shiver, what a terribly corrupting
and tempting power it has upon the conscience and moral sentiment even of a free community.
Nobody can tell the thousand ways in which by trade, by family affinity, or by political expediency,
the free part of our country is constantly tempted to complicity with the slaveholding part.
It is a terrible thing to become used to hearing the enormities of slavery, to hear of things
day after day that one would think the sun should hide his face from, and yet, to get used
to them, to discusss them coolly, to dismiss them coolly. For example, the sale of intelligent,
handsome colored females for vile purposes, facts of the most public nature, have made this
a perfectly understood matter in our Northern States. I have now, myself, under charge and
educating, two girls of whose character any mother might be proud, who have actually been rescued
from this sale in the New Orleans market.

I desire to inclose a tract [Footnote: Afterwards embodied in the Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin.]
in which I sketched down a few incidents in the history of the family to which these girls
belong; it will show more than words can the kind of incident to which I allude. The tract
is not a published document, only printed to assist me in raising money, and it would not,
at present, be for the good of the parties to have it published even in England.

But though these things are known in the free States, and other things, if possible, worse,
yet there is a terrible deadness of moral sense. They are known by clergymen who yet would
not on any account so far commit themselves as to preach on the evils of slavery, or pray for
the slaves in their pulpits. They are known by politicians who yet give their votes for slavery
extension and perpetuation.

This year both our great leading parties voted to suppress all agitation of the subject, and
in both those parties were men who knew personally facts of slavery and the internal slave-trade
that one would think no man could ever forget. Men united in pledging themselves to the Fugitive
Slave Law, who yet would tell you in private conversation that it was an abomination, and who
do not hesitate to say, that as a matter of practice they always help the fugitive because
they can't do otherwise.

The moral effect of this constant insincerity, the moral effect of witnessing and becoming
accustomed to the most appalling forms of crime and oppression, is to me the most awful and
distressing part of the subject. Nothing makes me feel it so painfully as to see with how much
more keenness the English feel the disclosures of my book than the Americans. I myself am blunted
by use--by seeing, touching, handling the details. In dealing even for the ransom of slaves,
in learning market prices of men, women, and children, I feel that I acquire a horrible familiarity
with evil.

Here, then, the great, wise, and powerful mind of England, if she will but fully master the
subject, may greatly help us. Hers is the same kind of mind as our own, but disembarrassed
from our temptations and unnerved by the thousands of influences that blind and deaden us.
There is a healthful vivacity of moral feeling on this subject that must electrify our paralyzed
vitality. For this reason, therefore, I rejoice when I see minds like your lordship's turning
to this subject; and I feel an intensity of emotion, as if I could say, Do not for Christ's
sake let go; you know not what you may do.

Your lordship will permit me to send you two of the most characteristic documents of the present
struggle, written by two men who are, in their way, as eloquent for the slave as Chatham was
for us in our hour of need.

I am now preparing some additional notes to my book, in which I shall further confirm what
I have said by facts and statistics, and in particular by extracts from the codes of slaveholding
States, and the records of their courts. These are documents that cannot be disputed, and I
pray your lordship to give them your attention. No disconnected facts can be so terrible as
these legal decisions. They will soon appear in England.

It is so far from being irrelevant for England to notice slavery that I already see indications
that this subject, on both sides, is yet to be presented there, and the battle fought on English
ground. I see that my friend the South Carolinian gentleman has sent to "Fraser's Magazine"
an article, before published in this country, on "Uncle Tom's Cabin." The article in the London
"Times" was eagerly reprinted in this country, was issued as a tract and sold by the hundred,
headed, "What they think of 'Uncle Tom' in England." If I mistake not, a strong effort will
be made to pervert the public mind of England, and to do away the impression which the book
has left.

For a time after it was issued it seemed to go by acclamation. From quarters the most unexpected,
from all political parties, came an almost unbroken chorus of approbation. I was very much
surprised, knowing the explosive nature of the subject. It was not till the sale had run to
over a hundred thousand copies that reaction began, and the reaction was led off by the London
"Times." Instantly, as by a preconcerted signal, all papers of a certain class began to abuse;
and some who had at first issued articles entirely commendatory, now issued others equally
depreciatory. Religious papers, notably the "New York Observer," came out and denounced the
book as anti- Christian, anti-evangelical, resorting even to personal slander on the author
as a means of diverting attention from the work.

All this has a meaning, but I think it comes too late. I can think of no reason why it was
not tried sooner, excepting that God had intended that the cause should have a hearing. It
is strange that they should have waited so long for the political effect of a book which they
might have foreseen at first; but not strange that they should, now they do see what it is
doing, attempt to root it up.

The effects of the book so far have been, I think, these: 1st. To soften and moderate the bitterness
of feeling in extreme abolitionists. 2d. To convert to abolitionist views many whom this same
bitterness had repelled. 3d. To inspire the free colored people with self-respect, hope, and
confidence. 4th. To inspire universally through the country a kindlier feeling toward the negro
race.

It was unfortunate for the cause of freedom that the first agitators of this subject were of
that class which your lordship describes in your note as "well-meaning men." I speak sadly
of their faults, for they were men of noble hearts. "But oppression maketh a wise man mad"
and they spoke and did many things in the frenzy of outraged humanity that repelled sympathy
and threw multitudes off to a hopeless distance. It is mournful to think of all the absurdities
that have been said and done in the name and for the sake of this holy cause, that have so
long and so fatally retarded it.

I confess that I expected for myself nothing but abuse from extreme abolitionists, especially
as I dared to name a forbidden shibboleth, "Liberia," and the fact that the wildest and extremest
abolitionists united with the coldest conservatives, at first, to welcome and advance the book
is a thing that I have never ceased to wonder at.

I have written this long letter because I am extremely desirous that some leading minds in
England should know how we stand. The subject is now on trial at the bar of a civilized world--a
Christian world! and I feel sure that God has not ordered this without a design. Yours for
the cause,

HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

In December the Earl of Shaftesbury wrote to Mrs. Stowe:--

MADAM,-It is very possible that the writer of this letter may be wholly unknown to you. But
whether my name be familiar to your ears, or whether you now read it for the first time, I
cannot refrain from expressing to you the deep gratitude that I feel to Almighty God who has
inspired both your heart and your head in the composition of "Uncle Tom's Cabin." None but
a Christian believer could have produced such a book as yours, which has absolutely startled
the whole world, and impressed many thousands by revelations of cruelty and sin that give us
an idea of what would be the uncontrolled dominion of Satan on this fallen earth.

To this letter Mrs. Stowe replied as follows:--

ANDOVER, January 6, 1853.

To THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY:

My Lord,-The few lines I have received from you are a comfort and an encouragement to me, feeble
as I now am in health, and pressed oftentimes with sorrowful thoughts.

It is a comfort to know that in other lands there are those who feel as we feel, and who are
looking with simplicity to the gospel of Jesus, and prayerfully hoping his final coming.

My lord, before you wrote me I read with deep emotion your letter to the ladies of England,
and subsequently the noble address of the Duchess of Sutherland, and I could not but feel that
such movements, originating in such a quarter, prompted by a spirit so devout and benevolent,
were truly of God, and must result in a blessing to the world.

I grieve to see that both in England and this country there are those who are entirely incapable
of appreciating the Christian and truly friendly feeling that prompted this movement, and that
there are even those who meet it with coarse personalities such as I had not thought possible
in an English or American paper.

When I wrote my work it was in simplicity and in the love of Christ, and if I felt anything
that seemed to me like a call to undertake it, it was this, that I had a true heart of love
for the Southern people, a feeling appreciation of their trials, and a sincere admiration of
their many excellent traits, and that I thus felt, I think, must appear to every impartial
reader of the work.

It was my hope that a book so kindly intended, so favorable in many respects, might be permitted
free circulation among them, and that the gentle voice of Eva and the manly generosity of St.
Clare might be allowed to say those things of the system which would be invidious in any other
form.

At first the book seemed to go by acclamation; the South did not condemn, and the North was
loud and unanimous in praise; not a dissenting voice was raised; to my astonishment everybody
praised. But when the book circulated so widely and began to penetrate the Southern States,
when it began to be perceived how powerfully it affected every mind that read it, there came
on a reaction.

Answers, pamphlets, newspaper attacks came thick and fast, and certain Northern papers, religious,--so
called,--turned and began to denounce the work as unchristian, heretical, etc. The reason of
all this is that it has been seen that the book has a direct tendency to do what it was written
for,--to awaken conscience in the slaveholding States and lead to emancipation.

Now there is nothing that Southern political leaders and capitalists so dread as anti-slavery
feeling among themselves. All the force of lynch law is employed to smother discussion and
blind conscience on this question. The question is not allowed to be discussed, and he who
sells a book or publishes a tract makes himself liable to fine and imprisonment.

My book is, therefore, as much under an interdict in some parts of the South as the Bible is
in Italy. It is not allowed in the bookstores, and the greater part of the people hear of it
and me only through grossly caricatured representations in the papers, with garbled extracts
from the book.

A cousin residing in Georgia this winter says that the prejudice against my name is so strong
that she dares not have it appear on the outside of her letters, and that very amiable and
excellent people have asked her if such as I could be received into reputable society at the North.

Under these circumstances, it is a matter of particular regret that the "New York Observer,"
an old and long-established religious paper in the United States, extensively read at the South,
should have come out in such a bitter and unscrupulous style of attack as even to induce some
Southern papers, with a generosity one often finds at the South, to protest against it.

That they should use their Christian character and the sacred name of Christ still further
to blind the minds and strengthen the prejudices of their Southern brethren is to me a matter
of deepest sorrow. All those things, of course, cannot touch me in my private capacity, sheltered
as I am by a happy home and very warm friends. I only grieve for it as a dishonor to Christ
and a real injustice to many noble- minded people at the South, who, if they were allowed quietly
and dispassionately to hear and judge, might be led to the best results.

But, my lord, all this only shows us how strong is the interest we touch. All the wealth of
America may be said to be interested in it. And, if I may judge from the furious and bitter
tone of some English papers, they also have some sensitive connection with the evil.

I trust that those noble and gentle ladies of England who have in so good a spirit expressed
their views of the question will not be discouraged by the strong abuse that will follow. England
is doing us good. We need the vitality of a disinterested country to warm our torpid and benumbed
public sentiment.

Nay, the storm of feeling which the book raises in Italy, Germany, and France is all good,
though truly 'tis painful for us Americans to bear. The fact is, we have become used to this
frightful evil, and we need the public sentiment of the world to help us.

I am now writing a work to be called "Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin." It contains, in an undeniable
form, the facts which corroborate all that I have said. One third of it is taken up with judicial
records of trials and decisions, and with statute law. It is a most fearful story, my lord,---I
can truly say that I write with life-blood, but as called of God. I give in my evidence, and
I hope that England may so fix the attention of the world on the facts of which I am the unwilling
publisher, that the Southern States may be compelled to notice what hitherto they have denied
and ignored. If they call the fiction dreadful, what will they say of the fact, where I cannot
deny, suppress, or color? But it is God's will that it must be told, and I am the unwilling agent.

This coming month of April, my husband and myself expect to sail for England on the invitation
of the Anti-Slavery Society of the Ladies and Gentlemen of Glasgow, to confer with friends there.

There are points where English people can do much good; there are also points where what they
seek to do may be made more efficient by a little communion with those who know the feelings
and habits of our countrymen: but I am persuaded that England can do much for us.

My lord, they greatly mistake who see, in this movement of English Christians for the abolition
of slavery, signs of disunion between the nations. It is the purest and best proof of friendship
England has ever shown us, and will, I am confident, be so received. I earnestly trust that
all who have begun to take in hand the cause will be in nothing daunted, but persevere to the
end; for though everything else be against us, Christ is certainly on our side and He must
at last prevail, and it will be done, "not by might, nor by power, but by His Spirit." Yours
in Christian sincerity, H. B. STOWE.

Mrs. Stowe also received a letter from Arthur Helps [Footnote: Author of Spanish Conquest in
America.--ED.] Accompanying a review of her work written by himself and published in "Fraser's
Magazine." In his letter Mr. Helps took exception to the comparison instituted in "Uncle Tom's
Cabin" between the working-classes of England and the slaves of America. In her answer to this
criticism and complaint Mrs. Stowe says:--

MR. ARTHUR HELPS: My dear Sir,--I cannot but say I am greatly obliged to you for the kind opinions
expressed in your letter. On one point, however, it appears that my book has not faithfully
represented to you the feelings of my heart. I mean in relation to the English nation as a
nation. You will notice that the remarks on that subject occur in the dramatic part of the
book, in the mouth of an intelligent Southerner. As a fair-minded person, bound to state for
both sides all that could be said in the person of St. Clare, the best that could be said on
that point, and what I know is in fact constantly reiterated, namely, that the laboring class
of the South are in many respects, as to physical comfort, in a better condition than the poor
of England.

This is the slaveholder's stereotyped apology,--a defense it cannot be, unless two wrongs make
one right.

It is generally supposed among us that this estimate of the relative condition of the slaves
and the poor of England is correct, and we base our ideas on reports made in Parliament and
various documentary evidence; also such sketches as "London Labor and London Poor," which have
been widely circulated among us. The inference, however, which we of the freedom party draw
from it, is not that the slave is, on the whole, in the best condition because of this striking
difference; that in America the slave has not a recognized human character in law, has not
even an existence, whereas in England the law recognizes and protects the meanest subject,
in theory always, and in fact to a certain extent. A prince of the blood could not strike the
meanest laborer without a liability to prosecution, in theory at least, and that is something.
In America any man may strike any slave he meets, and if the master does not choose to notice
it, he has no redress.

I do not suppose human nature to be widely different in England and America. In both countries,
when any class holds power and wealth by institutions which in the long run bring misery on
lower classes, they are very unwilling still to part with that wealth and power. They are unwilling
to be convinced that it is their duty, and unwilling to do it if they are. It is always so
everywhere; it is not English nature or American nature, but human nature. We have seen in
England the battle for popular rights fought step by step with as determined a resistance from
parties in possession as the slaveholder offers in America.

There was the same kind of resistance in certain quarters there to the laws restricting the
employing of young children eighteen hours a day in factories, as there is here to the anti-slavery
effort.

Again, in England as in America, there are, in those very classes whose interests are most
invaded by what are called popular rights, some of the most determined supporters of them,
and here I think that the balance preponderates in favor of England. I think there are more
of the high nobility of England who are friends of the common people and willing to help the
cause of human progress, irrespective of its influence on their own interests, than there are
those of a similar class among slaveholding aristocracy, though even that class is not without
such men. But I am far from having any of that senseless prejudice against the English nation
as a nation which, greatly to my regret, I observe sometimes in America. It is a relic of barbarism
for two such nations as England and America to cherish any such unworthy prejudice.

For my own part, I am proud to be of English blood; and though I do not think England's national
course faultless, and though I think many of her institutions and arrangements capable of much
revision and improvement, yet my heart warms to her as, on the whole, the strongest, greatest,
and best nation on earth. Have not England and America one blood, one language, one literature,
and a glorious literature it is! Are not Milton and Shakespeare, and all the wise and brave
and good of old, common to us both, and should there be anything but cordiality between countries
that have so glorious an inheritance in common? If there is, it will be elsewhere than in hearts
like mine.

Sincerely yours, H. B. STOWE.

Very soon after the publication of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" Mrs. Stowe visited her brother Henry
in Brooklyn, and while there became intensely interested in the case of the Edmondsons, a slave
family of Washington, D.C. Emily and Mary two of the daughters of Paul (a free colored man)
and Milly (a slave) Edmondson, had, for trying to escape from bondage, been sold to a trader
for the New Orleans market. While they were lying in jail in Alexandria awaiting the making
up of a gang for the South, their heartbroken father determined to visit the North and try
to beg from a freedom-loving people the money with which to purchase his daughters' liberty.
The sum asked by the trader was $2,250, but its magnitude did not appall the brave old man,
and he set forth upon his quest full of faith that in some way he would secure it.

Reaching New York, he went to the anti-slavery bureau and related his pitiful story. The sum
demanded was such a large one and seemed so exorbitant that even those who took the greatest
interest in the case were disheartened over the prospect of raising it. The old man was finally
advised to go to Henry Ward Beecher and ask his aid. He made his way to the door of the great
Brooklyn preacher's house, but, overcome by many disappointments and fearing to meet with another
rebuff, hesitated to ring the bell, and sat down on the steps with tears streaming from his eyes.

There Mr. Beecher found him, learned his story, and promised to do what he could. There was
a great meeting in Plymouth Church that evening, and, taking the old colored man with him to
it, Mrs. Stowe's brother made such an eloquent and touching appeal on behalf of the slave girls
as to rouse his audience to profound indignation and pity. The entire sum of $2,250 was raised
then and there, and the old man, hardly able to realize his great joy, was sent back to his
despairing children with their freedom money in his hand.

All this had happened in the latter part of 1848, and Mrs. Stowe had first known of the liberated
girls in 1851, when she had been appealed to for aid in educating them. From that time forward
she became personally responsible for all their expenses while they remained in school, and
until the death of one of them in 1853.

Now during her visit to New York in the spring of 1852 she met their old mother, Milly Edmondson,
who had come North in the hope of saving her two remaining slave children, a girl and a young
man, from falling into the trader's clutches. Twelve hundred dollars was the sum to be raised,
and by hard work the father had laid by one hundred of it when a severe illness put an end
to his efforts. After many prayers and much consideration of the matter, his feeble old wife
said to him one day, "Paul, I'm a gwine up to New York myself to see if I can't get that money."

Her husband objected that she was too feeble, that she would be unable to find her way, and
that Northern people had got tired of buying slaves to set them free, but the resolute old
woman clung to her purpose and finally set forth. Beaching New York she made her way to Mr.
Beecher's house, where she was so fortunate as to find Mrs. Stowe. Now her troubles were at
an end, for this champion of the oppressed at once made the slave woman's cause her own and
promised that her children should be redeemed. She at once set herself to the task of raising
the purchase-money, not only for Milly's children, but for giving freedom to the old slave
woman herself. On May 29, she writes to her husband in Brunswick:--

"The mother of the Edmondson girls, now aged and feeble, is in the city. I did not actually
know when I wrote 'Uncle Tom' of a living example in which Christianity had reached its fullest
development under the crushing wrongs of slavery, but in this woman I see it. I never knew
before what I could feel till, with her sorrowful, patient eyes upon me, she told me her history
and begged my aid. The expression of her face as she spoke, and the depth of patient sorrow
in her eyes, was beyond anything I ever saw.

"'Well,' said I, when she had finished, 'set your heart at rest; you and your children shall
be redeemed. If I can't raise the money otherwise, I will pay it myself.' You should have seen
the wonderfully sweet, solemn look she gave me as she said, 'The Lord bless you, my child!'

"Well, I have received a sweet note from Jenny Lind, with her name and her husband's with which
to head my subscription list. They give a hundred dollars. Another hundred is subscribed by
Mr. Bowen in his wife's name, and I have put my own name down for an equal amount. A lady has
given me twenty-five dollars, and Mr. Storrs has pledged me fifty dollars. Milly and I are
to meet the ladies of Henry's and Dr. Cox's churches tomorrow, and she is to tell them her
story. I have written to Drs. Bacon and Button in New Haven to secure a similar meeting of
ladies there. I mean to have one in Boston, and another in Portland. It will do good to the
givers as well as to the receivers.

"But all this time I have been so longing to get your letter from New Haven, for I heard it
was there. It is not fame nor praise that contents me. I seem never to have needed love so
much as now. I long to hear you say how much you love me. Dear one, if this effort impedes
my journey home, and wastes some of my strength, you will not murmur. When I see this Christlike
soul standing so patiently bleeding, yet forgiving, I feel a sacred call to be the helper of
the helpless, and it is better that my own family do without me for a while longer than that
this mother lose all. I must redeem her.

"New Haven, June 2. My old woman's case progresses gloriously. I am to see the ladies of this
place tomorrow. Four hundred dollars were contributed by individuals in Brooklyn, and the ladies
who took subscription papers at the meeting will undoubtedly raise two hundred dollars more."

Before leaving New York, Mrs. Stowe gave Milly Edmondson her check for the entire sum necessary
to purchase her own freedom and that of her children, and sent her home rejoicing. That this
sum was made up to her by the generous contributions of those to whom she appealed is shown
by a note written to her husband and dated July, 1852, in which she says:--

"Had a very kind note from A. Lawrence inclosing a twenty-dollar gold- piece for the Edmondsons.
Isabella's ladies gave me twenty-five dollars, so you see our check is more than paid already."

Although during her visit in New York Mrs. Stowe made many new friends, and was overwhelmed
with congratulations and praise of her book, the most pleasing incident of this time seems
to have been an epistolatory interview with Jenny Lind (Goldschmidt). In writing of it to her
husband she says:--

"Well, we have heard Jenny Lind, and the affair was a bewildering dream of sweetness and beauty.
Her face and movements are full of poetry and feeling. She has the artless grace of a little
child, the poetic effect of a wood-nymph, is airy, light, and graceful.

"We had first-rate seats, and how do you think we got them? When Mr. Howard went early in the
morning for tickets, Mr. Goldschmidt told him it was impossible to get any good ones, as they
were all sold. Mr. Howard said he regretted that, on Mrs. Stowe's account, as she was very
desirous of hearing Jenny Lind. 'Mrs. Stowe!' exclaimed Mr. Goldschmidt, 'the author of "Uncle
Tom's Cabin"? Indeed, she shall have a seat whatever happens!'

"Thereupon he took his hat and went out, returning shortly with tickets for two of the best
seats in the house, inclosed in an envelope directed to me in his wife's handwriting. Mr. Howard
said he could have sold those tickets at any time during the day for ten dollars each.

"Today I sent a note of acknowledgment with a copy of my book. I am most happy to have seen
her, for she is a noble creature."

To this note the great singer wrote in answer:--

MY DEAR MADAM,--Allow me to express my sincere thanks for your very kind letter, which I was
very happy to receive. 

"eh! perche," said she, appear bitterly in eye.

"for ground that Cruelty. lorrequer shall be ne'er
cognize he has to ask that them," said out of boy, writing her peeper
with hands, and sobbing well. "well, who so, that is well, but i do cutely
sends the retentive."

Forgive me, my dear madam: it is a great liberty I take in thus addressing you, I know, but
I have so wished to find an opportunity to pour out my thankfulness in a few words to you that
I cannot help this intruding. I have the feeling about "Uncle Tom's Cabin" that great changes
will take place by and by, from the impression people receive out of it, and that the writer
of that book can fall asleep today or tomorrow with the bright, sweet conscience of having
been a strong means in the Creator's hand of operating essential good in one of the most important
questions for the welfare of our black brethren. God bless and protect you and yours, dear
madam, and certainly God's hand will remain with a blessing over your head.

Once more forgive my bad English and the liberty I have taken, and believe me to be, dear madam,

Yours most truly, JENNY GOLDSCHMIDT, née LIND.

In answer to Mrs. Stowe's appeal on behalf of the Edmonsons, Jenny Lind wrote:--

MY DEAR MRS. STOWE,--I have with great interest read your statement of the black family at
Washington. It is with pleasure also that I and my husband are placing our humble names on
the list you sent.

The time is short. I am very, very sorry that I shall not be able to see you. I must say farewell
to you in this way. Hoping that in the length of time you may live to witness the progression
of the good sake for which you so nobly have fought, my best wishes go with you. Yours in friendship,

JENNY GOLDSCHMIDT. 

"no, thank you, a more wills'wine; but i'll sing to pleasure;" and
more even the life, like something with voice of a quinsy, began,
"'i'd may mourn the hopes that rise me.'"

"that, sir, do you may here spare me was kindly a letter of your winter-clothes."
 I can tear away with a sudden pull
more easily than to linger there knowing that I am to leave at last. I shall never find people
whom I shall like better than those of Brunswick."

As Professor Stowe's engagements necessitated his spending much of the summer in Brunswick,
and also making a journey to Cincinnati, it devolved upon his wife to remain in Andover, and
superintend the preparation of the house they were to occupy. This was known as the old stone
workshop, on the west side of the Common, and it had a year or two before been fitted up by
Charles Munroe and Jonathan Edwards [Footnote: Students in the Seminary.] as the Seminary gymnasium.
Beneath Mrs. Stowe's watchful care and by the judicious expenditure of money, it was transformed
by the first of November into the charming abode which under the name of "The Cabin" became
noted as one of the pleasantest literary centres of the country. Here for many years were received,
and entertained in a modest way, many of the most distinguished people of this and other lands,
and here were planned innumerable philanthropic undertakings in which Mrs. Stowe and her scholarly
husband were the prime movers.

The summer spent in preparing this home was one of great pleasure as well as literary activity.
In July Mrs. Stowe writes to her husband: "I had no idea this place was so beautiful. Our family
circle is charming. All the young men are so gentlemanly and so agreeable, as well as Christian
in spirit. Mr. Dexter, his wife, and sister are delightful. Last evening a party of us went
to ride on horseback down to Pomp's Pond. What a beautiful place it is! There is everything
here that there is at Brunswick except the sea,--a great exception. Yesterday I was out all
the forenoon sketching elms. There is no end to the beauty of these trees. I shall fill my
book with them before I get through. We had a levee at Professor Park's last week,--quite a
brilliant affair. Today there is to be a fishing party to go to Salem beach and have a chowder.

"It seems almost too good to be true that we are going to have such a house in such a beautiful
place, and to live here among all these agreeable people, where everybody seems to love you
so much and to think so much of you. I am almost afraid to accept it, and should not, did I
not see the Hand that gives it all and know that it is both firm and true. He knows if it is
best for us, and His blessing addeth no sorrow therewith. I cannot describe to you the constant
undercurrent of love and joy and peace ever flowing through my soul. I am so happy --so blessed!"

The literary work of this summer was directed toward preparing articles on many subjects for
the "New York Independent" and the "National Era," as well as collecting material for future
books. That the "Pearl of Orr's Island," which afterward appeared as a serial in the "Independent,"
was already contemplated, is shown by a letter written July 29th, in which Mrs. Stowe says:
"What a lovely place Andover is! So many beautiful walks! Last evening a number of us climbed
Prospect Hill, and had a most charming walk. Since I came here we have taken up hymn-singing
to quite an extent, and while we were all up on the hill we sang 'When I can read my title
clear.' It went finely.

"I seem to have so much to fill my time, and yet there is my Maine story waiting. However,
I am composing it every day, only I greatly need living studies for the filling in of my sketches.
There is 'old Jonas,' my 'fish father,' a sturdy, independent fisherman farmer, who in his
youth sailed all over the world and made up his mind about everything. In his old age he attends
prayer-meetings and reads the 'Missionary Herald.' He also has plenty of money in an old brown
sea- chest. He is a great heart with an inflexible will and iron muscles. I must go to Orr's
Island and see him again. I am now writing an article for the 'Era' on Maine and its scenery,
which I think is even better than the 'Independent' letter. In it I took up Longfellow. Next
I shall write one on Hawthorne and his surroundings.

"To-day Mrs. Jewett sent out a most solemnly savage attack upon me from the 'Alabama Planter.'
Among other things it says: 'The plan for assaulting the best institutions in the world may
be made just as rational as it is by the wicked (perhaps unconsciously so) authoress of this
book. The woman who wrote it must be either a very bad or a very fanatical person. For her
own domestic peace we trust no enemy will ever penetrate into her household to pervert the
scenes he may find there with as little logic or kindness as she has used in her "Uncle Tom's
Cabin." There's for you! Can you wonder now that such a wicked woman should be gone from you
a full month instead of the week I intended? Ah, welladay!"

